VOLUME 49, ISSUE 54   MONDA Y , MA Y 9, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WOMEN IN THE 
LABORATORY
WOMEN MAKE UP HALF OF 
STEM MAJORS, BUT ARE NOT 
AS WELL REPRESENTED IN THE 
WORKFORCE. MEET UCSD’S 
FEMALE ROLE MODELS IN 
STEM, AND SEE THE FUTURE 
OF WOMEN IN SCIENCE AND 
TECHNOLOGY.
LACK  OF  DUE  PROCESS
TRACK AND  FIELDREMOV AL  BEFORE  INVESTIGA TION
Second  a t  ccaa  championshipOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 69 L 56TUESDAY  
H 69 L 56
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 57THURSDAY
H 72 L 58
FORECAST
VERBATIM
MY MOM’S JOURNEY TAUGHT 
ME TWO THINGS ABOUT 
LEARNING. ONE, LEARNING IS A 
CHOICE ... SECOND, LEARNING 
IS A LIFELONG PROCESS. MY 
MOM WAS IN HER MID-THIRTIES 
WHEN SHE EMBARKED ON HER 
SPIRITUAL QUEST. SHE TAUGHT 
ME THAT I CAN DECIDE TO 
CHANGE MY LIFE AT ANY TIME.”
- Makeba Jones
MAKEBA’S CORNER
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......3
ACCOUNTABILITY  ........... 4
BEHIND THE LECTURN  ....8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG/ GUARDIAN
The UC Board of Regents allowed 
William De La Pena of the Committee 
on Health Services to remain on the 
board despite violating the board’s 
conflict of interest rules, according to  a 
May 2nd report released the nonprofit 
journalism organization Propublica.
The report details a secret March 
2015 investigation led by outside 
investigator Keith Rohman of Public 
Interest Investigations, Inc.,  in which 
De La Pena tried to strike a financially 
beneficial deal between his Southern 
California eye clinics and UCLA that 
lasted from October 2013 through 
January 2014. 
Whistleblower complaints against 
De La Pena led UC Senior Vice 
President for External Relations 
Daniel M. Dooley to oversee an investigation under the UC system’s 
Policy on Reporting and Investigating 
Allegations of Suspected Improper 
Governmental Activity, known as the 
Whistleblower Policy. With the help 
of an outside investigator, Dooley 
— the chair of the Committee on 
Health Services at the time —  found 
that De La Pena disregarded UC 
Regent conflict of interest rules and 
that his behavior “clearly constitutes 
an improper governmental activity. ” 
Dooley then gave the report to UC 
President Janet Napolitano and then 
Regents Chairman Bruce D. V arner 
for possible action against De La Pena. 
However, the regents kept the findings 
from the public.
ProPublica obtained a copy of the 
report by contacting UC spokeswoman 
Dianne Klein in order to determine 
why the regents kept the report 
confidential. In an email to ProPublica, Klein replied, “The outcomes of 
whistleblower investigations are not 
routinely announced publicly. ”
In response to ProPublica’s 
investigation, De La Pena resigned from 
the Committee on Health Services in 
April 2015. Later, De La Pena wrote a 
resignation letter in which he remarked 
that he “has serious concerns about the 
representations contained in the report 
and the findings, ” which he planned to 
address “at a later time. ”
De La Pena wrote to Napolitano 
and Varner on May 10, 2015, in order 
to address his concerns. He refuted the 
investigation’s conclusions, saying that 
the chief strategy officer for UCLA 
“personally raised the opportunity of 
leasing space” to his eye clinics. He 
also noted that he consulted with UC 
General Counsel and Vice President UC President 
Denounces 
Academic 
Boycott VoteUC SYSTEM
Napolitano warned that the 
Anthropology Association’s 
boycott could pose a threat 
to academic freedom.
BY   K e v i n  Sa n t o s
The UC Office of the President 
released a statement on April 
19 denouncing the American 
Anthropological Association’s 
proposed resolution to boycott 
Israeli academic institutions. AAA 
will have until May 31 to vote 
on the resolution, which many 
members believe will play a role in 
discontinuing the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict. 
According to the letter, UC 
President Janet Napolitano and each 
of the UC chancellors requested that 
AAA reconsider its proposition since 
their boycott poses a possible threat 
to the educational establishment.
“The University of California 
believes that an academic boycott 
is an inappropriate response to a 
foreign policy issue and one that 
threatens academic freedom and 
sets a damaging precedent for 
academia, ” the letter stated. “We urge 
Association members to consider 
the boycott’s potentially harmful 
impacts and oppose this resolution. ”
AAA’s resolution indicated 
that Israeli institutions would not 
be featured in AAA marketing 
materials, would be banned from 
participating in events hosted by 
AAA, and would be prohibited from 
using AAA resources for their own 
research.
“Those institutions would 
not be able to be listed in 
AnthroGuide, advertise in AAA 
venues, or participate in the AAA 
Developmental Services Program, 
the Career Center or the Graduate 
School Fair,” the resolution 
specified. “In addition, the boycott 
precludes the granting permission 
to copy and reprint articles from 
AAA publications to journals 
and publications based at Israeli 
institutions. ”
The resolution also describes the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, detailing 
that Israel has continued to deny 
Palestinians basic privileges, in spite 
of international disapproval.
As stated by the AAA, “For 
decades, despite condemnation 
by the United Nations and other 
international bodies, the Israeli 
state has denied Palestinians – 
including scholars and students – 
their fundamental rights of freedom, 
equality, and self-determination 
through ethnic cleansing, 
colonization, discrimination, and 
military occupation. ”Art Gallery Reopens for 
Undergraduate Show
UCSD’s University Art Gallery reopened for a 
week-long undergraduate art show on May 5 
after administration closed it indefinitely last 
summer. The show, titled “Meeting at Square One, ” is 
free for anyone to attend and will end this Thursday 
at 3 p.m.
Audrey Maier, an art history major and the UAG’s 
co-director with Farshid Bazmandegan, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian that the gallery’s size and prestige 
is significant to student artists and their work. 
“There is no other space on campus where we 
could’ve held this, ” Maier said. “Being in a place this 
big with so much history — it opened in 1966, so this is 
going to be its 50th anniversary — is hugely important 
for a starting artist. ”
According to Maier, the show was organized, curated 
and installed entirely by undergraduate students from 
the visual arts department. She stated, however, that it 
was department chair Professor Jack Greenstein who 
convinced university officials to reopen the gallery for this specific exhibit. 
“For us to get into the UAG, props all go to 
Professor Greenstein, ” Maier told the Guardian. “He 
was the one who talked to the ‘higher-up people’ and 
convinced them that we were responsible enough to 
have this space and that it would be something good 
for the visual arts department in general. ”
Greenstein, who delivered the keynote speech at 
the show’s opening reception last Thursday in front of 
dozens of attendees, explained to the Guardian how the 
show can make a lasting impact on students, both as a 
memory and a catalyst for their careers. 
“It really is the culmination of the student 
experience,” Greenstein said. “It’s giving them 
something to remember the campus by and to start the 
next phase of their lives and also reason for us to come 
together and celebrate what we work so hard doing. ”
According to Greenstein, both division of arts and 
humanities Dean Cristina Della Coletta and Executive 
Vice Chancellor Suresh Subramani approved the use B y  jacky to      news editorCAMPUS
Board Member Keeps Position Despite Violation
UC Regent William De La Pena tried to a broker business deal between his eye clinic and UCLA.See ART, page 2
UC REGENTS
BY  m a r i o   e s p i n o z a
staff WRITER
See ISRAEL , page 3See REGENTS , page 3Photo by Christian Duarte / UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
ZOO PALS By Alex Lee
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. She looked at her mid-term, angry but 
understanding of the awful grade. Looking at her professor, 
she suddenly yelled “DRINK-OFF.”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editors
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebasof the gallery for this show and one 
for the graduating Master of Fine 
Arts students. In his proposal, he 
included the dates that the gallery 
would be used, which faculty 
members would be supervising 
the projects — in this case, it was 
visual arts professor Monique Van 
Genderen — how the show would 
be organized, and why using the 
UAG was necessary.
In his speech, Greenstein 
touched upon this, arguing that 
the space gives student artists the 
valuable opportunity to showcase 
their otherwise-isolated work to a 
large and public audience. 
“ Art, as in most scholarly 
activities and research activities, 
ends up being a pretty lonely endeavor; even though it lives 
on critique and discussion and a 
kind of interaction, the hard work 
is done alone, ” Greenstein stated. 
“It’s occasions like this that allow 
everyone who has worked hard by 
themselves to show the work and 
to show the reason they did the 
work, which is actually to show it to 
people, to get reactions and to enter 
the public discourse. That is done 
in classes in small when they are 
critiqued, and in a show like this, it’s 
done on a larger public scale. ”
He also explained to the audience 
that the holistic philosophy of 
UCSD’s visual arts department 
impacted the scope and diversity of 
the work displayed at the show.
“When our department was 
founded, it was thought it would 
not just be an art department or an art history department but a 
combination of both, ” Greenstein 
said in his speech. “It was felt that, 
in the department, there had to 
be constructive research dialogue 
among all the different factions of 
the art world to replicate the kind 
of greater world in miniature in an 
academic environment. A show like 
this really is the culmination of that. ”
Maier disclosed to the Guardian 
that all of the students who worked 
on the show were unpaid volunteers. 
This resulted in the show costing 
less than $2,000, most of which was 
spent on the food served at the 
opening reception and on the exhibit 
catalogs.
“Overall, it is pretty low-budget, 
especially for a big space like this, ” 
Maier said. “We’re trying to show 
that we can do a lot with a little, which hopefully goes a long way, and 
we can keep doing shows like this in 
the future. ”
The artists who currently have 
their works on display are Charity 
Algarme, Aleesha Anderson, Farshid 
Bazmandegan, Diana Benavidez, 
Dorothy Boyd, Yuanbo Du, Atra 
Givarkes, Alice Hsieh, Zhichun 
Huang, Neda Kerendian, Bethan 
Ku, Cathy (Chiao) Lin, Richard 
Lin, Joseph Maas, Jenna McCloskey, 
Jessica McPeak, Dmitri Mikhnev, 
Alice Musher, Ignatius Nguyen, 
Geoffrey Palomino and Viktor De La 
Fuente, Hsuan-mei Sang, Paul Sasso, 
Arpie Shekoyan and Emily Zheng.
Students can visit the show 
between 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.Student Volunteers Organized the Undergraduate Art Show on a Budget of  Less than $2,000
▶ ART, from page 1
jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee More
The AAA reasoned that because 
the United States provides so much 
support to Israel, an academic 
boycott is necessary to urge Israel 
into ceasing its exploitation of 
Palestinian land.
“Israel stands apart from other 
states that routinely engage in mass 
human rights abuses due to the 
level of support it receives from the 
United States, ” the AAA argued. “ An 
academic boycott has an important 
role to play in pressuring Israel to 
end these abuses. ”
The AAA explained that the 
organization intends to boycott 
academic institutions as a whole, 
and not individual students or 
anthropologists. The degree of the 
boycott is at the discretion of the anthropologists themselves.
“This boycott pertains to Israeli 
academic institutions only and not 
to individual scholars, ” the AAA 
said. “Individual anthropologists are 
free to determine whether and how 
they will apply the boycott in their 
own professional practice. ”
President of Tritons for Israel and 
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
Adina Wollner agreed with the UC 
administrators’ stance, adding that 
applying politics to the academic 
arena would create a contentious 
environment.
“I am proud that UCSD has 
always held a strong collaboration 
with Israeli academic institutes and 
continues to develop these ties, ” 
Wollner remarked. “I believe that 
political disputes should be solved in 
other arenas and academic boycotts simply create a divisive atmosphere 
on campus. ”
Revelle College senior Yahya 
Hafez argued that the boycott 
should include academic institutions 
because their activities can 
contribute to naturalizing Israel’s 
occupation.
“The call for academic boycott, 
among other things, insists that 
it is unacceptable for intellectuals 
and scholars to be complicit in 
naturalizing the violence of these 
institutions in the name of a 
politically non-neutral greater good, ” 
Hafez told the UCSD Guardian. 
“ Academic knowledge production 
should not serve as justification for 
ongoing colonialism. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONAAA: Boycott Directed at Israeli Academic Institutions, Not Scholars
De La Pena Blames UCLA Hospital Chief  For Violating UC Policy
Charles F . Robinson and told him that 
he “did not want to do anything that 
was wrong or inappropriate under 
UC’s policies. ”
De La Pena blamed former chief 
executive of the UCLA hospital 
system David Feinberg in his letter 
as the individual responsible for the 
whistleblower complaint. He also 
wrote that Feinberg had violated 
UC policy by negotiating a medical 
deal in September 2014 without the 
regents’ consent.
“Dr. Feinberg was found in fact 
to have violated regent policies by 
signing the UCLA Anthem transaction 
without authorization, ” De La Pena 
wrote. “This further establishes that 
my criticism of Dr. Feinberg was 
entirely justified and that his complaint of retaliation was simply a way of 
‘getting even’ with me.”
Dooley’s report also shared 
concerns raised over De La Pena’s 
repeated requests for Feinberg to find 
a way to purchase his clinics without 
infringing on UC policy. Doheny Eye 
Institute, a research and treatment 
center, was considered to be a buyer 
for De La Pena’s clinics. At the time, the 
institute was negotiating with UCLA 
in order to become officially affiliated 
with the university. 
In the report, however, Dooley 
does not explicitly conclude that De La 
Pena tried to sell his clinics.
“I find that Regent De La Pena 
continued to engage in discussions 
regarding the Doheny deal after 
Regent De La Pena had been recused 
from participating in the matter, ” he wrote. “I also find that Regent De La 
Pena continued to pursue alternative 
scenarios by which Regent De La 
Pena’s clinics could be turned over to 
UCLA, up to the time of the January 
2014 regents meeting. ”
Two weeks ago, the regents released 
a letter by V arner to Napolitano from 
June 2015 in which he agreed with De 
La Pena’s declarations. As of now, De 
La Pena remains a voting member on 
the regents board until his term expires 
in 2018.
The UCSD Guardian contacted 
both UC Office of the President 
Media Specialist Kate Moser and 
Dooley, but neither were able to 
comment by press time.▶ REGENTS,  from page 1▶ ISRAEL,  from page 1
Kevin Santos   kksantos@ucsd.edu
Mario  Espinoza   mae001@ucsd.eduLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Sunday,  May 1
5:18 p.m. Excessive Alcohol 
Subject requested friend to call 
paramedics, due to not feeling well 
from being under the influence of 
drug and alcohol.  Transported to 
hospital.
10:08 p.m. Information
Unknown male subject was looking 
at reporting party and continued 
smiling, RP felt uncomfortable and 
left area. Information only.
11:55 p.m. Medical Aid
Adult male fell and hit his head, 
no medical aid or officer response 
wanted, transported self to hospital.  
Information only.
Monday, May 2
4:47 a.m. Disturbance
Reporting party’s ex refusing to 
leave or return RP’s property. 
Service provided.
1:06 p.m. Citizen Contact
Male student chronically clogging 
toilet.  Field interview.
4:47 p.m. Citizen Contact
Biological parent attempting to 
contact reporting party against 
their wishes. Service provided.
7:58 p.m. Citizen Contact
Report of student not enrolled in 
class, taking exam.  Report taken.
Tuesday, May 3
4/22/2016 to 5/3/2016 Grand Theft
Report of stolen research 
equipment, loss $20,000.00. Report 
taken.
10:56 p.m. Information
Report of motorist driving wrong 
direction. Information only.
6:44 p.m. Shoplifting
Student selected, concealed and failed to pay for text book, loss 
did not exceed $99.99.  Referred to 
student conduct.
1:00 p.m. Alcohol contact
Resident Advisors contacted suite 
during Sun God duty, due to music 
and talking coming from suite, 
one resident found passed out on 
couch with trash bag next to face, 
shot glasses and bottle of alcohol 
found in common area.  Referred to 
student conduct.
Wednesday, May 4
1:19 p.m. Invade privacy
Report of male suspect 
photographing victim using 
bathroom.  Closed by citation, adult.
3:39 p.m. Trespass
Chronic problem with female 
transient coming into presentations 
and taking food. Checks OK.
Thursday, May 5
1:45 a.m. Suspicious Person
Per RSO, possible transient lodging 
inside laundry building bathroom. 
Stay away order issued.
1:43 p.m. Medical Aid
Reporting party’s roommate 
vomiting for over 2 hours. 
Transported to hospital.
4:54 p.m. Disturbance
Group of bicyclist doing tricks on 
bikes, smoking and one subject 
urinated by college admin building. 
Gone on arrival.
— PROMITA NANDY
CONTRIBUTING WRITER4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
What My 
Mom Taught 
Me About 
Learning
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
With the recent suspension 
of UC Davis Chancellor Linda 
Katehi — and the questionable 
administrative actions leading up to 
it — the University of California’s 
governing UC Board of Regents 
has gained an increasingly negative 
public image. In response, state 
legislators have also begun fighting 
for increased control over the 
UC governing body. In doing so, 
the state seems to be acting out 
of the best interest of students; 
however, there are potential 
downfalls to what it proposes. In 
order for greater administrative 
accountability, there must be 
oversight and legislation from 
the state in addition to greater 
transparency within administration.
In early March, it was revealed 
by the Sacramento Bee that Katehi 
spent at least $170,000 to obscure 
internet results in an attempt to 
cover up an incident in 2011, when 
police pepper sprayed student 
protesters. According to the Los 
Angeles Times, this incident 
— along with her concurrently 
taking a position at a for-profit 
university and allegedly misusing 
student funds — has prompted 
administrative leave for Katehi. 
Altogether, her actions have 
harmed UC Davis’ publicity and reputation, and it is hard to believe 
that such violations, given their 
severity and their volume, were not 
caught earlier.
But even the single issue of 
administrators taking on additional 
roles is not limited to UC Davis. 
The San Diego Reader reports 
that UCSD’s chancellor, Pradeep 
Khosla, recently took a job at the 
surveillance company Avigilon 
Corporation in Vancouver. Holding 
additional positions is both 
detrimental to how administrators 
carry out their job and discouraged 
by the regents’ code of conduct; 
members who defy this should 
indeed be held accountable by the 
regents themselves. If administrators 
are to take such actions, they need 
to do so transparently so that the 
public can be aware and voice any 
concerns that arise. 
State legislators, frustrated by their lack of power over the regents, 
have recently been trying to address 
this by gaining more control. 
According to the Los Angeles 
Times, Senator Ricardo Lara has 
been trying to shorten the term 
of the regents by limiting both the 
number of terms that they can serve 
and requiring Senate approval every 
four years as opposed to the current 
unlimited amount of 12-year terms. 
Initially it was planned this way so 
that the term would outlast that of 
the regents’ appointing governor 
and therefore keep them free from 
political pressure.
While there is no evidence that 
giving lawmakers more power 
over the regents would foster 
greater accountability — in the 
case of the pepper spraying at UC 
Davis, a single individual rather 
than the regents was responsible 
for controversy — this change is necessary. It’s true that, if given 
too much control, the state may 
potentially end up micromanaging 
education. It’s also true that 
educators, not politicians, should be 
making decisions. But as we have 
seen, administrators in education 
are not always held accountable.
Legislation like the one proposed 
to shorten the term of the regents 
will help to prevent violations 
like those allegedly committed by 
Katehi, which took place over her 
many years of being chancellor. 
To more directly address the 
problem of corruption within the 
UC administration, an increased 
transparency of the regents’ actions 
is necessary. Without relying on 
state involvement, this could be 
achieved through adding more 
student regents to the board. 
Although not an ultimate solution, 
this would create a stronger channel 
through which other student 
voices may be communicated and 
would pressure administrators to 
make decisions that align with 
student needs. The state needs to 
be responsible for monitoring the 
regents, but it doesn’t mean that it 
has to take full control.Supplementary Legal Involvement by State Needed to Hold UC Regents AccountableNorway’s Barnevernet, established in 1992 to protect children 
from abusive families, has come under intense scrutiny in recent years 
for its severe lack of transparency and due process in how officials 
determine whether to remove children from their homes. The most 
recent example of  breach in justice is the Bodnariu family case, who 
had their five children taken away for alleged abuse in November 2015. 
Although the youngest of the children was returned to the parents 
last month, the decisions made throughout the entire process were 
done with a startling lack of evidence and a lack of proper due process. 
This is fundamentally unfair and against the principles of a just and 
balanced legal system.
According to BBC, a group of 170 psychologists, lawyers and 
social workers wrote an open letter to Solveig Horne, condemning the 
Barnevernet as being “dysfunctional” and accusing it of making “far-
reaching errors of judgment with serious consequences. ” While the 
organization fulfilled its duties by taking a closer look at the Bodnarius’ 
parenting style — arguably to ensure that children’s rights, which are 
heavily protected in Norway — it is evident that at least some of their 
claims are questionable. Indeed, between 2008 and 2013 there was a 
spike in the number of children being placed in emergency care, going 
from approximately 1,000 a year to 1,600, with the most commonly 
cited reason being a “lack of parenting skills. ” Another such example 
of cultural clashes was the Indian Bhattacharya family, who had their 
children taken away in 2011, according to New Delhi TV . Court 
documents later revealed that the Barnevernet officials were concerned for the children’s safety in part because “the arranged marriage 
between the mother and father which, while common in India, is not 
largely understood in Norway. ”  Furthermore, it is important to note 
that a Norwegian journalist, cited by BBC, found that an immigrant 
mother is four times as likely to have her children taken away than any 
other other children. If Barnevernet officials choose to cite cultural 
differences as being problematic to a child’s upbringing, they must 
explain how they negatively impact the child, otherwise they should 
not be in such a powerful position to split families. Given that “lacking 
parenting skills” is highly subjective, it’s worrying that officials are 
willing to take such an extreme step on the basis of an ambiguous 
term that says nothing about the context in which an allegation is 
made. There also appears to be a disconnect within the Norwegian 
government itself, as the Barnevernet will act on its own and disregard 
the findings, or lack thereof, of other agencies, such as its own police 
force. Over five years ago, the Barnevernet removed two children from 
a Czech family because one of the kids claimed their father “groped 
inside their pajamas” according to Vice News. Police forces never 
pressed charges against the father, but the children still have not been 
returned to their parents and one of the boys was recently put up for 
adoption. A comment by a child needs to be addressed, but as the 
National Child Protection Training Center in the U.S. points out, the 
context of a child’s statement needs to be examined before any action 
is taken.
Barnevernet officials are often given wide authority to determine 
See DUE PROCESS, page 5In foregoing due process, the removal of  the 
Bodnariu children — whose parents were alleged 
to be abusive by the Norwegian department for 
child services — is the most recent in a series of  
separations targeting immigrant families.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA   CARLSONMAKEBA JONES
m3jones@ucsd.eduMakeba's   
CORNER
When I was 6 years old, my mom 
embarked on a spiritual quest. This 
period confused me because she grew 
up Catholic and I didn’t understand 
what she was searching for. Thinking 
back, I shouldn’t have been surprised. 
My mom defied her generation by 
leaving her traditional Italian Catholic 
home to be with my dad, a black man 
who had an infectious free spirit. Now, 
I see that my mom was searching for 
her identity beyond the influence of 
her upbringing. 
I remember being dragged 
reluctantly to different churches. One 
was Afrocentric (an African-centered 
philosophy) where the members 
wore beautiful and brightly colored 
dashikis. Another church was more 
Christian with neat rows of dark 
wooden pews lined with Bibles. It was 
very serene. I also remember a “New 
Age” church decorated with soft, 
white flowing linens that served as 
curtain dividers between small rooms 
filled with the most delicious smells of 
incense and candles. 
I don’t think my mom found what 
she was looking for because we didn’t 
go to church after that period. Y et, this 
was a profound childhood experience 
for me. The most important lesson 
that I learned from my mom during 
this time was: Sometimes in life the 
end result is not as significant as the 
journey one experiences along the 
way. My mom’s journey taught me 
two lessons about learning. One, 
learning is a choice. I can decide to 
change myself by growing in any 
way that I choose. My mom decided 
that she needed to grow spiritually 
in a way that was different from her 
upbringing. Second, learning is a 
lifelong process. My mom was in her 
mid-thirties when she embarked on 
her spiritual quest. She taught me that 
I can decide to change my life at any 
time.
As an education professor, I 
encounter many UCSD students who, 
in my mind, are held hostage by a 
hyperfocus on grades and figuring 
out what the professor wants for an A 
grade. I see a lot of students who are 
in such a hurry! Their goal is to get to 
the end of something — the end of a 
class, a quarter, or college altogether. 
Some of this has to do with the system 
itself; university admissions policies 
typically privilege grades and SAT 
scores above anything else. I also 
understand that college students have 
not created the system in which they 
are forced to participate in. However, 
as my mom taught me, we can control 
what matters to us and the direction 
our own journey takes. 
I genuinely worry that UCSD 
students are in such a hurry to “get 
it over with” that they miss out on 
opportunities to grow in ways that 
they can’t imagine are possible for 
themselves. I worry that college 
students are letting a flawed system 
obsessed with grades and test scores 
rob them of using their time in 
college to create their own journey. 
What I worry about the most is that 
in 10 years, UCSD graduates will look 
back and regret that they didn’t use 
this time to search for all that matters 
to them and, instead, they’ll realize 
that what they found didn’t really 
matter as much as they thought. If 
this does happen, I hope students will 
keep in mind what my mom taught 
me — it’s never too late to embark on 
your own quest.To  m o re  d i re c t l y  a dd re s s  t h e  p r o bl e m  o f  
corruption within the UC administration, 
an increased transparency of  the regents’ 
actions is necessary. 
NUNNAP A T  RA T ANA V ANH NRATANAV@UCSD.EDUBY TINA BUTOIU & NATE WALKER // 
STAFF WRITER & EDITORIAL ASSISTANTNOR W A Y'S  
BARNEVERNET 
SYS T E M   
DUE  FOR  
FA I R   
PROCESS OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
whether suspected abuse qualifies 
for sanctions, usually with little 
oversight or right to appeal. For the 
Bodnariu family, a school principal 
suspected the parents were spanking 
their children and subsequently 
reported the family, according to Vice. 
Although the Bodnariu parents admits 
to spanking their children (which 
is illegal under Norwegian law), 
Barnevernet officials did not find any 
physical evidence, marks or injuries, 
on the children, suggesting that any 
form of corporal punishment was not 
nearly enough to cause any damage. 
While corporal punishment is still a 
matter of debate, a single suspicion 
by a single school administrator should not justify such an extreme 
removal of the children from the 
family. Furthermore, the medical 
examinations were done after the 
children were indefinitely removed 
from the custody of their parents, 
not beforehand.This suggests that the 
officials were willing to split the family 
and find justification for doing so after 
the fact, which illustrates a concerning 
lack of due process. Barnevernet 
officials should not assume guilty until 
proven innocent, and the burden of 
proof for removing children from a 
family should be transparent and 
indisputable, which was not the 
case here.
Removing children from the 
care of their parents without 
any prior notice or investigation demonstrates an absence of due 
process. Furthemore, the Bodnariu 
family is unable to determine the 
exact details (outside of the most 
basic facts) of why their children 
were removed since Barnevernet 
documents and courts are private and 
not revealed to anyone outside the 
agency. While Barnevernet claims 
this is to protect the privacy of the 
children, this also prevents anyone 
else from reviewing the details for 
themselves. Barnevernet’s power, 
therefore, is unchecked and should 
be more transparent and fair so 
that more families do not get 
unnecessarily torn apart.
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
10am–12pm9:30am–
2:30pm9:30am–
2:30pm10am–12pm 10am–12pmSPRING HOURS OF OPERATION:Given Lack of  Due Process in Family Separations, Reforming Barnevernet Is Necessary
▶ DUE PROCESS from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
TINA BUTOIU TBUTOIU@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
There are still women who, despite facing a male-dominated workforce, have 
succeeded and become highly acclaimed in their fields. One such woman is Miriam 
Kastner, a highly celebrated professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Born 
in Czechoslovakia, she got her master’s degree at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem 
before attending Harvard in the early ‘70s, where she obtained her Ph.D. A few years 
later she was offered a teaching position at Scripps. To this day, she continues to teach 
and carry out her research in marine geochemistry. Kastner is also 81 years old, and 
vividly remembers a time when the female presence in the STEM field was virtually 
nonexistent. Her sense of humor is accompanied by a no-nonsense attitude and a 
confidence that she believes got her to where she is today. When asked how she 
flourished in a field dominated by men, her answer was simple. 
“I never feared anybody. I don’t see why I have to, ” Kastner said.
When asked if she believes there is an issue with women’s representation in the 
STEM field, she could hardly wait for the end of the question before nodding her 
head and saying, “Y es, a big problem. ” She went on to discuss her perspective on 
the matter.
“I can go to a meeting and see a young woman discussing something and 
nobody pays attention to her. Five minutes later a man says the same thing and 
suddenly it’s an important point, ” Kastner recalled. 
She believes that discrimination against women is, in a sense, hardwired in the 
brains of some men and that sexism is a deeply structural issue. Although she’s 
observed female representation as moving in a positive direction, she maintains 
that there is a long way to go. Seventy-seven cents to every man’s dollar. It’s a statistic often thrown around when 
discussing the oppression of women in the United States, but less often understood. 
The number does not come from comparing one male engineer’s salary to that 
of a female engineer’s. Instead, 77 cents to every one male-earned dollar is a statistic that 
compares the total income generated by men in the U.S. to the total income generated 
by American women. It’s a statistic that reveals that, on average, women are employed 
in lower-paying careers than men are. It’s not that female engineers are being paid 
23 percent less than their male counterparts. It’s that there aren’t as many female 
engineers as male engineers to begin with; considering that, according to Payscale.
com, the top 14 paying majors in the U.S. are in science, technology, engineering and 
math, this is a huge missed opportunity.
This is where STEM comes in. It’s a little acronym that represents a big conversation 
in today’s society. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, in 2011, women held 
nearly half the jobs in the U.S. economy, but filled less than a quarter of the country’s 
STEM-related positions. Although women today have far more opportunities 
in academia than in the past, there are still far more men occupying STEM-
related jobs than women. According to a 2013 study compiled by the National 
Girls Collaborative Project, while women are earning 50 percent of bachelor’s 
degrees in science and engineering, only 27 percent of the science and 
engineering workforce is made up of women. With nearly half of science and 
engineering bachelor’s degrees going to women, one would expect women to 
be equally represented in the workforce, making these statistics surprising.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A Laboratory for Empowerment
Though women earn 50 percent of degrees in science and engineering, they only represent 27 percent of the workforce in those fields. The UCSD 
Guardian investigates women’s representation in STEM at UCSD, as well as the steps the university is taking to increase their presence. 
Illustrations by Alex LiangWritten by Tia Ikemoto // Staff Writer
and Harrison Lee // Contributing WriterFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now readyLearn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856
“Men just do not trust women for some reason, ” Kastner explained. “It’s a cultural thing 
and it’s very difficult to eradicate. ” Along with her critique of the male cultural perspective, 
Kastner also identifies a problem in female culture. The main issue which prevents 
women from reaching their full potential in STEM is a lack of confidence. 
“Women are coming with a lot of baggage. They are not as confident as 
men ...You see where it comes from when you turn on the TV , and also from 
their parents and other places. ”
Although it’s an uphill battle, Kastner believes that the only way for 
women to overcome sexism is to be more assertive and less concerned 
with how people view them; women simply need to “do their job and 
ignore what people say. ” 
Kastner can sense this confidence, and she’s observed confident women succeed 
over the years.
“When I see students the first year, I can tell you exactly which women are going 
to go far … they’re self-confident, ” says Kastner. 
At UCSD, there are many programs meant to give women in STEM majors the self-
confidence that Kastner stresses is so important to succeed in a male-dominated field. 
Organizations such as the Society of Women Engineers, Graduate Women in Science 
and Engineering (GradWise), and the social sorority for engineering and science majors, 
Phi Sigma Rho, are some of the groups that offer support for female STEM students. They 
provide young women with career-development workshops, advice panels led by female 
professors or simply a social outlet to connect with fellow women in STEM.
In addition to various student groups on campus, the university itself has initiated 
programs to engage more young women in science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics. Last year, for example, UCSD partnered up with Sally Ride Science, a 
program inspired by the first American female astronaut Sally Ride to encourage K-12 
girls to embrace higher education in STEM fields. According to UC San Diego News 
“I can go to a meeting and see a young 
woman discussing something and nobody 
pays attention to her. Five minutes later a 
man says the same thing and suddenly 
it’s an important point.”
-Miriam Kastner 
▶ See WOMEN IN STEM,  page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Al vin  chan   Behind the  LecternAnalyzing the Zombie ApocalypseCenter, Sally Ride Science at UCSD will specifically target “professional development for 
teachers; K-12 STEM + Arts, also known as STEAM, education including courses, lectures 
and events; and online programming via UCTV . ” The program’s aim is to instill the astronaut’s 
passion for science and learning in young women, raising them to love STEM and embrace its 
challenges.
Bucking the nationwide trend, many women in STEM are already thriving at UCSD, partly 
due to its unique status as a research powerhouse. One such student is bioengineering major, 
Muir College junior Hayley Chong. When asked about her experiences as a woman in STEM, 
she said that UCSD has been a very supportive environment. 
“I went to UC Berkeley to present for my HIV project team, and afterwards, I got to talk to 
some people who are influential in the field of global health, ” she told the UCSD Guardian, “I 
got a lot of comments like ‘Oh, it’s so wonderful to see a woman leading a project like this!’ It took me by surprise because it is so normal in our university to be a woman in STEM, but in the 
real working world that’s still not the case. ” She went on to explain that, though she appreciates 
being recognized for her work, she doesn’t personally feel disadvantaged by being a woman in 
the field of bioengineering.
Chong represents the new generation of women in STEM made possible by trailblazers like 
Kastner, who faced blatant sexism and gender stereotyping when she entered the science field 
just a few decades ago. Kastner's immense efforts in science academia helped pave the way for 
women at UCSD, proving that one’s talent and intelligence is not defined by gender. It is because 
of her resilience in the face of discrimination that young women like Chong do not feel that their 
gender holds them back from succeeding in STEM today.
Although we still have much room to grow, UCSD’s position as a top STEM school has 
helped propel women interested in STEM forward. With the help of role models like Ride and 
our own Kastner, the discourse about women in STEM is slowly changing to reflect a society 
that judges people on the quality of their skills rather than their gender. 
Tia  Ikemoto   
Harrison  Lee   ▶ WOMEN IN STEM,  from page 7
Zombie brain expert. Data evangelist for Uber. And, according to his personal website, 
an “annoying smartass. ”
Bradley Voytek, assistant professor of computational science and neuroscience 
at UCSD, has spoken in places such as TEDx and Sci Foo. His research has appeared in 
publications such as The New York Times, Forbes and Washington Post. 
“Oh wow, I’ve got tons of crap to say about science, data science and whatever else, though 
I’m not sure it’s worth listening to, ” an enthusiastic Voytek told the UCSD Guardian. “I mean, 
my life is an n of one, so it’s all anecdotal, right? Nothing about me, my experience, or my life 
is in any realistic way generalizable to anyone else. ”
In 2013 Voytek started working as a data scientist for Uber. While working there, one 
thing that piqued his interest was demand prediction — figuring out how to place cars where 
people will want them and minimizing pick-up times. However, his most memorable moment 
occurred when he interviewed for the job.
“When I interviewed for the position I was asked to go up to the whiteboard and do some 
coding/data/theory challenges, ” Voytek said. “I refused. Instead I told them, ‘you’re hiring me 
to uncover interesting insights using your data; instead of this nonsense why don’t you give 
me some of your data to play with, and if I haven’t done something cool by the end of the day, 
we’ll go our separate ways. ’”
He got the job, and worked there in 2013. In addition, Voytek studied as a postdoctoral 
fellow from September 2011 to February 2014. After this, he transitioned to a position as an 
assistant professor at UCSD , starting in March of that year. Currently he is the director of the 
Cognitive and Neural Dynamics Laboratory.
In addition to being a researcher, Voytek is teaching Introduction to Data Science this 
quarter, a course in the cognitive science department that explains ideas such as data mining, 
machine learning and graph theory. The class has over 200 students, a sharp increase from 22 during Fall Quarter 2014. Voytek believes this is because data science stands out from 
traditional computer science.
“Data science, as a job, combines all the most fun, creative parts of math, science and 
computer engineering/programming, ” he said. “[In the 1960s and ‘70s], computer science was 
new and exciting, with a lot of opportunities to blaze new vistas of business, technology and 
science. Outside of academia and major research-oriented businesses such as Facebook and 
Google, modern computer science, to many, is ‘programming. ’ It’s a strong, well-paying, good 
job, but it can lack the excitement of exploration, discovery and play that got a lot of people 
into the field in the first place.
Apart from academia, Voytek loves to do research on zombies. A current advisor for the 
Zombie Research Society, he says to not worry about the topic of zombies, as places such as 
CDC use the topic of zombies to get the word out about food storage and planning evacuation 
routes in case of emergencies. 
“OK, let me get this out of the way: No, you should not be worried, ” Voytek said. No, 
zombies cannot be real. That said, thinking about the zombie apocalypse can be helpful. 
For example, the CDC uses the zombie apocalypse as a way to get the word out about 
disaster preparedness, and it was wildly successful. So in that sense, being ‘serious’ about it is 
worthwhile. ”
Voytek wants students to feel confident enough to reach out to their professors and not be 
scared to ask for help, because he believes that UCSD is a top research university.   
“I know that students have this impression that us professors put research first and 
teaching a distant second, but that’s not absolutely the case for the vast majority of us, ” he 
said. “Reach out to us, come to our office hours, ask us about our research, ask about research 
opportunities and internships. Put yourself out there and try something new, because once 
you leave college, you most likely won’t have the same opportunities again. ”CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ARTPOWER PRESENTS  ALICIA OLATUJA
THE LOFT, PC EASTTHU, MAY 12  • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 9 - MAY 152016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 5.11 TUE 5.10
11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
1pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
June us in learning new tips for financial success both 
in and out of college from the Financial Aid and 
Scholarships Office. Be prepared to have fun while 
gaining skills to help your financial future! 5/11: How 
to Get Out from Under Your Student Loan Debt, 5/18: 
How to Understand Your Paycheck, Where Does Your 
Money Go?, 5/25: The Big Q&A with a Panel of Experts
1pm
MAXIMIZING LEADERSHIP- BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST, LVL 2
**Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program 
to attend. Learn to maximize your own leadership skill 
set in order to increase the contribution of your team 
members and build a more cohesive, collaborative 
environment. This workshop will help you to identify 
your strengths, reflect on your leadership 
opportunities, and create an action plan that will make 
you a sought after leader! Presented by Matthew 
Garcia, Graduate Assistant, CSI - Communication & 
Leadership
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career goals.
3pm
THE REAL WORLD CAREER SERIES: ACING AN 
INTERVIEW- CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
We will discuss a typical interview process, how to 
"Dress to Impress", the "Do's" and "Don'ts" in your 
interview responses, and how to properly research and 
prepare for interviews.
6:30pm
INTERNATIONAL IDOL: CULTURAL TALENT SHOW 
W/ MIXER- THE GREAT HALL - I HOUSE
Come join the Outreach Coordinators and I-House on 
May 11, 6:30-8:00pm at the Great Hall for a cultural 
talent show and an international mixer! Let's all get 
together for this fun night of awesome performances, 
cultural exchange and mingling with new people and 
free food! Contact Yang Liu at 
warrenoutreach@ucsd.edu if you have any questions!
7pm
KALLISTI PRESENTS NOON AT DUSK- 
EXPERIMENTAL THEATER, CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
The kallisti ensemble, created by UC San Diego 
Professor of Music Susan Narucki, will present the 
world premiere of Noon at Dusk, a chamber opera 
listed among the San Diego Union Tribune's top 
classical events of this spring. With music by UC San 
Diego graduate student Stephen Lewis and a libretto 
by Yi Hong Sim, Noon at Dusk explores the difficulties 
many young couples face when juggling career 
aspirations and love.
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS DAKHABRAKHA- PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Reflecting fundamental elements of sound and soul, 
Ukrainian ethno chaos band DakhaBrakha creates a 
world of unexpected new music. DakhaBrakha was 
created in 2004 and given the name that means 
give/take in the old Ukrainian language.FRI5.13
6:30pm
DIGITAL FILM FESTIVAL XIII- PRICE CENTER 
THEATER 
Have you made your own film or been part of the 
team? Why not submit to VPC's Digital Film Festival by 
May 6th and get your awesome work seen by some 
award-winning judges! Check out our Facebook event 
and see if you or anyone you know might be 
interested. All UCSD students are welcome to submit 
and/ or attend the screening (May 13th at UCSD Price 
Center Theater)- even if you're not a filmmaker! Can't 
wait to see you all there! Oh- and free food :'D!
8pm
SALES W/ INSPIRED AND THE SLEEP- THE LOFT, 
PC EAST
SALES is the collaboration between Orlando, FL mega 
buddies Lauren Morgan (guitar/vocals) and Jordan 
Shih (guitar/programming). Their sound has been 
described as indie rock or pop, depending on who you 
are talking to. They self-released their eponymous 
debut EP on September 22, 2014, and their singles 
("chinese new year", "getting it on", "renee", "vow") 
have gained the attention of The Guardian, 
Stereogum, Bandcamp Weekly, Hype Machine + BBC 
6, CMJ, and Gorilla vs. Bear, amongst others. 10am
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA STRETCH - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come after your workout for a deep stretch class. 
Using props like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls 
this class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body.
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
4:30pm
UAS 2016 ACCOUNTING CONFERENCE - 
THEATRE AND EAST BALLROOM, PRICE 
CENTER
Join UAS for its 6th Annual Accounting Conference 
on Tuesday, May 10th from 4:30pm to 8:00pm at PC 
Theater and East Ball Room! The purpose of this 
event is to provide students with insight into the 
upcoming Fall Recruitment Season and an 
opportunity to network with professionals and 
recruiters ahead of time! Start networking early and 
leave a good impression on recruiters will definitely 
give you an edge during the fall recruiting process!
5pm
INTERVIEW 101- GREEN TABLE ROOM, PC 
WEST, LVL 2
**Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program 
to attend. This workshop will provide a 
comprehensive framework detailing an effective 
in-person, group, and phone interview and provide 
career search tips, ranging from the job hunt to what 
actions you should take following your interview. 
Presented by Tracy Ta, Peer Educator, CSI - 
Communication & Leadership
6pm
BOULDERDASH - OUTBACK CLIMBING 
CENTER- CANYONVIEW 
Climbers test your skills on climbing routes set up 
for the competition. Prizes will be awarded to top 
finishers. All abilities are welcome and all climbers 
will find a challenge for their level. MON 5.09
2pm
HELLO! HOLA! BONJOUR!- BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST, LVL 2
**Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program to 
attend. Does speaking another language make you a 
member of another culture and advance your 
intercultural communication skills? What is it about 
intercultural communication that makes it challenging? 
This workshop will explore some of the cultural 
examples to help you understand differences around the 
world and further discuss ways to communicate 
positively with others. Presented by Hilary Wu, Peer 
Educator, CSI - Communication & Leadership
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: CHAI SPICE PUMPKIN 
SEED ALMOND MUESLI- THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come join us as we make Pumpkin Bites hosted by the 
Christine McNamara, the Student Health Services 
Registered Dietitian) and get FREE samples! Materials 
and ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served
5pm
SOCIAL INNOVATION: FOR BENEFIT 
CORPORATIONS SEMINAR- THE FORUM, PRICE 
CENTER EAST, LVL 4
Want to make a difference in the world? For-Benefit 
organizations integrate social and environmental aims 
with business approaches. The San Diego region is 
well-represented in this expanding business segment as 
more people formalize their interest in social innovation 
and create corporations that aim for the social good and 
improvement of overall quality of life. Join us to learn 
about for-benefit corporations when we host a panel of 
leaders from Game Changers 500, MediMeals, Change 
Heroes, and The Nicholas Conor Institute.
RSVP at https://ucsandiegosocialinnovation4forbenefit 
.eventbrite.com Light refreshments will be provided.
 
THU 5.12
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance. Workshop led by: 
Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES- THE ZONE 
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE- CUZCO LOUNGE- 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
EARN YOUR PASSPORT & "TRAVEL" to a different 
region every week! Learn about life and culture from 
current students who have lived and studied in various 
regions of the world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food 
from the highlighted region each week! ALL 
STUDENTS WELCOME! FREE FOOD!
5pm
BECOMING A MIND JEDI COLLEGE SUCCESS & 
MENTAL HEALTH- COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Become a mind jedi by attending this stress 
management workshop presented by Dr. Briana Boyd 
(Social Justice revolutionary and former UCSD CAPS 
psychologist) to learn LIFE CHANGING skills to manage 
stress, anxiety, and even the blues. You will also learn 
critical tools to improve your relationship with 
yourself, with your allies, and your community. Fortify 
your cognitive resources to battle on for social change 
against The Empire! This program is part of the Life 
Skills Series. 
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Chocolate coffee
 6 Pay figure
 10 Cartoonist Addams
 14 Wielded
 15 Aphrodite’s boy
 16 Strip of a lattice
 17 Fish farms
 19 Blues great James
 20 Doctrines
 21 Glossy fabric
 22 Off the boat
 25 Three consecutive goals
 27 Hot spring
 28 Ambulance grp.
 30 Nearby things
 31 Recent walkers
 33 Truly!
 35 Full of worthless stuff
 38 Golfer Mediate
 40 A-Team guy
 42 Pianist Blake
 43 In heaven
 45 Tempe sch.
 47 Chinawood oil
 48 Fund a fellowship
 50 Grad. degree
 52 Wornout piece of cloth
 53 Carolina cape
 56 Martina of tennis
 58 Pixielike
 59 Caspian sturgeon
 61 Settlement
 62 Female pharaoh
 66 750 in letters
 67 Cinema pooch
 68 TV journalist Frank
 69 On the Aegean
 70 Fired off
 71 Hebrew letterDown
 1 Chocolate coffee
 6 Pay figure
 10 Cartoonist Addams
 14 Wielded
 15 Aphrodite’s boy
 16 Strip of a lattice
 17 Fish farms
 19 Blues great James
 20 Doctrines
 21 Glossy fabric
 22 Off the boat
 25 Three consecutive goals
 27 Hot spring
 28 Ambulance grp.
 30 Nearby things
 31 Recent walkers
 33 Truly!
 35 Full of worthless stuff
 38 Golfer Mediate
 40 A-Team guy
 42 Pianist Blake
 43 In heaven
 45 Tempe sch.
 47 Chinawood oil
 48 Fund a fellowship
 50 Grad. degree
 52 Wornout piece of cloth
 53 Carolina cape
 56 Martina of tennis
 58 Pixielike
 59 Caspian sturgeon
 61 Settlement
 62 Female pharaoh
 66 750 in letters
 67 Cinema pooch
 68 TV journalist Frank
 69 On the Aegean
 70 Fired off
 71 Hebrew letter
 61 905
 62 Sweltering
 63 Black gooBIKES
Fixie Bike - $140. Very nice and lightweight. 
Listing ID: 260859859 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Huffy Mountain Bike - $60. 16” wheel. 
Includes bike lock. Only a year old and in 
terrific shape. Listing ID: 260859858 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Schwinn Point Beach 7-Speed Bike - $25. 
Blue and cream, some wear and tear, sat 
outside. Listing ID: 260859856 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionELECTRONICS
Tone Platinum Wireless Headset - $150. 
Brand new. Never opened. Bluetooth 
Harman Kardon Platinum. Listing ID: 
260859942 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 - 7 Inches - $100. 
Galaxy Tab 2 black. In attractive condition. 
Comes with flip case, new screen protector, 
charger and box. Listing ID: 260859939 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Bose 201 Series III Speakers - $70. I have a 
pair of Bose speakers that work fine and are 
in attractive shape. But I upgraded a cou -
ple of years ago and they’ve been sitting 
around ever since.  Listing ID: 260859924 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Good as New Futon - $35. Black, metal futon 
for sale! Amazing mattress. Just bought 
futon in August. Only selling because I 
don’t need it anymore and need to sell it 
ASAP . Listing ID: 260859973 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Three Tier Table - $50. Very sturdy, Four feet 
long, 1.5 feet wide, 2.5 feet tall. Listing ID: 
260859969 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sofa Chair - $90. Nice comfortable chair, 
no rips or stains, comes from a pet and 
smoke-free home. Could use some extra 
stuffing in armrest, but overall super comfy. 
Moving and can’t take with me. Listing ID: 
260859965 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972PART TIME JOB 
Family looking for  
part-time student to look 
after our 9 and 11 year old 
daughters  
Monday – Friday,  
2:30pm – 5:30pm.
Person must love children, 
have reliable car and outgoing 
personality. Responsibilities 
include picking up from 
school, helping with 
homework, driving to drop  
off at basketball. 
If interested, contact 
Natalie at 858-414-1129 or 
nrones@coleydocter.com
treasures
vintage
fashion
UCSD International Center
Tuesday - Friday, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(858) 534-1124 • shopfic@ucsd.edu
@Friends_Resale_ShopV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
DAKHABRAKHA
DakhaBrakha possesses an incredible stage presence that
transcends its eclectic repertoire and instrumentation. Reflecting
fundamental elements of sound and soul, this Ukrainian “ethno
chaos” band creates a world of unexpected new music.  
WEDNES DAY , MAY 11, AT 8 P M
PRICE CENTE R EAST BALL ROOM
TICKETS: $30; $12 U CSD ST UDENTS“ . . . it’s the live shows that take DakhaBrakha  
beyond mere curiosity to utter brilliance. ”—NPR
artpower .ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXS
IDAN COHEN DANCE COMPANY  
Gender Bender
Idan Cohen’s new creation is an autobiographical fantasy 
that returns to his early years growing up in the ‘80s and 
incorporates images that reﬂect personal and social 
identities of masculinity, femininity, and all that lies between.
Friday, May 20, at 8 pm
Mandeville Auditorium
Tickets: $28–46
artpower.ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXS
artpower .ucsd.edu  
858.534.TIXSALICIA 
OLATUJA“Her command is inspiring, her 
sense of pure performance goes 
without saying, and her technical 
prowess is magnificient. ”  
—Something Else Reviews
Blending elements of classical, 
jazz, gospel, and pop music, 
Alicia Olatuja’s unique and soulful 
musical style is refined and 
captivating.
Thursday, May 12, at 8 pm
The Loft
Tickets: $12 UCSD StudentUCSD softball concluded its 
2016 season this past week in the 
NCAA West Regionals Tournament. 
Prior to regionals, the Tritons had 
earned the nomination by winning 
the 2016 California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Tournament. 
UCSD, finishing with a 37–21 
overall record, traveled to Azusa 
Pacific where the team ultimately 
lost to APU 2–0, beat Dixie State 2–1 
and was eliminated from playoffs by 
Central Washington 6–5. 
Game 1 - Azusa Pacific 2, UCSD 0
The Tritons fell to the Cougars in 
the West Regional opener on Thursday 
after their offense was unable to garner 
any runs. Though solid in defense, 
UCSD only produced three hits 
throughout the seven innings.
The first half of the game fell into a 
stalemate as both teams didn’t produce 
any runs. It wasn’t until the fourth 
inning when APU scored the only two 
runs of the day. With runners on first 
and second, senior catcher Madison 
Hernandez hit an RBI single to center 
field. Sophomore first baseman Kayla 
Jimenez followed with a two-out RBI 
single to second base. 
The Tritons had an opportunity 
to respond during the fifth inning 
with the bases loaded and one out. 
Unfortunately, freshman third 
baseman Maddy Lewis struck out and 
sophomore second baseman Kendall 
Baker hit into a force-out at third. 
Senior pitcher Lexi Edwards got 
the loss while spanning six innings on 
six hits and two earned runs. Cougars’ 
senior pitcher Narissa Garcia, in turn, 
powered through seven innings and 
gave up only three hits.
Game 2 - UCSD 2, Dixie State 1
UCSD led Dixie State Friday 
afternoon and shut their team down 
Saturday to resist elimination. The game was delayed due to rain; after 
the game resumed, the players were 
able to conclude the game after the last 
three innings. 
The Trailblazers put the first 
run on the board in the first inning. 
However, junior outfielder Shelby 
Yung, who reached and advanced to 
second on a throwing error, scored 
on senior catcher Autumn Woodfall’s 
double to left. 
UCSD’s first run came in the top 
third inning with runners on second 
and third. With two outs, senior 
shortstop McKenna Clewett singled 
up the middle and drove in Baker 
while senior outfielder Taylor Abeyta, 
who was at second, was thrown out 
at home. 
The winning run was scored during 
the fifth inning when sophomore 
outfielder Kelsi Maday hit a fly ball to 
deep right field. Baker scored on the 
sacrifice fly which gave her the second 
run of the night. 
Senior pitcher Hannah Duarte 
earned her sixth win after she gave up 
no runs and only two hits. However, 
senior pitcher Aryn Feickert received 
the loss after pitching all seven innings 
and allowing two runs. With the win, 
the Tritons avoided elimination from 
the tournament and advanced to play 
the No. 2-seeded Central W ashington.
Game 3 - Central W ashington 6, 
UCSD 5
The Tritons’ late rally proved to be 
not enough in a heartbreaking loss to 
the Wildcats Saturday afternoon; they 
saw their hopes and season come to 
an end as the last batter sophomore 
catcher Lauren Sanders popped up in 
foul territory. 
The first three runs of Central 
W ashington were brought on by senior 
pitcher Brielle Copodonna’s three-run 
homer in the first inning where the 
Wildcats scored another run in the 
second inning on a bases-loaded walk 
from freshman pitcher Lauren Brown.UCSD scored its first two in the 
third inning. With two runners on 
after a single and hit by pitch, Sanders 
managed to hit a two-out single to left 
center and brought in two runs. 
Central W ashington, however, 
drove in a couple more runs in the 
fifth inning. After redshirt senior 
catcher Austin Wilkerson cracked a 
solo shot and senior third baseman 
Andrea Hamada hit an RBI single by 
the end of the fifth inning, CWU had a 
comfortable 6–2 lead.
The seventh inning saw the 
Tritons come together and maintain 
composure as they put up a late rally. 
UCSD loaded the bases with one out 
on a couple singles and a reach. Abeyta 
and Maday followed with singles of 
their own, bringing in sophomore 
third baseman Rachel Phillips, Baker 
and Lewis. The final two outs were 
recorded on Abeyta’s attempted steal of 
third and Sander’s pop up. UCSD lost 
5–6 and was taken out of the playoffs.
Brown, now 12–7, gave up four 
runs in her 1.1 inning start and got 
the loss. CWU’s junior pitcher Kiana 
Wood earned the win in her four-run 
complete game. 
Maday, who led the team with 64 
hits and 40 RBIs on the season, also 
ties the single-season run record with 
54. Edwards finished her senior year 
with a team-leading 16 wins and an 
impressive 1.96 ERA. Maddy Lewis 
was the CCAA ’s Freshman of the Y ear.
Though eliminated, UCSD put up 
a tough fight the entire season and 
ended on a good note. The team’s 
37–21 record is a 12-win improvement 
compared to last season, and the late 
rally signified that Tritons don’t give up 
until the very last outing. Head coach 
Patti Gerckens and UCSD will return 
in 2017 and look to claim the title. UCSD Admits Defeat After Almost 
Completing a Comeback at NCAAs
After its underdog run at the CCAA Championships, UCSD cannot recapture the 
magic losing to Azusa Pacific and Central Washington in NCAA West Regionals.
BY  A n t h o n y   T z e n gSOFTBALL
Anthony  Tzeng   (6’5”) third and both sophomores Ruthvik Sunilkumar and 
Raymond Silver took fourth (6’3.25”).
In the 4x100 relay race, the Tritons placed in second with 
a mark of 40.91 by Elijah, Hunter, Dirks and Doan, a new 
school record. In the 100-meter event, Doan (10.76) took 
second, Hunter (10.94) fifth, Elijah (10.98) sixth and Dirks 
(11.00) seventh.  
Another Triton runner-up was freshman Nicholas Rack 
in the 110-meter hurdles with a 14.67 finish. Meanwhile in 
the 400-meter hurdles junior Markus Woods (55.13) and 
Rack (59.40) finished fifth and sixth. Freshman Helen Tade 
rounded out the top three with a personal-best time of 14.73 
in the women's 100-meter hurdles.
Both men and women 4x400 relay teams came in second 
place. Junior Jackie Chalmers (57.25)  earned a fourth place 
finish in the 400 meter, while her teammate, sophomore 
Meghan Fletcher (1.02.39) finished runner-up in the 400-meter hurdles. Sophomore Isaiah King (49.43) and junior 
Jared Senese (49.68) also took part in the 400-meter race 
and finished fourth and fifth. 
The sole Triton competitor in the 3000-meter 
steeplechase, senior Daniel Franz, finished fourth with a 
time of 9:16.13. In the 1500-meter race, junior Terrence 
Luevano placed in fourth with a time of 3.55.62. 
The men got a total of 190 points, which was not 
enough to repeat as CCAA Champions. Chico State 
reclaimed its crown and has now won 13 of the last 14 
titles. The women, like the men, finished second to Chico 
State, with 137.66 points. 
Next up, a few Tritons will head to Santa Barbara for the 
Westmont All On the Line Open as they attempt to extend 
their season and earn a qualifying mark to the NCAA 
national championships. UCSD Set to Line Up at Westmont All On The Line Open
▶ TRACK & FIELD,  from page 12
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANdaniel  hernandez     CONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER & DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Life Sciences 
PHYS 002A. General Physics (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.   
Classical mechanics. 
PHYS 002B.  General Physics (4).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, 
discussion 1 hr. Fluids, thermodynamics, 
electromagnetism.
PHYS 002C . General Physics (4).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr. 
Waves, optics; quantum, atomic, and nuclear 
physics.2016 UCR 
Summer 
Courses in 
Physics and 
Astronomy
General course offerings for undergraduates in Life Sciences,  
Physical Sciences, Engineering, and Humanities
Summer School  Registration: 
May 16-June 15
Session 1: June 20-July 23
Session 2: July 25-August 27
For  more information, consult the 
UCR Catalog or contact (951) 827-
5332 for assistance. PHYS 02LA . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1. Lab 3 hrs. 
Laboratory for PHYS 002A.
PHYS 02LB . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1, Session 2.  
Lab 3 hrs. Laboratory for PHYS 002B.
PHYS 02LC . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 2. Lab 3 hrs.  
Laboratory for PHYS 002C.
Engineering and Physical Sciences
PHYS 040A.  General Physics (5).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr, 
lab 3 hrs. Classical mechanics.PHYS 040B. General Physics (5).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 
1 hr, lab 3 hrs. Thermodynamics, mechanical 
and sound waves, elasticity.
PHYS 040C. General Physics (5).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr,  
lab 3 hrs. Electricity and magnetism, elec -
tromagnetic oscillations; dc and ac current; 
circuits.
Humanities
PHYS 037.  The Origins (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.  
The Origin of the Universe, Origin of Matter, 
First Generation of Stars and Galaxies. Courtesy: National Science FoundationRunner-ups
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE AND CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
UCSD was back at the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Championship up at Cal State Los 
Angeles. The men were defending their title 
acquired the year before and returned many of the same 
competitors. Both teams could not get over the hump, 
however, as they both took a step back to Chico State and 
finished in second place.
Day One 
Thursday was the first day of competition for the 
UCSD track and field team, which was hosted by Cal 
State Los Angeles. Both the men’s and women’s teams 
competed in their respective events: the decathlon, 
heptathlon, hammer throw and javelin.
Junior Dan Golubovic was the standout performer 
as he took the crown in the javelin event, giving him 
his second CCAA title of his career. The final throw, his 
most impressive, reached the 197’6” mark. The Tritons 
have owned the event for the past eight years, as they 
continue to produce outstanding performances time 
after time, with Golubovic succeeding the Howe brothers, 
who won the past seven years. Golubovic’s teammates 
also performed well: Redshirt senior thrower Anthony 
Capitulo finished third (194’3”), while senior thrower Travis 
Vandegriff finished fifth (193’). 
In the women's javelin, redshirt senior sprinter and thrower 
Ellexi Snover and senior thrower Haley Libuit finished fourth and 
fifth. Junior jumper and thrower Savanna Forry competed in the 
hammer throw and was able to finish in seventh after a throw of 152’5” . 
Freshman Natalie Reichenbach placed in fifth with 2602 points 
midway through the heptathlon. Reichenbach put up respectable displays 
in the four events of day one: fifth in the 100 hurdles (15.59/772), tied fourth 
in the high jump (5’0.25”/655), seventh in shot put (28’9.75”/450) and sixth in 
the 200-meter (26.76/732). 
After day one, the women sat in third place with 11 points. The men also were in 
third place, but with 31 points, after the javelin win.
Day Two
Senior distance runner Paige Hughes took over the 10,000 meter event on Friday as she brought 
home the victory with a time of 36:03.42 to claim a glorious three peat in the competition. Triton teammate 
Skylar Thiel finished eighth with a personal best time of 37:44.85.
Sophomore jumper Matt Bowen tasted victory on the second day as he won the men’s long jump competition, jumping for 23’8.25 on his second attempt. Redshirt senior jumper Kyle Chiu placed fourth 
(22’1”) while senior jumper Sean Cook earned a seventh place (21’2”).
On the women's side, senior Kristen Daugherty (18’1.75”) and junior Casey Buck (18’0.25”) took solid third- and fourth-place performances in the long jump.  
The men’s discus provided a hard task for the Triton men as Golubovic (151’9”) finished fifth, sophomore Mason Falahat (145’10”) sixth, and junior Chris Vanliew (140’5”) eighth. 
Both Triton competitors for the 10,000 meter event, junior Brendan Gee (31:20.01) and senior Tareq Alwafai (31:21.26) were neck and neck toward the end and finished fifth and sixth. 
Four Tritons reached the track finals for the 100-meter event on Saturday and two for the 200-meter event. Paul Doan qualified for both events with a 10.62 in the 100m and 21.88 in the 200 meter. 
Freshman Andrew Dirks similarly qualified for both events with times of 10.94 and 22.21. The other two Tritons, sophomore Justin Hunter (10.86) and junior Emmanuel Elijah (10.95) qualified for the 100-
meter final. 
After the second day, the Triton men moved up to second place with 52 points, only behind the 93 points put up by Chico State. The women finished the day in second with 38 points, with Chico State 
in first with 50 points. 
Day Three 
Golubovic once again was victorious, this time in the pole vault after he cleared a height of 15’7.25” on his third attempt. Sophomore Devin Stetson (11’8.5”) finished fourth. His counterpart, junior Chrissi 
Carr (12’2.5”)  finished second in the women's pole vault.  
Bowen made it back to back titles in the triple jump with his best jump of the season on his third attempt, 49’3” . Junior Khalil Flemister (46’4.25”) finished in fourth. Senior Kristin Sato (37’10.75) finished 
third in the women's triple jump, Ashley Rhorer (37’4”) sixth, Natalie Caraway (37’3”) seventh and Daugherty (36’9.75”) eighth. 
Junior Savanna Forry outdid the competition in the high jump as she cleared a height of 5’4.25” to win the title. The men placed well in the event as well as Cook (6’7”) second, sophomore Brett Molster 
week  in
summar y
SOFTBALL
Azusa PacificUCSD0
2
Dixie StateUCSD2
1
Central WashingtonUCSD5
6
TRACK  &   FIELD
Men’s
2nd
190 pts.
Women’s
2nd
137.66 pts.UCSD takes a back-seat to Chico State at CCAA 
Championships but still finishes in second.
Written by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff Writer
CCAA 
CHAMPIONSHIPM. Tennis 
W. Water Polo
Baseball
W. Rowing
M. RowingUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESAT Azusa Pacific
VS Whittier
AT CCAA Championship
AT Dad Vail Championships 
AT Western Sprints Championships5/9
5/10
5/11
5/13
5/14
See TRACK & FIELD , page 11