VOLUME 49, ISSUE 45   MONDA Y , APRIL 11, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE ENDURING 
C.H.E. CAFE
THE C.H.E CAFE COLLECTIVE 
REMAINS A PRESENCE ON 
CAMPUS IN SPITE OF BEING 
THREATENED WITH CLOSURE 
FOR NEARLY TWO YEARS. HEAR 
THE INSTITUTION’S LONG AND 
COLORFUL HISTORY.
RESTRICTIVE   MEAL  PLAN
MEN'S VOLLEYBALLDINING  DOLLAR AUTONOMY
Tritons  Break Losing StreakOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age   11
MONDAY
H 66 L 54TUESDAY
H 66 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 54THURSDAY
H 66 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THOUGH IT MAY SEEM 
NATURAL TO VOTE FOR WHO 
IS QUALIFIED, WHO HAS 
TANGIBLE PLANS, REALISTIC 
SOLUTIONS AND INDIVIDUAL 
PLATFORMS, IT’S BECOME 
CLEAR — AND RIGHTLY 
SO — THAT IN ORDER FOR 
THE SCHOOL TO THRIVE, YOU 
REALLY HAVE TO THINK ABOUT 
THE BIG PICTURE.”
- HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......3
RACIST CHALKING  ......... 4
DIVERSITY IN ATHLETICS  .8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ GUARDIAN
The UC Office of the President 
announced last Monday that the 
nine undergraduate UC campuses 
accepted 8,488 more California 
residents than the previous 
academic year — an approximate 
15-percent increase.
According to an April 4 press 
release, these numbers put the UC 
system as a whole on track to meet 
its goal of enrolling 5,000 additional 
California undergraduates for the 
2016-2017 school year and 2,500 
students for each of the following 
two years. UCSD will admit 
approximately 750 additional 
California-resident students, UCSD 
Communications Manager Christine Clark told the UCSD Guardian.
To cover the costs associated with 
enrolling more students, the state of 
California will provide the UC system 
with $25 million to supplement the 
$25 million that UCOP will provide. 
This, according to UC President 
Janet Napolitano, reaffirms the 
University of California’s dedication 
to educating in-state residents.
“We’ve intensified our efforts to 
boost enrollment of Californians at 
the University, and all indications 
are that these efforts are working, ” 
Napolitano stated in the press release. 
“Our commitment to California 
and California students has never 
wavered, even through the worst 
financial downturn since the Great 
Depression. Now, with additional 
state funding, we are able to bring in even more California students. ”
UCOP has received criticism 
over the past few weeks after state 
auditor Elaine Howle concluded 
in her report that the UC system 
lowered admission standards for 
out-of-state students in order to 
profit off of the higher tuition 
rates that nonresidents pay. UCOP 
admitted in the press release that 
it voluntarily increased out-of-state 
enrollment for financial reasons. 
“Nonresident tuition at 
the University is an important 
component of UC’s fiscal stability, 
which was severely stressed by a $1 
billion cut in state funding, a third 
of the University’s core educational 
budget, ” the press release stated. BSU Hosts 
Overnight 
Program for 
Black Students#BlackAtUCSD
The event is part of a month-
long project aimed at raising 
awareness about incidents of 
anti-blackness at UCSD.
BY   j o s h  l e f l e r
associate news editor
Members of the Black Student 
Union hosted an overnight program 
for admitted black students last 
week in conjunction with a quarter-
long social media campaign, 
titled #BlackAtUCSD, to “[raise] 
awareness of the black experience at 
UC San Diego. ”
According to the Facebook event 
page, #BlackAtUCSD is a hashtag 
meant to “chronicle different events, 
programs, and protests on campus, ” 
and “serve as an archive of Black life 
[and] Black experiences … at UCSD. ”
Andre Thompson, student intern 
at UCSD’s Black Student Union and 
one of the organizers of the event, 
explained to the UCSD Guardian 
what the origins of the hashtag are 
in an email. 
“The hashtag #BlackAtUCSD has 
been used since my first year as a way 
to chronicle the life and experiences 
of Black and Afrikan [sic] students 
at UC San Diego, ” Thompson said. 
“Since my second year it has exploded 
in use and has been an archive of 
Black life at UCSD to address the 
anti-Blackness that prevails here. ”
Over the course of 10 weeks, 
students are encouraged to share 
their stories with the hashtag through 
Twitter, Instagram and Facebook 
in the context of weekly themes 
including “Black Appropriation, ” 
“Black in the Classroom” and others.
These anecdotes, according to 
Thompson, are meant to highlight 
and point out the overt and more 
often subtle ways in which black 
students experience racism on 
campus and in their daily lives.
“Usually the conversation of 
Blackness is only brought up when 
racist events come up across the 
country and people quickly forget the 
reality of being Black on an everyday 
basis, ” Thompson said.
Thompson introduced a 
Google Form to the event page in 
which students could submit their 
#BlackAtUCSD stories anonymously, 
citing the concern that “students 
might feel more comfortable 
posting to the hashtag through an 
anonymous platform. ” Thompson 
also stated that non-black students 
can support the campaign by 
discussing incidents of racism they 
have observed on campus. 
“Non-Black students can show 
solidarity by telling their own stories 
of anti-blackness … and how it affects 
them, ” Thompson said. “The biggest Committee Announces 
Results of  2016 Election
A.S. Election Manager Claire Maniti announced on 
Friday evening that Lauren Roberts won the A.S. Vice 
President of External Affairs race by a margin of 2,317 
to 2,179. Daniel Juarez and Sabrina Ekdahl, who ran 
unopposed, will be next year’s A.S. President and A.S. VP 
of Campus Affairs, respectively. This year, 5,882 students 
— 23 percent of the student body — voted on TritonLink.
In the campuswide senator race, students voted to elect 
Kenny Jones, Rachel Adams, Desiree Johnson, Morgan 
Kuwashima and Dharla Torres. 
Also, Golan Khorshidi and Azze Ngo won the Off-
Campus Senator seats while Rubab Rizvi won Transfer 
Senator. In addition, Alexis Eubank, Christy Olds, Denasia 
Gaines, Emily Globe and Angie Aguilar won the races for 
Arts and Humanities Senator, Biological Sciences Senator, 
Social Sciences Senator, Engineering Senator and Physical 
Sciences Senator, respectively. 
The Students Determined slate — which included 
Juarez, Roberts, Jones, Adams, Ngo, Rizvi, Eubank, Olds, 
Gaines and Torres — won 10 of the 16 A.S. Council 
positions that students can vote on. Ekdahl, Johnson, 
Kuwashima, Globe, Aguilar and Khorshidi of Tritons 
United won the remaining six. The newly elected A.S. Council members will assume 
their positions during Week 8 of this quarter. Juarez will 
replace current A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa 
while Roberts and Ekdahl will take over for Krystl Fabella 
and Taylor Valdivia, respectively. 
The student body also approved the A.S. Campus 
Activity Fee Referendum by a margin of 3,172 in favor to 
1,922 against. The referendum increases the fee by $14.92 
per student per quarter and will be allocated toward 
student events, organizations and services.
Following the announcements, Daniel Juarez told the 
UCSD Guardian that she is looking forward to serving 
the student population and pursuing initiatives such as 
improving student housing. 
“I think that we really need to start focusing on the 
material realities that students face, ” Juarez said. “ And if 
we’re not doing that then I don’t think we’re doing anything 
good for the students. ”
In response to the victory of her slate, A.S. VP of 
External Affairs-elect Lauren Roberts told the Guardian 
that she is honored to have been a part of their campaign. 
“They represent so much more than names, pictures 
and candidate statements, ” Roberts said. “These people, to B y  maria sebas      news editorial assistantMUSIC
Campuses Increase In-State Admission Offers
The 15-percent boost puts the UC system on track to enrolling 5,000 additional Californians.See ELECTION , page 3
UC SYSTEM
BY  j a c ky  t o  a n d  j o s h  l e f l e r
NEWS EDitors
See BLACK , page 3 See ADMISSIONS , page 3A.S. COUNCIL
Alternative band XYLO, who the Guardian interviewed for last Thursday’s issue, performed at The Loft this past Saturday.
Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD GuardianUCSD researchers announced 
that they have engineered a type 
of steel that now holds the highest 
recorded elastic limit, which 
determines the amount of pressure 
that can be applied to a material 
without it experiencing permanent 
deformation, in an April 5 press 
release. The project began in 2012 
and involved researchers from the 
University of Southern California, 
California Institute of Technology 
and Alfred University. 
The steel, called SAM2X5-630, 
is an alloy that di ffers from other 
steel materials by its amorphous 
matrix and “very small” amounts of 
crystalline regions. According to the 
researchers, the crystalline regions 
are what allowed the material 
to break the elastic limit record, 
meaning the steel can withstand 
more pressure than almost any 
other material without being 
permanently deformed. Diamond 
still holds a higher elastic limit, but 
it is impractical for real-world use as 
a material. 
The goal of the research was 
to alter the mechanical properties of the steel in order to make the 
material less brittle, mechanical 
engineering professor Olivia Graeve 
told the UCSD Guardian. However, 
Graeve stated that participating 
in the project was also a matter of 
personal interest.
“These types of materials, which 
are amorphous materials, [have so 
many] questions about them; there 
are so many unknowns, ” Graeve 
said. “[Joining the research] was 
really just [out of] curiosity. ” 
Graeve developed the steel alloy 
through a number of steps that 
took the material from a mixture of 
powdered elements to a solid that 
could endure impact testing. The 
metal powders were first mixed in a 
graphite mold. Then, Graeve and her 
team pressurized the powders at 100 
mega-pascals and applied a current 
of 10,000 amperes at 1165 degrees 
Fahrenheit, which consolidated 
the components into a solid piece 
of material, through a time-and 
energy-saving process called “spark 
plasma sintering. ”
After Graeve completed the 
material, it was passed along 
to assistant professor Veronica 
Elaisson, who specializes in shock 
waves at USC. She tested the steel to determine its elastic limit by 
shooting samples of the steel with 
copper plates from a gas gun at 
speeds ranging from 500 to 1300 
meters per second.
Researchers were shocked at 
how well the steel alloy resisted 
permanent deformation during 
the tests, Elaisson explained to the 
Guardian. 
“It was surprising because none 
of the previous results that we had 
seen pointed that this would ever 
happen, ” Elaisson stated. “ A lot of 
the previous people had said that, 
if anything, [the elastic limit of the 
material] just stays the same as if 
you have a fully amorphous sample, 
and if you have a sample with a tiny 
crystalline region, [the limit] is not 
going to change that much. ”
The steel alloy received an 
elastic limit score of 11.76 plus or 
minus 1.26 giga-pascals when at a 
thickness of 1.5 to 1.8 millimeters, 
completely dwar fing stainless steel’s 
0.2 giga-pascal elastic limit.
According to Graeve, because its 
elastic limit is so high, SAM2X5-630 
can serve as an external shield that 
protects internal objects. 
“If you have something that is 
delicate or you don’t want it to get damaged, you can use this material 
for the outside as shielding or 
protection, ” Graeve said. “Using it as 
shielding in satellites and things like 
this is a very good example. ”
Graeve also noted that the project 
was important from an educational 
point of view because it contributed 
to the academic growth of student 
scientists involved.
“The students that were involved 
were very interested [in the project], 
so we now have a new generation 
of scientists that find this area of 
research compelling and want to 
continue working on it, ” Graeve 
stated. “Besides from the science, we 
have the development of new young 
people [in this area of engineering 
and science], so that’s also very 
rewarding. ”
Elaisson believes this project will 
have notable rami fications for future 
research, although she is unsure of 
what that research will be. 
“It opens up a whole new venue 
of the interesting research that can 
be done, ” Elaisson said. “I see good 
things happening in the future for 
these types of materials. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowestPrices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastestServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course ReadersSAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Quinn is not a freshman. He is an old, 22-year 
old senior at UCSD. Get over it.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists Engineer Most Pressure-Resistant Steel to Date
The steel alloy, called SAM2X5-630, can be used as external armor for human bodies or objects such as satellites.
LAUREN   HOL T   LcHOLT@UCSD.EDU
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee More
By  L A U R E N   H O L T
STAFF WRITER“Nonresident enrollment at UC 
[universities] grew in direct response 
to this decline in state funds, which 
remain below prerecession levels. ”
According to the UC admissions 
website, nonresident students pay an 
average of $24,708 more than what 
California residents pay for tuition. 
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs Krystl Fabella told the 
Guardian in November, when 
UCOP’s plan was announced, that 
the proposed influx of new students would overwhelm the infrastructure 
of the university.
“ Any student on the ground 
dealing with these daily struggles will 
know that our campus is not ready 
to take on [the additional students], ” 
Fabella said. “It’s not just new dorm 
beds and classes that would need to 
be factored in. It’s literally everything 
that will be aggravated even more 
with the enrollment: student-to-
teacher ratio, overwhelmed TAs, 
housing, parking, etc. This will prove 
to be way more costly, with all the 
elements that would go into it. ”In addition to accepting more 
California residents, the UC campuses 
also admitted more California 
freshmen of Chicano or Latino and 
African-American descent, which 
comprise 37.2 percent of all admitted 
students. Further, the proportions 
of the admission pool that are first-
generation college students and 
students from low-income families 
also rose to 42.8 percent and 37.4 
percent, respectively.me, represent the idea of change at a 
systematic level here at UCSD and I 
could not have been more honored 
to run with them. ”
Incoming A.S. VP of Student 
Affairs Sabrina Ekdahl told the 
Guardian that one of her main 
platforms is increasing the sense of community at UCSD and she hopes 
to do so through avenues  including 
UCSD athletics. 
“I’m strongly pushing for 
that [Division-I] referendum so 
hopefully that passes, ” Ekdahl said. 
“With that, what I want to do is get 
students more engaged in athletics 
and just school spirit it general. I 
think athletics is a great platform for students to get involved.
Students will vote on the whether 
or not to shift UCSD athletics to 
NCAA Division I during Week 8 of 
this quarter.
source of support would be to learn 
and make sure the people around 
them learn as well. ” 
UCSD has a history of racist 
incidents on campus. In 2010, one 
of the campus’ fraternities hosted 
a “Compton Cookout, ” which 
encouraged students to dress “ghetto” 
and eat watermelon as a means of 
mocking Black History Month, 
prompting backlash from the black 
student population and its allies. That 
same year, a student was suspended after she admitted to hanging a noose 
on the seventh floor of Geisel without 
understanding the racial implications 
of the symbol.
Just recently, the self-proclaimed 
satirical newspaper The Koala 
released an issue containing racial 
epithets and mocking the use of 
safe spaces. The BSU staged protests 
against The Koala last November.
But Thompson argues that it is the 
non-antagonistic and appropriative 
forms of racism that this initiative is 
meant to target.
“This campaign is necessary to open up the eyes of UCSD and bring 
together the REAL story of Blackness 
at this campus and to dispel many 
harmful stereotypes perpetuated 
by the student body, ” Thompson 
said. “The racial exclusion here is 
of commodity. People only want to 
consume Blackness without caring 
who it hurts or affects” 
According to UCSD admission 
statistics, black students comprise 
less than 2 percent of the school’s 
undergraduate student body. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Sunday,  April 3
2:16 p.m. Information
Per CSO, motorist passed by and 
raised bottle, unknown what 
kind of substance was in bottle. 
Information only.
11:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Missing person
Report of female gone missing in 
Rosarito, Mexico.  Missing person 
found.
12:52 a.m. Marijuana Contact
Two females smoking by bushes. 
Information only.
Monday, April 4
11:03 a.m. Non Injury Collision
UC golf cart vs. parked vehicle. 
Report taken.
10:04 a.m. Citizen Contact
Dispute between motorists over 
parking space.  Gone on arrival.
3:52 p.m. Welfare Check
Report of male student who walked 
away from CAPS, subject said to be 
disoriented and believes people are 
trying to hurt him. Transported to 
hospital.
9:07 p.m. Assist Other Agency
Subject caught inside vehicle, 
possibly attempted to steal vehicle. 
Referred to other agency.
1:19 a.m. Noise Disturbance 
Loud music and banging on the 
floor.  Referred to student conduct.
Tuesday, April 5
12:13 a.m. Citizen Flagdown
Directions needed.  Service 
provided.
4:04 a.m. Public Intoxication
Report of young adult male 
laying down sleeping on sidewalk.  
Transported to detox.
3:56 p.m. Lost Property
Possible controlled substance turned into CSO as lost and found. 
Service provided.
8:43 a.m. Shoplifting 
Female student selected, concealed 
and failed to pay for food item, loss 
less than $99.99.  Referred to student 
conduct.
Wednesday, Apr il 6
11:16 a.m. Citizen Contact
Subject in Library possibly in violation 
of stay away order.  Checks OK.
12:38 p.m. Information
Small amount of marijuana found 
in backpack turned into lost and 
found.  Marijuana impounded.
5:12 p.m. Citizen Contact
Regarding collision that occurred 
off campus, other party now 
refusing to provide insurance 
information.  Referred to other 
agency.
5:20 p.m. Medical Aid
Young adult male hit head on 
door, having difficulty breathing. 
Transported to hospital.
10:44 p.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting party has not seen friend 
since allowing friend to borrow 
vehicle over 3+ hours ago. Service 
provided.
Thursday, April 7
1:02 p.m. Argument - Disturbance  
Adult male on phone yelling and 
kicking things.  Unable to locate.
11:00 p.m. Marijuana Contact
Resident Advisor found marijuana 
on sidewalk.  Marijuana impounded.
— PROMITA NANDY 
Staff WriterA.S. Council to Hold Vote on Division-I Referendum During Week 8
Out-of-State Students Pay $24,708 More Than Residents for Tuition
Black Students Comprise Less Than 2 Percent of  the UCSD Student Body▶ ELECTION,  from page 1
▶ ADMISSIO NS, from page 1
▶ BLACK,  from page 1
jOSH  LEFLER   maria sebas   
josh lefler   4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See DINING, page 5With Spring Quarter ushering in a panic of scrambling students either 
selling their unused dining dollars or desperately trying to purchase dining 
dollars, it seems proper to address Housing, Dining and Hospitality and its 
rather unsavory policies and regulations. In the best interest of the students, 
HDH should cease to limit the transfer of dining dollars among students, and 
improve the overcharging, insufficient operating times, and unhealthy options 
faced by students desperate to make use of mandatory dining plans.
First, dining dollar transactions between students should not be limited to 
Spring Quarter and sellers of dining dollars should not be forced to keep the 
HDH “recommended” amount. Forcing students to keep a certain amount 
each week only increases the risk that the dining dollars won’t be sold at the end 
of the quarter. Limiting the amounts students can transfer makes it difficult, 
if not impossible, to sell large amounts of dining dollars, which is vastly more 
convenient than selling small amounts of dining dollars weekly. Students who 
have already paid for dining dollars deserve full autonomy over spending and 
selling their dining dollars in any way they see fit. 
The mandated purchase of dining dollars is one the most prominent 
downsides to living on campus in residential halls. The smallest plans for those living in the residence halls is the Triton Lite plan at $3,255, and — since 
students are forced to buy dining dollars — HDH can, and does, overcharge 
on numerous items. For example, the markets charge $1.79 for an individual 
cup of cereal while Amazon sells a pack of 60 for about 78 cents per cup, Target 
for $1.07, and CVS for $1.00. Students, forced to spend dining dollars at HDH 
markets, are compelled to make such absurd uneconomical purchases to spend 
money they had to buy. Mandating the purchase of dining dollars with on-
campus residence no longer subjects either the HDH markets or dining halls to 
the level of competition faced by other markets and restaurants. Competition 
drives better food at lower prices, as restaurants and markets are forced to 
compete for consumers so they are constantly improving. 
The hours of the dining halls are similarly problematic for college students. 
With most dining halls closing at 9:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 
many students have to resort to microwavable food or quick noodles — both 
unhealthy options — from the markets to fit their eating schedule. Other UC 
campuses such as UC Berkeley have late-night initiatives with dinings halls open 
until 2:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, according to Berkeley.edu. While 
HDH does attempt to make accommodations for those with food allergies, 
QUICK TAKESA TRUMP-SUPPORTING GROUP — ONE OF MAN WHO HAVE BEEN FORMING ACROSS AMERICAN COLLEGE CAMPUSES 
— LEFT XENOPHOBIC REMARKS ON CAMPUS EARLIER THIS WEEK. WHAT COUNTER-ACTIONS ARE APPROPRIATE?How-to 
Guru: Be 
An Effective 
Voter
If there’s one thing every UCSD 
student was preoccupied with over the 
last week, it was voting for candidates 
in the A.S. Election. Y es, the yearly 
campaigns stormed the school: On 
Library Walk, on Tritonlink, on your 
Facebook feed, on Tinder, Grindr 
— no one turned a blind eye to this 
massive process. Candidates took to 
every public place to tell you how they 
want to ameliorate campus, improve 
inclusivity and eliminate debt, climate 
change, disagreement, as well as all of 
the bad things. 
That’s why we’re here to tell you 
readers how to be an active voter. 
Though it may seem natural to 
vote for who is qualified, who has 
tangible plans, realistic solutions and 
individual platforms, it’s become clear 
— and rightly so — that in order for 
the school to thrive, you really have to 
think about the big picture.
We’re talking one word: slates.
As W ashington has proved in 
recent years, there’s a certain goodness 
to Congressional gridlock, a certain 
sanctity in stagnation, a certain beauty 
in bi-partisan politics. Why not, then, 
bring this American value to the 
college level?
As a voter, there are things that 
you simply must do.
First and foremost, pay attention 
to vibes as you research the slates. 
The vibe is vital. Say someone from 
the slate you do not support turns 
out to be different than other people 
on the slate — again, I’m asking you 
to imagine — and, for that reason, 
attracts your attention. Do not give 
into temptation. Y ou’re better than 
that. We all make sacrifices for the 
sake of polarization. And if someone 
dares be an Independent, well, clearly 
they’re just some hipster with a 
political agenda who doesn’t truly 
care about change on campus. If they 
did, they would gladly subscribe to 
the way we do things here in college 
politics, and we would be able to 
either hail them or recycle them based 
on the people they’re running with. It’s 
not rocket science. It’s efficiency.
The next step is to head into 
the heart of campus to check for 
any remnants of The Guardian’s 
endorsement issue. If you find any, 
do not hesitate to recycle all of them. 
We mistakenly forgot to account 
for analysis of candidates on group 
membership rather than an individual 
basis, and we are so, so sorry for 
inhibiting any progress.
What’s more important than 
having candidates who are qualified 
and passionate about achievable 
goals is having candidates who 
kind of agree, or, like, both wear 
the same color of shirt when they 
campaign, right? We want the 
people representing the University of 
California at San Diego to look like 
one group, in terms of shirt color — it 
doesn’t matter if they have unified 
philosophies and values.
With many decisions, you have to 
weigh costs and benefits. But there 
are no downsides to slates. There 
are no tensions, no distractions, no 
grievances that have to be filed, no 
slandering. It’s pure action, legislation, 
progress. If you really care about 
facilitating change on this campus as 
a voter, it’s time to cut the crap, flip a 
coin and pick a side.T o Ensure That College is A Safe Environment, Campuses 
Must Take Action and Listen to Students Who Feel T argeted  To p - D o w n  A u t h o r i t a t i v e  M e a s u re s  t o  E l i m i n a t e  Tr u m p 
Protestors Will Not Address Root of  National Problem
For a candidate who sticks to such vague rhetoric, Donald Trump has a 
clear reputation in the minds of supporters and detractors alike. He repeatedly 
insults and scapegoats entire groups of people, including Mexicans, Muslims, 
women, refugees, Chinese people, disabled people, LGBT people and the poor, 
which altogether accounts for a majority of people on Earth. Trump’s ideas have 
no place on college campuses that are trying to increase diversity and empower 
disadvantaged groups, because his campaign consists mainly of the idea that 
taking and keeping power away from minorities will make America great again.
Trump’s message evidently resonates with David Duke, former Grand 
Wizard of the KKK, and white supremacist organizations like the American 
National Super PAC and the American Freedom Party, who have endorsed 
Trump. Trump responded only with feigned ignorance about their politics, 
followed eventually by lukewarm disavowal after heavy media criticism.
Supporters absolutely understand the threat a Trump presidency poses to 
minorities, and use his name and rhetoric to intimidate them. News outlets 
as varied as NBC and Breitbart have reported various high schools, especially 
private, predominantly white ones, chanting “Trump” and “Build a Wall” at 
sporting events against rival, predominantly Hispanic teams. Most of these kids 
cannot vote, showing it has less to do with the actual election and more with 
the new acceptability of racist rhetoric in the mainstream.
The sight of security escorting out protesters remains commonplace at 
Trump rallies. In Las Vegas, Trump stated his desire to hit protesters and 
has encouraged attendees to do it for him, promising to cover legal fees. An 
attendee in Fayetteville, North Carolina was charged for assaulting a protester 
on their way out, and videos at other rallies show similar responses. No other 
candidate’s rallies facilitate the violence, coercion, and rage that Trump’s do. 
Feeling unsafe seems like a reasonable response to anonymous peer 
support of a man who incites violence, and when students honestly voice these 
feelings, calling them oversensitive does not fix the problem, it only further 
disenfranchises them. College is about exposure to new ideas, but bigotry and 
discrimination are not new ideas to any minority student, and they inevitably 
learn them their whole lives on campus and off. Constantly making this 
conversation about free speech derails the actual dialogues that happen in 
response, like student-organized protests.
             — THOMAS  FINN
Senior Staff WriterThe rise of student-led political groups supporting Donald Trump 
for president has led to a series of counter-protests from students who 
condemn Trump’s discriminatory policies, such as one at University of 
Illinois at Chicago that resulted in “fights inside the University of Illinois 
Chicago Pavilion and in the streets outside” after Trump cancelled his 
appearance due to safety concerns, according to The Guardian.  While 
it is easily arguable that Trump’s policies have encouraged violence and 
bigotry, it would be ineffective to silence these groups since they will 
continue to exist in the world outside of college. If education is supposed 
to prepare students for the real world, then creating a safe space without 
Trump supporters will ultimately fail to ensure college students can 
adequately handle ugly truths such as racism and bigotry.
In addition, simply shutting out speech we disagree with is not an 
effective way to counter political groups. Denying Trump supporters the 
right to protest ignores the fundamental reason why freedom of speech 
exists. As Obama noted in a 2015 interview, “free speech is to make sure 
that we are forced to use argument and reason and words in making our 
democracy work, ” according to nymag. In other words, we should be 
forced to think critically and rationally as to why we disagree with Trump’s 
views. We should not just blindly silence Trump supporters without even 
making an attempt to understand or comprehend them; rather, we need to 
refine our arguments to counter their views in a comprehensive manner. 
This means creating student-led protests that peacefully and intelligently 
refute Trump’s views, not reacting violently or forcefully.
Instead of going to a higher authority figure and convincing them to 
shut down a rally we find disgusting, we as students should lead the fight 
in protesting against such bigotry and racism. An administrative solution 
(such as forbidding any pro-Trump language) would fail to convince any 
undecided students that pro-Trump sentiment is inherently racist and 
discriminatory. Furthermore, student-led solutions have consistently 
had longer-lasting effects, largely because students have protested and 
convinced many of their peers. The responsibility therefore falls to us as 
students, not the administration, to protest discrimination and bigotry in 
whatever form it may take both on and off our campus.
                                 — NATE WALKER
                             Staff WriterWith all-time high costs of  college and limited access to 
healthy foods, students who are required to buy meal plans 
at least deserve full autonomy over them.BY ALEXANDER CHEN // STAFF WRITERILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
WHINE  AND  
DINEOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
often, those individuals are forced to 
eat the same meal on a daily basis with 
minimal variation. 
 Upon further examination of the 
nutrition facts of some of the food 
provided by HDH, many of the foods 
aren’t as healthy as previously thought. 
Take, for example, the HDH Sausage 
Breakfast Burrito, which — according 
to UCSD’s HDH webpage — has 1428 
calories, and — according to a daily 
2,000 calorie diet — 161 percent of the 
recommended daily amount of fat, 131 
percent of saturated fat, 138 percent 
of cholesterol and 196 percent of 
sodium. While McDonald’s may have 
a reputation for serving unhealthy foods, their Big Mac has less than half 
as much fat, 50 percent of saturated 
fat, 26 percent of cholesterol and 40 
percent of sodium. Of course, HDH 
does offer alternative foods at lower 
calorie counts. However, the fact that 
McDonald’s serves healthier food 
than UCSD dining halls raises some 
concerns, as does the defense of the 
meatless breakfast burrito item given 
by HDH’s registered dietician, who 
suggested to “split it with a friend. ” 
Some of the expected larger calorie 
food items, such as the Buffalo 
Chicken Oozer and desserts, don’t 
have their nutritional facts listed on 
the HDH website and require one to 
inquire about the specific dish.
As one solution to the concerns raised above, Triton Cash could 
replace dining dollars, as they are 
accepted at dining halls and markets 
and yield 10-percent discounts for 
students. HDH already has a big 
advantage in offering incredibly 
convenient locations for students, but 
for the sake of both healthier options 
and affordability, it’s time that the 
dining halls and markets are subjected 
to external market forces. While no 
longer requiring the purchase of 
dining dollars will certainly detract 
from HDH’s revenue, it will also push 
them to improve both the pricing and 
nutrition of the food they provide. 
If  Required to Purchase Dining Plans, Students Deserve Healthier Options
▶ DINING from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
ALEXANDER  CHEN ALC129@UCSD.EDUHere    to    St a y
The C.H.E. Cafe Collective has survived in spite of a three year struggle 
with potential closure.  The Guardian takes a look at the institution’s 
colorful 50 year history and what lies in its future.
BY ALLISON KUBO // FEATURES EDITOR
NOAM LEEAD // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
CONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
On the outskirts of campus, between the theater 
district and Revelle College, lies a small yet 
elaborately painted building. With artistic and 
colorful murals, including the portrait of the Marxist icon, 
Che Guevara on its wooden walls, the building almost feels 
misplaced, and it sticks out among the modern, concrete 
architecture found throughout our campus. But this is, and 
has always been, the point of the C.H.E. Cafe, which is an 
enduring fixture on campus. The name of the Cafe itself is 
not only an homage to the Argentine revolutionary, but a 
backronym for “Cheap Healthy Eats. ” It may be small and 
eccentric, but its political and artistic presence and mere 
existence over the last 50 years is symbolic of the spirit of 
inherent tensions between students and administrators.
Jaye MacAskill, president of the Save Our Heritage 
Organization, listed the Cafe on the 2015 Most Endangered 
List of Historical Resources and is currently working with 
the C.H.E. Cafe Collective to get historical designation for 
the facility. She spoke with the UCSD Guardian about the 
Cafe’s long history of activism.
“It’s being nominated for its cultural significance, ” 
MacAskill told the Guardian. “It was a bastion on campus 
for free thought and inclusion on campus. ”
The C.H.E. Cafe’s history dates back to May 6, 1966, 
when the Revelle Times came out with an article titled 
“Coffee House Donated. ” It cited the relocation of three 
wooden buildings to the south of Revelle College. 
Chancellor Galbraith used $10,000 in registration fees to 
pay for the foundation of the building. It was designed 
by university architects and built by student volunteers. 
By the beginning of the following year, the coffee house 
opened and was shortly after named the “Coffee Hut. ” 
It was intended as the original student union. On Feb. 
13, 1970, a Triton Times advertisement read “ Associated 
Students Presents at the Coffee Hut: ‘Groovy X-rated 
Trash Flicks’ + $0.15 hot dogs.”
Meanwhile, in the 1960s, the Lumumba-Zapata 
movement was born. Named for two South American 
revolutionaries, the movement riled up conservative 
San Diegans. It called for a new college, in addition to 
the current Third College, focused on recruiting black 
and Hispanic students. The activists also demanded 
new lines of study, including colonialism, ethnic studies 
and technology. In 1969, Chancellor McGill dubbed the 
demands of Lumumba-Zapata movement an “outrageous 
document written in the cliche ridden style favored by the 
Marxian ideologists of the New Left. ”  
Unfortunately, by May 1979, the Coffee Hut had 
accumulated $53,000 in debt and was shut down. 
Chancellor McElroy supported turning the Coffee Hut 
into a Faculty Club but was stopped after student protests. 
The Coffee Hut was subsequently turned over to A.S. 
management, which passed it onto the Student Center 
Board. In November of that year, the Board decided to 
move the UCSD Guardian into the vacant buildings in 
order to make room for the new General Store. Another 
co-op still standing strong today. 
That same year, a vegetarian chain restaurant called 
“Fantastic Foods, ” located in what is now Porter’s Pub, 
went out of business. The Student Center Board gave A.S. 
a thousand dollars to fix up the kitchen in the Coffee Hut 
and start a student-run vegetarian eatery. This new “Coffee 
Hut Kitchen with Veg Restaurant, ” as the Daily Guardian 
wrote on Jan. 9, 1980, soon came to be known as the C.H.E. Cafe. In 1989, the Guardian moved back to the Old 
Student Center, following the opening of Price Center.
“It was created as an autonomous space for students 
there was always tension or often tension between the 
students and the administration over the site, ” MacAskill 
said. “The school and I think the greater San Diego 
community felt there was a lot of ‘dangerous’ ideologies 
being spread there, sort of communist types of socialist 
ideas And then it took on a complete identity and became 
the C.H.E. Cafe. ”
Throughout the 1980s, members of the co-op 
hosted punk and reggae concerts at the Cafe, openly 
expressing their counterculture tendencies. The Cafe 
tackled issues that are still divisive today and became 
the first “Safe Space” by hosting “Non-Sexist” LGBTQ 
socials. By the 1990s, the Cafe had been widely 
recognized as a hub for the hardcore punk, post punk 
and indie rock scenes. The U-shaped mural covered 
building also harbored budding activists of the Civil 
Rights movements, the Anti-Vietnam War Movement, 
the student Co-Op Movement, gender equality, 
environmentalism, vegetarianism and countless others. 
 An attempt to close the C.H.E. Cafe was made in the 
spring of 2000. The UCSD administration changed the 
locks without members’ consent, resulting in a lock-in by 
members and supporters. The university then demanded 
that the Cafe hire security guards for every show but 
was unsuccessful. It was ruled that the university did not 
have such authority under the 1993 Memorandum of 
Understanding between the co-ops and the university. 
Controversy struck the C.H.E. again when the Cafe 
chose to sponsor a web project by the BURN! Collective, 
a directory which linked to a variety of radical websites 
and mailing lists.  Among the groups included was the 
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), 
which the U.S. State Department classified as a terrorist 
organization. UCSD administration accused members 
of the Che Cafe of violating the USA Patriot Act by 
supporting FARC, an accusation that was eventually 
dismissed because the BURN! project only linked to the 
group’s website rather than hosting it.
The past three years have found the Cafe in constant 
danger of shutdown. On May 7, 2014, UCAB announced 
that the Cafe would close for a year to undergo 
renovations necessary to meet the fire marshall’s safety 
requirements, estimating that the repairs would cost 
a total of 1.5 million dollars. UCAB later removed the 
funds for these renovations from its budget on May 23, 
prompting controversy that the Collective would not be 
able to operate out of the building due to safety concerns. 
Furthermore, student support for the Cafe appeared weak; 
a survey by University Centers showed that 83 percent of 
responders “never attended shows when they visit Price 
Center or University Center, ” while 39 percent considered 
operating the Cafe as a “very low priority. ”
The Graduate Student Association voted to Decertify 
the C.H.E. Cafe Collective on May 29, 2014, terminating 
the Master Space Agreement that had been established 
in 2006 and stripping the Collective of Co-op status. 
According to the GSA, the decertification was due to the 
C.H.E. Cafe’s failure to comply with the Master Space 
Agreement by failing to pay rent.  GSA recommended that 
the Cafe temporarily relocate to the Student Center.
In spite of the disagreement with respect to safety 
regulations, the C.H.E. Cafe Collective continued to use 
the building during Fall 2014 and Winter 2015.  UCSD 
administration gave the C.H.E. Cafe an order to vacate the 
building by March 14, changed to March 17. The eviction 
notice sparked heated protests from the student body and, 
in defiance, supporters of the Cafe began an around-the-
clock occupation of the building. The university was legally 
required to enforce the eviction within 180 days of March 
17, an action which it never followed through with.
The occupation continued through the hottest months 
of summer. In July, Chancellor Khosla became involved 
in negotiations marking a significant turning point for 
the “Save the C.H.E. ” movement. Finally, in September 
2015, the two groups came to an agreement to continue 
lease negotiations and for the university to pay for a new 
sprinkler system, tempered glass windows and a better 
evacuation path. 
“ A loud and overwhelming message of ‘Save the C.H.E’ 
from current students, alumni and community members, ’ came in various forms, ” the C.H.E. Collective said in a 
statement to the UCSD Guardian. “It included a record-
breaking 24/7 occupation of the threatened space lasting 
120 days, artist and alumni boycotts of the university, 
marches [and] rallies. ”
In response to student protests, A.S. Council and the 
GSA passed a resolution that demanded student inclusion 
on the fate of the facility and its history. According to 
GSA records, the C.H.E. Collective Campus Integration 
Committee is designed to “assist the C.H.E Collective with 
the interim reintegration period, defined as starting from 
the beginning of Fall 2015 and concluding at the end of 
Spring 2016. ” The committee focused on developing data 
about student involvement and interest in the C.H.E Cafe 
while facilitating events and activism of the Collective. 
While negotiations continue, C4 will present the collected 
student metrics to A.S. Council, UCSD administration, 
and the GSA for each quarter. 
Over the past year, the committee has focused on 
gathering data about student involvement and interest in 
the C.H.E. Cafe while facilitating events and the activism 
of the Collective. As negotiations continue, the Committee 
will continue to present the collected student metrics to 
A.S. Council, UCSD administration and the GSA for each 
quarter. The Committee report for Fall 2015 noted that 
“the C.H.E Collective has had a stronger community focus 
than student focus, with few students attending events 
and fewer actively participating in the collective. In the 
opinion of the committee, before additional money is spent 
on maintenance or renovation of the facility, the C.H.E 
Collective should demonstrate a willingness and ability to 
engage the student population of UCSD. ”
In the following months the C.H.E Collective 
underwent a subtle schism, forming two parts: the 
Collective and the C.H.E Cafe Support network. Raquel 
Calderon, a senior Muir College student and core member 
of the collective, explained the duties of the two groups to 
the Guardian. According to Calderon the CCSN is mainly 
alumni who, as the name implies, support the collective 
at hearings, press events, and concerts. The Collective 
is formed of students and is the main force on campus 
representing the historic cafe. 
“A s  f a r  a s  I  k n o w,  t h e r e’s  i s n’ t  r e a l l y  a  s t r i c t  d e fin i t i o n  a s  
to what makes one a collective member and I think that’s 
because we try to maintain openness; our weekly meetings 
are open to the public, ” Calderon said. “The CCSN has 
done a good amount to be supportive, showing up to our 
court hearings, speaking to the media about why they 
support the C.H.E. Cafe, and working on Historical Site 
Designation for the C.H.E... There are really two different 
ways to participate in supporting the C.H.E. ”
Currently the C.H.E. Cafe and the other co-ops, whose 
leases expire in June, are negotiating with the administrator 
to renew these agreements. Andrea Carter, the current 
lawyer representing the Cafe, informed the Guardian that 
they are amicably working with administration to find 
a deal before the leases end for Groundwork Books, the 
General Store and the Food Co-Op. However, the Cafe 
remains without an agreement for the intervening time.
“The C.H.E. Cafe, even before negotiations began, 
asked for an interim agreement that would give them some 
security while negotiating and so far the University has 
been unresponsive, ” Carter told the Guardian. “Despite 
this, we have great hope and optimism that we will finally 
emerge with a new and acceptable lease for all four co-ops. 
The university does seem very motivated to ink a deal by 
or before June. ”
According to Calderon, once the new lease is approved, 
the Collective aims to continue physical improvements to 
the facility over the summer such as a rehaul of the kitchen 
and Life Safety repairs. As mediated negotiations between 
administrator, A.S. Council, GSA and the co-ops struggle 
on, Calderon emphasizes that the C.H.E. Cafe is a vital part 
of not only UCSD’s history but of UCSD’s future. 
“If anything, I would hope that it would come to 
be understood that the C.H.E. Cafe provides value to 
students by being the volunteer-run, empowering space 
that it is and on that, councils would have faith that we are 
representing student interests, ” Calderon said.
photo by Michelle Louie/ UCSD Guardian     photo by Cory Wong/ UCSD Guardian
photo by Daniel Roberto/ UCSD Guardian
Allison  kubo   akubo@uCsd.edu      READER CAN CONTACTphoto by Daniel Roberto/ UCSD Guardian8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Although UCSD is a campus that some may see as 
lacking diversity, university faculty has put a lot of effort 
into promoting an inclusive campus environment. On 
Thursday, March 3, UCSD hosted its 21st Annual Equal 
Opportunity/Affirmative Action and Diversity Awards 
Ceremony. Among the award recipients was the UC San 
Diego Intercollegiate Athletics Department, which was 
previously honored by the Minority Opportunities Athletic 
Association for its efforts in diversity and inclusion.
At the ceremony, the chancellor praised the athletics 
department for its commitment to creating and promoting 
programs of outreach both for student athletes and for 
faculty. Earl Edwards, director of athletics at UCSD, 
emphasized in a video message aired at the ceremony that 
the award is representative of the athletic department’s 
recent push toward diversity.
“The award fits in well with what we are trying to do 
at the athletic department. Diversity and inclusion is a big 
part of who we are, ” Edwards said. “We will continue with 
our athletes to not only help with the athletic department 
but also with the other constituents of our campus. We 
want to make sure that we are the champions of diversity 
and inclusion. ”
Katie McGann, the associate athletics director for 
compliance and student services, is the one behind many 
of these initiatives and went into more detail as to what 
the department does in terms of outreach to different 
communities, on and off campus.
“The part that I’m most proud is that as a department 
we’re really trying to take, as Earl Edwards mentioned, a 
systematic approach, ” McGann told the UCSD Guardian. 
“We’re really hoping that we as administrators and as 
leaders are modeling the type of culture we want to see 
with our student athletes. Also, we met with the five 
campus community centers’ directors and [are] really 
taking it to another level in terms of earning our piece 
of the pie and contributing in creating the culture for the 
campus community at large. ”
McGann also highlighted the efforts made in the 
department to hold everyone, from directors to athletes 
as well as staff members, to the same standards and level 
of involvement in the programs. The faculty, for example, 
undergo a training program in order to be better prepared 
to apply what McGann calls the “systematic approach, ” 
which is a way of developing a unified process to face 
diversity and inclusion issues. The systematic approach 
within the athletics department means better education 
of the student athletes over issues dealing with diversity 
and inclusion, reporting of these issues and involvement 
in the community.
“This being the first year of this systematic approach, 
we are really taking steps to make sure that the message is 
being conveyed with the student-athletes, ” McGann said. 
“We’re doing a good job of communicating that within our 
own athletic department administratively and coaching 
staff and making sure that we get it to the next step and including student-athletes in that conversation. ”
With the faculty heavily backing the initiatives, the 
department’s commitment has also drawn support from 
student-athletes who are a part of the program. The 
diversity and inclusion initiative led to the creation of a 
Diversity and Inclusion Committee, comprised of staff and 
student-athlete representatives. This committee includes 
senior fencer Drew Dickinson, junior long jumper Derek 
Van De Streek and senior volleyball player Heidi Sierks. 
Among the issues the committee discusses is the sexual 
assault reporting process, which has changed in part 
thanks to input by student-athletes.
In order to strengthen the student community as a 
whole, this committee has a mission of outreach toward 
the five campus community centers involved in Equity, 
Diversity and Inclusion: LGBT Resource Center, Raza 
Resource Centro, Cross-Cultural Center, Black Resource 
Center and Women’s Center. Students also receive a course 
on leadership dealing with diversity, led by Dr. Rhonda 
Hackshaw from Counseling and Psychological Services, 
who teaches student-athletes about the different aspects 
of diversity, race and gender. Dickinson also talked about 
his leadership role on the Triton Athletes Council where 
he leads the Diversity and Inclusion committee.
“Last year the NCAA held [its] diversity conference 
here in La Jolla, and I was fortunate enough to attend 
that — I guess it really shaped me, and I really wanted to 
participate in this cause, ” Dickinson said. “I attended two 
conferences: One of them was on sexual assault, and it was 
really eye-opening, particularly sexual assault in athletics, 
as well as one conference prepping African-American 
athletes in high school for college. ”
Dickinson will no longer be on campus in the coming 
years to see the advancements of the initiative. But with 
the time that he has left, he will continue to push for 
further actions by the committee and student-athletes.
“The next step would be to get every single team 
involved in terms of having them do something to 
contribute to diversity whether that’s on campus or in 
the community as a whole, ” Dickinson said. “I think we 
can add on to the community service that we already 
do during the year, like include diversity- and inclusion-
oriented community service. It wouldn’t just get the 
student leaders involved in these meetings but every single 
student-athlete. It would help expose UCSD. ” 
According to McGann, the department looks to 
continue its outreach efforts in the greater San Diego area.
“It’s critical to what we do, and it’s a big core value 
for us in athletics, ” McGann said. “The student athletes 
know that we expect them to be leaders on their teams but 
also in the UCSD community and the greater San Diego 
community as well. ”
A Different 
Kind of 
Accolade
UCSD’s Intercollegiate Athletics Department 
recently won an award for promoting diversity 
and inclusion on campus.  The UCSD 
Guardian takes a look at the initiative the 
Athletics Department has taken within the last 
year to merit this recognition.
Marcus Thuillier   Mthuilli@uCsd.edu      READER CAN CONTACTby Marcus Thuillier  // Contributing Writer
art by Alex LiangCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 HLP FILM FESTIVAL PRESENTS “3 IDIOTS”
MUIR WOODS COFFEE HOUSETHURSDAY, APR 14  • 6pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 11 - APR 172016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 4.13 TUE 4.12
11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
1pm
LEARNING TO MANAGE RISKY SITUATIONS - 
ALCOHOL, DRUGS AND YOUR PEERS- EARL 
WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LVL 3
Are you "that friend" who takes care of everyone 
when you all go out? Do you want to know a BIT more 
when sticky situations come up? If you answered yes, 
then you want to participate in this fun interactive 
training on alcohol education and bystander 
intervention. Become a "Floatie" and learn some new 
ways for keeping friends afloat at parties.
1pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY: HOW TO CREATE AND USE 
A $PENDING PLAN FOR LIFE - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Are you using credit cards to cover your monthly 
expenses? Are you able to pay your bills on time? 
Learn how to budget and spend wisely to gain control 
over your finances and avoid costly Money Potholes! 
Hosted by USE Credit Union and the Financial Aid & 
Scholarships Office.
FRI4.15
10am
FITNESS ZONE: BARRE FIT- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
A full body workout fusing the best elements of 
ballet, pilates, muscle toning and conditioning. 
11am
ILEAD WORKSHOP: WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP: 
BREAKING THROUGH THE GLASS CEILING- 
BEAR ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 2
Did you know that, on average, women only earn 
79% of the wages that men earn for the same 
work? In this workshop, participants will learn 
about the patriarchal structures that affect women 
in the workforce and the stereotypes about female 
leaders that can hinder their advancements. 
Participants will also learn about ways to 
overcome these barriers and break through the 
glass ceiling. Presented by Marissa Barber, Peer 
Educator, CSI - Communication and Leadership 
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience!SUN 4.17
11am
UCSD BASEBALL VS. SF STATE- TRITON 
BALLPARK
Watch as UCSD Baseball takes on SF State.
12pm
BIOTECHATHALON- FORUM, PC EAST
The Biotechathlon is a two-day competition for UCSD 
students, held on April 16-17. Teams of students will 
develop a solution to a biotechnology 
industry-related problem, and present their solutions 
in front of a panel of judges. Students will develop 
skills in critical thinking, problem solving, 
professionalism and interdisciplinary collaboration, 
all of which are critical skills for those looking into 
professional schools like Medical School, Business 
School, various other science-related schools and 
other fields of graduate studies! 10am
FITNESS ZONE: CORE FIT- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
A strong body starts with a strong core. Improve 
your overall fitness and performance by training 
your abs, back, chest and hips. This 30min class is a 
great combo with a cardio workout, or as a bundle 
with Bootcamp. Get strong, get fit, get core fit! 
Questions?
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
11am
ILEAD WORKSHOP: MANAGING YOUR 
MINUTES: THE HOW TO'S OF TIME 
MANAGEMENT- EARL WARREN COLLEGE RM, 
PC WEST, LVL 3
Learn to manage your time effectively by evaluating 
your current time management techniques & by 
building skills in goal-setting, prioritization, & more! 
Presented by Erica Okamura, Program Director, 
Health Promotion Services
7:30pm
YOU AT THE LOFT- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Do you have a talent you want the world to see? 
Come to You at the Loft and share it with us! Don't 
have a talent but want to watch others perform? 
Come on by and enjoy some great performances. If 
you're interested in performing, sign up 
here:http://goo.gl/forms/7sttcjrE4o! Sign up by April 
8th to guarantee your spot! We welcome all 
performances including music, comedy, spoken 
word, rants, and everything else! MON 4.11
11am
ART & SOUL: PLAYDOUGH AND CLAY CRITTERS- 
THE ZONE
Relive those childhood memories--come make some 
clay and playdough creations! Workshops are free; all 
supplies and materials provided. Space is limited and is 
first come, first served.
2pm
UCSD MEN'S TENNIS VS. GEORGETOWN 
UNIVERSITY- NORTHVIEW TENNIS COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Men's Tennis takes on 
Georgetown.
3:30pm
READY, SET, COMMUNICATE- BEAR ROOM, PRICE 
CENTER WEST, LEVEL 2
Come maximize your communication skills through 
music and arts and crafts. Your CSI Communication and 
Leadership Peer Educators will help you take your 
interpersonal and public speaking skills to the next 
level. Be prepared to mingle with new people and learn 
more about professional communication while having 
fun! Presented by Peer Educators, Center for Student 
Involvement - Communication & Leadership use CSI 
logo
5pm
ILEAD WORKSHOP: AIKIDO FOR CONFLICT 
PREVENTION- EARL WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC 
WEST, LEVEL 3
Must be registered in the iLEAD program to attend: In 
this workshop students will learn about understanding 
conflict, how it happens, and preventative strategies to 
manage disputes. Students will learn to transform 
conflict from any area of your life; roommates, work, 
family, relationships into a life learning opportunity. They 
will also learn how perception plays a role in conflict 
and in resolution. Presented by Yvette Durazo, Project 
Coordinator, School of PharmacySAT 4.16
9:30am
KICK THE BUTTS- PC PLAZA
Bring your friends and come join the Student Health 
Advocates in our Annual Butt Clean-up while 
munching on some free snacks. There will also be 
free sun-god says T-shirts given to the first 100 
registrants. Register at http://goo.gl/forms/Ql7Sp5llix
1:05pm
UCSD RELAY FOR LIFE 2016- TRITON TRACK 
AND FIELD
Fight back against cancer at Relay For Life! Register: 
www.relayforlife.org/ucsandiegoca This is a party with 
a purpose! This 18-hr event American Cancer 
Society's signature fundraiser, and is the biggest 
cancer fundraiser in the world! At Relay, participants 
walk the track, play games, eat, and raise awareness 
for cancer education, research, advocacy, and 
outreach. You can form or join a team, fundraise, 
and/or donate. Not only will you celebrate the lives of 
those who have passed away, but you'll also make a 
difference in the lives of those being diagnosed. Let's 
cuck fancer!THU 4.14
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance. Workshop led by: 
Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES- THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
6pm
ACTIVIST BURNOUT WORKSHOP SERIES- 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Activist burnout and the romanticization/glorification 
of "busy" is prevalent in Community/student activist 
spaces here at UCSD. It can be easy to get caught up 
in stress and difficult habits as a 
student-activist/organizer having to deal with the 
fast-paced quarter system and rigor of the institution. 
With CAPS Post-doc Ginger Armas (also a 1st 
generation Pilipina American), this 3-part series aims 
to share knowledge about activist burnout, 
mindfulness, and mental and emotional retention. 
Also... FREE FOOD, Y'ALL! =)
6pm
HLP FILM FESTIVAL PRESENTS - MUIR WOODS 
COFFEE HOUSE
You are invited to join us as the Heritage Language 
Program (HLP) presents the Indian film "3 idiots" to 
kick off the revamped HLP Film Festival!
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Sewing line
 5 A/C figures
 9 To the most extreme degree
 14 Furthermore
 15 Birthplace of Camembert
 16 Main artery
 17 Kenny Loggins hit
 19 Feel rapture
 20 Deprive of strength
 21 Fit in
 22 Handyman’s space
 24 Literary monogram
 25 Queen of the fairies
 28 Negative votes
 29 Barroom fight
 31 Lunch locales 
 33 Alternative to a T-top
 36 Gator cousin
 37 Le Mans lasses: abbr.
 39 Top-rated
 40 Chef’s reading
 42 Newton’s fruit?
 43 Fizzling out
 44 Artist’s rep.
 46 Part of CBS
 47 Shortened bk.
 49 Make light of
 52 Freetown moola
 54 Formal written defense
 58 Hatch eggs
 59 Handsomeness
 60 MetLife rival
 61 Different
 62 Tough journey
 63 Stuffy-sounding
 64 Twixt 12 and 20
 65 Legis. meetingDown
 1 Secure
 2 Carolina university
 3 From
 4 Church choral work
 5 Child’s injury
 6 Ogre associates
 7 Family of Indy winners
 8 I told you so!
 9 First, second or third infielder
 10 Mournful wail
 11 Cereal brand
 12 Egyptian symbols
 13 Extent
 18 Spinks and Ames
 21 Julius or Guy of golf
 23 Hautboy
 25 1700 in letters
 26 Saab model
 27 Expectorant source
 30 Swaddle
 32 That’s gross! 
 33 Jan. honoree
 34 Nothing but
 35 Service charges
 37 Pre-stereo recordings
 38 Business icon
 41 Two-footed
 42 Island ring
 44 Place side by side
 45 Former Mets pitcher
 47 Composer Berg
 48 Suburb of Cleveland
 50 Hawaiian word for foreign
 51 Owl calls
 53 Nine: pref.
 55 Wound from a bullfight
 56 Eisenhower and Turner
 57 Pops a question
 59 UnderstandBIKES
Trek Tandem Double Cross T100 - $300. Has 
some upgraded components. Needs new 
family. Listing ID: 252175463 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
20 inch BMX Bike - $100. Like-new con -
dition. Normal use. Chain is original. 
Replacement available for $20. Listing ID: 
252175461 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationHARO Mountain Bike - $450. HARO 26” 
mountain bike. Eight speed, three gears, 
disk brakes, front shock. Listing ID: 
252175456 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Lenovo Flex 2-in-1 - $245. 4GB RAM 
Windows 10 500 GB hard drive tablet, 
stand and regular usage modes. Listing ID: 
252175528 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Panasonic 3D TV - $640. Will included tele -
vision, remotes, one pair of 3D glasses, one 
HDMI cable, WiFi-enabled Blu Ray player. 
Listing ID: 252175511 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Lifeproof iPad Mini 2 and 3 Case - $40. 
Lifeproof case for iPad. Works with iPad 
Mini 2 and 3. Listing ID: 252175522 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FURNITURE
Sofa Sleeper - $300. Ashley leather queen 
size bed. Like-new condition. Buyer must 
be able to move it themselves from one-
level home. Listing ID: 252175554 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationIKEA Hanging Chair - $20.Gray color 
with red inflatable cushion. Listing ID: 
252175551 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Two End Tables - $150. Selling two end 
tables. Terrific condition other than a few 
small scratches (they were floor models). 
Paid $400 for the pair. Listing ID: 252175546 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Poster Printing 
Color CopIES
Print PDF Files
 
CAL COPY  Course Reader Printing 
Post O ffice • USPS • FedEx  
DHL International  
858-452-9949
www.calcopy.com(across RockBottom)
what do you
need?
let ushelp.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
LOST
-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabies
follow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitters #sgfbabiesHarbor baby sun god with silver-gray fur.
Answers to the name of “Tiffany”. 
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 2 years old. 
Loves music and beary cute things. Last seen
basking in the sun at La Jolla Cove.  
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
10am–12pm9:30am–
2:30pm9:30am–
2:30pm10am–12pm 10am–12pmSPRING HOURS OF OPERATION:The UCSD men’s volleyball team 
faced a tough loss at RIMAC Arena 
this past Friday night. It hosted, and 
was swept in straight sets by, fifth-
ranked Cal State Long Beach in a 
Mountain Paci fic Sports Federation 
men’s volleyball action.
After this loss, UCSD fell down 
to 5–22 overall rank and 0–21 in 
MPSF rankings. Cal State Long 
Beach, on the other hand, improved 
to an even better record of 22–6 
overall and 16–5 in MPSF. Cal State 
Long Beach hosted the Tritons back 
in February, a match that the Tritons 
lost, and continued to win steadily 
over the past months to now be 
tied for third in the MPSF rankings. 
They have also already clinched a 
MPSF tournament berth. 
Friday’s match was over a fter the 
first three sets, with Cal State Long 
Beach not pulling any stops and 
winning all three initial sets. They 
ended in similar fashion and the final 
scores were 25–18, 25–16 and 25–17. 
The UCSD starters put in the work 
despite what the final count might 
imply, as they were able to get all of 
their 27 kills. Junior outside hitter 
Ian Colbert and sophomore opposite 
Tanner Sy ftestad were able to bring 
home seven kills apiece themselves. 
Syftestad was also able to produce a 
pair of serving aces for the team along 
with three solid blocks. Sophomore 
setter Milosh Stojcic, who hasn’t 
started since February, started and 
delivered the team 15 assists and 
two digs while senior libero Tanner Howard led the team with eight digs 
himself. Senior outside hitter Kirill 
Rudenko also had a decent scoresheet 
for the night with four kills, an ace, 
five digs, a solo block, a block assist 
and two set assists. 
The first opening set was probably 
the closest the Tritons got to winning a 
set. Initially it seemed that either team 
could win the set, with there being 
seven tie scores and two separate lead 
changes during the course of the set. 
The set, if divided into two di fferent 
stages, can be represented with the 
Tritons leading the opening stage and 
with the 49ers coming through and 
leading the closing stage. The Tritons 
couldn’t tie up the game during the 
second stage with the 49ers ending 
the set ahead. 
Originally starting o ff the set 
3–2, the Tritons were down but 
came o ff a 4–0 run to make it a 
3–6 match as Sy ftestad scored a kill 
and served three straight points 
which gave them the advantage they 
wanted. The first two points were 
scored by a pair of Colbert kills 
from Stojcic. The 49ers were not to 
be outdone as they tied up the set 
once more with their own 3–0 run. 
After being tied 8–8 for a while, 
UCSD went on a scoring spree, 
scoring four points and also playing 
great defense. This however, couldn’t 
stop the inevitable. The 49ers slowly 
but steadily caught back up to the 
Tritons and eventually took the reins 
of the set and won in entirety. 
The next set didn’t start o ff any 
better for the Tritons, as they had to 
take an early timeout in the face of a 
5–0 run from the 49ers. Though this timeout rejuvenated the team and 
they scored the next five points out 
the total six, the 49ers just wouldn’t 
let their lead go as they scored four 
more points to distance themselves 
to 10–5. The Tritons weren’t able to 
tie the score and eventually lost the 
set as well. The third set started o ff very 
heated as the Tritons felt a primal 
need to win, knowing that if they 
didn’t they would lose the game 
overall; it was a fight for survival. 
They held on until it became a 
4–4 tie match. However, they just 
couldn’t hold back the 49ers, who went on multiple scoring streaks to 
eventually win it all. 
The Tritons ended their regular-
season campaign this weekend and will 
be looking forward to the next season.M. VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Sweep Holy Names University in Straight Sets at Home
UCSD snaps eight game losing streak with win over the Hawks, look forward to the No. 4 ranked Stanford Cardinal next at RIMAC Arena.
Readers can contact
dev  jain        BY  d e v  j a i n
associate sports editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITORS
MARCUS  THUILLIER  &  DEV  JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 11, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
SOFTBALL
MEN'S 
VOLLEYBALLUCSD
UCSD
UCSDSF State
Long Beach State
CSU Northridge0  6
18 16 17
23 18 172  5
25 25 25
25 25 25
UCSD’s softball team took to the road and split a doubleheader 
against San Francisco State on Friday afternoon. As part of a four-
game series in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, 
the Tritons, now 15–11, put up a hard fight against an equally 
challenging Gators team, now 16–10. UCSD lost game one on a 
score of 2–0 but demonstrated its prowess when it rallied back in 
game two for a 6–5 win. 
Game One — San Francisco State 2, UCSD 0
UCSD’s offense was unable to get the ball rolling in the 
opening series game against San Francisco State. The Tritons 
could not capitalize on several runners in scoring position and 
the Gators’ few errors. 
Senior starting pitcher Lexi Edwards took the loss while 
exhibiting solid pitching that spanned six innings. While 
facing a total of 24 batters, Edwards gave up two runs and 
struck out three. 
Gators’ junior pitcher Megan Clark got the complete game 
shutout win. She struck out four while only allowing two hits 
and a walk. 
The Tritons had their first opportunity to score in the third 
inning. With two outs, freshman utility player Darian Van 
Der Maaten reached base on an error and then stole second. 
Sophomore outfielder Kelsi Maday then walked. Together, Van 
Der Maaten and Maday made a double steal and put two runners 
on second and third in scoring position. Senior outfielder Taylor 
Abeyta, with a batting average of 0.296, then struck out and 
ended the inning. 
A similar situation arose during the fifth inning. With 
runners on second and third, Maday couldn’t bring home Van 
Der Maaten or sophomore second-baseman Kendall Baker. 
Gators’ junior infielder Kayli Shaw hit a solo home run in the fourth inning to give San Francisco State its first run while 
redshirt freshman outfielder Alexis Mattos scored from first on 
senior infielder Jennifer Lewis’s one-out double at the bottom of 
the fifth.
With only two hits coming from Abeyta and Baker, UCSD 
ended the game with its fourth shutout of the season.
Game Two — UCSD 6, San Francisco State 5
UCSD bounced back to life in the second game after being 
previously shut out against San Francisco State. Although the 
team spent most of its time catching up after the Gators started 
with a 4–1 lead, the Tritons’ efforts were not in vain. 
UCSD came out aggressively and fired first with Maday 
doubling and then scoring off of sophomore catcher Lauren 
Sanders’ one out single. 
Unfortunately, UCSD’s freshman starting pitcher Lauren 
Brown then gave the opposing San Francisco State an early 
lead. After allowing an RBI single, a three-run homer and a solo 
shot, Brown was replaced in the second inning by senior pitcher 
Hannah Duarte. By then, the Gators had a comfortable 5–1 lead.
The Tritons responded in the third inning with two runs. 
After Maday took first from a hit by pitch, she advanced to 
second from Abeyta’s sacrifice bunt. The next batter, freshman 
shortstop Maddy Lewis, doubled and brought home Maday. 
Lewis then scored off of senior shortstop McKenna Clewett’s one 
out single. 
In the fifth inning, UCSD tied the game through aggressive 
hits, sacrifices and errors. Abeyta hit a single and advanced 
to second via Lewis’ sacrifice bunt. Sanders would then single 
and bring runners at the corners. Speedy sophomore outfielder 
Kendall Woken pinch ran for Sanders and stole second while 
sophomore first-basemen Sam Glantz hit a sacrifice fly and 
brought home Abeyta. With Clewett at bat, Woken stole third 
and scored home on a wild pitch. The score was now tied at 
five-all. The Tritons took the lead 6–5 in the seventh inning, after 
Lewis singled and the Gators committed several crucial errors. 
Their win was solidified after the last Gators’ batter lined out to 
pitcher Edwards.
UCSD took game two under its control through aggressive 
appearances at bat and taking advantage of Gator errors. Pitchers 
Duarte and Edwards also demonstrated tremendous command 
by keeping the Gators to five runs throughout the rest of the 
game, getting the come-from-behind win for the Tritons. SOFTBALL
Softball Splits CCAA Four-Game Series Against San Francisco State.
Tritons push season record to 15–11, losing first game 0–2 and clinching the second game at a hard-earned 5–6 against the Gators.
BY  A n t h o n y  T z e n g
sTAFF WRITER
Readers can contact
Anthony Tzeng        
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
Tritons Fall to Cal 
State San Marcos 
Slow start dooms UCSD as 
they can not make up an 
18 point defecit at the half.
Written by Alex Wu // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee 
A select few athletes from the UCSD Track and 
Field team traveled to the home of their Pac-12 
conference a ffiliate, Arizona State University, this 
past weekend to compete in the two-day Sun Angel Classic. 
The competition proved to be a tough task throughout the 
events with the likes of Air Force, Notre Dame, BYU and 
Texas A&M among other Division-I schools competing. 
Day One  
Junior Chrissi Carr was the sole member of the UCSD 
Track and Field team participating in the first day of the 
competition, finishing tied for 10th place in the open pole 
vault competition.
Carr had a positive start to the event when she cleared the 
opening height of 11’9.75. ” However, she found it di fficult 
to get over the next height of 12’3.75” in the three attempts 
allotted to her.  
Day Two
The 4x100 relay team made up of Andrew Dirks, Justin Hunter, Emmanuel Elijah and Paul Doan had the best UCSD 
performance on the day with a second-place finish in 41.09. 
While in the men’s javelin, the three Triton representatives, 
Anthony Capitulo (204’3”), Travis Vandegri ff (200’5”) and 
Dan Golubovic (200’5”) finished seventh, eighth and ninth, 
respectively. Vandegri ff and Golubovic both performed 
their best throws as they continue to improve their own 
provisional quali fiers.
In the triple jump event, Matt Bowen had to settle with 
eighth place as he produced a jump of 48’ .
Doan, in his second event of the day, ran a 21.68 to take 
12th place in the 200m even.
Jared Senese took 12th place while running a seasonal-
best time of 1:53.19 in the 800m race. 
“We took a select group to the (Sun Angel Classic), ” Head 
Coach Tony Salerno told UCSD Athletics. “ They competed 
well against some of the top [Division-I] programs in the 
nation. ” 
Readers can contact
Alex  Wu     
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Tennis
W.Tennis
M.Volleyball
Softball
W.Basketball2/25
2/25
2/25
2/26
2/26VS Western New Mexico
VS Western New Mexico
VS Stanford
VS Chico State 
VS San Francisco State