VOLUME 49, ISSUE 35   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 22, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SUN GOD 2016:
ASCE INTERVIEW 
THE UCSD GUARDIAN SAT 
DOWN WITH ASCE TO TALK 
ABOUT THE UPCOMING SUN 
GOD FESTIVAL. READ THE 
EXCLUSIVE Q&A TO HEAR 
WHAT CHANGES TO EXPECT 
THIS YEAR. 
GOVERNMENT  NEGLECT
W. BASKETBALL WINSLEAD   POISONING   IN  THE  u.S.
extends streak to  eight OPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 74 L 58TUESDAY
H 72 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 73 L 57THURSDAY
H 71 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP 
TO BEING A MILLENNIAL IS TO 
CONSTANTLY DISAPPOINT THE 
OLDER GENERATIONS. AN EASY 
WAY TO DO THIS IS TO SIMPLY 
MOVE BACK IN WITH YOUR 
PARENTS WHILE YOU TRY NOT 
TO DROWN IN YOUR STUDENT 
DEBT.”
- ACT YOUR AGE
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIVER DISEASE  ................ 2
VALENTINE’S DAY  ........... 4
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER/ GUARDIAN
Congressman Scott Peters 
(D-Calif.) announced his new 
proposal for student loan payment at 
the first of multiple forums held last 
week about college affordability. The 
proposal would cap interest on all 
subsidized student loans to 4 percent, 
securing it at a number lower than it 
currently is at 4.3 percent.
“Four percent does give the 
federal government a little bit of a 
cushion, because they’ll argue that 
there’s administrative costs, ” Peters 
said at the conference in UCSD’s Bear 
Room. “But there shouldn’t be loans 
at 5, 6, 7 or 8 percent, which just 
doesn’t make any sense. It’s making 
students a profit center — which 
is the wrong thing to do — and it’s 
a bad policy when we’re trying to 
educate people to participate in the high-education economy. ”
The next steps for the proposal 
— which has no certain date to set 
effect — entail having the proposal 
voted on, having co-sponsors and 
going through negotiations.
“Our goal now is to start to chalk 
up co-sponsors and see if we can 
develop some support, ” Peters said. 
“Then we have to get a score of what 
the cost is, and then we’ d love to get 
it through the Committee and get a 
vote on it. ”
The proposal is not the first of 
Peters’ on the subject of college 
affordability. He also penned 
the Student Loan Repayment 
Assistance Act, which attempts to 
ease the financial burden on student 
employees by offering businesses 
and employers a tax break for 
matching student employee’s loan 
repayment. 
It also comes after efforts from Republican congressional members 
to further increase interest rates 
on student loans, which Peters 
described in the conference. 
“We had a fight in Congress 
where we fought the Republican 
proposal to allow student loan rates 
on subsidized loans to double from 
3.4 to 6.8 percent, ” Peters said. “We 
were able, with President Obama’s 
help, to negotiate a lower increase, 
but the rates are still too high 
and don’t make any sense from a 
strategic perspective”
Peters’ approach to college 
affordability differs from those like 
Bernie Sanders’ College for All plan 
— which calls for free tuition — 
because it focuses on making loans 
more affordable rather than making 
college free.
“Free stuff is abused, ” Peters said. University 
to Establish 
Nonbinary 
RestroomsUC SYSTEM
The University of California 
will convert 120 single-stall 
restrooms across its ten 
campuses by March 1.
BY   L I SA   C H I K
UC facilities offices will convert 
all single-stall restrooms in 
UC-owned buildings into gender-
inclusive spaces by March 1. UC 
President Janet Napolitano adopted 
this measure, along with other 
efforts, in order to provide a more 
inclusive environment for LGBTQ 
students, staff and faculty.
UCSD Queer and Trans People of 
Color Access Coordinator Jacqueline 
Koch told the UCSD Guardian that 
gender-neutral facilities would 
minimize the harassment, including 
physical violence and name-calling, 
that transgender and gender-
nonconforming people face when 
using the restroom.
“LGBTQ people [are often] stared 
at, asked if they are in the wrong 
bathroom and hear comments like, 
‘Why is a man/woman in a men’s/
women’s bathroom?’” Koch said. 
“Not everyone fits into the gender 
binary, so when nonbinary folks go 
to use a restroom, they often … end 
up going to the restrooms that they 
think will lead to the least amount of 
harassment. ”
UCSD Counseling and 
Psychological Services Wellness 
Peer Educator Marlee Kongthong 
commented on the benefits of 
gender-neutral restrooms for people 
who do follow the gender binary.
“Not only is it mindful of 
those who are transitioning or 
uncomfortable with their gender, 
but it allows parents and caregivers 
to attend to children who may 
identify as a different gender than 
them, as well as folks who have 
caregivers or personal attendants to 
assist with their needs, ” Kongthong 
told the Guardian.
Over 90 UCSD-associated 
locations, many with multiple single-
stall restrooms, are gender-neutral. 
Newly constructed or renovated 
buildings as of last July also provide 
at least one gender-inclusive 
restroom on each floor where 
restrooms are required or provided. 
The mandatory sign on the door is 
a triangle within a circle, without 
gender pictograms, and the term 
“Restroom” on the sign is optional. 
Gender-inclusive changing rooms, 
locker rooms and showers are also 
included for athletic facilities and 
other appropriate locations.
Director of the UCSD LGBT 
Resource Center Shaun Travers 
explained that students have 
identified gender-inclusive restrooms 
as a priority on-campus, adding UCSD to Build New Cafe on 
Library’s Second Floor
Geisel Library is set to open a new cafe this 
spring as part of the Geisel Library Revitalization 
Initiative, the University Office of the Librarian 
announced Thursday on their website. Named after the 
GLRI’s primary donor, Audrey Geisel, Audrey’s Cafe will 
be situated on the second floor East Wing.
The construction of the cafe is expected to be 
finalized mid-to-late May and opened to the public 
sometime thereafter.  
According to Brian Schottlaender, The Audrey Geisel 
University Librarian, building the cafe was a practical 
choice, and it will increase the friendly atmosphere found 
in Geisel. 
“It really makes perfect sense, given that hundreds of 
students and other patrons are here studying, attending 
a lecture or a reading, or some other event, much of the 
time, ” Schottlaender told the UCSD Guardian. “Having a 
cafe on the premises builds on the sense of community 
that already exists here. ” 
Initially, Audrey’s Cafe will be open between 7:30 a.m. 
to 10 p.m. from Monday to Thursday and have shorter hours over the weekend. During finals week, however, the 
vendor will stay open until midnight.
Furthermore, UCSD’s Sports Facilities will manage the 
shop. Despite being run by a campus department, the cafe 
will only accept Triton cash, not dining dollars.
In addition to Sports Facilities, Cafe Virtuoso, a local, 
independent roaster, and Bread & Cie, a San Diego bakery 
and cafe, will assist Audrey’s Cafe by stocking the cafe with 
food and drinks.
This involvement of local businesses is what sets the 
cafe apart from other on-campus coffee spots, Director 
of Sports Facilities Planning and Management Don 
Chadwick explained to the Guardian. 
“[Audrey’s Cafe] will be quite a bit different [from 
Peet’s and Starbucks] because it will not have outside 
brand recognition, ” Chadwick said. “In addition to that, it 
has a much more local feel to it. ” 
Chadwick also noted that the coffee shop will be 
largely staffed by UCSD students, creating a number of 
job opportunities on campus. 
“We are going to be starting the operation with B y   LAUREN  HOL T      GEISEL LIBRARY
Congressman Reveals Student Loan Proposal
Rep. Scott Peters plan, announced at UCSD, would cap interest rates at four percent.See CAFE , page 2
CAMPUS
BY   Q U I N N   P I E P E R
See RESTROOMS , page 3 See PETERS , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! 
CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
To set up an interview please 
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com  
or call Stefanie at 516-626-7668. Interviews will be held on 
Friday, February 26th 
10:00 AM – 4:00 PM at 
the Career Services Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Sa$ha is a wonderful singer at “Downtown” Ask 
her to sing next time you see her.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Oliver Cromwell, Christian Duarte, 
Josh Lefler, Quinn Pieper, Sam Velazquez, Nathan Walker
just one full-time career position 
and just over 50 student employees, ” 
Chadwick said. “It is a wonderful 
thing, in our opinion, to be able to 
provide that many new student jobs. ”
The idea of Audrey’s Cafe 
resonates well with Revelle College 
senior Brittany Factura, who 
expressed to the UCSD Guardian 
that having a coffee shop in Geisel 
will make it easier for students to buy 
drinks and food. 
“ A coffee shop in the library 
provides convenience to students 
who are studying and do not want 
to walk to a coffee shop, leave their 
belongings or leave their study spot 
for a long period of time, ” Factura 
said. “It makes it really easy for 
people like me, who are locked up in Geisel for most of the day, to stay 
caffeinated, focused and amped to 
continue on their pathway toward 
success. ”  
A second Revelle College senior, 
Sean Wenzel, also approved of the 
upcoming coffee shop because it 
provides an opportunity for students 
to take a break from studying.
“ A cafe would also lighten the 
atmosphere at Geisel and serve as 
a place for students to escape from 
their academic stresses for a bit, ” 
Wenzel added. 
However, Muir College 
sophomore Y olanda Ruiz, stated that 
there could be some drawbacks to 
having the coffee shop located inside 
the library.
“There is definitely going to be 
noise problems, but it is on the second 
floor, which has noise anyway, ” Ruiz said. “[There also] may be coffee 
stains all over the place. ”  
Generally though, the idea of 
a coffee shop in Geisel has gone 
over well with students, Library 
Communications and Engagement 
Director Dolores Davies told the 
UCSD Guardian. 
“The Library has conducted 
many student surveys over the years, 
and without fail, the concept of 
establishing a cafe in Geisel nearly 
always comes up, ” Davies said. “We 
think our students will be thrilled 
about Audrey’s, just as we are. ”
The creation of Audrey’s Cafe 
was made possible by a $3 million 
donation from Audrey Geisel, a 
benefactor of the library and the wife 
of author Dr. Seuss, to the GLRI in 
July 2015. 
Schottlaender stated that Mrs. Geisel’s gift to the GLRI, a project to 
improve the library’s interior, sped up 
the establishment of the cafe.
“ Audrey’s generous gift, which 
is fueling the GLRI, has given us 
the ability to [build the cafe] on a 
faster timeline, ” Schottlaender said. 
“The GLRI is motivated by our belief 
that this iconic building needs to 
be as inspiring on the inside as it is 
impressive on the outside and meet 
the learning, studying and research 
needs of today’s students and faculty. ”
Audrey’s Cafe is one of many 
updates that will be made to Geisel 
under the GLRI. The library will 
also be outfitted with new carpets, 
furniture, finishes and technological 
enhancements. Audrey’s Cafe Will Be Part of  a Larger Initiative to Renovate the Library’s Study SpaceResearchers at the UCSD School 
of Medicine have determined that 
alcohol interferes with intestinal 
defense mechanisms by decreasing 
levels of naturally occurring 
antimicrobials. In a study published 
in “Cell Host & Microbe” on Feb. 10, 
biologists discovered that bacteria 
left unchecked by these intestinal 
antibiotics can migrate to the liver and 
contribute to alcoholic liver disease. 
Bernd Schnabl, associate professor 
of gastroenterology at the UCSD 
School of Medicine, explained to the 
UCSD Guardian how a previously 
understood correlation between high 
alcohol consumption and excessive 
intestinal bacteria growth encouraged 
further exploration of gut microbiota. 
“We knew for a long time that 
patients with heavy drinking 
and alcoholic liver disease show 
intestinal bacterial overgrowth 
and dysbiosis, ” Schnabl told the 
UCSD Guardian. “From preclinical 
studies we also knew that the gut 
microbiome is important … Why changes in the intestinal microbiome 
occur was not known. ”
The human body naturally 
maintains consistent microbial 
concentrations in the intestine. 
Alcohol, however, prevents 
intestinal cells from producing the 
antimicrobials responsible for this 
regulation, allowing bacteria inherent 
to the gut to relocate to the liver. 
By examining the effects of 
chronic alcohol consumption on 
mice, Schnabl and his team of 
researchers concluded that decreased 
intestinal levels of the antibiotic 
proteins REG3G and REG3B promote 
alcoholic liver disease.
“We used genetically engineered 
REG3G and REG3B deficient mice 
and subjected them to chronic ethanol 
feeding, ” Schnabl said. “Deficiency in 
REG3 lectins mimics a suppression 
induced by heavy drinking. ” 
Schnabl added that his team 
also created a transgenic mouse 
that overexpressed REG3G in the 
intestine to determine whether or 
not “boosting” the intestinal defence 
would prevent alcoholic liver disease. 
Their research, supported by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse 
and Alcoholism, concluded that 
increasing levels of REG3 lectins 
reduced bacterial migration to the liver 
and prevented alcoholic liver disease. 
Mice genetically engineered to be 
deficient in REG3 lectins developed 
alcoholic liver disease that was more 
severe than mice with normal levels of 
the antibiotic proteins. 
Intestinal microbiota can occur 
in the lumen, the interior of the 
gastrointestinal tract, or adhere to 
the mucosal lining surrounding the 
lumen. The researchers discovered, 
however, that only mucosa-associated 
bacteria accumulate in the absence of 
REG3 lectins. 
Schnabl elaborated on how this 
study confirmed a link between 
increased levels of adherent 
microbiota in the absence of REG3 
lectins and the development of 
alcoholic liver disease.
“ Alcohol is known to damage the 
liver directly, ” Schnabl said. “We now 
provide evidence that suppression of 
intestinal defence mechanisms leads 
to increased alcoholic liver disease 
by a mechanism that involves failure to control the adherent microbiota 
in the intestine. This is a completely 
new mechanistic link in the gut-liver 
axis and the first evidence linking 
intestinal antimicrobial molecules to 
extraintestinal disease. ” 
Fluctuating REG3 levels had 
similar effects on the adherent 
microbiota of humans. Schnabl 
expanded on how steps taken to 
control REG3 expression might 
contribute to future treatments of 
alcoholic liver disease.
“Our studies suggest that boosting 
the intestinal defence might help 
in the treatment of alcoholic liver 
disease, ” said Schnabl. “We have some 
evidence that prebiotics increase the 
intestinal expression of REG3 lectins. 
Future research will have an important 
direction: Can we identify other 
molecules or strategies to increase 
REG3 expression, which could be 
used as therapeutic approach in 
patients with alcoholic liver disease. ” SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists Identify Link Bacterial Migration to Liver Disease
Researchers concluded that alcohol strips away intestinal antibiotics, leaving the liver susceptible to bacterial invasion.
By  K a r l y  N i s s o n
Karl y nisson   
▶ CAFE,  from page 1
LAUREN HOL T   NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
SURVEY
asce.ucsd .eduTake the ASCE En tertainment Sur vey.
Give input on wh at kind of events, music 
genres, and arti sts you want to see. This 
survey determines wh at arti sts ASCE 
selects for Sun God Festival, Hullabalo o, 
and other concerts th roughout the year. Make sure your
voice is hea rd! 
For que stions, contact avpconcerts@ucsd .edu.http://studentvoice.com/ucsd/asceentertainment1516It’s worthless because it’s free — it’s 
free because it’s worthless. You have 
to have some investment that it’s 
enough to make you committed to 
make yourself a success. ”
Peters described in the forum 
that the ideal cost of college 
is not currently a finite number 
applicable to all students. Rather, 
it’s somewhere between free and 
the current cost of attending one of 
the UC campuses. Junior Zhenzhen 
Jiang stated that college affordability 
is an ambiguous term in itself. 
“I certainly appreciate Scott’s honesty, but as you know, immigrants 
and people of color can have less 
resources available for education, 
and we have to think about it before 
we decide, ” Jiang said. 
Further, Jiang described the 
resulting pressure and burden of 
attending college with loans and 
debt that pile up. 
“There’ s a concern from us when 
we pick our major, like which major 
is going to prepare us for a job after, ” 
Jiang said. “I actually took a lot 
of risk to pick up political science 
instead of any engineering major 
because I need to think about how to 
pay back to my parents and my debt, 
so affordability means something completely different to me. ”
Fifth-year Marshall student Isuri 
Ramos commended Peters on the 
pragmatism of his approach to this 
issue and cited it as an effective first 
step in a plan which should progress 
over time.
“I think the congressman is 
headed in a very good direction – I 
definitely think that everything he’s 
proposing can increase significant 
aid, ” Ramos said. “He should be able 
to make those things happen, and 
then once you set that foundation, 
continue perfecting that. ”Peters: Attending a University Should Be Affordable But Not Free
▶ PETERS,  from page 1that the matter has been a standing 
item on the Chancellor’s Advisory 
Committee for Gender Identity and 
Sexual Orientation Issues.
“When the LGBT Resource 
center was built over a decade ago, 
[UCSD] students ensured a gender-
inclusive restroom was … in the 
design, ” Travers told the Guardian. 
“ Additionally, the Price Center 
expansion included a number of 
such restrooms through its design in 
response to students’ requests. ”
Assemblyman Phil Ting of 
San Francisco proposed Assembly 
Bill 1732 on Jan. 29, which would make all single-stall restrooms in 
California public spaces, government 
buildings and businesses explicitly 
open to all genders.
“Restrooms are a necessity 
of life, ” Ting said in a statement 
announcing the bill’s introduction. 
“A c c e s s  t o  t h e m  i n f l u e n c e s  o u r  
ability to participate in public life … 
Signs restricting single-use restroom 
access by gender create problems 
of convenience, fairness and safety. 
They defy common sense, which 
is why many of us ignore them. 
‘ All gender’ signs will end these 
problems and ensure everyone’s 
rights are protected. ” 
UCOP Media Specialist Kate Moser noted that the measure builds 
on the UC system’s established 
reputation as a progressive university.
“This is just one more way 
that the University of California 
is leading the state, ” Moser told 
the Guardian. “UC campuses are 
consistently rated as among the best 
campuses and most LGBT-friendly 
in the country, but we’re always 
looking for ways to continue to 
improve and to make sure that 
everyone at the University of 
California feels safe and supported. ”LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Saturday, Feb. 13
12:49 a.m. Alcohol Contact.
Excessive alcohol, RSO found 
intoxicated male vomiting and 
being held up by another male. 
Transported to hospital.
1:17 a.m. Citizen Contact. 
Found prescription bottle with 
powder substance and straw in it, 
inside restroom. Field interview.
2:19 a.m. Medical Aid.
Excessive alcohol, report of 
intoxicated adult male with alcohol 
poisoning. Transported to hospital.
2:37 a.m. Welfare Check.
You n g  a du lt  fe m a l e  by  h e r s e l f 
outside near stairs, possible 
intoxicated. Unable to locate.
9:16 a.m. Information.
Advising of power loss, power has 
been in and out all over campus. 
Information.
12:00 p.m. Injury.
Male student crushed finger while 
handling a magnet. Transported to 
hospital.
Sunday, Feb. 14
3:15 a.m. Assist Other Agency.
Excessive alcohol, Salk Institute 
Security Officer found adult male 
lying down on sidewalk surrounded 
by four other males. Transported to 
hospital.
4:34 p.m. Information.
Group of skateboarders going down 
the road. Gone on arrival.
5:13 p.m. Hazard Situation.
Two juveniles on third-floor ledge. 
Field interview.
11:53 p.m. Information.
Information regarding rave at off-
campus location, with possible 
UCSD students in attendance.  
Information.Monday, Feb. 15
5:07 p.m. Information. 
Medical Aid at entrance of hospital 
for adult male experiencing chest 
pains. Referred to other agency.
7:00 p.m. Alcohol/ Marijuana 
Contact.
Adult male issued citation for 
possession of marijuana under 28.5 
grams and open alcoholic
beverage container. Closed by 
citation, adult.
8:41 p.m. Attempt to Contact.
Parent unable to get ahold of 
daughter. Service provided.
9:29 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party advised security 
kicked him out of Geisel Library 
because he couldn’t check out a 
movie. Service provided.
10:29 p.m. Lost Property.
Found property near dumpsters. 
Property impounded. 
— KARLY NISSON
Staff WriterAssemblyman Proposed to Extend UC Restroom Policy to California
▶ RESTROOMS,  from page 1
LISA CHIK   LCHIK@ucsd.edureaders can contact
QUINN PIEPER   QPIEPER@ucsd.edureaders can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESTHIS FEBRUARY WE ARE EXAMINING HOW VALENTINE’S DAY INFLUENCES AMERICAN AND INTERNATIONAL CULTURE, 
WITH A FOCUS ON ITS COMMERCIAL AND IMPERIALISTIC EFFECTS ON EASTERN AND WESTERN SOCIETIES.How-To 
Guru: Act 
Your Age,
Millenials
It’s time to clearly distinguish the 
ways of Millennials from the ways 
of the Baby Boomers. This guide 
should be particularly useful for old-
fashioned misfits who can’t seem to 
get with the times. Here is a clear 
step-by-step guide to adapting one’s 
style and perspective to becoming a 
born-again Millennial. If you follow 
these easy steps, you’ll have older 
generations shaking their heads and 
grumbling with disapproval.
The most important step to 
being a Millennial is to constantly 
disappoint the older generations. An 
easy way to do this is to simply move 
back in with your parents while you 
try not to drown in your student 
debt. Even better, make sure to be 
unsuccessful in finding meaningful 
employment, especially when there 
are just “so many” jobs out there for 
young college grads. When Boomers 
start berating you for how lazy you are 
and tell you how easy it was for them 
to find jobs and get a house debt-free, 
you’ll know that you’re on your way to 
becoming a full-fledged Millennial.
The next step in achieving 
Millennial status is excessive 
narcissism. Make sure to divert 
conversations back to the topic of 
yourself whenever people of an older 
generation talk to you. Since Baby 
Boomers were historically labelled 
the “Me Generation, ” you’ll have to 
work especially hard to one-up the 
old geezers in your self-absorption. 
Instead of resorting to the word 
“me” in conversations, try using “me, 
me, me” to distinguish yourself as 
a Millennial. Bonus points can be 
earned when you bring social media 
into these situations. When others 
ask how school is going, or about 
your non-existent career options, 
whip out your cell phone and snap a 
fabulous selfie instead of answering 
them. Then sigh dramatically and 
talk about how difficult it is to 
maintain a good relationship with 
your followers these days. Go ahead 
and confide in random passersby 
with a coy smirk and an, “It’s not easy 
being instafamous. ”
While fanatically maintaining 
your Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, 
Pinterest, Tinder and Snapchat 
accounts instead of interacting with 
“real” people, be careful to avoid 
developing significant opinions. 
Political and social apathy are key 
to becoming a Millennial. When 
people ask for your opinion on rising 
college tuition or institutionalized 
racism in America or the situation 
in Syria, give them a blank look and 
ask them if they’ve liked your latest 
Instagram post. 
In addition to apathy about 
current events, you should be 
extremely sensitive about others’ 
opinions. When you spot instances 
of people overtly expressing their 
perspectives, throw a shit fit about 
it on social media and troll the 
accounts of everyone who dares to 
disagree with you. After starting 
a Facebook campaign to put an 
end to pesky, insensitive freedoms 
like the First Amendment, pull out 
your iPhone and scroll through 
meme-sharing sites. As the older 
generations grumble in disapproval, 
shoot them a self-satisfied grin. 
Kindly remind them that you are the 
future that will make America great 
again. Upon achieving this success, 
high-five your diaper-clad peers and 
snap another selfie. Holidays such as Valentine’s Day Promote the Celebration 
of Love and Happiness, Despite Commercial Influences
In the United States, people tend to regard Valentine’s Day as a 
special holiday to celebrate love and romance. Meanwhile, in places like 
Indonesia, Pakistan and India, there are frequent protests underway to 
put an end to the perceived attack by Westernization on Eastern cultures. 
Some conservative groups in these countries fear the rampant spread of 
Western ideals. Values of liberal romance threaten the moral standards 
of traditional arranged marriages. These arrangements emphasize duty 
to one’s family and society, which is not compatible with the Valentine’s 
Day expectation of individuals seeking their own romantic partner. 
Commercial holidays spread Western influence, often to the detriment of 
native traditions and customs in the East.
The Inquisitor said that district councillor in Peshawar, Pakistan 
Khalid Waqas Chamkani, made a public statement denouncing the 
holiday this year: “Valentine’s Day has no place in Pakistani, Islamic or 
even regional values. Promoting such events will mislead and destroy 
our young generation. ” It would appear that the globalization of holidays 
such as Valentine’s Day has a broad effect on Eastern culture that includes 
commercialization and cultural imperialism. Indian news outlet India.
com claims that activists who protested Valentine’s Day also threatened to 
marry any young couples found performing public displays of affection. 
According to the Inquisitr, Valentine’s Day products like teddy bears, 
hearts and flowers are often displayed in window shops of many Eastern 
countries despite intense conservative backlash. The Inquisitr said that in 
Saudi Arabia, five men were sentenced to 39 years in prison along with 
4,500 lashes divided between them, merely for dancing with women on 
Valentine’s Day in 2014. This shows that people in Eastern countries who 
fall under the influence of Western holidays may endure punishments for 
their alleged disloyalty to native traditions.
At the same time, there is an important moral aspect to the disparity 
between Western and Eastern moral and cultural beliefs. Valentine’s Day 
is practically a materialistic manifestation of American and European 
values about love and sex. It is also a commercial holiday that encourages 
spending money to ensure the love of one’s partner. As globalization 
continues, a trend of commercialism will likely intensify, spreading 
materialism and asserting Western beliefs that trigger civil unrest and 
internal conflict among other countries.
 — CASSIA POLLOCK
                              Opinion EditorPresence of  Commercial Holidays in Eastern Countries is 
Often Perceived as a Threat of  Cultural Imperialism
In America, everything is privy to capitalism — our holidays being 
no exception. On Valentine’s Day, according to the Vancouver Sun, 
people spend $200 on average for their significant others. As a result, 
these special days have been subject to increasing cynicism, the growing 
rhetoric labeling them as nothing more than a capitalistic scheme intended 
to swindle us into spending more money on holidays we shouldn’t give a 
damn about. We do give a damn, though, and for good reason. 
Behind the free market’ s bastardization of these days, the emotional 
and cultural significance of each of these holidays endures. Each of them 
celebrates an intrinsically positive and human value. Thanksgiving is 
about gratitude, Christmas is about charity and Valentine’s Day is about 
love and romance.
We don’t celebrate these holidays to spend money, we celebrate them 
to spend time with our families and loved ones; whether or not money 
enters the equation is a peripheral concern. More than their associated 
products, people associate holidays with social behavior. From the parties 
on St. Patrick’s Day to intimate dates on Valentine’s, holidays bring 
people together. More than money, people are happier when they spend 
these special days with other people. In fact, the American Psychological 
Association found that a materialistic outlook on the holidays coincided 
with decreased emotional well-being.
It’s more than possible to enjoy the holidays without breaking the bank. 
In fact, gestures that cannot be bought at the neighborhood supermarket 
are commended on every auspicious day of the year. An intimate, 
homemade dinner on Valentine’s Day is preferable to an expensive but 
impersonal box of chocolates that costs 10 times the money, but only one-
tenth the care and thought. 
Even among store-bought gifts, a simple bouquet of her favorite flowers 
is far more charming than an impersonal but pricey present. The gift does 
not hold its weight in its price tag, but in the sentiment behind it.
Capitalism may try to monetize the positive sentiments at the heart 
of each of these days, but that does not corrupt the spirit of the season. 
Money is just another way for us to be grateful for the people around us, 
be it family, a spouse, or a best friend. You can spend a lot, a little, or not 
at all on any holiday you wish; at the end of the day, it will still be the 
thought that counts.
 — NIKHIL KANTHI
                   Staff Writer
 See LEAD, page 5Lead traces in the water of  Flint are just one 
example of  governmental neglect. Across the 
nation, low socioeconomic communities are 
consistently exposed to lead poisoning, through 
contaminated water supplies.BY AYAT AMIN // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANGHOW AMERICA POISONs
marginalized
communities
To believe that Flint is an isolated event that only resulted from 
political inaction would be to undermine the real epidemic in America. 
Poor people of color across America are being poisoned with lead, and 
Flint is only the latest example. Worse yet, the government negligence 
after each separate crisis across the nation amplifies the injustice. 
According to the Detroit Free Press, emails show that Michigan’s governor 
was aware of the water quality since October 2014, although he publicly 
claims he wasn’t until March 2015. This is deliberate environmental 
racism at its worst, and it’s time our government and corporations were 
held accountable. 
Throughout the 20th century, America was the world’s leading 
producer and consumer of lead. The Environmental Protection Agency 
writes that by 1980, the U.S. was consuming around 1.3 million tons of 
lead per year, which is roughly 40 percent of the world’s supply. This was 
despite knowing the harmful effects lead has on human health. Although 
uses for lead like paint or gas have decreased since the 1980s, recent news 
has demonstrated that America is still not safe.
While the water poisoning in Flint is well known, many are unaware 
of lead poisoning in states like Pennsylvania and even California. 
According to Vox News, there are at least 15 cities in Pennsylvania with 
higher percentages of lead-poisoned children than Flint. Allentown, 
Pennsylvania is the worse where 23 percent of children were found 
with dangerous levels of lead in their blood, seven-times higher than Flint’s percentage. 
Pennsylvania has such rates because of the prevalence of homes built 
prior to the 1970s, when lead paint was widely used, according to the 
Morning Call. The fact that paint corporations knowingly put toxic lead 
into their products until the late twentieth century has only makes lead 
poisoning more widespread. Frustratingly enough, as Huffington Post 
reports, paint companies knew of the damages of lead paint but continued 
to sell the paint until it was banned in 1978. The result of such corporate 
greed are thousands of children across America becoming lead poisoned 
even 30 years after the ban. 
To be clear, lead poisoning is an actual medical term that isn’t used 
lightly. The Center for Disease Control refers to a child being lead 
poisoned only if symptoms from lead presence in the body can be visibly 
noticed. For reference, being lead poisoned means having above the 
national threshold of 10 µg/dL of lead in the blood. 
The worst part is of this epidemic is that it primarily harms America’s 
most vulnerable: our poor communities of color. According to Huffington 
Post, black children were 1.6 times more likely to test positive for lead 
in their blood than white children were. Similarly, citizens who were 
enrolled in Medicaid, a low-income status indicator, tested positive for 
lead presence more often than those who weren’t. Further evidence is seen 
in the cities aforementioned. Flint is 56 percent black, and 42 percent of 
its population lives below the poverty line, as reported by Huffington Post. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Noura Mint 
Seymali
Mixing Afropop with psychedelia and  
desert blues with raggae, Noura Mint  
Seymali drives the legacy forward as  
one of Mauritania’s most 
adventurous young artists.  
Thursday, March 3, at 8 pm
Price Center East Ballroom
Tickets: $30; $12 UCSD Student
artpower.ucsd.edu
858.534.TIXS“a modernising, transformative force in Mauritanian music.” —The Guardian
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
Similarly, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, 
the median income is less than 
$37,000, which is only a few thousand 
shy of the poverty line.
We, in California, might brush 
the issue of lead poisoning off as 
something that wouldn’t happen 
to us, but we would only be lying 
to ourselves. According to a UCLA 
report, in 2008 the Los Angeles 
Unified School District had a string 
of elementary schools whose water 
fountains contained lead levels 
higher than the national threshold. 
The report continues by citing that 
the cases in LAUSD were clustered 
around regions where residents used 
Medicaid. Thus California takes its place within the group of states guilty 
of disproportionately poisoning its 
poor communities of color with lead.
Y et there’s something significant 
about California’s position that 
changes the game. Lead poisoning is 
one of those vicious poverty-driven 
cycles. Lead-poisoned cities like 
Flint, Allentown and Los Angeles 
desperately need money to improve 
the infrastructure so that the crisis 
can stop. Y et these cities are often the 
poorest with no money to invest to 
break the cycle. 
California had the solution to hold 
corporations accountable. Just this 
year, 10 cities in California, including 
San Diego, won a $1.1 billion court 
case against several paint companies 
for selling lead paint despite being aware of its detriment to public health. 
The money from the settlement will 
cover the cost of removing lead paint 
from the many homes that were built 
when lead paint was common.
Up until this, the conversation 
around lead poisoning was bleak 
because cities didn’t have the money 
to invest. This is a great partial 
solution, and states around the U.S. 
should follow suit. Sadly, it won’t help 
cases like Flint that were purely due 
to government negligence. For that, 
governments will need to learn that 
all populations, even poor people 
of color, need their governance, not 
their negligence. Underprivileged Groups, Continually and Systematically Exposed to Lead
▶ LEAD from page 4
ayat  a m i n     
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
CONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Q: Last year the conversation about Sun God 2015 was all over 
social media. Why are students not buzzing about Sun God Festival as 
much this year?
W:  The decision to move forward with Sun God Festival this year was a much more 
contained conversation. The Sun God Health and Safety Task Force was disbanded through 
a decision-making process where students and administration collectively decided it wasn’t 
necessarily functioning the way we expected it to. A lot of people had to spend much of their 
time scheduling and conducting these meetings, but it probably wasn’t necessary for that many 
voices in order for a good decision to come out. The decision was also made a little later in the 
year than it was last school year. Many students didn’t even know the Sun God Festival was up 
for a decision.
Q:  Why was the Sun God Festival in trouble?
W:  Heading into those meetings, there was a concern that the health and safety 
numbers hadn’t improved significantly enough from the previous year’s numbers in order for 
administrators and student planners to confidently move forward with the event in the same 
structure. It took some negotiating on our part to see if we could create a model of Sun God 
Festival that would confidently address some of the health and safety concerns from this past 
festival but that also still appealed to students and was in the best interest of what students 
wanted the event to be.
This year’s festival will be wrapping at 6 p.m., before the sun goes down, because a number 
of incidents happened at last year’s event after it got dark. We’re confident that a move to a 
daytime event can be done in a fun and creative way so that it changes the vibe of the event 
without necessarily feeling like the nighttime element was thrown in the garbage. We’re 
currently working to refresh the Sun God Festival brand and incorporate elements that really 
cater to that daytime-festival aspect. 
The move to Saturday was done largely to address the concerns from RAs last year that their 
workload over the entire weekend was too difficult. We’re confident that moving to a Saturday 
daytime event enables student workers to not be overburdened over the weekend.
Q:  Then, why not Friday?
W:  One of the reasons we didn’t reconsider Friday was tied to — since it was gonna 
be a daytime-only event — having it during class hours where we knew there was no portion 
of the event that students could attend without cutting class. We didn’t want the event to 
negatively impact the academics of UCSD. Also, there’s never been a Saturday Sun God 
Festival, so we’re doing it to see what effects it can have on the structure of the event, the nature 
of the event and the culture around the event.
Q:  Since Health and Safety was disbanded, what’s replacing it?
W: The Health and Safety Task Force was making big-picture decisions and then 
there was a health and safety subcommittee that was implementing them. That committee still 
meets on a regular basis. The director of the festival, Graham Richardson, and I still meet with 
staff and administrators to work toward health and safety goals for the year.
Q: Were there health and safety goals set by administration?
W: There’s a culture associated with the event that is tied to drinking and 
drinking in large amounts to the extent that a lot of students who go overboard that day 
never anticipated it and never had a history of this behavior of it before. A lot of these large, 
structural health and safety changes that have taken place at the festival over the past few years 
haven’t had time to truly affect the culture of the event, because culture take a lot longer to change than just an event. We can change the event in a day by changing how we plan it, but we 
can’t change the student culture and how students understand how they interact with the event 
until years have passed. This year, we’ll see a full year of students who have graduated out with 
a past understanding of the culture of the event and a new freshman class that will learn what 
the event is this year. I think if we see a 25 percent reduction in health and safety numbers, 
that’s an indicator that time is the important factor and that it’s reteaching a new generation of 
students what the Sun God Festival could be about.
Q:  So what will be different from last year or what will be removed?
W: Currently, we do not have it in the budget for a beer garden. It was something 
that was tried out last year and was relatively unsuccessful. We anticipated that the amount of 
students that would be purchasing beers would enable that vendor to not be at any cost to the 
festival, but not enough students seemed interested or engaged in the beer garden last year, so 
we didn’t feel like it was an effective use of funding, so we’re currently looking at using that area 
for something else.
Q: There was some controversy with Staff Pro a few years ago 
but we had them last year, what is the future of Staff Pro at Sun God?
W:  The recent minimum wage increase for UC workers will be implemented by the 
time of Sun God Festival, so the average private security worker at the day of the event will be 
getting paid more on an hourly basis than they would working somewhere else. It’s reasonable 
to assume that the people we’ll be getting from Staff Pro at this year’s festival will be the best 
they can offer. [We] have a greater incentive for really good security to work at this event since 
getting paid more gives us the expectation that we’ll have a good Staff Pro year.
Q: You talked about changing the culture of the event — will 
that factor into the type of performers you go after?
W:  Probably the most enjoyable part of what we do for building an event like this is 
curating those performance decisions; you can look at the festival really as an art form. A lot of 
the booking decisions that we make try to line up musicians with the aesthetic of the event and 
the experience we want people to have on the field. 
Q: Last year planners wanted to avoid EDM because it fosters a 
“drug culture.” Would you say you are avoiding any certain genres?
W: I don’t know if we’re trying to avoid any genre as much as we’re trying to remain 
educated on the experience the audience has at those shows. We do a lot of research before booking 
an act to see what the nature of the crowd is when this person is playing at another festival. 
That affects the decisions that we make, more so than their genre.
We have reached out to a number of agencies. Nothing is confirmed at this point. Every day we’re 
checking the responses to our entertainment survey, which asks students what genres they’re 
listening to, what specific artists they’re listening to and types of events students are interested in 
seeing. That’s influencing the process of who we reach out to and who we decide on.
Q: With Staff Pro being paid more, a shortened festival, and no 
alumni tickets, how has the budget been affected?
W:  With the health and safety measures that were taken a few years back to cut guest 
tickets, we’ve lost a portion of our income for the event, which definitely influences the scale 
of some of the decisions. So we’re working around some budgetary challenges more so than 
the past couple of years. It really made us reexamine our priorities for the event. What is at the 
core of this event that we know students really are passionate about?
Currently, our entire budget for the event is determined by Associated Students, and it’s 
all student fees that are paying into it. This year, the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs has Q and A with 
Christian WalkerCompiled by Allison Kubo // Features Editor
and Jacky To  // News Editor
ART BY SOPHIA HUANG // UCSD GUARDIAN
The UCSD Guardian sat down for an honest discussion with Assistant Vice 
President of Concerts & Events Christian Walker about the school’s most 
infamous and beloved festival.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
A   Look   a t   p ast   sun   
god   Festiv alsagreed to pay for a component of the health and safety module, the educational portion of the 
registration process.
This year we are looking at sponsorship. Sponsorship has always been a component of the 
festival. It allows us to add value to the field and add to the experience. We are looking for 
additional funds to close that gap.
Q:  How would you characterize your relationship with 
administration?
W: I’ve worked with several administrators so far this year that I can really tell are 
invested in doing what is best for the student body. I don’t always agree with all of them about 
what is best for the student body or the way to approach some of these very difficult decisions 
that are made around the festival, but in those decision-making processes, I can recognize and 
sympathize with where they’re coming from. 
Q:  Would how much of the budget will be used for acts?
W:  We’re definitely taking the approach of booking artists that we see a lot of 
potential and value in. A lot of things go into an artist's’ decision about whether to play at a given event: their location, the timing and if the event fits in with the trajectory that they’re 
trying to make their career targeted toward. If a lot of those stars align, then we end up getting 
someone that’s a little more prestigious for less than they would normally charge at other 
events.
I wouldn’t say that performing at Sun God Festival bars you from all future gigs from there, 
but we’re always looking to present a diverse palette of performers for the student body. My 
feeling is that if somebody’s performed at Sun God Festival before at roughly the same caliber 
of performance, then that’s somebody we’ d probably prefer to pass on.
Q: Did the results of Hullabaloo influence how you will run Sun God?
W:  Having such a successful — as far as health and safety numbers go — Fall 
Quarter in general has boded very well for the festival. We’ve seen the culture around 
large-scale events really starting to realign with our goals. When we initially posted about 
Hullabaloo, we had an open letter to the student body describing the current condition of the 
Sun God Festival conversation [at the time] and then urging students to make sure that they 
were partying responsibly and taking care of themselves and each other. We had really positive 
responses in the comments section where some students were like “Come on Tritons, we got 
this, ” and that was a really cool uniting moment for the student body.
788
7227
8 1388
11 1140
387584
85 945365
75 8882.1%7.4% 15.3%4%
5.2%8.4% 5.6%4.5%
7.1%
7.5%42.1%
40.0% 52.1% 4 7.7%
54.8%
64.4%
8.9%36.8%36.9%
48.4%
60.3%
83.9%
7 4.7%75.0% 84.7%108149
130 109Number of 
Incidents
Number of 
IncidentsPercent 
of Tot al 
Incidents
Percent 
of Tot al 
IncidentsALLISON   KUBO    8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
A Journey 
to Middle 
Earth with 
Stephen 
Potts
As a herd of students files into 
WLH 2111, it isn’t obvious who this 
class is meant for, as literature majors 
take their places next to pink-haired 
punks and electrical engineers. 
However, at 2 p.m., Professor 
Stephen Potts sweeps into the room, 
plumed hat in one hand and a 
weathered edition of J.R.R. Tolkien’s 
The Silmarillion in the other. Today, 
they go to Middle Earth.
Potts has been an avid Tolkien 
fan since first reading his work in the 
late ‘60s, a time which he described 
as “the drug-saturated hippie era. ” 
While some found their escape 
in psychedelic drugs, Potts called 
Tolkien’s Middle Earth his home away 
from home.
For him, the appeal of Tolkien’s 
stories lies in its construction as a 
complete world.
“I really enjoyed the fact that he 
had created languages and he created 
these thousands of years’ worth 
of history, ” Potts told the UCSD 
Guardian.
After reading the books during 
the summer before starting college, 
Potts purchased a splashy poster of 
Middle Earth from Ballantine Books 
for $1. Today it hangs in his office 
next to a bookshelf teaming with 
genre fiction.
In class, Potts is almost a Tolkien 
character himself, one day spewing 
sorrowful soliloquies in perfect 
Elvish, the next day unintentionally 
dressing like a hobbit in billowing 
sleeves and a gem-toned vest.
Although his love for Tolkien is 
tangible, in practice he is a much 
bigger science fiction fan than 
fantasy buff. In fact, after reading 
Tolkien’s comprehensive work, he 
finds most fantasy novels redundant.
His love for science fiction 
started with a passion for science 
that continues to be a part of his 
life today. At just six years old, Potts 
began his study of science fiction 
with “The Golden Treasury of 
Natural History, ” which he still owns 
to this day.
“Two of my great intellectual 
pursuits from a school age were the 
natural world of science and reading, 
and so it’s natural that [I got into] 
science fiction once I got old enough 
to really embrace it, ” Potts said. 
Nowadays, if he isn’t reading his 
favorite science fiction author Philip 
K. Dick, he can be found perusing 
Science News Magazine, attending 
environmentalism lectures at 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
participating in panels at San Diego-
based conventions from Comic Con 
to Condor, or hiking the Rocky 
Mountains with his son. In between, 
he teaches courses in children’s 
literature and science fiction. 
Whether he is teaching Tolkien 
or space travel, the waitlists for all of 
Potts’ classes prove that his passion is 
expressed through his teaching. 
But at ten to the hour, Potts’s 
spell is broken. Students leave the 
Shire behind and return to orc-less 
reality, already looking forward to the 
next chapter of adventures through 
Middle Earth.Tia Ikemoto
tikemoto@ucsd.eduBehind the  LectErnFOLLOW   US   ON   TWITTER  
@UCSDGUARDIAN
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at our revamped website
SEE   MOre  on    INST Agram
@ucsdguardian
f.com/ucsdguardianHa ven't liked our 
f acebook p age yet?CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES: CHI-RAQ
PRICE CENTER THEATER • PC WESTFRIDAY 2.21 • 7pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 22 - FEB 282016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 2.24 TUE 2.23
7am
ACCB PRESENTS: BREAKFAST AT THE LOOP- 
REGENTS SHUTTLE LOOP
Come enjoy FREE Starbucks and breakfast snacks at 
the Regents Shuttle Loop!
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
6pm
STUDENTS AGAINST MASS INCARCERATION 
GBM SERIES- UCSD COMMUNITY RESOURCE 
CENTERS
This quarter SAMI is hosting GBMs at the five 
community centers on campus! Each meeting we will 
discuss the prison industrial complex and mass 
incarceration by focusing on issues specific to the 
community that week. Please join us at these events 
for discussion and to learn more about what SAMI 
does! Week 6 2/11 6PM - WC Week 7 2/17 6PM - 
BRC Week 8 2/24 6PM - LGBTRC Week 10 3/9 6PM - 
CCC
6pm
UCSD STUDENT FOUNDATION: SEA OF GIVING- 
LIBRARY WALK
The UCSD Student Foundation brings you Sea of 
Giving: Student Engagement and Philanthropy month. 
Every Wednesday will have a new event for both 
donors and non-donors alike! February 3rd: 
Awareness Day, blocks 1982-1985 February 10th: 
Gratitude Day, block 1991 February 17th: Giving Day, 
blocks 1994-1997 February 24th: Meet the Boss, the 
Basement. Make sure to come out to learn about how 
you can give and learn from experienced business 
professionals at Meet the Boss!
FRI2.26
10am
FITNESS ZONE: CORE FIT- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
A strong body starts with a strong core. Improve your 
overall fitness and performance by training your abs, 
back, chest and hips. This 30min class is a great 
combo with a cardio workout, or as a bundle with 
Bootcamp. Get strong, get fit, get core fit! Lead by 
FitLife instructor Tiffany Caddell.
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! Price: $5 per plate Contact: 
maiEguchi@mail.ucsd.edu (858) 822-532810am
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA STRETCH YOGA- THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
A moderately paced yoga class that connects breath 
with movement in precise alignment to create 
greater awareness, strength and stability. Lead by 
FitLife instructor Nadine.
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
QUARTERLY CONVERSATIONS IN GLOBAL 
HEALTH: GUN VIOLENCE IN THE UNITED 
STATES- GREAT HALL INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
This forum on gun violence in the United States 
aims to address the issue as the multifaceted one it 
is. The first part of the event will be student and 
community organization booths on the topic of gun 
violence, and then a panel of experts will speak on 
gun violence as a public health crisis. Panel experts 
include: Dr. Janis Jenkins of UCSD, Dr. Lawrence 
Hinman of USD, and Ron Marcus of the Brady 
Campaign. The event will culminate in a 
student-drive discussion on the topic, networking, 
and FREE food!
5pm
THE SIX COLLEGES PRESENT: DOCUMENTED- 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
The Six Colleges present a special screening of the 
award-winning film "Documented." Pulitzer 
Prize-winning journalist Jose Antonio Vargas 
chronicles his journey to America from the 
Philippines as a child; his public struggle as an 
immigration reform activist/provocateur; and his 
journey inward as he reconnects with his mother, 
whom he hasn't seen in 20 years.MON 2.22
10am
RECYCLEMANIA - SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE 
RecycleMania is an 8 week long competition where 
each week is individually themed. Learn more about 
battery recycling, walk in a re-purposed fashion 
show, participate in a sustainable scavenger hunt, 
and much more! Plus, get a chance to win 
sustainable prizes each week.
11am
SUMMER, FINANCIAL AID, AND HOUSING 
INFORMATION SESSION- RED SHOE ROOM, 
PRICE CENTER
Thinking about summer? Questions about financial 
aid? Want to live on campus?W e will be answering 
questions about summer classes, financial aid and 
housing!
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEATHY: ZUCCHINI, BROWN 
RICE & BLACK BEAN DISH- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Come join us as we make Zucchini, Brown Rice & 
Black Bean Dish, hosted by the Student Health 
Advocates and get FREE samples! Materials and 
ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served.
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday 
from 5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the 
Zone at zone@ucsd.eduSAT 2.27For more information, visit
blackhistorymonth.ucsd.eduCELEBRATING BLACK
HISTORY MONTH
8am
INTERCULTURAL MUSIC CONFERENCE AND 
CONCERTS- CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
UCSD's Intercultural Music Conference presents 3 
free concerts and 8 discussion panels, featuring 
intercultural music of and across the Americas, East 
and West Asia, and Europe. Through music and 
discussions, we will consider the problems and 
prospects of intercultural 
music.icm2016.wordpress.com IcM features over 50 
musicians and scholars from more than 15 countries, 
including music composed by North, Central, and 
South Americans, Chinese and Hong Kong, Azerbaijan, 
and more. There will be a piece showcasing a musical 
dialogue between jazz and Persian music, as well as 
keynote speeches on Andalusian music and 
"Algorithm of Musical Time."
5pm
THE LAB PRESENTS: TRIPLE P ROUND 1- THE 
LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
The Lab that brought you Double Penetration, one of 
UCSD's most highly anticipated dance events, now 
present to you UCSD's first ever 3v3 battles: Triple 
Penetration. ALL SKILL LEVELS ARE WELCOME* So 
what's the difference between TP and DP? TP will be 
3v3 battles, there is NO ENTRY FEE to enter battles, 
judges are representatives from each of the major 
dance teams on campus, there will be exhibition 
battles, and it will be more HYPE. But besides that, 
this event will offer the same safe environment that 
DP has, so everyone is strongly encouraged to 
participate in this event, especially if you are new to 
freestyling and want to try out battling. FREE 
ADMISSION!THU 2.25
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: Gain 
greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful state of 
being, Learn techniques to de-stress, Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
1:30am
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
5pm
A NIGHT WITH JOSE ANTONIO VARGAS: RACE, 
PRIVILEGE, & IMMIGRATION- PRICE CENTER 
EAST BALLROOM
Join Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and filmmaker 
Jose Antonio Vargas for an evening discussing race, 
privilege, and immigration in the United States. Jose 
Antonio Vargas is the new voice of U.S. immigration 
reform who outed himself as an undocumented 
immigrant. From film to social media, he's taken to 
every platform, challenging the way we perceive 
undocumented immigrants in our media, culture, and 
m. FREE
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Oxen pair
 5 Inclination
 9 Celestial transient
 14 Rounds or clips, e.g.
 15 Jamaican fruit export
 16 One-celled organism
 17 Decant
 18 Bank offering
 19 Halos
 20 Start of an Evan Esar quip
 23 Actress Witherspoon
 24 “__ Miserables”
 25 College cheer
 28 More stylish
 32 Casa component
 33 Slightest bit
 36 Humdinger
 37 Biblical mount
 38 Part 2 of quip
 42 Hersey’s bell town
 43 Go yachting
 44 Santa __ winds
 45 Comic Foxx
 46 Snitched
 49 NBC classic
 50 Prohibit
 51 River of forgetfulness
 55 End of quip
 60 Delectable
 62 Sagacious
 63 Formerly, formerly
 64 Join
 65 Memorable periods
 66 Nuzzle
 67 Choir voice
 68 Cong. people
 69 Woodlands ruminantDown
 1 Hoglike mammal
 2 Ham it up
 3 Entertain
 4 Bog
 5 Cow’s mate
 6 Composer Stravinsky
 7 Jai __
 8 Unmarried
 9 Tilts to one side
 10 Leave out
 11 Business reminders
 12 Flow out
 13 Skater Babilonia
 21 Classic French film, “Pepe __”
 22 That girl
 26 Actor Delon
 27 Israeli port
 29 Whatever
 30 Old-time motorcar
 31 Reliance
 32 Knight’s address
 33 Ski-slope rides
 34 Shakespearean forest
 35 Pride or sloth, for example
 37 Exclusively
 39 In addition
 40 Snitch
 41 Actor Wheaton
 46 Greek letter
 47 Response
 48 Rely
 50 Customer
 52 Pang
 53 Wiesbaden’s state
 54 Computer command
 56 Sgt. Snorkel’s dog
 57 Emerald Isle
 58 Quickly!
 59 British pianist Myra
 60 Exclamation of disdain
 61 Organic suffixBIKES
Fixie Bike - $250. Matte black and white 
fixie bike. Barely ridden. Comes with pump 
and bike lock. Listing ID: 237287773 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
matio
One Year Old Schwinn Bike - $100. Only 
rode three times. It is off road and street. 
Comes with helmet, carrying pouch and 
lock. Listing ID: 237287767 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
MGX Mongoose Mountain Bike - $200. Hard 
to find exact bike! Hand polished alumi -
num, new tires, dual suspension, extend 
rear end, rebuild gears. Don’t want to get 
rid of it but have to! Listing ID: 237287763 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
ELECTRONICS
Samsung Core Prime - $50. Smartphone. 
Samsung, Android, 8 GB. Camera on front 
and on the back. Nice images. Listing ID: 
237903225 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationUE Mini Boom Bluetooth Speakers - 
$35. Barely used. Small but loud. Great 
Bluetooth speakers. Listing ID: 237903224 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
80GB Black iPod - $85. In good condition 
and easy to play music. Just need a charger 
cord and you’re ready to listen. Listing ID: 
237903220 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Couch Sofa - $500. Moving out sale. Goose 
down couch and decorative pillows. 7 
½ feet long. Washable cover. Listing ID: 
237903261 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beautiful High Top Table - $160. In ter -
rific condition! Comes with four matching 
chairs. One chair is missing piece on bot -
tom but still fully functional. Also comes 
with lazy Susan and has a built-in sleeve 
to adjust table size. Listing ID: 237903260 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Pop Up Work Table - $35. Light fold up work 
table. Sturdy and in great shape. Listing ID: 
237903256 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
W\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
6+2375,721287),77(56
WRXFVdedX
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
UCSD swept visitor Holy Names 
University, 3–0, in a nonconference 
match Saturday night at RIMAC 
Arena. The Tritons hit a season-high 
.432 (40-8-74), and the set scores 
were 25–15, 25–14 and 25–16.
With the win, UCSD ended 
an eight-game losing streak and 
improved to 4–13 on the season, with 
the last win for the Tritons being a 
3–2 victory over Princeton on Jan. 
27. The men’s team had also dropped 
13 consecutive sets before winning 
the first on Saturday. With the win, 
the Tritons won a home-and-home 
series against the Hawks. UCSD won 
its first match against Holy Names in 
Oakland on Jan. 23, while the Hawks 
stay winless at 0–12.
Senior outside hitter Kirill 
Rudenko had a career-high hitting 
rate of .750. leading players with nine 
kills and zero errors over 12 swings. 
Rudenko also tied his season high 
with five digs, two assists and an ace.
The win was a team effort as 
11 of the 16 Tritons scored at least 
one kill, while only six of them 
committed a hitting error. Freshman 
setter Ryan Blaich had 16 assists and 
two aces while sophomore setter 
Milosh Stojcic added 14 assists and 
nine digs of his own. 
The Tritons went on a 5–0 run 
in the first set after a service error, 
which allowed the home team to 
take their first lead of the set 7–6. 
The lead stretched to 10–6, forcing 
Holy Names to call the first timeout 
of the game. The Hawks would score the first point after the break but 
wouldn’t get any closer than that. 
The Tritons scored seven points in 
a row, including an ace by Stojcic, to 
easily take care of the second frame. 
The third set was tied at 6–6, but 
the Tritons took control with five 
straight points. Holy Names would 
call another timeout, but it would 
not do much as the Tritons would 
extend the lead to 16–7. Sophomore 
outside hitter Ryan Schickling 
entered the game late in the third set and added a career best four kills 
over UCSD’s last six points. Redshirt 
sophomore middle blocker Bryan 
Zhu helped finish the third set as he 
served for six points and two aces.
Sophomore outside hitter Luke 
La Mont and redshirt freshman 
middle blocker Drew Sloane each 
added four kills on .500 hitting and 
two blocks off the bench. Freshman 
libero Austin Pak made his college 
debut and recorded a dig.
“We got off to a pretty good start in each set and were able to get off  
to pretty sizeable leads, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Kevin Ring told the Athletics 
Department. “Experience goes a long 
way, and it’s important for guys to get 
on the court, and you’re looking for 
them to capitalize and I thought the 
guys did a good job of that. ”
UCSD’s previous high for attack 
percentage was .418 (38-10-67) 
against Charleston in the season-
opening victory.
The Tritons stay at home with only one match in the coming week 
as they face off against fourth-ranked 
Stanford on Feb. 25. The game starts 
at 7 p.m. in the RIMAC Arena. 
“We’ve had some ups and downs, ” 
Ring said. “We played some really 
good teams. I thought we played 
some pretty good volleyball, we’re 
playing a really good Stanford team, 
we’re trying to find what’s our brand 
of volleyball. How good can we be. ”M.VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Sweep Holy Names University in Straight Sets at Home
UCSD snaps eight game losing streak with win over the Hawks, look forward to the No. 4 ranked Stanford Cardinal next at RIMAC Arena.
Readers can contact
dev  jain        BY  d e v  j a i n
associate sports editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Coming off of a strong showing against Cal State 
Stanislaus, the UCSD men’s basketball team 
was hoping to ride their regained momentum 
into the postseason. Unfortunately, that 
momentum hit a pothole and sent the team spiraling 
into disarray for part of their game against Cal State San 
Marcos. The No. 13 Tritons dropped to 19–5 overall and 
14–4 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, 
and the Cougars climbed to 14–10 overall and 10–7 in 
conference.
While the opening minutes were a fairly tight affair, a 
dry spell on the offense from the Tritons halfway through 
the period allowed the Cougars to take a suffocating 
lead by the end of the half. The Cougar defense held the 
normally tough Triton offense to a mere 7–24 shooting 
overall while also out-rebounding the Tritons 20–13, 
allowing the Cougars to dictate the pace of the game. 
With the deficit at 18 heading into halftime, the Tritons’ 
prospects of a comeback appeared fairly slim.
But while they would never regain the lead, the 
Tritons surely made the game interesting by the end of 
the night. A well timed three-pointer by senior forward 
Drew Dyer would kickstart the Triton offense, turning it back into the well-oiled machine that had won most 
of the games this season. Then, within a little over nine 
minutes, a three-pointer from junior guard Adam Klie 
would put the Tritons within just three points of the 
Cougars. Sadly, the Tritons just couldn’t hang in there, as 
the Cougars would eventually bring the lead back to 10 
and soon close out the game 78–72.
Despite the loss, the stellar efforts of sophomore guard 
Grant Jackson in the second half cannot be ignored. 
Jackson’s 25 points were a key component in making the 
game close in the second half. Also driving the Triton’s 
comeback train was Dyer, who scored all 18 of his points 
in the second half. The Tritons’ 17–31 shooting overall 
in the second half was a far cry from their abysmal first 
half playing.
“We didn’t play with a sense of urgency that we need 
to have in the first half and we dug ourselves a big hole, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We found the energy we needed in the 
second half, but it was too little, too late. ”
The Tritons will finish out their season at home against 
San Francisco State and Sonoma State on Feb. 26 and Feb. 
27, respectively. Swim and Dive Break Twelve Records
Tritons qualify for the NCAA Division II Championships and win the 
PCSC tournament for the eighth year in a row
Written by Gurkirat Singh// Senior StaffWriter
Photo by Megan Lee 
Tritons Fall to Cal State San Marcos 
Slow start dooms UCSD as they can not make up an 18 point 
defecit at the half.
Written by Alex Wu // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee 
week  in
summar y
MEN'S
BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALLUCSD
UCSDCSU San Marcos
CSU San Marcos72 - 78
84 - 56
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
25 25 25
25 25 25
15 14 1619 12 14
15 17 15
25 25 25Long Beach State
CSU Northridge
Holy NamesUCSD
UCSD
UCSD
Readers can contact
Alex  Wu     
No. 20 UCSD trounced league 
rival Cal State San Marcos 84–56 
in a California Collegiate Athletic 
Association matchup. It was a total 
team effort as a staggering six Tritons 
scored in double figures. UCSD 
matched its best win streak of the 
season with seven, and stand at 21–3 
overall and 16–2 in conference play, 
good for second in the CCAA behind 
only Cal State Dominguez Hills. 
UCSD earned an early 19–15 lead 
after the first quarter. Despite Cal State 
San Marcos cutting the margin to one 
in the second half, UCSD started to 
open up the game and outscored San 
Marcos 19–8 to finish the half. 
The Tritons never looked back 
after the half, building up their lead 
and outscoring the Cougars 27–16 in 
the third quarter. From then on, the 
Tritons just cruised with a 28-point 
margin to a convincing 84–56 win.
“[We’re] very excited about our 
great team effort tonight, ” UCSD 
Head Coach Heidi VanDerveer told 
UCSD Athletics. “I thought that we came out and had tremendous pace to 
our offense. We got out and got some 
easy baskets. ”
Senior guard Jamie Katuna 
continued her amazing season, 
scoring a game-high 17 points to 
go along with four assists. Senior 
forward Farrah Shokoor had 14 
points and 16 rebounds, good for her 
14th double-double of the season. 
Junior guard Beth Mounier had 14, 
redshirt sophomore guard Taylor 
Tanita scored 12, sophomore guard 
Paige Song had a career-best 10 and 
freshman guard Joleen Y ang also 
contributed with 10 points. Song 
had a perfect game shooting the 
ball, hitting 5 for 5 shots for her first 
double-digit game of her career. She 
led a Triton offense that shot 57.9 
percent (33–57) from the field and 
50 percent (9–18) from behind the 
three-point line.
UCSD has dates with San 
Francisco State on Feb. 26 and 
Sonoma State on Senior Night, Feb. 
27, to close out the season. W. BASKETBALL
Women’s Basketball Beat Cal State San Marcos By Almost 30 Points
Tritons extend season best winning streak to seven, improve record to 21–3 overall, will close out the season with two games this weekend.
BY  M a r c u s   t h u i l l i e r
sports editor
Readers can contact
marcus thuillier        PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Tennis
W.Tennis
M.Volleyball
Softball
W.Basketball2/25
2/25
2/25
2/26
2/26VS Western New Mexico
VS Western New Mexico
VS Stanford
VS Chico State 
VS San Francisco State