VOLUME 49, ISSUE 60   THURSDA Y , JUNE 2, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A&E SUMMER 
PREVIEW
SUMMER IS UPON US, FRIENDS. 
JOIN YOUR ENTERTAINMENT-
SAVVY PEERS HERE AT THE 
GUARDIAN IN DISCUSSING THE 
“HOT” NEW MOVIES, TV AND 
MUSIC COMING OUT OVER THE 
NEXT FEW MONTHS. KN OUT.
YEAR  IN  REVIEW
HISTORIC  SEASONA  LOOK  A T  THE  GUARDIAN'S  BEST
men's ba sketball 2015-2016OPINION,  P age   4
sprots,  P age  12
THURSDAY  
H 75 L 61FRIDAY  
H 79 L 61
SATURDAY  
H 75 L 61SUNDAY  
H 75 L 60
FORECAST
VERBATIM
BUT, SHOULD 
WE FIND 
WHAT STOKES 
THE FLAMES 
OF FERVENT 
INTEREST AND 
AMBITION WITHIN OURSELVES, 
THERE IS THE POTENTIAL 
CAPACITY WITHIN COMMUNITY 
TO BILLOW UP THOSE FLAMES.
— VINCENT PHAM OUT
FRESHMAN FAUX-PAS
WEEKEND , PAGE 10
INSIDE
IN LOVING MEMORY  ........ 2
CORRECTION  .................. 3
BUS ETIQUETTE  ............ 10
TACO FEST  ................... 10
W. SOCCER  ................... 11“weekend,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF WARNER BROS. PICTURES
A.S. Council passed a resolution 
to ban plastic water bottles on 
May 18. The resolution means that 
A.S. supports the restriction of 
the sale of plastic water bottles in 
on-campus locations and proposes 
the installation of new hydration 
stations as well as increased access 
to disposable boxed water in order 
to support the university’s aim to be 
more sustainable.
The plastic water bottle ban 
campaign grew out of the desire 
to hold the university accountable 
for the UC Office of the President’s 
promise to have all UC campuses be 
“zero waste” by 2020. It also aims to 
address the environmental, health 
and human rights issues that plastic 
water bottles create.A.S. Associate Vice President of 
Environmental Justice Affairs Moon 
Pankam explained the importance of 
focusing on the plastic water bottle 
in the larger context of our campus’s 
sustainability while recognizing 
the needs for disposable water 
containers. 
“One manner in which we can 
achieve these goals [of being waste 
free] is to phase out the sale of  plastic 
water bottles, ” Moon told the UCSD 
Guardian. “The production and sale 
of plastic water bottles is a practice 
that contributes to the production 
of plastic waste and carbon dioxide 
emissions — by participating in 
a culture of reusable water bottle 
and hydration station usage...UCSD 
students, staff, and faculty can reduce 
negative environmental impacts in a 
manner that is also cost effective. 
There is, however, within this resolution, a provision that ASUCSD 
also recognizes that visitors to this 
campus may have a need to access 
disposable boxed water, which is 
more environmentally friendly than 
plastic water bottles. ”
SSC Project Director for the Water 
Bottle Ban David Liao described 
his experience spearheading the 
campaign as one of collaboration 
and cooperation.
“One of the important strategies 
for campaigning is coalition 
building….collaboration is a key 
element to a successful campaign, ” 
Liao said. “[Organizations like] 
Aquaholics Anonymous, under the 
EH&S, have focused their efforts 
on water conservation...when we 
found out that our campaign goals 
aligned, we reached out to them Occupants 
of  Building 
Demand 
RelocationLITERATURE
According to the petition, 16 
people who worked in the 
facility were diagnosed with 
cancer between 1991 and 2008.
BY   k e v i n  sa n t o s
senior 
Graduate students from the 
Literature Department released 
a petition last week calling for 
the immediate relocation of the 
Literature Building’s occupants due 
to the uncommonly high number of 
cancer diagnoses among the facility’s 
faculty and graduate students.
Between 1991 and 2008, 16 
occupants of the Literature Building 
were diagnosed with a form of 
cancer, nine of which were breast 
cancer cases. In response, UCSD 
conducted an in-depth review of 
the facility in 2008 and addressed 
potential hazard areas, particularly 
those involving electromagnetic 
fields and mold.
Even though 2011 studies 
concluded that the Literature 
Building’s air quality and chemical 
levels were safe, Yingjin Zhang, 
the literature department chair, 
explained that recent cancer 
diagnoses have reignited fear and 
discomfort for those working in 
the facility. 
“New cases of cancer have 
been diagnosed since 2011 when 
the building was retrofitted with 
A/C and tested normal for air 
quality and other chemical levels, ” 
Zhang said. “Many building users, 
especially graduate students, now 
feel uncomfortable or even unsafe 
inside the building. And some are 
quite emotional given the previous 
cases. ”
The petition aims to compel 
UCSD administration to release 
public information on the occupants’ 
potential move to a new facility, 
address what will happen to the 
current Literature Building, conduct 
another test for carcinogens, hold a 
public meeting for all those housed 
in the building to discuss the issue 
and add cancer cluster information 
to safety training materials.
Current members of the 
Literature Department, literature 
department alumni and allies from 
other university departments have 
signed the petition. 
Within the petition, graduate 
students described how working 
in the possible cancer cluster has 
affected them. 
“Many of us continue to feel 
the very real psychological effects 
left behind by the cancer cluster, 
and these immeasurable mental and 
emotional fallout, as well as the still 
unknown physical effects, cannot be 
brushed aside, ” the students said in ACLU Files Lawsuit Against  
UCSD, A.S. Council
The American Civil Liberties Union of San Diego and 
Imperial Counties filed a lawsuit against UCSD and A.S. 
Council yesterday over the student government’s decision 
to defund all printed media last November. The lawsuit 
was filed on behalf of the satirical student newspaper The 
Koala and claims that A.S. Council “unconstitutionally 
eliminated funding for publication of student print media 
… because of the viewpoint of The Koala’s speech. ”
The formal complaint outlining the details of the 
lawsuit states that The Koala seeks to restore funding that 
A.S. Council allocates specifically for print media. The 
lawsuit lists UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, outgoing 
A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa and outgoing 
A.S. Financial Controller Tristan Britt as defendants 
representing UCSD and A.S. Council, respectively.
A.S. Council voted to defund student media on Nov. 18 
following a statement signed by Khosla and other UCSD 
administrators condemning The Koala for the “offensive 
and hurtful language it chooses to publish. ” The lawsuit 
alleges that email exchanges between UCSD officials 
indicate this statement was prompted by a satirical piece 
published by The Koala two days earlier mocking the 
concept of “safe spaces. ”The lawsuit claims that, though A.S. Council defunded 
all print media as forms of student speech, it continued 
to support other forms of speech through the funding of 
organizations such as Students Against Mass Incarceration, 
College Democrats at UCSD and others. 
Legal director of ACLU San Diego David Loy said that 
the purpose of the lawsuit was to uphold the principles 
of the First Amendment, which he believes UCSD, as a 
public institution, violated.
“However offensive and outrageous The Koala may 
be, its authors are writing about topical issues of public 
concern, ” Loy said in a press release. “No matter how 
offended I may be, it is still much worse to give government 
the power to decide what speech to censor. Once granted, 
that power will inevitably stifle protest and dissent. ”
Representatives from The Koala spoke to the UCSD 
Guardian about the lawsuit and expressed the belief that 
the outcome would be in their favor.
“The Koala is confident the outcome will go our 
way in this case, ” The Koala said. “The announcement 
of a favorable decision will set a precedent for future 
student organizations not to be unlawfully silenced by 
the administration. ”B y  josh  lefler      news editorUCSD
A.S. Council Votes to Ban Plastic Water Bottles
The Measure Stems from Janet Napolitano’s Challenge to UC to become “zero waste” by 2020.See LAWSUIT , page 3
CAMPUS
By  k r i t i  sa r i nPhoto courtesy of UC San Diego Publications, by Erik Jepsen
See LITERATURE , page 3 See BOTTLES , page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT #10 By Alex Liang
Regents Park Row
La Jolla Village DriveGenesseeRegents RoadExecutive Dr.
Dr. Wali Hamidy, D.M.D.
4150 Regents Park Row, #200, La Jolla, CA 92037
(858) 202-0481
lajolladentalimage.com
• Same Day Emergency               
Appointment Available
• We accept all PPOs and                   
UCSD Insurance Plans
• Financing Available OAC.New Patient Special
Regular Cleaning,* 
Exam & Digital X-Rays  
Only $60
*In absence of gum disease. Regular price $310. Expires June 30, 2017.
 Friendly and Knowledgeable Dentist and Staff
Avoid Cavities and Keep Your Teeth
Increase Your Confidence and Smile More
We will Listen to Your Concerns & Explain OptionsHealthy T eeth and Gums Are Important For Your Overall Health!
We 
welcome 
UCSD Staff 
& StudentsThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. 60 issues have come and gone and all I have left 
to say is... Vincent out.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer OUT
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias OUT
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon OUT
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler OUT
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson OUT
Sam Velazquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova OUT
Megan Lee OUT
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Co-Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editors
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper, Jacky To, Aleya Zenieris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim OUT, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Lauren Holt, Tia Ikemoto,
Maria Sebas, Nathan Walker, Matt ZamudioHALEY ASTURIAS
Cause of Death: Hit by a bus help -
ing a friend cross the street
Occupation: Facebook fiend
Achievements:  1k likes (created 
1,000 new Facbook accounts)
Survived by:  Peter McInnis
MYRAH JAFFER
Cause of Death: Crushing Lack 
of Debt
Occupation: Embezzling Officer
Achievements: Saved the Print 
Industry, One Issue at a Time
Survived by:  Debt and its friends
KEVIN SANTOS
Cause of Death:  Choked on tape 
recorder
Occupation: Muckracker
Achievements: TritonEdGate
Survived by:  The fruits of his 
investigative laborROSINA GARCIA
Cause of Death: Ain’t Fuckin’ wit 
Life anymore
Occupation: Rapper Supreme
Achievements:  More hits on 
You Tu b e  t h an  t h e  Gu ard i an
Survived by:  Ariana Grande
HEEJUNG LIM
Cause of Death:  Brain aneurysm 
after editing three sports articles
Occupation: Copy minion
Achievements:  Served in copy 
without complaint the longest
Survived by:  Scout Finch
EMILY TIPTON
Cause of Death:  Trampled by 
angry mobsters
Occupation: Staff photographer
Achievements: Finishing school 
alive
Survived by:  Authoritative figureMARIO ATTIE
Cause of Death:  Rhetorical Q
Occupation: Due to Philosophy 
major, academia for life 
Achievements: Forced Academy to 
give Iñárritu another Oscar
Survived by:  Soccer jerseys
DIETER JOUBERT
Cause of Death: Apartheid Guilt
Occupation:  Dreamer, Lover
Achievements:  Has successfully 
avoided swarm of Africanized bees
Survived by:  An eclectic collection 
of porcelain “Seinfeld” dolls
KRITI SARIN
Cause of Death:  Severe case of 
E. coli; unknown source
Occupation: Alligator wrangler
Achievements:  Made News Great 
Again
Survived by:  J&JCHRISTIAN GELLA
Cause of Death:  AsSASSinated 
Occupation: Anti-colonialist
Achievements: Gives better advice 
than your mom or psychiatrist
Survived by:  Numerous fruits of 
his poetic labor, his cabbages
SHELBY NEWALLIS
Cause of Death: Fainted at the 
sight of a God-like Italian man 
Occupation: Pretended to be a 
sommelier at a local winery
Achievements: Flirting Coach
Survived by:  Drinking companions
IAN LE TRAN
Cause of Death:  Opted for Tender 
Greens instead of Urban Plates
Occupation: “golf dad fashion”
Achievements: Go-to financial 
advisor
Survived by:  Legacy of kindnessADAM FISHER
Cause of Death: Read painfully 
boring novel with banal plot
Occupation:  Irreplaceable writer
Achievements: Ability to incorpo -
rate pun and wit into everything 
Survived by:  Iconic sarcasm
MEGAN LAO
Cause of Death: Attacked by sea 
lions
Occupation: Staff photographer
Achievements:  Met Matt Grevers
Survived by:  Her portfolio at the 
G office
GARY SINGH
Cause of Death:  Sudden-death (over -
time)
Occupation: Hyp(e)ster
Achievements: Launched #Spurtz
Survived by:  Last one standing, shout 
out to Brandon and Daniel legacyOLGA GOLUBKOVA
Cause of Death:  Accidentally 
struck by an Uber driver
Occupation: (Beloved) co-editor
Achievements: Pulled off overalls
Survived by:  Brittney Lu and any -
one else who wants this job
KARLY NISSON
Cause of Death: Lizard Attack
Occupation: Reptile Caretaker
Achievements: Travelled to Britain 
and met exotic lizards with, of 
course, British accents
Survived by:  Reptiles and Samson
TYNAN YANAGA
Cause of Death:  One too many 
unjust tv show cancellations
Occupation: 70 mm projectionist
Achievements: Spat in the eyes of 
multiple network presidents
Survived by:  Collective fan outrageJONATHAN GAO
Cause of Death:  Freak surfing 
accident 
Occupation: Hitchhiker
Achievements: Dental school
Survived by:  Images of his harrow -
ing journeys across the world
MEGAN LEE
Cause of Death: Little pot deal 
gone bad
Occupation: Photo Editor
Achievements: Not getting 
arrested for a little pot
Survived by:  A little pot
KYLE SOMERS
Cause of Death:  Excessive surfing
Occupation: Drinking beers and 
putting stickers on his MacBook
Achievements: Drinking beers and 
putting stickers on his MacBook
Survived by:  Six half-eaten piesYIDIAN HUANG
Cause of Death: Faulty chandelier 
in “Phantom of the Opera”
Occupation: Reading and reading
Achievements:  Surviving the quar -
ter system
Survived by:  The Fox and the Rabbit
SASHA POLLOCK
Cause of Death: Bing Crosby
Occupation: World Leader
Achievements: Raising a Family
Survived by:  Her Hand-Picked 
Legacy
ELYSE YANG
Cause of Death:  Working too hard
Occupation: Puppy Petter
Achievements: Awesome graphic 
design abilities and the cutest comic
Survived by:  A legion of fansVINCENT PHAM
Cause of Death: Lost in J. Crew, 
body never found
Occupation: Unemployed
Achievements: Almost finished 
puberty, photogenic af
Survived by:  GabeIn Loving Memory
Compiled by Jacky To / News EditorNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
͹#113&1
CMVFQSJOUMTBU ͙P^\
GbRP^QR 4"7& c^bMeR
Ά^]MEM]5WRU^4ZMbb͟
4VNNFSDPVSTFTGPSUIF4FQUFNCFS-4"5CFHJO +VOF BOE+VMZ
#-6&13*/5$"/)&-1
@^]^]^]^]^
@^]^]^]^Q^]ͭcfM]cc^
@^]^]^]^]^
2VMWYdMO^dcbcdQhW]US^a
UIF-4"5
Foundation for Individual Rights 
in Education representative Ari Cohn 
commented on the lawsuit, saying that 
the First Amendment is important to 
preserving an atmosphere of debate 
and diverse opinion on campus.
“It is important to remember that 
a university is a place of learning and 
knowledge creation, ” Cohn told the 
Guardian. “Those pursuits require 
critical thinking skills and rigorous 
debate, which is only possible in 
a system that respects freedom of 
speech and creates of marketplace of 
ideas where positions and theories 
can be discussed and ultimately 
accepted or rejected. ” 
Incoming A.S. President Daniel 
Juarez argued that the lawsuit is not 
warranted and clarified that The 
Koala can receive funds through A.S. Council’s programming budget for 
student organizations. 
“I think they could utilize their 
resources in a more productive way; 
as a whole, I think it’s a waste of 
time, ” Juarez told the Guardian. 
“There really is no actual problem 
because they do have access to 
programming funding just like any 
other student organization. ”
ACLU San Diego emphasized 
in its press release that, though it 
plans to represent The Koala in 
the lawsuit, it does not endorse the 
content of its newspaper.
“The ACLU sympathizes with 
students who are concerned about 
the reactions to The Koala’s content, 
especially by those who have suffered 
violence, racism, sexual abuse, or 
other traumas, ” the statement read. 
“We find this content disturbing too. 
But the First Amendment protects ‘outrageous and outlandish’ speech 
that is often contained in publications 
such as The Koala, however vulgar 
and offensive they may be. ” 
In 2010, A.S. Council voted to 
defund print media in response to 
The Koala broadcasting content 
containing racial slurs and in support 
of the “Compton Cookout” on the 
closed-circuit Student Run Television 
channel, which was promptly shut 
down due to the incident. Funding 
was shortly restored.
The UCSD Guardian is a self-
funded newspaper and was not 
affected by the A.S. Council’s decision 
to defund media.
Both Suvonnasupa and Britt 
declined to comment on the litigation.
to collaborate…We reached out to 
Vice President for ASEJA Moon 
Thevada early on to begin work on 
the A.S. Resolution and she has been 
very helpful for us communicating 
with the AS council. [With] a team 
of very supportive and passionate 
interns, it makes working on the 
campaign enjoyable. ”
Both Pankam and Liao see 
the next steps to be continuing 
to spread awareness about the 
campaign and collaborating with 
HDH, UCSD vendors and the larger 
UCSD community.
HDH Sustainability manager 
Krista Mays reiterated that they 
will continue supporting and 
implementing sustainably-minded policies for our campus.
“HDH agreed to discontinue 
selling single-serve bottled water in 
May 2011 when students brought 
forward the AS & SSC endorsed 
“Resolution To Endorse Breaking 
the Plastic Habit” , ” Mays said to the 
Guardian. “HDH committed then 
to remove single-serve water bottles 
from Dining areas in Fall 2012 and 
to remove single serve bottled water 
from our next contract.  Bottled 
water was removed from Dining in 
Fall 2012.  Our next contract begins 
in September and HDH will not carry 
single-serve bottled water in Dining 
or Markets. In an effort to ensure 
that water is easily available, HDH 
has installed hydration locations in 
all of its Housing & Dining areas and 
distributes free reusable bottles to all residents every year. ”
Liao hopes to bring the 
campaign to the attention of faculty 
and administration to foster more 
support.
“Since we have the support 
of the A.S. [Council], which 
includes the college councils, we 
will be approaching the faculty via 
the Academic Senate to pass the 
resolution, ” Liao told the Guardian. 
“We will also be talking to other 
administrators before approaching 
the vice chancellors to work with 
them, to see what’s best for UCSD in 
approaching this campaign before 
proposing the policy to Chancellor 
Khosla. ”the petition.
According to Zhang, many 
occupants of the Literature Building 
hope to move to a new facility, slated 
for construction, called the North 
Torrey Pines Living and Learning 
Neighborhood. 
Facilities Design & Construction 
Principal Architect Matthew Smith 
told the UCSD Guardian it has yet 
to be decided whether or not the 
Literature Building will be a part of 
the plans.
“Development of the North 
Torrey Pines facility is in concept 
phase, ” Smith explained. “The future 
tenants are not yet fully defined. 
Until then, we won’t been able to 
solidify dates. There are going to 
be two academic buildings, which 
are thought to be social sciences 
and arts and humanities. [It’s not 
certain] if literature is one of the 
units that will be moving. ”
Zhang told the Guardian that 
while there may be long-term plans 
to move the literature department to 
a safer facility, there still needs to be 
a more immediate option for those 
concerned with building safety. 
“Ideally, the campus 
administration can find enough 
space to house the entire department 
in one place as soon as possible, ” 
Zhang said. “[It can] at least provide 
extra space outside the building for 
people who feel unsafe working 
inside. ”
Sixth College junior and literature major Katerina Lahr-Pastor said 
that she does everything she can to 
minimize the time she spends in the 
Literature Building, and due to the 
elevator’s past history of emitting 
potentially high electromagnetic 
fields, she takes extra effort to take 
the stairs.
“It could just be a coincidence, 
but it’s too much to just ignore, ” 
Lahr-Pastor said. “I never take the 
elevator, I always take the stairs. It’s 
four years of my time here, so I try 
to spend as little time as possible in 
the building. ”
History graduate student Juan 
Carmona Zabala currently works in 
the Literature Building and signed 
the petition, citing the demands as 
reasonable to appease occupants’ 
worries.
“I signed the petition because it 
makes sense to ask for a retesting 
of the building and for people to 
request to be relocated elsewhere 
on campus, ” Zabala said. “[Without 
retesting,] people [in the Literature 
Building] think they’re in danger of 
getting sick. I think this university 
has plenty of space that could house 
people. ”
A Town Hall meeting will be 
held Thursday, June 2, at the Price 
Center East Forum Meeting Room 
where campus administration will 
meet with concerned faculty and 
staff to discuss the issue.SSC Hopes Academic Senate Will Also Pass Watter Bottle ResolutionJuarez: Koala Can Still Receive Programming Funding from A.S. Council Admin to Host T own Hall Meeting Next Week
▶ LITERATURE,  from page 1 ▶ LAWSUIT,  from page 1
▶ BOTTLES,  from page 1josh  lefler   jlefty@ucsd.edu
becca chong   rcchong@ucsd.edukevin santos   kksantos@ucsd.edu
In Lifestyle article “Personal Finance Management Course, ” published 
on May 26, the writer mentioned the MGT 16 class. She was instead 
referring to MGT 12. 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
MAKEBA’S
CORNER
HAND & 
HEART
MUSLIM IN 
AMERICA
Y ear  in  
review
BRANDON
REYNANTEAYAT
AMINMAKEBA 
JONES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “ “ “AN EXPLORATION 
OF ENGINEERING 
VIA SOMETHING 
IT OFTEN LACKS: 
HUMANTARIANISMA DISCUSSION OF 
MUSLIM IDENTITY VIA 
FEMINISM, LOCATION, 
POPULATION, AND 
TERRORISM.A REFLECTION AND 
CRITIQUE ON LEARNING 
AND EDUCATION EQUITY 
AT THE COLLEGE LEVEL 
AND BEYOND.COLUMNSA & E
LIFESTYLE
E
DIT
ORIALS“A  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deafheaven
 by Dieter  JoubertAnom AlisA 
by mArio AttieCOnCeRT R evIeW MOvIe RevIeWFEATURES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 THE $100 
 CHALLENGE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In SPRI nG, LIfeSTYL e TOOK TO a WeeKLY BUDG eT TO TRULY G aUGe 
hOW MI nDfUL COLL eGe STUD enTS aRe Of TheIR SP enDInG
THE LONG LINE 
TO GET HELP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Earlier this year, 
UCSD’s Intercollegiate 
Athletics Department 
won an award for 
promoting diversity and 
inclusion on campus.“A D ifferent  KinD 
of Accol ADe”
by Marcus  Thuillier
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“BAre on
 BlAcK’S B eAcH”
  BY aLvIn Chan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ILLUSTRA TION  B Y ALEX LIANG
ILLUSTRA TION B Y 
CHRISTINA CARLSONPhoto by Haocheng Tang
ILLUSTRA TION B Y
 EL Y SE Y ANGILLUSTRA TIONS B Y EL Y SE Y ANG ILLUSTRA TION  B Y ALEX LIANG
ILLUSTRA TION  B Y  ALEX  LEE
“THE TRUE 
GENTLMEN”UCSD 
Water Polo
 Heads 
To NCAA 
TournamentOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
JUNE 3 • 3-6PM 
RIMAC FIELD
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!NEWS
SPORTS
 
 
 
 
 by   a   5 8   P E R C E N T 
margin, STUDENTS 
VOTE  to   go  
D1.
35  PERCENT  of the student 
bod y turned out to vote.STUD enTS PROT eST anTI-
aBORTIO n DeMOnSTR aTIOn On 
LIBR aRY W aLK.1/21/16
 
 
 
 
 10/22/15BY KRITI  SaRInBY KRITI  SaRIn
Sae PLeDGe CaUGhT 
aSKInG STUD enT fOR 
TOPL eSS PICTUR e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 STUD enTS anD faCULTY hOLD C haLK-B aCK 
In ReSPOnSe TO TRUMP C haLKInGS anD 
even TS L eaDInG UP TO T heM.4/21/16
BY JOSh LefLeR
 
 
 
 
 
 
UnIveRSITY ann OUnCeS PL anS TO 
PeRManen TLY CLOS e aRT G aLLeRY, M aKInG 
UCSD T he OnLY UC WIT hOUT O ne5/23/16
BY JaCKY  TO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a.S. COU nCIL CUTS fUnDInG 
fOR PRI nT MeDIa, fOR 
WhICh The aCLU IS nOW 
SUInG UCSD, OUTGOI nG 
a.S. P ReSIDenT DOMI nICK 
SUvOnna SUP a anD OUTGOI nG 
a.S. fInan CIaL COnTROLL eR 
TRIST an BRITT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11/23/15BY JULIe YIP
Photo by Christian Duarte /UCSD GuardianPhoto by Geoff Palomino
Photo by Megan LeeYour Student Uni nYour University Centers Starbucks® Barista Team  
We are here for you!
Hours:
Monday – Friday   7am to 11pm
Saturday   8am to 11pm  •  Sunday   9:30am to 11pm
Price Center West, Level 1Finals Week  
Drink Special
5pm to close
 All Grande (16 oz.) Cold  
Beverages only $2!
Drink special includes all iced or blended beverages 
including iced teas, iced coffees, and iced espresso 
beverages (Frappuccinos® not included). Promotion is valid 
at this location from 5pm to close starting June 6 ending 
June 9, 2016. See store for details.
Only at your UC San Diego Campus Starbucks®
SBUXGuardianAd_FNL.indd   1 5/31/16   1:31 PM6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Arts & Entertainment Editor: Jacqueline Kim  •  entertainment@ucsdguardian.org
                 Lifestyle Editor: Vincent Pham  •  lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgIdentification Card 
Have your UCSD ID ready at 
ALL times. Even if many UCSD 
shuttle drivers do not check, some 
do! And you’re keeping everyone 
waiting as you fiddle through all 
the condoms and D’lush coupons in 
your wallet. Keep your ID out and 
move it along, buster!
Where to Sit
Avoid sitting in any of the seats 
before the first set of back doors. 
Handicapped people, pregnant 
women and senior citizens need 
these seats, so don’t make them suffer 
because you’re tired from running 
after a bus that probably should have 
left you behind.
Where to Stand
Moving back is the one action 
that college students just don’t 
seem to get. My heart has been 
broken too many times from 
seeing a bus driver skip stops 
due to “maximum capacity” 
despite having only a half-filled 
bus of spread out, inconsiderate millennials standing in the middle 
of the bus watching videos of Jimmy 
Fallon lip sync to Mariah Carey. It’s 
not that funny!
Be a friend and close the gaps 
between you and your fellow riders. 
It’s okay to make shirt-to-shirt 
contact.
How to Change UCSD’s Bus 
Culture
You may think our campus’ 
bus culture, like the U.S. political 
machine, is plagued by a corrupt 
campaign finance system. Sorry 
Bernie Bros., it’s not. But it is plagued 
by apathy, ambivalence and assholes! 
Students : The next time you see any person or group break any of our 
well-described rules, yell at them. 
Loudly! “MOVE BACK. ” And they 
will! I promise. 
Bus Drivers : Get your riders under 
control. Y ou don’t serve them; they 
serve you. 
UCSD Administration:  Revoke the 
bus stickers of any students who 
violate these rules.  
How to Watch Porn on UCSD 
Shuttle Buses
1. Turn your head and eyes towards 
every single corner of the bus to see 
if anyone is looking at you or your 
phone (sneaky rats have no business 
sniffing into your business)
2. Turn the volume on your phone 
all the way down (precautions are 
necessary)
3. Stick your headphone jack into 
your phone; press firmly on it 3 times 
to make sure it is sufficiently plugged 
in (you don’t want an oopsies)
4. Open up desired videos (or 
literature, if preferred)
5. Have a good ride :)Good Excuses to Use if 
Caught
1. I’m watching this for a friend.
2. This isn’t what it looks like; I’m 
watching people have sex.
3. Bernie made me do it!
4. As an econ major, I study jobs. 
There are all kinds of jobs in this 
video.
5. My girl/boyfriend doesn’t love me!Bus Etiquette
Written by Jacky To //
Contributing Writer
Photo courtesy of Ron MirielloBioengineering, quantum physics, Nietzsche — these are all areas of knowledge that UCSD students possess some 
understanding of. Bus etiquette, however, exists far outside the purview of even the most intelligent Tritons. Overly 
crowded buses are, indeed, an issue, but under-crowded buses are even worse. Next time you step foot on an MTS or 
UCSD shuttle, follow these tips for not being a bus-hole.
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/hostPhoto courtesy of Ron Miriello8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
entertainment 
2016  SUMMER      PREVIEW
Films
GENIUS
Release Date: June 10
Written by Yidian Huang // Senior Staff Writer
THE FOUNDER
Release Date: August 5
Written by Tynan Yanaga // Senior Staff WriterNINE LIVES
Release Date: August 5
Written by Josh Leﬂer // Staff Writer
THE CONJURING 2
Release Date: June 10
Written by Jacky To// Senior Staff WriterSTAR TREK BEYOND
Release Date: July 22
Written by Alicia Lepler // Contributing WriterNOW YOU SEE ME 2
Release Date: June 10
Written by Megan Chang // Contributing WriterSWISS ARMY MAN
Release Date: June 24
Written by Jacky To // Senior Staff WriterSUICIDE SQUAD
Release Date: August 5
Written by Naftali Burakovsky // A&E Editorial Assistant JASON BOURNE
Release Date: July 29
Written by Peter McInnis // Senior Staff Writer
FINDING DORY
Release Date: June 17
Written by Naftali Burakovsky// A&E Editorial AssistantTHE LIGHT BETWEEN OCEANS
Release Date: September 2
Written by Dieter Joubert // Senior Staff Writer“Genius” portrays the relationship between American 
writer Thomas Wolfe (Jude Law) and his editor, 
Maxwell Perkins (Colin Firth), who also edited 
works by F . Scott Fitzgerald (Guy Pearce) and Ernest 
Hemingway (Dominic West). Perkins and Wolfe’s 
relationship is widely suspected as romantic, even 
though Wolfe was also the lover of a married costume 
designer, Aline Bernstein (Nicole Kidman), who 
supported and funded him. The film aims at depicting 
both the complicated love affairs and the editing 
process of Wolfe’s incredibly lengthy novels. Michael 
Grandage is an award-winning theater director who has 
demonstrated his artistic talent in stage productions. 
Whether his debut film is as skillfully crafted remains 
in doubt.
“Super size me” has been the American way for so 
long it’s easy to take it for granted. But “The Founder, ” 
following the meteoric rise of the Golden Arches and 
its ruthless visionary Ray Kroc, promises to delve into 
the nitty gritty behind one of the great empires of the 
modern era. Michael Keaton is once again jostling for 
the awards circuit following stellar performances in 
“Birdman” (2014) and “Spotlight” (2015). While capable 
behind the camera, director John Lee Hancock is more 
adept at helming feel-good dramas (“The Blindside” 
and “Saving Mr. Banks”) than Oscar bait, although a 
more acerbic tone could prove expedient.  In the tradition of timeless classics such as 
“The Lobster” and “The Shaggy Dog, ” auteur 
Barry Sonnenfeld’s “Nine Lives” intends to 
once again set a new standard for the body-
horror genre. Academy Award-winner Kevin 
Spacey plays a detached business tycoon in the 
midst of an existential crisis — a wandering 
soul searching for a purpose. Then he gets 
turned into a cat. The feline Spacey embarks 
on a journey of introspection and cosmic 
self-actualization that will surely win over the 
hearts of all pet owners. Christopher W alken’s 
in it too.
After launching the “Saw” and “Insidious” 
franchises as well as taking on action 
blockbusters — “Furious 7” and the upcoming 
“ Aquaman” — James W an has quietly 
become one of the most successful directors 
in Hollywood. Knowing this, his decision 
to return to helm the sequel to his strongest 
project to date, “The Conjuring, ” is exciting 
to say the least. Promising both thrills and 
emotion, not to mention the ever-reliable 
Patrick Wilson, “The Conjuring 2” is set to be 
another hit to add to Wan’s resume.After a bumpy production period, “Star Trek 
Beyond” will finally be hitting the silver screen 
this summer, courtesy of “Fast and Furious” 
alumnus Justin Lin. With the director of the 
series’ previous two installments, J.J. Abrams, 
having departed for greener and “Star Wars”-
ier fields, it’s a question of whether Lin can 
keep the Paramount-funded franchise afloat. 
The answer? Well, “Beyond’s” first released 
trailer speaks eloquently for Lin with a 
smorgasbord of flashes, explosions and space 
battles, all set to the tune of the Beastie Boys’ 
“Sabotage. ” A little closer to “Fast and Furious” 
than classic “Trek. ”“Now Y ou See Me 2, ” the sequel to the surprise 
2013 hit “Now Y ou See Me, ” picks up a 
year after The Four Horsemen were tricked 
during one of their own shows and somehow 
ended up in China. Woody Harrelson, 
Jesse Eisenberg and Dave Franco all reprise 
their previous roles in the band of criminal 
magicians, with Lizzy Caplan taking the place 
of a pregnant Isla Fisher. Daniel Radcliffe is 
the biggest new name in this sequel, playing 
the tech prodigy behind the trickery of The 
Four Horseman. We’ll have to wait until June 
10 to see whether the magicians will be able to 
outwit the very magical Radcliffe. “The best preparation for acting is life. ” How does 
this apply when one is playing the dead? Such is the 
case in “Swiss Army Man, ” in which Daniel Radcliffe 
is no longer “the boy who lived, ” but instead the man 
who died. When Hank — an island-stranded, suicidal 
loner played by Paul Dano — discovers the body on 
an abandoned island, he learns that there’s more to this 
corpse than meets the eye (it farts). Honored by this 
year’s Sundance Festival jury with the award for Best 
Directing, “Swiss Army Man” is sure to inspire half of 
its audience and madden the other.“Suicide Squad” is shaping up to be an 
off-kilter, high-octane summer action 
movie with a ridiculous Hot Topic 
aesthetic, featuring Margot Robbie as a 
baseball bat-wielding Harley Quinn for an 
additional dash of insanity. After March’s 
disappointing “Batman v. Superman, ” this 
film will be the hero that Warner Bros. 
needs and hopefully deserves.Matt Damon returns to the infamous role 
of Jason Bourne with the same car chases, 
intrigue and badass hand-to-hand combat of 
previous “Bourne Identity” films. After refusing 
to get involved with “The Bourne Legacy, ” 
Damon and director Paul Greengrass hope 
to bring to “Jason Bourne” the same intensity 
and intricacy that the original trilogy had. Julia 
Stiles will stand as the only other reminder of 
the past movies, as “Jason Bourne” adds a new 
cast of Tommy Lee Jones, Alicia Vikander and 
Ato Essandoh to the franchise. Now having 
fully recovered from his amnesia, Bourne seeks 
to learn more about his past and the history of 
the Black Ops. CIA kill squad that made him 
what he is today.
Fans of the famous fish duo, Marlin and Dory, 
have been begging for a sequel to “Finding 
Nemo” for years. Thankfully, Pixar, the 
animation power-house that consistently melts 
our hearts, understands the virtue of patience. 
After 13 years, a new generation of kids will 
want a Blue Tang as their first pet, the species 
that Dory, the adorable and forgetful star of the 
film, belongs to.In the wake of World War I, a 
psychologically scarred lighthouse keeper 
and his barren wife find a baby in a rowboat 
that has washed up on shore. Is this a gift 
from God or mere happenstance? Would 
it be wrong to keep the baby rather than 
finding her parents?
This predicament is ripe for Derek 
Cianfrance, who has made a name for 
himself as a master of directing films about 
troubled relationships (“Blue Valentine”), 
which sometimes have a dose of moral 
quandary thrown in (“The Place Beyond 
The Pines”). With powerhouse thespian 
couple Michael Fassbender and Alicia 
Vikander at the helm, this could be an early 
Oscar contender. 
TeleVisionMR. ROBOT
Release Date: July 13
Written by Derek Deng // Staff WriterORANGE IS THE 
NEW BLACK
Release Date: June 17
Written by Joselynn Ordaz // Staff WriterUSA Network’s cyber thriller, “Mr. Robot, ” returns 
for what looks to be a hectic second season this July. 
Following Season 1’s frenzied revelations, Season 2 
looks to drill deeper into Elliot Alderson’s (Rami Malek) 
broken psyche and fevered hallucinations. And as Mr. 
Robot tells Elliot in the trailer, it’s going to be their 
“infinite loop of insanity. ”With a release date set a week after finals, Season 4 of 
the Netflix original series “Orange Is the New Black” 
makes its return at a binge-friendly time. Trailers 
tease a suspenseful return to Litchfield with all new 
inmates and guards, and the promise of more insight 
into all of what Season 3 left open-ended. Expect 
to see Piper (Taylor Schilling) get herself into deep 
trouble and remain among the least liked characters 
of the show, while series regulars Flaca (Jackie Cruz), 
Taystee (Danielle Brooks), Big Boo (Lea DeLaria) 
and company continue to reign as fan favorites. 
YOU’RE THE WORST
Release Date: August 31
Written by Sam Velazquez // Associate A&E Editor
By all counts, Jimmy (Chris Geere) and Gretchen 
(Aya Cash) are terrible people. Callous to a fault 
and inconsiderate of the very world that surrounds 
them, they have found a twisted (if not benign) love 
between themselves. Their vitriolic relationship has 
anchored the show as one of the outright funniest 
and most real shows on television, never trading in 
authenticity for the sake of a few cheap laughs. Last 
season’s depiction of depression on screen may be 
the most honest  to have aired on television, toeing 
the line between comedy and drama with aplomb. 
“You’re the Worst” may be focused on some terrible 
people, but television has rarely been this great.
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZalbums
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
entertainment 
2016  SUMMER      PREVIEWSREMMLIFE 2
BY RAE SREMMURD
Release Date: June 24
Written by Sam Velazquez // Associate A&E Editor
FITZ & THE TANTRUMS
BY FITZ & THE TANTRUMS
Release Date: June 10
Written by Melissa Palafox // Staff Writer
LAST YEAR WAS 
COMPLICATED 
BY NICK JONAS
Release Date: June 10
Written by Melissa Palafox // Staff WriterPUBERTY 2
BY MITSKI
Release Date: June 17
Written by Joselynn Ordaz // Staff WriterNINTH STUDIO ALBUM
BY BRITNEY SPEARS
Release Date: TBA
Written by Susie Davidson // Staff WriterTHE MAGIC
BY DEERHOOF
Release Date: June 24
Written by Alicia Lepler // Contributing Writer
NOTHING’S REAL
BY SHURA
Release Date: July 8
Written by Joselynn Ordaz // Staff WriterWHY ARE YOU OK?
BY BAND OF HORSES
Release Date: June 10
Written by Melissa Palafox // Staff Writer
DIGITAL DISTORTION
BY IGGY AZALEA
Release Date: June 24
Written by Jacky To // Senior Staff WriterTHE GLOWING MAN
BY SWANS
Release Date: June 17
Written by Josh Leﬂer // Staff Writer
Rae Sremmurd has already proven that they’re 
the wave of the future through their all-too-
prophetic lyrics. The two brothers are more 
than just in touch with the youth — they’re 
in touch with the sociopolitical climate of 
this very nation. While analysts continued to 
fumble and project Jeb Bush as the Republican 
front-runner last year, the Mississippi natives 
recorded “Up Like Trump” on their debut — 
an ode to the swagger of America’s favorite 
technicolor businessman, with a beat that 
bangs harder than Ted Cruz on a Bible. If that’s 
what they came out of the gate with, we may 
not be ready for their follow-up.
Known for their hits, “The Walker” and 
“Out of my League,” Fitz and the Tantrums 
revive their neo-retro sound with an 
upcoming self-titled album available June 
10. Their latest single “Handclap” shows 
that they are no strangers to synths and 
electrifying energies. The band is known 
to perform in concerts with a captivating 
charisma, shouting lyrics to captivate 
the audience through their music. If 
“Handclap” is anything like the album in 
whole, then listeners will get to experience 
that same dynamic energy at home by 
listening to this album. 
Bring on the screaming teenage girls. 
After the success of  his previous album, 
“Nick Jonas X2, ” Jonas decides to slow 
down and sensualize his style. Definitely 
drifting from the pop sound of the Jonas 
Brothers, Jonas experiments with R&B and 
electronic sounds in his preview tracks 
for his June 10 release, “Last Year Was 
Complicated. ” Singles like “Close” and 
“Chainsaw” contain lyrics from passion 
and hurt that will show listeners how he 
has matured as an artist. Oh, and don’t get 
me started on the music videos.With only two released singles, Mitski’s 
new album “Puberty 2” is already proving 
to be the older, more mature sibling of its 
2014 predecessor “Bury Me at Makeout 
Creek. ” In what is to be her fourth full-
length studio release, the 25-year-old 
singer-songwriter basks in newfound 
confidence as she tackles the personal 
issues of identity, happiness and sadness 
that come with growing older. The record 
maintains the same raw intensity and 
bittersweet honesty in music and lyrics 
that has come to be expected of Mitski, 
only this time there’s a bright light at the 
end of the tunnel. Britney Spears has defined and embodied 
21st-century popular music and American pop 
culture since 1997. Spears’ manufactured and 
highly packaged, but undeniably effervescent, 
sound has been emulated again and again 
since the turn of the century. In the aftermath 
of her superstardom, countless Spears 
wannabes have tried to match her power with 
cheap imitations of her music and contrived 
spins on her brand. Store-brand Britneys like 
Katy Perry and Taylor Swift have tried to steal 
her ingenious unoriginality and sex appeal. 
Come this summer, she is sure to reassert her 
title as the princess of pop. With two off-kilter singles, “Debut” and 
“Plastic Thrills, ” Deerhoof is poised to 
return with yet another alt-rock album. 
It’s delivered consistently kooky fare for 
the last 20 years, and “The Magic” seems 
no different, filled with eclectic pop 
riffs and edged by Satomi Matsuzaki’s 
distorted, girlish vocals. The laid-back 
beats and syncopated lyrics make for 
easy listening, even though Deerhoof is 
retreading old ground for its latest release.
Has Shura finished her album yet? The 
answer is finally yes, it’s titled “Nothing’s 
Real” and is set to be released on July 
8. Her debut album comes highly 
anticipated (and not to mention long-
awaited) for those who have had her 
on their radar since her first breakout 
single “Touch” in 2014. Given the hype 
surrounding her debut EP “White Light” 
in 2015 and the recent single “What’s 
It Gonna Be?” the album is sure(a) to 
be a collection of beautifully produced 
synth-pop records. Needless to say, 
expectations are at an all-time high. It’s been four years since we last heard 
from Band of Horses, but with their latest 
single, “Casual Party, ” it will be like nothing 
changed. Many caught a glimpse of their 
soulful and folky style in their 2006 hit 
single, “The Funeral, ” but fast forward 10 
years and their upcoming album titled, 
“Why Are You OK?” might just contain 
some of that same lovable sound. The 
band’s melodious vocals can be heard in the 
upcoming album’s preview tracks backed 
by a mix of electric guitar strokes and 
background vocals, giving the upcoming 
album a very beachy vibe that is perfect for 
the summer.
I-g-g-why does Iggy Azalea keep coming 
out with music? Whether you consider her 
music a guilty pleasure or just plain guilty, 
it is undeniable that the Australian Azalean 
has done more damage to hip-hop than any 
songs promoting violence or drug usage 
ever could. The singles off her upcoming 
project “Digital Distortion” have exhibited 
all the irritating rambunctiousness of her 
previous work minus the radio catchiness 
that made them bearable. With her stardom 
already in freefall, look out for this album 
to finally put her in the ground.Michael Gira continues The Swan’s self-
established, perennial cycle of creation 
and destruction; with “The Glowing Man, ” 
the experimental rock group finds itself 
once again at the end of an age. This is 
the final album to be released using the 
band’s current lineup. The released tracklist 
indicates “The Glowing Man” will at the 
least be another nearly two hour endurance 
test. But those who dare to take the journey 
are sure to be greeted by musical passages 
of biblical fury; it’s music made for the 
storm, and it ain’t ever sounded more 
breath-taking.
ConcertsSince the release of their sophomore 
album, “ Adore Life, ” earlier this year, 
Savages have maintained a booked 
schedule — headlining shows, TV 
appearances and festival performances all 
over the world. Sure to delight local fans, 
the post-punk four-piece recently added 
some U.S. dates to their “ Adore Life” tour, 
including a stop at The Observatory North 
Park in late July. If their recent Coachella 
performance is any indication of what 
their live show is like, expect both a dark, 
cathartic show that oozes sex appeal and a 
mosh pit that is sure to ensue.BOB DYLAN 
AT HUMPHREY’S 
CONCERTS BY THE BAY
Date: June 13–14
Written by Matthew Zamudio // Contributing WriterSWITCHFOOT
AT DEL MAR FAIRGROUNDS
Date: June 3
Written by Tynan Yanaga // Senior Staff WriterSAVAGES
AT THE OBSERVATORY 
NORTH PARK
Date: July 29
Written by Joselynn Ordaz // Staff Writer
What better way to spend a Monday than 
with Bob Dylan? On June 13–14 the “voice 
of a generation” will be performing at 
Humphrey’s Concerts By The Bay in what 
could be the 75-year-old musician’s last U.S. 
tour. Tickets aren’t cheap, and it’s likely that 
most of the songs he’ll play will be from 
his latest LP , “Fallen Star, ” an American 
standards cover album. But fear not: Dylan 
is known to squeeze crowd favorites into the 
nooks and crannies of his set lists. He isn’t 
same Dylan we know and love — he’s old, 
feeble and vocally squeaky. But music lovers 
everywhere are obliged to witness the rock 
legend onstage one last time. Led by charismatic lead Jon Foreman, Switchfoot has 
carved out a niche for themselves with the alternative 
crowd. But beyond that, as San Diego locals, the 
band still maintains close ties with the community. 
In preparation for their 10th album, “Where the 
Light Shines Through, ” set to be released on July 8th, 
the group plans to kick things off by serenading the 
hometown crowd at the Del Mar 
Fairgrounds -- an admittedly quaint 
venue to launch a tour. However, 
their sets are always oriented 
towards the audience, welcoming 
them into the experience as equal 
partners in a communal sing-
a-long, no matter the size of the 
stadium. Look for it to be laid-back 
but still unpredictably entertaining. 
ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUU
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANGILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LEE10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After a gloomy workweek, the 
taco gods seemed to smile on San 
Diego on Saturday, May 21 as the 
clouds subsided for the SD Taco Fest. 
Located at the Waterfront Park 
downtown, the lawn was studded 
with white tents, a stage and a 
wrestling ring — facilities that would 
entertain the taco-loving residents 
of sunny San Diego for nearly eight 
hours as the event ran from 11 a.m. 
to 10 p.m. Tall, circular tables were 
scattered around the field for speedy 
taco eating, hinting at the carnivorous 
prowess required at a festival 
dedicated to tacos. 
As the first attendees began 
to pour through the gates, cuts 
of meat could be heard sizzling 
from the 20 taco vendors that had 
been given the chance to prove 
themselves to the community. For 
taco fanatics, this was an orgasmic 
sight: There were tacos and beer 
as far as the eye could see — 
margaritas, too, for good measure. 
To try a taco from every taco 
stand would be the ultimate challenge and the only way to know, 
without any doubt, which taco 
maker was the best. All 20 vendors 
shamelessly claimed to have “the 
best tacos in San Diego, ” which 
severely complicated the ranking 
process. Perhaps the determined 
taco eater would be able to 
complete this challenge and identify 
San Diego’s taco ruler, but my 
stomach resigned after trying five of 
the purported best tacos in town.  
The first two were from Lolita’s: a 
chicken taco and a carne asada taco. 
I squirted some bottled salsa onto 
the meat and found the nearest table. 
They looked okay, I thought. Y es, the 
tortillas were a bit soggy, and yes, 
my carne asada may have resembled 
brown lego blocks, but I sunk my 
teeth in anyway. I was hungry, and it 
could have been because of this that 
Lolita’s tacos didn’t taste half bad. 
That is until I tried Tako Factory, 
whose tent stood near the middle 
of the row vendors. Four of your 
average, everyday bros were working 
the stand. They called me over. Their hats were pulled backward and their 
glasses were reflective, causing me, 
for a moment, to question their taco 
authority. But when I asked them to 
serve me two of their best items and 
was given a melted queso shrimp 
taco and a pollo asado taco, my 
opinion of the bros shifted. I tried 
only one more vendor after their 
stand, but it wasn’t the same. Tako 
Factory had stolen my heart.  
On the right side of the grassy 
field, music blared from massive 
speakers onstage as the B-Side Players 
played a set for a sparse audience. 
Four more acts would play after 
them, leading up to the headliner 
of the event: Sir Mix-A-Lot. People 
watched the performers and swayed 
to the music, but tacos can become 
quite paralyzing when eaten in mass 
quantities, and only a few had it in 
them to dance. 
What seemed the biggest 
attraction at the SD Taco Fest was 
in many ways the unlikeliest. On 
the opposite side of the field, in 
the aforementioned wrestling ring, lucha libre fights were happening 
hourly, and attendees crowded 
around in the hundreds. 
They cheered, laughed and spilled 
their drinks in the excitement as 
lucha libre fighters made exaggerated 
attacks and performed mind-blowing 
stunts. Screams of “Body slam him!” 
were often heard, and when each 
fight finished, a perceivable feeling of 
disappointment coursed through the 
crowd. But when the PA announced 
the time of the next fight, the normal 
excitement returned. 
Although far from the cheapest 
outing in San Diego last weekend, 
the SD Taco Fest was an apparent 
success. The perfect place for 
eating, drinking, enjoying music 
and watching dramatized fights, 
the festival provided the bare 
essentials for seasoned San 
Diegans: tacos, beer and warm 
weather. If you’re over 21 years 
old, check out next year’s Taco 
Fest — if for no other reason, for 
the grown men in spandex body-
slamming each other. THE SAN DIEGO TACO FEST
Written by Matthew Zamudio // Contributing Writer
Photos by Matthew Zamudio // UCSD Guardian
Kinky in the Kitchen by BRITTNEY LU // LIFESTYLE CO-EDITOR
Ingredients:
Basic Oatmeal:
2/3 cup Water
1/3 cup Instant Oatmeal
Toasted Banana Oatmeal:
One banana
Butter
2/3 cup Milk
Cinnamon
Honey
Sliced Almonds
Greek Y ogurt (optional)One can never really go 
wrong with this honorable 
breakfast tradition; versatile 
yet straightforward, oatmeal has 
been the timeless anthem of busy 
mornings, health enthusiasts 
and retirement homes. While it 
might not be the most exciting 
of breakfast items, and is usually 
considered just another “healthy 
alternative to fruit loops, ” when 
paired with the right toppings, 
oatmeal can actually be enjoyable 
to eat. To make this fiber-filled 
delicacy, add 2/3 cup of water to a 
bowl of 1/3 cup of instant oatmeal 
and microwave for two to three 
minutes, stirring intermittently. 
Quick to make and incredibly 
filling, this classic is both 
convenient for the college student’s 
breakfast and a staple for the 
90-year-old on the go. Full of fiber, 
calcium and potassium, oatmeal 
is key to helping lower blood pressure, and, let’s be honest, with 
finals a mere few days away, we 
could all use a tablespoon or two 
of anything that lowers BP . While 
two ingredients is hard to beat 
(heck, one of the two being water), 
this classic could use a well-
deserved makeover.
Now, let’s get kinky.
Toasted Banana Oatmeal Recipe
While upgrading plain oatmeal 
usually means turning toward the 
prepackaged oatmeal seasoned with 
brown sugar, dehydrated “apples” or 
raisins, try out a homemade recipe 
instead. Prepackaged oatmeal 
typically contains more than the 
needed dosage of daily sugar and 
carbohydrate intake. Instead, opt 
for real fruits as a topping (looking 
at you, dehydrated apple), and 
instead of artificial sweeteners and 
“powdered cream, ” try natural fruit 
sugars or honey and milk. 
For this recipe, slice up one banana and put at least half of the 
slices, or all, depending on banana 
size or preferred amount, into 
a buttered saucepan, browning 
both sides over medium heat. 
Meanwhile, cook the oatmeal, and 
instead of using water, add 2/3 
cup of milk to make a creamier 
concoction. Place banana slices 
into the bowl of oatmeal and top 
with a sprinkle of cinnamon, 
drizzle of honey, sliced almonds 
and, if you really need something 
filling, one to two tablespoons 
of greek yogurt. Searing bananas 
adds a natural sweetness while 
cinnamon adds warmth, and 
almonds give the oatmeal a hint of 
protein and crunch. 
So maybe this recipe will take 
a bit longer in the morning to 
make, but the personal touch and 
natural ingredients will make 
your stomach, taste buds and 
heart happy. Basic Oatmeal RecipeThere were many nights during 
my freshman year when I lay 
in my twin-sized bed, down in 
Revelle College’s Challenger Hall. My 
laptop would be sitting on my desk, 
eagerly waiting for fingers to hit its keys 
and words to flow. My lamp would be 
quietly buzzing in the corner, hoping it 
could shed some light on the readings 
I was supposed to do. Books were 
sprawled across my desk for Making of 
the Modern W orld or political science, 
either untouched or with a lone sticky 
note in them. But I would be laying 
on my bed, eyes glued to the white 
void that was my dormitory ceiling. I 
was lying there because I didn’t know 
what to do with myself, or with school, 
or with life. I was lying there because 
I couldn’t find meaning; a reason to 
finish anything I started.
This wasn’t a daily or weekly 
ordeal, but it was common enough 
that I knew I wanted to stop feeling 
that feeling. That feeling of unending 
questioning with no answers and 
no concrete emotions except apathy. 
What I found comfort in eventually 
is that what I was experiencing was 
commonplace among my peers, or 
at least I believed it to be. Many of 
us enter college without knowing 
exactly what we want to do, but we 
tell ourselves that we must follow this 
paved road to reach a predetermined 
end goal. Follow the signposts, 
turn here, don’t make a U-turn. 
As we muddle through classes and 
coursework, we are progressing closer 
and closer to this goal, but what if 
that really isn’t our goal? A goal we 
genuinely want for ourselves?
Not knowing any better, I buried 
myself in more work. But I did so 
intentionally. I tried to do things that 
sounded interesting to me personally 
but also that pertained to what my 
major had laid out. I had taken 
divergent paths, hoping I could find 
something I would end up loving. This 
is a frightening exploration. At times, 
I felt like I was wasting time, like not 
knowing when to leave something 
or having that feeling of investing so 
much time into something when I 
could’ve done something else. Similarly, 
sometimes I felt that I could not fully 
invest myself into something because 
I feared I would be leaving it soon. 
Only dipping my toes, into ponds of 
experience, never taking the plunge.
I must acknowledge, though, that 
my timid forays into various interests 
was backed by economic privilege. 
This is something I cannot forgo, as 
the safety net of what my parents had 
worked for and invested in me allowed 
me to more fully experience myself 
and the vastness of college. And, quite 
frankly, it was for this very reason I was 
able to find what I love and continue 
down that path that I had paved with 
the multitudes of experiences, mentors 
and friends along the way. I am 
thankful for these past four years for 
providing me with passion.
But how does this translate to 
everyone else? Is this experience 
communicable to others? Y es, with 
some caveats. Here is what I believe: 
Resources are not equally distributed 
or easily acquired by all, inhibiting 
individuals from achieving their end 
goals. But, should we find what stokes 
the flames of fervent interest and 
ambition within ourselves, there 
is the potential capacity within 
community to billow up those 
flames. Seek out those individuals, 
those groups and those communities 
to help fuel your passion, because 
I believe it is those factors that 
we may all be more equally able 
to share. Readers, may the rest 
of college, and life, be built upon 
genuine human connections to 
create a better version of our today.FRESHMAN FAUX-PAS
VINCENT PHAM
VNP003@UCSD.EDU
People, 
Places & 
PassionSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD women’s soccer team had a solid season, racking up 15 wins with six losses and 
one tie. Its remarkable season came to an end during the first round of the NCAA tournament 
after losing to Seattle Pacific 2–1 in Bellingham, Washington. 
The Tritons won their ninth California Collegiate Athletic Association title under longtime 
head coach Brian McManus. The Tritons knocked top-ranked Sonoma State out of the CCAA 
tournament after beating them 3–0 in the semifinal game. They then went on to defeat 
Stanislaus State, 3–2, earning the program another CCAA banner. Freshman forward Mary 
Reilly, sophomore forward Katie O’Laughlin, sophomore midfielder Jordyn McNutt, redshirt junior defender Meghan Berry, redshirt junior midfielder Kiera Bocchino and senior goalkeeper 
Kelcie Brodsky were selected to the CCAA All-Tournament teams as a result. As Reilly was also 
pinned as CCAA freshman of the year, Reilly, O’Laughlin, McNutt and Berry made the All-
CCAA first team following their regular season. Meanwhile, Bocchino gathered second team 
honors, and Brodsky and sophomore midfielder Brie Diaz were honorable mentions. 
The UCSD soccer team also had four players get selected to the 2015 Division-II Conference 
Commission Association All-West Region teams.
McNutt was selected to the first team while Berry, Reilly and O’Laughlin were selected to the 
second team. McNutt was also selected as an honorable mention to the Division-II CCAA All-
American team while Bocchino was selected as an NSCAA scholar All-West Region honoree. 
With a very young 2015 team, the 2016 Tritons look to make a deep run in the Division-II 
NCAA Tournament in this upcoming season. Ws. By the halfway point, the Tritons 
were 11–2 overall and already closing 
in on their previous year’s win total. 
The Tritons only lost one more 
game in January, falling to Cal State 
Monterey Bay by 11 points, but that 
proved to be a fluke as the team 
simply started a new winning streak 
immediately afterward. On this 
streak, the Tritons earned one of their 
most important victories of the season 
in a slugfest with conference rival No. 
13 Cal Poly Pomona. In a game where 
points were hard to come by, junior 
guard Adam Klie fought his way to 12 
points and 10 rebounds, pushing the 
team toward a 41–35 victory and a 
series sweep against the Broncos.But in the final stretch of the 
regular season, something would 
prove to be rotten with the team’s 
performance. Despite peaking at 
an incredible No. 6 ranking in the 
NCAA, the Tritons simply couldn’t 
keep it together in their final games 
of the season. Beginning with a tough 
loss to No. 9 Chico State, UCSD 
dropped three out of its final five 
games of the season, causing its rank 
to plummet to 23 by the start of the 
CCAA tournament. 
Luckily for the Tritons, the team 
knows how to pull it together when it 
matters most. In an absolute thriller 
of a quarterfinal against Sonoma 
State, senior forward Drew Dyer 
summoned his inner Stephen Curry 
and with 1.9 seconds left on the 
inbound play drilled an incredible buzzer-beating three-pointer to 
send the game into overtime. 
Although trailing for much of the 
overtime period, the Tritons held 
the Seawolves scoreless in the final 
minutes of the game to pull ahead 
for a 71–66 victory. 
After downing Cal Poly Pomona 
for the third time this season to 
reach the CCAA Tournament finals, 
the Tritons looked as if they had 
returned to their midseason form. 
Unfortunately, the Tritons hit a rut. 
Facing off against Humboldt State in 
the tournament finals, UCSD laid an 
egg, as it lost 80–68 against a team it 
split the regular season series with. 
However, the Tritons were lucky 
enough to earn a berth to the NCAA 
Tournament, regardless of the 
outcome of the CCAA Tournament. The rematches continued as they 
defeated Chico State and California 
Baptist in the first two rounds of the 
NCAA West Regional. Looking to 
advance to the Elite Eight, the Tritons 
needed redemption against another 
familiar opponent — No. 3 Western 
Oregon. Although the game remained 
close to the very end, the Tritons’ 
inability to get consistent offensive 
production from their bench proved 
to be their downfall. Despite Dyer 
and Klie’s combined 36 points, the 
Tritons closed out their season on a 
60–55 loss.
“Coming to this tournament and 
winning games was a huge step for 
our program, ” UCSD head coach Eric 
Olen said in the team’s final postgame 
press conference.
Even with the heartbreaking ending, UCSD still had a remarkable 
season. The season marked the 
Tritons’ first win in the Division II 
playoffs, while the team’s total of 
24 victories was a UCSD record. 
Dyer and Klie had phenomenal 
years, both being named to the All-
CCAA First Team. Dyer, Klie and 
freshman center Chris Hansen all 
averaged double figures in points, 
with 15.4, 13.2 and 10.3 respectively. 
Klie led the team in rebounds with 
5.8 a game, and Dyer averaged an 
incredible .451 from downtown. 
Dyer and center Zach McMillan 
are the only seniors departing this 
year, leaving next year’s team with a 
strong core. 
Great Season For Women’s Soccer Ends in the NCAA Tournament
Tritons earned fifteen wins and their ninth CCAA title before losing 2 –1 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament against Seattle Pacific.W.  SOCCERTritons’ Basketball Will Look T o Improve On Historic Season in 2017 With Only Two Seniors Leaving 
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
Alex WU    
BY   Sa m a n t h a  G l a n t z
Samantha glantz    
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ UCSD  GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
An accelerated MBA program with embedded 
real world experience could open doors you 
didn’t know were there. 
Keep your options open by taking the GMAT.
Spaces are limited.  Sign up today to guarantee 
yourself a spot in this free 4-week, comprehensive GMAT  
test prep course that can often cost hundreds of dollars.LOOKING FOR YOUR NEXT  
STEP AFTER GRADUATION?pointloma.edu/freeGMATFREE                   
   TEST PREP
Coming off of a solid 16–11 
campaign the previous year, 
UCSD was looking to build 
on its success and perhaps make 
some noise in a CCAA Tournament 
run. But after starting their season 
3–0 with strong wins against No. 
10 Colorado School of Mines and 
No. 4 California Baptist, the Tritons 
appeared ready to do more than just 
“make some noise. ”
Following those statement 
victories, UCSD headed to Belmont 
for the Notre Dame de Namur 
Thanksgiving Classic, where it 
continued to prove it was a force to 
be reckoned with. In matches against 
Holy Names and Notre Dame de 
Namur, the Tritons won by 24 and 
40 points respectively, flexing their 
offensive and defensive muscles. 
Afterward, the Tritons were ranked 
22nd overall — their first NCAA 
ranking since 2001.
Their win-streak would eventually 
come to an end, as they dropped 
a 67–63 game to No. 3 Western 
Oregon, but their show of dominance 
continued through the first half of 
the season as they kept piling on the UCSD Basketball 
Has Historic 
2015/2016 SeasonDespite having their magical 
season cut short in the 
NCAA West Regionals, 
the Tritons’ 24–8 overall 
record gave UCSD men’s 
basketball one of its best 
seasons in years.
Written by  Alex Wu // Sports 
Editorial Assistant 
Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  