VOLUME 49, ISSUE 55   MONDA Y , MA Y 16, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CONTRACT 
CHEATING
FRUSTRATED BY THEIR 
WRITING ASSIGNMENTS, 
MANY STUDENTS TURN 
TO CONTRACT CHEATING 
COMPANIES TO WRITE THEIR 
ESSAYS. READ ABOUT THIS 
TROUBLING PHENOMENON 
AND THE STEPS UCSD FACULTY 
IS TAKING TO COMBAT IT.
EQUIT ABLE   EDUCA TION
IS  UCSD  READ Y  FOR  D1?HOW  INEQUITIES  ARE PERPETUA TED
A  LOOK  A T  UCSD  SPORTS  B Y  DA T AOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  6
MONDAY   
H 67 L 60TUESDAY
H 67 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 71 L 62THURSDAY 
H 73 L 60
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  ...2
FILTERING FACEBOOK  .....4
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
BASEBALL  .................... 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA  
CARLSON / GUARDIAN
After a 10-day hunger strike, 
four San Francisco State University 
students reached an agreement with 
SFSU President Leslie Wong to 
provide additional funding for the 
university’s College of Ethnic Studies 
on May 11. As part of the settlement, 
the administration will allocate an 
additional $482,806 to the ethnic 
studies program. 
The students — Hassani Bell, Julia 
Retzlaff, Sachiel Rose and Ahkeel 
Mestayer — initiated the hunger 
strike in response to proposed budget 
cuts to the College of Ethnic Studies 
and demanded that the university 
invest $8 million in the college. 
The hunger strikers call themselves 
“the Third World Liberation Front 
2016, ” which takes its name from the 1968-69 protests against the 
neglect of indigenous peoples and 
people of color within the university’s 
curriculum and programs. These 
protests laid the groundwork for 
the establishment of the College of 
Ethnic Studies.
In addition to further investment 
in the College, the students and 
protesters voiced support for the 
ethnic studies faculty’s demand 
that the university hire two full-
time faculty members for the 
department of Africana studies. 
Although the department approved 
the two candidates last fall, the 
administration decided last week that 
the department did not have enough 
funds to hire them. 
The administration will use 
nearly half of the promised funds — 
$213,120 — to satisfy this demand 
and to secure the two new tenure-track positions. 
Both sides also agreed to a media 
blackout, during which neither 
the administration nor faculty and 
students will make public statements 
regarding the protests and subsequent 
resolution for the rest of the current 
academic year. 
Andrew Jolivette, Chair of the 
American Indian Studies Department 
at the College of Ethnic Studies, told 
NBC that the students’ actions have 
helped to strengthen the College and 
ensure that it continues to expand.
“Their sacrifice was a selfless 
act that make us all proud of them, ” 
Jolivette said. “This is a huge step 
in advancing the healthy growth 
of the College of Ethnic Studies, 
and I look forward to the next 
phases of planning to bring the Students 
Send List of  
Demands to 
UniversityUCSD
Student groups MEChA and 
MiRA called for changes to 
the DEI requirement and for 
community-specific housing.
BY   B E C CA  C H O N G
In response to the recent 
chalking incidents at UCSD, the 
student groups Movimiento 
Estudiantil Chicanx de Aztlan 
and Migrants Rights Awareness 
created a list of 33 demands in 
collaboration with several other 
student organizations and campus 
entities. The demands are aimed at 
addressing the administration’s lack 
of response to the incidents as well 
as more widespread issues of racism 
and xenophobia in the San Diego 
and UC communities.
The lists encompasses a variety 
of issues, including the well-being 
of the student population, changes 
to the diversity, equity and inclusion 
graduation requirement, the creation 
of more community-specific housing, 
increased representation of minorities 
among faculty and staff and an increase 
in accountability throughout the hiring 
process of upper-level administration, 
among others.
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Sonia Garcia Avelar, the chair of 
MiRA and one of the signers of 
the demand list, emphasized that 
while the list addresses the recent 
chalking incidents, it is meant to be 
proactive rather than reactionary; 
she explained how the demands are 
grounded in realistic expectations 
that are meant to be a starting point 
for improving UCSD. 
“We felt like we signed off on 
things that are very feasible and 
tangible, things that have already 
been ‘worked on’ by administration, 
or things that have been brought up 
consistently, ” Avelar told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Ideally all 33 demands 
would be met, but we also have to 
acknowledge that [the creation of 
this list is] taking steps forward to 
make this a more diverse, equitable 
and inclusive university, [while] 
also acknowledging the fact that 
the foundation of the university was 
never meant for underrepresented 
communities or people of color. ”
Rosaura Sanchez, a professor 
of Latin American and Chicano 
literature, offered her perspective 
on the proposed changes to the 
university’s Diversity, Education, 
and Inclusion requirement: first 
changing the course to a mandatory 
letter-grade, adding a second course, 
making them more accessible 
to non-American students and UCSD administration ordered the removal of a display 
from the Silent Tree area in front of Geisel Library last 
Wednesday, citing concerns regarding pedestrian safety. 
A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Krystl Fabella, whose 
office was responsible for putting up the display, aimed to 
use the display to engage students and promote “critical, 
necessary dialogue about race, oppression, and inequality. ”
UCSD Communications Manager Christine Clark 
explained to the UCSD Guardian that was not safe for 
enough to be placed in such a populated area.
“The Silent Tree location where the display was installed 
is not a reservable space for free-standing displays, stages 
and events, ” Clark said in an email. “More importantly, this 
display, which consisted of 7 large boards, was not affixed 
to a stable supporting structure and were susceptible to 
being blown over.  Measuring over 6 feet tall, the boards 
posed a safety hazard in an area used heavily by pedestrians, 
skateboarders and cyclists. Had the display been reserved 
through the proper channels, then measures could have 
been taken in advance to ensure they were safely installed. ”After being alerted that the display threatened student 
safety, Fabella and her office immediately took the display 
down. However, though she admitted she did not complete 
the full procedure required to reserve the space, she disclosed 
to the Guardian that a university official inappropriately 
shouted at her in public for the incident.
“There was nuanced protocol that I was made aware of 
that I missed, to which I took responsibility for immediately, 
but I was proceeded to be verbally attacked, yelled at, and 
patronized by an admin figure in public, accused of being 
disruptive and defiant, ” Fabella said. “I walked him through 
the good-faith effort of procedure I did, describing where 
I might have missed authority to pass through to use the 
free speech zone (which is in itself so ambiguously defined) 
… [but] it’s frustrating, the undermining that admin takes 
to students in our good faith efforts of activism, the bad 
intentions assumed in what should be a learning grounds 
and a learning institution where marginalized community 
issues continue to be stifled. ”
Furthermore, Fabella revealed that the university official B y  jacky to      news editorCAMPUS
SFSU Agrees to Increase Ethnic Studies Funding
The settlement ended a 10-day student hunger strike protesting proposed cuts to the department.See DISPLAY , page 3
CSU SYSTEM
BY  M A R I A  S E B AS
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
See DEMANDS , page 3 See SFSU , page 3Photo courtesy of Seda Byurat
University Officials Shut Down 
Display on Library Walk
WHAT I’VE 
GAINED 
FROM THIS 
FORAY IS 
THAT WE, 
PARTICULARLY HETEROSEXUAL 
CISGENDERED MALES, SHOULD 
NOT TAKE OUR PATRIARCHAL 
SOCIETY AT FACE-VALUE. ”
— VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 4
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “Are you a masochist?” J.P.L. trying to refer to 
mysogyny.  Good try, J.P .L.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Vanessa Wong
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasDisease of the Week: Dengue Virus
By Karly Nisson // Staff Writer // knisson@ucsd.edu
According to the World Health 
Organization, 3.6 billion people 
are at risk of contracting Dengue 
infection, one of the most prevalent 
mosquito-borne viral diseases in 
the world. Of these individuals, 390 
million will develop the disease and 
24,000 will die from it each year, a 
likely consequence of the difficulty 
in controlling mosquito populations 
and the increased global movement 
of people and goods. With half the 
world’s population vulnerable to 
the disease, researchers at UCSD’s 
Shresta Lab are currently studying 
the immunology of Dengue virus 
(DEN) to further the development 
of new antiviral therapies and 
vaccines.  
While descriptions of DEN 
outbreaks date as far back as 
1779, the disease only became a 
worldwide problem in the 1950s 
after severe cases manifested 
themselves in Thailand and the 
Philippines. Researchers have 
understood its cause and means of 
transmission since the early 20th 
century, but their efforts toward 
vaccine development have been met 
with a unique challenge: DEN is not 
caused by a single virus, but by four, 
and immunity to one virus does not 
provide immunity to the others. 
In fact, infection by one of these serotypes — variations of dengue — 
significantly increases the likelihood 
of an individual developing a much 
more severe form of DEN if he or 
she later contracts any of the other 
three serotypes. The four viruses 
share only 62 to 67 percent of their 
amino acid sequences, and are more 
similar to other viruses, like West 
Nile, than they are to each other. 
These disparities complicate the 
development of a common DEN 
vaccine; there’s no single target. 
Symptoms of DEN fall into a 
spectrum ranging from mild to 
potentially fatal. The most mild 
manifestation of the virus is Dengue 
Fever, a symptom-free disease for 
most of the individuals who contract 
it. The one in four who do show 
symptoms, however, will exhibit 
flu-like conditions: fever, muscle 
and joint pains, rash and headache. 
Hemorrhaging and leakage of fluid 
from blood vessels accompany the 
more severe Dengue Hemorrhagic 
Fever; shock resulting from this 
fluid leakage along with intestinal 
hemorrhaging lead to the potentially 
fatal Dengue Shock Syndrome. 
Whether or not individuals develop 
severe infections depends on their 
race, genetic factors, age, sex and 
nutritional status.
The greatest risk factor for developing DHF or DSS, however, 
is previous infection by one of the 
other three serotypes. This discovery 
prompts the obvious question: Why 
are individuals who have had one 
form of the virus more prone to 
severe infection by another? It seems 
counterintuitive that someone who 
has built immunity to one type 
of the virus wouldn’t possess the 
antibodies capable of defeating an 
infection by a similar one.
The answer to this conundrum 
lies in the virus’ interaction with 
host antibodies. If the host possesses 
low levels of anti-DEN antibodies 
and contracts the virus, the host 
is far more likely to develop a 
severe infection. Individuals who’ve 
had another form of dengue may 
be producing low levels of this 
antibody because they’ve either 
been infected with another serotype 
or have inherited antibodies from 
their mother. The virus is capable 
of using the antibodies to gain 
increased access into cells, where 
they can proliferate and elicit an 
immune response. This only works, 
however, when the host has sub-
neutralizing levels of antibodies; 
that is, not enough to defeat the 
virus, but just enough to help it 
spread and reproduce. This concept, 
entitled Antibody Dependent Enhancement, was proposed nearly 
50 years ago and only recently 
confirmed in 2010. ADE transforms 
a mild infection into a severe 
disease and presents a problem for 
traditional vaccine design, which 
relies on an individual’s production 
and retention of immune cells in 
response to a dead or weakened 
virus. These immune cells, or 
memory cells, remember how to 
defeat the virus; when the person 
comes in contact with the real 
thing, their memory cells can 
quickly produce the necessary 
antibodies. In the case of dengue, 
the initial antibodies produced by 
these memory cells assist the virus, 
and what was once a symptom-free 
infection becomes potentially fatal. 
The Shresta lab is studying 
the mechanisms of the immune 
system in response to DEN, an 
understanding necessary for 
the development of dengue-
specific treatments and vaccines. 
Additionally, the lab is focused on 
identifying the specific components 
of the virus that determine the 
severity of the infection. While 
the first dengue vaccine was just 
approved in Mexico in December 
2015, there is still a long road ahead 
for researchers hoping to curb the 
spread of the re-emerging infection.  
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee More
DAKHABRAKHA
DakhaBrakha possesses an incredible stage presence that
transcends its eclectic repertoire and instrumentation. Reflecting
fundamental elements of sound and soul, this Ukrainian “ethno
chaos” band creates a world of unexpected new music.  
WEDNES DAY , MAY 11, AT 8 P M
PRICE CENTE R EAST BALL ROOM
TICKETS: $30; $12 U CSD ST UDENTS“ . . . it’s the live shows that take DakhaBrakha  
beyond mere curiosity to utter brilliance. ”—NPR
artpower .ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXSNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONa specific focus on issues of the 
black community. She praised 
the proposal’s inclusion of many 
communities but recognized the 
reality of the university as a public 
institution with many interests. 
“The changes proposed [to the 
DEI] are striking in their inclusion 
of a broad segment of the UCSD 
student body … [if] their demands 
[were] implemented, they would 
undoubtedly benefit the student 
body as a whole, ” Sanchez wrote to 
the Guardian. “ A shift in attitudes 
and behavior, however, can come 
only with the elimination of 
ignorance, bigotry and racism. 
Unfortunately, this campus is more 
concerned with bringing in wealthy 
foreign students than in recruiting 
more underrepresented California 
students … the administration’s 
focus on money and on pushing 
students through in four years is 
having an educationally negative 
impact, keeping students, in many 
cases, from taking courses outside 
their STEM majors. ”
The list includes a demand for 
the guaranteed existence of ethnic 
and cultural education programs 
including the Chicano/a~Latino/a 
Arts and Humanities Program, 
African American studies minor 
and the ethnic studies program, 
regardless of enrollment. 
Erin Suzuki, a professor of 
Asian American and Pacific Island 
literatures who holds an advisory 
role in selecting coursework for 
the Asian American studies minor, 
reflected on the importance of 
serving the needs of a community 
that comprises 54 percent of UCSD’s campus and a large portion of 
campuses across California.
“[Asian American studies 
programs are important by] the 
nature of the institution [of UCSD] 
itself, an institution that serves the 
public of California, an institution 
that has a very predominant 
population of Asian American 
students on campus, ” Suzuki said. 
“I think we have a responsibility 
to reflect the needs and academic 
interests of the student body. All of 
our peer universities [e.g., UCLA, 
UC Berkeley] have very flourishing 
Asian American studies programs as 
well, so it would not be out of place 
for [UCSD’s] to grow. ” 
ERC senior Raahima Shoaib, 
the programming director for the 
Muslim Student Association, shared 
her own experiences of how UCSD 
does not adequately accommodate 
Muslim dietary restrictions and 
religious customs.
“All these demands are 
important for the Muslim student 
body … because they help facilitate 
our belief and make our experience 
at UCSD a better one,” Shoaib told 
the Guardian. “In my experience, 
eating and praying on campus 
is made a lot more difficult ... 
[because] many Muslims observe 
strict dietary laws (not unlike 
Kosher guidelines) and cannot eat 
any sort of meat that isn’t prepared 
properly. Because of this, being on 
campus for any extended amount of 
time becomes difficult.” 
The list of demands closes 
with a statement asking for online 
signatures and widespread sharing 
within communities.University Officials Described the Display as “Offensive” and “Abrasive”
▶ DEMANDS,  from page 1
becca chong   rcchong@ucsd.eduUCSD Ethnic Studies Department Wrote Letter in Support of ProtestorsStudents Can Sign List of Demands Online
who ordered the removal of the 
display told her that the images on 
her office’s display were “abrasive” and 
“offensive, ” which she found ironic 
considering the administration’s 
response to other demonstrations that 
have happened on Library Walk and 
around campus recently. 
Incoming A.S. Off-campus Senator 
Azze Ngo, who was present during 
the incident, told the Guardian that 
students were disappointed they were 
prevented from engaging with the 
exhibit. She also criticized university 
administration for their reaction to 
the display erected by the Center 
for Bio-Ethical Reform erected in 
January, which juxtaposed images of 
genocide victims and the lynching 
of African-Americans with those of 
dismembered fetuses.
“Students were very upset that they weren’t able to participate in dialogue 
surrounding the murals, but this 
didn’t seem to be of any concern for 
administration, ” Ngo said. “I can’t help 
but notice the discrepancy between 
how quickly administration removed 
murals in our free speech zone that 
critique American politics and how 
hands-off they were with graphic 
images of aborted fetuses on Library 
W alk that disturbed and upset many 
students. Policies and procedures 
aside, allowing one event to happen 
over the other further stifles activism 
on our campus when our campus 
climate needs it most. ”
Clark, however, clarified that the 
organization responsible for the anti-
abortion display put up in January 
went through the proper channels and 
procedure to reserve their space on 
Library W alk and that the university 
does not look at the content of a display 
when deciding whether or not to allow it to be placed on-campus.
“The sponsor of the display in 
January did make a reservation, ” Clark 
told the Guardian. “Reservations are 
made on a content-neutral basis. That 
means the content of a display is not a 
factor in deciding whether a sponsor of 
a display gets a reservable space. ”
The day after the display was 
erected and removed, Christian 
evangelists appeared on Library 
W alk to preach their faith. One of 
the preachers, Brother Aden, who 
was holding a nearly 10-feet tall sign 
that said “MUHAMMAD IS A LIAR, 
FALSE PROPHET , CHILD RAPING 
PERVERT!” and “HOMO SEX IS A 
SIN, ” told the Guardian that he did 
not contact any university officials 
before coming to UCSD and faced no 
opposition from administration.▶ DISPLAY ,  from page 1
jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu
students demands into fruition in 
the coming years. ”
UCSD ethnic studies department 
Chair Curtis Marez told the 
UCSD Guardian that though his 
department has not faced funding 
cuts, the deterioration of the SFSU 
College of Ethnic Studies would 
greatly harm the effort to educate 
students about inequality. 
“Ethnic studies at UCSD has not 
faced the same threatened cuts as 
San Francisco State, but the program 
there is so foundational to the field 
that its demise would be a troubling 
precedent, speaking to the devaluing 
of public education about inequality, ” 
Marez said. “[This] is troubling because we already face similar kinds 
of devaluation at UCSD, not only 
due to the recent racist Triton Day 
graffiti on campus that partially target 
ethnic studies, but also because of 
larger forms of structural inequality 
on campus. ”
Marez continued by pointing out 
that the ethnic studies department 
is disproportionately responsible for 
diversity education on campus. 
“Every year, a thousand 
[undergraduate students] meet 
their DEI requirements with an 
ethnic studies course, ” Marez said. 
“Unfortunately, UCSD does not 
always support such contributions, 
and so, ironically, a department 
devoted to studying and overcoming 
inequality bears an unequal burden for the campus. ”
Graduate students and faculty 
from UCSD’s ethnic studies 
department sent a letter to President 
Wong and Provost Sue Rosser on 
May 9 to voice their support for the 
SFSU ethnic studies faculty and staff. 
In the letter, they acknowledged that 
the field of ethnic studies promotes 
understanding of diversity and 
inequality and that its absence could 
greatly hinder college campuses. 
“Graffiti-writing racists and other 
reactionary enemies of democracy 
and informed critical thought are only 
emboldened when administrations 
defund and devalue Ethnic Studies, ” 
the letter noted.▶ SFSU  from page 1
maria sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN   PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See FUNDING , page 5As educational inequality affects more and more schools nationwide — 
some recent cases occurring in the state of Kansas and the city of Chicago 
— policy makers have begun to prioritize equity in public schools. But while 
students and educational staff await the changes to be made based on state and 
national decisions, poorer districts continue to struggle amid the consequences 
and disadvantages produced by unjust funding appropriations. Ultimately, 
funding policies for schools need to be corrected nationally in order to limit the 
disadvantages present between schools in poorer districts and those in more 
affluent districts.
According to The New Y ork Times, Kansas made a hasty decision in 2015 
to shift its school budget policies from a per-pupil formula to a block grant 
system. In doing so, the state’s schools began to receive uneven shares of the 
education budget, systematically providing wealthier schools with larger 
funds and leaving poorer schools scrambling in the dust to make up for the 
lost funding. After recognizing this injustice, in February 2016 the Supreme 
Court ordered Kansas to once again to change its budget system in order to 
more fairly balance funding and assure that poorer school districts will not be 
neglected in receiving adequate support from the state. 
The misproportioned funding allocations for Kansas’s schools, moreover, 
have left poorer districts with a far smaller percentage of the state’s education budget. According to The Kansas City Star, the block grant system left poorer 
school districts short by 54 million dollars. Likewise, the block grant system 
leads to a reduction of $127.4 million in school district funds, according to 
Educate Lawrence, so the quality of education begins to face difficulties in all 
areas unless the local districts can better fund the schools. This remains highly 
unlikely for schools in poorer areas.
California currently allocates its education budget based on a Local 
Control Funding Formula, which essentially provides uniform base grants to 
school districts and enacts revenue limits while giving districts freedom to 
allocate the funds based on where they deem fit, according to the California 
Department of Education. Although the state designed this budget system 
in order to promote equity among districts in terms of funding, schools still 
face inequality issues. According to the Southern California Public Radio, 
foundations have been formed throughout the state to raise more funds for 
schools in their respective districts. Y et the foundations receive far more 
support in wealthier areas, thus poorer districts continue to receive less money 
and ultimately a lower quality of education.
Other states’ schools and education funds have similar issues of unjust 
budget allocations. For instance, since July of 2015, Chicago State University 
has received no funding from the state although it generally relies on Illinois 
QUICK TAKESALLEGATIONS OF A FORMER FACEBOOK NEWS CURATOR THAT THE SITE’S TRENDING NEWS SECTION SKEWS COVERAGE HAVE 
ELICITED DEBATES REGARDING BIAS. AS A SOCIAL MEDIA SITE, IS FACEBOOK RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING UNBIASED CONTENT?
Given That News Sources Are Inherently Biased, Bias in the 
Curation of Facebook’s Trending News is Acceptable and Just
With allegations that Facebook has been suppressing conservative news 
and promoting liberal news, some users have begun calling for reform. 
However, Facebook has no legal obligation to do so. News sites implicitly 
engage in a form of censoring and promoting certain topics and issues when 
their writers or editors decide which issues are worth investigating, writing 
about and publishing. The sheer amount of news that occurs around the 
world forces media organizations to filter and prioritize certain issues above 
others. While Facebook’s filtering may be explicit, Facebook is making the 
exact decisions those news media organizations have been doing since the 
advent of publication — deciding which news events to highlight in the 
Trending module. 
In a media landscape that constantly perpetuates racial stereotypes, it’s 
good to hear that Facebook is promoting issues such as the Black Lives Matter 
movement. For example, Color of Change reports that local news stations in 
New Y ork “exaggerate the proportion of Black people involved in crime—on 
average, by 24 percentage points. ” Media has historically catered to a white 
audience and brushed aside issues pertaining to minorities. While opponents 
of Facebook’s filtering of the trending topics may argue that media is meant 
to remain impartial and unbiased, it is untrue to say that media has ever been 
impartial or unbiased. Every article, title and word in a publication service 
caters to a certain audience and raises concerns for a certain group — with the 
selection of which group’s voice to publish comes the exclusion of other voices. 
Facebook’s curation and collection of news is no more than the same bias that 
other news media have been exhibiting through topic selection, etc.
Media coverage has been and always will be biased. For example, the 
extensive media coverage of Donald Trump has no doubt propelled him to 
the forefront of the GOP primary, and this coverage has hindered national 
conversations about real issues.
If the only source of news for someone is the Trending tab that occupies 
a tiny corner of the screen, there are much larger problems than the filtering 
of a few news topics. Furthermore, the fact that individuals can “like” the 
news sites of various publications and read through their choices of news 
through their newsfeeds seems to counteract any negative criticism of the 
Trending tab.
             — ALEXANDER CHEN
Staff WriterAs A Large Distributor of News in the Age of Social Media, 
Facebook is Obligated to Provide Unbiased and Fair News
Earlier last week, the design and tech blog Gizmodo released allegations 
from a former Facebook employee that the company’s Trending News 
section routinely suppresses conservative news. According to the anonymous 
informant, the section is not generated by an automatic algorithm, but manually 
by so-called “news curators” who pick and choose stories from the actual 
numbers-based trending list. While the author of the Gizmodo article pointed 
out that this “curation” of news functions exactly like a traditional newsroom in 
that stories are subject to the institution’s biases, Facebook has the technology 
to move beyond these old-fashioned restrictions. In fact, if Facebook plans on 
acquiring legitimacy as a news source, it has an obligation to present unbiased 
content to its consumers.
It is becoming an undeniable fact that Facebook is where a growing 
number of people get their news, in a way that traditional news outlets could 
never match. According to a Pew Research Center survey on journalism.com, 
61 percent of millennials get their political news from Facebook. Further, 
Wired Magazine writes that 600 million people see a news story on Facebook 
every day.
While major newspapers earn their legitimacy through transparency 
and adherence to broader guidelines of journalistic ethics, Facebook’s recent 
rise as a new kind of distributor means it hasn’t been shaped by these norms 
yet. According to NPR’s code of ethics, any conflict of personal interest, real 
or perceived, affects the institution’s credibility as a servant of the public. 
Last Tuesday, in response to a Senate GOP inquiry into these allegations of 
conservative news suppression, Facebook stated that it is “deeply committed 
to being a platform for people and perspectives of all viewpoints. ” While this 
seems to be in line with the general ethics of journalism, the fact remains that 
Facebook is primarily a social media website, not a news institution, and is 
therefore more concerned with user experience than journalistic integrity. 
One solution to this controversy would be for Facebook to replace news 
curators with a basic algorithm like Twitter’s, yet as the internet giant acquires 
an even greater monopoly over distribution, its neutrality will be even harder to 
maintain. With one corporation being able to dictate content, even the integrity 
of traditional news outlets will be compromised. We need to start taking a more 
critical look at Facebook’s ever-increasing power over journalism.
                                 — SOPHIE OSBORN
                            Senior Staff Writer
Kansas state government’s recent decision 
to fund public schools with block grants 
rather than per-pupil funding is one of  many 
moves contributing to the persistent issue of  
education inequity .  
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSON
BY EMILY  COLLINS // 
STAFF WRITERVincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.edubo y,  interrupted
I set out writing this column 
after some banter in the UCSD 
Guardian’s office. I was talking about 
how I do these traditionally feminine 
activities, like cooking and cleaning, 
and genuinely like it. I was originally 
planning to write about “female” 
activities I partake in, normalizing 
the idea of self-identified males doing 
said activities. I would be accepting 
— not questioning — these societally 
constructed notions. 
Reflection led to a new angle. Rather 
than writing about my experiences 
with “female” activities, I wanted to 
explore what made them “female. ” I 
wanted to explore further what led to 
anything being determined feminine 
or masculine and how those binaries 
were created, cultivated and continued. 
In the end, I wanted to challenge the 
commonplace perceptions on gender. 
What I’ve gained from this foray is 
that we, particularly heterosexual 
cisgendered males, should not take our 
patriarchal society at face-value. Just 
because it is the status-quo does not 
mean it should be. And knowing that 
should precipitate more than passive 
discontent — it should encourage the 
active commitment to recognize gender 
inequalities and challenge systems that 
unfairly advantage some over others. 
A way men might go against 
patriarchal structures is saying they 
are feminists. It’s a start, but I believe 
the impact is beyond identifying as a 
buzzword. Rather, it’s understanding 
what type of feminist you are and what 
you do about it. The website everyday 
feminism classifies feminism under two 
categories: feminism as a movement for 
and about women, and feminism as a 
movement for gender justice. The latter, 
which I identify with, addresses how 
the patriarchy not only adversely affects 
women but how it similarly affects men. 
Although women are more systemically 
oppressed by the patriarchy, it is equally 
important to acknowledge that as 
long as women are oppressed, men 
are also shackled to specific gender 
constructs. Furthermore, identifying 
as a feminist should be followed with 
the understanding of intersectionality. 
Other factors, like ethnicity and 
socioeconomic status, are integral 
aspects of identity which makes gender 
more nuanced and unequal for some.
This more holistic understanding 
of gender and its complexities was 
the result of my own research, 
conversations with women who have 
varying intersectionalities in gender, 
ethnicity and fields of study (thank 
you, friends and faculty of UCSD) and 
curiosity. At the beginning of this, I 
was naive and unquestioning. I did 
not see myself as having any special 
privilege or advantage over others and 
none in particular over women. I did 
not think that identifying as female, 
or just being seen as one, carried 
with it so many experiences I would 
never encounter or truly understand. 
I did not think that in the lottery of 
genders, I actually came out on the 
luckier side (while acknowledging that 
being a heterosexual cisgendered male, 
Vietnamese in ethnicity and middle 
class in income plays a large role into 
my privilege). Because of all these stark 
realizations, I am actively choosing to 
be a feminist, to think critically about 
how my privilege has gotten me to 
where I am today and to purposefully 
have conversations that will gradually 
dismantle the established patriarchy 
and diminish gender inequality. And 
so should other men who choose to 
remain silent on their privilege and 
actively oppress others, even if by doing 
nothing at all.Why I’m 
Choosing To 
Be A FeministA  CALL  FOR 
EQUIT ABLE  
EDUCA TIONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
for 30 percent of its budget, according 
to The New Y ork Times. As a school 
serving predominantly African-
American students, the university’s 
student body consists mainly of 
minorities. The New Y ork Times 
also mentions how budget cuts in 
Illinois have left “the smallest and 
least prestigious schools financially 
stressed. ” Although schools such 
as these remain in the most need 
for support for funding, the state 
continues to neglect the needs of the 
poorer communities and less affluent 
school districts. 
In other nations, such as Finland, the government publicly funds all 
schools — thus no private or charter 
schools exist. In providing education 
in such a way, all Finnish students 
have an equal chance for receiving 
a high-quality education, despite 
the location they live in or from 
what socioeconomic background 
they come. The lack of competition 
and comparisons between Finnish 
schools also promote the nation’s 
education equality. And, as cited by 
Smithsonian.com, “[93] percent of 
Finns graduate from academic or 
vocational high schools ... and 66 
percent go on to higher education, 
the highest rate in the European 
Union. Y et Finland spends about 30 percent less per student than the 
United States. ” 
As education inequity continues 
to persist across the United States, 
it remains a vital duty of the 
national and state governments 
to enact policies that will limit the 
discrepancies present between 
wealthy and poor schools and regions. 
Whether officials create policies 
similar to those in Finland or simply 
design stricter guidelines for education 
budget allocations, the United States 
must begin to prioritize promising 
equal education for all students, no 
matter their backgrounds.
National and State Governments Responsible to Reduce Education Inequity
▶ FUNDING  from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
EMIL Y COLLINS6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Twenty pages of writing in one night. Y es, many students have unfortunately hit this stage, 
but they like to think of it as mastering the art of procrastination. Y et all who reach the 
point of having to physically hold their eyelids open eventually ask themselves, “Is this 
really worth it?” To some students the answer is “yes, ” but to others the answer is “no, ” and this 
is where the problem begins. Whether due to procrastination or plain temptation, cheating in 
college is omnipresent. 
“UCSD is not unique, ” Bertram Gallant, the director of the Academic Integrity Office, told the 
UCSD Guardian. “The kinds of cheating that we work to prevent here are universal — students 
copying assignments or exams from other students, plagiarizing, using unauthorized aids during 
exams and contract cheating. ”
Contract cheating involves paying a person or company to fulfill the requirements of 
an assignment. Specifically, these companies target millennial college students through 
endorsements from Vine stars and ads on social media streams; with a quick Google search, 
today’s students have access to a myriad of services dedicated to completing entire assignments. 
“The International Center for Academic Integrity, of which UCSD is an institutional member, 
is extremely concerned that these contract cheating companies are devaluing the meaning and 
usefulness of college degrees, ” Gallant told the Guardian. “[This] then erodes the educational 
system and negatively impacts a society that places great value in the attainment of higher-
education degrees. ”
However, these contract cheating companies are not the only ones creating the problem. 
Students, who are failing to report instances of not only contract cheating but cheating in general, 
also contribute to the problem.
“Students are co-creating a culture in which cheating is the norm and integrity is the 
exception, ” Gallant explained to the Guardian. “Students who are silent are helping to devalue 
their degree and are helping to create the next professional and executive who can’t be trusted. 
Thus, the member institutions of ICAI believe it is absolutely critical that students speak up and 
out for integrity. ”
Although all forms of cheating are condemned, Gallant emphasized the severity of contract 
cheating, which is considered fraud. Students caught contract cheating are suspended for a 
year at the very minimum; more often than not, they are dismissed entirely. In order to prevent 
expulsion from happening, the ICAI has taken on a massive international project to diminish 
contract cheating. 
“The main goal is to prevent students around the globe from falling victim to these contract 
cheating companies who posit their use as ‘normal’ or ‘acceptable’ because students are busy and 
do not have time to do their academic work, ” Gallant told the Guardian. “Our other goals are to 
help educational institutions prevent this type of cheating and detect it when it occurs. ”
The ICAI was not yet ready to closely discuss the work it’ s doing or success it has had thus far. 
Nonetheless, Gallant noted that UCSD’ s Office of Academic Integrity is excited about the international 
project and commented on how the ICAI is making changes at UCSD to prevent cheating. 
“Our ‘excel with integrity’ campaign reminds our campus that we can only achieve academic, 
research and athletic excellence with honest, fair, trustworthy, responsible, respectful and 
courageous behaviors, ” Gallant told the Guardian. 
Recognizing the moral character and courage it takes to maintain your 
own as well as others’ academic integrity in the face of external pressures, 
the ICAI has provided students with an anonymous online report form. 
This way, students and administration can work together in order to uphold 
integrity and stop cheating whenever possible. 
One such company, MyPaperWriter.com, has a feedback page filled with 
reviews on the “quality” of work it does. 
“I read the dissertation that they wrote for me and researched on internet 
thoroughly to check that it is genuinely written from scratch, ” one reviewer 
said about his recent experience with MyPaperWriter.com. “ And, the results 
were positive. Even if I had written it myself, the dissertation would not have 
come out like this. Now I know that the experts of this company work up to 
the expectations of the clients, in fact more than they expect. ” 
Still, students are attracted to the ease and security of contract cheating, 
which companies promote through misleading and enticing reviews that 
promise an easy A. 
“So there’s this pressure, and its driving a lot of people to do this; They’re 
not doing it because they’re bad people and they just love cheating, right?” 
Kiri Hagermann, who teaches in the Making of the Modern World writing 
program, told the Guardian. “They’re doing it as an easy way to make that 
grade that seems so important. ” 
Many students see only the benefits of contract teaching, and not the 
negatives of the deal: Companies like MyPaperWriter.com do not help 
students advance their intellectual abilities. When students look at their 
assignments, it can be tempting to see only the requirements, the deadlines 
and ultimately the grades. However, teachers and administrators want to 
stress that an assignment can be more than just a grade. 
“It’s disappointing to me because I really believe that it’s not really 
these grades that matter, and they seem [to] matter in the short term 
because you want your GPA to be high, and you think that will get [you] 
a job. But in the long term, failing your way through a few papers will 
be way better for you, because you’re actually going to learn, right?” 
Hagermann said. 
Writing classes can impart valuable skills that can be used in any 
career, and a student who uses contract cheating and doesn’t do the work CONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Life Sciences 
PHYS 002A. General Physics (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.   
Classical mechanics. 
PHYS 002B.  General Physics (4).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, 
discussion 1 hr. Fluids, thermodynamics, 
electromagnetism.
PHYS 002C . General Physics (4).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr. 
Waves, optics; quantum, atomic, and nuclear 
physics.2016 UCR 
Summer 
Courses in 
Physics and 
Astronomy
General course offerings for undergraduates in Life Sciences,  
Physical Sciences, Engineering, and Humanities
Summer School  Registration: 
May 16-June 15
Session 1: June 20-July 23
Session 2: July 25-August 27
For  more information, consult the 
UCR Catalog or contact (951) 827-
5332 for assistance. PHYS 02LA . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1. Lab 3 hrs. 
Laboratory for PHYS 002A.
PHYS 02LB . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1, Session 2.  
Lab 3 hrs. Laboratory for PHYS 002B.
PHYS 02LC . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 2. Lab 3 hrs.  
Laboratory for PHYS 002C.
Engineering and Physical Sciences
PHYS 040A.  General Physics (5).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr, 
lab 3 hrs. Classical mechanics.PHYS 040B. General Physics (5).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 
1 hr, lab 3 hrs. Thermodynamics, mechanical 
and sound waves, elasticity.
PHYS 040C. General Physics (5).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr,  
lab 3 hrs. Electricity and magnetism, elec -
tromagnetic oscillations; dc and ac current; 
circuits.
Humanities
PHYS 037.  The Origins (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.  
The Origin of the Universe, Origin of Matter, 
First Generation of Stars and Galaxies. Courtesy: National Science Foundation
Physics summer session 2016 6x5 ad.indd   1 3/9/16   12:37 PM
Contract 
Cheating
With many contract cheating 
companies boasting their 
services, college students have 
fallen victim to the tempation 
of cheating. The Guardian 
investigates this trend in cheating 
and the steps UCSD faculty is 
taking to combat it.Written by Noam Leead // Staff Writer
▶ See CONTRACT CHEATING,  page 8Photo by Patrick Lazo / UCSD GuardianDominic Spencer // Contributing WriterFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.
Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/host8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
might miss an opportunity to 
develop as a writer. 
“There’s some skills too, this 
ability to take something — a 
reading source or a visual source 
and something like that — and 
understand it when you haven’t seen 
that before, ” Sascha Crasnow, who 
also teaches in MMW , said. “That’s 
analysis that scientists do all the 
time in their labs, and exercising 
those skills in different ways. 
They’ve done studies that show 
when you learn skills in multiple 
ways it strengthens your abilities to 
do them and remember them. Those 
skills are applicable across a lot of 
different fields. ” 
 That lesson remains lost on 
many students who are narrowly 
focused on achieving high grades, 
and the long-term consequences of 
cheating are often ignored.
“Yeah, you make that grade, but 
that grade’s not going to matter, ” 
Hagermann said. “Whereas if you 
learn how to write, that will be 
beneficial to you your entire life. ”
Besides midterms, finals and a 
lack of sleep, what else does spring 
quarter involve? A broke college 
student. Although the academic 
year is almost ending, it is never too 
early for students to think ahead 
and to make sure they can pay off 
their loans before starting to pay 
for graduate school or that new car. 
Here are a few jobs to consider.
UCSD Shuttles
Perhaps underappreciated for 
the work they do, shuttle drivers 
provide a vital service to UCSD 
students. Whether saving students 
a 15-minute walk to class in 
the morning or bringing drunk 
partygoers safely home at night, 
they are always present in campus 
life, getting students where they 
need to go. The job isn’t without its 
perks either: with trainees’ salaries 
at $10.50 per hour and licensed 
drivers’ salaries at $15 per hour, 
shuttle drivers are well compensated 
for their work, which, for those who 
love driving, can hardly be called 
“work” at all.
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
junior Hunter Smothers has been 
driving for UCSD Shuttles since Fall 
Quarter 2014. With more than two 
years of experience under his belt, 
Smothers knows the ins and outs of 
his profession — particularly which 
routes are the best to drive.
“My favorite route I would say is 
probably either the Hillcrest route 
or Sanford shuttle, ” Smothers told 
the UCSD Guardian. “The Hillcrest 
route because for each of your shifts 
they are usually about three hours long and for CMC [Hillcrest], the 
route is so long that you only do 
two loops per shift, so it’s not just 
getting monotonous with constant 
loops. And on that route you 
usually get quite a bit of downtime. ”
According to Smothers, shuttles 
offer a very flexible work schedule 
that allows for a good work-life 
balance. Shuttle drivers choose 12 
hours of permanent weekly shifts 
at the beginning of each quarter, 
which they can plan to fit their 
classes. Furthermore, though UCSD 
Transportation Services wants 
drivers to work 12 hours each week 
on average, drivers are free to drop 
shifts and take other drivers’ shifts 
throughout the week.
“The nice thing about this job is 
that as long as there are people who 
are willing to pick up your shifts 
you usually don’t have to worry too 
much about getting things covered 
if you have a midterm to study for 
or a final or something like that, ” 
Smothers said. “There has been 
an issue over the last year or so of 
just not having enough people, so 
there are a lot of shifts that don’t get 
picked up, and sometimes people 
will have to offer $5 or $10 over 
Venmo to get their shifts picked up if 
they really, really need it picked up. ”
When comparing his job to those 
of Metropolitan Transit System bus 
drivers, Smothers is thankful that he 
can rely on his passengers being an 
orderly, polite bunch.
“[UCSD students] are usually 
all polite, even when they’re 
drunk — yes, we get quite a few of 
those people too, ” Smothers said. 
“Sometimes they’re just funny — 
some people can be disruptive, but we usually don’t have many 
problems with that. I can probably 
count on one hand the times that 
anyone I know has had to tell 
someone on their bus to leave. ”
RIMAC
Summer is approaching, and for 
most students, that means pumping 
those weights and fixing their 
diets. For those who enjoy going 
to the gym and prepping for that 
summer body, staying around the 
gym outside of working out can 
be good motivation. Main Gym 
and RIMAC offer several student 
job opportunities as concessions 
workers, facility supervisors and 
pool- and ground-maintenance 
crew members.
ERC junior Omkar Mahajan 
recently started working as a weight 
room attendant this quarter. He 
decided to take this job because of 
his passion for maintaining a healthy 
lifestyle and his love for the gym.
“It’s great to see people coming to 
the gym striving to be more healthy, ” 
Mahajan told the Guardian. “ After 
all, a healthy body equals a healthy 
mind. Also, I’m doing something I 
love and that’s the most important 
thing in any job. ”
  Mahajan’s main role is 
operating the front desk in the 
weight room at RIMAC, making 
sure people have their towels as 
well as their IDs and are following 
weight room rules. In addition to 
that, he keeps an eye out for broken 
equipment and thinks it’s important 
that people put their weights back 
after they’re done. He finds the job 
convenient because it’s on campus 
and close to his apartment.
“I live on campus, so it is more convenient for me, and I don’t have 
to worry about transportation, ” 
Mahajan said. “ Also, UCSD 
Recreation and UCSD itself are very 
reliable employers. On the other 
hand, there’s always the risk that if 
you work somewhere off-campus, 
you may not know what you’re 
getting yourself into. ”
Mahajan plans to stay at his 
job until he graduates. One thing 
that never fails to amuse him is the 
number of familiar faces he sees.
“I’ve seen some of my TAs and 
even professors come here to work 
out at the gym — it’s amazing. ”
Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography
UCSD’s main campus is not 
the only location for close jobs 
convenient for students. The 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography 
is dedicated to carrying out 
research on the ocean, earth and 
atmospheric sciences. Apart from 
offering careers for oceanographers, 
assistant professors and biologists, 
the center offers undergraduate 
programs and jobs for students.
ERC junior Sean Pfeifer is a 
student assistant for the Scripps 
Climate, Atmospheric Sciences, and 
Physical Oceanography Business 
Office. His job includes purchasing 
orders, writing journal vouchers, 
making reimbursement payments 
and running errands. He works in 
the office six hours per week and at 
the county for 14 hours more each 
week. Pfeifer decided to switch from 
a different on-campus job because 
he felt this one better suited his 
goals for the future.
“My first job on campus was 
working for the special events parking operations department, but 
toward the end of freshman year I 
thought I’ d better get a job featuring 
more marketable skills, so I decided 
to apply for a few office positions, ” 
Pfiefer told the Guardian. 
“CASPO called me first; I had a 
brief interview and got started in 
September of my sophomore year. ”
Pfeifer typically takes a short 
shuttle ride from campus to Scripps 
after class and then goes back to 
campus for discussion sections or to 
study, which is easier than getting to 
his county job in Kearny Mesa that 
requires a 10- to 15-minute drive. He 
likes staying on campus as employers 
are more familiar with the university 
schedule, which helps him plan time 
off. He also enjoys the job itself and 
the diversity within his workplace.
“I enjoy being in a different 
atmosphere while in office, ” Pfeifer 
says. “Most of my co-workers 
are full-time and live lives very 
different from us college students — 
midterms, for example, mean nearly 
nothing to them. It all combines to 
give me some perspective on what 
to stay focused on, and what to 
avoid stressing too much about. ”
The university offers many 
jobs for students beyond the ones 
featured here in places such as the 
UCSD Bookstore, Geisel Library 
and the parking office. Though 
many of these jobs may not seem 
pertinent to students’ majors, they 
can provide a helpful salary as 
well as invaluable experience for 
building a proper work ethic.
Harrison  Lee  hhl032@ucsd.eduBehind the  LecternProfessor Vanesa Ribas: Studying Sociology in the Wild
Among the books lining the office of Vanesa Ribas, a sociology professor here at UCSD,  
is one of her own, entitled “On the Line: The Working Lives of Latinos and African-
Americans in the New South. ” The book chronicles the race relations between the 
Latino and African-American workers she observed at a Southern meatpacking plant following 
a recent surge in Latino immigration. The book examines Latino immigration and its effect on 
the social dynamics of the workplace.  
Born and raised in Puerto Rico, Ribas moved to New Y ork at the age of 18 to attend Sarah 
Lawrence College. Here, she developed a passion for social justice and decided it was a path she 
wanted to pursue, regardless of which professional track it took her on.  After leaving college, 
Ribas searched eight months for a full time job before eventually finding work at the Legal Aid 
Society of New Y ork. There she practiced welfare law, helping clients who were having trouble 
with welfare get the social service she thought they deserved. Vanesa represented clients who 
needed to be on welfare or were having issues with welfare and argued their case.
After a few years working with the Legal Aid Society, she attended graduate school at 
the University of North Carolina, where, during her fifth year, she began to carry out her 
dissertation fieldwork in rural North Carolina. She took a job at a meatpacking plant to study 
race relations in what she refers to as the “New South. ”“The South that I remembered from being little and the South that I was now in, in grad 
school, were completely different, ” Ribas told the UCSD Guardian.
The change came in the form of a relatively recent influx of Latino immigrants, 
drastically affecting the Southern workforce demographic. After working in the factory for a 
year and a half, Vanesa observed that racial tension between Latino and African-American 
workers came from the Latino workers’ belief that they were oppressed, leading to some 
antagonism against the African-American workers. However, little tension came directly 
from the African-American workers. 
“People are working 12 to 15 hours a day; they have to make it work one way or another, ” 
Ribas explained. 
Her interest in social dynamics was fueled by her own family dynamics, having a white 
American mother and a Puerto Rican father. 
“Growing up in these border areas in terms of your identity or your status made me very 
perceptive, aware, or observant to dynamics… ” says Ribas.
Ultimately her hard work and willingness to truly invest herself in her fieldwork yielded a 
highly acclaimed sociological work. Her curiosity and passion are evident in her writing as well 
as in the eagerness and warmth with which she speaks. ▶ CONTRACT CHEATING,  from page 6
Oliver  Kel ton  okelton@ucsd.edu 
Al vin  Chan   alchan@ucsd.eduNoam  Leead  nleead@ucsd.edu 
Dominic Spencer   d1spence@ucsd.edu
Will Work For Ramen: On-Campus Job Opportunities for Students
BY   O l i v e r   K e l t o n   // 
Al vin  Chan  // Senior Staff WriterUCSD offers a variety of jobs for students who need to make a little money on the side. The Guardian talks to student employees about their work and day-to-day lives.Illustrations by Christina CarlsonCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 IDAN COHEN DANCE COMPANY
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUMFRI, MAY 20  • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 16 - MAY 222016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 5.18 TUE 5.17
7am
ACCB PRESENTS: BREAKFAST AT THE LOOP- 
REGENTS SHUTTLE LOOP
Enjoy breakfast on us (ACCB) at the loop outside the 
Price Center Commuter Lounge! Muffins, oranges and 
coffee from Starbucks are available!!! Just come and 
grab! Find out what ACCB can do for you in order to 
improve your experience as a commuter at UCSD!
11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
1pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
June us in learning new tips for financial success both 
in and out of college from the Financial Aid and 
Scholarships Office. Be prepared to have fun while 
gaining skills to help your financial future! 5/11: How 
to Get Out from Under Your Student Loan Debt, 5/18: 
How to Understand Your Paycheck, Where Does Your 
Money Go?, 5/25: The Big Q&A with a Panel of Experts
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career goals.
3pm
ETHNIC STUDIES DEPARTMENT 25TH 
ANNIVERSARY KEYNOTE- GREAT HALL, I-HOUSE
In our 25th Anniversary Keynote "Over the Rainbow: 
Second Wave Ethnic Studies Against the Neoliberal 
Turn," Robin D. G. Kelley discusses lessons from the 
anti-racist student protests of the 1990s for our 
contemporary crises.
3pm
GLOBAL FORUM AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE- 
THE GREAT HALL AT I-HOUSE
The Global Forum at International House, formerly 
known as the International Affairs Group (IAG), 
recognizes the diversity in "International Affairs"   and 
the events we host reflect this variety. The Global 
Forum is a public program run by UC San Diego's 
International House. Its mission statement is to 
heighten our understanding of global issues and 
increase our awareness of the world in which we live. 
The Global Forum is a program that plays a leading 
role in the international dimension of campus life 
through speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal presentations.
5:30pm
NIGHT WITH EVONEXUS: EARLY SEED FUNDING 
SUCCESS- EVONEXUS LA JOLLA
The Basement will host its next Night with EvoNexus 
quarterly program series at EvoNexus' UTC facility! The 
panel program will focus on securing early seed 
funding success for your startup and will be 
moderated by Tim Rueth, Startup Investor, Advisor, 
Consultant and Entrepreneur-In-Residence at UC San 
Diego. Program panelists, Jeff Draa, CEO of Grolltex, 
Luke Sophinos, CEO of CourseKey, and Leo Trottier, 
CEO of CleverPet, will share their experiences in 
raising early successful rounds of capital and examine 
what it takes to get there.
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: GEOGRAPHER- THE LOFT, PC 
EAST
FREE for UCSD undergraduates // $15 General 
Admission 
Tickets available at the UCSD Box Office. FRI5.20
10am
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA FLOW- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER 
A moderately paced yoga class that connects breath 
with movement in precise alignment to create 
greater awareness, strength and stability. 
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where international 
and domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and 
the local community can come together to celebrate 
cultural diversity and international education. Each 
week the Friday Cafe presents the opportunity to 
explore world cultures, cuisines, music and more. 
Join us for this unique international experience! 
Price: $5 per plate
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS IDAN COHEN DANCE 
COMPANY - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Idan Cohen was born and raised in Israel, kibbutz 
Mizra. The kibbutz life has had a wide effect on his 
artistic life and work. He joined the world renowned 
Kibbutz Contemporary Dance Company in 1998, 
where he danced for seven seasons. Since 2005 he 
has been creating, performing and teaching 
successfully as an international award-winning 
independent choreographer. His new creation is an 
autobiographical fantasy that returns to Cohen ’s 
early years growing up in the ‘80s. Drawing upon 
punk and pop culture, Gender Bender incorporates 
images that reflect personal and social identities of 
masculinity, femininity and all that lies between. The 
piece takes ’80s gender-inspired images on a 
journey throughout the past and the present and 
creates a cultural cobweb of music, imagery, dance, 
and aspires to be a reflection of the influences and 
forces projected on us by the past and present 
culture, as well as our social environment.  Tickets: 
$28-48; $12 UCSD Student10am
FITNESS ZONE: BOMBAY JAM- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Bombay Jam is the ultimate dance fitness total 
body workout that is effective, safe, easy to follow 
and packed with authentic Bollywood flavor! 
Bombay Jam incorporates cardio and toning 
routines into one action packed total body 
workout, and routines are set to custom music 
mixes created by Bombay's hottest DJs.
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.MON 5.16
2pm
BLACK BEAN, CORN, RED PEPPER, AVOCADO 
SALAD WITH LIME-CILANTRO VINAIGRETTE - 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come join us as we make Black Bean, Corn, Red 
Pepper, Avocado Salad with Lime-Cilantro Vinaigrette 
hosted by the Michelle (FitLife & WorkStrong Dietitian) 
and get FREE samples! Materials and ingredients are 
provided. Space is limited, first come, first served.
3:30pm
SPRING QUARTERLY CONVERSATIONS IN GLOBAL 
HEALTH, TOPIC: REFUGEE HEALTH- GREAT HALL, 
I HOUSE
Come to the Great Hall on Monday, May 16th to learn 
more about our topic for Spring Quarterly 
Conversations in Global Health: Refugee Health! 
Speakers: David Murphy, Executive Director of the 
International Rescue Committee San Diego. Kathi 
Anderson, Executive Director and Co-founder of 
Survivors of Torture International and Chair of the San 
Diego Refugee Forum. Wael Al-Delaimy, MD PhD, 
Professor and Chief of Division of Global Health at UC 
San Diego School of Medicine. Danielle Horyniak, PhD, 
Division of Global Health, UC San Diego School of 
Medicine Reception and refreshments to follow event.
5pm
LINK2DESIGN- THE BASEMENT
The Design Lab and the Basement have partnered up 
with a panel of design leaders from a range of design 
industries, who will speak about job opportunities, 
market trends, and the power and value of design as a 
driver for San Diego's economy. Please register at 
LINK2SANDIEGO.COM This is a wonderful opportunity 
to stay for the reception and have a chance to network 
with design industry representatives!
 
SAT 5.14
11am
LET'S BE CHILDISH - 6401 SKYLINE DR, SAN 
DIEGO, CA 92114
Join us as we de-stress and connect with community 
through some food, games, and entertainment!THU 5.19
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance. Workshop led by: 
Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES- THE ZONE 
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
2pm
ACCB PRESENTS: SOCIAL POWER HOUR, GUEST: 
RAZA RESOURCES CENTER- PC COMMUTER 
LOUNGE
Welcome officers from Raza Resources Centro to be 
our guests for this social power hour!!! The Raza 
Resource Centro (RRC) is one of the newest Campus 
Community Centers under the new Vice Chancellor of 
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at UC San Diego. Come 
meet representatives from Raza Resources Centro and 
All Campus Commuter Board! You learn more about 
what we do or suggest ways to improve! Feel free to 
stop by our table in the Price Center to chat and enjoy 
free food!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE- CUZCO LOUNGE- 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
EARN YOUR PASSPORT & "TRAVEL" to a different 
region every week! Learn about life and culture from 
current students who have lived and studied in various 
regions of the world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food 
from the highlighted region each week! ALL 
STUDENTS WELCOME! FREE FOOD! ALL STUDENTS 
WELCOME! FREE FOOD!
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Young fish
 4 Deep, unnatural sleep
 9 Addis __, Ethiopia
 14 “Seinfeld” uncle
 15 Texas landmark
 16 Bob and Elizabeth
 17 Bull markets
 18 Start of Bernard Baruch quote
 20 Cost of living?
 22 Boardroom bigwig
 23 Factual
 24 Part 2 of quote
 27 Olympic sled
 28 Deposited
 29 Piccadilly Circus statue
 30 Chart anew
 31 Columbus Day mo.
 32 Lena of “Chocolat”
 33 Former French coin
 34 Part 3 of quote
 36 Part 4 of quote
 40 Pers. pension
 41 Symbol of office
 42 Numero __
 43 Deer sirs
 46 “South Park” boy
 47 Glee club voice
 48 Baloney!
 49 Part 5 of quote
 51 Junior exec
 52 Chem. contaminant
 53 Abound
 54 End of quote
 58 A Turner
 60 Blew it
 61 Churchill Downs event
 62 1969 Peace Prize grp.
 63 In place
 64 Outer limits
 65 Big Apple inits.Down
 1 Grippe
 2 Censure
 3 Park in California
 4 Took care of
 5 Catalonian cheer
 6 Block of paper
 7 Greek vowel
 8 Cowboys’ showcases
 9 Big fuss
 10 Keep inside
 11 Old-fashioned warning
 12 Caviar source
 13 Sawing logs
 19 Alternative to smoking?
 21 Beatty of “Deliverance”
 24 Coagulate
 25 “Chicago” role
 26 Buffalo’s county
 30 Churn up
 32 Boat propellers
 33 Alan Ladd classic
 35 Take a tour
 36 Cause to wither
 37 Brief announcement
 38 Early or late
 39 Warner Bros. creation
 41 Pierced
 43 Forceful flowings
 44 Hebrew month
 45 Declare
 46 Break away
 47 Pint drink, perhaps
 49 Typist’s stat
 50 Bar members, briefly
 55 Append
 56 Part of NATO
 57 Jurist Fortas
 59 Elmer, to BugsBIKES
Cannondale SR Road Bicycle (Large) - $300. 
This bike has treated me well, hope it does 
the same to the buyer. The bike features 
are as follows: Large Aluminum Frame, 
Carbon fork with head shock, Mavic racing 
rims, Shimano Tiagra Shifters, Shimano 105 
Crankset. Last model that was made in the 
U.S. Listing ID: 263324621 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2009 Novara Divano Men’s Road Bike 59cm 
- $150. Size XL (men’s 59cm) road bike, 
Tiagra drivetrain, tires are flat. Listing ID: 
263324620 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Trek 520 Touring Bike (Carlsbad) - $400. 
Frame is 21 ins, 32in stand over height. 
Frame was recently bead blasted and pow -
der coated black. No dents, no dings, no 
rust. Listing ID: 262480462 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more informationELECTRONICS
MCM Beats Brand New in Box (Never 
Opened) - $280. Studio beats for sale. 
Regular price is sold at $380. Don’t miss out 
on this deal! $280. First two customers will 
get them for $250, limited edition. Listing 
ID: 263324692 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
TASCAM Professional Portable Audio 
Recorder - $125. TASCAM DP-008 8-Track 
Digital Pocketstudio. Check it out on 
YouTube. I’ll include an eight Gig SanDisk 
with it for free!! Listing ID: 263324689 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Black Smart Balance Board - $250. Brand 
new black smart balance board includes travel bag & charger. Key NOT included. 
Listing ID: 263324686 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
IKEA Gateleg Table - $100. In terrific condi -
tion. Retails new for $199. Lightly used. 
Listing ID: 263324715 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Desk and Leather Chair - $250. Fantastic 
working desk included with leather desk 
chair. Listing ID: 263324712 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Three-Couch Set for Sale - $150. Sold as 
a set. One-seat, two-seat (loveseat), and 
three-seat couches. In excellent condition. 
Clean, no scratches, tears, etc. Available 
now! Pickup in Linda Vista. Listing ID: 
263324710 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
treasures
vintage
fashion
UCSD International Center
Tuesday - Friday, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(858) 534-1124 • shopfic@ucsd.edu
@Friends_Resale_ShopV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O
P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The stakes were high on Saturday 
at the Westmont All On The Line 
Open, as the meet provided the 
Tritons’ track and field team a 
final attempt to claim a spot in the 
national championships, which will 
held two weeks from now.
Junior jumper and thrower 
Savanna Forry gave herself the best 
chance to qualify for the national 
championships as she went on to 
improve her provisional qualifier on 
the high jump from 5’7.25” to 5’7.75” 
to win the high jump event. Senior 
teammate Kristen Daugherty placed 
third in the high jump with a mark of 
5’5” , while on the men’s side, senior 
Sean Cook (6’6.75”) and sophomore 
Raymond Silver (6’2.75”) finished 
sixth and eighth, respectively.  
The women’s 4x400 relay team 
of sophomore Meghan Fletcher, 
juniors Jackie Chalmers and Marisa 
Padilla and senior Ellexi Snover 
slightly improved its provisional mark by a bit over half a second 
with a time of 3.47.45, while the 
men’s 4x100 relay team of freshman 
Andrew Dirks, sophomores Justin 
Hunter and Paul Doan and junior 
Emmanuel Elijah finished with a 
time of 41.22. 
Sophomore Matt Bowen, who 
already qualified for the NCAAs, 
went on to win the triple jump with 
a mark of 49’0.75” .
In the women’s javelin competition, 
senior Haley Libuit (135’2”) placed 
second while attempting to improve 
her qualifying time, but missed the 
mark. Snover, however, was able to 
to take third in the event with a 
throwing distance of 129’1” . In the 
men’s javelin, senior Travis Vandegriff 
(193’2”) was the sole Triton and made 
UCSD proud by putting up a solid 
performance, finishing second among 
a field of eight.  
Senior Daniel Franz nearly turned 
in a personal-best performance in 
the 3000-meter steeplechase with a 
time of 9:16.62 but was off the mark 
by just four seconds.  Meanwhile, relay team member 
Fletcher participated in the 400-
meter hurdles, finishing sixth with a 
time of 1:03.32.
Next up, junior Chrissi Carr aced 
the pole vault event by finishing at 
the top of the event with a clearance 
of 12’2.5” .
Meanwhile, sophomore Nick 
Famolaro (1:56.18) finished 10th in 
the 800-meter race in a field of 16 
individuals.  
The Westmont meet brings the 
curtain down to a brilliant season 
for some Tritons, but for a select 
few, the chance at glory will take 
place at the NCAA Championships 
in Bradenton, Florida from May 26 
to May 28. The Triton champions 
will be looking to put in two solid 
weeks of training in order to 
make a statement at the national 
championships. The national 
qualifiers will be announced on May 
17 on NCAA.com via press release.UCSD baseball participated in its 
third-straight California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Tournament 
this past weekend at Banner Island 
Ballpark in Stockton. The Tritons 
would go on to win one and lose 
two in the double elimination 
tournament, ending their season well 
over .500 with a 31–21 overall record. 
In the tournament opener, 
UCSD’s late rally proved insufficient, 
as it lost 11–7 to Cal State Monterey 
Bay. However, the team would then 
go on to win in walk-off fashion 
against No. 6-seeded Chico State 
by 7–6 to stay in the tournament. 
Nonetheless, the Tritons would end 
up outplayed by No. 1-seeded Cal 
Poly Pomona 9–6 in what became 
their final game of the season. 
Second-game rival Chico State 
would notably go on to play in the 
CCAA Championship.
Game One — Cal State Monterey 
Bay 11, UCSD 7
The Tritons fell to the No. 
3-seeded Otters Wednesday 
evening, in what came to be the 
highest combined scoring game 
of the tournament, as Cal State 
Monterey Bay’s high-powered 
offense, shelling out seven runs in 
just the first inning, proved too 
much for freshman starting pitcher 
Jonah Dipoto.
Two-run homers by senior 
first-baseman Kevin Davidson and 
sophomore catcher Hayden Duer 
catapulted the Otters to an early 
lead. In fact, it wasn’t until five hits 
and one walk that Dipoto managed 
to record his first out of the game, 
which was followed by three more 
singles, boosting Cal State Monterey 
Bay’s lead to 7–0 at the conclusion 
of the first. 
The Otters got to their greatest 
lead, 9–0, after the third, following 
a two-run dinger of the game by 
senior outfielder Chris Blanton.
However, the Tritons finally got 
the offense rolling in the fourth 
inning after a hit by pitch and a 
walk; junior outfielder Brandon 
Shirley doubled down the left-field 
line. Senior first-baseman Zach 
Friedman added a run with a runs 
batted in single, but the inning 
ended when Shirley was called out 
at the plate. 
UCSD then loaded the bases in 
the fifth inning following senior designated hitter Gradeigh Sanchez’s 
walk, junior third-baseman JD 
Hearn’s second single of the night and 
another walk to junior right fielder 
Jack Larsen. Sophomore catcher 
Steven Coe then hit a two-run single 
on a 3–2 count; a third walk and a 
hit by pitch brought in another run, 
making it a six-point game. 
In the ninth inning, UCSD was 
only able to gain two more runs 
on three hits. This, along with the 
the loss in the tournament opener, 
brought the Tritons one more loss 
away from an elimination.
Game Two — UCSD 7, Chico 
State 6
Coe was 0–4 on the night. He 
had been called out four times on fly 
balls and left three runners on base 
so far. Things weren’t looking well, 
but when it mattered most, Coe 
delivered. In what would’ve been 
UCSD’s final game of the season, 
the Tritons managed to garner a 
three-run ninth inning, highlighted 
by Coe’s walk-off single, to stay in 
the CCAA Tournament. 
The bottom of the ninth started 
with the Tritons trailing 4–6, when 
sophomore first-baseman Justin 
Flatt led off with a single to left 
field and his second hit of the night. 
To counter the Wildcats senior left-
handed pitcher AJ Epstein, head 
coach Eric Newman chose junior 
infielder Vince Mori to pinch hit, which was a wise move as Mori also 
singled to bring two runners on with 
no outs. Sanchez then hit a sacrifice 
bunt and brought both runners 
into scoring position. Following a 
pop up, Hearn, who was 4–7 in 
the tournament, hit a game-tying 
double to left center. Chico State 
then intentionally walked Larsen to 
bring up Coe and make a force out 
easier. The Wildcats underestimated 
Coe as he produced a clutch, game-
winning single up the middle. 
However, UCSD’s victory can’t 
be credited to a single athlete, as the 
Tritons worked together to power 
hit and patiently bat, allowing them 
to bring in the first four runs that 
kept them in the game. 
In the first inning, after Hearn 
had a two-out walk, Larsen homered 
deep to right field on the first pitch. 
The Triton then loaded the bases in 
the fifth inning, following a couple 
of singles and Hearn working the 
count for a walk. Junior right-
handed pitcher Dalton Erb then 
threw a wild pitch against Larsen, 
advancing the runners and driving 
in Sanchez. Deja vu struck in the 
eighth inning, as Larsen hit his 
second homer of the game and sixth 
of the season deep to right field. 
Triton senior left-handed pitcher 
Eric Moersen was able to earn his 
first win after pitching 0.1 innings, 
having faced only one batter. Wildcat junior right-handed pitcher Steven 
Baker, however, got the loss and 
moved to 4–6 after giving a run on 
a hit and a walk in the ninth inning. 
UCSD escaped with a victory 
and moved on to play its second 
elimination game Friday night 
against the No. 1-seeded Cal Poly 
Pomona.
Game Three — Cal Poly Pomona 
9, UCSD 6
UCSD had previously beaten Cal 
Poly Pomona in four of the five 
times they met during the regular 
season. Unfortunately, in what was 
the most important matchup of the 
season, the Tritons were unable 
to follow tradition and, instead, 
their season came to an end as 
they were eliminated in the CCAA 
Tournament by the Broncos Friday 
night. Nonetheless, they put up 
an admirable fight as they came 
back from a 5–0 deficit, only to be 
defeated 9–6 in the end.
For the fourth game in a row, 
the Tritons allowed an opposing 
team to score in the first inning. 
Cal Poly Pomona was aggressive, 
to say the least, with at-bats 
contributing to the team’s four-run 
first and overall nine-point game. 
The first inning started with senior 
outfielder Jared James leading off 
double to left center and advancing 
to third, following a sacrifice hit. 
Triton freshman left-handed pitcher Preston Mott then proceeded to 
walk junior infielder Jason Padlo 
on four straight balls, giving senior 
infielder Caleb Romo a double to 
drive in two runs but was called 
out at third. This was followed by 
a single from freshman infielder 
Nic Hernandez and a home run by 
senior outfielder Daniel Pitts that 
left UCSD down by four runs. 
Even though the Broncos tacked 
on another run in the second on an 
RBI single by Romo, UCSD was still 
able to tie the game, as it put up a 
fifth run during the fifth inning 
With runners on first and 
second, sophomore second baseman 
Tim White singled on a 1–2 count 
to drive in junior shortstop Tyler 
Howsley while Sanchez, who had 
advanced to third, scored on a wild 
pitch from sophomore pitcher Ryan 
Alswoth. Coe, who was brought 
up following a strikeout and walk, 
doubled to left field to bring in 
White as Flatt drove the final two 
runs in with a two-RBI single. 
The tie was quickly forgotten; 
however, since Cal Poly Pomona added 
four more runs via a two-run homer, a 
solo dinger and an RBI single between 
the fifth and sixth innings. 
The Tritons counted their final 
out of the season in the ninth on 
sophomore infielder Tyler Plantier’s 
line out and hope glimmered in the 
ninth even though UCSD was down 
9–5. UCSD was able to score Larsen 
on an error and advance runners to the 
corners. However, the Tritons counted 
their final out of the season when 
Plantier lined out to second base. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Tim Nelson gave up four runs 
in 3.2 innings to get the loss and 
move to 7–2. Bronco sophomore 
relief pitcher Peter Beattie, in turn, 
managed to withhold the Tritons 
after the five-run rally, improving 
to 5–1 after facing 20 batters and 
striking out only one. 
UCSD baseball concluded 
the season with an overall 
record of 31–21 and finished its 
12th appearance at the CCAA 
Tournament. Prior to the 
tournament, the Tritons had only 
allowed, at most, one homer per 
game. They will, therefore, have to 
look to next year to earn another 
over-0.500 season and to compete 
in the CCAA Championship. Tritons Baseball Season Ends; Lose Two Of  Three Games In Stockton
Tritons Finish With A Strong ShowingAfter rallying in the ninth and walking off against Chico State, UCSD can not get back to winnning ways against number one Cal Poly.
Sophomore Matt Bowen earns first place in the triple jump after qualifying for NCAA ’ s.BY  A n t h o n y   T z e n g
BY  D A N I E L  H E R N A N D E Z
SENIOR BASEBALL
TRACK & FIELD
Anthony  Tzeng   PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN daniel  hernandez     SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS 
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now ready
Learn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856
IS UCSD  
Ready for  D1?The Guardian took a look at the rankings of  five of UCSD’s sports teams (two men’s, three 
women’s) over the past 10 years to see how they were performing. Here’s what we found.
Written and compiled by Ayat Amin // Data Visualization Editor
Over the past 10 years, women’s soccer has 
consistently won more games than they have lost. 
Graph by Nazior RahmanThis year, the women’s basketball team had a stellar 
game where they won by a record 58 points. 
Graph by Miguel ShekerThe red line indicates the margins which women’ s volleyball 
won games by; the higher it is, the better the win. 
Graph by Dieter Joubert
Men’ s soccer consistently qualified for the CCAA 
tournament, a good sign of team performance. 
Graph by Nazior RahmanOnly in the years ‘08, ‘13, ‘14, and ‘15 was the men’s 
basketball team’s point differential positive.
Graph by Miguel ShekerSports at UCSD are in good shape. For all the teams mentioned here, 
more games were won than lost in 2015. 
Men’s soccer has won games at a consistent and competitive 
rate over the past 10 years. While the ranking for men’s basketball team 
fluctuates from year to year, 2015 was a uniquely high-performing year. 
The team won 70 percent of their games this season, and had a record 
high point differential from the past 10 years. 
However, the real stars of the show are UCSD’s women’s teams. 
The women’s soccer team has consistently won at least half the 
games they have played over the past 10 years. Similarly, the 
women’s basketball and the women’s volleyball teams both scored 
more points overall during the season than they conceded. In 
addition, both women’s basketball and volleyball won a minimum of 
60 percent of their games each year over the past 10 years.  
Overall, the data shows that athletic teams at UCSD, especially 
the women’s teams, are competitive enough to go D1. However, it is 
up to students to decide if the campus is ready for the commitment. 
Data and code can be found at: 
www.github.com/dataViz-UCSDGuardian/sport_performance
Ayat   A m i n     UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Tennis 
Track & Field
W.Rowing
M.Rowing5/18
5/26
5/27
6/3AT NCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
AT IRA Championships