VOLUME 50, ISSUE 13   THURSDA Y , NOVEMBER 3, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SAN DIEGO ASIAN 
FILM FESTIVAL
GIFTING OUR CITY WITH 
ASIA’S FINEST FILMS SINCE 
2000, CINEPHILES OF WORLD 
CINEMA CAN REJOICE. 
KUROSAWA KOOKS AND DIAZ 
DISCIPLES ARE ONLY A STEP 
AWAY FROM THEIR FIX.
LET'S GET  IT  ON
JUST KEEP SWIMMINGMALE   CONTRACEPTIVES
swi m  dom i na tes  a t  h om eOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THESE REMINDERS , ALONG  WITH 
THE RECEN T DATA-BACKED    
FINDING  THAT TEENAGE  GIRLS  ON 
THE PILL ARE MORE  LIKELY  TO 
SEEK ANTIDEPRESSAN TS THAN 
THEIR COUN TERPAR TS WHO ARE 
NOT ON THE PILL, SPEAK  NOT SO 
MUCH  AS TO WHAT MEN CAN OR 
CANNO T HANDLE  BUT WITH WHAT 
WOMEN  HAVE BEEN FORCED  TO 
HANDLE  FOR DECADES .”
- Guardian Editorial Board
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......3
VOTING AT UCSD  .............4
WHAT WOULD FLOTUS DO?8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
CROSS COUNTRY  .......... 11WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON /UCSD GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
H 71 L 58FRIDAY
H 70 L 57
SATURDAY
H 70 L 57SUNDAY
 H 67 L 55
The UC Berkeley Interfraternity 
and Panhellenic Councils decided to 
lift a self-imposed ban on fraternity 
and sorority parties last Tuesday, 
establishing new guidelines in light 
of recently reported sexual assaults 
that occurred at fraternity parties 
last month. 
The ban was in effect for one week. 
The decision was made at a 
closed-door joint social and risk 
management roundtable held by the 
two councils, where they discussed 
methods to improve safety at social 
and community events and other 
threats to campus like a recent 
shooting and clown sightings. 
The provisions agreed upon at the 
meeting include providing the contact 
information for three sober monitors 
at every social event, standardizing 
brief “consent talks” to partygoers 
before entering an event, banning 
hard alcohol and making sure there is only one location per party to 
re-up on beer. The council is also 
considering making Greek parties 
exclusive to Greek students only. 
According to the SFGate, IFC 
President David Saedi acknowledged 
that rules have been overlooked in 
the past but the implementation of 
the new student-led Greek standards 
board and an existing policy of 
having party monitors who watch for 
violations have successfully lowered 
“the amount of cases that go to the 
university and instead are handled by 
us internally. ”
“We realize that risk management 
plans need to have continuity across 
all members of the community, and 
we hold ourselves to the highest 
standards for risk management, ” 
the community agreement stated.                                                                                                                              
“We acknowledge our 
collective community failures,                                         
and we move forward to support 
survivors and minimize the harm 
in our community. ”
Although the reinforced rules apply to both affiliated and 
unaffiliated Greek organizations at 
UC Berkeley, Eric Berger, the IFC                                                                                                                                 
vice president, noted that the IFC 
only has jurisdiction over affiliated 
fraternities. 
Daniel Evans, a member of 
the affiliated fraternity Acacia, 
said unaffiliated fraternities and 
sororities will be incentivized to 
follow the new guidelines, and 
Divya Thomas, the president of 
UC Berkeley’s Panhellenic Council, 
stated separately that some 
unaffiliated organizations attended 
the roundtable, agreeing to follow 
the community agreements. 
Saedi said about the improved 
rules that “a lot of the changes are 
just a change in social norms. ” 
And while Saedi believes “all of 
this is 100 percent preventable if we 
are all vigilant and aware, ” others 
are more skeptical. 
“I personally felt that talk of Sally Ride 
Research Vessel 
Commissioned 
by U.S. NavySCRIPPS
Elected officials and members 
of the Navy held a ceremony 
prior to opening the ship up to 
the public for self-guided tours.    
Over the weekend, students 
had the opportunity to tour the 
research vessel Sally Ride, which is 
the most technologically advanced 
oceanographic research ship in the 
world. The ship is owned by the 
U.S. navy, but it is operated by the 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography 
at UCSD. The mission of the ship 
is to conduct research to find 
solutions for some of the planet’s 
most pressing problems. The ship 
is named after astronaut Sally Ride, 
the first woman to go to space in 
1983 who later became a physics 
professor at UCSD in 1989. 
On Saturday, Oct. 29, R/V Sally 
Ride was docked in San Diego and 
offered free tours to the public. Muir 
College junior Kristine Khieu, the 
current president of the Tritons for 
Sally Ride Science, a new student 
organization aimed at getting young 
kids interested in science, told the 
UCSD Guardian that she was satisfied 
with the attendance at the event. 
“There was a great turnout of 
UCSD alumni and students, ” Khieu 
said. “[Naming the vessel after Sally 
Ride] is a huge honor, and everybody 
from the science foundation was 
there to celebrate it. It’s a great way 
to use her name to continue what 
she wanted to happen, which was to 
get more kids involved in science at 
a young age. ”
In 2010, Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography was chosen to 
operate the ship by the U.S. Navy 
after Congress had approved $89 
million for its construction. The 
vessel is historic because it is the 
first university research vessel to                                                                                                                      
be named after a women within the 
University-National Oceanographic 
Laboratory System, which is the                                                                                                                       
consortium of  U.S. academic 
centers that coordinates ship-based 
field research. 
Tam O’Shaughnessy, co-founder 
and Executive Director of Sally 
Ride Science, was excited about the 
vessel. O’Shaughnessy, who was also 
Ride’s partner, thought naming the 
ship after Ride was very appropriate. 
“I love it. I think it’s very 
appropriate. Half the population are 
women, ”O’Shaughnessy says. “Sally 
would be very honored to have a 
navy research vessel named after 
her. It’s a really big deal. It’s the first 
academic research vessel ever named 
after a women...I think Sally would 
love it because she would love the 
message it sends to the world about 
our values and equities. She would 
love it’s doing research on climate 
change. And she would love that it is 
being operated out of Scripps. ” 
R/V Sally Ride is set to research Isaiah Rashad to Headline 2016 Hullabaloo Lineup
A.S. Concerts and Events announced on Oct. 31 
that Isaiah Rashad will headline UCSD’s sixth 
annual Hullabaloo. Andrew Luce and Tennyson 
will also perform at the festival, which takes place at 
Matthews Quad on Nov. 18 at 8 p.m. 
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Audrey 
Chung explained that she is not especially excited for the 
event because she is unfamiliar with the artists’ works.
“It isn’t that I don’t like their music, ” Chung told the 
UCSD Guardian. “It’s more that I have never heard of any 
of them before so there is less appeal to go. ”
Chung suggested that in order to provide a lineup 
that students know and like, ASCE could use public input 
methods and provide students with music by the artists 
in advance.
“Maybe people can submit recommendations, 
and [ASCE] can have a poll from there, ” Chung said. 
“There can [also] be more publicity for the artists 
beforehand (like the artists’ YouTube videos) on 
various UCSD social media [accounts], so students can check them out right away and be more familiar 
with who they are going to see. ” 
Rashad, born in Chattanooga, T ennessee, is a rapper 
signed to Top Dawg Entertainment — the same label 
that houses Kendrick Lamar, Schoolboy Q and many 
others. His debut extended play “Cilvia Demo, ” which 
contains 14 tracks, was released in 2014 to critical and 
commercial success. In addition to peaking at position 
40 on Billboard’s Top 200, the project was rated 8.2 out of 
10 by Pitchfork Media and four out of five stars by BET , 
Spin, Consequence of Sound, HipHopDX and XXL. One 
of Rashad’s most popular singles, “I Shot Y ou Down, ” was 
released prior to “Cilvia Demo” but has a remix on the EP 
featuring Schoolboy Q and Jay Rock. The track’s music 
video currently has over four million views on Y ouTube.
His follow-up, “The Sun’s Tirade, ” reached an even 
wider audience, debuting at No. 17 on Billboard’s Top 
200. The project, which carries a total of 17 tracks, also 
sustained his critical following as it was rated 8.1 out of 
10 by Pitchfork and over four out of five stars by Spin, B y  Jacky To  &  Lauren Hol t     CAMPUS
Berkeley Greek Councils Lift Ban on Social Events 
The IFC and PHC held a meeting to discuss possible policy changes to prevent sexual assault.See HULLABALOO , page 3
UC SYSTEM
By  M A T T H E W  Z A M U D I O
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
See SALLY RIDE , page 3 See BERKELEY  , page 3
BY   A Y A T  A M I N 
contributing writer
 UCSD’s International House held a Global Forum where faculty and students discussed how gender inequalities affect health.
Photo by Patrick Lazo // UCSD Guardian
ASCE
“2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Oatmeal — it’s like croutons!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
LAUREN HOLT//  NEWS EDITOR
Private Donor Gifts Scripps Institution of  
Oceanography $2.5 Million
UCSD announced on Oct. 31 that Joy Frieman, the 
wife of late Scripps Institution of Oceanography director 
Edward A. Frieman, donated $2.5 million to continue 
her husband’s legacy. Edward Frieman died in April 
2013 at the age of 87 after serving as a government 
advisor on issues regarding science, defense and the 
environment in addition to his work at Scripps.
The donation will finance two fellowships and 
a faculty chair which, Mrs. Frieman told UCSD 
Communications, was the best way to memorialize him. 
“I knew it shouldn’t be a building because that’s 
not what he was about,” Frieman said. “Ed was always 
interested in research and what research money could 
do, and he was one of the very early people to identify 
global warming. ”
$1.5 million of the $2.5 million will be allocated to 
the establishment of the Edward A. Frieman Endowed 
Presidential Chair in Climate Sustainability, and the 
additional $1 million will be evenly divided between 
an endowed postdoctoral fellowship and an endowed 
graduate fellowship at Scripps.
“Mrs. Frieman’s transformative gift to establish an 
endowed faculty chair and two endowed fellowships 
will significantly benefit our research in climate 
sustainability,” Chancellor Pradeep Khosla stated in a 
press release. “Her generous support is invaluable in 
helping UC San Diego and our Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography solve some of our planet’s most pressing 
challenges, and provides a fitting tribute to Ed Frieman. ”
The UC system plans on matching the endowed 
presidential chair fund with $500,000. Scripps hopes 
to find more donors to further finance the three 
endowments.UCSD
GUARDIAN
ELECTION 
NIGHT 2016 :
A POLITICAL PARTYTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH,6:45-9:30 P.M.
Sponsored by the Dept. of Political Science, Associated Students, the Guardian, SOVAC (Student 
Organized Voter Access Committee ), Eleanor Roosevelt College, and International HouseALL ARE WELCOME TO WATCH ELECTION RETURNS ON BIG SCREEN
FREE TICKETS @ ElectionNight2016.eventbrite.comFREE PIZZA!
WIN Election Prediction Contest Prizes
UCSD’S THE GREAT HALL -INT’LHOUSE
like   us  
               on   fb  
@UCSDGUARDIANaccountability was lacking, ” Evans 
told the Daily Californian, referring 
to the outcome of the roundtable 
meeting. “The fact is that sexual 
violence is happening in the Greek 
community. The blame is shifted in 
a lot of places depending on which 
explanation suits your worldview. ” 
Former Co-Chair of the student 
group Greeks Against Sexual Assault Meghan Warner, while 
conceding that the community 
agreements are a “step in the right 
direction, ” is wary of having Greek 
leaders monitor themselves, as 
Saedi supports, zeroing in on a 
history of fraternities making false 
promises: a case in point being the 
hard alcohol ban. 
“The changes sound like they’re 
going to make a difference, ” Warner said. “But I don’t really have faith that 
they’re actually going to enact them. ” 
UC Berkeley Chancellor 
Nicholas Dirks stated that he has 
“great respect for this bold and 
important step undertaken by our 
fraternities and sororities. ”solutions for a range of issues 
from climate change to human 
health to natural disasters. It is the 
quietest ship in the world which 
will allow scientists to conduct 
improved acoustics research. 
Among its research, it will continue 
to participate with the California 
Cooperative Oceanic Fisheries 
Investigations program to create 
predictive models of marine life. Such research will allow California 
to better manage marine life 
resources. 
According to a UCSD press 
release, “a current goal of the 
program is to create forecasts, not 
just of cyclical climate phenomena 
such as El Niño, but of the changes 
in marine life that are associated 
with those phenomena. ”
Scripps has operated more than 
27 oceanographic research ships throughout the past hundred years. 
In total, Scripps has sailed over six 
million nautical miles for the sake 
of science. The R/V Sally Ride will 
be adding to that history. R/V Sally 
Ride will first set sail for research 
in November 4, 2016, and is set to 
explore the Pacific Rim.Consequence of Sound, HipHopDX, 
XXL and AllMusic. The music video 
for Rashad’s single “4r Da Squaw” 
currently has more than five million 
views on Y ouTube.
Tennyson, comprised of teenage 
siblings Luke and Tess Pretty, 
recently played shows at Los 
Angeles’ Greek Theatre and San 
Diego’s Soma, but will head east to 
Detroit, Boston and several other 
major cities before returning to 
Southern California for another LA 
performance and Hullabaloo. Tess 
covers the drums and percussion 
while Luke is responsible for keyboard and production.
ASCE described the pair’s musical 
style in a recent post on the Hullabaloo 
Facebook event page.
“Brother and sister duo Luke & Tess 
blend an eclectic range of sounds from 
a percussive heavy Aphex Twin flow to 
dreamy James Blake-esque influences 
— bringing you that vibrant, electronic 
pop sound that’s sure to light up the 
stage, ” ASCE wrote. 
ASCE also noted that Tennyson has 
previously collaborated with Skrillex, 
a popular electronic music producer, 
and Njomza, a Chicago singer. 
Andrew Luce is another teenage 
performer who began producing 
when he was 13 years old, but started playing the drums at age eight and 
has since learned to play guitar as 
well. Luce initially worked on remixes, 
such as Kid Cudi’s “Day ‘N’ Nite. ” 
However, he has gone on to create 
original tracks, like his collaboration 
with Juelz called “Tremors. ”
Former Hullabaloo headliners 
include fellow rappers Lil Dicky in 
2015, Logic in 2014 and Chance the 
Rapper in 2013. Entry to the festival 
is free for all UCSD undergraduates 
(with a valid student ID). Information 
regarding how to register will be 
coming soon.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ HULLABALOO,  from page 1
▶ SALLY RIDE , from page 1
▶ BERKELEY ,  from page 1Tennyson and Andre w Luce Are Teena gers W ho Produce Electronic Music
R/V Sally Ride Scientists and Crew to Set Sail this Upcoming Friday
War ner: I am Weary that the Changes Will Actually Be Implementedlauren hol t lcholt@ucsd.edu
ayat  a m i n   a6amin@ucsd.edu
ma tthew zamudio   m1zamudi @ucsd.edu
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Music. Spoken word. Rants.... Everything is welcome! Swing by The Loft 
to watch your fellow students perform! Interested in showing off your own 
talent? Check out our Facebook event page at “ASCE Presents: You at the 
Loft" for information on signing up!
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477Monday, Oct. 31
12:16 a.m. Marijuana Contact
Per RSO, subject in possession 
of marijuana and a prescription 
drug. Closed by citation.
2:52 a.m. Citizen Contact:  
Two sleepers inside lounge, 
possibly students. Service 
provided.
3:18 a.m. Fire Alarm:  
Unknown suspect(s) activated 
fire alarm pull station in absence 
of any fire or emergency.  Report 
taken.
8:35 a.m. Non Injury Collision:
UC vehicle vs. privately owned 
vehicle.  Report taken.
10:00 p.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
Annoying/Harassing Phone Call:
Victim received dozens of text 
messages and inappropriate 
pictures from several different 
phone numbers.  Report taken.
11:35 p.m. Excessive Alcohol:
Intoxicated female fell and 
hit her head. Transported to 
hospital.Tuesday, Nov. 1
4:28 a.m. Assist Other Agency:  
San Diego Police on scene with 
driver possibly involved in 
assault with a deadly weapon in 
Mira Mesa.  Referred to other 
agency.
12:43 p.m. Chemical Spill: 
Chemical explosive contained in 
cabinet. Referred to other UCSD 
Department.
3:38 p.m. Armed Suspicious 
Person: 
Older adult male with machete.  
Checks OK/field interview.
6:46 p.m. Disturbance - Domestic 
Violence : 
Closed by citation, adult. 
9:07 p.m. Disturbance - 
Argument:
Reporting party heard loud 
argument between residents of 
unknown apartment. Checks OK.
— MATTHEW ZAMUDIO
Editorial Assistant4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Tina Butoiu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR
Jacky To
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Lauren Holt
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOR
Sam Velasquez
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
EDITOR
Nathan Walker
OPINION EDITORIAL 
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. 1Possible Conditions for MenPossible Conditions for Men3Possible Conditions for MenPossible Conditions for Men 5
Acne
Testicular pain
Mood swings
Myalsia
Depression1Possible Conditions for MenPossible Conditions for Men3Possible Conditions for WomenPossible Conditions for Women 13+
Uterus perforation
Breast irritation
Mood swings
Myalsia
Depression
Acne
Yeast infections
Vaginal-tissue irritation
Weight gain
Headache
Migraines
Nausea & vomiting
Abdominal pain
When news that a study for 
male contraceptives was halted 
earlier this week, it was the 
participants who had dropped out 
of the study due to acne, mood 
swings and pains that took the 
forefront of reproductive health 
dialogue. In the eyes of many, they 
exemplified what happens when 
men are even temporarily forced to 
bear the burden of contraceptives’ 
side effects, which as many as 60 
percent of women face today.
In many respects, this is the 
case: Contraceptives for women 
have equal, if not greater, side 
effects, including additional breast 
irritation, uterus perforation, 
yeast infections and vaginal tissue 
irritation. Even more, the entire 
burden of what happens post-sex 
rests on the shoulders of women. 
What was missed by Cosmo, USA 
Today and other sources centering 
the study’s livelihood on these 
participants is that an independent 
review board — not the 20 drop-
outs — fully necessitated the study’s 
end by citing safety concerns. It’’s 
those concerns that speak the 
loudest about what constitutes an 
“acceptable” side effect for men in 
comparison to women.
Laying down the facts
The board’s reasons for that 
particular decision are unknown, 
though it was reported that the 
study’s 320 participants reported a 
total of 1,491 adverse events, 900 of 
which were cited as being caused 
by the contraceptive. Fifty percent 
of participants reported acne, 38 
percent reported increased sexual drive, 20 percent reported a mood 
disorder, and 15 percent reported 
muscle pain. Alas, 75 percent 
wanted to continue using the drug, 
a combination of injection and 
testosterone.
Side effects, like depression, 
are nothing short of concerning, 
but similar ones failed to prevent 
Liletta, a contraceptive sold to 
women, from being produced. 
Compared to the 2.8-percent 
depression rate in the trial for 
men, the rate for Liletta amounted 
to 5.4 percent. A more structural 
problem with the study is the lack 
of pre-screening for depression. 
Though one participant committed 
suicide, with another attempting, 
the implication of these cases is 
inconclusive due to the lack of pre-
screening. All in all, future studies 
on contraceptive for males need 
not only to be more common but better designed so that missteps 
stop keeping the drug from hitting 
shelves in a less harmful form.
Tracing back 
birth control
Still, even if some side effects 
are comparable between genders 
and, in the eyes of some, necessitate 
a halting of the study, the threshold 
for halting a study when women 
are involved versus when men are 
involved is worth looking into.
Earlier studies in contraceptives 
for women saw far worse side 
effects without halting. As explored 
by Bethy Squires of Broadly, trials 
like “La Operacion, ” conducted 
in Puerto Rico in the ‘50s and 
‘60s — when contraceptives were 
illegal in most U.S. states — 
entailed Puerto Rican women being 
sterilized without their knowledge by researchers looking to create 
a pill that could be sold widely. 
At the study’s end, 17 percent 
of participants had undergone 
stomach pain, headaches and 
vomiting, and three had died. A 
tie to the pill was never established 
because the women’s autopsies 
never happened, but the drug, 
named Envoid, still went on to be 
produced.
These reminders, along with 
the recent data-backed finding that 
teenage girls on the pill are more 
likely to seek antidepressants than 
their counterparts who are not on 
the pill, speak not so much as to 
what men can or cannot handle but 
with what women have been forced 
to handle for decades. 
Broadening the scope
What’s more, the comparative 
amount of irreversible 
contraceptive measures performed 
speak to what reversible 
contraception cannot change 
alone. The vasectomy and the full 
tubal ligation, two permanent 
contraceptive measures available 
to sterilize sperm and egg alike, 
are not drastically different by any 
means in difficulty or cost, but the 
number of men who have had a 
vasectomy is 10 percent lower than 
the amount of women who have 
had a full tubal ligation. Beyond 
the need for ample and better 
studies for the sake of creating 
birth control for men, there 
persists — of course — the ongoing 
view that reproduction is not the 
responsibility of men.Decreased libidoKeeping it Up: 
How the Lack of 
Contracepives for 
Men Persists
These reminders, along with 
the recent data-backed finding 
that teenage girls on the pill 
are more likely to seek use 
antidepressants than their 
counterparts who are not on the 
pill, speak not so much as to 
what men can or cannot handle 
but with what women have been 
forced to handle for decades. 
“
“
“
“Increased sexual driveA recent study of  contraceptives 
on male participants was halted 
when an independent board 
deemed the adverse affects – 
which can be compared to those 
experienced by women in similar 
studies – too harmful to complete 
the trial, raising questions as 
to why similarly harmful side 
effects failed to cease studies of 
contraceptives’ effects on women.
ILLUSTRATION BY QUINN PIEPEROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Contracepives for The overall UCSD voter turnout 
in both the primary and the general 
election was substantially lower in 
2012 than it was in 2008, according 
to the San Diego Registrar of 
Voters. However, turnout in the 
2016 primaries — 51 percent of 
those registered in San Diego — 
was significantly higher than in 
the 2012 primaries, at 37.4 percent, 
though not nearly as high as it 
was in 2008, with 60.7 percent. 
Interestingly, UCSD’s turnout rate 
was higher than San Diego’s, in both 
the primary and general elections, 
across all three years. The polling 
locations where UCSD students 
turn out the most are located in 
the University City area, including 
UCSD. 2008 was definitely a high 
point in terms of voter turnout in 
San Diego for both primary and 
general elections, with 60.7-percent 
turnout in the primary election and 
83.7-percent turnout in the general 
election. Meanwhile, 2012 had 
77-percent turnout in the general 
election and 37.4-percent turnout in 
the primary. 
However, by looking at the 
percentages of those who turned out 
at each individual polling location, 
the numbers sometimes appear 
dismal, with some polling locations 
showing that only 6.4 percent of 
those registered came out to vote or 
mail their ballots in. Nevertheless, 
other polling locations reflect a 
more optimistic view on voter 
turnout, with most polling locations 
in the University City area reflecting 
a higher-than-50-percent turnout 
rate: with one polling location 
having a 68.87 percent turnout rate.
In 2008, San Diego’s turnout 
rate was higher than California’s overall turnout rate by 12.7 
percent. Meanwhile, in 2012, we 
see a similar trend, with the total 
California turnout rate being 55.1 
percent and San Diego’s being 76.98 
percent. We cannot predict the 
turnout rate in the general election, 
but it may very well be higher than 
California’s overall rate as it has 
been in past years. 
While information on specific 
causes of San Diego’s higher turnout 
is unclear, there may be a possible 
explanation for UCSD turnout rates 
remaining consistently higher than 
the overall San Diego trend. Since 
2011, the Student Voter Access 
Committee has committed to 
helping UCSD students register to 
vote. Two political science students, 
Arshya Sharifian and Dean Searcy, 
founded the organization after 
learning that only 6 percent of 
UCSD students were registered to 
vote. In collaboration with professor 
Thad Kousser and the political 
science department, Sharifian 
and Searcy were able to start an 
organization that significantly 
improved UCSD’s position in 
terms of the percentage of students 
registered to vote. 
Prior to the establishment of 
SOV AC, UCSD was eighth in the 
University of California system in 
terms of voter registration; this year, 
UCSD ranks first across the UC 
system. What Sharifian and Searcy 
found is that college students often 
do not re-register to vote when 
they change addresses. Students 
did not have low turnout rates 
because they were apathetic, but 
rather because they often lacked the 
information about re-registering. 
As such, they founded a non-partisan organization aimed at 
reducing the barriers to entry for 
students as they move to UCSD. In 
collaboration with organizations 
including the six college councils, 
the Student Sustainability Coalition, 
UCSD College Democrats and 
UCSD College Republicans, SOV AC 
began spreading awareness about 
the voting process. In addition 
to campaigning across campus, 
SOV AC was able to work with the 
Housing, Dining and Hospitality 
to become a part of freshmen 
and transfer move-in weekend 
on campus, providing students 
with voter applications when they 
receive the keys to their dorms. 
Furthermore, SOV AC tables on 
Library Walk throughout the year, 
as well as at Geisel Library, making 
it convenient for students to register 
to vote.
Voter participation is about 
access, not apathy. Yes, some may 
feel pessimistic about the two-party 
system and who’s on the ballot, 
but at this point it’s really out of 
our control. We have to focus on 
the candidates we have and handle 
the consequences of this election 
when they happen. While voters 
tend to focus on general election 
candidates, it is important to also 
recognize that local elections affect 
our everyday lives more than the 
general election. Indeed, we elect 
the legislative branch — the other 
branch that can keep a check on 
the president we elect. Thus, as 
students at UCSD, it is important to 
take advantage of the resources we 
have in order to inform ourselves 
and affect change, not only in our 
nation, but in our immediate, local 
communities.UCSD Student Voting 
Rates Up from 2008
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKEND
BAD RAP
MIXED MATCHDirected by Salima Koroma
Directed by Jeff Chiba Stearns
Tracking both Asian-American 
rap history and the recent endeavors 
of four budding performers looking 
to break through into an inhospitable 
music world, “Bad Rap” is a slice of 
an otherwise-ignored subculture. 
Dumbfoundead hails from the battle 
world and gains notoriety with a 
Drake-backed event. A younger 
counterpart, Rekstizzy, runs tricks 
around stereotypes, producing a 
flagrantly transgressive video with 
a wink and a nod. Suburbanite 
upcomer Lyricks muses on his 
deeply religious upbringing and 
entry into the Christian rap circuit. 
“My parents definitely wanted me 
to become a doctor or lawyer … 
or a pastor, ” he wryly laments and 
pauses. Then, “My whole [rap] 
career is going to be dedicated to 
God. ” Rounding out the group, 
Awkwafina hits the hipster-rap stop 
sign and runs away with it, releasing 
an album and joining “Girl Code” 
on MTV . First-time director Salima 
Koroma insightfully captures 
their slog against the current of 
bigotry, both within and without 
the industry. 
—   Alicia  Lepler
 A&E Editorial Assistant
BITCOIN HEIST
Directed by Ham Tran
As the world dives increasingly deeper 
into the digital age, criminal organizations 
find new ways to launder money, and thieves 
find new ways to steal it. “Bitcoin Heist, ” 
directed by Ham Tran, tells the story of how a 
group of thieves attempt to steal $7.5 million 
worth of Bitcoin from a wealthy, corrupt 
tech industrialist who calls himself “Ghost. ” 
The film is a flashy, fast-paced take on the 
heist genre in the digital age. The first act of 
“Bitcoin Heist” is spent on team assembly, 
the cornerstone of contemporary heist films. 
This eclectic team is made up of Phuc, a 
shy accountant; Dada, an undercover cop; 
Jack Magique, a charming street magician 
and pickpocket; Vi, a hacker and professional 
League of Legends player, and Luhan and Linh, 
a father-daughter grifter duo. While Dada 
assembles this team in order to find evidence 
and arrest the elusive “Ghost, ” she soon finds 
that there is, indeed, no honor among thieves.
—  Naft ali   Burak ovsky
 A&E Associate EditorDelving into the complex issues of multiracial identity, 
“Mixed Match” explores the struggles of bone marrow 
transplants for mixed-race patients, opening with a simple 
cartoon with a powerful message. Summing up the issues 
of identity, culture and other unique problems faced by 
the “fastest-growing demographic in Canada and the U.S., ” 
the opening cartoon puts viewers in a mindset that frames 
the entire film, highlighting previously unseen issues. The 
documentary highlights the efforts of Mixed Marrow, an 
organization dedicated to finding matches for stem cell 
transplants for mixed-race people, who are often difficult to 
match due to their complex genetic makeup and the small 
pool of possible donors. Though perfect matches are not 
strictly necessary, the difficulty in finding any match is quite 
real. The film explores the stories of those who struggle to 
find matches and new options, such as the donation of cord 
blood and placentas, showcasing the unique experiences of 
multiracial individuals.
—  Chandra  Couzens
 Senior Staff Writer
AFTER THE STORM
Directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda
There is a certain calm that 
suffuses Hirokazu Koreeda’s “ After 
the Storm. ” Koreeda gently eases 
the viewer into the story of Ryota, 
a formerly acclaimed novelist down 
on his luck, and presents a small 
window into his state of quiet 
melancholy. Estranged from his 
ex-wife and son, Ryota works a side 
job for a private detective agency 
and gambles away his earnings. 
Bereft of ambition and hounded 
by an inability to reconcile with his 
past, Ryota struggles to reconnect 
with his family. 
The drama is mellow and subdued, 
each scene settling on the quieter 
parts of life and human emotion. 
Deliberate and contemplative, the film 
lingers on Ryoto’s pensive day-to-day 
movements through existence. So 
when the purported typhoon finally 
comes, there is no tension — only 
tranquility. The storm, having washed 
everything else away, leaves behind 
only warmth and acceptance. Like 
Ryota’s mother tells him near the end, 
“life is simple. ” And perhaps that’s a 
good philosophy to live by.
—  Derek Deng
 Staff Writer
CREEPY
Directed by  Kiyoshi Kurosawa
Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s “Creepy” 
follows burned-out detective Koichi 
Takakura, who’s decided to take a 
new swing at life as a criminology 
professor after moving to the 
countryside. Takakura becomes all too 
suspicious of his neighbors to bask in 
the countryside’s relative calm. Keen 
on nosing around and rebuffed by 
obstinate neighbors, he succumbs to 
his desires and reopens a cold-case file 
to assuage the boredom. Soon on the 
hunt with a colleague for a serial killer 
and the “TRUTH, ” his background as a 
criminal profiler packs his statements 
with big words and a bigger voice.
Sidestepping accusations of a 
formulaic plot with a controlled look 
into dark currents and unseemly 
truths lurking in the corners of 
daily life, “Creepy” is squarely in the 
vein of David Lynch. An unnerving 
performance by Teruyuki Kagawa as 
neighbor Nishino, whose eyebrows 
alone look cartoonishly malevolent, 
manifests the fractured and finicky 
behavior of a man who may vacuum 
seal as a hobby. Isolating yourself 
from neighbors may not be such 
a bad idea. It’s 2016, who talks to 
neighbors anyway?
—  Sam    Velazquez
 A&E Editor
Directed by Benny Chan
The Western genre, by now, has been exhausted to the 
point that everyone knows the formula: A scoundrel realizes 
his inner goodness, via a distressed damsel, and saves the town 
from malicious invaders. Yet the blueprint, however tired, can 
still succeed. While technical prowess, thematic depth and 
creative force can certainly help to elevate any film, the success 
of a Western in today’s cinematic landscape rests primarily 
on two aspects: likeable characters and exciting action. “Call 
of Heroes” excels in both these aspects, presenting both a 
charming scoundrel and neatly choreographed fight scenes. 
Though it doesn’t take place in a “western” setting and it 
features face-kicking rather than gun-slinging, the Cantonese 
film still follows the Western template to a tee and does so in 
a way that will thrill its audience.
—  Jacky  To
 Senior Staff Writer
CALL OF HEROESIllustration by Sam Xu
Illustration by Michi SoraIllustration by Michi Sora
Illustration by Sam Xu
Illustration by April GauIllustration by Irene LuuSAN 
DIEGO 
ASIAN  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careers
ANTI-PORNO
Directed by Sion Sono
Japan is known for its exciting pornographic filmmaking, 
a reputation built on the scintillating soft-core creations 
of the Japanese film studio Nikkatsu, which has created 
countless artistically serious “pink” or “roman” films since 
the 1970s. These roman films, a term borrowed from the 
French and German word for novel, are the focus and 
antithesis of Sion Sono’s latest film. It’s an experimental 
portrait of the new era of two-dimensional glamour, 
the emotional friction produced by attempts of artistic 
expression, media and the mental and moral jiu-jitsu it 
performs, the devastating curse of female beauty and, as 
a matter of course, sex. The film follows Kyoko, portrayed 
by the pixie-like Ami Tomite, an artist and erotic film star 
who is cursed with a strange sexual affliction. There are 
near-constant love scenes and, while often more off-putting 
than arousing, they aim to be just as affecting. If you ache 
for the “Deep Throat” era, when porn was seen in public, in 
theatres, “ Anti-Porno” offers a bitter panacea. 
—  Susie  Da vidson
 Staff Writer
A BRIDE FOR RIP VAN WINKLE
Directed by Shunji Iwai
Shunji Iwai’s cynical love story, “ A Bride for Rip Van 
Winkle, ” is a mixture of manipulative love and internal 
struggle. The film stars Haru Kuroki as protagonist 
Nanami, who is the typical quiet, introverted teacher who 
finds love through online dating. What’s not so typical 
about this movie, however, is the downward spiral of 
infatuation and loss she experiences alongside business 
con artist Mr. Amuro. With events like a staged wedding, a 
mysterious affair and a photo shoot with wedding dresses, 
the film reveals Nanami’s internal struggle between 
finding love and finding herself. Iwai phenomenally 
portrays a twisted and tragic love story that ends with the 
character reaching full inner contentment with her finally 
stable apartment and an online tutoring job better fit for 
her stage-fright personality. Although this film requires 
an investment of nearly three hours, surely through its 
oddity, it’ll keep the audience curious about Nanami’s 
search for love.
—  Melissa  P alafox
 Staff Writer
THE LAST PRINCESS
Directed by  Hur Jin-ho
“The Last Princess, ” directed by Hur Jin-ho, tells the 
little-known, turbulent story of the last imperial princess 
of the Korean empire. A mix of true and fictional 
events, the film takes place during Japan’s colonization 
of Korea and depicts Princess Deok-hye, played by Son 
Ye-Him, as she is forced to leave Korea at the age of 
thirteen in 1925 to live in Japan. Although she is only 
meant to finish her education there, the princess is 
forbidden to return to Korea and ends up in exile for 
38 years. The immense tragedy of Princess Deok-hye’s 
tumultuous life is used to create a visceral, emotionally 
devastating experience, especially towards the end of 
the film when the princess finally returns her beloved 
homeland in 1962. With moving performances and 
even more moving source material, “The Last Princess” 
is a beautiful tribute to a princess buried in history and 
forgotten by her country.
— Ell y sa  lim
 Contributing WriterIllustration by Christina Carlson
Illustration by Irene LuuIllustration by Christina Carlson
For the full list of films and showing times, visit festival.sdaff.org/2016/ 8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
In the midst of this election season, may we all take a moment and appreciate the beauty and class that is First Lady Michelle Obama, the absolute epitome of 
political grace and empowering leadership? And while her reign in the White House is (tragically) coming to a close, her legacy and wisdom will forever remain 
in our hearts. Yet, with this upcoming election day rapidly approaching, Obama still continues to inspire by declaring, “It’s more important than ever that we 
show up to vote, not just this year, but every year and in every election. ” While there is an overall dismal climate surrounding Nov. 8, there is a privilege in what 
we get to do as American citizens in the ability to participate during this political turnaround. So maybe our favored candidate isn’t in the running anymore, 
or maybe the overall trend is that we have exhausted the entirety of this election season by abandoning all social media platforms, political websites and the 
outside world, in general, because we can’t take no mo’. But here’s the kicker — if detachment is our go-to response, we negate the privilege in the vote. We fail 
to realize the significance in this ability to speak out, no matter how big or small we feel our voice to be — it’s the one time in this political madness that what 
we have to say is amplified in even the smallest ways. Regardless of where we stand, let’s just take a moment and ask ourselves, “What would FLOTUS do?” So 
despite this nonsensical season, just please go out there and vote.
It’s that time again — pumpkin spice lattes, Ugg boots, warm fireplaces, 
flannels and Election Day. Maybe the anticipation for this day has been a 
touch too overwhelming, but don’t worry, Lifestyle has a few tips on how 
to mentally prepare yourself before heading to the poll. 
Eat an Americana Breakfast
Just like the important morning before an ACT, SAT, GRE, MCAT 
or any other acronym known to terrify students at the core — moms, 
dads, teachers, Jimmy Dean and test prep booklets all suggest having 
a nutritious breakfast to take on the day. Why should this one be any 
different? Skip the instant oatmeal or bowl of Frosted Flakes because 
it’s a big day, folks. And nothing quite screams “ America” like a stack of 
freedom flapjacks with a side of a Ron Swanson-approved portion of 
bacon. While you’re at it, don’t forget the utmost quintessential cup o’ joe 
to get you through this polling period. Having the ultimate “ American” 
breakfast is a surefire way to remind yourself there are still good things, 
no matter how small, to celebrate about the USA.  
Put On Those Lucky Socks
Lucky socks might have helped you soar through that interview or 
dazzle your S.O. ’s family for the first time, so why not bring them into the 
political realm of civic participation? It’s always comforting to have that 
subtle reminder that even if the going gets tough, at least your toes are 
warm. Bonus points if they are red, white and blue or are elegantly graced 
with a stitched-on bald eagle. 
Educate Y ourself **See Proposition Positions**
Potentially not as exciting as scarfing down a mountain of pancakes, but 
just as — if not more — important than that carbohydrate overload is 
educating yourself on what you’re getting into. Take a minimum of at 
least ten minutes to get a grip on what propositions are being contested 
and what the candidates are representing. Need a quick glance but can’t 
find your mail-in information book? Read on for some Lifestyle insight 
to this public policy web with “Proposition Positions. ”
Power Through Parks and Rec
If anyone can get you to feel like your vote matters, it’s Leslie Knope. 
Twenty percent absurdity, 70 percent relatability and lovability, and 10 
percent miniature horse, “Parks and Recreation” is the perfect series to 
remind you of the importance of civic duty. So ready yourself to walk 
into that polling station or mail in that ballot with some encouraging 
Knope quotes and Swanson wisdom.  
Cry A Little, Or A Lot (If Needed)
Sometimes, the only way to get through anything is some emotional 
catharsis. So if the imminent approach of Nov. 8 is coming too soon for 
comfort, then by all means, grab the Puffs Plus tissue box, and let it out 
— especially if you’re reading the Times news article on the beloved First 
Lady Michelle Obama. #FLOTUSForever WHAT WOULD FLOTUS DO?
PRE-POLL... PROPOSITION POSITIONS
BY JOCELYN YANG // LIFESTYLE CONTRIBUTING WRITIER BY BRITTNEY LU // LIFESTYLE EDITOR
You probably don’t want any more scantrons to fill out in the midst of midterms. Neither do I. 
But the fact of the matter is, neither of us are studying right now, so let’s make the best use of 
the next five minutes knocking out one more test prep for Nov. 8. 
Written by students — who referenced other students — for students, this non-conclusive and 
extremely informal Cliffs Notes compiled by yours truly will give you a condensed peek at 
what’s coming up. Everything here is hyper-simplified, so please read more at ballot.fyi. 
Prop. 51 Schools
YES: $9 billion in bonds to the improvement and construction of schools
NO: $9 billion in bonds doesn’t go to the improvement and construction of schools  
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Meh, not interested in interest. Not fond of bonds.
Prop. 52 Hospitals
YES: The money from hospital fees keeps going to Medi-Cal and back to hospitals
NO: The fate of hospital fees may not end up going to Medi-Cal or back to hospitals
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Hospital fees don’t grow on trees.
Prop. 53 Voter Approval
YES: Big bond money projects need your A-OK before starting
NO: Big bond money projects don’t need your A-OK before starting
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Since middle school, campus construction projects already took forever to 
finish. Asking for everybody’s A-OK before starting seems like it’ll delay that new swimming 
pool or parking lot until I have my own kids. 
Prop. 54 Bills
YES: Bills will be published and accessible online for three days before passing
NO: No bills are published nor accessible online before passing
Jocelyn’s Inclination: I like the idea of giving the government its own turnitin.com.
Prop. 55 Income Tax
YES: Income and sales tax for $250k+ earners stay as they are for school and healthcare funds
NO: Income and sales tax for $250k+ earners go back down to where they were
Jocelyn’s Inclination: I am student who goes to a school, needs healthcare, and gets paid close 
to minimum wage. I think that says enough. 
Prop. 56 Tobacco Tax
YES: A few extra Washingtons for a pack of cigs and other tobacco products
NO: No extra Washingtons for a pack of cigs and other tobacco products
Jocelyn’s Inclination: It’ll be a bit more of a burden to let everyone know that you vape, but it’ll 
be for a good cause. Read up on where your vape tax goes at ballot.fyi.
Prop. 57 Parole for Nonviolent Criminals
YES: Nonviolent “bad guys” get extra credit opportunities to be “good guys” again; judges get 
to decide whether kids get tried as adults in court
NO: No extra credit for early let-outs; prosecutors make the decision of whether kids gets tried 
as adults in court
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Extra credit is what bumped me up from a B to an A- a few years back. 
Prop. 58 Language
YES: Schools get to teach students in languages beyond English
NO: Schools are limited to teaching students only in English
Jocelyn’s Inclination: I hit up my buddy Simon about this proposition the other day. He said, 
“It’s a yes from me.”
Prop. 59 Citizens United
YES: Tell the California government that you don’t like how corporations have unlimited 
spending limits
NO: Tell the California government that you don’t really care
Jocelyn’s Inclination: If I have not only limited spending from my parents but also limited data 
from my phone carrier, then corporations should at least have limited spending, too!
Prop. 60 Porn
YES: Condoms on. 
NO: Condoms off.  
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Hmm...
Illustration by Tina Chen THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgdProp. 61 Prescription Drug Prices
YES: Prices decrease
NO: Prices stay the same — high
Jocelyn’s Inclination: There’s more to this than written above, 
but it would be nice not having to choose between prescription 
drugs and a hot meal. 
Prop. 62 Death Penalty (see 66)
YES: Death to the death penalty
NO: Long live the death penalty
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Keep the death penalty alive? Over my 
dead body.
Prop. 63 Guns
YES: Pass a background check and pay for a permit to buy 
ammunition; trash all high-capacity magazines
NO: No background checks needed to buy ammunition; keep 
high-capacity magazines
Jocelyn’s Inclination: The closest I ever get to firearms is when 
I sit adjacent to the driver. If it’s already scary calling shotgun, I 
don’t know how I feel about high-capacity magazines. 
PROP 64 Marijuana
YES: Legalize both recreational sale and use
NO: Restricted to medical use
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Is my mom going to see this? Anyway, on 
a completely unrelated note, check out D.R.A.M.’s new hit with 
Lil Yachty. It’s catchy. 
Prop. 65 Plastic Bags 1 (check 67 first)
YES: The dime gets sent to the state’s piggy bank to fund 
Wildlife Conservation Fund Initiative
NO: The dime stays with the grocery store
Jocelyn’s Inclination: I don’t mind letting them keep the dime, 
but stop forgetting to bring your own bags when you go to 
Ralph’s!
Prop. 66 Death Penalty (see 62)
YES: Speed up death penalty process; set deadlines 
NO: Keep the current speed of one process per decade 
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Yikes, maybe it wasn’t a good time to use 
the word “deadlines.” Consult your nearest social advocate for 
this one.  
Prop. 67 Plastic Bags 2 (check 65)
YES: No single-use bags; costs you a dime for each reusable 
bag
NO: Bring back the plastic bags
Jocelyn’s Inclination: Sorry Katy Perry.
It’s a lot to digest, but hey, don’t sweat it. As long as you show 
up, you’ll do great. Besides, you’re allowed as many cheat 
sheets as you want. Easier than iClicker points.
References: ballot.fyi ; ballotpedia.org; and my friend’s 
(Elizabeth Cao) google doc at https://docs.google.com/
document/d/1qeMkO-VlO6ESO6AujMvt2EnEl0mD3o5vthkHS
W3oftM/edit ; also you might want to fact-check all this?...POST POLL
BY TARA NEJAD // LIFESTYLE STAFF 
WRITER
Feeling discouraged about this year’s presidential election? Here’s the solution — reward yourself for 
fulfilling the civic duty that we are so blessed to have here in this country . 
Watch “America’s Got Talent” Audition Reruns. 
Remind yourself of the good, the bad and the ugly that is considered “talent” in the
United States. 
Read some Upworthy articles, to remind yourself that there is still some good left in the world. 
Whether it's about a little girl befriending an elderly man or an unexpected love story, these articles are 
sure to bring a smile to your face. 
Watch President Obama read mean tweets about himself. 
Because what better way to generate some post-ballot giggles than listening to Obama read mean 
tweets about himself? Honor the man who has been holding office for eight years by laughing with him 
on a day that will change this country’s course of history. 
Rewatch the Canadian campaign to “Tell America It’s Great.”
And while you’re at it, skim through the #tellamericaitsgreat hashtag on Twitter for even more 
reminders from our friendly neighbors that the U.S. is already great, and you made the right decision 
when voting. 
Treat yourself to a hearty post-vote American meal.  
But what does America mean to you? The beauty of this country is its diversity — have some Mexican 
food, or Italian classics or maybe even some Mediterranean pita. Enjoy the diversity and freedom that 
this country offers — at least for now!
Unplug from social media. 
You’ve had it. Your timelines have been crowded with campaign jargon for too long! Give yourself a 
much-needed break, and try not to think about the election!  Illustration by Tina Chen
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
BIKES
My Precor Commercial Recumbent Bike for 
Your Elliptical - Looking to trade my precor 
C846 commercial recumbent bike for a 
heavy duty elliptical machine. Please don’t 
offer light duty elliptical machines. This 
recumbent bike was used in a small gym 
with regular maintenance and is in attrac -
tive condition. New battery less than a year 
ago. Listing ID: 318955237 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Modified Pocket Bike. x7 Model Fast! (San 
diego) - Nice x7 49cc pocket bike gets up 
to about 45 almost 50. Has brand new seat 
headlight air filter boost bottle velocity 
stack and a new nitrous kit. Needs a good 
carb cleaning from sitting for a month or 
so asking $250 cash.show contact details. 
Listing ID: 318955236 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Huffy Bike/Will Sell Fast/ No Flats ($80) - 
$80. Selling my wife’s bike. Hardly ridden it. 
Everything works great on this bike. Garage 
kept. If u are looking for a bike for the sum -
mer. This is it. Also this bike is small so if 
you are a small person, this is for you. Show 
contact information Listing ID: 318955234 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
TEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
La Jolla  
Dental Group  
is looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one 
male and one female. 
 If interested, please 
email resume to office@
lajolladentalgroup.comCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
SOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that enables professors 
to disseminate various course mate rials 
to their students.  These include 
course reader s, lab manuals, class 
notes, sample exam s, homework 
solutions, etc. 
858-534-6256
assoftreserv es@ucsd.eduONLINE SERVICFINAL QUARTER =(
E!
Pre-order your reader online at:
and pick it up at the Student Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATIONMon-Thur: 9am-5pm
Fri: 9am-4pm
Sat, 9/24 and Sat, 10/1
Open 10am-2pm
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSThe women and men’s cross 
country teams are traveling to 
Billings, Montana this weekend 
to compete at the NCAA West 
Regionals meet. The Tritons will 
be coming off of a two-week break 
after competing in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
Championships in Ontario, CA on 
Oct. 22, where the men and women 
placed third and fourth, respectively.    
Currently, the men’s team sits in 
11th in the Division-II NCAA 
rankings, while the women’s team 
is unranked. Colorado School of 
Mines and Adams State University 
are the No. 1 teams for the men and 
women, respectively. 
At the CCAA Championships, 
four Tritons — seniors Tareq Alwafai 
and Brendan Gee and sophomores 
Aren Johnson and Karina Carstens 
— earned All-Conference honors by 
finishing in the top 15 in their races. 
Alwafai finished the eight-kilometer 
race in third place, the best finish 
from the Triton men’s team in this 
race since 1999. Gee and Johnson 
finished the tight race in eighth and 
13th, respectively. This was also the 
most All-Conference finishes for 
the Triton men since 2005. 
On the women’s side, Carstens 
narrowly nudged her way into the 
top 15, finishing the six-kilometer 
course in 15th place. Junior 
Kristin Semancsin barely missed 
earning All-Conference honors, 
as she finished in 16th, just 2.1 
seconds behind her teammate. At 
last year’s CCAA Championships 
race, Carstens also earned All-Conference honors. 
“From very early on in the 
season this team has come together 
as a unit really well which has 
allowed them to push each other to 
great levels of success, ” Head Coach 
Nate Garcia explained to the UCSD 
Guardian. “Both teams have been 
very focused and have benefited 
from really strong leadership from 
their upperclassmen and captains. ”
At last year’s NCAA West 
Regionals meet, the men finished 
in 13th place and the women in 7th. The top-five teams earn a spot at the 
NCAA Championships. 
“Each year our squads take on 
slightly different personalities based 
on the student-athletes we have on 
the team, ” Garcia continued. “While 
this year is a little different than 
past seasons, there is definitely a 
through-line that you can see 
between this team and our successful 
squads from years past. ”
Though this year’s squad might 
have a different personality, it is on 
par with the talent and determination of past seasons. This year, the men’s 
team has proven to be a contender 
for the NCAA Championships 
meet. Their teamwork — proven by 
the small time and place separation 
among the athletes in their past 
races — as well as their tenacity and 
experience can get them there. For 
the women, if all goes well, Carstens 
will continue to dominate and lead 
the team and hopefully contend 
with last year’s finish. 
“We are looking forward to 
the meet this weekend,” Garcia said. “Our goal is to qualify both 
teams on to the NCAA National 
Championships, but we recognize 
how deep the field is at this meet, 
so we will have our work cut out 
for us. ”
The Tritons will compete in 
Billings this Saturday, Nov. 5 at 9 
a.m. and will look to earn a spot at 
the NCAA Championships in St. 
Leo, Florida on Nov. 19. Tritons Look Forward to NCAA West Regionals in Montana This Saturday
Coming off of a two-week break, the men and women’s cross country teams will compete to earn a spot at the NCAA Championships.CROSS COUNTR Y
BY  R o s i n a  G a r c i a
Sports editor
Rosina  Garcia    rmg008@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
On Saturday, the UCSD swim 
and dive teams competed within the 
familiar confines of the Canyonview 
Aquatic Center for the first time 
this season. The onset of a new 
season always comes with some 
amount of uncertainty, no matter 
what statistics of years past may say. 
But against the visiting Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps, the men and 
women’s teams proved there is no 
reason to fear the unknown, as they 
earned overwhelming victories of 
169–111 and 200–92, respectively.
As indicated by the score, the 
women’s team really had no issue 
winning the event. With UCSD 
swimmers placing first in all 16 
of the women’s events, the Tritons 
performed as if they were truly 
creatures of the sea. Highlighting 
these victories was freshman 
Casey Brotherton, who placed first 
in both the 500- and 1000-yard 
freestyle events and winning each 
of them by at least five seconds. 
Similarly impressive was senior 
Natalie Tang: She topped both the 
50-yard freestyle and the 100-yard 
backstroke and also helped junior 
Anjie Phetbenjakul, freshman 
Elizabeth Wong and junior Haley 
Murphy take first in the 200-yard 
medley relay. 
With the outstanding victory, the 
No. 3 women’s team improved to 
2–1 on the season.
While the men’s team did not 
win by quite as much, the Triton 
men crushed nearly every event of 
the afternoon. Senior Michael Cohn 
was particularly exceptional this 
afternoon, placing first in both the 
100- and 200-yard back events and 
the 500-yard free. Freshman Tin 
Huyn snagged first in the 50-yard 
free with a time of 21.60, just barely 
ahead of fellow Triton junior Justin 
Lee with 21.65 seconds. Lee instead 
finished on top in the 100-yard free, 
beating Huynh by just a fraction of 
a second. However, the Tritons fell 
short in one event — the one-meter 
dive. Even though Trevor Jackson 
placed second in the event with 
237.27 points, he continued on for 
redemption in the three-meter dive, 
taking first with a score of 197.50.
“This is definitely the strongest 
team we’ve had so far, ” Cohn told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“This is one of the fastest dual meets 
I’ve ever seen, and it’s our first one. ”
Winning its first competition of 
the season, the No. 9 men’s team 
is now a perfect 1–0. Next up, 
the teams will travel to UC Santa 
Barbara on Saturday, Nov. 5.
Tritons Make 
a Splash 
Against 
CompetitionSWIM AND DIVE
The Triton women easily 
dominated the pool, winning 
all 16 events, while the men 
equally performed well against 
their competition.
Alex Wu    adw006@ucsd.eduby Alex Wu // Associate Sports Editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Water Polo
M. Basketball
M. Soccer
W. Basketball
W. Soccer11/3
11/3
11/4
11/4
11/46 PM
7 PM
1:30 PM
6 PM
7 PMAT Santa Clara
AT San Diego State
AT Turlock
AT Stanford
AT Turlock