VOLUME 49, ISSUE 34   THURSDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 18, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
2016 OCSAR 
NOMINATIONS
LEO SURVIVED THE WILD; 
WILL HE SURVIVE THE OSCARS? 
THE GUARDIAN A&E STAFF 
PICKS AND PREDICTS WHO 
WILL TAKE HOME THE COVETED 
GOLDEN STATUETTES AT THIS 
YEAR’S ACADEMY AWARDS.
APPOINTING   CHANGE
SWIM AND DIVENEW  SUPREME  COUR T  JUSTICE
ncaA   division II   Qualifica tionsOPINION,   P AGE 4
Sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 66 L 51FRIDAY
H 65 L 49
SATURDAY
H 67 L 50SUNDAY
H 72 L 53
FORECAST
VERBATIM
MORE EDUCATION IN THE 
HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL 
SCIENCES — WHICH 
ENCOURAGES CRITICAL 
THINKING AND QUESTIONING 
OF KNOWLEDGE AND 
AUTHORITY — COULD 
IMMUNIZE ENGINEERS 
AGAINST VIOLENT EXTREMISM . 
- BRANDON REYNANTE
HAND & HEART
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
PEDESTRIAN ALGORITHM 2
SAN DIEGO BEER  ........... 4
TRITON TO WATCH  .......... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 12“Weekend,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF  20TH CENTURY FOX
The University of California’s 
Academic Senate sent a letter to 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
rejecting her proposal to restructure 
retirement benefits last Friday. The 
proposal aims to generate savings 
while also maintaining current 
compensation levels; opponents 
are concerned with how the plan 
could reduce the university’s ability 
to attract and retain quality faculty 
and staff.
There are two issues in 
contention. First is the adoption of 
the the California Public Employees’ 
Pension Reform Act cap, which 
would cap faculty salaries at a 
maximum of $117,000. According 
to the letter, the cap was adopted 
with little input from those it would 
affect most. “[T]he adoption of the PERPA 
cap is a fait accompli, leaving [the 
divisions and committees of the 
Retirement Options Task Force] 
with no option but to analyze the 
options in the context of which 
might be least harmful to the 
University, ” according to the letter 
addressed to Napolitano. 
The second is the creation of 
a separate retirement tier for all  
university employees hired on or 
after July 1, 2016. 
Professor Emeritus Henry 
Powell, current President of the 
UCSD Emeriti Association and the 
Emeriti Association’s representative 
to the Academic Senate, explained 
how the difference between the 
existing two tiers and the newest 
proposed tier of the UC Retirement 
Plan benefits has caused concern 
over how it will affect faculty and 
the future of the university itself. “The problem that my colleagues 
and I foresee is that with a weaker, 
less valuable retirement plan, 
[the University of California] 
will find it harder to hold onto 
valuable faculty who get offers 
from other institutions, ” Powell told 
the UCSD Guardian. “There is a 
morale problem when you establish 
different levels of benefits. New 
people have to work just as hard as 
the more senior people with better 
benefits. ” 
The restructuring of the 
retirement plan is driven by 
three goals: to preserve faculty 
compensation, to continue to pay 
off the Unfunded Actuarial Accrued 
Liability to keep the pension system 
thriving and to generate savings. 
According to the Retirement 
Options Task Force, meeting all Students Sell 
Used Items 
at Thrifty 
TuesdayUCSD
The quarterly event held 
on Library Walk was 
hosted by the A.S. Office of 
Environmental Justice Affairs.
BY   m a r i a    s e b as
Senior staff writer
Student vendors lined Library 
Walk to sell used and artisan items 
on Tuesday as part of the A.S. Office 
of Environmental Justice’s quarterly 
Thrifty Thursday event.
A.S. V.P. of Environmental 
Justice Affairs Moon Pankam told 
the UCSD Guardian that her office 
promotes the event to encourage the 
culture of sustainability on campus.
“The goal of Thrifty Thursday is 
really to get students to be aware of 
the effects that their purchases have 
on not only the environment but 
also the people who produce these 
items, ” Pankam said.
Pankam told the Guardian that 
the event is also aimed at creating 
more awareness of the impacts of 
fast fashion.
“Fast fashion is one of those 
industries that produces a lot of 
waste in addition to numerous 
human-rights violations that happen 
within those facilities and factories, ” 
Pankam said.
Pankam also noted that while the 
event is titled Thrifty Thursday, it’s 
not always held on a Thursday due 
to logistical issues.
Many of the student vendors 
sold handcrafted items, including 
small bags and accessories. Warren 
College senior Noble Dwarika, 
who makes his pieces out of used 
fabrics, told the Guardian that 
buying handmade clothing and 
accessories is a good way to support 
small businesses and facilitate the 
recycling of material.
“ All of the materials that I get are 
recycled, so it’s very eco-friendly, ” 
Dwarika said. “I recycle my old 
clothes, my friends’ clothes and 
items from the thrift store. ”
In addition to clothes and 
accessories, students from Groundwork 
Books and Books for Prisoners offered 
used books for purchase.
Marshall College junior 
Aditi Guatam, who volunteers 
at Groundwork Books, told the 
Guardian that the bookstore gives 
UCSD students the opportunity to 
purchase books from a student-run, 
nonprofit source and provides them 
with a selection of books that they will 
not find anywhere else on campus.
“The reason that we work hard to 
keep the store open is to give students 
access to these books, ” Guatam said. 
“We have books on feminist theory, 
anarchism and Marxism. ”
Muir Senior Fabiola Orozco, 
another volunteer at Groundwork Union Negotiates Raise for 
University Lecturers
The University Council of the American 
Federation of Teachers and the UC campuses 
reached a tentative agreement on Feb. 6 that, 
once ratified, will provide annual salary increases, 
among other benefits, to more than 3,000 UC 
lecturers.
The four-year agreement includes a 6.2 percent 
increase in salary over the next six months and 2.5 
percent increases in July of 2017 and 2018, while 
providing new protections for lecturers during their 
first six years and faculty who are teaching online 
courses. The arrangement also introduces improved 
retirement benefits for those who work less than 
50 percent of the time, a new mentoring process 
and clearer guidelines for getting and keeping their 
appointments.
UC-AFT Chief Negotiator Benjamin Harder told the UCSD Guardian that UC-AFT and the 
UC campuses, after bargaining for nearly a year, 
were able to acquire additional pensions for those 
restricted from social security.
“We have been bargaining since March of 2015 and 
hoped to ensure that all lecturers at [the University of 
California] would participate in retirement programs 
that include money from the employer, ” Harder 
said. “ As it is, lecturers who work less than half-time 
are not even eligible to have their wages count for 
social security and we were able to settle for special 
payments to some lecturers who are barred from 
social security. ”
It is only after a lecturer’s sixth year of appointment 
that they receive an excellence review to determine 
continued employment. However, the L.A. Times 
reported that UCLA and UCSD have a higher B y   ming-ra y   liao      staff writerCAMPUS
UC SYSTEM
Academic Senate Rejects Retirement Proposal
Critics of the plan cited a lack of faculty input during the university’s drafting process.See LECTURERS , page 3
SAN DIEGO
BY   r e b e c ca   c h o n g
Contributing writer
See THRIFTY , page 3 See RETIREMENT , page 2
Student volunteers from the on-campus bookstore Groundwork Books participated in this week’s Thrifty Tuesday. 
Photo by Duyen Nguyen /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded 
by advertising. I really want to but I’m hesitant about [my 
homosexuality]. To me, it’s just a neighborhood.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Agnus Song
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Christian Duarte, 
Quinn Pieper, Sam VelazquezAfter almost a decade of work, 
researchers at UCSD created an 
algorithm that can detect pedestrians 
in near real-time. The algorithm is able 
to capture images at a rate of about two 
to four frames per second and achieves 
a higher level of accuracy than any 
existing algorithms. 
UCSD professor and lead 
researcher Nuno Vasconcelos told 
the UCSD Guardian that his goal is 
to create an algorithm that allows 
computers to process scenes as well as 
humans. 
“Currently, the solution only 
applies to the detection of  a single 
class of objects, like pedestrians, ” 
Vasconcelos said. “We are working 
on extensions that will detect multiple object-classes (say pedestrians and 
vehicles) simultaneously. ”
According to a Feb. 8 press release, 
the algorithm achieves its speed and 
accuracy by breaking up the object 
detection process into several stages, 
where each stage simplifies the image. 
The first few steps remove parts of the 
image that obviously do not contain 
people, such as the sky. In each 
subsequent step, the computer studies 
the remaining picture more closely 
and removes some of the objects that 
do may resemble people, but are not 
pedestrians, such as trees, until only 
pedestrians remain. This method 
of object detection is called cascade 
classification.
V asconcelos and his colleagues 
created many versions of the cascaded 
classifiers algorithm before reaching 
the current design, which is faster and more accurate than its predecessors. 
“The research on cascaded 
classifiers started around 2008 [when] 
deep learning was not around, but the 
project allowed us to learn to design 
these cascaded classifiers, ” V asconcelos 
explained. “The main difficulty 
[is finding] the optimal cascade 
configuration, which we addressed by 
designing this new cascade learning 
algorithm [using deep learning]. ”
The speed and accuracy of the 
new algorithm makes it great for use 
in cars to identify pedestrians and 
other objects. Zhaowei Cai, a Ph.D 
student who has been working with 
V asconcelos on this project since 2014, 
explained that while the algorithm is 
not ideal for self-driving cars, it can still 
be used to assist drivers with parking 
and braking.
“We work with some companies [that] want to build the detector into 
cars, maybe just to assist the driving, 
not just for self-driving, ” Cai told the 
Guardian. “It can help to detect people 
or objects nearby. ”
Although the research is currently 
being used in cars, Vasconcelos 
added that the technology can also 
be applied to other areas, such as 
medicine and retail.
“Object detection and recognition 
are central problems in computer 
vision, ” Vasconcelos explained. “The 
technology could, for example, be 
used to detect tumors or lesions 
in medical images, products in 
product catalogues, or most other 
applications that involve image or 
video understanding. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists Develop Algorithm to Better Detect Pedestrians
The research is aimed at improving both the speed and accuracy of recognition software for self-driving vehicles.
BY   P R O M I T A  N A N DY
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
PROMIT A NAND Y   PNANDY@ucsd.edureaders can contact
UCOP Will Consider Suggestions for Improving Plan Before Submitting to UC Regents
three of these requirements with the 
same plan is impossible. 
“Only the second goal likely 
will be achieved … The other two 
goals are clearly inconsistent; the 
first cannot be met through the 
recommendations in the report, 
and the third is possible only if we 
understand savings to be logically 
equivalent to benefits cuts,” the 
ROTF reported in the letter. “There are no inefficiencies to be exploited 
in the current plan that would create 
savings. ”
UC Office of the President 
Media Specialist Rebecca Trounson 
elaborated on how the plan will 
take into account the previous year’s 
budget agreement to maintain a 
balanced budget for the UC pension 
system.
“ As part of [last year’s budget] 
agreement [with state leaders], the 
university agreed that the amount of income that would be used to 
calculate the pension benefits of 
future employees would be the same 
as it is for state workers, ” Trounson 
said. “The new retirement options 
will help ensure the continued 
financial health of [University 
of California]’s pension and the 
university’s ability to provide 
retirement benefits for future 
employees. ” 
Trounson reiterated that 
suggestions for improving and changing the plan will be taken into 
account up until Napolitano submits 
the final document to the UC Board 
of Regents in March. Trounson 
also emphasized the importance of 
keeping the UC system’s standards 
high by maintaining competitive 
rates of compensation for faculty 
and staff as a key priority. ▶ RETIREMENT,  from page 1
rebecca chong   rcchong@ucsd.edureaders can contactNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2016-17
MARCH 2, 2016Priority Deadline for  filing the
FAFSA or CAL Dream Act Applic ation is:
www.fafsa.g ovUse UCSD school code 001317. .
Use UCSD school code 00131700. www.CalDreamA ct.org
If you need assistance, please co ntact the Financial Aid  Office a t (858) 534-4480.If you have not yet completed your 2015 tax return, estimate the amounts and then update your 
via www.fafsa.gov.  California Dream Act Application can update your estimates at 
www.CalDreamAct.org.
   Students who are U.S. Citizens or  Permane nt Residen ts
can submi t the FAFSA online  at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible  and who are not eligible  to submit  a FAFSA,
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:ORTEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSunday, February 21   • 10am-2:30pm
Green Table Room • Price Center West, Level 2Pankam Invites All Student Organizations to Participate in the Event
Books, added that the store is also 
a place where students can meet to 
discuss these issues.
“Our unofficial motto for 
Groundwork is ‘Educate, Agitate, 
Organize’ ,” Orozco said. “Our 
purpose is not just to provide books 
and literature to people but it’s also 
to discuss the issues that we’re facing 
today in society and organize to do 
something about it. ”
Both Guatam and Orozco have 
put this motto into action by getting 
involved in Books For Prisoners, a nonprofit that sends books to 
prisoners who request them.
“This program can only run 
through a bookstore so it runs 
through Groundwork,” Guatam 
explained. “We are on Library 
[Walk] this entire week trying to get 
people to donate books so we can 
use them to send to prisoners. ”
UCSD forced Books for 
Prisoners out of its office space two 
years ago, after which the group 
could no longer operate and took 
students until last quarter to revive 
the initiative.
Regarding the presence of Groundwork Books and Books 
for Prisoners at Thrifty Tuesday, 
Pankam expressed support for the 
participation of additional student 
organizations.
“To have it be an event where we 
just sell clothing and handcrafted 
pieces would take away from the 
spirit of the A.S. EJA office, which 
is to advocate social issues and how 
they relate issues of environmental 
stewardship and sustainability.” 
Pankam said.
Labor Group to Investigate UCSD’s High Faculty Turnover Rate
turnover of lecturers compared to 
the other campuses. President of the 
UC-AFT Robert Samuels thinks that 
this is because the campuses do not 
want to hire lecturers for an extended 
period of time.
“UCSD has employed many 
lecturers, but very few get to their 
sixth year where they gain job 
security, ” Samuels told the Guardian. 
“We believe UCSD does not want 
to give many lecturers continuing 
appointments so they only keep them 
for a few years. Some departments 
also do not want to spend the time 
reviewing lecturers, so they never 
review them. ”
Harder postulates that the 
higher turnover may be because 
hiring untenured lecturers is more 
economical and that both UC-AFT 
and UCOP are investigating this issue.
“Some administrators may prefer 
to appoint less experienced short-time 
teachers, who have little connection to the campus, because such instructors 
are less expensive, ” Harder said. “We 
aren’t sure what is going on, but along 
with the campus and [UCOP], we are 
forming a working group to take a 
look at UCSD’s hiring practices. ”
Along with the investigative 
group, the contract included a clause 
requiring a mentoring meeting for 
lecturers during their third year of 
appointment that determines a 
lecturer’s competence. UC-AFT San 
Diego President Stephen Potts believes 
that this would force the university to 
assess a faculty member’s skill prior to 
dismissing them.
“People have been getting up to 
the fourth and fifth year and suddenly 
told they’re not going to be rehired 
with no reasons given, ” Potts said. 
“The mentoring is something that 
was actually a compromise, put there 
in place of a third-year review, and it 
forces the department to have some 
sort of record of the lecturers’ abilities 
before they get to that fourth or fifth 
year where many of them are let go. ”Potts explained that the contract 
will be beneficial for both the 
university and the lecturers.
“There are advantages for both 
sides in having a labor contract, ” 
Potts said. “From the university’s 
standpoint, it’s good to have labor 
peace and a dependable workforce, 
and the lecturers get some sort of 
stability. ”
Potts added that the contract 
will not be debated upon until the 
agreement expires and that the 
UC-AFT will continue supporting 
the workers that they represent.
“In the end, the UC-AFT didn’t 
get everything it wanted and I’m sure 
the university was forced to accept 
things they would rather not have 
accepted, ” Potts said. “Fortunately for 
both sides, the contract isn’t going to 
be negotiated again in another three 
or four years, which is generally when 
bargaining takes place. ”▶ THRIFTY ,  from page 1
▶ LECTURERS,  from page 1Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgMARIA SEBAS   msebas@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Ming-ra y liao   m4liao@ucsd.edureaders can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
OPEn   COURT
For residents of a major American 
beer city, it’s as distressing to think of 
San Diego without authentic craft beer 
as it is for a Frenchman to imagine 
a Champagne province without its 
world-famous sparkling white wine. 
But the threat is real, as breweries 
across Southern California have been 
selling out to “Big Beer” corporations 
that are guided by the principle 
“devour and conquer. ” The corporate 
takeover will not only change the way 
craft beer is produced, but will also 
endanger the socially responsible, 
competitive environment shared by 
small city breweries, capitalizing on 
what has been known as a symbol 
of modern San Diego. In addition, 
turning San Diego beer-makers into 
a part of the corporate machine 
will negatively reflect on our city’s 
communities that are supported by 
local breweries through charities. 
That is why local breweries and beer 
lovers should unite — not merge — 
to oppose multinational companies 
thirsty for liquid gold.
Being on the cutting edge of 
the American avant-garde beer 
movement that started in 1980s, San 
Diego became a major producer of 
this hoppy beverage and established 
itself as the craft beer capital of 
America. Small, yet self-sufficient, 
craft breweries have been sprouting 
in San Diego like mushrooms after 
a summer rain. After getting wind 
of the popularity of local crafts, “Big Beer” companies that, according to 
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research 
estimates, control 47 percent of global 
volumes (2014) have set the goal to 
buy craft-producing competitors. 
When the most popular San Diego 
brewery, Ballast Point, was sold for 
$1 billion to Constellation Brands 
— an alcoholic drinks conglomerate 
that owns Corona, Modelo Especial 
and Negra Modelo — other brewery 
owners expressed their concern with 
potential craft sell-out. For instance, 
Greg Koch, the CEO and co-founder 
of Stone Brewing wrote an article for 
The San Diego Union-Tribune stating 
that the ninth largest craft brewery in 
the United States is not for sale.
By buying local breweries, 
corporations inevitably endanger craft 
culture. According to the definition of 
Brewers Association, craft breweries 
have to be small, independent and 
traditional, which guarantees that 
producers pay special attention to the 
quality of their brews. Despite the fact 
that corporations claim to maintain 
acquired brands’ business operations, 
it is simply impossible for ex-craft 
breweries to preserve their original 
values and practices while catering to 
a larger consumer audience. Increases 
in production and corporate control 
forces breweries to not only change 
the way the beer is produced, but 
also to reconsider corporate culture 
and marketing strategies that affect 
employees and consumers of San Diego. By including once-craft into 
mainstream corporate segment, “Big 
Beer” deprives independent local craft 
producers of competitive advantage. 
San Diego craft breweries play 
an important role in the community, 
which might be overseen by “Big 
Beer” companies that are unaware 
of local initiatives. Beer brewing 
companies such as Stone Brewing 
and Green Flash are known for 
being socially responsible and 
contributing to various local non-
profit organizations, including Boys 
& Girls Club of San Marcos, Fight 
ALD! and The Surfrider Foundation. 
If these breweries sell out, there is 
no guarantee that such fundraising 
activities will be maintained. Handing 
over San Diego breweries to corporate 
giants can have a negative effect on 
the local community as a whole.
For San Diego, breweries are not 
just companies — they are makers of 
a product that all San Diegans take 
pride in and see as a symbol of their 
city. Visiting breweries is a major 
tradition among locals and tourists, 
while beer tasting is seen as truly 
ceremonial. Therefore, by taking 
“local” out of San Diego breweries, 
big corporations are stealing from 
the region a culture that has been 
developing since the opening of the 
first brewery in the region in 1896. 
Our goal is to create an incentive 
for authentic breweries to stay local.
Support your local brewer! San Diego’s Local Beer Culture Must be Salvaged from Corporate Overhaul
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff.    Postponing the nomination of the Supreme Court’s ninth 
member is not the first time Republicans have attempted to 
make President Obama jump through unnecessary hoops. 
But the death of Justice Antonin Scalia has the potential to 
usher in a new era of the Supreme Court and of U.S. politics 
— a more liberal one, as opposed to the conservative-leaning 
balance the Supreme Court has had for over a decade. With 
the high volume of timely cases to be heard in the Court’s 
next two terms, it’s important and necessary for the sake of 
progress for Obama to appoint and confirm the ninth justice.
The Republicans’ claims that confirming a member of the 
Supreme Court  has never happened in an election year are 
simply wrong. According to the New York Times, Anthony 
Kennedy was confirmed by a Democratic Senate in 1988, 
an election year. Moreover, these claims are irrelevant. 
Nowhere is it mentioned in the Constitution that such an 
appointment cannot happen during this period, and in no 
way is it reasonable to prevent the Supreme Court from fully 
functioning given the number of qualified justices being considered for appointment. 
 With Scalia’s vacancy, the only decisions the Court can 
make are to plan a rehearing or to uphold the decision of a 
lower court. This will have a significant impact in cases such 
as Whole Woman’s Health v. Cole, which Politico deems the 
“most important abortion case since 1992” and which will 
be heard by the Supreme Court within the next term. The 
last ruling on this issue gave states the right to legally restrict 
abortion that did not cause “undue burden” on access to 
procedures. With the expected 4-4 split in this decision, the 
result of next month’s ruling could mean abortions clinics 
shutting down throughout Texas. Of course, with Scalia on 
the court — and especially given his previous rulings on 
abortion cases — this may have already been the decision, but 
the case must be given a Supreme Court ruling. One vote in 
favor of overturning such restrictions would mean safer and 
more accessible abortions. With moves to defund Planned 
Parenthood alongside the fact that, as reported by World 
Health Organization, abortion rates in countries in which 
See SCALIA, page 5With the death of  Scalia – an unquestionably conservative 
and influential member of the Supreme Court –the U.S. 
awaits a landmark shift in political ideology
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON 
BRANDON   REYNANTE
BREYNANTE@ENG.UCSD.EDUHand  &  Heart
A background in engineering 
seems to be the rule rather than the 
exception for violent radicals. In 
Engineers of Jihad, Diego Gambetta 
and Steffan Hertog reported that 
engineers are overrepresented 
among U.S. white supremacists and 
violent Islamists — nearly a quarter 
possess engineering degrees. The 
researchers attributed this finding to 
the tendency of engineers to believe 
in only one way of knowing about 
the world — the scientific method 
— causing them to be unquestioning 
of doctrine and authority. 
On Sept. 11, 2001, Mohamed 
Atta hijacked American Airlines 
flight 11 and crashed into the World 
Trade Center, killing more than 1,300 
people. The attack — part of a larger 
effort that claimed nearly 3,000 lives 
— was orchestrated by Osama Bin 
Laden, founder of the militant Islamist 
organization al-Qaeda. Bin Laden 
and Atta — two of the most infamous 
terrorists in U.S. history — were 
engineers by training.
This demonstrates an uncritical 
acceptance of authority and reliance 
on science through engineering’s 
symbiotic relationship with 
militarism. The word “engineer” 
originally meant a constructor of 
war-engines. The Cold W ar spawned 
the ubiquitous engineering science 
curriculum espoused in the Grinter 
Report by the American Society of 
Engineering Education. And most 
engineering schools, including UCSD, 
maintain close ties to the defense 
industry where defense contractor 
executives sit on the Corporate 
Affiliates Program board. 
Militarism demands strict 
adherence to hierarchical power 
structures, which may explain why 
many engineers hold the untenable 
belief that they are constrained by 
organizational culture. Exhibiting 
a lack of perceived accountability 
for the social ramifications of their 
actions, these engineers echo those 
who made the Holocaust possible, 
as described in Hannah Arendt’s 
Eichmann in Jerusalem — ordinary 
citizens complicit in atrocities 
simply because they were “doing 
their job. ” I know many engineers 
who have no concern for how their 
inventions are used and no qualms 
about designing weapons.
However, engineers who design 
weapons bear some culpability for 
the violent acts committed with said 
weapons. In Materializing Morality, 
Peter-Paul Verbeek ascribes moral 
responsibility for the actions of 
technology users to engineers because 
technology shapes human behavior. 
This is supported by psychology 
research, like a 1967 study by Leonard 
Berkowitz showing that the mere 
presence of weapons elicits aggression. 
By creating weapons, engineers 
enhance not only one’s physical 
capability to commit violence but also 
one’s desire to do so. 
How might engineering-related 
violence be combated? In Immunising 
the Mind, Martin Rose suggests that 
more education in the humanities and 
social sciences — which encourages 
critical thinking and questioning of 
knowledge and authority — could 
immunize engineers against violent 
extremism. To mitigate potentially 
violent consequences of technology, 
engineers could perform a moral 
assessment of its predicted future 
mediating role, but they must first 
fully commit to pursuing peace 
through design.
To refashion a lyric from the band 
Thrice, “The abolition of man is 
within the reach of engineering, but 
are we so far gone that we’ll try it?”Engineering 
with a 
ConscienceOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
abortion is outlawed are the same 
as those in countries where it is 
legal and safer, this is significant.
Without a ninth member, 
it’s almost guaranteed that 
these restrictions on women’s 
reproductive rights will be upheld. 
But with an extremely qualified 
candidate like Sri Srinivasan or 
Loretta Lynch — a judge on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
D.C. Circuit or the U.S. Attorney 
General, respectively — this could 
be a landmark decision in which 
the legality of these restrictions are 
finally overturned.
Similarly, the Supreme Court 
cannot make any decisions on the basis of original jurisdiction, which 
is usually used to solve state-to-
state disputes, as it requires nine 
judges and cannot result in a tie. 
This has the potential to deadlock 
extremely important issues.
Obama has the opportunity 
now to end the 5–4 conservative 
lean in the Supreme Court 
by appointing a liberal, and 
potentially securing decades of 
progress. He has already been 
shifting the High Court liberally by 
appointing Kagan and Sotomayor 
in 2009 and 2010 – reported by the 
Washington Times – both of whom 
provide important female voices 
within a historically male court. 
There are qualified people 
to choose for the position. The New York Times reported that, 
eighty-five days after being named 
by Reagan in 1986, Scalia was 
unanimously confirmed by people 
of both parties in the Senate 
because of his qualifications; those 
nominated by Obama with high 
qualifications are fully prepared 
to be integral members on the 
Supreme Court. 
The appointment is indeed a 
matter of now versus later, but 
in this political climate, a year 
of judicial stagnation could halt 
progress, if not prevent it, in areas 
of reproductive rights, rights to 
unionize and healthcare. One thing 
is for sure: A vacant seat cannot 
stay vacant, and we must not waste 
time.
A FILM BY  PAUL DALIOSPIKE LEE PRESENTS
IN THEATERS FEBRUARY 19
CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS FOR THEATERS AND SHOWTIMESMOTION PICTURE ARTWORK © 2016 ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED./TOUCHEDWITHFIREMOVIE WWW.TOUCHEDWITHFIRE.COMKATIE HOLMES LUKE KIRBY
 “AN IMPORTANT, INCREDIBLY   POWERFUL FILM .” 
Bill Zwecker, Chicago Sun-Times
“FEROCIOUS AND FULL OF LIFE .”
            -Fred Topel, Crave Online
            -Fred Topel, Crave 
“SENSITIVELY DETAILED AND
EMOTIONALLY COMPELLING .”
                     -Joe Leydon, Variety
 “P A U L  D A L I O ’ S  S C R I P T  A N D  D I R E C T I O N ,  A N D  T H E 
MARVELOUSLY EVOCATIVE  SCORE HE COMPOSED  
FOR THE FILM AS WELL, ARE ALL OF A CALIBER THAT EASILY TAKES 
US FAR BEYOND MOVIE-OF-THE-WEEK TERRITORY .  
GO SEE FOR YOURSELF .”
                                   -Ben Dickin son, ELLE
“
FEROCIOUS AND 
FULL OF LIFE
”
                                   -Ben Dickin
son, 
ELLE
“KATIE HOLMES GIVES A POWERFUL
PERFORMANCE IN A FILM THAT’S AN  
EXAMINATION OF WHAT REALLY SPURS CREATIVITY .”
                              -Carly Metz, Nylon
                     -Joe Leydon, 
Variety
“★★★★  A MASTERFUL  DRAMA
WITH AN IMPACT UNLIKE ANYTHING ELSE .”
                   - Jeff Nelson, DVD Talk
“★★★★”
-Marlon Wallace, WBOC TV 16
“★★★★”
-Mark Saldana, True View Reviews
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER▶ SCALIA  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Scalia’s Vacancy Allows for Potential Liberal Shift on Supreme Court
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UCSD GUARDIAN NOMINATIONSNobody expected it. But in a culture ever too eager to revive the dead, it shouldn’t come as a surprise. Y et another pulp franchise has been wrestled back 
from decades past to once again grace the big screen — for better or worse. But of those shambling nostalgia-zombies, none have been as expertly 
re-realized as “Mad Max: Fury Road. ” The premise is stupidly simple: a there-and-back-again tale of a post-apocalyptic loner who helps rescue a gang of 
princesses from a zealous warlord, during which the viewer is treated to every car chase scenario the mind can muster. While other reboots are content to 
languish in past glories, “Fury Road” provides a swift kick to the stomach. With nary a full paragraph of continuous dialogue uttered, it’s cinema in its purest 
form, it’s carnal, it’s surprisingly progressive — it’s the evolution of Director Frank Miller’s delirious vision from almost forty years earlier. Just go and watch it.
—  JOSH   LEFLER    Contributing Writer
In preparation for her previous dramatic role in “Short Term 12, ” Brie Larson was 
granted a meager two weeks to throw things together. In contrast, for “Room” she was 
allowed six months of research and personal investment. The difference, surprisingly, is 
not in her visual performance, although she does shed all makeup and give herself up to 
a generally raw, stripped-down quality. It is, however, the unspoken nuances that are far 
more elucidating of her success. The minutiae, from writing diary entries as her character, 
picking the brain of trauma specialists and building rapport with her onscreen son over 
Legos, are all key components of her role. The allure is that none of this is overtly obvious, 
but it comes out organically in the character of Ma, giving her a depth that is extremely easy 
to overlook. However, it is precisely these accents that help add definition to this broken 
woman. Behind each person is an identity that cannot be contained in a single space. It 
spills over from an entire lifetime of memories and experiences.
—  Tynan  Y anaga   Senior Staff Writer
Eddie Redmayne’s role as Lili Elbe in “The Danish Girl” is formulaic Oscar fodder: A man 
is consumed by a life-altering self-realization and bravely pursues it amid emotional 
and physical turmoil. Y et the story of Lili Elbe’s transformation is equally one about his wife: 
Alicia Vikander takes on the emotional role of Gerda Wegender but does not stick to the same 
formula. Y es, she skillfully presents Wegender as a woman of overwhelming strength and 
understanding, and, yes, she captures emotional moments with an ideal balance of vigor and 
tenderness. But she goes beyond checking off the list of traits expected of a supporting actress 
starring in the biopic of an onscreen husband. Vikander dashes brilliant feminist commentary 
—casting a powerful female gaze on male portrait subjects — into scenes layered with complex 
sentiments. Vikander masters reluctant, unconditional acceptance and unwavering loyalty, 
making it all too clear that Elbe’s journey was not one taken alone.
—  karl y  nisson    A&E EditorThe running joke that Leo has never won an Oscar has grown rather tiresome and needs 
to be laid to rest. Thankfully this year he probably will, and should, win best actor, at 
least by Oscar standards. After all, he’s paid his dues, suffered enough and sacrificed himself 
for the part of Hugh Glass, the fur trader and explorer who lived through a bear mauling and 
frigid conditions to return from the brink of the grave. Such a compelling tale calls for major 
personal investment on the part of the actor, and DiCaprio obliged by willingly relinquishing 
almost all human dignities. But perhaps the most troubling aspect about the role is that despite 
it being an impressive feat, it lacks underlying emotion. At times, the revenant is little more 
than a hollow ghost of a man surviving through the unthinkable. It asks the question: How do 
we truly measure superb acting? For the record, it’s nothing against Leo. He certainly deserves 
this one, but it should not simply be because he slept inside an animal carcass, eating raw bison 
for good measure. Otherwise, if it’s not already, the Oscar becomes little more than an empty 
gesture on the political battlefield known as Hollywood.
—  Tynan  y anaga   Senior Staff Writer
In “Spotlight, ” Mark Ruffalo leads a talented cast of actors through the streets of traditional 
Boston in 2002 in search of proof to take down the clergy on charges of rape. In a movie 
that deals with the very sensible topic of child rape in the Catholic Church, and is based on 
a true story, Ruffalo’s intensity and passion captures the journalist’s dilemma between letting 
emotions overwhelm him and presenting the facts in a sensible matter. His performance, 
overall, brings light to the profession of journalism and journalists’ responsibility to expose the 
truth with integrity and courage. Ruffalo also revealed that his dedication to the role led him to 
shadow the journalist Mike Rezendes from the Boston Globe in order to better his acting and 
as he explained, “to get that story right, otherwise it’s just going to be picked apart like a hunk 
of bread in a coy pond. It’s just going to be eaten alive. ” 
—  marcus thuillier   Contributing Writer
1 2
3 4 5BEST PICTURE: 
MAD MAX: FURY ROAD  
BEST ACTRESS IN A LEADING ROLE: 
BRIE LARSON IN “ROOM” 
BEST ACTRESS IN A SUPPORTING ROLE: 
ALICIA VIKANDER IN “THE DANISH GIRL”  BEST ACTOR IN A LEADING ROLE: 
LEONARDO DICAPRIO IN “THE REVENANT”
BEST ACTOR IN A SUPPORTING ROLE:
MARK RUFFALO IN “SPOTLIGHT” Will Win: “ The Revenant” 
Will Win: Brie Larson in “Room”
Will Win: Alicia Vikander in “ The Danish Girl” Will Win: Leonardo DiCaprio in “ The Revenant” 
Will Win: Sylvester Stallone in “Creed”
1. Best Picture, (Photo Courtesy of Jasin Boland)  2. Best Actor in a Leading Role (Photo Courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox) , 3. Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Photo Courtesy of Sensacine) , 4. Best Actress in a 
Supporting Role (Photo Courtesy of Collider) , 5. Best Actress in a Leading Role (Photo Courtesy of AceShowBiz) THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
In the 18th century, there 
were a considerable number 
of “metromaniacs” (poetry 
fanatics) who crazily and easily fell 
in love with well-written poems in 
France. Normally, their affections 
extended to the authors of the 
poems. Some of these metromaniacs 
even publicly courted lady poets 
whom they appreciated. As one of 
these hopeless lovers, the famous 
French writer Voltaire conveyed his 
feelings to Mademoiselle Malcrais 
de La Vigne, who was actually a 
man using a feminine penname. 
After his real identity, Paul Desforges-Maillard, was revealed, 
French dramatist Alexis Piron wrote 
a comedy named “La Metromanie” 
based on this ridiculous anecdote.
Adapted from “La Metromanie, ” 
“The Metromaniacs” features a group 
of poetry lovers who either have 
fake identities or fall in love with 
poets and poetesses whom they have 
never met. Translated and adapted 
by David Ives, this English version 
stays true to the original settings and 
characterization. The love triangles 
and complicated relationships that 
result from mistaken identities make 
the story intriguing and intense. It is a fast-paced show: The audience has to 
pay close attention to every word the 
actors are saying in order to not miss 
any important message.
The cast is an excellent one in 
terms of language and acting skills. It 
does its best to please the audience, 
usually in an over-the-top way. Laughs 
are incessantly heard, yet some are 
apparently not so impressed by the 
farce, as the characters’ actions can be 
embarrassing like frequently bumping 
into walls. It is clear that these actions 
are designed for entertainment, but 
perhaps too much so. Facetious 
language is enough to demonstrate 
the character’s ridiculousness, unless 
you fancy a little silliness.
Credit should be given to the very 
humorous playwright David Ives, who successfully preserves the light-
hearted nature of the French play and 
tailors the work specifically for an 
American audience. There are jokes 
about democracy, or Britney Spears, 
that you can easily miss if you are 
unfamiliar with American culture. It 
is all written in verse, in accordance 
with the form of the original texts. 
Overall, the brilliancy of Ives’ use of 
language should not be neglected: The 
rhymes at the end of the lines and the 
precision of diction make the lines 
pleasant to hear.
However, these merits could in 
turn be the play’s weaknesses, since 
the story is not realistic at all. The 
characters living in 18th-century 
France are joking about present-day 
America. People are so easily fooled by fake identities that one could easily 
manipulate them. What messages 
then, apart from pure entertainment, 
can we get out of the play? There are 
seldom any reflections deep enough 
for us to contemplate. Besides the fact 
that it is funny and uniquely written in 
verse, the play does not offer anything 
lasting that one will remember. The 
character relationships are convoluted 
indeed, but the storyline is nothing 
profound or strikingly innovative. 
Expect to enjoy a relaxing time at 
the theatre, where you can escape to 
an imaginative and airy world full of 
poems, but nothing more.
— Yidian  Huang
Staff WriterThe exclusive English version of “The Metromaniacs” 
proves to be a brilliant adaption of a shallow story.Directed by   Michael Kahn
Written by  David Ives
Starring   Christian Conn, Cary Donaldson
Runs   Jan. 30 to March 6
Location   The Old GlobePHOTO BY SCOTT SUCHMAN
PLA Y   REVIEW
the  metromaniacs“The Witch” reaches 
into a deeper form of 
fear by attacking the 
building block of stability: family. 
The film takes no time to raise the 
stakes, and that willingness to play 
with structure is a creative risk that 
pays off in dividends. Ten minutes 
into the film, the hunt starts when 
baby Samuel disappears under 
the care of eldest sister Thomasin 
(Anya Taylor-Joy). There’s a 
constant worry for those out of 
sight. Suspicions and accusations 
are directed at family members 
with little to no evidence — a true 
witch hunt. A family caught in the 
grip of Puritan zealotry, unable 
to produce food and exiled from 
the colony, isn’t given a break as 
paranoia slowly creeps into their 
lives. This is as much a domestic 
drama as it is a horror.
The film is a master class in 
writing, acting and directing. Its 
world is a bleak place, a mixture 
of infinite forest and suffocating 
fog. The film lacks vibrancy, but 
the drab world instills a sense of 
hopelessness that weighs down 
on the soul. The camera unifies the alien world of colonial New 
England as one hostile mass. Tonal 
consistency keeps the audience 
wired throughout, making for a 
brisk watch. “The Witch” plays 
with ambiguity in regards to the 
existence of the supernatural, both 
of the divine and damned. Foreign 
yet familiar, their vernacular has 
an alienating sense to it. Every 
word is shrouded by thick English 
accents, nearly in need of subtitles 
whenever William (Ralph Ineson) 
graces the screen.
Their descent into unhinged 
zealotry is enrapturing because 
the family’s cast is impeccable. 
Harvey Scrimshaw has a breakout 
performance as eldest son Caleb, 
basking in the spotlight with 
two major scenes. One of them 
is reminiscent of “The Exorcist, ” 
but uniquely captivating because 
it’s Caleb, an innocent child. The 
vestige of childhood does nothing 
to hold back the supernatural forces 
that prey on the weak; its sexual 
undercurrents are unnerving, 
especially when juxtaposed with the 
children. The young twins Mercy 
(Ellie Granger) and Jonas (Lucas Dawson) beckon “The Shining, ” 
but serve a more active role here — 
testing family loyalties by accusing 
Thomasin of witchcraft. A scuffle 
between children grows into 
genuine concern for her allegiance 
to Christianity. Thomasin’s very 
position in the family is being 
questioned, she’s loathed by 
her siblings and tormented by 
her parents. Without a sense of 
purpose, she splinters off — burned 
by the one source that was supposed 
to provide unconditional love.
This is dark folklore a la 2014’s 
“It Follows, ” remixing classic 
elements of horror into something 
unique and familiar. These 
elements are carefully weaved 
together by the scrupulous vision 
of director Robert Eggers, who 
constructs an enveloping attack 
on the senses out of it. This is 
a testament to the ingenuity of 
independent filmmaking, showing 
what’s possible with a million-
dollar budget and acclaim at 
Sundance. It’s an incredible debut 
for Eggers, who’s managed to 
manifest fear in the darkest corners 
of our hearts.
— sam  velazquez
A&E Editorial Assistant
the  witchDirected by   Robert Eggers
Starring   Anna Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson
Rated  R
Release Date  Feb. 19
An instantaneous horror classic, “The Witch” exposes 
the fragility of people’s psyche under pressure.PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
FILM   REVIEW
Release Date Feb. 17 
Runs Wednesdays at 10pm on Comedy Central
Self-proclaimed queens of New Y ork City, Abbi 
and Ilana tackle adulthood one day at a time.TV  REVIEW
Fans of the Comedy Central 
sitcom “Broad City” will 
recognize and appreciate the 
classic adventures of Abbi Abrams 
(Jacobson) and Ilana Wexler (Glaser) 
before the colorful theme song even 
begins, and first-time viewers will 
become equally engrossed in the 
dysfunctional experiences of the 
inseparable duo in no time. On the 
surface, endearingly clumsy Abbi and 
unapologetically candid Ilana are the 
least-compatible pair imaginable. 
However, the very first scene of the 
third season emphasizes what the two 
have in common: an uncensored, two-
panel montage simultaneously depicts 
what happens in Abbi and Ilana’s 
bathrooms, from spontaneous sex to 
secret bong rips. 
Jacobson and Glazer have natural 
chemistry on screen; each actress is 
so convincing in her role that viewers 
may occasionally question whether or 
not the narrative is entirely fictitious. 
While the first two seasons of Broad 
City occasionally strayed from Abbi 
and Ilana’s friendship to explore other 
characters’ stories, Season 3 is all about 
celebrating the incomparable bond 
these two share. The show effectively 
captures the ideals of true friendship: 
Ilana is there to rescue Abbi from 
a demonic Porta-Potty, while Abbi 
impersonates Ilana to cover her shift 
at a co-op. Several familiar faces, 
including Ilana’s non-exclusive boy-
toy Lincoln (Hannibal Buress) and 
Abbi’s fellow personal trainer Trey 
(Paul W . Downs), bolster the narrative 
by facilitating the best friends’ 
character development, bringing out 
Abbi’s extremely competitive nature 
and Ilana’s progressive views.
However, a couple of scenes 
seemed unnecessarily long and 
detracted attention from the two main 
characters. The spontaneous musical 
number in episode three: “Game 
Over” lasts for over an entire minute and does not feature any primary 
cast members, let alone the two 
stars of the show. Although Whoopi 
Goldberg makes an entertaining 
cameo in this scene, the song does 
not contribute anything substantial 
to the episode and instead serves as 
a reminder that organic interactions 
between Abbi and Ilana are what give 
the screenplay life. 
The show once again manages to 
incorporate profound and bold social 
commentary into every episode. 
“Broad City” does not shy away from 
taboo topics in social culture, such 
as recreational drug use and female 
sexuality. It is rare, almost unheard 
of, to witness female characters 
candidly discussing masturbation 
or questioning the individuality of 
anuses in public, but these interactions 
are what help eradicate the societal 
expectation of feminine docility. The 
show urges both male and female 
viewers to stop tiptoeing around 
subjects that are part of human 
nature and instead address issues 
that are legitimately disturbing, like 
Ilana’s example of Saudi women 
who are required to obtain written 
permission from their husbands (or 
“male guardians”) before leaving their 
houses. “Broad City” is one of the very 
few sitcoms that makes viewers think 
just as hard as it makes them laugh. 
With an strong emphasis on Abbi 
and Ilana’s friendship, and very few 
distractions in between, the show 
manages to communicate deep 
messages while delivering comedic 
punches effortlessly. Season 3 sets 
the standard for modern comedy: no 
boundaries, no filter — just priceless, 
refreshing humor. 
Three episodes watched for the 
season review.
—   Kriti  Sarin
Contributing Writer
NOMINATIONS
2
58     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
How can I avoid small talk 
or go beyond it to what’s 
really important in a 
conversation?  — Anonymous
Look, I wholeheartedly agree: 
Small talk is asinine, at best. 
However, the fact of the matter is 
that a one Miss Kristin Banta once 
sold pot (flower pots, mind you) 
before she got her famous gig as a 
designer in Los Angeles and made 
a star appearance on Millionaire 
Matchmaker. Now, as controversial 
as the neoliberal model is, there 
is something we can learn from 
Banta: You can’t suck at small talk, 
period. One can conceptualize 
small talk as the currency of social 
interaction. If you want to talk 
about the meaty topics — soy, if 
that suits you much better — you’re 
going to have to chat about the 
H&M basics first: first, last, zodiac, 
preferred gender pronouns, etc. 
There’s no cutting the necessary 
crap, but you could always spice it 
up. Instead of just plainly asking 
“so what’s your name, dude, ” you 
might try an alternative method 
such as remixing everything lobbed 
your way in a new-age meets art 
nouveau rap — however, for peace 
and sanity of contemporary poetics, 
don’t be a Kenneth Goldsmith — or 
attempting to predict their natal 
chart horoscope for the day. Mix it 
up like a salad or a shake. 
On the topic of small talk, 
can it be canonically established 
that reciprocity is [OK hand 
sign emoji]? Do not be plastic 
in the slightest; if someone asks 
you a question, it is without 
hesitation that you should return 
the question in mint condition, 
lacquered in the stylistics of your 
chest voice. Human interaction is 
a narcissistic exchange grounded 
in self-advancement and thought 
— it’s what our entire lives are 
founded upon — through the 
emotional exploitation of others. 
If you need that condensed into 
a snack-pack sized bite, it means 
that when someone asks you a 
question they are really attempting 
to ask themselves. How rhetorical. 
Obviously, there are exceptions to 
the rule (read: Tim Gunn, season 
six), but it’s not possible to just look 
at a one sided conversation and 
go “I wonder why it’s not working 
out” when one person is practically 
shoving words down the other’s 
throat without any inclination to 
share. Don’t be a greedy fink-rat.
If at this point you’ve reached 
a stalemate and started mumbling 
A-W-K-W-A-R-D under your 
breath, then do not show any signs 
of frustration or anger. Your scene 
partner is likely attempting to 
upstage you with their dramatic 
inner monologue and voiceover, 
so keep quiet and pressure them 
with silence to force a point 
of discussion out. One other 
psychological technique you can 
employ is subtly changing posture, 
using new hand motions or 
mirroring body language. Doing 
this permits the other to take 
notice and perhaps also change the 
dynamic of the conversation.
What’s most important is that 
you orient the conversation toward 
the direction you want to end at. 
Look at trendy topics in today’s 
society. Most people are not fond 
of discussing the weather (contrary 
to popular belief) or penny board 
designs, but are more statistically 
interested in deconstructing 
capitalism, colonialism and the 
patriarchy with an intellectual, 
academic lens.
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU53*50/508"5$)
andy bodnar
Interview by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
This week on Triton to Watch, we had the opportunity to interview Andy Bodnar. He’s a rad student by day, 
currently studying molecular biology, but accomplished gamer by night — and is currently ranked eighth 
across San Diego in Super Smash Bros, a popular fighting game published by Nintendo. 
My first experience with smash was with its first iteration, 
“Smash 64. ” That was back when it first came out in the late 1990s, when 
I was probably six or seven years old. It was a bunch of classic Nintendo 
characters mashed together in a fun game, what more could a kid ask for? 
Since then I have played every iteration that has come out since: “Melee, ” 
“Brawl” and “Smash 4. ” I went to one or two “Brawl” tournaments toward 
the end of high school, but it was not until about a year ago that I really 
got into the game competitively. It was actually one of my good friends, 
Chris Rugg (better known as “falln”), that first introduced me to the Smash 
community. He invited me to a tournament with him, and that was all it 
took for me to get the competitive bug.GUARDIAN :How did you get into Smash?
ANDY :
Which character do you main? 
I main the Robotic Operating Buddy, better known as R.O.B. R.O.B 
is an interesting character, due to both a strong projectile game, as well as 
having one of the best throw combos in the game. R.O.B is a character that 
is usually considered fairly campy, but I like to think of him as more of a 
tactician’s character. You can switch from a long-range keep-away game to 
a throw-heavy game plan with ease. His projectiles can cause frustration 
in the other player, forcing them into decisions and patterns they would 
otherwise not make. By exploiting these patterns and bad decisions, R.O.B 
can really shine as a character. Basically, the R.O.B player strives to make 
the opponent play their game, then trap them and finish off their stocks.A:G: What is next for you?
I would say my next major goal is to make the SoCal [Player 
Rankings]. San Diego has some good players, but it is still just a subregion 
of the greater SoCal area. This means a lot more traveling to tournaments 
in and around the Los Angeles area. In addition, I also plan on attending 
EVO 2016 in July. The best players in the world will be there, and it is a 
great chance to clash with some of them. My goal for EVO is to at least 
make it out of the first round of pools. This would rank me somewhere in 
the best 128–256 players in the world (depending on how many they take 
out of first round pools). It would be a great accomplishment for me, and 
would really validate the time I have put into this game.A:G:
How do you balance school and maintaining your rank?
No question, school comes first. There have been many tournaments 
I have missed due to midterms/finals etc. While this is a fun hobby, I am 
under no delusions that it will turn into a career for me. Generally I go 
to one or two tournaments a week. It is a great way to let off steam after 
studying for hours on end. It is at tournaments that I get most of my 
practice in, as there is no better way to prepare for in game situations than 
to actually experience them in a high pressure situation where one wrong 
move could mean the difference between going home with money in your 
pocket, or just lint and dust. Otherwise, most of my time is spent studying 
for classes. Quick plug: anybody who is interested in picking up the 
game should go to the tournaments here at UCSD. They are usually every 
Sunday, and you will never meet a group of more inclusive, kind and great 
people then you do in the Smash community. Hope to see you guys and 
gals at some of these tournaments soon! A:G:How did you get to be rank eight in San Diego?
Getting ranked in San Diego was my long term goal when I first 
started playing. I started as every newcomer does, by going 0–2 at my first 
tournament. In order to get better, you have to be willing to take your 
lumps from better players. Otherwise, you will never realize your mistakes, 
and even more importantly, you will never learn how to fix those mistakes. 
I was lucky in one sense though, as I have a world class training partner in 
falln. You get better really quickly when you are training with one of the 
top players in the U.S.! I have to attribute at least some of my success to 
him, as he was willing to take this scrub under his wing and teach me the 
intricacies of the game, things that would have otherwise taken me a much 
longer time to pick up.A:G:
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM ANDY BODNAR THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Join us for this special event and learn about the importance 
of volunteer service and opportunities to make a difference 
around the world as a Peace Corps Volunteer.  Speaking Engagement With  
Director of the Peace Corps  
 
Volunteer Service Presentation by  
Carrie Hessler-Radelet  
University of California - San Diego
Tuesday, February 23
6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
School of Global Policy & Strategy
Robinson Auditorium  
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go? 
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.
HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! 
CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
To set up an interview please 
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com  
or call Stefanie at 516-626-7668. Interviews will be held on 
Friday, February 26th 
10:00 AM – 4:00 PM at 
the Career Services Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.comby   b r i t t n e y   l u
Lifestyle co-editor
The iconicism of Balboa Park is no stranger to the native 
San Diegan, but even the most seasoned locals are typically 
unaware of Balboa’s unspoken treasures and uncovered 
spaces. Kate Clark, the head curator of Parkeology — a five-
month art installation and collaboration between Balboa Park, the 
San Diego Art Institute, California Art Council and other regional 
museums — plans to expose the lesser known of San Diegan 
symbolism in a series of five events, beginning Feb. 20, that features 
reinvented spaces, hidden histories and secret objects that coagulate to 
form the underbelly of Balboa. 
This coming Saturday, delve into the mysteries of the San Diego Model 
Railroad Museum in Untracked — a complimentary exhibit to the miniature model 
that unveils the underground networks and urban tactics that compose San Diego’s transit narrative. Future 
exhibits include public integration in art installation pieces, like Facing Artifacts — a participatory event 
held in the Museum of Man where park-goers can become a piece of the anthropological database as they 
model for plaster profiles — and even sociologically controversial pieces — like Queen’s Circle in Marston 
Point parking lot, which divulges insight into San Diego’s LGBTQ community’s stigmatized past via tactical 
art projects that reimagine urban spaces and community stratification. 
Even the erotic histories of Balboa are exposed through reenactments in May 2016’s feature, “Naked 
Truth: The Rise and Fall of America’s Only Public Nudist Colony, ” in which pageants of an often unbelieved 
past wherein nudists congregated in the heart of the Prado to explore human sexuality and observe the most 
vulnerably situated socialization are shown to rediscover the more taboo side of Balboa. Interested in exploring 
more of Balboa’s unknown? Then check out Parkeology’s intriguing and often unsettling demonstration of San 
Diego’s unspoken history. And if you can’t make it to the live event, Parkeology provides a specialized TV and 
podcast series that will cover Parkeology’s uncovering of the lesser known in Balboa.             LOGO COURTESY OF PARKEOLOGY
 
by  S h e l by   N e w a l l i s
LIfestyle Senior Staff Writer
It’s easy to get lost in a sea of midterms, 
papers and final exams and forget that 
UCSD is actually kind of cool. There are 
many unique on-campus resources and stores 
that students easily forget about; one of which is 
Friends Resale Shop. 
Located right off Library Walk at the UCSD 
International Center, Friends Resale Shop is 
one of UCSD’s hidden gems that is actually 
not-so-hidden at all. Ran by the Friends of the 
International Center, Friends Resale Shop is an 
on-campus thrift store, offering a wide range of 
gently used clothes (contemporary, designer and 
vintage), household items and books. Proceeds 
from the sales help fund scholarships and 
activities related to international education.There is a wide array of reasonably priced 
items, making it perfect for students looking to 
do a bit of shopping, without feeling bad about 
it. There’s no need to feel guilty about engaging 
in a little retail therapy when you are helping by 
recycling the old into new opportunity for your 
peers to study abroad — it takes upcycling to a 
whole new level!  
If thrifting isn’t really your thing, but you’ d 
still like to be a part of Friends Resale Shop 
family, you can volunteer and/or donate gently 
used items.  
Business Hours: Monday through Friday 10 a.m. 
to 3:30 p.m. during the academic year.LOGO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM FRIENDS RESALE SHOP10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBURARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Road Bike GMC Denali - $150. Great bike. 
Nice and lightweight. Very quick. Listing ID: 
237287779 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
NEW GT Bicycle Seat - $15. GT bicycle seat 
(came standard on the bicycle). Never used. 
Listing ID: 237287777 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beach Cruiser Bicycle - $120. Army green 
beach cruiser. Like-new condition. Listing 
ID: 237287775 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationELECTRONICS
Small TV with Built in DVD Player - $40. 
Still works great. Would be good for a 
kid’s room or RV. No remote. Listing ID: 
237287864 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Keyboards/Mouse - $10. New authentic 
DELL keyboard and mouse sets. $7.00 key -
board only. $5.00 mouse only. Listing ID: 
237287863 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Amazon Kindle - $40. Works, just needs 
charging. Will provide the charger with it. 
Listing ID: 237287856 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationFURNITURE
IKEA Dining Table - $60. Dining table and 
two chairs. Listing ID: 237287884 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Reclining Loveseat - $400. Ashley Furniture 
reclining loveseat. Durablend leather, dark 
brown. Reclines with manual levers on both 
sides. Less than one year old. Listing ID: 
237287882 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
White Wicker Bookcase - $65. Cute 
white wicker bookcase. Perfect for bath -
room, bedroom or kids room. Listing ID: 
237287870 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.eduTRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
1pm–3pm 10am–2pm 10am–2pm 1pm–3pm 1pm–3pmHOURS OF OPERATION:V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
hit a two-RBI single following the 
errors of the Warriors.  
Brown now moves to 4–0 for the 
season as she pitched four innings 
and was relieved by senior righty 
Hannah Duarte in the fifth.
Game One vs. Adelphi
After coming in full of confidence 
behind a four-game series sweep 
against Cal State Stanislaus, the 
Tritons came up just short in the 
first game of the doubleheader 
against Adelphi University. 
The Panthers gained an early 
one-run lead in the first inning, and 
the game remained 1–0 until the 
fourth. UCSD was finally able to 
tie up the game as Lewis doubled to 
center field and brought in Maday, 
who had bunted her way on base 
early in the inning.
Adelphi then responded strongly 
in top of the sixth, as it scored six runs 
to regain the lead and give UCSD the 
tough task of coming back.
The Tritons did create a game out 
of it by bringing three runners home 
in the bottom of the sixth after the 
bases were loaded and sophomore 
designated hitter Emily Sklencar 
hit a single to center, followed by a 
Clewett RBI single to bat one more 
score in.  
In the final inning of the game, UCSD needed three more runs to tie 
it up, but came short as it could only 
produce two.  
Lefty Edwards took her first loss 
of the season (4–1).
Game Two
The second game of the 
doubleheader was completely 
different from the first, as the 
Tritons only needed five innings to 
get the best of Adelphi in a 13–0 
shutout victory.
This time around, UCSD got off  
to an early 4–0 lead in the first as 
Sanders contributed with a two-run 
single. The Tritons then added to it 
in the third with eight more runs, 
with the help of a Clewett two-RBI 
single. Adelphi had no response 
this time as it struggled to manage 
a mere one run throughout the ball 
game.   
In the fourth, the Tritons put up 
one final run on the board which 
gave the win to Brown, who now 
stands at an impressive 5–0 with an 
0.85 ERA.  
The Tritons will now go on 
the road to take on Cal State 
Dominguez Hills after having 
played 10 consecutive home games; 
it will be part of a four-game series 
held this weekend in Carson Feb. 19 
to 20.No. 16 UCSD baseball had quite 
the busy weekend, playing six home 
games over the course of  a four-
day period. They finished off the 
weekend 5-1, taking only one loss 
during its doubleheader with Cal 
State San Bernardino on Saturday 
night, snapping the Tritons’ six-game 
winning streak. 
The Tritons are currently 7-1 on the 
season so far.
Game One
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Kyle Mora got his first collegiate start 
Thursday night against UT Permian 
Basin, going four innings and holding 
the UTPB Falcons to three hits and 
three runs. 
The Falcons scored first in the top 
of the third, getting two runs off Mora.
After senior outfielder Gradeigh 
Sanchez’s single up the middle, junior 
outfielder Jack Larsen homered to right 
field, tying the game up at 2–2 heading 
into the top of the fourth.
UTPB hit a solo home run off  
Mora, taking the lead 3–2 before the 
Tritons answered back scoring another 
run, tying the game back up yet again. 
Sophomore left-handed pitcher 
Travis Roberts came in to pitch for the 
Tritons at the top of the fifth. Roberts 
gave up two back-to-back two-out 
singles, putting runners on first and 
second. The Falcons hit a bases-
clearing double as they regained the 
lead over the Tritons 5–3; the Tritons 
responded with a two-run homer from 
sophomore infielder Tyler Plantier. 
UTPB scraped together one run off 
of freshman right-handed pitcher Tim Nelson in the seventh before Tritons’ 
junior outfielder Jack Larsen hit his 
second solo-bomb of the day to right 
field, tying the game up at 6–6.
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Erik Amundson held the Falcons at 
six runs as he retired the side in the 
top of the eighth. Junior infielder JD 
Hearn singled in junior infielder Vince 
Mori from third base in the bottom of 
the eighth, taking a one-run lead for 
the Tritons; freshman right-handed 
pitcher Cameron Kurz got the save for 
the Tritons as he came in the game for 
the top of the ninth and retired the side.
Game Two
Freshman left-handed pitcher Brent 
Bell earned his first collegiate start and 
win during game two against UTPB on 
Friday. He went five scoreless innings 
before freshman right-handed pitcher 
Jonah Dipoto came in the game and 
threw a perfect three innings, retiring 
all nine batters in order. The Tritons 
then were able to win 8–1 against UT 
Permian Basin in game two of the 
three-game series with the Falcons. 
Vince Mori went 3–4 and had 
three RBIS for the Tritons while 
junior outfielder Brandon Shirley 
had two RBIS off his two-run triple 
in the bottom of the eighth inning. In 
addition, Larsen and Plantier both had 
an RBI for the Tritons. 
Game Three
Senior right-handed pitcher, Alon 
Leichman went the distance as he threw 
his first complete game as a Triton on 
Friday night, earning the win, helping 
UCSD complete the three-game sweep 
against UTPB. 
However, Leichman gave up two 
of the runs he earned with six hits 
against the Falcons. After a Sanchez single in the bottom 
of the first inning, junior outfielder 
Christian Leung hit a two-out base hit 
to center field, giving the Tritons the 
lead, 1–0.
The Tritons scored four runs in 
the second inning with two-outs, 
their rally beginning with a throwing 
error from the Falcon’s third baseman. 
Sanchez doubled down the left-field 
line, scoring one run while Larsen 
followed him with a triple down the 
right-field line, scoring two more for 
the Tritons. Plantier singled to left  
field, scoring Larsen from third before 
Plantier was thrown out trying to 
advance to second, ending the inning 
and enabling the Tritons to lead 5–0 
heading into the top of the third. 
While the Tritons were shut out by 
the Falcons for the rest of the game, 
Leichman did not allow the Falcons to 
put a run on the board until the top of 
the sixth.
The Falcons rallied, scoring two 
more runs in the top of the seventh. 
But Leichman got out of it, securing 
the win for the Tritons, 5–3. 
Game Four
The Tritons faced off with Cal 
State University San Bernardino for 
a non-conference doubleheader on 
Saturday. While they lost game one 
to the Coyotes, 8–2, they came back 
and won game two, 9–1. Nelson took 
the Tritons’ first loss of the season as 
he came relieving the starting pitcher, 
sophomore right-handed pitcher Jack 
Rupe, in the middle of the fourth 
inning. Plantier produced all of UCSD’s 
runs in the first game as he went three 
for four with two singles and two RBIS. 
CSUSB scored one run in the third 
through seventh innings, until it broke it open at the top of the eighth with a 
three-run inning. The Coyotes handed 
UCSD its first loss of the season with a 
final score of 8–2. 
Game Five
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Kyle Lucke got his first collegiate start 
for the Tritons during the nightcap 
of the doubleheader against CSUSB. 
Lucke went five innings, holding the 
Coyotes to only one run and one hit, 
which he gave up during the top of the 
first inning, totalling five strikeouts 
that night. 
The Tritons scored their first run 
of the night in the bottom of the third 
by  Leung’s sacrifice fly with the bases 
loaded; UCSD broke it open in the 
bottom of the fourth with a leadoff base 
hit from junior outfielder Brandon 
Shirley, a walk from junior infielder 
Tyler Howsley and then a double to 
right center by sophomore infielder 
Tim White, scoring Shirley. Larsen 
followed with a three-run bomb to 
right field, taking the lead 5–1.
In the fifth, the Tritons took 
advantage of walks and a couple 
throwing errors and putting up four 
more runs.
Roberts came in for relief for Lucke 
in the top of the sixth, allowing no hits 
and no runs to score. 
Game Six
Left-handed freshman Preston 
Mott earned the start on the mound for 
the Tritons as they faced off with No. 
10 Cal Poly Pomona on Sunday. Mott 
went five innings, holding CPP to four 
hits and no runs. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Jonah Dipoto came in relief for Mott, 
earning the win for the Tritons as he 
threw two innings, striking out three and giving up one hit and one run.
The Tritons struck first on a lead 
off double by Plantier in the bottom 
of the second; freshman first-
baseman Tyler Durna singled up the 
middle, scoring Plantier. 
Dipoto gave up a solo-shot to right 
field in the sixth, tying the game back 
up at 1–1.
The Tritons battled and took 
advantage of two errors by the CPP 
Broncos, as they scored three more 
runs in the bottom of the sixth.
Mora entered the game for Dipoto 
in the eighth, giving up one hit and 
allowing a run to score on an error.
The Tritons added two more 
insurance runs in the bottom of 
the eighth before freshman right-
handed pitcher Cameron Kurz came 
in and shut CPP down for the win in 
the ninth.
“When we scheduled a six-game 
weekend, I knew that this could be 
rough, ” Head Coach Eric Newman 
told UCSD athletics. “But you’ve got to 
credit the players, they really stepped 
up … We had a bad game in there, and 
when you play that many games in a 
weekend, it will happen. I think they 
learned from it and showed that they 
have the ability to grind out wins. The 
thing I like the most is that we used 
almost our entire roster, and the guys 
responded. They filled in roles and 
really bought into the team concept. ” 
The Tritons will be back in action 
Friday, Feb. 19 at Triton Ballpark 
with another nonconference series 
against Concordia Irvine. First pitch 
is set for 6 p.m.BASEBALL
Baseball Wins Five Games Over the Weekend, Improving to 7-1
Tritons earn four wins versus UT Permian Basin while splitting doubleheader against Cal State San Bernardino, play Concordia Irvine next.
BY   Sa m a n t h a   G l a n t z
Readers can contact
Samantha  Glantz     
The day ended with UCSD women 
leading with 1126.5 points with their 
closest competitor Pepperdine far 
away at 763.5, and the UCSD men 
ended the day on smaller marginal 
lead, as they led with 1103 points 
and UCSC followed with 937. 
For the second year in a row, 
Wylder won the 100-yard butterfly, 
breaking both the conference and 
school record as he finished with 
a time of 46.97 in the morning 
preliminary and a time of 47.88 in 
the final. The PCSC record (47.91) 
hadn’t been broken in the past 
16 years; this also cleared him to 
participate in the upcoming NCAA 
Championships as an A cut. 
The women’s 400 medley team, 
Tang, Phetbenjakul, sophomore 
Jayna Wittenbrink and Daley, broke 
the PCSC and UCSD record with a 
first-place finish of 3:43.38. Watkins 
placed first in the women’s 200 free 
with a time of 1:50.04, Cohn finished 
first in the men’s 200 free with a 
time of 1:37.43, and sophomore CJ 
Pais finished first in the men’s 100 
backstroke with a time of 49.73.
Redshirt freshman Grant 
Crawford placed second in the men’s 
one-meter springboard competition 
with a personal-best score of 257.85 
from six dives. Senior Garet Webster was able to end his four-year Triton 
diving career as he placed in fourth 
with a score of 214.65.
Monday saw the conclusion of 
the 2016 PCSC Championships, as 
the UCSD swimming and diving 
team came through with more 
amazing performances to win their 
eighth consecutive title in both the 
men’s and women’s divisions. The 
UCSD women’s squad finished at 
the top with 1573.5, winning by 
a margin of almost 500 points. 
Meanwhile, the UCSD men’s squad 
won with 1592 points, with UCSC 
being the runner-up for the second 
year in a row at 1268.
The Tritons altogether broke and 
set 12 new records over the span of 
the four-day PCSC Championships. 
Among the accolades awarded, 
Cohn was awarded the PCSC Male 
Swimmer of the Meet and coaches 
Corrie Falcon and Daniel Perdew 
were awarded the women’s and 
men’s coaches of the meet awards. 
Cohn finished the 200 backstroke 
with a time of 1:44.92, winning the 
event two years in a row, breaking 
the school record (1:45.85) he had 
set himself last March during his 
first NCAA Championships. He also 
broke the previous PCSC record 
(1:46.09), which was untouched for 
16 years, and automatically qualified himself for the upcoming NCAA 
championships. Finally, Cohn ended 
the meet with three individual wins 
in the 500 free, the 200 free and the 
200 backstroke, having broken the 
school record for the last two events.
Watkins won the 200 butterfly 
with 2:01.33 and her preliminary 
swim time of 2:00.07 broke UCSD 
legend Alex Henley’s school record 
of 2:00.08, also automatically 
qualifying her for the upcoming 
NCAA championships.
The women’s 400 free relay, 
consisting of Tang, Huttner, 
Watkins, and Daley, finished first 
with a time of 3:23.10, breaking the 
PCSC record (3:23.20) and UCSD’s 
previous record from the 2012 
NCAA championships (3.23:42). 
Daley ended the meet having broken 
the school records for the 50 and 
100 free. 
Hamza won her third individual 
title in the mile alongside her wins 
in the 1000 free and 500 free while 
Toronczak won the 200 backstroke 
again with a time of 1:59.41. The 
men’s squad swept the 1650 as 
Nadler (15:48.71) took first place, 
Pourvahidi (15:51.93) finished 
second, and Mitrushina (15:57.58) 
finished third. 
“It was a blast swimming for this 
team and with my teammates one 
last time, ” an emotional Leung told 
the UCSD Guardian. “To end my 
career with such an amazing group 
and another conference win was a 
great way to go out. ”
After winning the PCSC 
Championships for the eighth year 
in a row, the Tritons now await 
the official announcement of the 
qualifiers for the 2016 NCAA 
Division II Championships, which 
will be held on March 8-12. 
readers can contactReaders can contact
Daniel Hernandez   dah043@ucsd.edu      Swim and Dive Await Division II NCAA’s Official Announcement Softball Hits the Road to Carson Next 
▶ SWIM,  from page 12 ▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12
Gurkira t  Singh    PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANOver this past President’s Day weekend, from Friday, Feb. 5 to Monday 
Feb. 15, the UCSD swimming and diving team competed and won 
the Pacific Collegiate Swimming and Diving Conference (PCSC) 
Championships in both the men’s and women’s divisions while breaking 12 
school records and having some Tritons qualify for the 2016 NCAA Division 
II Championships. This is the eighth consecutive year the Tritons win the 
PCSC Championships.
“Four years of blood, sweat and tears have culminated in the best meet 
of our lives, with many champions and 12 school records broken, ” Senior 
Captain Cole Heale told the UCSD Guardian. 
The Tritons started off the PCSC Championships on Friday with a bang 
as they were able to sweep all six swimming events, while breaking multiple 
meet records, including three of four relays; this let both the men and 
women’s squads end the day with top standings in four of 21 events for each 
division. From a 10-team competition field, the women’s squad ended the 
day in first place with 307 points with the closest competition in Pepperdine 
with 243 points. The men’s squad also ended the day in the first field but with 
a smaller competition pool of four other teams. 
Since the event was first added into the Championships three years ago, 
the Tritons were able to completely dominate the 1000-yard freestyle. First-
time conference champion sophomore Haley Hamza won the event with a 
10:07.00 for the women’s event and, for the men’s event, junior Chandler 
Pourvahidi won the event with a 9:09.42 time for the second time during 
the event. Hamza was followed by freshman Reagan Eickert and the 2015 
champion sophomore Stephanie Sin for the second and third place finishes. 
On the men’s side, Pourvahidi was followed by the 2014 champion senior 
Kyle Nadler and junior Sasha Mitrushina. Hamza is now currently ranked 
second in all-time following Sin’s 2015 record (10:03.22); Pourvahidi finished 
with a personal record and second in the Triton’s all-time record. 
Also, the Tritons sweeped the 800 free relay races for the sixth year in a 
row behind sophomore Julia Toronczak, senior Maddy Huttner, redshirt-
senior Dari Watkins, and junior co-captain Natalie Tang finishing off at 
7:20.17, breaking the previous school record of 7:22.00 from the 2015 NCAA 
Championships. The foursome’s trip to Indianapolis, IN is booked for next 
month, as the win was the first automatic NCAA qualifier for UCSD swimmers. 
The men’s 800 relay was even more impressive as they recorded a time of 6:35.00, which shattered the school record for the second time this 
season; they had previously brought in a 6:36.37 time beat the record back 
in November’s A3 Performance Invitational. The group of men that broke 
both records has remained the same and consists of junior Michael Cohn, 
Pourvahidi, and seniors Michael Leung and Paul Li. Not only did they finish 
16 seconds ahead of the closest competing relay but Cohn was able to bring 
in a leadoff split of 1:37.39, breaking the previous record which has been 
untouched since 2009. 
The following Saturday dawned and ended with another great 
performance from the Triton’s squads as they brought in seven more wins 
that day to remain first in the standings. The women’s squad ended the day 
with 749.5 points and the men’s squad ended the day with 652. Their closest 
competitors were Pepperdine (487.5) and UC Santa Cruz (525), respectively.
The Tritons were able to sweep the 500-yard freestyle, 50 free and the 
200 free relay for both squads. Along with these wins, freshman Garret Tse, 
who won his first conference crown in the 200 individual medley, set a new 
meet record with 1:49.60, which actually beat one of UCSD’s most esteemed 
former swimmers Kurt Boehm’s record of 1:49.71 which has not been broken 
since 2005.
Hamza won again on Saturday with a first place finish in the 500 free, 
recording a time of 4:59.32, with Sin bringing the third spot with an 
incredibly close time of 5:00.37. Cohn finished the men’s 500 free first with 
a time of 4:27.46 and Pourvahidi came in a second with a time of 4:29.73. In 
the 50 free, senior captain Colleen Daley came in first with 23.05, followed 
by Tang (23.36) for second place and sophomore Angie Phetbenjakul (23.48) 
for third place. For the men’s squad, Heale finished sprinted first with a time 
of 20.30. 
The men won the 200 free relay with 1:22.36, winning by over a full 
second; the team was comprised of Heale, sophomore Kevin Wylder, Leung, 
and junior Julian Jacobs. In addition, the women won their relay, setting a 
meet-record time of 1:32.40; the team was comprised of Tang, Phetbenjakul, 
sophomore Haley Murphy and Daley. 
On Sunday, the third day of the PCSC Championships, the Tritons 
performed just as exceptionally, producing more titles and broken records. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UCSD softball team played 
a total of six games in four days, 
including a four-game series against 
Cal State Stanislaus that began on 
Friday and carried into Saturday, 
followed by a doubleheader against 
Adelphi University on Monday 
afternoon. The Tritons were also 
able to rack up five wins out of the 
six games, which included sweeping 
the four-game series in dominant 
fashion, continuing their strong 
start to the season. UCSD now holds 
a 10–2 overall record and is 4–0 in 
conference play.  
Game One vs. Stanislaus
The Tritons had their best overall 
performance of the season in the first 
game out of four against Stanislaus. 
UCSD batted in a miraculous 14 
runs after just two innings of the 
game and put up three more on 
the board later in the bottom of the 
fourth. Stanislaus had no answers 
and was shutout 17–0.In the first inning, senior catcher 
Emma Schneider contributed a 
three-run home run to give UCSD a 
strong start to the game. Afterwards 
in the second, as part of the 10-
run inning, Schneider brought in 
two more runs as the bases were 
loaded to bring her RBI total to 
five. Sophomore outfielder Kendall 
Woken similarly batted in two runs 
with a single to right field. 
Senior lefty pitcher Lexi Edwards 
continued her winning ways, as she 
is now 3–0 for the season and only 
gave up two hits, striking out four 
while on the mound. Also, junior 
lefty pitcher Milana Casillas made 
her debut as a Triton pitching in 
relief during the fifth.
Game Two
In a much more competitive 
game, UCSD grinded out a 5–4 
victory due to late-game heroics by 
sophomore first base Sam Glantz 
and Schneider.UCSD, after taking the early 
advantage in the first inning 
through sophomore outfielder 
Kelsi Maday’s solo home run, fell 
behind in the second by allowing 
three runs. Going into the bottom 
of the seventh, the Tritons were only 
down by one at 4–3; Glantz then 
came up to the plate to bat and hit 
a single down the middle to bring in 
freshman outfielder Erin Lipelt and 
tie up the game. Schneider seized 
the opportunity in the eighth inning 
and won the game for UCSD as she 
cleverly bunted the ball to help bring 
in Maday in walk-off fashion.
Freshman pitcher Lauren Brown, 
earned her third win of the season as 
she pitched 6.2 innings in relief with 
one strikeout.
Game Three
On Saturday afternoon, the 
Tritons began their second 
doubleheader against Stanislaus, 
and after being down early were able to recover and take yet another 
victory with a 8–4 scoreline. 
Maday got the Tritons an early 
lead in the first, hitting a double 
to left center field. However, the 
Warriors came back in the following 
inning through junior outfielder 
Cassidy Duke’s two-run home run 
to take the lead.
From there on, UCSD took 
control of the game as the team 
brought in three runs in each of the 
fourth and fifth innings to put the 
game out of question. Freshman 
shortstop Maddy Lewis contributed 
with a RBI double and senior 
outfielder Taylor Ayeta with a RBI 
single in the fourth.  
In the fifth, the Tritons broadened 
their lead as sophomore catcher 
Lauren Sanders batted in Maday and 
senior shortstop McKenna Clewett 
hit a RBI double to make it 7–2 at 
the end of the inning.  
Stanislaus attempted a comeback through a second two-run home run 
from Duke in the sixth, but it was 
too late, as UCSD added another run 
in response to give itself a 8–4 win. 
Edwards earned her second win of 
the series with three strikeouts.
Game Four
Similar to the first game of the 
series, the Tritons displayed their 
dominance early and fast.  After 
the second inning, the game had a 
UCSD win written all over it as it led 
11–1.
To start, Maday tripled in the 
first inning to bring in Kendall 
Baker. Then, Schneider followed 
it with single to center to bat in 
another run.
The Warriors self-destructed in 
the second as they produced two 
errors and five walks in which the 
Tritons took full advantage and 
scored nine in the inning. Sanders Swim and Dive Break Twelve Records
Tritons qualify for the NCAA Division II Championships and win the 
PCSC tournament for the eighth year in a row
week  in
summar y
SWI M
UCSD
UCSD1592 pts
1573.5 pts1st 
1st
SOFTBALL
BASEBALL0 4 4 2
6 1 37 0 
8 1
217 5 8 11
7 8 56 13
2 9 
6Stanislaus
UT-Permian BasinAdelphi
Cal State San Bernardino
Cal Poly PomonaUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
UCSDWritten by Gurkirat Singh// Senior StaffWriter
Photo by Megan Lee 
SOFTBALL
Softball Sweeps Cal State Stanislaus, Splits Two Games vs. Adelphi
UCSD improves record to 10-2 on the season, will play a road series versus Cal State Dominguez Hills in Carson from Feb. 19-20 next.UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMESW. Basketball
M. Basketball
Softball
M. Volleyball
Fencing  2/18
  2/18
  2/19
  2/19
2/20AT Cal State San Marcos
AT Cal State San Marcos
AT Cal State Dominguez Hills
AT Cal State Northridge
AT IFCSC Championships
See SOFT BALL , page 11See SWIM, page 11