VOLUME 49, ISSUE 50  MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Women’s Water Polo reclaimed Harper’s Cup this past Friday for a sudden death 6-5 victory over SDSU. 
Photo by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian 
UCSD’s math department announced in March 
that all majors within the department will be 
capped, beginning Fall 2016, in an effort to keep 
upper-division math class sizes manageable and 
ensure a positive educational experience for both 
students and professors.
Students looking to transfer into the math 
department will be required to complete a set of 
prerequisite courses and maintain a minimum 
GPA of 2.5 before they can apply for the major. 
The department will admit students based on their 
GPA when they apply.
The change in the admissions process for 
the mathematics department is a result of the 
unpredicted increase in the number of students in 
the mathematics department since 2012. According 
to a statement released by the math department, 
the number of math majors increased from 572 in Fall 2012 to 1,724 in Fall 2015. 
Undergraduate Vice Chair Patrick Fitzsimmons, 
stated the 2016-2017 caps that the university has 
set for freshman and transfer students will be 
400 and 200, respectively, which is approximately 
5-percent above the number of incoming freshmen 
and transfer students they received for the 2015-
2016 academic year. In addition, there is a cap of 
250 for continuing students who are currently not 
math majors but wish to become one.
Fitzsimmons explained to the UCSD Guardian 
that the increase in the number of math majors 
at UCSD could be a result of the increase in the 
student population at UCSD, which went from 
about 29,000 in 2012 to 33,000 in 2015, according 
to UCSD’s records.
“There has also been a general increase in 
the number of students who want to pursue a 
STEM major, as well as overflow from other STEM 
majors, ” Fitzsimmons added. 
The overflow is caused by students who are not admitted to impacted majors in other departments 
and declare joint majors in the math department 
instead. Currently, in UCSD’s Mathematics 
Department, about 45 percent are Math-Computer 
Science majors, 21 percent are Applied Math majors 
and 11.5 percent are Math-Economics majors.
Fitzsimmons suggests that students that who 
are not admitted to the math major try to apply for 
majors that have a strong mathematical emphasis.
“One possible alternative (aside from other 
crowded STEM majors) would be a major/
program with a heavy mathematical emphasis; 
examples might be Cognitive Science and Physics, ” 
Fitzsimmons said in an email to the Guardian.
In addition to the majors in the math 
department, all majors within the biology, 
economics, and engineering departments are 
currently capped as well. Students Talk
Race Relations
at Panel Event
Speakers included members of 
the Afrikan Black Coalition, 
BSU and A.S. Council.
BY   R e b e c ca  C h o n g
Staff Writer
A.S. Council held a panel titled “ A 
Critical Discussion on Race, Privilege 
and Campus Climate” this past 
Friday to create a space for student 
dialogue in response to recent campus 
events, including the chalking of 
anti-immigrant sentiments around 
campus and the lack of administrative 
response. 
The event featured speakers from 
the Afrikan Black Coalition, the Black 
Alumni Council, the Black Student 
Union and A.S. Council members. 
Counselors from UCSD’s Counseling 
and Psychological Services were also 
present to support students during the 
discussion.
Executive Director of the Afrikan 
Black Coalition Salih Muhammad 
opened the event by addressing 
UCSD’s history of a problematic 
campus climate in the context of race 
relations in America. 
“Truth is, UC San Diego has a 
problem, ” Muhammad said. “But 
the problem at UC San Diego is not 
devoid or divorced from a larger 
cultural context. And that cultural 
context is a society that is founded 
on the following premise: If you are 
white, you are all right, if you are black, 
you are what’s wrong with society, 
and everyone else finds themselves 
somewhere in between. ”
Fnann Keflezighi and Allyssa 
Villanueva, members of the Black 
Alumni Council, spoke on how 
activism can be a lifelong commitment. 
Villanueva, a graduate of the class 
of 2012 and a law student at UC 
Hastings, shared her experience with 
activism during her undergraduate 
years. 
Examples of the activism she 
was a part of included the demand 
for a Black Resource Center, her 
involvement in instituting the UC System to Extend Winter Break
All UC campuses on the quarter system will extend their winter breaks 
to four weeks for the 2016–2017 school year. The vacation will now last 
from Dec. 9, 2016 to Jan. 9, 2017.
The one-week addition comes from the days of the week that New 
Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day occur on during the upcoming calendar 
year. Both holidays fall on the weekend — New Year’s Eve on a Saturday 
and New Year’s Day on Sunday — causing them to instead observe the 
academic and administrative holidays allotted on those days on Friday, 
Dec. 31, and Monday, Jan. 2, in order to give students and faculty their due 
time off. As winter quarter must start on a Monday per university policy, 
administrators pushed back the start of Winter Quarter by one week.
According to Claire Doan, UC Office of the President Media Specialist, 
given that this extended break is based on the scheduling of two nationally-
celebrated holidays, it will not be a regular occurrence, and the UC system 
will return to its normal three weeks for the 2017–2018 academic year.
Doan also explained that changing the length of the break also ensures 
that all UC campuses, both quarter-based and semester-based, have similar 
schedules throughout the academic year.
“The extended winter break is to accommodate university holidays, ” 
Doan told the UCSD Guardian. “However, we are also mindful of aligning 
the academic calendars of all campuses — both quarter-based and 
semester-based. ”Doan noted that, although some students may appreciate the added 
time off, it will not make much of a difference.
“While most students certainly welcome a longer break, I do not 
think an additional week would drastically [affect students positively or 
negatively], ” Doan said.
For some UC campuses, other important events will move dates in 
addition to those during winter break. 
Doan partially attributes this to the fact that each campus decides how 
to organize the instruction days within their quarter or semester schedules.
“[The University of California] has a policy of 146 days of instruction 
throughout the year for both the quarter and semester system, ” Doan 
said. “The different campuses decide accordingly how they want to work 
that out. ”
The finals schedule for UC Davis, another UC school under the quarter 
system, will change with the elimination of their Saturday finals and dead 
days, the Friday without instruction before the start of exams. 
Revelle College freshman Robert Ramji plans to spend more time at 
home with friends and doing other activities he was unable to complete 
this past break with the fourth week.
“I will have a lot more time to relax and enjoy the company of friends 
from home, ” Ramji told the Guardian. “I will also have time to go on the 
trips I want to and do the programming course I did not have time for over B y  Lauren Hol t   
Mathematics Department to Cap all Majors Beginning Fall 2016
Administrators will limit the number of undergraduate and transfer mathematics majors at 400 and 200 per year, respectively.See WINTER , page 3
CAMPUS
BY  P r o m i t a  N a n dy
See RACISM , page 3UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
CAPPING  MA TH
FINDING  SOLUTIONS
OPINION,  P AGe  4Old Student Center
Our student Sp aces
Fea tures, p age  6SOFTBALL
Defea ts  CSUSM
Sports,  P age  12
CAMPUS
PROMIT A NAND Y   2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson 
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “What did I do kinky this weekend? Nothing really, 
besides oatmeal.” — Quinn reciting Tina from earlier today.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebas
DUE TO IN CREASED POLICE PRESENC E
ACCB WANTS YO U TO PLAN BEFORE YO U PARTY:
TO RE GISTE R
VISIT AS.UCSD.ED U/SAFERIDES  
FOR MO RE INFO CALL (619) 564 7998
CON TACT ACCB VIA UCSDAC CB@GMAIL. COMThe International Society of 
Infectious Diseases keeps track 
of current disease outbreaks via 
ProMED-mail, an online database 
that reports flare-ups of infectious 
diseases and human exposures 
to acute toxins when they occur. 
Scrolling through the ever-changing 
list of ProMED, an acronym for 
the Program for Monitoring 
Infectious Diseases, you’ll find a 
mix of obscure names and vaguely 
familiar ones — outbreaks that have 
received heavy media coverage or 
extensive attention in college science 
textbooks. But there’s one alarming 
disease that continues to pop up on 
the list, having appeared in Albertan 
herds of beef cattle just last Monday 
and rural districts within the country 
of Kyrgyzstan on April 15. 
Anthrax, an infection caused 
by the bacteria Bacillus anthracis, 
gets an especially bad rap despite 
its incidences of infection being 
relatively common. The deadly 
disease we associate with anthrax 
today heavily derives from the 
bacteria’s recent weaponization. Its 
spores can survive anywhere and 
for long periods of time; in soil, 
they can remain viable for up to 48 
years. On top of that, the bacteria is 
very difficult to destroy, and those 
looking to kill spores must turn 
to heat and chemicals instead of 
ineffective disinfectants. Anthrax’s 
incredible durability makes it 
an outstanding candidate for bioterrorism, a fear realized in the 
2001 anthrax attacks. Also known by 
the FBI case name, Amerithrax, the 
attacks resulted in five deaths and 17 
infections after anthrax spores were 
mailed to five U.S. news offices and 
two Democratic senators. It’s the 
bacteria’s role in bioterrorism that 
makes the odorless, invisible spores 
all the more terrifying; even the 
military perceives anthrax as the most 
dangerous source of bioweaponry. 
The bacteria can be collected in 
the form of powder, liquid or paste 
but are most dangerous in their 
weaponized form; as an aerosol, 
the spores can be inhaled deep into 
the lungs. Once the bacteria have 
made their way into the body, they 
become activated, multiplying and 
producing fatal doses of toxins. 
Although attacks like these 
are rare and prompt very serious 
responses, the disease itself isn’t all 
that uncommon. While rare in the 
U.S., the rod-shaped bacteria are 
frequently detected in developing 
countries and exposure to spores 
doesn’t always lead to death. 
Anthrax is found naturally in 
soil and infects animals when 
they ingest or inhale the spores; 
humans can become infected when 
they come into contact with these 
contaminated soils or animals. 
Routine vaccination, however, can 
prevent animals from becoming 
infected, which can in turn protect 
humans from developing the illness. 
Consequently, the highest number 
of outbreaks occurs in countries 
lacking veterinary health programs to carry out these vaccinations, 
particularly in agricultural regions 
in Central and South America, 
central and southwest Asia, southern 
and eastern Europe, the Caribbean 
and sub-Saharan Africa. 
The type of illness you can 
develop from anthrax depends on 
how it enters your body: skin contact, 
ingestion, inhalation and injection. 
Cutaneous anthrax occurs when the 
spores come in contact with the skin; 
it is the most common and least 
dangerous. Inhalation, however, 
is the most deadly form, and is 
consequently the manifestation 
favored in developing anthrax as a 
bioweapon. Though each form has 
a different set of symptoms, those of 
the more serious forms can resemble 
the flu: nausea and vomiting, fever 
and chills, and headaches. 
Because of its deadly reputation 
following the attacks, anthrax gained 
significant scientific attention 
from those looking to understand 
its mechanism of infection. Here 
at UCSD, scientists focused on the 
body’s immune response to the 
bacterial infection by examining 
the key emergency signals it sends 
out when under attack. In the June 
2011 issue of Immunity, UCSD 
scientists, in collaboration with 
researchers from the Skaggs School 
of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, published a study detailing 
these emergency responses. The first 
signal occurs as soon as a single cell 
is infected; that cell sends signals 
to immune cells, which continue 
to alert other cells. Next, the alarm molecule is adenosine triphosphate, 
or ATP , a common molecule used to 
transport energy in living organisms. 
The release of ATP from an infected 
cell prompts the construction of 
inflammasomes, which release 
immune activating molecules into 
the bloodstream. These molecules 
continue to alert cells, prompting 
them to build immunity to the 
invading bacteria.    
Current treatments for anthrax 
are extensive, aggressive and must be 
administered early after diagnosis. 
Researchers are looking to improve 
treatment methods because the 
weaponization of anthrax continues 
to pose a very real threat. If altered to 
penetrate the lungs more efficiently, 
the already deadly disease could 
become even more dangerous and 
difficult to treat. But the unaltered 
source of the fine powder we’ve 
come to associate with terrorism 
occurs throughout the natural 
world, frequently infecting grazing 
herbivores which occasionally poses 
a risk to human lives. Yes, it’s a 
bacterial marvel in the sense that it’s 
incredibly durable, but the mention 
of anthrax may not always be the 
death sentence we’ve made it out 
to be. Pull up the latest case — 
April 21 — of anthrax on ProMED-
mail and you’ll read about infected 
cattle in Argentina; the infectious, 
indestructible spores we know 
through media and government 
warnings may be terrifying, but their 
origins are fairly ordinary.
Karl y Nisson   Anthrax Disease Remains at the Top of  Infectious Disease Lists
The bacteria is not just for weapons, as demonstrated by last week’s outbreak of the disease in Canada as well as Kyrgyzstan.
BY  K a r l y  N i s s o nSCIENCE COLUMNDiversity, Equity and Inclusion general 
education requirement and the work 
of establishing the Chicanx legacy 
mural in Thurgood Marshall College. 
She emphasized how her career choice 
is centered on the activism she learned 
and practiced while at UCSD. 
“[Activism] does not end when 
you graduate, ” Villanueva told the 
audience. “Y ou can’t be all about these 
issues [as a student] and then say ‘I 
don’t care’ once you are actually in a 
position of power. ” 
The event concluded with a 
student panel which addressed topics 
including personal experiences, what 
changes could be made and how 
students outside of these marginalized 
communities could better support 
them as allies. 
BSU intern Andre Thompson expressed how the lack of 
participation in #BlackAtUCSD, a 
social media campaign designed to 
raise awareness of and document 
the black experience at UCSD, is 
illustrative of the ambivalence of 
students on these issues. 
“There are people in positions who 
have a voice — either they’re working 
in community centers or they’re on 
campus — but a tweet that takes 
140 characters, a Facebook post that 
takes 10 seconds … it is so small, 
not time consuming, ” Thompson 
emphasized. “But the fact that there 
are a lot of students not participating 
in [#BlackAtUCSD] who said they 
were going to … it kind of shows me 
that there is a lot of fear to actually put 
themselves out there. But not knowing 
what to say is not an excuse to not say 
anything at all. ” 
BRC Student Success Leader Cambria Anderson felt that changes 
to the campus climate would require 
the administration to address a variety 
of issues. 
“I don’t really see change 
happening because it won’t benefit 
the institution [of UCSD] to do so, ” 
Anderson said. “The things that need 
to change on this campus to make it 
better would require transformation, 
not necessarily continuous reform. 
What we have now is ways to make 
black students feel more comfortable 
with dealing with the issues. I’m 
supposed to feel more comfortable 
with the racist campus climate. If 
the institution was going to truly 
change we would … do things that 
are transforming the institution rather 
than including more people into the 
mess that is the institution. ” NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTION
Understanding RAP
Responsible Action Protocol
For more information, visit http://rap.ucsd.edu1. HA, RA, or other University ofﬁcial is 
contacted
2. No other Student Conduct Violations are 
present
3. RAP hasn’t been used by the student in 
the last 2 yearsStudents receiving or initiating medical assistance 
for overconsumption of alcohol and/or drugs will 
NOT go through the formal  UC San Diego student 
conduct process if ALL of the following apply:Signs of Alcohol Poisoning
Responsive, 
but listless 
and sleepyPut them on their side, 
give water and  stay 
with them
Passed out,
but can be 
woken up 
Not responsive OR 
skin tone is bluish 
OR breathing is 
irregular (any of these)Put them on their side, 
give water and stay 
with them−
Call 911  or 
(858) 534-HELP (4357)
Take action!if anything changes,
make the call!
the last [winter] break. ”
However, Muir College freshman 
Jordan Nava told the Guardian that 
he likes having time added to his 
break, but he thinks four weeks may 
be too lengthy and would prefer it 
be kept at three weeks with another week during spring break.
“I am excited to have a four-
week break, but I feel like it is 
too much time,” Nava stated. “I 
think winter break should be three 
weeks and spring break two weeks 
because three weeks [for winter] 
and two weeks [for spring] seems like enough time to relax, but not 
long enough to lose your drive to 
work. ”Student Argues That Extra Week Should Be Added to Spring Break
Thompson: Not knowing is Not an Excuse to Not Say Anything at All
▶ CAMPUS,  from page 1▶ WINTER,  from page 1
LAUREN  HOL T   
REBECCA CHONG   
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Sunday, April 17
12:31 a.m. Welfare Check: The 
Village Place & Market
Excessive alcohol, report of two 
students passed out inside Uber 
vehicle, female student checked 
out by paramedics and released 
to roommate, male student 
transported to hospital. Report 
taken.
2:31 p.m. Information: Tamarack 
Apartments
Per Housing Assistant, resident 
reporting swarm of bees inside 
their bedroom.  Referred to other 
UCSD department.
3:50 p.m. Disturbance: La Jolla 
Playhouse
Per CSO, adult female causing 
disruption, possibly intoxicated or 
psych subject. Field interview.
7:36 p.m. Medical Aid: Price 
Center
Young adult female fell and hurt 
herself at dance.  Transported to 
hospital.
8:23 p.m. Battery: Main Gym
Basketball game between two male 
subjects turned aggressive, one 
subject punched the other causing a 
minor injury. Report taken. 
11:37 p.m. Welfare Check: Voigt 
Bridge
Adult male looking over bridge. 
Field interview. 
Monday, April 18
12:23 a.m. Hazard Situation: Villa 
La Jolla Dr/V A Hospital
Per San Diego Police, adult male 
seen throwing a log into street. 
Service provided.
9:18 to 9:27 a.m. Medical Aid: 
Library Walk
Solo bicyclist accident, medical aid refused, subject treated by Student 
Health.  Report taken.
11:14 a.m. Chemical Spill: Stein 
Clinical Research Building
Unknown chemical spilled, smells 
like a solvent.  Referred to other 
UCSD Department.
12:00 to 1:00 p.m.Annoying/
Harassing Phone Call: 
Cardiovascular Center
Report of ex‐spouse continuously 
calling victim’s place of 
employment. Report taken.
10:00 p.m. Noise Disturbance: La 
Jolla Del Sol Apartments
Vehicle with loud music.  Quiet on 
arrival.
Tuesday, April 19
6:30 a.m. to 9:07 a.m. Information: 
Geisel Library
Report of UCSD employee 
impersonating another UCSD 
employee via email. Report taken.
12:54 p.m. Information: Lot 760
Report of possible reckless driving, 
female motorist almost hit parking 
rep. Unable to locate.
9:01 p.m. Citizen Contact: Latin 
America Hall
Report of burnt food, no fire. 
Service provided.
9:04 p.m. Suspicious 
Circumstances: Geisel Library
Report of what possibly looked like 
a noose hanging from tree. Checks 
OK.
— JACKY  TO
News Editor4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See MATH , page 5The UCSD mathematics department’s recent decision to start 
capping all new math majors is another chapter in what appears to 
be a constant trend of underfunding and mismanagement among 
the UCSD administration. For those who have not already heard, 
only a limited number of students will be eligible to enter the 
math department — which includes pure mathematics, applied 
mathematics and mathematics-computer science, one of the fastest-
growing majors. Part of this is understandable — UCSD receives 
far less funding per student than it has historically received. Y et this 
is only a partial excuse for failing to explore creative solutions for 
enrolling more students into math courses. We as students need to 
hold the mathematics department accountable for failing to ensure 
that math classes are accessible to all, and we need to push the 
department toward finding new ways to increase enrollment without 
reducing the quality of the classes.
Some of the reasons why the math department has decided to 
take such an extreme step are justified by data. For Fall Quarter 2015, 
UCSD had 1685 math-department majors, significantly more than 
UCLA (989 math-related majors) or UC Davis (819 in its math-statistics department). Unfortunately, UCSD has the smallest per-
undergraduate endowment compared to these two schools (less than 
half of UCLA ’s per-undergraduate endowment) and the largest ratio 
of students to faculty, according to U.S. News. The CSE department is 
one of the worst offenders of a high student-faculty ratio, with a ratio 
of 52.7, shockingly high compared to 28.7 at UCLA and 26.1 at UC 
Davis, according to the American Society for Engineering Education 
statistics. To give the CSE department some credit, it does have a 
number of undergraduate tutors, but tutors do not have extensive 
study in computer science and, at best, they are a quick-fix band-aid 
for a serious lack of faculty.
In addition, the CSE department also shares some of the blame for 
the huge increase in math-department majors. The less-competitive 
math-CS major is commonly adopted by students who are unable to 
enter a normal CS major since the GPA requirements for entering 
are incredibly strict. Unfortunately, this has led to a whopping 211 
percent increase in the number of math-CS majors from Fall Quarter 
2014 to Fall Quarter 2015, according to official enrollment statistics. 
Comparatively, the number of total majors in the math department 
QUICK TAKESCITING ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS, STUDENTS WITHIN UCSD AND ACROSS THE UC SYSTEM HAVE CALLED FOR A BAN 
ON THE SALE OF WATER BOTTLES IN CAMPUS BUSINESSES. WILL SUCH A MEASURE ADDRESS LARGER CONCERNS?With Apple’s recent update of 
the Macbook, consumers are again 
disappointed with Apple’s progress 
or more accurately Apple’s lack of 
progress. While the updated Macbook 
now includes some new features such 
as a slightly larger battery, an updated 
processor, faster flash storage and the 
addition of a rose gold color, these 
updates don’t address the larger issues 
consumers have voiced about the 
previous generation of the Macbook. 
These two primary issues being the 
inclusion of only one USB Type C 
Port and the 480p camera. 
Companies usually address 
consumer demands, fixing problems 
their consumers have identified, but 
Apple has made zero effort to address 
these concerns. The fact that the 
newest Macbook only has one port 
means that if one wants to charge 
the laptop while having a USB flash 
drive plugged in, one has to buy a $79 
dongle that allows one to use HDMI, 
USB and USB Type C. If you want to 
plug in both a USB flash drive and 
USB Bluetooth remote to use with 
mouse, you’ll have to spend over $158 
and make your laptop look like an 
octopus with each cable.
 For an already overpriced 
ultrabook starting at $1,299 that uses 
the Intel M processor series, one can 
purchase a lighter, thinner, more 
powerful Windows laptop for less.
The newly announced HP Spectre 
boasts the title of the world’s thinnest 
laptop that utilizes the Intel Core i 
series and starts at $1169.99. The 
complacency of being an established 
brand has made Apple smug on its 
throne and diminished its drive to 
innovate. HP , on the other hand, 
faced with numerous criticisms of its 
laptops over the years, has allowed 
public and media pressure to improve 
its products, pushing laptops to new 
heights, or rather, lower heights with 
its thinness. HP’s laptop represents 
thinness without tradeoffs of 
performance and it includes multiple 
ports, 3 USB Type C ports to be 
specific. The fact that HP has been 
able to fit an HD camera into a laptop 
thinner than the Macbook raises some 
concerns on Apple’s level of innovation.
Over recent years, Apple has relied 
heavily on its brand as the primary 
marketing tool of its products. 
Already an established brand for 
innovation, we, as consumers, have 
simply come to accept any Apple 
product as innovative rather than 
subjecting each product to a level 
of scrutiny applied to new market 
products. Apple has had such 
innovative products, the iPhone and 
iPad, that we have come to deem 
any Apple product innovative. While 
its success was well deserved, it also 
doesn’t drive Apple to perform at its 
highest potential. Like a runner in a 
race who can see that he is further 
ahead of anyone else and slows down, 
Apple has been lagging over the past 
few years. However, as evidenced by 
HP , Apple’ s slowdown has meant that 
the lead is diminishing and all but gone.
If you’re in the market for a new 
laptop, reward companies taking 
bold steps to alter the way we interact 
with technology and respond to the 
feedback of users.Banning Sale of  Bottled Water on Campus is Necessary 
In Becoming A More Environmentally Conscious CampusBy Not Addressing Sales of  Plastic Cups and Bottled 
Beverages, Ban on Water Bottles Fails to Address Larger Issues
At UCSD, freshmen are greeted with open arms, words of motivation 
and water bottles in their welcome packs. While the campus is known for its 
strong commitment to sustainability, it has yet to follow hundreds of other 
environmentally-conscious campuses across the nation by neglecting to ban the 
sale of plastic water bottles. By encouraging reusability, UCSD can benefit the 
environment, save students money and, ultimately, change student culture to 
make reusable bottles the norm.
 To continue selling disposable bottles would support taking something 
that is freely accessible to everyone, privatizing it, and packaging it into a non-
reusable container. Reducing usage of plastic bottled water is a small change 
students have to make for a substantial impact. And the impact is substantial. 
According to the Ban the Bottle initiative, the Harvard School of Public Health 
has eliminated 1000 plastic bottles a week from the waste stream through 
cutting bottled water sales from its cafeteria. Using reusable bottles is a tangible, 
sustainable practice that students can get behind. With the prevalence of 
hydration stations and the availability of tap water, there should be no reason to 
buy disposable bottled water in the first place.
Critics of this issue argue that bottled water is safer than tap water. However, 
according to Dr. Gina Solomon, scientist at the Natural Resources Defense 
Council, public water is regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, 
which requires multiple daily tests and makes results publicly available. On 
the contrary, the Food and Drug Administration regulates bottled water, and 
it requires significantly less testing and does not share its findings with the 
EPA or public. Even if some do not like the taste of tap water, water filters 
are convenient, safe alternatives. In addition, some contend that since plastic 
bottles are recyclable, they are environmentally friendly. Y et, as stated by 
Ban the Bottle, the average recycling rate for plastic in the U.S. is 23 percent. 
Recycling is not a common practice, and, even still, it certainly does not take 
precedence to reusing bottles.
Despite criticisms, movements on college campus to ban bottled water have 
been gaining significant traction across the country. Through supporting this 
initiative, UCSD would be reforming opinions to make reusable bottles more 
pervasive and taking profound steps toward protecting the environment.
             — AARTHI VENKAT
Staff WriterWhile well-intended and environmentally friendly, the proposed banning 
of plastic bottles at HDH markets is hypocritical and ineffective in solving the 
larger issue of plastic waste at UCSD. First, the proposed banning of plastic 
bottles would only apply to bottled water, which would exclude plastic cups 
used at the HDH markets for the sale of coffee, smoothies, and soft drinks. 
The continued sale of plastic cups diminishes any marginal positive impact 
of banning the sale of water plastic bottles. Why HDH remains exempt from 
the environmental standards it enforces upon bottled water manufacturers is 
probably because it’s easier to direct attention to other’s faults than address one’s 
own. Second, the purchase of plastic bottled water is often one out of desperate 
need. With the plethora of bottled soft drinks and sugar filled juices, water is 
the healthiest alternative to these bottled drinks. An individual looking for an 
on-the-go drink may choose a bottled soda in the event he or she does not 
have a water bottle than a bottle of water. The need for a single-use container of 
water is still needed as an emergency alternative for those who forget to bring 
their bottles of water and regardless of whether bottled water is still available, 
people can still choose to purchase other bottled drinks, thus diminishing 
any impact of banning bottled water. Third, plastic water bottles are reused 
by certain individuals and used for DIY projects for others. A simple Google 
search of “DIY Projects with plastic bottles” brings up a plethora of lists and 
ideas ranging from how to decorate one’s room to functional life hacks.
More effective alternatives include replacing all the plastic cups the HDH 
uses to serve coffee and smoothies with a recyclable paper alternative, replacing 
all the bottled plastic drinks at the halls with a more eco-friendly alternative 
container, and raising the price of bottled drinks to encourage individuals to 
use reusable water bottles. Even cans, paper cartons,  and glass containers are 
more easily recycled than their plastic counterparts. Recently, a company called 
Ooho! has been working on an edible seaweed based gelatin like container 
for water. While it’s not being sold yet, it certainly indicates a positive trend of 
environmentalism. 
While the initiative to ban plastic water bottles expresses a well-intentioned 
desire to limit the impact humans have upon the environment, this specific 
initiative is flawed and ought to be done more impactfully.
                                 — ALEXANDER CHEN
                             Staff WriterThe math department’s capping of  all majors 
seems to be a temporary solution for a lasting 
problem. This is only further exacerbated by 
lackluster funding for the department.
BY NATHAN  WALKER // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
EXTRANEOUS  
SOLUTIONS  
ALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
An Apple A 
Day Keeps 
Innovation 
Away
FOR   REAL  
FUNDING 
 ISSUESOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
(excluding math-CS) grew only 
31 percent during that same time 
period, with some majors, such as 
math-secondary education or math-
applied science, remaining mostly 
constant. The computer-science 
major, however, only grew at a rate 
of 10 percent during this same time, 
since the CSE department strictly 
controls who enters the major. If the 
computer-science department had 
done more to enroll more students 
in its classes, the math department 
would likely not face an unfair 
burden to make up for the computer-
science department’s failures. Both the computer-science and 
mathematics departments should 
begin to explore innovative ways to 
enroll more students. One possible 
solution is to increase online learning 
for some of the larger classes, but this 
often leads to a decrease in quality. 
Online learning, when done right 
and combined with numerous office 
hours and tutoring sessions, can be 
very effective at teaching students, 
yet there currently exists no such 
programs within the UCSD math 
or computer-science departments. 
The math and computer-science 
departments could easily create 
a system in which students 
interactively learn the material through online media. Students can 
then come into section and lecture 
for additional help or practice.
Another option is to make 
discussion sections more critical 
to the course. Currently, the vast 
majority of math and computer-
science discussion sections are 
optional and designed for reviewing 
lecture material and helping 
struggling students. While this 
is indeed important, teaching 
assistants could teach new material 
during discussion section and 
encourage struggling students 
to visit during office hours. This 
would reduce the workload on 
any individual professor and allow them to educate more students 
without sacrificing quality. Of 
course, the best solution to solving 
over-enrollment would be to simply 
hire more professors, but given 
UCSD’s diminished budget and 
lack of attention to undergraduate 
education, this is unlikely to happen 
any time soon.
However, the math department 
is unlikely to pursue these potential 
solutions without any impetus 
from the undergraduate body. So 
far, student reaction to the math 
department’s announcement has 
largely been resigned irritation, 
not passionate outrage. Capping 
a group of majors should be seen as an absolute last-ditch scenario 
and something to only be tried 
once other structural changes 
have been made. In this case, 
it is not apparent that the math 
department has even attempted, let 
alone implemented, any possible 
solutions for mitigating the large 
number of interested students. We 
as students need to step up and 
protest this decision, otherwise the 
administration will continue to act 
against our interests and against the 
quality of our education. 
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now readyLearn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856To  K e e p  M a j o rs  a n d  C l a s s e s  A c c e s s i bl e,  M a t h  D e p a r t m e n t  M u s t  U t i l i ze  R e s o u rc e s  a n d  I n t ro d u c e  L a s t i n g  S o l u t i o n s  t o  O v e rc ro w d i n g
▶ MATH  from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
NA THAN  W ALKER NWALKER@UCSD.EDU
PERCENT AGE  of 
undergradua tes.9
.8
.7
.6
.5
.4
.3
.2
.1
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016W         S         F W         S         F W          S          F W         S         F W      Year  &  QUARTERGrowth  of  Ma th-Computer  scienence  
MAJORS  Among   Ma th   Dep artment
PERCENT AGE  of 
undergradua tes.9
.8
.7
.6
.5
.4
.3
.2
.1
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016W         S         F W         S         F W          S          F W         S         F W      Year  &  QUARTERGrowth  of  Ma th-Computer science  
MAJORS  Among  CS  DERIV A TIVES
DATA VISUALIZATION BY MIGUEL SHEKER6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
KSDT
Written by Dominic Spencer // Contributing Writer
KSDT, the UCSD radio station, has been around since 1967, with its current incarnation streaming over the internet. Priding itself on 
promoting “fiercely independent music, ” the radio showcases up-and-coming San Diego bands and artists that one wouldn’t find in the 
mainstream music industry.
“KSDT allows me to stay connected to my cultural roots with my show that is rock-based Spanish language music, ” Lucy Lopez, a Revelle 
College junior and DJ, told the UCSD Guardian. 
KSDT doesn’t just produce radio shows — it also contains in-house studio facilities providing valuable practice space for undiscovered area bands 
and UCSD students. Practice spaces can be reserved throughout the quarter for scheduled weekly sessions. 
“There is so much creativity behind the scenes, with the no-strings attached band times, ” Lopez said, as a drummer practiced in the back room. 
Additionally, KSDT hosts approve acts for live studio sessions and boasts contacts within the music industry. 
“It’s also a medium that I use to stay connected with my friends that live far away and make new friends that I invite to be on the show, ” DJ and Revelle 
sophomore Rachel Smith said. 
The UCSD radio station is a vestibule for music and culture, which can be just as important to a top-ranked research university as STEM. Student 
organizations like KSDT represent the balance of arts and education at this university. 
“The station should be a space for all UCSD students … a resource, or even just a bunch of cool people in a room with some records, ” DJ coordinator and 
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Stacey Grinberg said. As such, the radio station fosters an appreciation for music in all students. 
The UCSD radio station is located in the Old Student Center, across from Groundwork Books. Streaming is available at ksdt.ucsd.edu. Take a listen, and get 
to know your student radio station. Y ou’ll be glad you did.Groundwork Books Collective
Written by Robin Deng // Contributing Writer  
As the first student-run co-op opened in 1973 in UCSD’s Original Student Center, the Groundwork 
Books Collective is not only a bookstore selling books about social theories, but also a center 
for students to promote their ideals and organize activities. Since its inception, Groundworks has been a 
non-profit, political bookstore and resource center providing intellectual and practical support for promoting social change.
Fabiola Orozco, a fourth-year Muir College student and Groundwork Books collective member, told the UCSD Guardian that the space allows 
students to  engage in activism through discussions.
   “We may now have a smaller market of selling our socialism books as a bookstore, but Groundwork has become more of a good place for 
students to study, hang out, watch movies together and in general, have real social interactions, ” Orozco said. “ And we are also an information resource 
center for students who are interested in organizing something themselves” .
Groundwork sells heavily-discounted books and regularly offers book-trading program. In terms of social events, Groundwork holds a movie 
screening every Friday night and plans to invite activist folk singers as guests to its meetings this quarter. As an organization rooted in activism, 
Groundwork is very involved at UCSD and serves as an organizer for demonstrations. For its own campaign, Books for Prisoners, Groundwork 
receives financial and book donations and hosts a packaging party each quarter before they send out books to each prison. FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Located in Muir College between Mandeville Hall and Main Gym, the Original Student Center is home to a variety of student organizations and 
unique places to hang out. Until Price Center was completed in 1989, the Original Student Center served as the primary place for UCSD students 
to get together and form a community. From the vegan meals at the Food Co-op to the vinyl records at the General Store, the center offers amenities 
that cannot be found anywhere else on campus. Though its popularity has been eclipsed by Price Center, the Original Student Center is still a place 
worth visiting for a more authentic, student-run experience.For Students, By Students
Veteran’s Resource Center
Written by Oliver Kelton // Associate Features Editor
Located on the second floor of the Old 
Student Center, right above the Food Co-op 
and the G-Store, is the Student Veterans’ 
Resource Center.  Founded in 2013, it is 
the university’s newest Resource Center.  
Come inside and you’ll find more than just 
a facility: Y ou’ll find a close knit family of 
former servicemen and women.
“I like to call this my second home, 
because that’s how I treat it, ” Revelle Senior 
and Navy veteran Chris Go told the Guardian.  “Y ou develop 
a community here. Y ou start off slow, you come inside here, you 
introduce yourself and you kind of get milled into the group.  Eventually 
you just get immersed in the culture - that’s what it is, we’re a culture. ”
College life is very different for veterans than it is for most undergraduates.  Having begun college 
later in life, many veterans already have families and homes of their own, not to mention a wealth of life 
experiences from their time in the military.  The Veteran’s Resource Center introduces them to people 
who they can relate to, as well as providing valuable services such as help with navigating financial aid and 
mental health treatment through CAPS.  Though it was created for veterans, the Center and its members 
welcome other students to come in as well and learn about their community.
The Food Co-op
Written by Noam Leead // Contributing Writer
Hours: Mon. to Thu.: 9:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
             Fri: 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
The Food Co-op is a student-owned and student-run cooperative, established in 1978, that serves vegan food and vegetarian snacks. Committed to providing the student population with healthy, 
sustainable and humane food options, the Co-op buys organic and locally sourced produce as often as possible. The place itself is relatively small but elaborately decorated, offering comfortable 
seating and playing calming alternative music. In addition to providing a holistic and soothing space, the Food Co-op welcomes volunteers and fosters a friendly working environment to employees. 
“It’s a very open community and nobody is telling you what to do, ” third year ERC student and Food Co-op manager Kyle Park told the UCSD Guardian. “There’s not an inherent hierarchy, per se. 
We’re all students, so we cooperate, hence the word ‘co-op’ , to run this business even though we’re full time students and we have busy schedules. It’s different than working for a dining hall. Even if 
you’re preparing food there, the mission and the culture around [it] is a lot different than over here. ”Student 
Veteran’s 
Resource 
Center
Groundwork 
Books Co-opWomen’s Center
KSDT 
Radio 
StationIllustration by Christina Carlson FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Women’s Center
Written by Allison Kubo // Features Editor
Situated above Hi Thai, the Women’s Center provides a 
variety of resources for students, such as a library of feminist 
texts and books focusing on gender, a study space, meeting 
room, and a shower and bathroom. In addition to the 
facilities, the Center also hosts events, including the Weekly 
Gender Buffet, which tackles different topics through the lens 
of gender, movie screenings, such as the film “F-Word’ , and 
a Life Skills Series. Their meeting rooms are also available for student 
organizations to reserve through their website which is fittingly 
dubbed, women.ucsd.edu.
However, according to Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore and current Social Justice Peer educator 
Tara Vahdani, the Center furnishes a crucial space 
to discuss, and perhaps escape, the gendered 
nature of academia. 
“Because of [the gendered nature of 
academia], I think it is challenging for many 
women to develop a sense of belonging if few 
of their classmates and teachers are women-
identified, ” Vahdani told the Guardian. “With 
microaggressions prevalent, and even instances 
of overt sexism, this Center helps students as they 
navigate their day-to-day lives. I love being a Peer Educator 
because it has allowed me to facilitate conversations that help 
others think critically in this way, and thus more consciously 
navigate their lives. ”The General Store Co-op
Written by Noam Leead // Contributing Writer
Hours: Mon. to Thu.: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Fri.: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Sat.: 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
According to their website, the General Store Co-op, also known as the G-Store, was established in 1980 in order to 
assist UCSD students find and purchase items at a reasonable price. Like the Food Co-op, the G-Store is run by students for 
students, functioning as a non-profit business. Besides generic market items like snacks and soda, the G-Store sells school 
supplies and enables students to buy and sell their textbooks. The store also has a very laid back vibe, with lounging couches, 
video games, vinyls and a piano that students can play. Offering occasional Nintendo tournaments and open mic nights, the 
G-Store provides a unique place for customers and employees to enjoy and get their creative juices flowing. 
“Working in a co-op, there are so many different points of views and perspectives that you get, ” second year Marshall 
student and employee Jordan Packer told the Guardian. “Because we 
collaborate and come together once a week to talk about any issue we 
have, we are regularly hearing each other's opinions on things. ” 
Both the Food Co-op and the General Store Co-op continuously 
work to provide alternative options and enjoyable spaces to students 
on campus. Interestingly, both Co-ops voiced to the Guardian that not 
many people know about them or what they have to offer, but they hope 
to change this with time.A.S. Lecture Notes
Written by James Lommer // Staff Writer
As the name implies, A.S. Lecture Notes is a service that provides 
UCSD students with comprehensive lecture notes from current classes 
they may be taking. These notes provide a breakdown of the content 
covered in class and let students turn their attention to other components 
of the lecture.
As their website states, “Lecture Notes provide another dimension to 
the learning process by allowing students to focus on the audio and visual parts of the 
lecture rather than preparing endless transcripts. ” 
A.S. Lecture Notes can be a valuable resource in successfully studying for classes. 
While the notes are often thorough and concise, however, it is important to understand 
how to best utilize them. The difficulty of a particular class and the importance of the class relative to others are among 
many factors to consider. Subscription costs for the service vary by week. Notes from weeks 2–4 are $29 and from weeks 5–9 
cost $34. During week 10, individual sets are sold for $4 each. These pricing plans can be beneficial in instances in which 
you’re unable to make it to a certain lecture and there are gaps in notes of your own that you’ d like to make whole, or you 
want more information to reference while studying for finals.
LGBT Resource Center 
Written by Alvin Chan // Staff Writer
According to their website, the LGBT Resource center is, “a diverse, open and public space for all students of the university community to explore issues relating to sexual and gender identities, 
practices and policies. ” In addition to serving the LGBT community and promoting intersectionality, the center is also a space for students to study, hang out and eat.
Last week, the resource center hosted Out and Proud Week, a week-long celebration of community visibility for LGBT students. One of the Center’s events was a community vigil held last 
Wednesday, a time for students to reflect on issues that affect the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex community, as well as for all students to express feelings and speak current events.
As inclusive as UCSD may be with these events, the Center chooses to be even more forward-thinking in their embrace of inclusivity.
“The first time I went in, I was asked for my pronouns, ” frequent visitor Jane*, an Earl Warren College sophomore said. “I’ve always felt comfortable relaxing in the Center between classes, and 
their library has books on a lot of different queer topics that are interesting to go through. Overall, it’s a very welcoming environment. ” 
The center also offers volunteer and intern positions to contribute to the LGBTQIA+ movement as well as represent the Center on campus.
*Name changed to protect privacy
See STUDENT CENTER , page 8LGBT Resource Center
UCSD 
Bike 
ShopTriton 
TVThe Stage
(Formerly Porter’s Pub)Black 
Resource 
Center
General 
Store Co-opGSA LoungeA.S. Lecture Notes
Food Co-op
Black Resource Center
Written by Matthew Zamudio // Staff Writer
Like many establishments throughout U.S. history that addressed the needs of the black community, the Black Resource Center was born out of relentless advocacy and demands from student 
activists. While students had voiced demands for a space like BRC since the university’s inception, it wasn’t until the black student population was directly attacked by racially motivated events during 
the 2010 Winter quarter that the administration felt it necessary to erect the space. Opened in 2013, BRC is a community center which serves the entire population at UCSD while emphasizing the 
black experience in particular through a variety of workshops and informative programs.. 
“It’s a place where you feel a sense of family and acceptance, ” Sarah*, a regular at BRC, told the Guardian. “If you feel you can’t go anywhere else on campus, you can definitely come here. ” 
According to their website, the fundamental goal of BRC is to celebrate cultural diversity and “the development of the whole person. ” Staff and affiliates of BRC not only meet this tall order, but 
exceed it by welcoming every UCSD student with open arms. They offer several programs including The Black Men’s Collective, an informal bi-weekly discussion night, the Student Success Institute, 
where incoming students can learn about campus resources, and the Black Graduation Ceremony, a pre-commencement celebration to honor African and African American students. Aside from BRC 
being a much needed safe space on campus, Sarah explains that by coming to BRC one is sure to gain knowledge and understanding about Black culture, among other things.
“ A lot of people are ignorant to what blackness is about, ” Sarah said.  “Y ou would learn a lot about where we come from and the different intersectionalities. ”
 Offering study rooms, computers, comfortable couches and much, much more, BRC  is a place free from judgment and very inclusive where the underrepresented students find their 
collective voice. 
“It is imperative to have [BRC] here because a lot of times we don’t feel accepted, ” Sarah said. “We want the university to know that we are here. ”
*Name changed to protect privacyCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ONE BUTTON STUDIO  OPEN HOUSE
PRICE CENTER EAST, LEVEL 1WED, APR 27  • 11amTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 25 - MAY 12016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 4.27 TUE 4.26
11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. 
11am
ONE BUTTON STUDIO OPEN HOUSE- ONE 
BUTTON STUDIO, PC EAST, LVL 1
Come check out the One Button Studio and 
explore the functionality of the newly installed 
green screen! At this even, you will stop by and 
record a 30 second video on what it means to be 
Triton. Presented by Peer Educators, CSI - 
Communication & Leadership
11am
CHALLENGE COURSE ZIPLINE OPEN HOUSE - 
ODYSSEY ROPES COURSE 
Experience the biplane and check out our ropes 
course!
1pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
June us in learning new tips for financial success 
both in and out of college from the Financial Aid 
and Scholarships Office.
Be prepared to have fun while gaining skills to 
help your financial future!
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so 
you can be more successful in obtaining your 
career goals. FRI4.29
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where international 
and domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and the 
local community can come together to celebrate 
cultural diversity and international education. Each 
week the Friday Cafe presents the opportunity to 
explore world cultures, cuisines, music and more. 
Join us for this unique international experience!
Price: $5 per plate
1pm
TAKING THE CON OUT OF CONFLICT- EARL 
WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LVL 3
Conflict shows up in our personal, academic, and 
professional lives. But how do you show up in 
conflict? This interactive workshop provides 
communication, negotiation, and conflict 
management tools, inspired by the book Getting to 
Yes by Roger Fisher and William L. Ury, that will teach 
students to humanize their adversaries and navigate 
difficult conversations. 
Presented by Haley Lomax, Graduate Assistant, 
Student Veterans Resource Center
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: PSYCHEDELIC 
COLORING NIGHT - THE LOFT, PC EAST
Midterms got you down? Want to relax before Sun 
God? Do you just love coloring? University Centers 
has you covered! Come out to The Loft on Friday, April 
29 to color to your hearts desire! ALL MATERIALS 
WILL BE PROVIDED! It will be a night full of relaxation 
and coloring so don't miss out! SUN 5.01
5pm
APPLY TO BE A CHANCELLOR'S ASSOCIATES 
SCHOLARS PROGRAM (CASP) PEER LEADER- 
STUDENT SERVICES CENTER, SUITE 530
CASP Peer Leaders (CPLs) provide support related to 
academic, personal, and sociocultural issues 
affecting CASP students' college transition. The role 
of the CPL is to foster a welcoming, safe, and 
inclusive community among entering students and to 
encourage student development and identity 
awareness. 10am
FITNESS ZONE:BOMBAY JAM- THE ZONE
Bombay Jam is the ultimate dance fitness total body 
workout that is effective, safe, easy to follow and 
packed with authentic Bollywood flavor! Bombay Jam 
incorporates cardio and toning routines into one action 
packed total body workout.
10am
UC SAN DIEGO GRAD FAIR- UCSD BOOKSTORE, 
1ST FLOOR
Now's the time to purchase your cap & gown, or 
bundle and save with a Triton Grad Pack. Find out 
about diploma frames, class rings, grad 
announcements, more exclusive sales, senior 
portraits, last chance for academic discounts on Apple 
computers, discounts and more.
2pm
LEARNING TO MANAGE RISKY SITUATIONS - 
ALCOHOL, DRUGS AND YOUR PEERS- BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 2
Are you "that friend" who takes care of everyone 
when you all go out? Do you want to know a BIT more 
when sticky situations come up? If you answered yes, 
then you want to participate in this fun interactive 
training on alcohol education and bystander 
intervention. Become a "Floatie" and learn some new 
ways for keeping friends afloat at parties.
7pm
MAGIC NIGHT - MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM, 
STUDENT SERVICES CENTER
Magic Night with San Diego's Best Magician.
See it, try to believe it. Free admission. Free food.
#doyoubelieveinmagic?MON 4.25
10am
KNOW YOUR RIGHTS- PRICE CENTER PLAZA
This is an annual campaign aimed to help YOU, the 
student, at UCSD. Want to ensure that you make 
safe and smart decisions during Sun God weekend? 
Then participate in fun games, learn about your 
rights, and win prizes!
11am
ART & SOUL: CANVAS TOTE BAGS - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Paint and stencil your own eco-friendly tote bag! 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served. Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
 5pm
CESAR CHAVEZ FREE MOVIE SCREENING- THE 
LOFT, PC EAST
History is Made One Step at a Time is a 2014 
American biopic film centered around Cesar Chavez 
that is produced and directed by Diego Luna. It tells 
the story about the life of American labor leader 
Cesar Chavez who co-founded the United Farm 
Workers. 
SAT 4.30
LEGACY LECTURE AWARD VOTING--VOTE FOR 
YOUR FAVORITE PROF! - ONLINE
By student vote, six incredible professors have been 
nominated for UCSD's Legacy Lecture Award. Cast 
your vote on this form to have your voice heard and 
come to the award-winning lecture on May 18th at 
Price Theater to hear the professor speak! Your vote 
also enters you for a chance to win $25 gift card. 
Voting will close April 30
1pm
UCSD MEN'S TENNIS VS. 
CLAREMONT-MUDD-SCRIPPS- NORTHVIEW 
TENNIS COURTS
Watch as UCSD Men's Tennis takes on 
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps.THU 4.28
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
-Gain greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful 
state of being -Learn techniques to de-stress 
-Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance. 
Workshop led by: Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife 
Instructor
12pm
PRESENTATION: CITY OF SAN DIEGO'S CLIMATE 
ACTION PLAN- WELLS FARGO HALL, RADY 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT, ROOM 4N128
UC San Diego's Staff Sustainability Network (SSN) 
strives to provide multiple opportunities to spark 
conversations on building sustainability awareness. 
In continuing with these efforts, we invite you to join 
us for a special presentation on the City of San 
Diego's Climate Action Plan (CAP).
6:30pm
BREATHER SERIES: THERAPY FLUFFIES - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER ART SPACE
Take a breather and de-stress by petting and playing 
with some adorable fluffies!This program is in 
collaboration with UCSD's The Zone and Love on a 
Leash Organization.
6:30pm
UC SAN DIEGO GRAD NIGHT- UCSD 
BOOKSTORE
We reopen the store just for you! This is UCSD's red 
carpet, graduation kick-off party for the class of 
2016! Grads are invited to bring their family and 
friends to this not-to-be-missed event. Free food, 
fun zone, networking with Alumni, find out about 
class rings, diploma frames, grad announcements, 
take senior portraits, sign the class plaque, 
thousands of dollars worth of drawings, PLUS 
discounts and sales exclusive to this night only. 
Triton Grad Packs will be on sale too.
8pm
VERADARTZ- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Armenian Culture Celebration Through the Arts 
Featuring: Element Band, Unplugged, Nazo Brave, All 
Taken, and more!Upcoming at
Upcoming attheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduROUND TABLE 
FRIDAYS:
FT. DVC
Friday, Apr. 22  
1pm-4pm  
Round Table Patio  
Price Center West • FREESUSTAINABILITY 
AWARDS
Tuesday, Apr. 26  
Event: 3-6pm
The Loft • FREE
GSA PRESENTS:
GSA COMMUNITY 
SERVICE AWARDS
Wednesday, Apr. 27  
Event: 4-6pm  
The Loft • FREEALPHA GAMMA ALPHA:
VERAHARTZ: ARMENIAN 
CULTURE CELEBRATION 
THROUGH THE ARTS
Thursday, Apr. 28  
Doors: 8pm •  Show: 8:30pm
The Loft • FREE
ROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSPSYCHEDELIC 
COLORING NIGHT
Friday, Apr. 29  
Event: 5pm  
The Loft • FREE  
CC CELEBRATION 
COMMITTEE:
CÉSAR CHÁVEZ FILM
Monday, Apr. 25  
Doors: 4:30pm •  Show: 5pm
The Loft • FREE
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Pharmaceutical
 5 One of the Three Bears
 9 Friendship
 14 Scruff
 15 Yale students
 16 Actress Taylor
 17 Migration and mating rituals, e.g.
 20 Be ga-ga over
 21 Amer. ship designation
 22 Sweet-smelling German city?
 26 Respire
 30 Los __, NM
 31 Oh, why not?
 32 Like sushi
 33 Pearl gatherer
 34 Pickle seasoning
 35 Deal (with)
 36 Minestrone, e.g.
 39 Old Italian bread?
 40 Scoots
 41 Shinbone
 43 Even as Shakespeare spoke
 44 Auction off
 45 Became gloppy
 46 Tremendously
 48 Cruise ship “bankers”
 49 Daiquiri ingredient
 50 Mystery writer Gardner
 51 Miners’ finds
 59 Change for the better
 60 “A Death in the Family” writer
 61 Run in neutral
 62 Nuh-uh!
 63 Twist
 64 DiplomacyDown
 1 CSI tool
 2 Managed
 3 AP competitor
 4 Jewel
 5 Honeydews
 6 __ and kicking
 7 Ore source
 8 Silly person
 9 Comes up
 10 Table constellation
 11 Business abbr.
 12 Asian holiday
 13 You bet!
 18 Dan Quayle’s successor
 19 Snapping reptile
 22 Scoundrel
 23 “Hamlet” Oscar winner
 24 Shirley’s roomie
 25 Greek letter
 26 __ and whistles
 27 Condition in River City
 28 More cheerful
 29 Lamb’s parent
 31 Printed lies
 34 Every twenty-four hours
 35 Spirals
 37 “__ and Louise”
 38 Sound system
 39 Table support
 42 Classified items
 44 Stout
 45 Swallowed hard
 47 Scene of the action
 48 Clean one’s feathers
 50 Advantage
 51 Douglas’ isle
 52 Chat room abbr.
 53 Recent
 54 Sci 101 locale
 55 Take a chair
 56 Ms. Tarbell
 57 RN’s comfort
 58 Put in positionBIKES
Chariot Cougar Jogger/Stroller/Bike Trailer 
- $450. This has it all. Includes bike trailer 
attachments, jogger/stroller attachment 
and baby harness. Lightly used and ready 
for action. Retails with all add ins over $800. 
Listing ID: 257042507 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Rallye 18 Speed Mountain Bike - $50. Rallye 
eighteen speed girls mountain bike, pink 
and white. Purchased for my daughter 2 
yrs ago, she has never rode it. Listing ID: 
255904704 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
SE Bikes Fixie - $325. I have only used the 
bike a couple of times, bike looks pretty 
much new. Bought the bike for $400 and a 
$50 lock that will replace the bike if stolen 
and also comes with an extra bullhorn 
handlebars. Listing ID: 255904702 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationFURNITURE
Living Spaces Couch/Pillows - $300. Living 
Spaces charcoal/multi-color weave couch. 
Pillows included. Still in attractive shape. 
Was $760, now $300. Have to move and 
can’t take with me. In a pet house/no 
smoke. Clean. 8 ft long, 3.5 ft deep. Listing 
ID: 257042597 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Leather Chair and Ottoman - $150. Black 
leather chair and ottoman. From Jerome’s. 
About two years old. Listing ID: 257042578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Used Computer Stand in Great Condition 
- $70. Computer stand has a premium feel 
to it. Good for a simple bedroom or small 
office setup. Listing ID: 257042594 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationELECTRONICS
PS3, 5 Games, 37” TV - $140. PS3, 5 games, 
3 controllers with cords, 37” TV. Listing ID: 
257042573 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Gallien-Krueger Bass Amp - $50. Works 
great. Great practice amp. Small and porta -
ble. Listing ID: 257042565 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
GoPro Silver 3+ - $235. Never used GoPro 
Silver 3+. Just took it out of the box. If 
you are looking for a new GoPro at a ter -
rific price, this is it! All the original attach -
ments are included. Listing ID: 257042564 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.PApr 27 & May 18 
7-11am • Regents Shuttle Loop
For more information contact ucsdaccb @gmail.comBreakfast @
THE LOOP8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Professor Pedro Cabrales moved from the small town of Ocana, Colombia to the larger city of 
Bogota at the age of 14, after his father was kidnapped and murdered. He passed this fact along 
with a reassuring smile meant to suggest it’s not something worth commenting on anymore. 
“Colombia is really violent, ” he shrugged, “Things are different down there. ” 
He said this while showing me a powerpoint containing maps of Colombia and pictures of his 
pets. He explained to me that he prepared this slideshow to present to anyone who asked him the 
same question I started our interview with: “Tell me about where you grew up. ”
Cabrales earned his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Mechanical Engineering from 
La Universidad de Los Andes in Bogota. His graduate school projects centered around 
bioengineering and the medical field. Laughing, he recalled one time in which a doctor-in-
training at the research hospital mistook him for the delivery boy because of his appearance. 
“I was a student, ” he exclaimed. “I didn’t care how I looked!” 
Cabrales’ graduate work led to a Ph.D. and a job offer, drawing him out of Colombia and 
into a new biotech company located in San Diego — the only U.S. city he had ever visited. The company had a billion dollars to invest in synthetic blood manufacturing. It went bankrupt 
within six months. 
After seven years of postdoctoral work and private research for the La Jolla Bioengineering 
Institute, Cabrales became a bioengineering professor at UCSD in 2009. He embraced his 
lack of teaching experience and thick Colombian accent, engaging students with entertaining, 
unconventional lectures.
“I taught without knowing if I was doing it right or wrong, ” he said. However, after teaching 
just two courses, he won an award for best teacher in the department. Three of these awards now 
rest on a trophy case next to two large hunks of glass.
Picking up the glass, he said, “This is really bad. If the chancellor sees this he may fire me. ” 
He explained that what I was looking at was a broken trophy, which he earned for promoting 
diversity in STEM by appealing to minorities at a Chula Vista high school. He mimed the 
precarious position of the trophy upon the bookcase, how it fell a day after receiving it. “I need to 
glue this, this is so bad, ” he winced.
Despite all the trophies, Cabrales is most proud of his family. Two chihuahuas, three cats, one 
wife, an 18-month-old daughter, Lucille, and a baby boy on the way (“He’s gonna be a Pedro!”) 
are captured in dozens of pictures featured in his slideshow and phone. For this professor, no two 
days are the same at UCSD or in La Casa de Cabrales — and he wouldn’t have it any other way.Tia   Ikemoto   Behind the  Lecturn
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Explore the art of science 
and cinema through 
over 20 demonstrations, 
presentations, and 
performances by virtual 
reality industry leaders and 
international artists.
Tickets on sale now!
Half Day Pass:
$20 General Admission
$5 UCSD student
All Day Pass:
$35 General Admission
$10 UCSD StudentMAY 7, 2016
LOST
-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabies
follow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitters #sgfbabies Sun aware baby sun god. Answers to the name of “Natalie”. Carries sunscreen.
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 5 years old. Loves roses, pandas, and music. 
Last seen saving lives at Canyon View.  
Darkstar library, located above the shell of promised Taco Villa, hosts one of the largest public 
collections of speculative fiction in San Diego, with a surprising number by UCSD alumni. The 
UCSD Guardian dives into hyperdrive and terraforming Mars to find the relationship between 
science fiction and fact at UCSD. 
On the second floor of Original Student Center, perfumed by the savory smells of Hi Thai and 
given a soundtrack by KSDT Radio, exists Darkstar Science Fiction and Fantasy Library. Occupying 
a corner of the building, Darkstar overflows with one of the largest science fiction and fantasy 
collections of the area. It is home to over 6,000 volumes, covering the range from pulp fiction to 
hard-science fiction. Novels line the shelves and the floor for most of the library; cardboard boxes 
occupy the corners with the spines of novels visible from the open tops. 
Publicist of the Darkstar organization and Sixth College freshman Athena Knopes informed the 
Guardian that the boxes littering the floor are signs of a new influx of novels. 
“A l l  o f  t h e m  a r e  d o n a t i o n s ;  t h e  D a r k s t a r  d o e s n’ t  b u y  t h e i r  o w n  b o o k s  e v e r,”  K n o p e s  s a i d .  “ We  
have so many books that we are going through a purge to get more shelf space and prune out the less 
favorable types. ” 
She gestured to a small shelf of “unsavory” ‘70s trash novels. However, even those books are 
available for checkout with a student ID. The library is not only open to all students but to the entire 
San Diego community, provided that you can abide by the one-month due dates. 
 While the literature documents authors’ speculations about the future, the collection shows a 
history of UCSD’s involvement in the creation, inspiration and inception of science fiction. Darkstar 
has been around since 1978 and since that time it has expanded its collection to include works by 
former members. 
“We have of a lot of [authors] who are not only UCSD alumni but Darkstar alumni, and that is 
very validating, ” Knopes said. 
UCSD hosts a large cohort of  alumni and speculative-fiction authors, including Hugo and 
Nebula Award winners David Brin (“Postman”), Kim Stanley Robinson (“Mars Trilogy”) and 
Gregory Benford (“Timescape”). Although the Hugo and Nebula Awards are relatively unknown 
outside the realm of science-fiction writers and readers, these awards are regarded as the Oscar of 
speculative fiction. Looking at the Nebula Award for Best Novel only 37 have been awarded, three 
to UCSD alumni. 
Shelley Streeby who currently teaches CAT 3B “Worldmaking: Imagining the World in 2116, ” seems to have an answer as to what inspires UCSD students to write speculative fiction. 
“Of course our STEM strengths are a big part of that, but since those strengths gets most of the 
attention and tend to overwhelm consideration of the other things that make UCSD great in this 
regard, I would like to call your attention to the unusual and distinctive strengths our particular 
configuration of social sciences and humanities here has for writers of speculative fiction. ” Streeby 
told the UCSD Guardian. “The fact that the Literature Department engages world literature rather 
than being a monolingual English Department and its U.S.-Mexico border location also contribute to 
the particular strengths of science-fiction here. ”
As a professor of literature, Streeby works with a range of students through the CAT program 
but, when her undergraduate students leave for the summer, Streeby ushers in a new set of students 
for the Clarion Fiction and Fantasy Writer’s Workshop. As director of the program, Streeby has seen 
firsthand the effect of the university on quality of writing. 
“Since Clarion came to UCSD, our classes have become more diverse and more excellent, proving 
my point that diversity and excellence go together instead of being at odds with each other, ” Streeby 
said. “Our students quickly go on to publish and to be nominated for major awards in the field, such 
as the Nebula Awards. ”
According to Streeby, Clarion now resides at UCSD partially because of the efforts of Robinson, 
a frequent instructor and contributor to the workshop. Since the move from the original location, 
Clarion University, to UCSD in 2007, Clarion has brought speakers and lectures such as writer Ted 
Chiang, filmmaker Alex Rivera, to campus. 
“Clarion is a great asset to UCSD and everyone at UCSD who cares about making connections 
between STEM fields, social sciences and arts and humanities, and about undergraduate and 
graduate education, should be very glad it is here and should try to keep it here, ” Streeby said. 
When asked, Knopes, an electrical engineering major, also remarked on the importance of these 
novels to students. 
“I think that sci-fi is very rooted in UCSD, and if it turns out that it isn’t it should be, ” Knopes 
said. “Everyone is STEM focused and hard sci-fi especially extrapolates from current and reasonable 
science into the future. Sci-fi should be required reading for any STEM major. And then fantasy is 
just escapism, which we have a lot of also. ”
If it’s science you are looking for,  you can find it around any corner. If it’s scientific 
speculation with a substantial helping of imagination, check Darkstar Library or maybe you 
might write it yourself. Darkstar Science Fiction and Fantasy Library Cabrales de ColombiaDarkstar (Stephen Potts)
Written by Tia Ikemoto // Contributing Writer
The Darkstar Science Fiction, Fantasy and Gaming Club has been an integral part of UCSD’s 
history since the late ‘70s. With over 5,000 genre fiction books available to borrow for free, perusing 
the shelves can be a bit intimidating. 
Fortunately, the Guardian asked resident Sci-Fi expert Professor Stephen Potts to narrow down 
the genre and recommend noteworthy books written by past UCSD students. Check out Darkstar, 
located next to KSDT’s office to get your hands on these authors’ works.Potts’ Recommendations :
t“Timescape” (1980) by Gregory Benford
This time travel book was written by one of the first students to receive a Physics Ph.D. from 
UCSD. It features scenes set in UCSD in the early ‘60s back when Revelle was the only college.
t“Earth” (1990) by David Brin
Although this author has written several famous works, Earth gets a special mention because it is 
one of the books pictured in Geisel’s entrance window art (look for it in the bottom left corner).
t“Rainbows End” (2006) by Vernor Vinge
Set in the near future, a central storyline in this novel is the fight to prevent Geisel from becoming 
entirely digitized.
t“The Mars Trilogy” (1993–96) by Kim Stanley Robinson
Although the award-winning trilogy does not take place in San Diego, Robinson deserves to be 
credited as one of the most current UCSD sci-fi writers having published his most recent novel 
just last year.▶ STUDENT CENTER,  from page 6
Allison  Kubo    BY   A l l i s o n   K u b oThough not well-known, Darkstar library has nurtured a dedicated community of science fiction writers at UCSD since its inception in 1978.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
less than a minute left in the overtime.
The match came down to sudden death, first to score wins. Boyer 
received the ball down low when she produced a moment of brilliance, 
having a condensed space and facing away from the goal, a back-hand shot 
reached the back of the net and gave UCSD the win. The sudden death 
win, in turn, gave rise to a frenzy for the 1,014 fans that witnessed such a 
captivating match.  
The rivalry game marked the last regular-season game for seniors 
Kirkland, Kistler, Courtney Miller, Emma Sasson, and Lauren Finwell.
The win on Friday evening marked only the second victory against San 
Diego State for the Harper Cup in 15 attempts. Senior goalie Courtney 
Miller recorded 13 saves during the match and took the honor of being 
named the Harper Cup MVP . 
Next up, the Tritons will head north to the Bay Area to compete in the 
Western Water Polo Association Championships at Chabot College, April 29 
to May 1. UCSD will start defending the conference crown in the semi-finals 
as they were awarded a first round bye.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS EVENT, PLEASE EMAIL ADVYAS@UCSD.EDUAPRIL 29, 2016 | 11:00AM – 3:00PM
INTERESTED IN WHAT FELLOW TRITONS ARE DOING?
FREE FOOD AND DRINKS WITH 
HUBERT’S LEMONADE AND MORE!COMING THIS YEAR TO 
PC BALLROOM AND PLAZA...
If you or a friend ha ve been ac cused o f 
violating a Student Condu ct or Aca demic 
Integrity Policy then  you have the
 RIGHT
 to 
be represen ted by a Student Advocate!GOT A VIO LATION?
GET INFORM ATION.
Contact  us at asa dvo cac y@ucsd.edu or
visit  us at Pric e Center East, Leve l 4AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed uAS O FF ICE  O FCal State San Marcos was quick to respond with a run in the 
bottom of the fifth inning after capitalizing on a fielding error 
by Van Der Maaten. After two more scoreless innings, the game 
was tied 4–4 and was headed into overtime. 
However, the Tritons managed to win the game in the eighth 
inning on Abeyta’s two-out single through which brought home 
Baker, who had previously doubled to left center field. 
Senior lefthanded pitcher Lexi Edwards got the win after 
allowing one earned and three unearned runs in 5.1 innings, 
allowing the Tritons to put up five runs on 10 hits and solidify 
their spot in the CCAA tournament.
Game 2 — UCSD 5, CSUSM 2
Even after clinching playoffs, UCSD refused to dial it back. 
Right off the bat, the Tritons scored two runs in the first inning. 
Baker and Abeyta both singled into left field and advanced to third and second on a sacrifice bunt from Maday, respectively. 
Weisner then plated Baker on another single to left field and 
Abeyta eventually reached home on a sacrifice fly by Clewett. 
The Cougars managed to tie the game 2–2 by scoring in both 
the first and second inning. In the first, senior outfielder Caylyn 
Rodriguez singled and reached second on a sacrifice bunt. 
Senior infielder Melyssa Bellamy then doubled and brought 
in Rodriguez. In the second inning, Rodriguez doubled and 
brought home sophomore infielder Karla Bernal. 
Maday traveled from base to base in fashion during the third 
inning. After singling to right field, she advanced to second on 
the account of Weisner being hit by a pitch. Maday then stole 
third and reached home on an error by outfielder Rylee Johnson.
UCSD scored a couple more insurance runs in fourth and 
sixth inning on infield singles. In the fourth, Baker hit a ball to 
the second baseman and batted in freshman designated player 
Sklencar. At the top of the sixth, sophomore outfielder Kendall Woken hit a bunt single that plated senior outfielder Kristin 
George and made the score 5–2.  
Cal State San Marcos was shut down after the first two 
innings by UCSD’s rising-star freshman righthanded pitcher 
Lauren Brown who pitched a complete game with two-earned 
runs on seven hits while striking out five. She got the win and 
moved to a 12–6 record for the season. 
UCSD will head on to the CCAA Tournament where it will 
compete among the other top teams in the conference. The Tritons 
will play as either the No. 3 or No. 4 seed and will compete with No. 
1 seed and top West Region team Humboldt State, No. 2 seed Chico 
State and Sonoma State for a direct qualification in the National 
Collegiate Athletic Association Regionals. UCSD Heads to the CCAA T ournament Looking to Earn a Spot in the NCAA Regionals as No. 3 or 4 Seed
Courtney Miller Named Harper Cup MVP ▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12
▶ WATER POLO,  from page 12readers can contact
Anthony Tzeng   aitzeng@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
daniel  hernandez    dah043@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Tritons Sweep San Marcos
week  in
summar y
W.  W A TER POLO
SOFTBALL
GOLFCal State San MarcosUCSD
UCSDSan Diego State6
4  35
5  2
8th Place
out of 9
No.11 UCSD hosted crosstown rival No.15 San Diego State in the fight for the Harper Cup 
on Friday evening. The match could not be decided at the end of regulation, eventually going 
to a second sudden-death overtime, where junior center Lauren Boyer rose to the occasion and 
sealed the victory for UCSD, 6–5. With the ecstatic win over SDSU, the Tritons ended the regular 
season with an overall record of 24–9.
With under two minutes remaining in the first period, UCSD broke the stalemate through 
redshirt junior two-meter defender Alexis Wieseler’s goal. But, the 1–0 lead lasted only 34 
seconds, as SDSU freshman driver Hannah Carrillo quickly responded with a goal of her own 
to make for an exciting end to the first. The second quarter provided a bit of an end-to-end spectacle with the Aztecs taking the lead 
at the six-minute mark. Freshman center Chanel Schilling kept the Tritons in it with a goal two 
minutes later to level the match once again, 2–2, though SDSU continued their strong offensive 
play and ended the quarter with a 3–2 lead.
After the break, a rejuvenated Triton team came out firing and eventually grabbed its first 
lead since the first quarter with two goals in the period, senior attackers Julia Kirkland and 
Laurel Kistler each with one. Later on, with less than a minute remaining in the quarter, the 
Aztecs once again were able to score a goal and make it a tied match, 4–4.  
The score remained deadlocked at 4–4 at the end of regulation, therefore multiple overtime 
periods would end up deciding the match. A minute and 38 seconds remained in the overtime 
where UCSD regained the lead, thinking it had grabbed the win at 5–4.  But it just was not meant 
to be: At that moment, for the third time in the match, the Aztecs were able to score a goal with 
The UCSD softball team rounded out its regular season 
by sweeping conference and regional rivals Cal State 
San Marcos in a doubleheader Wednesday at Cal 
State San Marcos Softball Field and clinching the third ticket 
out of four in the California Collegiate Athletic Association 
Tournament. By beating the Cougars, the Tritons will return 
to their sixth CCAA tournament appearance after a year of 
absence. The doubleheader concluded with Tritons beating the 
Cougars 5–4 in overtime of game one and 5–2 in game two. 
UCSD will end its regular season with an overall record of 
33–19 and 23–15 in CCAA. Cal State San Marcos, however, 
was unable to secure a spot in the CCAA Tournament with a 
10–32 overall and 7–25 in conference.  
Game 1 — UCSD 5, CSUSM 4
Coming into Cougar territory, the Tritons’ magic number 
was one. This meant they either needed one more win or 
Sonoma State to lose against Cal State Dominguez Hills. UCSD 
would not rely on the latter. In an exciting turnabout, the Tritons 
rallied from a 4–1 deficit to win it all in the eighth inning. 
Game one started off uncharacteristically, with UCSD 
getting into a jam after committing several errors and giving 
up three runs in the first inning. In fact, the offense was 
unable to get into a rhythm as the Tritons only managed two 
hits in the first four innings. 
UCSD shifted gears in the fifth inning by scoring four runs 
on five hits. With one out, senior outfielder Taylor Abeyta, 
sophomore second baseman Kendall Baker and sophomore 
outfielder Kelsi Maday all laid out bunt singles. Cougars’ 
junior pitcher Ashley Dagenais walked freshman outfielder 
Caitlyn Weisner, moving all the runners and scoring Baker; 
Abeyta was then able to score on a sacrifice fly from senior 
shortstop McKenna Clewett while sophomore designated 
player Emily Sklencar and freshman second baseman Darian 
Van Der Maaten both singled and brought home Maday and 
Weisner, respectively. By the end of the inning, UCSD took 
the lead 4–3. 
Written by  Anthony Tzeng // Contributing Writer
Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  See SOFTBALL , page 11
See WATER POLO , page 11CCAA ChampionshipUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
W. Water Polo
Baseball
Men’s Tennis
Men’s Rowing4/29
4/30
4/30
4/30
4/30AT CCAA Tournament
AT WWPA Championship
VS Cal State East Bay
VS Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
VS WIRA Championships
Tritons defeat crosstown rivals 
San diego state to claim Harper cup
Written by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff Writer 
Photo by Megan Lee / UCSD GUARDIANUCSD Wins
BY  D a n i e l   H e r n a n d e zW A TER POLO