VOLUME 49, ISSUE 47   THURSDA Y , APRIL 14, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LINKLATER’S 
LATEST
THE GUARDIAN CHATS 
TRANSITIONING TO COLLEGE, 
REVIVING THE 70’S AND 
SHOOTING SCENES WITH 
THREE LEADING STARS OF 
RECENT SPORTS DRAMA, 
“EVERYBODY WANTS SOME!!”
BEY OND  TWO   SLA TES
SOFTBALLSTRA YING  FROM  POLARIZA TION
Series  win  over  sf  st a teOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 66 L 53FRIDAY  
H 67 L 52
SATURDAY  
H 73 L 52SUNDAY  
H 72 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 
IN PLACE IS ENCOURAGING 
STUDENTS TO ONLY PICK 
UP ENGLISH AND HAVE 
NO INTEREST IN THEIR 
CULTURAL AND LINGUISTIC 
HERITAGE, THEN THE U.S. 
SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF 
WASTING SUCH A BEAUTIFUL 
THING.”
- MARCUS THUILLIER 
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
MARRIAGE AND CANCER..2
SUN GODDESSES  ............ 4
LIBERTY MARKET  ............ 7
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
BASEBALL  .................... 12WEEKEND,  P AGE 6
MPHOTO COURTESY OF DEALFLICKS.COM
The UC Berkeley Office for the 
Prevention of Harassment and 
Discrimination released information 
regarding 11 sexual harassment 
investigations on April 6. With 
the release of this report, there are 
currently a total of 19 UC Berkeley 
campus employees known to have 
violated UC sexual harassment policies 
over the past seven years.
Of the 11 respondents investigated 
by the University of California, three 
resigned, four had their contracts 
terminated and four received 
punishment in severity varying from 
suspension to a letter of warning. 
None of the faculty members found 
in violation of the policies were fired. UC Berkeley Assistant Vice 
Chancellor Dan Mogulof told the 
Daily Californian that the university 
recognizes the issue at hand and the 
task required.
“There are obviously things that 
campus leadership was aware of, and 
[it’s] part of the reason we’ve announced 
all the things we’ve announced and 
acknowledged very explicitly that 
we’ve got work to do, ” Mogulof said.
Most recently, UC Berkeley 
graduate students Kathleen Gutierrez 
and Erin Bennet decided to take legal 
action against assistant professor Blake 
Wentworth on April 12 due to the 
university’s “deliberate indifference. ” 
Although university inspections 
concluded that Wentworth had violated 
harassment policies in October, he was 
not subject to disciplinary action and remains employed at UC Berkeley.
Gutierrez told The Guardian that 
the experiences have been distressing.
“It was so disturbing to me to know 
that was happening in my workplace, 
that he made such an assertive come-
on to me, ” Gutierrez said. “I remember 
being very scared to think I might be 
alone with him. ”
UCSD computer science 
graduate student Kristjan Jonsson 
commented on the report and stated 
that severe violations should involve 
legal intervention.
“I think for more serious cases, 
both the legal system and the 
university should handle it, ” Jonsson 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Having 
both is better since the amount of Pro-Trump 
Statements 
Found Around 
CampusUCSD
Messages expressing anti-
immigrant sentiments were 
found near the Raza Resource 
Centro, among other locations.
BY  J a c ky  t o
news editor
Five unidentified hooded white 
males vandalized UCSD with chalk 
statements supporting Republican 
presidential candidate Donald Trump 
and his anti-immigrant policies on 
April 8, CBS 8 reported. The messages 
— which included “TRITONS 4 
TRUMP” and “BUILD THE W ALL, 
DEPORT THEM ALL ” — were written 
on Library W alk and the sidewalks 
near the Raza Resource Centro. 
UCSD’s Chancellor, Executive 
Vice Chancellor and Vice Chancellors 
released a joint statement on April 11 
in which they deemed the content of 
the statements reflective of America’s 
“divisive political climate” and 
contrary to the university’s Principles 
of Community.
“Unfortunately, late Friday evening 
graffiti promoting the deportation of 
undocumented immigrants and the 
construction of a wall on the border 
of Mexico was discovered chalked on 
UC San Diego’s campus sidewalks, ” 
the statement said. “This graffiti runs 
counter to our campus values of equity 
and inclusion. We value diversity and 
respect for all cultures. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
Provost Ivan Evans condemned the 
statement a day earlier in a Facebook 
post for targeting “Mexico and 
Latino/a students” and called upon 
the campus community to not give 
the culprits credibility.
“ERC therefore urges the campus 
at large to reframe this incident as 
an occasion to acknowledge the 
persistence of gross insensitivity 
in American society and insist on 
greater multicultural understanding 
on campus, ” Evans said. “Whoever 
furtively inflicted this incident on 
campus does not deserve the attention 
they cannot receive through rational 
discourse and open debate. ”
Senior Advocate for the A.S. 
Office of Student Advocacy Randon 
Herrera told the UCSD Guardian that 
the actions could constitute several 
student conduct code violations. 
These include, “conduct that threatens 
health or safety of any person” 
(VII.H), “verbal, written, electronic, 
or other threats of violence” (VII.I),  
and “conduct (e.g. harassment) that 
is so severe and/or pervasive, and 
objectively offensive, and that so 
substantially impairs a person’s access 
to University programs or activities 
that the person is effectively denied 
equal access to the University’s 
resources and opportunities” (VII.J).Activists Protest Student Debt 
and Donald Trump
UCSD students gathered together this afternoon 
to protest student debt and institutional racism 
during the second Million Student March. The 
protest is part of a nationwide movement by Million Student 
March organizers and the Black Liberation Collective.
Revelle College senior and protest organizer Aman Birk 
told the UCSD Guardian that the protestors are aiming to 
inform students about their goals in order to collectively 
pressure UC administrators to implement them. 
“Our reasons for [organizing the protest] are rising 
tuition, increased student debt loans, an increase of hate on 
campus and a lack of administration response, ” Birk said. 
“We want to bring attention to these issues so [students] 
know there are others here on campus willing to fight, and 
from this we hope to create momentum to actually have our 
demands reach the Regents and the state legislature. ”
Revelle junior and demonstrator Clif Pottberg explained 
that the objective of the march is to make students aware 
that they should not have to subject themselves to student 
debt in exchange for a college degree.
“Most people don’t realize the UC system used to be free, 
prior to Reagan becoming governor, ” Pottberg said. “Just 
the fact that we’re here raising awareness that people could be paying less for the same quality of education. What we’re 
paying to the university is a drop in the bucket to them. For 
us, it’s indentured servitude. ” 
Birk described that the Million Student March at UCSD 
had demands specific to the university, which called for the 
administration to reduce student debt.  
“For our UCSD demands, we want a freeze on tuition, ” 
Birk said. “We want Chancellor Khosla to take a salary pay 
cut and put that [money] towards scholarships for student 
activities. On top of that, we also want that $15 minimum 
wage that the UC [system] passed to extend to students who 
work less than 20 hours a week. We believe the work of a 
student working part-time is just as valuable as an employee 
working full-time, especially considering the student load of 
having to study and be a student. ”
The first Million Student March took place in several 
locations across the country on Nov. 12 of last year. According 
to the movement’s website, the second demonstration now 
puts a focus on challenging the xenophobia incited by 
Republican nominee candidate Donald Trump.
Birk clarified that the recent graffiti incident was 
unrelated to the event’s planning.
“Obviously with the recent events [the Donald Trump By   kevin  santos    staff writer#MillionStudentMarch
University Investigates Sexual Harassment Cases
Documents show that 11 UCB faculty members found guilty of sexual harassment were not fired.See PROTEST , page 3
UC BERKELEY
See BERKELEY , page 3BY  m i n g - r a y  l i a o
senior staff writer
jacky to   READERS CAN CONTACT2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. I feel like Sage said something tod.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Marriage Could Improve Survival Rates of  Cancer Patients
Using data from the California Cancer Registry, the team concluded this relationship varies between ethnicities and races. 
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee MoreA research team from the UC 
San Diego School of Medicine, 
UC Davis and Cancer Prevention 
Institute of California and of 
Stanford University determined 
that marriage can improve cancer 
survival. The scientists, who found 
that the correlation varies across 
a range of ethnicities and races, 
published their study in the journal 
Cancer on Tuesday.
Previous research consistently 
indicated that unmarried cancer 
patients su ffer higher mortality 
rates compared to their married 
counterparts. In particular, the greatest 
difference in mortality rates was found 
to be between non-Hispanic white 
males, at 24 percent. Additionally, 
mortality a ffects more unmarried 
than married individuals among the 
U.S.-born Hispanic and Asian/Paci fic 
Islander populations, relative to their 
foreign-born counterparts. 
The scientists analyzed cancer 
patients and their marital statuses 
within the California Cancer 
Registry, a statewide database 
comprised of information regarding those diagnosed with some form 
of cancer. This data includes 
approximately 393,470 males 
and 389,697 females who were 
diagnosed from 2000 through 2009 
for the 10 most common sites of 
cancer-related deaths. 
Co-author of the study, James D. 
Murphy at UCSD School of Medicine, 
described to the UCSD Guardian that 
the cancer registry reveals a limited 
amount of information.  
“The California Cancer Registry 
contains marital status at the time of 
diagnosis, ” Murphy said. “Marriage 
is dynamic, and people will become 
divorced, widowed, remarry or even 
marry for the first time a fter diagnosis. ”
Maria Elena Martinez, lead 
author and Sam M. Walton Endowed 
Chair in Cancer Research at the 
Moores Cancer Center, explained 
to the Guardian that, with a deeper 
understanding of ethnic, racial 
and socioeconomic backgrounds, 
health professionals may be able to 
optimize their care.
“I feel that awareness among 
clinicians and other health care 
providers of this higher risk for 
unmarried patients is important, ” 
Martinez said. “It is almost as if a ‘red flag’ should go up when a provider 
comes across an unmarried patient, 
especially a male patient. ” 
The proportion of unmarried 
American men and women 
continues to increase. According 
to the Pew Research Center, the 
number of adults aged 25 and 
older who had never been married 
increased from 9 percent of the 
population in 1960 to roughly 20 
percent in 2012. Furthermore, males 
were more likely than females to 
have been unmarried, at 23 percent 
and 17 percent, respectively.  
Despite this data, unmarried 
individuals can incur the bene fits 
that marriage o ffers without 
getting married. Scarlett L. Gomez, 
researcher at Cancer Prevention 
Institute of California and principal 
investigator of a companion paper 
analyzing socioeconomic factors, 
stated that such bene fits include less 
social isolation and social support, 
tangible or emotional. 
“ A strong support system can have 
meaningful impacts on the odds of 
survival a fter a cancer diagnosis, ” 
Gomez told the Guardian. “Spousal 
or child support [and] encouragement 
can lead to better health behaviors, such as adherence to recommended 
health screening … [and] more 
exercise.  Social support may also help 
to bu ffer stress, which in turn can 
inhibit tumor progression through 
immunologic or neuroendocrine 
processes. ” 
Muir College sophomore Irfan 
Habib that this data might instill 
unnecessary concern in unmarried 
men and women, or simply prompt 
some individuals to find other 
factors to cancer unrelated to marital 
status. To continually increase 
cancer awareness, he suggested 
organizing activities that educate 
UCSD students on healthy lifestyles 
and to avoid high-risk behavior. 
“I think cancer awareness can 
be improved simply by reminding 
people through organizations and 
newsletters [how to prevent cancer-
causing activities, such as smoking, 
and] that cancer is still a huge 
problem we are fighting, ” Habib said. 
“We can improve our chances against 
cancer by staying healthy and not 
taking part in risky behaviors. ”
Julie Yip   JlYip@ucsd.eduBy  J u l i e  Y i p
STAFF WRITER
chalking] developed a little more 
impetus [for the protest] than we 
expected, but the incidents of this past 
weekend were not directly related to 
why we’re here today, ” Birk said. 
During the march, Trump 
supporters congregated on the path 
between Outback Adventures and 
Geisel Library waving American 
flags. Revelle sophomore and 
Trump supporter Fernando 
Calderon explained that their 
presence was meant to show the 
UCSD community the diversity of 
student opinions on campus.“We’re here to let people know on 
campus there are other point of views; 
not just what the majority believes, ” 
Calderon told the Guardian. “It’s 
important to express your political 
opinions no matter what they are, left 
or right. I personally don’t agree with 
[the demonstrators], but everyone is 
entitled to their own opinion. I just 
think it’s fair to show there’s another 
side of the coin to every issue. ”
In addition, protesters found the 
presence of campus police at their 
demonstration to be unusual. 
“It’s unusual that [the police] are 
here because they’re usually not, ” Muir 
College senior Fabiola Orozco.However, campus police sergeant 
John Smart stated that he did not 
intend to challenge the demonstrators’ 
First Amendment rights, but to 
guarantee safety for everyone present.
“I support the students and their 
ability to exercise their freedom of 
speech, ” Smart told the Guardian. “I 
was there to make sure everyone was 
safe. For instance, if the march had 
gone out onto the street, then traffic 
would need to be stopped to ensure 
everyone’s safety. ”
evidence required in a legal court is 
quite high. That way, even if you didn’t 
have a strong enough legal case there 
might still be enough evidence for the 
university to consider it a violation and 
take action. ”
The UC Board of Regents has 
to approve termination of a faculty 
member once it has been recommended 
by a faculty committee. UC President 
Napolitano created a joint committee 
in October to specifically review 
and oversee adjudication as well as 
sanctioning practices regarding sexual 
harassment and violence. The newly 
formed committee will oversee the 
entire investigation process dealing 
with sexual violations in the coming 
months.
Of the 11 respondents, UC Berkeley 
men’s basketball assistant coach Y ann 
Hufnagel rebutted allegations against 
him with 900-plus text messages to 
prove his innocence. The evidence 
revealed that the interaction between 
Hufnagel and the complainant was mutually flirtatious. Hufnagel resigned 
before the review was released.
April is Sexual Assault Awareness 
Month at both UC Berkeley and UCSD, 
where the respective institutions 
seek to raise awareness and educate 
their communities on how to prevent 
sexual violence. W arren College senior 
Danielle Tobey states that the outreach 
initiative at the Sexual Assault Resource 
Center is limited during most of the 
academic school year.
“SARC does a good job, although 
I don’t hear or see much about [sexual 
violence education] unless it’s sexual 
assault awareness month, ” Tobey 
told the Guardian. “It’s less apparent 
compared to its partner organization 
CAPS. ”
Jonsson reiterated Tobey’s 
statement by suggesting that SARC 
escalate its operations to prevent them 
from being overlooked.
“I haven’t really noticed any sexual 
harassment education on campus so 
there probably needs to be more of it, ” 
Jonsson said.Nancy Wahlig, Director of the 
Center for Advocacy, Resources and 
Education at SARC told the UCSD 
Guardian that they have been working 
on implementing CARE, which aims 
to ensure consistent services across all 
campuses. The President’s Task Force 
on Sexual Violence is supporting the 
new department by also increasing 
staffing.
W ahlig added that apart from their 
initiative during the Sexual Assault 
Awareness Month, SARC offers a 
variety of resources over the course of 
the year for students, staff and faculty 
while also cooperating with other 
organizations to increase awareness.
“We...frequently collaborate with 
campus partners on a variety of 
initiates, ” W ahlig said. “With our staff 
and the involvement of our student 
peer education interns, we continue to 
expand our outreach efforts to make 
sure the campus community is aware 
of our services. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Source: http://bit.ly/MedEd_GoodSamaritanIt’s okay to call.
CALL 
911if someone is unresponsive OR 
can’t walk on their own OR is 
acting dramatically different· If someone looks like they’re in 
trouble, check if they’re okay
· California's Good Samaritan law 
protects witnesses who report  
life-threatening events· Understanding RAP
Responsible Action Protocol
For more information, visit http://rap.ucsd.edu1. HA, RA, or other University ofﬁcial is 
contacted
2. No other Student Conduct Violations are 
present
3. RAP hasn’t been used by the student in 
the last 2 yearsStudents receiving or initiating medical assistance 
for overconsumption of alcohol and/or drugs will 
NOT go through the formal  UC San Diego student 
conduct process if ALL of the following apply:
jane’s   ambiti on:
To transform lives.
Her game plan: a Master of Arts 
in Education  from Pepperdine.Pepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduGUARDIAN 
SCREENINGS:
MULHOLLAND DR
WHERE: GUARDIAN OFFICE
(OLD STUDENT CENTER)
WHEN: THURSDAY, APRIL 14 @ 6 P .M.Donald Trump Supporters Waved American Flags at the Protest
Regents Must Approve Termination of  Faculty Member Contracts▶ PROTEST,  from page 1
▶ BERKELEY ,  from page 1
READERS CAN CONTACT
ming-ra y  liao   READERS CAN CONTACT
kevin santos   kkSantos@ucsd..edu
CORRECTION: 
The UCSD Guardian misreported on April 11 in “BSU Hosts Overnight Program 
for Black Students” that the #BlackAtUCSD social media campaign was one 
month long and that  the overnight program was held in conjunction with 
it. #BlackAtUCSD is a quarter-long campaign and the 
overnight program is separate from it.
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SLA TING  
ON  
THIN  
ICE
The pervasive trend of male 
headliners at large music festivals is 
something that has trickled down to 
our own Sun God Festival, year after 
year. Although the selection of first-
line musicians doesn’t necessitate an 
anti-female artist sentiment from our 
student body or ASCE, it is a bias 
that can and should be addressed. 
With not one Sun God headliner 
in the past 10 years being female or 
including a female in the band, the 
UCSD Guardian Editorial Board 
urges ASCE to strongly consider a 
female performer as the first-line 
artist in future Sun God Festival 
lineups. By doing so, ASCE can take 
proactive measures to address the 
lackluster representation of female 
artists in the music industry and 
publically acknowledge the amount 
of talent and hard work that goes 
into music production from all 
across the gender spectrum.
The Sun God Festival is by 
no means alone in consistently 
featuring male headliners and 
performers. Taking 2015 festival 
posters and editing them to remove 
the male performers, Kristine 
Cannon of sheknows.com exposed 
the largely male bias in these large-
scale, multi-day concerts. The most 
inclusive festival was Governors 
Ball in NYC, counting a total of 66 
artists, 20 of whom were female. 
Lollapalooza in Chicago topped out at 34 acts including a female out 
of 135 total. The largest disparity 
pointed out by Cannon was 
Coachella Valley Music and Arts 
Festival in Indio, CA. Coachella 
had 162 bands overall, 22 including 
a female musician. For “reference, 
the Sun God Festival headliners 
for the past 10 years, starting from 
2016 back to 2006, are as follows: 
Miguel, Snoop Dogg, Diplo, 
Kendrick Lamar, Silversun Pickups, 
Wiz Khalifa, Drake, N*E*R*D, 
Coheed and Cambria, T.I. and My 
Chemical Romance.
Female musicians being 
snubbed for the headliner spot, or 
even the first line of music festival 
posters, is the product of male-
dominance in the music industry. 
In an in-depth PItchfork interview, 
producer-singer Bjork commented 
on the reality she faces as a female 
musician — having the male in the 
production studio being credited 
for her work despite Bjork being 
the primary singer/songwriter 
and music producer. Albeit her 
accompanying male producers 
would deny ownership of the album 
created by Bjork, the perception 
that Bjork was not the originator  
remains pervasive. Experimental 
pop artist Grimes expressed similar 
dissatisfaction with the music 
industry in an interview with The 
Fader, stating that any attempt for her to take over the production side 
of her own music in a studio led 
to the engineers not allowing her 
to use the equipment, while men 
could have access to it easily.
Billing a female musician as next 
year’s Sun God Festival’s headliner 
won’t vanquish the inherent sexism 
in the music industry, not at all. 
What it will and can do, though, 
is acknowledge musicians who 
are just as talented as their male 
counterparts but less frequently 
lauded for their efforts. Music 
festival organizers have used the 
excuse of featuring male artists 
in hopes of drawing more crowds 
and, thus, more revenue. Not only 
is this sexist, it does not even cater 
to the demographics of festival 
goers, of whom over half are female. 
However, money toward Sun God 
Festival is allocated by students 
through annual student fees, thus 
any notion from popular music 
festivals that a male headliner will 
drive ticket sales is completely 
awash. Simply put, why hasn’t there 
been a female headliner? A second-
line performer, like Jhene Aiko in 
2015 or Michelle Branch in 2010, 
is not the same as the first-line 
headliner position and should not 
be settled for. Ten years UCSD has 
gone without a female headliner and 
there should not be one more year. Sun God’s History of Male Headliners Reflects Sexism in Music Industry
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nathan Walker
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
Associate NEWS EDITOR
Maria Sebas
 ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. This year’s A.S. elections were dominated by the same two slates that 
competed with each other last year, mirroring the two-party system that 
defines our national politics. Though some may argue that a dominant party 
will get A.S. Council to act as a cohesive unit, history has shown that this isn’t 
necessarily the case. In the 2014–15 school year, when A.S. was dominated by 
Tritons Forward, Council meetings were as indecisive as ever, with a number 
of controversies involving the C.H.E. Cafe and Co-op representation on the 
Council taking up a lot of time. Taking a look back at A.S. Council’s recent 
history, students will realize that party a ffiliations are hardly a determinant 
when it comes to Council’s role of: appropriating student funds, saving 
student spaces, diversifying who can voice their opinion on Council and 
jump-starting new programs. Such divisive campaigning, then, is more 
preoccupying than progressive.
A look at both parties’ platforms reveals how fundamentally similar their 
goals are. This year, Students Determined’s platform promised to “increase 
accessibility of mental health resources, educate students on sexual assault 
policies being implemented at the systemwide level, among many other 
concerns. ” Similarly, Tritons United emphasized that over the past years 
they have, “improved awareness on important topics such as sexual assault, 
mental health and intersectionality, protected valuable UCSD traditions 
such as Sun God, and ensured that your student fees went to where students 
wanted their money spent. ” If anything, the elections are not a contest 
between di ffering ideas but a debate over who is best able to carry out our 
collective goals. 
Running together on the same slate undoubtedly allows candidates 
to bond in a unique way by forcing them to learn how to work through 
their di fferences. However, campaigning and governing are two distinct experiences: one is about winning, while the other involves a concrete 
implementation of those plans. During campaign season, the goal is to win 
and, as such, candidates a ffiliate themselves with a slate which can provide 
them with financial support and visibility. However, candidates become 
Councilmembers, and personal as well as political preferences inevitably 
change with their new roles. Even though candidates may have chosen to 
run on the same slate because they have worked well together in the past, 
their relationships could very well change and inhibit their general campaign 
goals from being realized. Additionally, the most recent elections had 
several candidates added to slates at the last minute because of unexpected 
vacancies, illustrating that slates can and o ften choose members simply to fill 
a void rather than to develop concrete solutions to campus problems. 
     Issues pertaining to political bandwagoning, such as inaccurate 
representation of student views and rapid slate formation begin with the 
length of the election cycle itself. The slate registration, campaign and 
voting processes all take place within the course of a month, which is simply 
not enough time for slates to establish their positions and membership 
adequately. Requiring candidates to form their slates earlier in the year, and 
prior to registration, would allow candidates to fully de fine platforms slate 
before campaigning and reducing the likelihood of ideas potentially being 
stolen. Also, this would allow potential candidates to find students and create 
slates rather than recon figure their ideas to those of an established slate. The 
principle of embracing individuality should be furthered by organizations 
which choose to endorse candidates. As we have seen, slate formation has its 
shortcomings and the label alone is unreliable in predicting how a candidate 
will vote when elected to o ffice, let alone how well they will work with their 
fellow Councilmembers. Although endorsing individuals poses the same 
See SLATES , page 5Though student government’s two-slate system increases voter 
turnout, resulting tension and polarization does more harm 
than good in facilitating action.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y ALEX  LEEMarcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
A leading subject of discord in 
America, especially for first- and 
second-generation immigrants, is 
whether or not students should 
drop their native language and 
instead learn only English. 
However, multilingualism is a 
proven asset in modern America 
and the lack of support for 
multilingualism is appalling. 
A survey by the European 
Commission asked in 2006, “Can 
you have a conversation in a 
language besides your mother 
tongue?” To which 56 percent of 
the respondents said they could. 
However, in the United States, 
this question is not even being 
asked. The United States Census 
Bureau reported in 2009 that about 
20 percent of Americans speak 
a language other than English at 
home. However, we cannot get any 
decisive conclusion from such a 
unrefined question, instead turning 
to language requirements in school 
to differentiate between European 
countries and the United States. 
In Europe, 20 countries require 
the study of a second foreign 
language for at least one year. For 
your average student, that means 
picking up English early and 
also getting to practice French, 
German or Spanish, among other 
languages offered. Within Europe, 
there is also a difference, as a 
non-English speaking country like 
Spain requires picking up a second 
language at the age of six, while the 
UK puts that minimum at 11, while 
Scotland only offers languages as 
an option, according to the Pew 
Research Center. 
But turn the spotlight on the 
other side of the Atlantic and the 
results are jaw-dropping. The 
U.S. does not have a national 
requirement for students to learn 
a foreign language in school, 
and when you break it down 
on a federal level, it gets worse. 
An article by the New York 
Times reports that Californian 
students can take an arts class and 
claim they passed the language 
requirement to graduate high 
school and get into college. On 
the opposite side of that, states 
like New Jersey need “at least five 
credits in world languages” or 
must “demonstrate proficiency in a 
language other than English before 
they can graduate high school. ” So 
everything is not completely bleak. 
In the end, one might ask: What 
is the point? Learning a second 
languages has proven to have 
health benefits, like reducing the 
chances of onset of Alzheimer’s 
or dementia, as shown by a study 
conducted at UCSD in 2012. 
Multilinguals also conduct a 
“workout” by shifting between 
languages, which makes them 
quicker and better at multitasking. 
The 2004 study confirming this 
was conducted by psychologists 
Ellen Bialystok and Michelle 
Martin-Rhee, and proved that 
multilinguals had “higher levels of 
cognitive brain function, and were 
more adept at solving problems, 
planning, and other ‘mentally 
demanding tasks. ” 
If the education system in 
place is encouraging students to 
only pick up English and have 
no interest in their cultural and 
linguistic heritage, then the U.S. 
should be ashamed of wasting such 
a beautiful thing. The Merits 
of  Being
Multilingual
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP WHEN YOU NEED IT,
AND MAKE KARMA REAL!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization where we 
can support good causes, cooperate, and 
volunteer to improve the UCSD community.
CHRISTOPHER O’RILEY
True Love Waits: 
The Music of Radiohead
While most pop fare has strong melodic foundations for 
the soloists to build from, O’Riley has challenged himself 
with the catalog of Radiohead, one of modern rock’s 
most acclaimed—and texturally complex—band. 
Wednesday, April 20, at 8 pm
The Loft
Tickets: $18–28; $12 UCSD Students
Christopher O’Riley and
The New York Chamber Soloists
PROGRAM  
LUDW IG VA N BEETHO VEN Trio in B-ﬂat Major, Op. 11, 
for clarinet, cello, and piano
IGOR STRAVINSKY L ’Histoire du soldat  for  
clarinet, violin, and piano
BÉLA BA RTÓK Piano Sonata and Contrasts   
for violin, clarinet, and piano
MAU RICE  RAV EL Sonata for violin and cello 
Thursday, April 21, at 8 pm
Department of Music’s
Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
Tickets: $36–54; $12 UCSD Students
dilemma in terms of the next election 
term, students will be confronted 
with more speci fic ideas. Slate names 
and a ffiliations can be misleading 
as well, reducing complex problems 
to a general view that o ffers quick 
fixes. Ultimately, it is the individual 
Councilmembers who will be voting 
and creating A.S. Council programs. 
Thus, their personal perspective, 
which cannot be possibly addressed 
in a short campaign slogan or list 
of platforms, is what voters need to 
understand. 
  An extreme alternative to the 
two-slate system would be to do 
away with slates entirely, a solution 
which would force voters to pick candidates based on their individual 
merits rather than the group they 
associate with. As ideal as this 
solution may sound, though, it still 
has its potential drawbacks. Without 
support from a larger group — and 
with students simply voting for 
candidates based on slate a ffiliation 
rather than on individual philosophy 
— elections may become even more 
of a popularity contest. Having 
a wider variety of una ffiliated 
candidates may also increase voter 
apathy by overwhelming students 
with too many choices, a potentially 
disastrous result given that only 20 
percent of the UCSD student body 
turned out to elect 16 students to 
represent them on A.S. Council for 
the 2016–17 academic year. With a smaller percentage, the election 
would have been considered void. 
    These potential drawbacks, 
however, must not overshadow 
the central issue that independent 
candidates cannot garner nearly as 
much publicity as slate candidates, 
who — due to group membership — 
bene fit from pooled resources and 
greater manpower. 
 A feasible first solution to this 
would be for A.S. Council to provide 
all candidates with basic resources 
for their campaigns, such as an 
official website listing the candidates’ 
statements and an allowance to 
fund other campaign activities. This 
additional resource would level 
the playing field and ensure that 
everyone’s voice is heard equally.▶ SLATES  from page 4Multi-Slate System Necessary To Reduce Polarization in A.S. ElectionsQ:  Since this film is about college in the ‘80s, how do you think college students in 
this day and age will relate to it?
Blake:  I would say that all the external things, like the music and the clothes 
and the haircuts, that all changes with time. But growing up and figuring out who you 
are and figuring out your niche in a group, that all stays the same.
Will:  It’s just like with every new batch of college students: you have a bunch of 
people questioning the world and seeing it in a new way. That’s the beauty of college. 
Y ou’re introduced to the world on a larger scale, with this safety net of academics and 
structure, and this allows you to raise those bigger questions without fear of not being 
able to pay your bills. That’s what these guys are doing, they’re living in this bubble of 
their glory days, and able to really examine the world around them.
Q:  The movie revels in the music and fashion of the late ‘70s, early ‘80s. What were 
your favorite parts of bringing this time back to life?
Will:  I would say the social aspect. It was great being in the disco club and not 
having any directions for any of the people in the background to be like, “okay so at 
this point, be on your cell phone, not paying attention to anything around you, ” which 
seems to be happening all the time now. So I just loved living in that world for a little 
bit. It was nice just to have music going and people actually dancing, socializing, 
having a good time.
Tyler:  In the 1980s, everything wasn’t so PC, and I mean that in the best way 
possible. People weren’t always looking to take offense. It was sort of a time period 
where everybody was enjoying themselves and the people around them. The whole 
STD crisis hadn’t come out yet. From what Rick has told us and from what we’ve seen, 
it was a time period where people were just a lot more easygoing.
Blake:  What I pulled from this movie is just to … live in the now. With 
everything around us, all the traffic, and the mindset we get approached with day to 
day, with Twitter and social media and how connected everybody is, you forget about 
the moment and what’s right in front of you.Q:  This seems like a really fun movie to make. Is this how it was in reality, or were 
there any tough days on set or tough scenes to shoot?
Will:  Not one. Not any of us can recall a bad day, or even a bad hour on set. So I 
think it’s pretty rare to have that, not even being able to have a single bad day to talk 
about for this whole shoot.
Tyler:  It was all just fun. That’s a feeling that comes down from Richard 
Linklater, and he takes that feeling and pushes it down to the entire set. When you’re 
hanging out on this set, it was just so laid-back all the time, that you can’t even 
question it, you’re just having a good time.
Q:  My favorite part of the movie, on top of your performances, was the hair and the 
clothes. Did that allow you guys to escape into that period more easily?
Tyler:  The first time I put on the clothes for McReynolds, even just walking out 
from the production office … I literally felt myself walking differently, I think I had a 
different pace and stride. It’s just the weirdest thing how you can change just a little bit 
of your physical exterior and have this sense that people aren’t seeing you so much as 
that they are seeing the character. It’s a really bizarre but freeing feeling, it makes you 
feel a little safer to play and push the boundaries.
Q: Nostalgia is a huge theme throughout Linklater’s work. How do you think this film 
fits into his anthology of work, in terms of that nostalgic theme?
Blake:  Looking at Rick’s films, this is sort of the side of Rick that’s always been 
an athlete, and likes to hang back and have a good time. It presents that side of him 
… But just like everything he does, it’s streaked with these notes of deep philosophical 
reflections on life. That’s the kind of guy he is, and he puts that in all his work. So it’s 
really nice with this movie to see that through an athlete’s perspective.Q  and  A
Wa n t s    Some    !!
Time has always been a factor that permeates Richard Linklater’s filmography, both as a major theme and as a filmmaking 
technique. The latter has rocketed him to critical success, with “Boyhood” and his “Before” trilogy using the natural aging of actors to 
elevate their narratives.
Linklater’s latest film, “Everybody Wants Some!!” is a bit of a return to his earlier work, eschewing such techniques while also meaning 
to act as a “spiritual sequel” to his popular 1993 coming-of-age flick “Dazed and Confused. ” 
Like most of Linklater’s films, it unabashedly plays into his own experiences. It’s decidedly white, middle-class and Texan. Which is by 
no means a criticism, given how e ffortlessly Linklater draws universal themes and conclusions from his personal experiences. “Everybody 
Wants Some!!” may be replete with baseball and binge drinking, but at its heart, it’s a perfect slice-of-life look at the changes students 
undergo through their transition into college, and a nostalgic look into the early 1980s.
The UCSD Guardian was lucky enough to share reminiscence with three of the young stars of the film. Blake Jenner plays Jake, the 
protagonist of the film and the newest addition to Texas Southern University’s baseball team, swept into a jovial yet competitive landscape 
of sports, girls, partying and looming classes. Tyler Hoechlin portrays Glen McReynolds, the baseball team’s captain, torn between being a 
friend and stern mentor towards Jake. Lastly, Will Brittain plays Billy Autrey, the only member of the team in a long-distance relationship, 
which brings along a whole di fferent set of challenges.
Questions asked by CSU San Marcos, Drexel University, UCSD Guardian, University of Kansas and the 
University of Michigan, respectively. All questions compiled and transcribed by the UCSD Guardian. Interview by Dieter Joubert // Senior Sta ff WriterEver ybody
PHOTO COURTESY OF DORKSHELF .COMWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
degree in bioengineering.Earned a bachelor’s 
to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that o ffers real-world experience.Now ready
Learn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856Cleop a tra
by   The  Lumineers
XYLO 
At   The loftRelease Date April 8
Concert Date April 9“Cleopatra” displays The Lumineers’ growth in 
tone and lyrics but doesn’t stray too far from 
their charmingly folky, distinguishable sound.
Indie pop duo XYLO rocked on at The Lo ft in an energizing 
performance that all audience members could tap into. ALBUM   REVIEW
CONCERT   REVIEW
When The Lumineers released 
their self-titled debut 
album in 2012, they drew 
comparisons to bands like Mumford & 
Sons but made a name for themselves 
with their own simplistic, rustic folk 
sound. Four years later, The Lumineers’ 
second album, “Cleopatra, ” ushers in a 
darker, moodier tone that displays the 
band’s growth while preserving their 
previously established identity.
Although “Cleopatra” retains the 
unmistakable indie folk sound that 
The Lumineers became known for, it 
abandons the jukebox, 1920s parlor 
sound that permeated the previous 
album. Gone are the clapping, stomping 
and ragtime melodies; instead, there’s 
a more prominent use of drums and 
electric guitars that allow the album to 
sound more contemporary, as heard in 
“Sleep on the Floor” and “Gale Song. ” 
Still, “Cleopatra” relies on instruments 
like the piano and tambourine 
to remind us of their traditional 
folk roots. The album’s first single, 
“Ophelia, ” demonstrates the fusion of 
the contemporary and traditional by 
combining ominous drum-filled verses 
with the upbeat piano chorus. But what 
ties all the songs together is lead singer 
Wesley Schultz, whose hollow, breathy 
vocals maintain the same soulful vibe 
running throughout the album while 
fluctuating between trills and high notes 
to keep it riveting.
However, the defining factor of “Cleopatra” is its incredibly poetic and 
storytelling lyrics that are narrated by 
various characters. For example, the 
titular song “Cleopatra” is based on a real 
taxi driver, following her life story from 
“I was Cleopatra, I was young and 
an actress” to “Now a nurse in white 
shoes leads me back to my guestroom/
It’s a bed and a bathroom/And a place 
for the end. ” Many of these stories 
have tragic endings: in “Long Way 
From Home, ” a man sees his hospital 
roommate die (“More morphine, the 
last words you moaned/At last I was 
sure/That you weren’t far away from 
home”). The Lumineers do a brilliant 
job of matching the emotional 
weight of each story with the somber 
ambience of each song, and their 
lyrical strength lends to the poignant, 
subdued tone of the whole album.
Clearly, The Lumineers have 
evolved from upbeat, toe-tapping 
folk to a heavier, more refined sound. 
There isn’t a blatant radio-ready hit 
single that compares to “Ho Hey, ” 
but the band succeeds in delivering 
heartfelt stories and contemplative 
tunes. In short, “Cleopatra” is an 
immensely enjoyable album that fans 
of The Lumineers and folk music in 
general can be excited about.
—   Ell y sa   Lim 
Contributing WriterXYLO’s SoundCloud 
account is deceiving. 
Listening to tracks before 
the concert to get in the groove? 
There’s not much you can do to 
anticipate how Paige Duddy’s 
soft vocals and her brother’s slow, 
rhythmic “tropical house” beats 
— reflective of Kygo — could 
possibly echo off a shrilling set, 
fusing sharp metallic guitar chords 
with thunderous drums. All of 
this happens as the lights shock 
the room in color schemes unique 
to each song. But the jocund-yet-
thrilling experience can only be 
attributed to Duddy’s own energy. 
Her exchanges with the guitarist, 
a clear conversation where the 
two seemed to push each other 
into ecstasy, emanated straight 
through to the audience. Diligently 
supported by the percussionist 
and her brother Chase’s turntables, 
Duddy held nothing back when 
she engaged with the audience, 
maintaining eye contact and 
swaying as if she were part of the 
crowd. 
Although the show was grungy and, arguably, a rock concert by 
most standards, the duo created 
an intimate atmosphere through 
Duddy’s bold interactions with 
the audience and universal lyrical 
themes. Most of the set is based on 
the duo’s personal experiences and, 
as Paige told the UCSD Guardian, 
“Every song is a journey through 
our personalities and who we are. ” 
Indeed they are, as the lyrics unveil 
the modern-day struggle of finding 
intimacy in a fast-paced world 
where we “just wanna be loved” 
(L.A. Love Song) but can never 
be sure if something is “Silver or 
White Gold. ”  Additionally, there 
is a constant discussion of how 
“we’re living on automatic” (BLK 
CLD) and are aware of it but the 
immediate solution to how a “heart 
is like a cool box” is “a lite beer” 
(L.A. Love Song).  
While the set was exciting, 
the sheer volume of the music 
unfortunately overpowered 
Duddy’s quieter sound and 
emotional message. Indeed, 
the raging guitar trills at times 
resulted in an exhausting noise rather than sound, particularly in 
songs where the lyrics constitute a 
repetition of the same few lines like 
in “Bang Bang. ” However, this is 
was a minor technical flaw, as the 
musicians’ synchronicity kept the 
audience transfixed. Furthermore, 
they incorporated elements of 
EDM through smooth buildups 
and consistent, clear drops. Chase 
Duddy amped up the percussion 
but managed to enhance it by 
restraining the sound to the 
background through reverbs. Beats 
are dispersed throughout each 
song but silenced to let Paige solo 
during more bittersweet songs like 
“ America; she depends on them to 
maintain the somber, raw character 
of lyrics alive amid the roaring 
percussion. Though the live 
performance was definitely more 
high-intensity than their EP , XYLO 
low-key mesh of strong beats and 
powerful lyrics relay an electrifying 
yet honest reality.
—   Tina Butoiu
Managing EditorB+A-
PHOTO BY KENJI BENNETT/ UCSD GUARDIAN8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
I know you did a segment 
on rave etiquette, but what 
should I keep in mind for 
Theatre for the movies? — 
Anonymous
While I can clearly see you’re 
taking the optimistic route — let 
me guess, the water cup is half-
full — I however prefer straight-
up, blunt critique with a side 
of edamame and anger. This is 
a general list of implied social 
implications in our American 
episteme of what not to do at a 
theatre or cinema venue: things 
that need to be corrected in dark-
red blood-colored complete-rage-
mode red pen.
With select exceptions — 
triggers at the forefront, followed 
by bladder necessities — leaving 
a venue, especially in a Theatre, is 
an unforgivable sin. Now you may 
be thinking: but Mister Man, hell 
is an endless margarita bar at a 
five-star beach resort where Satan 
welcomes you with a lei, endless 
booze and a flamboyant “Welcome 
to hell. ” No. You see, judgement 
is in the eyes of everyone as your 
silhouette blocks Elphaba’s deflating 
lungs when she ascends to greatness 
or white boy Zac Efron when — 
surprise surprise — his chiseled 
abs are once again the plot device 
of every script. You are disrupting 
the continuity of the performance 
because — news flash — you were 
not written into the shooting script 
or blocked into the set. I have seen 
this rule violated primarily as a way 
to protect privilege. Once, after an 
“f-bomb” on-stage, nearly a third 
of the audience walked out. During 
a campus performance, there was 
dialogue that didn’t protect people’s 
privilege. Oh no, the world’s not 
here to coddle your confined 
epistemological view of the world 
where everyone goes country 
clubbing at the resident golf course, 
slobbering over gentrification and 
$30 burgers. Because you’re going to 
disregard how hard the production 
team and cast have worked to bring 
fresh narratives into the world, let 
me get one thing straight for you: 
Kasich’s. Gonna. Lose.
The opposite side of the 
spectrum, in contrast to people 
leaving early, is people arriving 
late. This applies more so to 
performances than movies — 
because, for some reason, people 
care about seeing previews for 
the same recycled movie plot 
— but spare no exceptions on 
this. Arriving late to your seat is 
terminally offensive, especially 
during intermission. I was just at 
the Orpheum and the disregard 
for the playbill’s “INTERMISSION 
IS FIFTEEN MINUTES” in bold, 
Times New Roman — that’s when 
you know it’s real — reduced me 
to a state of vegetation as audience 
members continued filing back 
into their seats three minutes into 
the performance. I could feel the 
orchestra members perforating with 
disgust with the trumpet player 
on the verge of submitting his 
resignation letter. Look, if you hate 
brown rice and want it white then 
holla: Respect that other people are 
present as well and don’t disrupt 
continuity — you can’t resuture it. 
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
Tucked away in the quiet corner of La Jolla’s Drury Lane, 
the LOT is an escape adventurers can’t miss. Considered 
by many locals to be a stylish and sophisticated com -
munity hub for entertainment and dining, the LOT offers 
more than just fancy, fresh edibles and loose, live music for the 
relaxed ear. With close proximity to the shoreline, a beautiful 
indoor atmosphere, craft cocktail bars and a wide selection of 
the latest blockbuster films and throwback classics, locals sim -
ply looking to kick back from a long day’s worth of work or go 
on an intimate date will find the LOT venue a no-brainer. It is 
safe to say that that the LOT humbly promises an inspiring and 
artistic lifestyle experience like no other. Now, to the nitty gritty. 
Taken from the LOT’s breakfast menu, carefully developed by 
Chef Pitashny, are Garden Eggs, a breakfast entree made up of 
sunny-side eggs, gruyere cheese, fava beans, grilled asparagus, 
tomato, leeks, fresh herbs, Fresno peppers and grilled rustic 
bread would price at $15. No one was kidding when they said 
fancy. Same applies to the LOT’s lunch and dinner menus devel -
oped by local Chef Matt Sramek. Keep in mind that all three 
menus feature the best in local produce, meats and seafood, not to mention the broad selection of organic and vegetarian food 
options. But it doesn’t stop there. Every Tuesday, movie-goers 
can find comfort in knowing that tickets are priced at 10 bucks 
for people of all ages, while for other days, ticket prices vary 
from $15 to as much as $21 depending on the movie. Aside from 
movie tickets and dining options, individuals can reserve tables 
at $30 and under as well as arrange private parties or a company 
meeting at the venue. And yes, you can invite your guests to stay 
for a movie or two if it’s your very own party. In the end, it all 
comes down to whether one wants to spill a couple bones for the 
experience, which many can agree is revolutionary in its integra -
tion of upscale dining and entertainment. It’s hard to find ven -
ues these days that have both elements. So don’t bother looking 
for similar places to the LOT in downtown San Diego, because 
you won’t find any. For all the first-timers who haven’t gone, the 
LOT is a venue worth trying. 
REST AURANT   REVIEW
HOURS:
Hours Based on Showtime Availability LOCATION:
7611 Fay Avenue 
San Diego, CA 92037
The Lot at La Jolla$$$
BY   I a n   L e  T r a n
Ian  Le  Tran   PHOTO COURTESY OF THE LOT
UCSDGUARDIAN.orgVISIT US AT:WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Wicked Maine Lobster 
by: Olga Golubkova//Lifestyle Co-Editor
Owners of food trucks and small food joints have long realized that anything can be turned into a street-food dish if put in a piece of 
bread. No surprise Wicked Maine Lobster decided to bring their fresh-caught lobster — seafood that one would not normally see as street 
food-affordable — in the form of lobster rolls to farmers markets and fairs across San Diego. Deliciously buttery and tender, Wicked Maine 
lobster rolls are served warm with butter or chilled with mayo. Regardless of what option you choose, you are guaranteed a filling sandwich 
with ideal lobster-to-toast ratio and a side of fries or onion rings (unfortunately, you do not get to choose between the two). Generously 
stuffed with big juicy pieces of lobster meat, this dish comes for a price of $16 — a sum $4-5 lower than at seafood restaurants, but arguably 
higher than what you expect to spend on a market meal. While the lobster roll is a Wicked Maine Lobster staple, its new menu features more 
traditional seafood dishes — Maine Lobster Taco with pico de gallo and New England clam chowder (one for $5 and three for $13), Lobster 
Mac N’ Cheese for $12, gluten-free New England Clam Chowder for $8 and lobster bisque for the same price. Eatery owners have also intro -
duced two other kinds of signature rolls — the crab roll ($12) and shrimp roll ($10) are well-priced alternatives to their lobster relative.  
Still hungry for that lobster meat? Wicked Maine sells fresh-picked lobster meat for $45/lb that can become a gourmet addition to your 
family dinner. Pasta Design
by: Marcus Thuillier//Contributing Writer
Aesthetically speaking, Pasta Design stands out with its variegated pasta and nice layout of San Pellegrino. Socially speaking, Pasta Design 
deserves to be praised for its commitment to using fresh products, even going down the aisle to the butcher to get its ground beef. When it 
comes down to taste, however, the pasta leaves you exceedingly disappointed.  
Advertising its lasagna as “the best lasagna in the world, ” Pasta Design is shooting itself in the food(t) by letting the customer remember 
everything but the pasta itself. Sadly, the lasagna is layered in a way that strictly separates the ground beef and the cheese, while the pasta is 
soggy and saturated in water. Moving on from the lasagna, the other pastas and sauces tasted relatively gourmet, although not as amazing as 
advertised. 
Pasta Design has decent food that is slightly overpriced, but by expecting the best lasagna in the world, the puffery does not stand after the 
first bite.Emphatic for Empanadas 
by: Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Co-Editor
Don’t let the line intimidate you from Parana’s Empanadas Argentinas — these little pockets of sunshine are well worth the line snak -
ing behind the glass display of golden pastries filled with assorted meats, vegetables and cheese. At $2.60 per empanada, these glorious 
Argentine treats are as delicious as they are affordable. And don’t let their sizes fool you, although smaller than the usual American portion, 
the empanadas are filled to the maximum capacity their delicately crisp pastry allows. Highly recommended is the rajas and cheese empa -
nada, generously stuffed with roasted chiles, queso and corn while perfectly balancing spice and warmth. Beyond the taste, each empanada 
is hand-crafted and personally stamped with an initial indicating its contents — a unique and Instagram-worthy touch. Finish this experi -
ence with an alfajor, a paradoxically dense yet fluffy shortbread cookie sandwich stuffed with decadent dulce de leche and crowned with 
toasted coconut shreds. With seasonings atypical to the usual San Diegan diner, Parana is a trifecta of comfort food, intricate flavors and 
cost-efficiency. 
Le Parfait 
by: Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Co-Editor
A little piece of France in the heart of San Diego’s bourgeois food market, Le Parfait is reminiscent of a corner cafe tucked away in a 
Parisian boulevard. Immediately, you’re drawn into a beautiful array of pastries — raspberry tarts dusted with confectioner’s sugar, choco -
late domes rested upon spongy cakes and iconic eclairs glossed with chocolate. While everyone knows that there is always room for dessert, 
make sure you save some room for a prerequisite savory treat from Le Parfait. Rustic baguettes that crackle with each bite are stuffed with 
aged salami, fragrant cheeses and jams ranging from the usual strawberry to the more unusual fig, creating the ultimate flavor combination. 
And in the French way, accompany le course with a strong espresso or a frothy cafe au lait. 
Mama Made Thai 
by: Shelby Newallis//Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
Thai food is one of those cuisines, like Italian and Mexican, that seems almost universally loved. With dishes such as Pad Thai, Tom Yum 
Soup and Panang curry, it’s hard to make a bad decision. Finding authentic Thai cuisine, however, is not always as easy (sorry Hi Thai). 
Luckily, Liberty Public Market houses Mama Made Thai, which focuses on recreating street food with a healthy twist. Inspired by 
Bangkok’s diverse cuisine, Mama Made Thai prides itself on using family recipes, fresh and local ingredients and no MSG, to avoid that 
“greasy feeling. ” With a large selection of appetizers, noodles, rice and soups, it is recommended to bring a friend, so that you don’t have to 
settle for just one dish. The UCSD Guardian tried the vegetable spring rolls ($6), Jasmine curry fried rice ($8) and the vegetable Pad See Ew 
($8). While each dish was delicious, the Jasmine curry fried rice takes the cake, with its menagerie of spices, sprinkling of raisins and veg -
etables, creating a complex flavor combination. Would recommend, 8.5/10.  
Bottle Craft 
by: Shelby Newallis//Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
If there’s one thing you don’t mess with a San Diegan about, it’s beer. The beer culture in SD is intense — you’ve got your Ballast Point, 
Modern Times, Green Flash, Stone, to name a few. It doesn’t really seem to matter what time of day it is, San Diegans take time to enjoy a 
good beer.
It’s no different at Liberty Public Market, where at any given moment, cool dads, grandmas and hipsters alike can be seen enjoying a 
cold one while strolling through the market. After a little detective work, the Guardian found the source of the red solo cups at Bottlecraft, 
a beer-tasting room within the market. With an extensive selection of local San Diego beers, it might be hard to just pick one. If that’s the 
case, the Guardian recommends taking advantage of the $2.50 for four-ounce pours, and sampling a few. If four ounces just don’t cut it, 
there are eight-ounce pours for $4.50 and 16-ounce pours for $6. The Guardian sampled the Almanac Saison, a strong, pale Belgian ale 
with a dry finish and the Pizza Port Shark Bite, an Amber Ale with lots of hops. Both beers are 10/10, would recommend. 
A unique and growing form of urban investment 
for many major cities like Brooklyn, Los Angeles, 
Seattle and San Francisco, public markets have finally 
hit San Diego. These hotspots of local eateries, fresh 
ingredients and innovative confections seem to be 
catering to the upper echelon — especially at the 
Liberty Public Market — but are nonetheless integral 
to the local dining scene and the “must see” travel list. 
With a bustling environment, professional staff and 
overwhelmingly bourgeois consumer base, Liberty 
Public Market might seem intimidating  at first, but 
nevertheless pleases the palate. Liberty Public Market Locations:
Restaurants
Cane Patch Kitchen
Cecilia’s Taqueria
Crafted Baked Goods
FishBone Kitchen
Le Parfait Paris
Local Greens
Mama Made Thai
Mastiff Sausage Company
Mess Hall
Paraná
Pasta Design
Scooped
Stuffed
Wicked Maine Lobster
Bars, Breweries, Juice Shops
Bottlecraft
Fully Loaded Juice
Grape Smuggler
The WestBean Coffee Roasters
Stores
AE floral
Baker & Olive
Garden Fresh
Howlistic
Liberty Meat Shop
Lolli San Diego Sweets
Pacific Provisions
Venissimo Cheese
2820 Historic Decatur Road 92106
Hours: Sunday to Saturday 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA/ UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO COURTESY OF LYUDMILA ZOTOVA
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA/ UCSD GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Fuji 3.0 newest 56 cm $345 - Excellent 
condition Listing ID: 91824440 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Like new! Cannondale road bike w/ 
Shimano 105 (UTC, UCSD area) $850- I’m 
selling my like new Cannondale CAAD eight 
with Shimano 105 groupo. I’ve had this bike 
for about 2yrs and have put maybe 1000 
mis on it in total. It has just been tuned up 
and ready for a new owner. It has never 
been dropped or crashed, and you can 
inspect it till your hearts content. I’m 5’6” 
and it fits me well. The bike will come with 
the water bottles and Shimano SPD pedals 
as shown. This is a road bike that’s built to 
climb fast and descent aggressively. If you 
are looking for a commuter, please look 
elsewhere as there are cheaper and more 
appropriate options. If you are looking to 
get into cycling, this is the bike you want. 
At this price, it’s a steal. Listing ID: 91824419 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Trek 7100 Road Bike ,Mountain Bike (City 
heights) $115- 24 speed,700 cc wheels 18 in 
frame ,missing front derailleur not effect at 
all ,besides work perfect,,ride smooth,selL 
FOR $115.show contact details. Listing ID: 
91824416 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information.
Boys bicycle + Razor Electric Scooter 
(CARMEL VALLEY) $150-Boy’s Magna 
Outreach 20 in Bike - blue 7-speed Index 
hardly used in good shape 70.00 and a red 
Razor Electric Scooter 80.00. if interested 
please call or text atshow contact info. 
Listing ID: 91679617at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information.
ELECTRONICS
Apple iPad 3rd Gen Black 16GB, Wi-Fi only, 
9.7in - $250- In a very good condition, have 
few minor scuffs and scratches from regular usages. Screen is clear, and all buttons are 
responsive. Comes with a smart case cover 
and doesn’t include charger. Located in San 
Diego, pick up and cash only, thank you. 
Listing ID: 91824570 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Kodak EasyShare C310 Digital Camera 
(downtown) $75- The Chimera Video 
Pro Plus one softbox kit is a US made 
lighting instrument built for demanding 
use in professional photography, film and 
TELEVISION applications. It is super rugged 
and very well made - not like the flimsy 
Chinese soft boxes. You can find out more 
here: http://www.chimeralighting.com/  
Cash and Local only. Listing ID: 81703335 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FLASH - Soligor MK-30A - Canon Nikon 
Sigma Pentax Minolta (Fashion Valley) $35- 
Description: Metering options: Manual, 
Speed priority, Aperture priority. Manual 
power ratio - selectable: Full (1/1), 1/2, 1/4, 
1/8, 1/16, 1/32. Metering/distance table 
and TEST/charge indication button on 
back. Flash tilt angle: 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 
90 degrees (90 is straight up.) Swivel angle: 
zero to 180 degrees (both directions, left 
and right) Zoom selection: 28mm, 35mm, 
50mm, 85mmf/stop indicator (+ ISO, ASA 
value) Distance indicator Test button.
Takes 4 AA batteries. Up your photography 
game with this gem! Attach to your DSLR 
(digital single lens reflex) or ANY hot shoe 
-- doesn’t matter if you own Nikon, Canon, 
Sigma, Pentax, Minolta, etc... It works with 
ALL cameras. Very versatile! No need to 
break the bank for the ability to control 
your lighting. Compare to other Nikon or 
Canon flashes worth $300. Please do not 
ask me if these are available; I will delete 
this ad when sold. Listing ID: 91638198 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information.FURNITURE
For Sale: Dining Table and Chairs - $700- 
Dining table ($600) plus 4 chairs ($100) 
for sale $700. The table is white distressed 
painted wood with a grey zinc table top. 
Chairs are rattan in white with white 
cushion. Table measurements (76”l x 32”w 
x 29.5”h). Will sell separately. In great shape! 
Email me for more information. Thanks! 
Listing ID: 91824626 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Queen Pillowtop Mattress and Box Spring 
Set - $500- Jerome’s queen pillowtop mat -
tress and box spring set. Originally $900 
before tax. Bought it less than 9 months 
ago, never used without a waterproof pro -
tective cover, smoke free home. Selling 
because I’m upgrading to a tempur-pedic. 
$500 obo. Listing ID: 91824624 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
t
your vision,our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
ULTRAZONE LASER
TAG IS HIRING! 
WE ARE LOOKING FOR OUR 
NEXT GREAT EMPLOYEE for 
WEEKENDS and for SUMMER.  
Are you hard working? 
Dedicated? Really outgoing?  
You can actually have an 
exciting job!
Contact us at 
employment@
ultrazonesandiego.com.
State your name and contact cell number.
Axess course enrollment starts April 10, 2016
Interested?  Visit our website for program information.
ewssummer.stanford.eduSTANFORD
ENVIRONMENTAL
& WATER STUDIES
SUMMER PROGRAM
SMART CITIES
ENTREPRENEURSHIPINNOVATION
ENERGY WELL-BEING INDICATORS MEMBRANES DESIGN THINKINGSUSTAINABILITYPERSUASIVE COMMUNICATIONRESOURCESWATER
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGYJUNE 20 - AUGUST 13, 2016DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING
MATLABwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
allow the Seawolves to score a run 
until the rivals reached the bottom of 
the seventh inning. UCSD struggled 
offensively off Sonoma State’s junior 
starting pitcher Haydon Turpin, as 
he held the Tritons to only three hits 
and no runs scored in seven innings. 
Sonoma State’s only run of the game 
came in the seventh inning, as Mott 
surrendered a leadoff single on a 
3–2 count to put a man on first. Mott 
then got the next batter to ground 
out to the pitcher. But he failed to 
get the lead runner at second base 
as he took the out at first. With a runner on second and one 
out, Sonoma State senior infielder 
Brett Sesma hit a single, putting 
runners on the corners. A routine 
sacrifice fly scored the only run of 
the game for the Seawolves, giving 
them a 1–0 advantage. The Tritons 
failed to get a rally started and lost 
the game 1–0 with only three hits 
while the Seawolves beat them with 
their seven. 
UCSD will host San Francisco 
State for a three-game series next 
Saturday and Sunday with the first 
pitch on Saturday at 2 p.m.
The Tritons’ men’s golf team had 
a mediocre finish at the 43rd Hanny 
Stanislaus Invitational where UCSD 
placed 11th out of 16 teams Tuesday 
at the Turlock Golf and Country Club. 
UCSD ended the tournament 
with an 888 and (+24) over par, 
shooting a 297 in the third and final 
round on Tuesday, after shooting 
295 and 296 on Monday.
Seniors Clayton Yamaguchi and 
Daniel Yang finished tied for 22nd 
out of 88 golfers with Yamaguchi golfing 76–71–72 over three rounds, 
while Yang finished 71–76–72. Each 
scored 219 and 3–over par on the 
par–72 course. 
Other contributors to the Tritons 
were senior Jeff Roseth (T–30th, 
221), freshman Jake Haselden 
(T–72nd, 232) and freshman Drew 
Robbins (T–79, 236), for whom the 
tournament was a collegiate debut. 
Chico State won its third-
straight event by totaling a 14-under 
850, solidifying its ranking as the 
number one team in the country. 
No. 24 Sonoma State (857) had 
a strong finish at second, seven strokes behind the Wildcats, while 
tournament-host Stanislaus State 
(861) came in third.
The individual leader was 
Sonoma State junior Justin Shluker, 
who shot a 65–71–71 and leading 
beginning to end up 9-under with a 
207. Both with a 6-under 210, Chico 
State seniors Alistair Docherty and 
Lee Gearhart tied for second.
UCSD plays next at the 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Championship, April 
18–20 at Silverado, in Napa.GOLF
Tritons at Hanny Stanislaus Invitational
Two Triton golfers tied for 22nd, finishing eleventh out of the team of sixteen.
BY   D e v  J a i n
Sports Editor
readers can contact
Dev jain   dajain@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Samantha glantz   sglantz@ucsd.edu 
UCSD Is Back Home Against SF State
▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12
USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY MARCUS THUILLIER/ UCSD  GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITORS
MARCUS  THUILLIER & DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
BASEBALL
SOFTBALL
GOLFUCSD
UCSD
UCSDSonoma State
SF State
SF State3  0
0 6 6 5
1  42  1
2 5 0 2
2  3
11th out of 16UCSD now 29–17 after splitting double-header with CSU San Marcos.
Tritons get split series despite one-run victory in ﬁrst game.Tritons Down San Francisco State
Having just split its Friday games against San Francisco State, the 
UCSD softball team looked to take the series against its conference 
rivals and overtake them in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association standings. After sweeping the Gators and splitting their following 
doubleheader with Cal State San Marcos, the Tritons improved to 29–17 
overall and 19–13 in CCAA games.
Game One
Riding in off of their bounceback win against San Francisco State on 
Friday, the Tritons looked to take the lead in their series against the Gators. 
For the first few innings, however, the game remained quiet. Despite getting 
players on third base during the first and third innings, the Tritons couldn’t 
strike gold for the first half of the game. 
But thanks to the Tritons’ defense, the score remained flatlined until they 
finally converted one of their opportunities in the fourth inning. With bases 
loaded, freshman shortstop Maddy Lewis, sophomore outfielder Kendall 
Woken and senior shortstop McKenna Clewett all found their ways home to 
put the Tritons up 3–0 by the end of the fourth inning. 
With that, the Tritons held onto the shutout for the remaining three 
innings, while adding another three runs to their lead. UCSD’s offense 
remained balanced throughout the game, with all five runs batted in by 
different players. Senior left-handed pitcher Lexi Edwards was credited with 
the win, allowing eight hits and zero runs against 26 at bats. Even with the 
eight hits allowed, the defense held its ground, leading to a terrific 6–0 shutout. 
Game Two
In a game that was called short due to time, UCSD clearly had the Gators’ 
number. Distancing themselves from their previous approach of scoring in 
bunches, the Tritons produced a steady stream of offense, scoring in each 
of the first four innings. Lewis kept her contributions coming, as she led the 
offense with two RBIs off of sacrifice flies.
Heading into the final inning up comfortable 5–0, the Tritons loosened 
their grip on the Gators a bit, erasing their dreams of a second straight shutout. 
San Francisco State cut the deficit by two, but the Tritons ultimately closed out 
the game with the win. 
Senior right-handed pitcher Hannah Duarte was credited with the win, 
allowing just four hits and two runs against 19 at bats. Sophomore outfielder 
Kelsi Maday finished with an impressive one hit, one run and one RBI statline 
while senior outfielder Taylor Abeyta matched Maday’s impressive output and 
adding two walks to the mix.
“We knew this was an important series and we had to play well, ” UCSD 
Head Coach Patti Gerckens told the athletics department. “We really 
competed well today and had some strong pitching from Lexi and Hannah. ”
After the sweep, the Gators fell to 23–20 overall and 17–13 in the CCAA.Game Three
After a day of rest, the softball team was back at it again in its first afternoon 
stint with Cal State San Marcos. Unfortunately, the offense cooled down after 
its off day, as the Tritons failed to capitalize on any of their opportunities.
Starting with the second inning, the Tritons had no trouble getting 
players on base as indicated by their five total hits and one walk for the 
game. But the Tritons also wound up leaving seven players on base, which, 
when combined with the team’s single run for the entire game, tells a 
startling tale of missed opportunity.
Due to the close, grind-it-out nature of the game, however, a single run 
was all that it took to bring the Tritons within striking distance. Thanks to 
a single by Abeyta, sophomore second-baseman Kendall Baker was able to 
make a dash to home plate for a nail-biting one-run game. Unfortunately, 
UCSD was not able to rekindle the magic that sparked its offense in its 
previous two games and fell to the Cougars 2–1.
Game Four
Eager for redemption, the Tritons fought hammer and tongs in 
their immediate rematch with the Cougars. As if they had just 
woken from a trance, the Triton offense quickly got into gear, 
scoring a run in the first inning thanks to a single by 
sophomore catcher Lauren Sanders, allowing 
Lewis to run to home. From then on, the 
game turned into a back-and-forth duel, 
with each team scoring two runs in the 
following innings.
After a single from Abeyta enabled both 
Maday and Baker to put runs on the board, the Tritons 
held the lead for the rest of the game and eventually ended with 
a 4–3 UCSD victory.
Abeyta continued her stellar play with two RBIs, two hits and a 
walk-off of three at bats, while Baker led the team in hits and runs 
with three and two, respectively. Junior left-handed pitcher Milana 
Casillas, however, took credit for the win, as she allowed two 
hits and zero runs after replacing Duarte in the first inning.
Following the split, the Cougars are now 10–30 overall 
and 7–23 in CCAA games.
UCSD will host Cal State San Bernardino in back-
to-back double-headers on April 15 and 16.
The UCSD Tritons and Sonoma State Seawolves 
split a doubleheader on Sunday, March 10 after 
heavy rain on Saturday limited the series to only 
two games instead of three. Game one was in the Tritons’ 
favor as they won 3–2 on seven hits. The Seawolves 
took game two by a final score of 1–0 as they scored 
the winning run in the seventh inning on a sacrifice fly. 
After splitting this pair of games with the Seawolves, the 
Tritons now hold a 23–13 overall record with a 13–11 
record in California Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
The Seawolves are now 13–16 overall with an 11–7 record 
in league play. UCSD is ranked second in the Southern 
Division of the CCAA while Sonoma State moved up to 
the top-ranked spot in the Northern, right behind Chico 
State which lost this past weekend.
Game One
Head Coach Eric Newman gave freshman right-
handed pitcher Kyle Mora the ball in game one where 
he threw 4.2 innings, holding the Seawolves to one run 
on six hits. Freshman right-handed pitcher Tim Nelson 
entered the game in the eighth inning as a closer for the 
Tritons and managed to hold on to the 3–2 lead as he 
earned his fifth win of the season. 
The Tritons struck first in the top of the first inning 
as redshirt junior leadoff hitter Brandon Shirley took 
advantage of a free base as he was hit by a pitch. Shirley 
then stole second base, putting him in scoring position. 
With one out, junior outfielder Jack Larson hit a base 
hit through the right side to score speedy Shirley from 
second base. 
Sonoma State struggled hitting off of Mora, as it 
only had two hits through the first three innings of 
the game. The Tritons pushed another run across the board 
in the top of the third inning after senior outfielder 
Gradeigh Sanchez had a leadoff walk. Larsen then 
followed with his second hit of the game to right field, 
putting runners on the corners for sophomore infielder 
Tyler Plantier. Plantier executed and scored the Tritons’ 
second run of the game with a deep sacrifice fly which 
allowed Sanchez to score from third base. 
The Seawolves managed to score their first run of 
the game during the fourth inning after Mora gave up a 
leadoff base hit to the Seawolves’ senior third baseman 
Ryan O’Malley. Once Mora got the next batter to fly 
out, O’Malley stole second base, putting him in scoring 
position. Sonoma State’s senior cleanup hitter Adam 
Manzer hit a base hit up the middle, easily scoring 
O’Malley from second base, making the game 2–1. 
Sonoma State tied the game up in the bottom of the 
eighth inning as Nelson gave up back-to-back hits. The 
Tritons demonstrated “textbook baseball” in the top of 
the ninth, as redshirt sophomore catcher Steven Coe hit 
a single to start the inning off, followed by a sacrifice 
bunt by junior infielder Tyler Howsley. After a Shirley 
strikeout, Sanchez hit a two-out base hit to center field, 
scoring the winning run for the Tritons. Nelson shut 
the Seawolves down in the bottom of the ninth inning 
to secure the win.
Sanchez then went 2–3 with two walks, one run 
batted in, one run scored and one steal while Larsen 
was 2–5 with an RBI and a stolen base.  
Game Two
Freshman left-handed pitcher Preston Mott started 
the game on the mound for the Tritons as he did not Written by  Alex Wu // Senior Staff Writer
Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  
Written by Samantha Glantz // Senior Staff Writer Photo by  Megan Lee  // Photo EditorUCSD Falls Short in Second Game
See BASEBALL , page 11UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Rowing
Softball
W. Water Polo
Softball
Baseball4/15
4/15
4/15
4/16
4/16VS San Diego State
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS California Baptist
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS San Francisco State
