VOLUME 49, ISSUE 57   MONDA Y , MA Y 23, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BUDGET 
AWARENESS
WHILE STATE FUNDING PER 
STUDENT HAS DROPPED 
BY MORE THAN HALF SINCE 
2001, STUDENT TUITION HAS 
MORE THAN DOUBLED. BUT 
ARE STUDENTS AWARE OF 
HOW THE UNIVERSITY GETS 
ITS FUNDING? THE GUARDIAN 
INVESTIGATES.
POSSIBLE  BAN  ON  RA VES 
SOFTBALL SEASON  RECAPPUBLIC  SAFETY  VERSUS   REVENUE
men's tennis  out a t s weet 16OPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 67 L 57TUESDAY
H 68 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 57THURSDAY
H 68 L 57
FORECAST
VERBATIM
BETTER JOB SECURITY IN 
THE FORM OF LONGER 
APPOINTMENTS IS GOOD 
FOR SCIENCE. LONGER 
APPOINTMENTS ENABLE 
POSTDOCS TO WORK 
ON THEIR RESEARCH 
UNINTERRUPTED BY HAVING 
TO GET A NEW APPOINTMENT 
EVERY FEW MONTHS.”
- Tomas Bos
OP-ED
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  .....2
SNAPCHAT FILTERS ........  3
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MEN’S TENNIS  .............. 11 FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ART BY ALEX LIANG / GUARDIAN
UCSD A.S. Elections Committee 
extended the voting period for the 
Division-I referendum this week 
due to technical difficulties. The 
vote, originally scheduled to end 
last Friday, will open one last time 
today starting at 10 a.m. and will 
close at 11:59 p.m.
According to A.S. Elections 
Manager Claire Maniti, the reason 
for the extension was that the 
server used to track votes had 
suffered a complication, causing it to go down last Monday.
“We lost the first day of voting 
due to a major issue with a campus 
server, which affected multiple 
departments on campus including 
our Financial Aid Office, ” Maniti told 
the UCSD Guardian.
Maniti added that the Elections 
Committee made the decision 
to open up the polls once more 
to ensure that students have five 
academic days to vote, as was 
originally planned.
“The fairest way to move forward 
with extending the deadline is to give 
the full Monday in order to decide whether or not the campus should 
move to increase the ICA Activity Fee 
to move to Division I, ” Maniti said.
The referendum vote will decide 
if UCSD will implement a quarterly 
fee increase that in three years will 
level out at $289.38 — $160 more 
than it is currently — in order to 
qualify for Division-I athletics. 
Maniti said that the results will be 
announced on Tuesday morning, 
following a final grievance hearing 
starting at 7 a.m.Academic 
Senate Votes 
to Divest from 
Fossil FuelsUCSD
UCSD is now the second 
campus to call for an end to 
the UC system’s investment 
in fossil fuel companies.
BY   P r o m i t a  N a n dy
UCSD’s Academic Senate passed 
a resolution on May 17 urging the 
UC Board of Regents to divest from 
companies “whose primary business 
concerns the extraction and sale of 
fossil fuels. ” This makes UCSD the 
second UC campus, following UC 
Santa Barbara, to pass a resolution of 
this kind. 
UCSD professor of neuroscience 
and a leader of the Fossil Free UC 
campaign Eric Halgren told the UCSD 
Guardian that the primary motivation 
for passing this resolution is the 
negative impact that burning fossil 
fuels has on the environment.
“The carbon we are dumping into 
the atmosphere will remain there for 
hundreds of years, ” Halgren told the 
UCSD Guardian. “ About 80% of the 
[carbon-based fuel sources] in the 
ground will have to stay there, or cities 
home to hundreds of millions of people 
will be underwater, literally millions of 
species will go extinct, and billions 
of people will be exposed to extreme 
weather events including famine-
creating droughts and devastating 
hurricanes and flooding. ”
Halgren added that as a result of 
the growing awareness of the causes 
and effects of climate change, the value 
of fossil fuel stocks are decreasing, 
causing investors to lose money.
“Eventually, these stocks will 
lose their value, as coal stocks 
already have, and the University of 
California’s investments in them 
will become close to worthless, ” 
Halgren said. “[For example] the 
other California state retirement 
investment funds lost around $840 
million when they sold their coal 
stocks, and have lost about $5.1 
billion on fossil fuel stocks overall. ”
The money from these investments 
supports the retirement pensions of UC 
employees as well as the endowments 
that pay for many scholarships, among 
other things. 
UCSD psychology professor Adam 
Aron, another leader of the Fossil Free 
UC campaign, explained that in order 
to convince the UC Regents to stop 
investing in fossil fuel companies, 
more action must be taken by all of the 
UC schools.
“It’s not a question of UCSD 
investments, but of UC investments, ” 
Aron explained to the Guardian. “[The 
UC system] is very unlikely to divest 
just because faculty at UCSB and 
UCSD [and UCSC] voted yes on this, 
but if most or all schools do, then that 
increases the likelihood. ”UCSD will permanently close the University Art 
Gallery this summer and convert it into a classroom, 
which will make UCSD the only UC campus 
without an official art gallery. Executive Vice Chancellor 
Suresh Subramani and Division of Arts and Humanities 
Dean Cristina Della Coletta made the announcement in a 
May 20 press release, citing the need for more classroom 
space as the student body continues to grow.
“Proposals to fund the gallery have been put forward 
recently, but the university must evaluate these options in 
the context of other pressing needs, ” the release stated. We 
will add approximately 1,300 students in 2016-17, and UC 
San Diego has a mandate to further increase enrollments in 
the two years that follow. Such increases impact our spatial 
needs on campus — more students need more classroom 
space. Although new classrooms are planned to come online 
over the next few years, the immediate need means we must 
repurpose existing space. The gallery space is among those 
sites that will serve UC San Diego students as classrooms in 
the near term. ”
The Collective Magpie — comprised of artists and 
UCSD graduates Tae Hwang and MR Barnadas — are 
hosting a “shared gesture” at the UAG until June 2nd 
titled “Dispossessed: A Call to Prayer and Protest” to 
raise awareness about its closure, which they described 
as “devaluing the arts and disavowing, disrupting, and 
obscuring its rich artistic legacy. ” The exhibit includes an “X” spray-painted across the gallery’s front door — “the 
cautioning mark placed on buildings indicating hazardous 
interiors, ” according to the Facebook event page. 
Furthermore, items collected from around campus 
will be placed inside the gallery after being “processed 
and marked with red ink with the dates of the gallery’s 
inception and closure. ” Other artists will also be performing 
and installing their own pieces throughout the duration of 
the show.
Hwang spoke with the UCSD Guardian about the 
purpose of the exhibit, which she hopes will raise awareness 
regarding the closing of the space.
“We wanted this exhibition to serve as a platform, ” 
Hwang said. “We’re using this space as a call to action, to 
bring attention to the art gallery’s closing. I don’t know if it’s 
going to change anything … [but] I at least think it is good 
to have some type of visibility. ”
Visual arts professor Ricardo Dominguez lamented the 
loss of the UAG, saying that it diminishes the importance 
of studies not related to science and technology on campus.
“It creates an atmosphere in which the university can 
question the importance of the arts and humanities, ” 
Dominguez said. “This atmosphere then allows the 
university to start considering the arts and humanities as 
not part of the conversation. ” 
Co-director of the UAG Farshid Bazmandegan told the 
Guardian that the gallery’s impending closure has tarnished B y  jacky to      news editorCAMPUS
Elections Committee Extends Referendum Vote 
The added day compensates for the loss of the first day of voting due to technical difficulties.See UAG , page 2
UCSD
BY  J O S H   L E F L E R
See RESOLUTION , page 2Photo by Christian Duarte /UCSD Guardian
University to Permanently 
Close Campus Art Gallery
josh   Lefler  what should have been a celebratory 
year as the 50th anniversary of the 
gallery’s opening.
Prior to Subramani and Della 
Coletta’s announcement, the university 
had put the gallery on indefinite hold 
last summer until reopening on May 
5 for the undergraduate art show titled 
“Meeting at Square One. ” According 
to Bazmandegan, over 500 people 
attended the show.
Chair of the visual arts department 
Jack Greenstein told the Guardian that 
he had been coordinating next year’s 
shows when his superiors began to 
signal that the UAG was closing.
“I had been planning and working 
with people putting together a series 
of shows for next year, which we were 
going to ask for permission to hold, 
and I was discouraged from asking for that permission, ” Greenstein stated.
University administrators did, 
however, approve his proposal 
to extend the duration of the 
undergraduate show to the end of the 
quarter. But by the time they did so, the 
art pieces had already been uninstalled 
from the gallery. 
“While it was open, we were 
presented with the opportunity to 
move the MFA show to the Museum 
of Contemporary Art San Diego on 
Kettner St, ” Greenstein said. “This 
seemed like an extremely good 
opportunity, and after consulting with 
some of the other faculty, we decided 
to go ahead and do that. ”
The Facebook event page added 
that the visual arts department will 
continue to resist the closure of such 
spaces pertaining to its studies.UC Santa Cruz faculty also 
passed a resolution on May 18 
requesting the Regents to stop 
investing in fossil fuel companies. 
In 2013,  Associated Students at all 
eight UC campuses passed similar 
resolutions and petitioned the UC 
Regents to divest from fossil fuels, 
but the UC Office of the President 
rejected the petition, calling it too 
restrictive. 
Muir College junior Mukta 
Kelkar, who serves as the co-director 
of the UCSD Student Sustainability 
Collective, argued that students 
are indirectly supporting the fossil 
fuel investment because some of 
the money that is invested into the 
companies comes from our tuition.
“UCSD students pay tuition and 
fees that then go into an endowment 
fund governed by the UC Regents, who then invest that money, ” Kelkar 
says. “When the University of 
California divests from fossil fuels, 
the tuition and fees students pay will 
no longer be invested in companies 
that are destroying our planet. ”
Senior Erin McMullen, who also 
serves as co-director of the SSC, 
added that the money we currently 
invest in fossil fuel companies can 
be redirected towards renewable 
energy companies. 
Students who are interested in 
supporting this initiative can sign 
the petition at www.fossilfreeucsd.
org or like the Fossil Free UCSD 
Facebook page. They can also attend 
Student Sustainability Collective 
meetings at the Sustainability 
Resource Center next to Price 
Center Theater.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or 
Associated Students. Josh. Your phone is here.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Co-Editor
 
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Vanessa Wong
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebas
Regents Park Row
La Jolla Village DriveGenesseeRegents RoadExecutive Dr.
Dr. Wali Hamidy, D.M.D.
4150 Regents Park Row, #200, La Jolla, CA 92037
(858) 202-0481
lajolladentalimage.com
• Same Day Emergency               
Appointment Available
• We accept all PPOs and                   
UCSD Insurance Plans
• Financing Available OAC.New Patient Special
Regular Cleaning,* 
Exam & Digital X-Rays  
Only $60
*In absence of gum disease. Regular price $310. Expires June 30, 2017.
 Friendly and Knowledgeable Dentist and Staff
Avoid Cavities and Keep Your Teeth
Increase Your Confidence and Smile More
We will Listen to Your Concerns & Explain OptionsHealthy T eeth and Gums Are Important For Your Overall Health!
We 
welcome 
UCSD Staff 
& StudentsDisease of the Week: Rat Lungworm
By Karly Nisson // Senior Staff Writer // knisson@ucsd.edu
Researchers from UCSD’s 
department of ophthalmology 
announced a puzzling discovery in 
a Winter 2013 issue of the Retinal 
Cases and Brief Reports journal. At 
age 11, a girl from Vietnam reported 
decreased vision in her left eye, a 
condition she had developed from 
a severe fever at age four. Doctors 
examining the interior of her eye 
found a golden lesion in her fovea, a 
depression in the retina where vision 
is clearest. Something had burrowed 
into her eye. After monitoring the 
young woman for 13 years, researchers 
narrowed the diagnosis down to 
three possible parasitic infestations: 
ophthalmomyiasis from a botfly, 
Gnathostoma or Angiostrongylus. 
While images of the former two — 
maggots and worms nestled in the 
back of the eye, respectively — aren’t 
entirely pleasant, the latter can have far 
more devastating consequences. 
Angiostrongylus, more commonly 
known as Rat Lungworm Disease, is 
caused by a parasitic nematode, or 
roundworm, carried by certain slugs 
and snails. While people throughout 
the world have been infected with the parasite, the majority of cases occur 
in Asia and the Pacific Islands. Many 
known hosts of the nematode are 
common in the U.S., and scientists 
have detected the parasite in Louisiana, 
Florida and Hawaii. While it hasn’t 
been found in California yet, it could 
easily be introduced if these hosts 
are accidentally shipped here from 
infected areas. 
The lifestyle of the parasite consists 
of three stages and requires two hosts. 
In the first stage, nematode larvae 
infect slugs and snails; once inside these 
intermediate hosts, the worms enter the 
second stage and shed their protective 
shells twice. After both molt, the larvae 
reach their third developmental stage, 
at which they become infective. When 
the slugs and snails are eaten, typically 
by rats, the infective roundworms then 
burrow their way to the brain where 
they mature. They then travel to the 
pulmonary artery, which carries blood 
from the heart to the lungs, where the 
parasites then become sexually active 
and lay eggs. The eggs eventually 
hatch, and when these newborn, first-
stage larvae exit the rat through its 
feces, the cycle starts over. Human infection is thus incidental 
— though they are affected by the 
parasite, they can’t transmit it. Because 
the worm’s reproductive cycle isn’t 
adapted to humans, the worms don’t 
know where to migrate once they 
have entered a person’s body. Those 
that don’t reach the brain end up 
wandering, causing hemorrhaging 
as they burrow through tissues. To 
the misfortune of the young woman 
from Vietnam, the parasites may have 
wandered all the way to the eye. 
But as gruesome as an eye-
residing worm might sound, 
the woman may have survived a 
potentially fatal infection. Many of 
the nematodes do make it to the 
brain as they do in rats, but die 
once they get there because they 
lack any mechanism of escaping the 
brain lining. When they try to enter 
the bloodstream to complete their 
life cycle, they get caught in this 
lining and die, causing the tissue to 
swell and press up against the brain. 
The resulting symptoms are those of 
eosinophilic meningitis, a dangerous 
and often deadly infection marked 
by a stiff neck, nausea, vomiting and severe headaches. 
As drastic as the disease is, however, 
it’s often difficult to diagnose because 
there are no available blood tests and 
treatments are virtually nonexistent. 
Consequently, the best way to survive 
the disease is to avoid contracting the 
parasite in the first place. This can be 
done by avoiding the consumption 
of undercooked mollusks and certain 
crustaceans in infected areas. Slugs 
and snails have the habit of leaving 
trails of shiny slime over greens — 
whether these slime trails actually 
transmit the parasite is contended, 
but washing raw vegetables before 
consumption is a safe precaution. 
In recent years, the disease has 
become one of particular concern in 
Hawaii, with 38 of 42 reported U.S. 
cases occurring in the island state. 
This past February, Hawaiian Senate 
committees cleared a proposed bill that 
would work to protect citizens from 
contracting the entirely preventable 
disease. The bill would contribute $1.4 
million to rat lungworm research at 
the University of Hawaii at Hilo in 
an effort to develop treatments and 
prevent the disease from spreading. 
Art Gallery Will Officially Close on June 2 Three UCs Call for Fossil Fuel Divestment
▶ UAG,  from page 1 ▶ RESOLUTION,  from page 1
Promit a  Nand y   jacky to   NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Concerns have been raised about 
Snapchat’s recent “beautifying” filters. 
For example, filters such as the flower 
crown don’t merely apply a flower 
crown upon the user’s head, but 
also smooth out and change facial 
features. In particular, they lighten 
skin, make eyes larger and noses 
narrower. With as many as 23 percent 
of Snapchat’s users being between 
13 to 17 years old, there is a risk that 
this kind of altered image can lead to 
lowered self-esteem and more body 
image issues. Much criticism has 
also been directed toward Snapchat’s 
Bob Marley filter as a form of “digital 
blackface. ” Its release on April 20 
has also been criticised for playing 
into racial stereotypes; Snapchat 
has responded that it intended no 
disrespect by its filter. Snapchat has 
not, however, responded to any of the 
criticism about its beautifying filters. 
The app service should both remove 
them and think more carefully 
about the impact of its filters before 
designing and releasing new ones in 
the future.
Apart from reinforcing a singular 
image of beauty, of unblemished skin 
and of defined facial features — one 
already so toxically prevalent in the 
media — these manipulations have 
also been criticized for reinforcing 
the idea of beauty as white and Eurocentric. On social media 
platforms like Twitter, many people 
of color have spoken out about how 
significantly white they look under 
Snapchat’s filters — sometimes almost 
uncannily so. One user tweeted: 
“very disturbed by the fact that your 
“beautification” filters make my skin 
lighter and my nose and jaw smaller. ”
Whitewashing is already ingrained 
in American society in many ways, 
including Caucasian actors being 
cast in Asian roles. Emma Stone was 
recently cast in a half-Asian role for 
the movie “ Aloha, ” which is set in 
Hawaii. Beyond that, the rest of the 
supporting cast is entirely Caucasian.
Turning to look at the ideal 
beauty type in some Asian 
countries, filters on Korea’s LINE 
app, like “Baby” and “Healthy, ” also 
whiten and smooth skin. “Purikura” 
photo booths in Japan are also 
popular among teenagers and 
automatically retouch photos so that 
skin is whiter and eyes are larger, even going as far as to elongate 
legs and body proportions. Many 
cosmetics, like lotion, makeup and 
even deodorant, are marketed in 
Asian countries as “whitening”; 
this extends to whitening clinics 
and skin treatments. In all of these 
examples, a singular image of 
beauty is very clear. Though some 
features, like enlarged eyes, may 
be seen as distinctly Caucasian 
features, pale and unblemished skin 
has always been an ideal in many 
Asian countries.
Even though the case in 
Asia is less related to race and 
whitewashing, it is useful to look 
at evidence of how these kinds 
of photo retouching and filtering 
can reinforce both conscious and 
subconscious effects on our ideas 
of “beauty. ” The skincare market 
in China is worth over U.S. $5.5 
billion, and in India, the market 
for skin-whitening cosmetics is 
worth over $432 million. Most users may take Purikura and LINE as 
lighthearted fun, but as evidenced 
by how much money is made off 
of cosmetics and treatments that 
effectively sell this ideal, it is clear 
that regardless of the intentions 
of the creators of the photobooths 
and apps and what the users think, 
these filters ultimately have a large 
impact in perpetuating certain 
ideals and expectations of beauty. 
So, whether well-intentioned or not, 
“beautifying” filters ultimately do 
perpetuate a certain image of beauty 
with a very big impact, and in 
Snapchat’s case, beauty is portrayed 
as being white.
Snapchat is not unique in 
being the only digital beautifying 
app, and this phenomenon is not 
limited to the United States. No 
matter what the intentions behind 
Snapchat’s “beautifying” filters are, 
the criticism against the company 
is very valid. And as evidenced by 
the whitening ideals in many Asian 
countries, they have very real effects 
of subconsciously perpetuating a 
certain idea of beauty. In an effort 
to reject or, at least, refrain from 
promoting Eurocentric beauty 
standards, Snapchat should remove 
these filters and in the future, think 
more critically about the possible 
implications of the filters it creates 
and releases.See RAVES, page 5Since the 1980s, raves have offered teenagers and young adults 
an alternative place to expand their minds through electronic dance 
music, dancing, and recreational drug use. Although many attendees 
will note that a large majority of those attending these events are 
sober, many guests, especially young adults, will consume MDMA, 
methamphetamines, and other psychoactive drugs while at raves. 
Over the last three years, four people have died of drug overdoses 
while attending the Live Nation Events, Beyond Wonderland and 
Nocturnal Wonderland held at the San Manuel Amphitheater in San 
Bernardino County. Citizens within San Bernardino have pushed 
officials since 2013 to restrict the amount of these events taking place 
within county borders, citing increasing drug use, hospital visits, 
and deaths. A similar measure to ban raves outright was overturned 
in Los Angeles County after the deaths of two teenage girls at the 
Hard Summer event at the Pomona fairgrounds in August 2015. It is 
the county and event promoter’s responsibility to ensure the safety 
of attendees, but when safety comes at the expense of losing out 
on a multi-million dollar contract, things become a bit messier for 
city officials. The security of those attending these events should be 
county officials’ main concern, not a loss of revenue.
Nocturnal Wonderland and Beyond Wonderland are two of the 
largest raves in the country, with Nocturnal Wonderland attracting 
over 85,000 people (over three times the undergraduate population 
of UCSD). Boasting artists like Afrojack, David Guetta, and Calvin 
Harris, attendees will pay upwards of $200 for a single weekend of fun. Citizens living near the amphitheatre have complained about 
the presence of the raves since San Bernardino County and Live 
Nation reached a deal in 2013. Excessive noise that shakes their 
windows, disturbs their animals and the frequent urination and 
defecation of their properties by rave goers are frequent complaints. 
San Bernardino County Supervisor Janice Rutherford is behind the 
proposed ban and noted that that the residents are overwhelmed 
by the amount of noise into late hours of the night, and that it is 
“impeding their lives. ”
Beyond just the noise complaints from neighbors, community 
members have called for county officials implement tighter security 
measures at the events.  At the Beyond Wonderland two day 
event in March 2015, over 300 people were arrested for offenses 
including public intoxication, trespassing, and the possession of 
Ecstasy for sale. Thirty-two people were taken to nearby hospitals, 
and a twenty-two year old University of California, Irvine student 
died of an Ecstasy overdose. Since 2006, there have been at least 
twenty-three confirmed drug-related deaths nationwide of people 
attending raves. Within that number, eleven were in Southern 
California, with seven occuring in LA county properties and 
four happening on San Bernardino owned property. Obviously, 
something needs to be changed.
 Although security has been amped up among the festival sites, 
the lack of a standard of safety across all raves happening within 
county or state borders is a serious problem. A minimum age limit As a postdoctoral researcher, I’m 
used to encountering challenges in 
RNA biology, but I never imagined 
an administrative issue — short 
appointments — would create so many 
challenges for my research.
University of California postdocs 
make valuable contributions in 
discovery and dollars — we publish 
thousands of papers each year, help 
bring in nearly $6 billion in research 
grants and contracts, and drive 
innovation and economic growth 
within the UC system. 
After four years of research, I’m 
getting close to publishing the paper 
that represents the culmination of my 
work as a postdoc — an in-depth study 
of RNA binding proteins. Having too 
many or not enough of these proteins 
can make people sick and cause 
diseases like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, 
diabetes and cancer. 
My research is highly technical 
and, as is the case for most postdocs, 
it has taken years to produce. It’s 
a commitment to say the least 
and knowing how important the 
contribution will be is part of what 
keeps me going. The large data set 
I’m creating will benefit researchers 
anywhere who are trying to understand 
and cure neurodegenerative diseases.
Despite our lengthy research 
projects, each postdoc’s initial 
appointment is only required to be a 
minimum of one year in length. For 
me, and for the majority of postdocs, 
that means multiple appointments 
are required to complete research. 
Further complicating that process, the 
University holds sole discretion over 
whether or not to re-appoint a postdoc 
to their research position. 
Since I arrived here from Belgium, 
most of my contract extensions have 
been for only six months at a time 
(and I am aware of postdocs who have 
received even shorter appointments). 
These short appointments caused an 
incredible amount of stress — about 
whether I could finish my research, 
maintain my relationships and even 
whether I could sign a lease for an 
apartment. 
Better job security in the form 
of longer appointments is good for 
science. Longer appointments enable 
postdocs to work on their research 
uninterrupted by having to get a new 
appointment every few months. Not to 
mention, it’s hard to focus on abstract 
or complex material when consumed 
by basic survival anxieties.
And, the reappointment process 
doesn’t just create stress for postdocs. 
It’s also an administrative nightmare 
for UC, which processes paperwork for 
2,100 reappointments each year. 
Studies show postdocs with more 
job security publish 20 percent more 
papers, produce twice as many patents 
and win more academic prizes. 
Postdocs with better job security can 
also take on riskier research endeavors, 
and as a result, are three times as likely 
to produce research that significantly 
impacts public policy. 
And we know increased job security 
is linked with better worker health and 
well-being, safer workplaces, and better 
work-life balance.
I sought out the University of 
California system for the opportunity 
to work with world-class faculty in 
world-renowned facilities but UC’s 
policies on appointments for postdocs 
are harming research. By guaranteeing 
longer appointments, UC can improve 
job security for postdocs, add value 
to our research potential and invest in 
better research outcomes for the UC.The Harm in 
Short Research
Appointments
Through Whitening Filters, Snapchat Promotes Eurocentric Beauty Standards
BY NUNNAPAT RATANAVANH // 
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
NUNNAP A T RA T ANA V ANH
Despite issues of  high arrest rates, inadequate security and drug overdoses, the 
bans on raves proposed within San Bernandino County and passed in Los 
Angeles County fail to address the urgent and high-priority issue of  safety.BY MEGAN MONGES  //  SENIOR STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSONSAFETY  OVER   REVENUE:
The  Blasphemy  in 
 banning  ra ves
In an effort to reject or, at least, refrain 
from promoting white and Eurocentric 
beauty standards, Snapchat should remove 
these filters and in the future think more 
critically about the possible implications of  
the filters they create and release.
 OP-ED
TOMAS   BOS 
POST-DOCTORAL  RESEARCHER
RNA-BINDING   PROTEINOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
is set on a case by case basis, not a 
universal requirement. Until 2013 
when a fifteen year old died of 
an overdose at the Electric Daisy 
Carnival event at the LA Coliseum, 
sixteen and over was the common 
age requirement for most raves. 
Despite the presence of drug sniffing 
dogs and safe surrender bins at rave 
entrances, people are still doing 
drugs at an alarming rate while at 
these events. 
The question is a matter between the county’s responsibility to ensure 
the safety of those attending events 
on public property and the revenue  
they receive from hosting the same 
events. Live Nation, and their 
subsidiary company, Insomniac 
Events, are the largest rave promoters 
in the United States, leading a billion 
dollar business. Although the exact 
details of their contracts with LA 
county and San Bernardino county 
are unknown, it is estimated that 
both benefit substantially from 
their deals to host raves on county 
property. If Janice Rutherford and San Bernardino citizens get their 
way, the county looks to lose out on a 
considerable amount of money. 
Banning raves from San 
Bernardino county will not solve the 
drug problem and high arrest rates 
associated with these events. Banning 
raves from one county will just ensure 
that promoters will take their events 
to other cities and counties across the 
country, bringing the same problems. 
With larger counties proposing 
ordinances that prohibit  raves, 
promoters will be forced to take their 
events into smaller and more desolate areas. The safety of those attending 
these events should be of the utmost 
importance rather than where raves 
are banned; this should take priority 
over city revenue or noise complaints. 
It is only when safety and security 
measures are reconsidered and put in 
place that raves will be beneficial for 
the county, community, and ravers. 
After all, raves were built upon the 
principles of P .L.U.R. — Peace, Love, 
Unity, and Respect.Regional Banning of  Raves Encourages Promoters to Relocate Rather Than T o Address Safety Concerns
▶ RAVES from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
MEGAN  MONGESLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
 Y our May 11th editorial foolishly 
called on the university to prevent 
Greek students from receiving 
campus-sponsored scholarships 
because fraternities and sororities 
discriminate on the basis of sex. Y our 
call to action is unconstitutional at a 
public university like UC San Diego. 
The First Amendment prohibits state 
actors like UCSD from punishing 
a student based on the people or 
groups that a student associates 
with. Just like the university can’t 
revoke scholarships from members 
of the Guardian or the Koala, it can’t 
withhold scholarships from students 
who choose to join a fraternity or 
sorority. Students are allowed to 
join discriminatory groups, and the 
university cannot punish them for it 
in any way, not even by withholding 
scholarship eligibility. The course 
of action you recommended is 
literally against the law — and for 
good reason. If the university had 
the power to withhold scholarships 
from students in blacklisted clubs, 
fewer students would join ANY clubs, 
since any club with any membership 
criteria could eventually end up on 
the blacklist. By your standards, all 
Mormon or Catholic students would 
be barred from scholarship eligibility 
since they joined groups with sex-
discriminatory policies: Only males can 
hold the priesthood in either church.    
This was the second editorial in a 
row where the Guardian demonstrates 
a callous misunderstanding of how 
free speech works in the United 
States. The same First Amendment 
that allows the Guardian to ask the 
school to do unconstitutional things 
also prevents UCSD from punishing 
students who join unpopular groups. 
Daniel Watts
Warren, class of 2006To the editor: 
UCSD  4.6875” W x 8” H
Designed for working professionals, this program prepares students for 
careers in applied behavioral analysis (ABA).
Having gained the knowledge and experience necessary to treat children 
and adults with autism spectrum disorders, graduates are highly 
competent practitioners in a high-growth field.To transform lives.
Her strategy: A 
Master of Science 
in Behavioral 
Psychology  
from Pepperdine.ana’s   ambition:
To start your transformation, get in touch today.
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu SE1602043 MS BehSci Ads.indd   10 2/17/16   4:42 PM
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Illustration by Alex Liang
When the 2008 financial crisis hit, many students became at least slightly more frugal 
than they had been before. The same can be said about the state of California when 
it comes to funding, but the decline in funding precedes 2008. From 1990–2013, 
per student expenditures provided by the state dropped by 58.7 percent in total, hitting the 
UC system hard. By 2013, the UC system relied on the same absolute level of funding it did 
in 1997–1998, even though it oversaw many additional programs, one additional campus and 
73,000 more students. 
The three years following the 2008 economic crisis influenced the response of the UC 
Board of Regents and individual UC campuses alike. Academic and administrative units 
were assigned cuts ranging from 6 to 35 percent. The eliminated or consolidated programs 
saved the UC system $155 million. This resulted in a total of 3,618 layoffs and 3,700 positions 
remaining unfilled or being eliminated altogether. Moreover, over the next four years UC 
enrollment was reduced by 8,000–10,000 students while student tuition and fees increased. 
In 2001, student tuition and fees accounted for only about 18.8 percent of expenditures 
per student while state general funds accounted for 72 percent. But today, according to the 
University of California’s 2016–17 Budget for Current Operations and Three-Year Financial 
Sustainability Plan, this gap has been significantly narrowed over the past 15 years, as student 
tuition and fees account for 46.3 percent while state general funds account for only 39.26 
percent. 
In other words, students and their families have to provide for a much larger portion of the 
costs of their education. An increase in student fees is largely due to the loss in state fees for 
the past 15 years. The financial burden today lies heavily on students and their families.  
In order to see if students were feeling the impact, the UCSD Guardian anonymously 
surveyed 82 students and asked them to estimate the change in percentage of state versus  
▶ See BUDGET AND TUITION  , page 8Out  of  our  w allets:  Where  the  university  Gets  its  Funding
Everyone knows UC tuition rates are high, as students pay more and the state pays less. But how aware are students of where the university gets its money? And is the university taking 
any steps to alleviate this problem? The UCSD Guardian sets out to investigate.
Written by Noam Leead // Staff Writer  Visualizations by Ayat Amin // Data Visualization Editor
student expenditures from 2001 to today. Although not all were directly on the mark, about 
three-quarters of those surveyed were within a close 10-percent range.  
In response to increasing student tuition and discontent with the state’s educational policy 
among members of the UC, UC President Janet Napolitano and Gov. Jerry Brown came to an 
agreement in May of last year. The agreement reflected Brown’s budget proposal, including 
an annual 4 percent increase in state funding over the course of four years and a three-year 
infusion of $436 million into the UC pension system. It also guaranteed a freeze of in-state 
undergraduate tuition for the next two years. 
Across the UC System, Student Expenditures are divided between Student Tuition/Fees, 
UC General Funds and State General Funds. In 2001, Student Tuition/Fees accounted 
for about 18.8 percent while State General funds accounted for 72 percent. Today, what 
percentage do you believe students are paying?
Correct Answer: 45%-49%Correct Answer: $20,000-$29,999
Source: University of California 2016-17 Budget for Current Operations and Three-Y ear Financial Sustainability PlanCorrect Answer: 30%-39%
For the 2015–2016 school year, how much more do you estimate out of state students are 
paying annually compared to in-state students?What percentage of UCSD’s budget do you think is being spent on the medical centers?Are students aware of how the university gets its funding? The 
Guardian issued a survey, here are the results:
Source: The Daily Californian,  May 14, 2015FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/host8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
The agreement looked promising, 
but it also had some downsides. After 
two years of frozen tuition, potential 
increases, pegged to inflation, would 
begin in the 2017–2018 school year 
in order to ensure financial stability 
throughout the UC system. Although 
resident tuition would remain 
constant for two years, nonresident 
supplemental tuition could increase 
up by 8 percent per year. But both 
in-state and out-of-state would see a 
5 percent annual increase in student 
service fees beginning during the  
2015–2016 academic year. The fees, 
approximately $48 per student, would 
go toward mental health services.
In November 2015, the UC 
executive and associate vice 
presidents released a  2016–2017 
Budget for Current Operations and 
Three-Year Financial Sustainability 
Plan. Among many projections is 
a key difference that will benefit 
students; the 4-percent increase 
in state funding to the UC base 
budget has been extended to 
the 2018–2019 school year, 
amounting to over $500 million 
over the next four years. The 
rest of the agreement mentioned 
between Napolitano and Brown 
regarding UC Tuition and Fees 
was almost entirely reiterated by 
the UC Financial Sustainability Plan, including an up to 8 
percent increase in supplemental 
nonresident tuition. 
In order to fill the gap resulting 
from one billion dollars in state 
funding cuts, one third of the UC 
core educational budget, the UC 
system has consistently looked 
to admit more nonresidents. 
Undergraduate California residents 
still make up approximately 85 
percent of those admitted, but the 
remaining 15 percent of nonresidents 
pay a lot more in tuition and fees and 
continue to ensure the UC system’s 
fiscal stability.  
At UCSD specifically, out-of-state 
students paid about $24,708 more 
in tuition and fees than in-state 
students for the 2015–2016 academic 
year. When the Guardian surveyed 
the same sample of UCSD students, 
however, only about 47 percent 
believed that out-of-state students 
pay an extra $20,000–$30,000 per 
year, while 31 percent believed 
out-of-state students were paying 
between $10,000 to $20,000 per 
year. Moreover, 7 percent of students 
surveyed believed nonresidents were 
only paying between $1,000–$10,000 
more per year.  
The discrepancy between what 
students think nonresident tuition 
costs and what it actually costs is quite large. 
“The lack of student awareness 
is probably a result of students’ 
apathy, ” Fourth year ERC student 
Anjleena Sahni told the Guardian. 
“The university publishes its 
budget and tuition prices every 
year, as it is required to do. It’s 
unfortunate that a public university 
has become so expensive, and 
as a result inaccessible. It’s even 
more unfortunate that students are 
unaware of these rising costs. ”
To put it in perspective, the 
amount of money UC generates 
annually from extra out of state 
tuition as a whole is $800M, which 
parallels the cost of educating 
80,000 California resident students. 
Consequently, this allows the UC 
to admit the top 12.5 percent of 
California high school students 
who apply, and fulfill one of its 
many obligations. 
The state budget cuts have 
ultimately forced the UC, amongst 
many public agencies, to make 
difficult fiscal decisions. In 
addition to cutting costs and 
generating savings, the state had 
the choice to increase in-state 
tuition by an additional $2,000 
per student, reduce California 
enrollment altogether or add 
nonresidents. The UC Board of Regents ultimately chose the latter.
“Public universities receive 
funding from the state, and so state 
taxes subsidize the tuition fees of 
in-state students, ” Sahni told the 
Guardian. “Of course, especially 
from a political standpoint, it 
would be impossible to justify the 
use of California state taxes to pay 
for the education of out of state 
students. A $25,000 difference 
seems excessive, especially when 
our tuition fees comprise only a 
small part of the university budget. 
However, it’s much easier to justify 
and raise out of state tuition. ” 
Even though out-of-state 
enrollment has increased, there 
have been plans to increase in-state 
enrollment as well. One of the key 
promises of the 2015 Budget Act was 
an increase of $25 million in state 
funding beginning in 2015–2016, 
contingent upon the UC showing 
that it will enroll 5,000 more 
California undergraduates by 2016–
2017 (over the 2014–2015 base). It 
was noted that by May 2016, the UC 
system would have demonstrated 
sufficient action to accomplish this 
goal, and if they did, the Department 
of Finance would release the $25 
million at that time. 
The UC Office of the President 
released information that showed an increase of 8,488 undergraduate 
freshman students admitted to 
the UC system for Fall Quarter 
2016. The data also showed a total 
of 66,123 admissions offers, a 
14.7 percent increase from 2015, 
demonstrating that the UC system 
is not only on track to enroll 
an additional 5,000 California 
undergraduates in 2016, but with 
continued state funding, 5,000 
more undergraduates over the next 
couple years. 
With the $25 million now at 
their disposal, the UC system has 
made efforts to enroll many more 
in-state students, as admissions 
offers to California high school 
seniors increased almost 15 percent 
over the last year for students 
hoping to enroll in the UC system 
this fall.  
It appears that there has been 
some progress in funding for the 
UC system as a whole, but the 
issue of high tuition remains for 
both nonresidents and residents. 
Students seem to be very aware that 
tuition is expensive, but less in tune 
with why and how their money is 
being spent. ▶ BUDGET AND TUITION , from page 6
Noam  Leead   
Allison  Kubo  Behind the  LecternProfessor Geoffrey W . Cook: Just Call Me Geoff
On the first day of SIO 50, Introduction to Earth Sciences, professor Geoffrey W . 
Cook asked the students to call him Geoff. Geoff is one of the few “teaching 
professors” at UCSD, meaning his research is in both pedagogy and explosive 
volcanology, but not at the same time. His position as instructor first rather than “rock-star 
researcher publishing 10 papers a year” lets him focus on his students. 
Geoff has been teaching since graduate school. He seems just as relaxed in his office 
plastered with photos of his wife and daughter as he is in front a class of eager students.
 “I used to have some — not extensive — anxiety, but anxiety [about public speaking], ” 
Geoff said. “But when I first started teaching when I was a graduate student it seemed totally 
natural. There was some apprehension but when you love what you are talking about it is 
really easy. ” 
While working on his master’s degree, Geoff met his wife, Heather, who was an 
undergraduate studying volcanology. The pair represent two ends of the volcanic spectrum; 
she likes passive eruptions and he enjoys explosive volcanism.  
“It’s hard to get jobs together if you are in the same area, so if she had finished her Ph.D 
in volcanology I don’t know what would have happened, ” Geoff said. “She really made a 
sacrifice for us. To be fair she could have been way better at [research] than me, she is 
unbelievable at school and an phenomenal researcher, but she didn’t love it. ” 
While his wife worked on her master’s degree in education, Geoff started his Ph.D at 
Washington State University, where he studied Valles Caldera, a supervolcano in New 
Mexico. But it took him a while.  
“I spent way more time on my TA work than my research, ” Geoff said. “I always had TAs 
through my masters and Ph.D and I loved it. I felt like I was really good at it so I was more 
motivated to do that then go in the lab and do research ... My advisor always said ‘you are 
not a bad researcher, you are just slow. ’”
Before even finishing his Ph.D, Geoff left to teach at University of Rhode Island. There, he shared a office with his wife and together they taught geology.  While Geoff was looking 
for permanent positions, UCSD offered a full-time teaching position that focused on 
students, not on research. He turned to his wife and said, “Heather, that’s me. ” He came 
for an interview at SIO and witnessed a common practice, the graduate students surfing 
at lunch. When he called his wife back in the 28-degree weather of Rhode Island, she said, 
“you need to get this job. ” Obviously, he did. 
By teaching the introductory earth-science course at UCSD, Geoff aims to instill students 
with a mindfulness for the environment and a healthy respect for hazardous phenomenons 
like as volcanoes and earthquakes. Geoff tries to live his life in a way that is least impactful 
on the environment, but he encourages students to try, in any way possible, to be conscious 
of energy and sustainability issues. 
 “I want to empower students, ” Geoff said. “Even the smallest changes can have an 
impact, it may sound trite but it’s true ...Too many of us, myself included, forget that there 
are major issues and we all have to be great stewards of the environment. ”
He does this, not only because he loves the subject matter, but because of his 3-year-old 
daughter. 
“People say ‘save the Earth, ’ but the Earth will be OK because of tectonic processes, ” 
Geoff said. “We really are saving ourselves and our families. It is unethical and illogical to 
pass on a worse situation to the next generation. ”
At UCSD, Geoff has the opportunity to reach and empower more students than ever, but 
it is far from what he imagined.
“I never thought I would end up at an R1 research institution, ” Geoff said. “I have a very 
unique position and there are not a lot of positions like this out there compared with the 
number of people who want them. I am super lucky because I get to do exactly what I want 
to do. ”
What percentage do you think the state is paying?
Correct Answer: 35%-39% Correct Answer: $700-$799How much do you think you are paying in student fees quarterly?The $800 million total from out-of-state tuition, allows the UC to accept top 12.5 percent of CA high school studentsCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
THU 5.26
10AM
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance. Workshop led by: 
Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife Instructor
1:30PM
THERAPY FLUFFIES- THE ZONE 
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
2PM
EXPAND YOUR NETWORK, RAISE YOUR NET 
WORTH!- BEAR ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 2
**Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program 
to attend.
Go beyond small talk and build stronger bonds with 
your colleagues by engaging in meaningful 
conversations! This workshop will provide you with 
tools that will make you dive deeper into 
conversations and expand your networking skills to 
create a bright future.
Presented by Oscar Lara, Greek Life Advisor, Center 
for Student Involvement
3PM
PASSPORT TO CULTURE- CUZCO LOUNGE- 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
EARN YOUR PASSPORT & "TRAVEL" to a different 
region every week! Learn about life and culture from 
current students who have lived and studied in various 
regions of the world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food 
from the highlighted region each week! ALL 
STUDENTS WELCOME! FREE FOOD! ALL STUDENTS 
WELCOME! FREE FOOD!
6:30PM
6TH ANNUAL CELEBRATION OF AFRICA AT 
UCSD- PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
UCSD's African Student Association proudly presents 
its 6th annual Celebration of Africa. Celebration of 
Africa is an annual student-led showcase of African 
cultures through student and professional 
performances.
As our biggest event, this year we're celebrating 
African cultures with a dynamic array of African dance 
performers, spoken word, vocal performances, music, 
and FREE AFRICAN FOOD! Yes fam, dinner will be 
served!
8:45PM
GSA PRESENTS - NOTHING SPECIAL- THE LOFT
Nothing Special - Free Show!! Doors open at 7:30pm, 
show at 8:00pm. Featuring Alex Georges, Peter Kissin, 
Kevin Cremin, Erik Anderson, Lizzie Shipton, Tsukasa 
Takahashi, Ryland Fallon, and Kirk Wang.
 SENIOR SEND-OFF W/ ALISON WONDERLAND
PC BALLROOM WESTMON, MAY 23  • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 23 - MAY 292016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 5.25
10:30AM
SCIENCE FICTION MEETS ARCHITECTURE: 
LONDON IN 2080- ATKINSON HALL 
AUDITORIUM
The Arthur C. Clarke Center for Human Imagination (UC 
San Diego) and the Bartlett School of Architecture 
(University College London) present a free transatlantic 
lecture on designing for the future of London, featuring 
Vernon Vinge (science fiction author) and Marjan 
Colletti (architect) proposing visions of robot-filled, 
AI-driven megamalls of 2080.
11AM
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
1PM
FINANCIALLY SAVVY - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
June us in learning new tips for financial success both 
in and out of college from the Financial Aid and 
Scholarships Office. Be prepared to have fun while 
gaining skills to help your financial future! 5/11: How 
to Get Out from Under Your Student Loan Debt, 5/18: 
How to Understand Your Paycheck, Where Does Your 
Money Go?, 5/25: The Big Q&A with a Panel of Experts
FRI5.27
10AM
FITNESS ZONE: ZUMBA - THE ZONE
Experience the dance craze that's taking the fitness 
industry by storm! Zumba combines Latin rhythms 
and easy-to-follow dance moves to put the FUN back 
in your workout. Fast and slow rhythms are 
combined for an aerobic and toning workout that 
confers the benefits of interval training. 
12PM
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where international 
and domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and 
the local community can come together to celebrate 
cultural diversity and international education. Each 
week the Friday Cafe presents the opportunity to 
explore world cultures, cuisines, music and more. 
Join us for this unique international experience! 
Price: $5 per plate
2PM
R & R SQUAD CHAIR- THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu.
3PM
DE-STRESS W/ BIOFEEDBACK- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how it 
affects your well-being and how to keep your stress 
levels down! 
Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. 
Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer EducatorTUE 5.24
10AM
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA STRETCH- THE ZONE
Come after your workout for a deep stretch class. 
Using props like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls 
this class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body.
10AM
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
5:30PM
TRITON ENTREPRENEUR NIGHT- THE 
BASEMENT- MANDEVILLE ROOM B202
It's been a year since we built The Basement, and 
now it's time to open the doors for our biggest 
event yet - Triton Entrepreneur Night is where 
creativity, ideas and innovation converge.
Whether you're a student with a big idea, a UC 
San Diego alum itching to support budding 
entrepreneurs, or a member of a regional startup 
or entrepreneurial organization, this is your night.
Network - Be inspired. Demo - Be impressed. 
Pitch - Be invested. MON 5.23
UC SAN DIEGO HAS IDEAS ABOUT 
SUSTAINABILITY. SHARE YOURS!- ONLINE
The Sustainability and Operational Strategic Initiatives 
departments at UC San Diego are excited to announce 
the launch of the next IdeaWave campaign! Our goal is 
to become a carbon neutral campus by 2025. Share 
your ideas about how the university can better support 
the campus community in using less energy, from the 
electricity used for powering electronics to how you get 
to, from, and around campus. An evaluation team will 
review popular ideas and comments for possible 
inclusion in the Climate Action Plan. Submit your ideas 
by May 23rd!
11AM
ART & SOUL: DECORATE YOUR GRAD CAP!- THE 
ZONE
Top off your graduation with a uniquely decorated grad 
cap! Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served.
5PM
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 
5:00 PM- 6:00 PM.
8PM
UCEN PRESENTS: SENIOR SEND-OFF W/ ALISON 
WONDERLAND - PC BALLROOM WEST 
We've brought you Jai Wolf, Lido, Audien, and now 
ALISON WONDERLAND! Don't miss out on your chance 
to see her! Show at 8:30PM. $11 for current UCSD 
students, limit one per student ID.
SAT 5.28
6:30PM
2ND ANNUAL BALLET FOLKLORICO LA JOYA DE 
MEXICO SHOWCASE- PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM 
Join us for an evening of Folklorico featuring the 
dancers of UC San Diego's Ballet Folklorico La Joya 
de Mexico and guest performers, University of San 
Diego's Ballet Folklorico, FAMA. Dances representing 
6 regions of Mexico will be performed with beautiful 
handmade outfits unique to each region. 
This event will be FREE but donations will be 
welcomed. All donations will go towards the 
maintenance of outfits and dance equipment of our 
dance team.
We will be having refreshments during intermission.
VOTE ON TRITONLINK MA Y 16-20+23 it’s10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Member’s fee
 5 Vane reading
 9 Squander
 14 Cancel
 15 Icefield
 16 Cast member
 17 Authorize in writing
 19 Teheran man
 20 Program file extension
 21 Essential meaning
 22 Curt
 23 At this spot
 24 Most-wanted invitees
 26 Part of AWOL
 29 Comic Laurel
 30 Roulette bet
 33 Weaving machines
 34 Wasp attack
 35 To’s partner
 36 French you
 37 Potbelly, e.g.
 38 ET craft
 39 Overnight spot
 40 Seine feeder
 41 Old witch
 42 Homer’s TV neighbor
 43 Deuterium discoverer
 44 Film festival site
 45 Desert refuge
 47 Lamb sires
 48 Coffee shops
 50 Panic
 52 Get an easy A
 55 Actress Woodard
 56 Argue toe-to-toe
 58 Lubricate anew
 59 Manipulates
 60 Parched
 61 Russo and Coty
 62 Discount word
 63 Puts onDown
 1 Italian actress Eleonora
 2 Trademark DOS
 3 Advantage
 4 Chip off the old block
 5 Exertion
 6 Michael Caine film
 7 In a sec
 8 Only penciled in
 9 In line
 10 Realtor’s measures
 11 Begin, as a trip
 12 Oodles
 13 Superior’s inferior?
 18 Unwraps
 23 Skirt borders
 25 Pathway
 26 Singing chipmunk
 27 Singer Pat
 28 State one’s opinions
 29 Unfeeling
 31 Unmanned aircraft
 32 Medicine measures
 34 Nerve-wracking
 37 Indian garb
 38 Vases with feet
 40 Bivalve mollusks
 41 Walk-on part
 44 Touch lovingly
 46 Eagle’s nest
 47 Track events
 48 Vocalist Vikki
 49 Out of the wind
 51 Attorney’s project
 52 Big do of the ‘60s
 53 Meter insert
 54 Draws to a close
 57 Temporary maniaBIKES
Girls Pink and Purple Bike  - $40. I am selling 
a little girl’s pink and purple bike with train -
ing wheels for only $40.00. My daughter 
never used it, it has a basket and a horn, it 
does have a tiny tear on the seat. Listing ID: 
265790254 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Bicycle Trainer - $75. CycleOps Bicycle 
Trainer. Retails for $200. Asking $75. Great 
for indoor training and apartment living. 
Folds for storage. Superb condition Listing 
ID: 265790253 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Custom Mountain Bike - $200.  Includes 
tires for street riding. Everything is in great 
and solid working condition. Listing ID: 
265790252 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationPETS
Cavapoo Puppy!! Kenny - $1800. Kenny 
is a Super fun male Cavapoo. He dances 
around on sunny days in San Diego. This 
pup has his up to date shots and vet checks 
and comes with a 1 year Health Guarantee. 
Kenny is 9 weeks old and smart as a whip. 
Listing ID: 265111839 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Canary Wing Parrot Babies - $195. Canary 
Wing Bee Bee Parrot Babies - $195 each - 
still taking baby formula - can place deposit 
and pick up when weaned and eating regu -
lar seed/pellets. Call 619-447-4171. Listing 
ID: 265111632 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Boxer - $500. Beautiful boxer puppies 9 
weeks old. D.O.B 3/9/16. 1 Male, 3 Female. Text/call Ricky @ 6192887725. Listing ID: 
264142903 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Entertainment Center Dresser - $60. 
Dressers in attractive condition. Ready to 
go. Listing ID: 264681177 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Study Table, Office Chair and Light - $70. 
All of them like new. Listing ID: 263874266 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Vintage Wood Round Table - $500. 
Purchased for $1000, selling for $500. Very 
nice, in terrific condition. With four dinner 
seats, also in attractive condition. Glass top 
with heavy wood base. Would like a buyer 
who has transportation to pick the table 
up. Listing ID: 263874258 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
+23ICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTION
VOTE TODA Y
MONDA Y , MA Y 23 FROM 10AM-11:59PMSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
University 3–1. 
UCSD’s overall .638 win 
percentage can be attributed to its 
high-powered offense. The Tritons 
were third place in runs scored with 
277, 62 of them coming in an eight-
game win streak. UCSD also finished 
second in stolen bases with 132, one 
away from tying Humboldt State. 
Star athlete and sophomore 
outfielder Kelsi Maday led the 
Tritons in almost every batting 
category. After being ranked sixth 
overall in hitting with a .368 batting 
average, Maday was given All-West 
Region honors along with rising star 
freshman infielder Maddy Lewis. 
Lewis was ranked 12th overall in 
the conference and led the Tritons in 
triples with four. She was also named 
the CCAA Freshman of the Y ear and 
was one of the finalists for the Schutt 
Sports Freshman of the Y ear. 
Of course, UCSD’s success can’t be 
credited to offense alone. Throughout 
the season, the Tritons’ defense only 
allowed 197 runs. It led the league 
in fielding percentage at .970 and 
had the second-fewest errors with 54. 
Senior pitcher Lexi Edwards finished 
fifth overall in pitching. Not only did 
Edwards go 16–9 during the season, 
but she also led the conference in 
saves with eight. 
The Tritons and head coach Patti 
Gerckens will look to improve during 
the 2017 season. Key players such as 
Maday and Lewis will return and hope 
to repeat the CCAA Tournament. Offense and Defense 
Both Key in Success 
for Triton Women
▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12
Anthony  Tzeng   
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
Tritons Fall To Northwest Missouri 
State University to End Season
UCSD is defeated 5–4 in the NCAA ’s, season ends in the Sweet Sixteen. M. TENNIS
W ant to st a y 
upda ted with the 
la test news?Fresh off of a comfortable 5–1 win against 
Azusa Pacific University, the UCSD men’s 
tennis team traveled to Denver, Colorado 
on Wednesday to take on No. 12 Northwest 
Missouri State University in the 16th round 
of the NCAA Championships. The contest 
provided a late-night spectacle as Northwest 
did just enough to edge UCSD to a 5–4 margin 
to advance to the Elite Eight. 
The Tritons finished the season with an 
overall record of 14–10.  
In a back-and-forth day of action, UCSD 
had the early 2–1 lead after coming out on top 
in two of the three doubles matches. However, 
the script flipped when singles play began 
as Northwest dominated in the first three 
encounters and took a 4–2 lead going into 
the final three matches of the day. In a final 
push, the Tritons found themselves back in 
contention to win after back-to-back victories 
to even the score at 4–4. Unfortunately, the 
comeback was not completed in the final and 
deciding match as Northwest took a three-set 
victory to clinch its spot in the next round.
The final match featured a No. 5 singles 
matchup of Triton senior Horea Porutiu 
against junior Fin Glowick. With Glowick 
taking the first set 6–3, Porutiu responded 
wonderfully with a comfortable 6–2 win to 
take the second set. In the deciding set, with 
the season on the line, Glowick narrowly took 
the victory 7–5.  
Sophomore Eric Tseng and junior 
Alexandre Miaule gave hope for a potential 
comeback in singles play with their impressive 
victories. No. 1 Tseng began with a shaky start to the match, but after letting down in the first 
set 6–2, he regained composure. The result 
would be consecutive 7–6 wins to take down 
his opponent in an exciting match in which 
Tseng fell behind 3–0 in the final set but found 
a way to overcome the deficit. 
Similar to Tseng, No. 3 Miaule stared at a 
6–2 loss in the opening set against sophomore 
Mauro Tete. What happened next was 
noteworthy, as Miaule racked up 10 consecutive 
games, giving himself a 6–0 win in the second 
set and a 4–0 lead in the final set. Then in 
an incredible response, facing a 5–2 deficit, 
Tete found a way to climb himself back into 
the match and even it out at 6–6.  However, 
Miaule prevailed in the tiebreaker, 8–6, to earn 
a much-needed victory for the team.
Northwest’s singles victories came at No. 2, 
No. 4 and No. 6. The strongest Triton duo was 
Miaule and Porutiu as they ended the season 
with a 16–6 record, including a 8–6 victory in 
the No. 1 doubles match.
Thanks to No. 3 doubles pair junior Edvin 
Larsson and sophomore Justin Zhang, UCSD 
got its point of the matchup.  
The Round of 16 matchup astonishingly 
concluded at almost 12:30 a.m. due to delays 
and long matches early on. 
UCSD qualified for the NCAA Tournament 
for the first time since 2014, while participating 
in postseason play in 14 of the last 16 years. 
Porutiu will be the only Triton member to say 
goodbye to the program. Throughout three 
years of play in his Triton career, he finished 
with a 45-28 (.616) record in singles play and 
40–28 (.588) in doubles play.BY  D A N I E L  H E R N A N D E Z
SENIOR 
daniel  hernandez     ucsdgaurdian.org
Go to  12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPORTSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER  
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
13  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 23, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now readyLearn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856
UCSD 2016 softball campaign 
ended in great success. The 
Tritons were able to win a 
total of 37 games, the highest since 
2012. UCSD also managed to win 
23 conference games and finished 
fourth in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings. In 
the CCAA Tournament, the Tritons 
toppled projections by beating top-
seeded Humboldt State and second-
seeded Chico State to claim the 
CCAA title.
The Tritons’ sweep in the CCAA 
brought them to compete with the 
best of the best in Azusa, California. 
There, they passionately battled in 
the NCAA West 2 Regions, beating 
Dixie State University but ultimately 
succumbing to Azusa Pacific 
University and Central Washington 
University. Interestingly enough, 
the Tritons had already played both 
Azusa Pacific and CWU prior to 
Regionals. In the first two games 
against Azusa Pacific, UCSD won 
one and lost one. In the Tournament 
of Champions, the Tritons went on 
a four-game winning streak, which 
included beating Central Washington 2016 Completes A Historic Season For Softball
37 wins and an NCAA appearance   
written by Anthony Tzeng // Senior Staff Writer
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSee SOFTBALL , page 11Track & Field
W.Rowing
M.Rowing5/26
5/27
6/3AT NCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
AT IRA ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES