VOLUME 50, ISSUE 2   MONDA Y , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
STUDY HOT 
SPOTS
IT’S NEVER TOO EARLY 
TO START STUDYING. OUR 
FEATURES TEAM HAS YOU 
COVERED WITH A LIST OF 
LOUNGES AND RESOURCE 
CENTERS WHERE YOU CAN KICK 
BACK AND READ SOME PDF’S.
SANCTUARY CAMPUS
M.W A TER POLO WINS BIGPROHIBITING  COOPERA TION
TeaM  st a y s  undefea ted OPINION, P AGE 4
Sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
FORECAST
VERBATIM
BY FAILING  TO KEEP UP 
WITH SIMILARLY  PRICED  
FLAGSHIP  ANDROID  
SMARTPHONES , THE NEWEST  
MODEL  ILLUSTRATES  
THE GROWING  GAP IN 
INNOVATION  BETWEEN  APPLE 
AND OTHER  SMARTPHONE  
MANUFACTURERS .”
- Alexander Chen
TECH IT OUT
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
AIR POLLUTION  ............... 2
MONEY IN POLITICS  .......4
FRESHMAN YEAR  ............ 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
W. VOLLEYBALL..............11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  8
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE / GUARDIAN
Researchers at the UCSD School 
of Medicine, Vanderbilt University 
and University of Chicago conducted 
the first genome-wide association 
study for long-term loneliness 
and have found it to be associated 
with neuroticism and depressive 
symptoms. The findings were 
published in the scientific journal 
Neuropsychopharmacology on   
Sept. 15.
Past twin or candidate studies 
estimated that loneliness is inherited 
37 to 55 percent of the time, but 
the new method of chip heritability 
showed the numbers as closer to 14 
to 27 percent.
Abraham Palmer, co-author of 
the study, professor of psychiatry and vice chair for basic research at UCSD 
School of Medicine, explained to the 
UCSD Guardian that prior research 
methods were unrealistic and that 
scientists could not replicate them.
“Previous studies, rather than 
looking at all genetic differences 
among human subjects, have 
looked at one or just a few genetic 
differences,” Palmer told the 
Guardian. “They may have rather 
optimistically found that there were 
associations between genes like a 
serotonin receptor or genes where it’s 
easy to think of a rationale for that 
receptor system being involved in 
loneliness. With our much larger, and 
therefore more statistically powerful, 
data set we could not replicate any of 
those previously published results. ”
Sandra Sanchez, co-author and 
postdoctoral researcher at the UCSD School of Medicine, explained that 
the chip heritability method was 
essential to this genome association 
study because it captured only 
common genetic variations.
“It’s an accumulation of those 
common variance, not just one single 
variant, and that accumulation can 
explain the heritability of the traits, ” 
Sanchez stated. “Because each variant 
gives a very small contribution, 
it’s only when you aggregate the 
contribution of all of them that you 
see the signal. ”
Lane Davis, co-author and 
assistant professor of medicine at 
Vanderbilt University, provided an 
analogy to illustrate the polygenic 
quality of loneliness, as it is a 
complex trait influenced by not just 
a single gene.UC System 
Welcomes Most 
Diverse Class in 
Its HistoryUC SYSTEM
Napolitano met with UC 
Regents on Sept. 15 to discuss 
future enrollment growth and 
diversity on UC campuses.
BY   M a r i o   E s p i n o z a 
Staff Writer
The University of California 
has enrolled the most diverse 
class of California freshmen and 
transfer students in its history for 
the Fall Quarter 2016. According 
to data posted by the UC Office 
of the President last week, 
underrepresented minorities such 
as Latinos, African-Americans and 
American Indians represent 38 
percent of incoming freshmen and 
transfer students.
The UC Board of Regents held 
discussions over the changing 
student demographic at UCLA 
on Sept. 15, during which UC 
President Janet Napolitano met with 
the UC Regents and discussed the 
importance of enrolling students 
with more diverse backgrounds at 
the UC campuses.
“The changing demographics 
of the state of California … will 
significantly impact the future 
enrollment growth and diversity 
at [the UC system],” Napolitano 
said. “[The] future UC students 
should have access to the same 
opportunities and outcomes that 
students today possess. ”
UC officials gave presentations 
on how the demographic changes are 
currently affecting UC campuses. 
For example, UCLA boosted its 
efforts to accept more African-
American students, which brought 
the total enrollment of African-
American students to 6.9 percents 
of the incoming class. 
UC Academic Senate Chairman 
James Chalfant spoke with the UCSD 
Guardian about how the briefings 
highlighted the UC system’s ongoing 
effort to surpass what Napolitano 
has called “an aggressive and 
audacious goal” of accepting more 
California students — as agreed in 
a budget deal made with Gov. Jerry 
Brown and the Legislature.
“[University of California] has 
committed to increases in the 
enrollment of California residents 
[…] by more than 5,000 this year 
and another 5,000 over the next 
two years,” Oakley said. “When 
the state supports the University 
with enrollment funding, [the UC 
system] is able to respond in ways 
that keep up with the growing 
number of increasingly diverse 
and academically accomplished 
Californians who wish to earn a  
UC degree. ”
UCOP Media Communications 
Specialist Claire Doan told the ArtPower at UCSD Hosts 
Welcome Week Event
ArtPower at UCSD hosted an event entitled 
“Celebrate the Arts at Welcome Week” last Thursday, 
Sept. 22 on the Sun God Lawn. The event was free 
for students and featured a number of live musical 
performances, including Chicano Batman, a four-piece 
band from Los Angeles which performed at last year’s 
Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival and toured 
with the likes of Jack White and Alabama Shakes. 
The event came about as a result of a joint effort 
between ArtPower, the various arts departments at 
UCSD and the La Jolla Playhouse. Associate Director 
of Artistic Planning and Education at ArtPower Molly 
Clark told the UCSD Guardian that the event aimed to 
raise the profile of the arts on campus.
“ As you know, we’ve never done anything like this, ” 
Clark said. “It seemed like a missed opportunity during 
Welcome Week to have an event that really showcased 
the artistic resources on campus for students, whether 
they’re an arts major or not. ” 
In choosing the finale artist, Clark cited Chicano Batman’s unique sound and cultural background as 
factors in the decision. 
“I think they’re really charismatic performers, ” Clark 
told the Guardian. “They’re unique, they’re from the LA 
area, but also one of the things that drew us to Chicano 
Batman in particular is […] at UCSD we’re always 
striving to be more diverse, and this was a chance for 
us to represent Latino artists on stage to reflect some 
of the populations that are underrepresented on the          
UCSD campus. ”
In addition to the live musical performances, a 
number of arts departments and student organizations 
set up tables and provided students with information 
regarding programs they offer throughout the year. 
Sheena Ghanbari, program promotion manager at 
the department of visual arts, told the Guardian that 
the arts receive support when awareness for specific     
events increases. 
“I think that once people found out about the different 
events, we’ve had a lot of positive reinforcement from B y  MAria Sebas    News EditorCELEBRATE THE ARTS
Researchers Determine Loneliness Is a Heritable Trait 
The study also found that long-term loneliness is associated with neuroticism and depressive symptoms.See ARTPOWER , page 3
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
By  M i n g - R a y  L i a oPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
See DIVERSITY , page 3 See LONELINESS , page 3CAMPUS2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. joselynn got marked by the devil...twice!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerUCSD Scientist Collaborates with Gov. Brown on Air Pollution Bill
SB 1383 restricts the release of short-lived climate pollutants, which, unlike carbon dioxide, can disappear in a number of days or weeks.CAMPUS
On Sept. 9 California Gov. Jerry 
Brown signed SB 1383, a new bill 
that aims to reduce the state of 
California’s emission of air pollutants 
by approximately 50 percent before 
2030. The law, which restricts 
the release of short-lived climate 
pollutants is based on the research 
and suggestions of UC San Diego 
climate and atmospheric scientist 
Veerabhadran R amanathan. 
Unlike carbon dioxide, which 
can remain in the atmosphere for 
centuries, these pollutants can 
disappear in a few days or weeks. 
Many short-lived climate pollutants 
are also several times more potent 
than carbon dioxide. 
“Short-lived climate pollutants 
like methane, black carbon and soot account for 40 percent of the global 
warming we see today, ” Ramanathan 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Black 
carbon in the air, for example, has 
the same global warming effect as 
2000 tons of carbon dioxide. ”
Additionally, while carbon 
dioxide is very difficult to reduce 
and remove from the environment, 
Ramanathan claims California 
already possesses the technology to 
reduce the emission of black carbon.
“By using particulate filters, 
California can cut its black 
carbon emissions by 50 percent, ” 
Ramanathan said. “Through the new 
law, methane emitted by livestock 
waste can also be removed from the 
atmosphere by turning manure into 
fuel, which prevents the gas from 
leaking into the air. ”
In the future, Ramanathan and 
Brown hope to see more states and 
countries adopt plans to reduce short-lived climate pollutant 
emissions. Critics of the new 
programs have raised concerns 
that it is too difficult to remove 
these gases from the atmosphere 
and that the new programs are 
not economically feasible. These 
concerns can be alleviated by the 
fact that California has already been 
able to successfully implement many 
of these restrictions. 
Ramanathan even emphasizes 
that investing in these programs 
provides a financial incentive.
“Each dollar spent on 
this returns $80 in benefits, ”                          
Ramanathan explained.
Ramanathan has worked with 
the United Nations as well as various 
foreign governments to establish 
and expand pollution restriction 
programs. In 2013, Ramanathan 
and Brown travelled to India to 
set up emissions control programs in rural areas by providing stoves 
that reduce the amount of black 
carbon gas released during cooking. 
Ramanathan currently works with 
his daughter to distribute the stoves 
and monitor the gases released.
Reducing the amount of short-
lived gases in the atmosphere has a 
significant impact on the health of 
the planet and can save the lives of 
entire populations.
“Global pollution kills about 2.5 
million people every year, and tens 
of thousands in the United States, 
so by reducing th ese gases, we 
can help the environment and save 
thousands of lives,” Ramanathan 
explained to the Guardian. BY  P r o m i t a   N a n dy 
Contributing Writer
Promit a  Nand y   pnandy@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.orgCHEck  Us  out
@NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
artists going to different exhibitions 
[and] reaching out to students to 
come to their shows. ”
Ghanbari also noted that hosting 
such events on campus can help dispel the notion that UCSD is a 
STEM-only university. 
“I think something like this that’s 
visible on campus aims to try and 
get people who may not have known 
where different art spaces are to 
learn about them, and potentially even think about majoring in them 
or minoring in them,” Ghanbari 
said. “So things like this are trying 
to bridge that mentality that this is 
a STEM-only [campus], that there’s 
room for … arts on campus. ”
In addition to the Welcome Week event, ArtPower is active 
throughout the year in procuring 
artists from a variety of disciplines, 
including music, film and dance. 
“There is not one nail that 
holds a house together, there are 
hundreds of thousands of nails — 
each contributing a little bit to the 
structure of your house, ” Davis said. 
“The same thing is true for your 
body and brain — there are many 
common variants in thousands of 
genes that contribute just a little 
tiny bit. ”
Palmer explained that the 
decreased heritability of loneliness 
doesn’t make it less powerful.
“I would say that this is a good 
result since it’s a heritability on par with traits that we know are heritable 
but not very strongly genetic, ” Palmer 
said. “For instance, depression shows 
a similar chip heritability. ”
Sanchez added that the chip 
heritability method also allowed 
them to test and discover genetic 
correlation between traits, which 
was the second major finding of              
the study.
“We were able to show that this 
trait is heritable using the common 
variance approach and were also 
able to see whether those common 
variance are also associated with 
another trait, ” Sanchez said. “We 
showed that the common variance associated with loneliness were 
also associated with depression, 
neuroticism and schizophrenia not 
at the phenotypic level but at the 
genetic level. ”
Palmer noted that it was 
important to consider that the 
correlation was with symptoms 
of depression and not a diagnosis                 
of depression.
“It isn’t a critical diagnosis of 
[...] clinical depression, but a 
series of questions that get at some 
features of depression, ” Palmer said. 
“The subjects answered a series 
of questions and were assigned a 
score based on how many depressive symptoms they exhibited, and we 
saw that it was genetically correlated 
with how they responded to the 
questions about loneliness. ”
Davis hopes that the study will 
illuminate the complex mechanisms 
behind loneliness.
“I hope that this work will 
increase awareness of the biological 
contribution to loneliness, ” 
Davis said. “Loneliness can have 
a detrimental effect on health, 
particularly for individuals who are 
more socially isolated. ”Guardian that the UC system is 
involved in trying to enroll more 
Californian students in order 
to meet the goal through the 
Achieve UC program and in the 
University’s partnership with                         
community colleges.
“Through our Achieve UC 
program, the University has 
expanded outreach efforts to reach 
tens of thousands more students 
through dozens of additional events such as career fairs, churches and 
other venues,” Doan said. “We 
continue to reach out to schools 
and communities throughout 
the state to make sure students 
— and their parents — know we 
welcome everyone who meets UC      
admission requirements. ”
During the briefings, officials 
from UC campuses such as UCLA 
and UC Irvine presented financial 
uncertainties as one of the biggest 
concerns when dealing with the 
changing student demographic. Chalfant also gave his thoughts on 
how out-of-state and international 
students provide much-needed 
revenue and talents needed to 
enrich the education of California 
students. Chalfant later spoke to the 
Guardian in order to elaborate on 
his stance.
“[The UC system] will find a way 
to enroll as many eligible California 
residents as are funded by the state, 
but it’s no longer possible to think of 
our core funds as consisting only of 
in-state tuition and funding from the state, ” Chalfant said. “Nonresident 
tuition has become a very large, 
third source of funding. ”
It is expected that the UC 
campuses will further increase in 
diversity over the next two decades 
as the state of California’s population 
rises by 10 million to reach 47.2 
million by 2040. 
Scientists Also Used Chip Heritability Method to Test Genetic Correlation Between Traits
▶ LONELINESS,  from page 1▶ DIVERSITY,  from page 1
▶ ARTPOWER,  from page 1Several Campus Officials Concerned Changing DemographicsWill Result in Financial Uncertainty
Ghanbari: Events Like ‘Celebrate the Arts’ Dispel Notion that UCSD is a STEM-only Campus Mario  Espinoza   mae001@ucsd.edu
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.eduMaria  Sebas   msebas@ucsd.eduWe now stream 
UCSD’s A.S. 
Council 
meeting live 
every Wednesday 
night at 6 p.m 
on the “UCSD 
Guardian” 
YouTube channel.A.S. 
COUNCIL 
LIVE!G-SPANOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
Apple’s 
Unlucky 
Seventh
Money is not always the milk of 
politics, and perception is not always 
reality. Have you ever wondered 
where all those contributions go 
in City Council elections? There is 
only so much campaigning one can 
do in these relatively small districts, 
and both the primary and general 
elections are not held citywide. So 
why is it implied that without gobs 
of do-re-me, one is perceived as a 
lower-tier candidate?
Along with being worthy 
and qualified, there needs to be 
a celestial alignment in favor of 
the poor man’s candidate.  This 
alignment is rare but achievable. 
For example: Being a resident of the 
district for nearly fifty years, serving 
on several community organizations, working as an organizer and activist 
and walking everywhere while 
cultivating friendships is a big plus. 
Writing prolifically for local media 
will also further the cause.
What is more noble than a man 
with few resources winning over 
a well-healed opponent? I believe 
the voters recognize this quality 
in candidates but unfortunately 
it is the media that pigeonhole 
an underfunded candidate as 
incapable of victory. So the 
perception becomes a reality and 
here comes the slippery slope. 
A few years ago, a candidate in 
my district was given over one 
hundred thousand dollars by 
a developer. Was this tidy sum 
dispensed over the contenders seven handicap as a golfer?  
Obviously not — the prostitution 
of political candidates. Why does 
someone need a hundred thousand 
dollars in the first place, especially 
in a small geographical district 
where eye contact is worth more 
than a greenback? Where on Earth 
did all of that money go in the 
first place? If a candidate needs 
so much in order to get elected to 
our San Diego City Council, the 
voters ought to ask how they will 
manage our public tax dollars. Any 
person running for public office 
who squeezes blood out of a turnip on the stump will most likely be a 
good steward of our public coffers. 
Think of all the waste in local 
political campaigns. Who needs to 
rent out space in a retail center in 
order to run for office?  Who needs 
to pay fancy campaign managers 
and consultants exorbitant amounts 
of money?  There are countless folks 
who would gladly volunteer in the 
name of a worthy candidate. The 
cost of mailing an eight-by-eleven 
glossy flyer to most district voters 
is probably around forty thousand 
dollars. Outside of this expense, I 
find it unreasonable to spend any 
more funds. Just walk, walk some 
more and keep walking. When the 
stars are aligned you will win, but 
never give up. How an Underfunded 
Candidate Can 
Wor m Onto the San 
Diego City CouncilLetter  to 
the  editor
danie L J. 
Smiechow SkiIn recent years, sanctuary cities 
that prohibit police and employee 
cooperation with U.S. Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement have 
gained more prominence, serving as 
potential tools for fighting deportation 
of vulnerable groups. Although exact 
implementation varies depending on 
the city, most cities directly prohibit 
officials and employees from aiding 
or interacting with Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement or the U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection, 
except when ordered to by a warrant 
or judge. The UC system has recently 
considered adopting these policies in 
order to better protect undocumented 
students across its campuses and 
allow them to pursue higher 
education without fear of deportation. 
Sanctuary laws, similar to ones 
already implemented in San Francisco and Seattle, are instrumental in 
protecting undocumented workers 
and refugees from brutal deportation, 
oftentimes into poverty or death. 
Furthermore, deportation raids are 
often brutal, violent and terrifying 
for undocumented students. Despite 
this, the UC system has yet to adopt 
any rules forbidding these raids, 
continuing to allow ICE and CBP 
agents onto campus to potentially 
break up families. In order to better 
serve the community, UCSD should 
adopt the sanctuary city model and 
refuse to allow its employees and 
officers to support this system on the 
college campus.
Although UCSD recently made 
strides in accommodating the unique 
challenges undocumented students 
face by creating the Undocumented 
Students Center, there is still far more work to do. Undocumented students 
often lack appropriate finances for 
college and are unable to apply 
for federal loans or scholarships 
(although they are still eligible for 
state loans or scholarships under the 
California DREAM Act). In addition, 
undocumented students tend to be 
less familiar with the college process, 
academic work and their legal rights. 
This is especially important since 
many undocumented students, when 
facing deportation, are not fully 
informed of their legal rights and 
are taken advantage of by zealous 
ICE agents who, according to the 
National Immigration Law Center, 
often coerce them into signing a 
document waiving their rights to an 
immigration trial. Making UCSD a 
See SANCTUARY , page 5BY NATHAN  WALKER // 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONIf  UCSD seeks to serve its 
undocumented students, it is 
vital that the university adopt 
the sanctuary city model, 
prohibiting campus police and 
employees from cooperating 
with governmental agencies.
SAFER  AS  SANCTUAR Y 
Apple recently released the newest 
iterations of the iPhone at an Apple 
Special Event on September 7. With 
added features like stereo speakers 
and an IP67 rating — which makes 
the newest iPhones water-resistant 
— the latest iPhones have certainly 
improved. However, by failing to 
keep up with similarly priced flagship 
Android smartphones, the newest 
model illustrates the growing gap in 
innovation between Apple and other 
smartphone manufacturers. 
If you’re embedded within the 
Apple ecosystem, only then might 
this be the upgrade for you. Added 
functionality of the dual-lens camera 
on the iPhone 7 Plus allows you to 
get two times optical zoom, which 
has been a significant problem for 
smartphone cameras. In addition, 
the lowest storage configuration for 
the latest iPhone 7, 32 GB, eliminates 
issues with the inadequate 16GB capacity 
With these positive features, though, 
comes the less-exciting removal of 
the headphone jack. Traditional 
headphones will still work, as Apple 
includes an adapter. But, without 
buying a separate dock, it will be 
impossible to charge your phone 
while listening to headphones. Apple’s 
removal of the headphone jack serves 
as another push by the company to 
further polarize its products from 
Android and Windows counterparts. 
It’s also another push for Apple to 
market its Airpods, a pair of wireless 
earbuds. An emerging segment of 
headphones will accompany the sales 
of the new iPhone as a whole market 
for higher-end headphones with 
lightning cables develops.
If you’re not particularly beholden 
to Apple, there are numerous 
counterparts that offer more features. 
For example, the Samsung Galaxy Note 
7 has an IP68 rating, which makes it 
more water-resistant than the iPhone. 
It also has a higher resolution display, 
a dual-curved screen, microSD card 
expansion compatibility and much 
more customization with Android. 
T o be fair, the Note 7 did experience 
a battery issue and was plagued 
with recall. Still, the bolder design 
still illustrates the lengths that other 
companies are going to win customers. 
Apple’s problem with stagnant 
innovation stems from the fact 
that the company doesn’t face 
competition. Only Apple develops 
products running iOS and MacOS, 
while multiple Andriod and PC 
manufacturers are contending with 
each other. With this competition, 
they struggle to top one another and 
the group that benefits the most is 
the consumers, as ultimately these 
companies are all trying to win our 
business with lower prices and higher 
functionality. Apple’s desktop and 
laptop models haven’t been updated 
in years, something unheard of in the 
PC industry. This lack of innovation 
isn’t going unnoticed, as, according to 
CNN Money, Apple sales have fallen 
for a second straight quarter. 
There’s no doubt that the iPhone 
7 and 7 Plus are better than the 
previous models, but they simply can’t 
compete with other smartphones on 
the market. If you don’t need the new 
iPhone now, you’re better off holding 
off until 2017 when Apple is rumored 
to completely redesign the iPhone 8 
for the 10th anniversary of the iPhone. ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Office
and Pepper
Canyon HallOutside
Bookstore at
Library WalkGilman
Parking Office
7–9 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,
and 4–5 p.m.
weekdays
Current registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded. 
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/19/2016Weekdays
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.As needed per 
signs at Gilman 
Parking OfficeiCommutesd.comOctober is 
Rideshare Month!
Register today 
for a chance to win prizes
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardiansanctuary campus would mitigate 
these factors by reducing the presence 
of immigration agents on campus and 
ensuring that undocumented students 
can pursue their futures safely.
In addition, there are financial 
reasons not to support ICE. An 
estimated $12,500 is spent on each 
deportation, according to cnsnews, 
slightly more than the annual cost 
to educate a child in the California 
school system. Furthermore, ICE 
has an annual budget of roughly 
$6.2 billion and grows at a rate of 
roughly 7 percent per year according 
to Department of Homeland Security 
Budgets. This is a tremendous amount 
of money for the deportation of only 
42,000 undocumented immigrants in 
2015, and we should not support this 
blatant excess of spending by allowing 
our officers to be a part of a bloated 
system. Furthermore, while many media outlets dramatize murders by 
undocumented immigrants (such 
as the case in San Francisco during 
which a woman was murdered 
by an undocumented worker), 
undocumented persons actually have 
a far lower incarceration rate of 1.6 
percent compared to 3.3 percent of 
the general population according to 
the American Immigration Council. 
By preventing officers and employees 
from associating with ICE, we can 
focus our administrative efforts on 
other, more serious crimes like sexual 
assault and burglary. Becoming a 
sanctuary campus, therefore, would 
free up campus resources for other, far 
more essential problems that concern 
students daily.
It is also concerning that our 
tuition money is going to support 
a brutal system of deportation. 
Currently, student tuition funds 
collaboration with ICE agents, which 
is essential for deporting UCSD students. ICE generally relies on 
local law enforcement — in this 
case, the UCSD campus police — 
to refer undocumented workers 
to its jurisdiction for deportation. 
This usually occurs after even a 
simple crime or infraction, such as a 
traffic stop or misdemeanor. This is 
blatantly unfair to immigrants who 
are attending higher education. We 
should not permit our tuition money 
to perpetuate such injustices.
Becoming a sanctuary campus 
would be a significant step in ensuring 
protection for undocumented students 
and allowing them to continue their 
studies without fear of deportation. As 
such, it is imperative that Chancellor 
Khosla takes steps to separate UCSD 
from a brutal system which misleads, 
disenfranchises and directly harms a 
segment of the UCSD population.
NA THAN  W ALKER▶ SANCTUARY from page 4
NWALKER@UCSD.EDU
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
When I started classes last year, I was initially surprised by how little of my day 
was actually taken up by school. In high school, I was in class for seven hours 
straight, but in college I found myself having a lot of free time outside of class. Of course 
the free time was partially consumed by work, but the freedom forced me to be a lot 
more independent in managing my priorities. 
         I’m still close with my suitemates. I live with some of them now and plan on 
visiting others throughout the year. This isn’t uncommon — entering college, you are 
an anonymous kid in the middle of a huge unfamiliar campus. Y our suitemates are 
your first friends and your suite becomes your first home away from home. Even 
if your suitemates don’t become your best friends, there is a familiarity and bond 
that will always remain. And if you ever miss home, just call your friends and 
family. They will always appreciate it. 
On the other hand, entering college can also create a divide between 
yourself and the people back home. At the start of my first year, I 
found that I was distancing myself from my friends and family, 
and hurting the relationships that I used to cherish. So 
keep in touch. Embrace the new atmosphere but 
don’t forget about the people you used 
to know. 
It’s always fun to think about my first day of college, where I am now and all the 
experiences that have accumulated during that time. I think the most exciting thing 
about my first quarter at UCSD is living in a suite. The transition from living with 
your parents to suddenly living with 15 other people can be daunting. The best advice 
I can give is to be open-minded about the people around you and have the ability 
to see things from their perspectives. My first year taught me that you’re going to 
connect with some people, and with others, not so much. I still talk to a lot of my 
suitemates, and although we don’t see each other as often, every time we meet, all 
the experiences we had are brought with us.
My advice for freshmen? Nothing is ever going to come to you. Go out 
there and get what you want. Be the person you want to become and be 
a positive influence to the people around you. 
Q: What was the thing that surprised you the most when you started school here?
A: Before entering college there were a lot of stigmas about the intensity of the work, but really, it isn’t too bad. 
I mean, college is challenging, but if you applied yourself in high school and you apply yourself here, you will be 
fine. It’s sort of a “clouds part once you enter them” kind of thing.
 Q: How close are you to your freshman year suitemates? How did they shape your first year here?
A: I’m still pretty close to most of them. I’m living with two of them right now and we still plan on visiting the others. 
We bonded in the first year just because we were forced to live with each other and that relationship continues even 
after freshman year.
 Q: How did you get over homesickness?
A: I personally didn’t experience much homesickness but an occasional call to your parents or friends always 
helps.
 Q: What is the worst mistake you made as a freshman?
A: I regret not going to class enough. Y ou think that it won’t matter but eventually it catches 
up to you.
 Q: What is the best advice you’ d give to incoming freshman this year?     
A: Make sure you go to class. As long as you work a little 
every day, you won’t fall behind.UCSDMy  first 
year  at
Harrison Lee
2nd year, Marshall
Alvin Chan
4th year, ERCNikhil Goel
2nd year, MarshallBeginning your first year in college can be a 
daunting experience, especially at a university 
as big as UCSD.  You may feel far away 
from home, lost without your old friends or 
overwhelmed by the added responsibilities 
that come with living on your own. Don’t 
worry: Everyone goes through these challenges 
at first but most turn out just fine. Learn 
how these older students learned to adjust 
to college life during their freshman years at 
UCSD.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Leaving home to blaze your own trail at the ripe age of 18 sounds like 
a fine idea when in high school, and you’re right — it is. Still, there are 
inevitable moments when the homesickness blues seep in and ruin your fun, 
most likely when you fail to recreate mom’s famous casserole or see a cute 
dog that reminds you of your own. I overcame those feelings by following 
the free food and going to events where I could meet new people, or by 
going to the beach to appreciate the things I have here that I don’t have 
back home. Another method I found useful was occupying my mind with 
sports, video games, Netflix or, yes, homework. The key is to not sulk in 
your sadness while being aware that it’s normal to feel homesick. Y ou 
don’t have to pretend like everything’s A-OK all of the time. When 
all else fails, my favorite — and probably the most effective 
method of all — is to simply call home. Y ou’ d be surprised 
how good it feels to tell your loved ones “I miss you. ”
Q: What was the thing that 
surprised you the most when you 
started school here?A: People! The thing that 
surprised me the most when 
I first came to UCSD was the 
sheer size of the student body. 
With an undergraduate student 
population of 26,590, I was 
overwhelmed. My classes were 
in huge lecture halls and, 
even in my first quarter, one 
had 700 people! I came 
from a small Catholic 
high school in Orange 
County, and UCSD 
was a big change. 
 Q: How close are you to your 
freshman year suitemates? How 
did they shape your first year here?A: I was not too close with 
my freshman year suitemates, 
although they all were very close. 
I was busy with athletics and the 
intercollegiate volleyball team, 
so I didn’t hang out with them 
enough to achieve “best friend” 
status. I did, however, love playing 
video games with them and that 
was a major stress reliever during 
freshman year. 
Q: How did you get over 
homesickness?A: Homesickness is a real thing, 
although I did not experience it as 
harshly as others did. Almost all 
of my immediate family lives in 
the Orange County/Los Angeles 
area, and I would visit home almost twice a quarter, scheduling 
my visits around midterm dates 
and taking the train home for the 
weekends I didn’t have to study. 
The one time I really did wish I was 
home was when I got pneumonia 
during winter quarter and was in 
bed for two weeks. I just wanted 
my mom! 
Q: What is the worst mistake you 
made as a freshman?A: The worst mistake I made as 
a freshman was being hesitant or 
indecisive with my major. I came 
into UCSD undeclared and truly 
had no idea what I wanted to do 
(I only knew I did not like 
math). Throughout 
freshman year, 
my major 
went from undeclared, 
international studies - economics, 
economics and then finally 
cognitive science (specializing in 
computation, the math-intensive 
one). If I had proactively researched 
different majors, it would not have 
taken me so long to find one that 
I enjoy. 
Q: What is the best advice you’ d 
give to incoming freshman this 
year?A: The best advice I’ d give to 
the current freshmen is to not 
worry. Be proactive, be studious, 
but do not worry. In this time of change and acclimation to a new 
adult and independent life, the last 
thing you want to do is stress 
yourself out with “what ifs” or 
grand nightmares about failing. 
The great proverbial “it” will be 
hard, but you have four years and 
then a whole lifetime to get the 
hang of it. Also, as an aside, take 
advantage of every opportunity 
afforded to you. 
Q: What was the thing that surprised you the most when you started school here?A: I was surprised by how the lack of a constant weekly routine (i.e. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.) 
would be so difficult to adjust to and how hard it was to balance my schedule between school, 
extracurriculars and exercise. 
Q: How close are you to your freshman year suitemates? How did they shape your first year here?A: Half of my suitemates are my best friends, and I live with them still. The other half I say “hi” to 
when I see them around campus. 
Q: How did you get over homesickness?A: I would call my parents when I felt really homesick. If that wasn’t enough, I would take the 
bus off campus to get boba or food with my friends because I would always do that back home. 
Q: What is the worst mistake you made as a freshman?A: Watching too much Netflix and being addicted to shows during midterms and 
finals was probably my worst mistake. 
Q: What is the best advice you’ d give to incoming freshman this year?A: Don’t compare yourself to others. There are so many motivated 
people at UCSD. Y ou should try to find things you are 
passionate about, but also try lots of new things! Q: What was the thing that surprised you the most when you started school here?
A: I didn’t get to do any tours before I enrolled, so the size of campus was probably the first thing that stood out.
Q:  How close are you to your freshman year suitemates? How did they shape your first year here?
A: I’m still good friends with my freshman suitemates, so much so that I’m living with them again this year. I like to 
think I’m lucky that we got along so well. My social life would have been much more empty.
Q: How did you get over homesickness?
A: I tried to make the most of the people and places around me. I would remind myself that college isn’t permanent 
and that I’ll be able to visit home soon.
Q: What is the worst mistake you made as a freshman?
A: Not really joining any orgs or not going to office hours. It probably would’ve been easier to build up 
experience and connections if I had started earlier.
Q: What is the best advice you’ d give to incoming freshman this year?
A: Y ou probably can finish that research paper the night before but don’t do it. 
Finishing at 6 a.m. for your 9 a.m. class is not fun, and your paper is not going to 
be as good as it could have been. But besides that, don’t forget to balance 
your friends and hobbies and other fun things.
Matthew Zamudio
4th year, Sixth
Dominic Spencer 
3rd year, ERC
Morgan McCullough
3rd year, RevelleLisa Grega
3rd year, Revelle8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
JOIN US FOR A WEEK OF ASCE!
SEPT. 26-30FOLLOW US @UCSDASCEKICKOFF WEEKASCE
For more information, contact Carol at  ascechiefofsta ff@ucsd.edu • 858.534.0477  Sun God Lounge
Located above Price Center Theater and right next to Shogun, 
Sun God Lounge gives you a convenient study spot within a 
short walk of the restaurants at PC. With wide windows and 
massive posters detailing the history of Sun God Statue, the 
lounge has an open, refreshing feel to it — a nice break from the 
often-claustrophobic atmosphere at Geisel Library. Those without 
laptops will be happy to find 17 computers and two printers 
available to students. In addition to being a great spot for studying, 
Sun God lounge has three adjoining rooms available for meetings, 
all appropriately named after other campus landmarks.
Gliderport Lounge
If you live in Eleanor Roosevelt College or Thurgood Marshall 
College you probably dread the long walk to get to the center 
of campus and back. For a more convenient study spot, go to 
Gliderport Lounge, located next to RIMAC and above Home Plate. 
Being on the second floor of the building makes it easy to miss, 
but the large windows give you excellent views of RIMAC Field 
and the Pacific Ocean, creating a relaxing place to work or hang 
out. Unlike many of the locations on this list, Gliderport Lounge 
doesn’t have computers or printers, though if you need them you 
can find them downstairs in Peet’s Coffee.
Treehouse Lounge
True to its name, Treehouse Lounge gives you the feeling of 
being immersed in a canopy of trees. Located above the Bike Shop 
in the Old Student Center,  you’ll find plenty of computers and 
printers. However, if you want to work on your own laptop, be 
warned: There aren’t any power outlets. When you need a quick 
snack or some coffee, the General Store and Food Co-op are right downstairs.
Wome n’s Ce nte r
Located on the second story in between Mandeville Center 
and the Original Student Center, the Women’s Center offers 
several resources dedicated to advancing students’ understanding 
of feminism and gender issues. These resources include a library 
and a plethora of workshops to attend, such as the Weekly Gender 
Buffet and the Life Skills series. The center also has a bathroom 
and shower available for those who may need them. The staff 
are wonderful in both presenting events and making visitors feel 
welcome whenever they come.
Black Resource Center
According to its website, the Black Resource Center is a 
community center that “serves everyone at UC San Diego while 
emphasizing the Black experience, ” which means, of course, that 
everyone is welcome regardless of their racial background. The 
BRC was created in Fall Quarter 2013 in order to create a safe 
space for black students at UCSD, particularly in reaction to 
racially charged events that happened in Winter Quarter 2010. 
Programs directly serving the black community include the Black 
Men’s Collective, a “closed space for students, staff and faculty 
members to have informal conversations about experience as 
Black men, ” as well as the Black Graduation Ceremony, an event 
before commencement that celebrates the achievements of the 
African-American community. Y ou can find the office directly 
above the Food Co-op in the Old Student Center.
Raza Resource Centro
Located on the first floor of the Student Services Center, the Raza Resource Centro is dedicated to serving UCSD’s Chicana/o 
and Latina/o communities. The Centro offers a computer lab 
and kitchen for those who need to study as well as a Chicano 
library and conference rooms for students who wish to learn 
about the Chicana/o experience. Like the Black Resource Center, 
Raza serves its community through several programs aimed at 
bettering the community, including peer counseling, graduate 
school preparation, a weekly writing collective and much more. 
The resource center employs professional staff as well as several 
undergraduates; if you are looking to be a leader on campus and 
get involved in your community, keep that in mind.
LGBT Resource Center
Across from the Women’s Center, the LGBT Resource Center 
is dedicated to improving the visibility of LGBTQIA+ causes 
on campus, having hosted events such as Out and Proud Week 
and candlelight vigils to reflect on the issues of the lesbian, gay, 
transgender, bisexual and intersex communities, and containing 
a library with a wide selection of queer-related books. One 
progressive feature of the center is a gender-neutral restroom, 
for students who feel more comfortable not using the gendered 
restrooms around campus. Though the center is meant especially 
for the LGBT community, like all other resource centers, students 
of all backgrounds are welcome.
Oliver Kel ton    okelton@ucsd.eduPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianBeyond Geisel: Where to Study on Campus
By Oliver Kelton // Features EditorCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
FLOR
THE LOFT, PC EASTTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
SEP 26 - OCT 22016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 9. 26
4pm
ENGINEERS ON THE GREEN - MATTHEWS QUAD 
Come out and have some carnival fun with your fellow 
engineers! Win prizes, play games, compete in bouncy sumo 
wrestling, and meet all of the engineering student 
organizations! Contact: idea@soe.ucsd.edu
7pm
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT MIXER - GREAT HALL 
(INTERNATIONAL HOUSE)
Join us for an evening of fun, food, and friends! Meet other 
international students at UCSD and maybe do a bit of line 
dancing! This event is open to ALL international students at 
UC San Diego to encourage the relationship between years 
and strenghten our international community! Contact: 
grfuller@ucsd.edu 
8:30pm
FLOR - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Good vibes, captivating melodies, and a distinctly ethereal 
sound define this intriguing yet mysterious band. An identity 
of music that encompasses both sound and the visual 
realm,building an experience for listeners to captivate the 
soul and imagination. Flor has carved a niche for itself in 
the musical genre, inspiring an energetic, youthful spirit. 
Members Zach Grace, Dylan William, McKinley Kitts, and 
Kyle Hill make up this 4-piece alt-pop band. Since Flor's 
single, "Heart",appeared online just over a year ago, 
accompanied by an Instagram of quick-cut, pastel 
animated videos, Flor has steadily built its fanbase across 
Europe and the US, touring w/ Halsey & BAs. After signing to 
Fueled by Ramen this year, Flor's debut album is due in 
2017. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu4pm
GLOBAL FORUM KICKOFF: GLOBAL CITIZEN, 
LOCAL ACTIVIST - THE GREAT HALL AT 
I-HOUSE
Come grab a bite to eat and chat with folks from the San 
Diego Diplomacy Council, Model UN, and Prospect: The 
International Affairs Journal. Discuss issues that matter to 
YOU and learn what you can do to empower yourselves, your 
communities, and your planet. Also, you can get a glimpse 
of upcoming Global Forums and enter our raffle for a chance 
to win some great prizes! Required registration: 
tinyurl.com/GlobalForum9-28 Contact: 
ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
5pm
QT FEST - LGBT RESOURCE CENTER 
Join us for a Fall Welcome event for our campus community 
at the LGBT Resource Center. We'll have tours, a photobooth, 
and more! Contact: rainbow@ucsd.edu
5pm
FIRST STEPS TO STUDY ABROAD INFO SESSION 
- STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Start your quarter off right by attending an overview on how 
to study abroad at UC San Diego. Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
8:30pm
HOTEL GARUDA - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER 
EAST
Hotel Garuda featuring DJ Candle Weather. Hotel Garuda is 
the brain child of Manila Killa and Candle Weather. The 
group has found success in creating a unique house sound 
that has found a wide audience, snagging multiple #1 slots 
on The Hype Machine thanks to their remixes of "Rhythm of 
the Night", "Ultraviolence", and "Begging for Thread." The 
duo's success has led to Hotel Garuda being named as one 
of the Top 25 Artists To Watch by Dancing Astronaut and 
Your EDM in 2015 as well as breakout artist of 2015 by 
Wave. With their debut original single "Smoke Signals" now 
climbing the charts, Hotel Garuda is just getting started. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu10am
UCSD BLOOD DRIVE - BLOODMOBILE ON 
LIBRARY WALK
Donate blood and help save lives! September 27-29, 2016. 
Come by the San Diego Blood Bank Bloodmobile on Library 
Walk. Appointments can be made online through 
www.sandiegobloodbank.org, click on "Donate Blood", select 
"appointments" and provide sponsor code: UCPC. Walk ins 
are welcome! Bring picture identification, drink plenty of 
fluids prior to donation and maintain healthy eating habits 
on day of donation.
8pm
UNDERGRADUATE INVESTMENT SOCIETY 
FALL RECRUITMENT - OTTERSON HALL 
1S114, RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Interested in Business? Undergraduate Investment Society 
("UIS") is recruiting new members for the upcoming fall! We 
are a home to many investment bankers, consultants, 
accountants and entrepreneurs. Come to our info session to 
learn more about the different careers in finance and how 
UIS can help YOU get started on landing that internship and 
full time offer! Contact: uis.ucsd@gmail.com 8582636228TUE9. 2 7 WED9. 2 8MON 9. 26  • 8:30pm
FRI9. 3 0
SAT10.0111am
THE INAUGURAL SOCIAL INNOVATION 
SHOWCASE - PRICE CENTER PLAZA 
Meet with students, staff, faculty and community partners 
as they share how their projects impact the world. Get 
FREE FOOD. Learn about Social Innovation Opportunities. 
Meet Changemakers and find out how to get involved in 
the Social Innovation Seminar Doing Good Better, get 
funding through the Social Innovation Fund, attend CGIU 
and join organizations making a social impact in the 
world. Contact: rcrawford@ucsd.edu
6pm
PANHELLENIC SORORITY RECRUITMENT - 
PRICE CENTER
Lifelong friends? Women supporting other women? Getting 
to connect instantly with an organization from coast to 
coast? Ways to get involved with the community while 
you're in college? Join the Panhellenic Community at UC 
San Diego! Visit tritongreeks.org/phc to for more 
information and to register for recruitment! Contact: 
phcmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
CONVICTION (PRE-SCREENING) - THE 
LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Catch an exclusive pre-screening of ABC's newest show 
Conviction! Free for UCSD Students w/ ID. Conviction 
follows a brilliant young attorney (Hayley Atwell), who is 
also the daughter of a former U.S. president and is 
blackmailed to head up NYC's new Conviction Integrity 
Unit. She and her team investigate cases where people 
may have been wrongly convicted. Series officially 
premiers 10/3 on ABC. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTHU9. 2 9CHECK OUT THE FALL QUARTER 2016 
ACADEMIC FRESHMAN SEMINAR LIST!  - UCSD
The Freshman Seminar Program offers a wide variety of 
academic topics in a small class format for freshmen. *Get 
to know your professor *Meet incoming students *The small 
class size encourages class discussion *Receive one-unit of 
credit on a P/NP basis. Students enroll through WebReg 
during the freshman enrollment period with regular classes. 
Seminars are open to freshmen (and first-year freshmen 
with sophomore standing). Seminars can be a great 
educational experience and complement your regular 
classes! Check out the seminar website for course 
descriptions, schedules and pre-enrollment instructions for 
incoming freshmen who have advanced standing. Contact: 
msidney@ucsd.edu
ILEAD AND SEMINAR REGISTRATION DEADLINE 
- CENTER FOR STUDENT INVOLVEMENT - 
COMMUNICATION AND LEADERSHIP
The Center for Student Involvement - Communication and 
Leadership programs help you build confidence and develop 
skills in leadership, public speaking, interpersonal 
relationships, and professional communication. All 
programs are FREE for UCSD students so be sure to sign up 
before Friday of Week 1! Contact: ccl@ucsd.eduSUN10.02
6pm
FRATERNITY INFO NIGHT - WARREN LECTURE 
HALL
Interested in Greek life? Come discover what being Greek 
actually means at the Fraternity Info Night. Learn about the 
amazing opportunities you can find in joining a fraternity 
here at UCSD! Fraternity Info Night is a formal chance for 
students interested in Greek life to learn a little bit more 
about each individual fraternity. Every IFC (Interfraternity 
Council) Fraternity will have representatives present, and 
each chapter will be making a short presentation on the 
unique opportunities each has to offer. Afterwards, there will 
be a meet-and-greet session to interact more personally 
with individuals from each chapter. Get to know the 
chapters, attend their rush events, and discover your home 
away from home in the Greek system!  Contact: 
ifcrecruitment@ucsd.edu
8:30pm
SIGMA PHI EPSILON (SIGEP)- RUSH WEEK - 
MEET AT PETERSON HALL LOOP
Sigma Phi Epsilon's Rush Week for Fall 2016 will have 5 
events. The first event will take place on Sunday, October 
2nd at the Bear Room (located in Sun God Lounge next to 
Shogun/PC Plaza) directly after IFC Info Night. This will be 
our only On-Campus event. The rest of the events will be 
Off-Campus.9am
TELEMEDICINE AND INTERNATIONAL 
HEALTH CONFERENCE - MET (ROOM LL154)
Dr. Cardenas will lecture from the Tijuana hospital via 
Telemedicine on facial reanimation followed by a live surgery 
of first stage cross facial nerve graft for facial paralysis (4 yr 
old patient). RSVP to reserve a seat at the MET Room LL154 
UCSD campus or to receive link to join remotely.
8pm
TRITON FEST - POOLSIDE CINEMA - 
CANYONVIEW POOL
Dive into a night of cinematic entertainment and delicious 
food at our Poolside Cinema! Munch on tasty treats and 
enjoy a double-feature while chilling in a floatie or lounging 
poolside. Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1 Place for papers
 11 Caesar’s partner
 15 Pharmacist
 16 Son of Judah
 17 Ballet turns
 18 Flat fee?
 19 Get a whiff of
 20 Livestock tidbit
 21 Summon to court
 22 Sicilian volcano
 25 Tuneful
 27 Chandler novel, with “The”
 31 Team spirit
 32 Boston hockey great
 33 __ Rice Burroughs
 35 Blanched
 36 Abbr. on folk music
 38 Ab exercise
 40 Section of a basilica
 41 Silent
 43 Steps over a fence
 45 “One Flew over the Cuckoo’s Nest” 
writer Kesey
 46 Black Sea port
 48 Unskilled
 50 Mail by mistake
 52 Gratify completely
 53 Masculine
 54 Practical joke
 56 Of the kidneys
 60 Of the ear
 61 Disembowel
 64 Offshoot group
 65 Facial features
 66 Clucking sounds
 67 Took the first stepDown
  1 Catches forty winks
 2 Heroic in scope
 3 Had on
 4 Rocks
 5 Airport connector
 6 PGA peg
 7 Put on a performance
 8 W. alliance
 9 Kind of team or boat
 10 Methodology
 11 Washington D.C. art gallery
 12 Body of water near Syracuse
 13 Type of bridge
 14 Cause
 23 Beatty and Buntline
 24 Sponsorship
 26 Hang in loose folds
 27 Lowest
 28 Casts light upon
 29 Jefferson Airplane singer
 30 Page or LaBelle
 34 Spoils
 37 Examines in minute detail
 39 Not guilty or guilty
 42 Half a fly?
 44 Off the charts
 47 Anaheim baseball team
 49 Gazed intently
 51 Shipboard crane
 55 Gershon of “Bound”
 57 One-billionth: pref.
 58 Westernmost of the Aleutian Islands
 59 For fear that
 62 Sun. speech
 63 Garfield or FelixFURNITURE
Coffee Tables - Glass-top, gold-iron 
coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Antique French Dining Set - Antique 
oak dining room table from France with 
leaves and table seats. Price includes 
all chairs and the leaves. Images and 
contact information on Advertigo web -
site. Listing ID: 305156998 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Inch Mattress Topper for Full Size Bed 
- Bought this last week in Stanford 
Studios, but the size doesn’t work for 
me--I have a smaller bed than a full 
size. Available immediately for pick -
up on campus. Images and contact 
info on Advertigo website. Listing ID: 
305157004 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and 
Sony Bag - $300. Literally new condi -
tion. Used a total of three times. I’m not 
a photographer. Just thought cameras 
were cool when I bought it and I never 
take photos. Including a tripod and 
Sony camera bag. Both bought sepa -
rately. Text/call, but prefer text because 
I work nights. Listing ID: 306503231 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. 
Perfect for tripods, light stand or what -
ever you need to ship. Professional 
travel case with wheels for easy trans -
port. This is the only case to use for 
airline travel. It protects your valu -
able equipment and is easy to handle. 
Made from ABS plastic, this case is 
just about indestructible. Travel storage 
case is four feet tall and twelve inches 
in diameter. It holds approximately six 
light stands. Listing ID: 306503235 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationPhoto and Video Lighting - $350. I 
have two pepper lights and one AR 
RI 300 plus lights with shutters and 
mounts. All three are working and are in 
attractive condition. They come with a 
pelican case and ballast. They all have 
bulbs and some lighting accessories. 
Listing ID: 306503233 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
PETS
Cavapoo Male, Oliver - $1200. Oliver is 
an astonishing male Cavapoo. He is the 
cream of the crop in San Diego. Oliver is 
up to date on his shots and vet checks 
and comes with a one-year health guar -
antee. Oliver is nine weeks, healthy 
and ready to go home today. 619-786-
7362 or http://www.puppyavenue.com. 
Listing ID: 306914397 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Silver Bengal Kittens - $1150. Two gor -
geous silver-spotted kittens available. 
Born 9/3/16. Should look similar to 
mom when full grown. Pics available. 
Ask me about our website. Listing ID: 
306914370 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Tame Scarlet Macaw Adult - $850. Big, 
tame scarlet macaw for sale. DNA tested 
male. Will make a great pet or breeder. A 
little plucked around the chest area. Call 
(858)397-4419. Listing ID: 305984550 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
your vision , our missio n.Your on-campus, s tudent-run , 
custom screen prin ting s ervice 
complete with graphic desig n 
capabilities and m erchandise
available from:
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd. eduCONTACT US TODAY FOR A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE 10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER (minimum 36 shirts) Ć EXPIRES 12/31/16
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianWANTED
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS CHILD?
Last seen robbing Hawkins Grocery Market
Approx 12 years of age, short hair, pink dress, navy blue jacket,
white shoes, carrying boxes of Eggo brand waffles
If seen please report to Hawkins P .D.
858-867-5309
or report to HAUNTED HOEDOWN
OCT 7, 2016 • 9pm
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
@UCSD_sportsSee More
UCSD Loses on the Road at CSUSMTritons Regain Reis Cup
Tritons fall 1 –0 to Cal State San Marcos after giving up a goal late in the second 
half due to a lapse on defense and with first loss of season go to a 5 –1–1 record.  UCSD knocks off Cal State San Marcos in four sets 
to reach a 3 –0 record in the CCAA and 6 –5 overall. W.VOLLEYBALL
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANThe fourth annual Reis Cup took 
center court at RIMAC Arena on 
Saturday, and it was none other 
than the UCSD women’s volleyball 
team who took the trophy home 
with a 3–1 victory over Cal State 
San Marcos.
It was a close match throughout 
as UCSD was able to just edge out 
San Marcos, in their second all-time 
meeting, 23–25, 25–20, 25–17 and 
25–22.  With the win, the Triton 
women move to 6–5 and 3–0 in 
conference play.   
Senior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright dominated the match with 
a match-high 21 kills and 23.5 total 
points to earn the Reis Cup MVP 
trophy. Wright filled up the stat 
sheet in all ways possible by adding 
seven digs and five blocks — an all-
around individual performance.
Additionally, junior libero 
Amanda Colla turned in her season’s 
best performance in contributing 
with 14 kills, 15 digs, two blocks 
and two assists. Freshman outside 
hitter Jessyca Beksa added 11 kills 
while sophomore libero Kayla Evans 
finished with 25 assists, 14 digs and 
four aces.  
Overall as a team, the Tritons hit a season best .264 (56–14–159) 
and held the advantage in the block 
department, 13–4.
The San Marcos women had a 
solid performance as well although 
being on the losing end — four total 
players finishing with double-figure 
kills. Sophomore setter Lauren Lee 
led the charge with 13, followed 
by outside hitters freshman Maddy 
Newcombe with 12, freshman 
Madi Anderson with 11, and senior 
Brooke Butler with 10. Freshman 
setter Alesse Wheaton had herself 
a match with the Cougars as she 
ended the day with an impressive 
double-double, 41 assists and               
21 digs.  
In the Reis Cup’s four years of 
existence, UCSD has now improved 
to a 3–1 record.  The annual event 
commemorates the life of former 
Triton player Karen Reis who passed 
away in 2012. 
After a seven-game long stretch 
of home games the Tritons will 
head back on the road and travel to 
Northern California to take on Cal 
State East Bay on Sept. 30, followed 
by a match the next night on Oct. 1 
against Cal State Monterey Bay, both 
at 7 p.m. Traveling to Cal State San Marcos 
for the finale of a two-game road trip, 
the No. 21 UCSD men’s soccer team 
looked to maintain its undefeated 
status in a match against the Cal State 
San Marcos Cougars. Unfortunately, 
the Tritons fell short, dropping their 
first match of the season to San 
Marcos in a tight 1–0 match. 
Scorewise, the first period was 
a quiet affair as the game remained 
scoreless for the first 45 minutes of 
play. The score was not due to a lack 
of offense but strong defense: Just 
minutes into the game, UCSD senior 
goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh 
earned his first save of the game. Despite McElfresh’s three total saves, 
it only took one breakdown to take 
down the Tritons. About 21 minutes 
into the second period, the Cougars 
took the upper hand with a close-
ranged dagger off of a deflection 
and ended UCSD’s shutout streak of    
four games. 
Unfortunately for the Tritons, the 
team was unable to act out any last-
minute heroics, as it failed to convert 
on any of its next three shots on the 
goal, leading to a 1–0 disappointment 
for the Tritons. 
In spite of the goose egg on the 
scoreboard, senior midfielders Riley 
Harbour and Nick Palano, each with 
two shots on the goal, kept the Cougar 
defense honest while the team as a 
whole played a relatively clean game with just five fouls compared to the 
Cougars’ whopping 18 total fouls.
“ After an even first half I thought 
we really controlled the second half, 
so it was a little unfortunate to give 
up that kind of goal, ” UCSD head 
coach Jon Pascale told the Athletics 
Department. “Y ou can’t give away 
goals and expect to win games. ”
With the loss, UCSD is now 
5–1–1 overall and 0–1 in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association play, 
while Cal State San Marcos improved 
to 2–2 overall and 1–0 in CCAA play. 
Next, the Tritons return to La Jolla to 
face off with CCAA rival Chico State 
on Sept. 25.BY  D a n i e l   H e r n a n d e z
senior BY  A l e x  W u
Sports Editorial assistantM.SOCCER
Daniel  Hernandez   dah043@ucsd.eduAlex Wu     SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After disposing of Loyola 
Marymount University 
11–10 in its first game of 
conference play, No. 14 UCSD put in 
another dominating performance on 
Friday night, routing Fresno Pacific 
University 16–6 at Canyonview 
Aquatic Center. With their second 
win in as many conference games, 
the Tritons now stand at 6–4 overall 
and 2–0 in the Western Water                      
Polo Association.
First Quarter: 
UCSD – 4, FPU – 2
UCSD opened the game firing on 
all cylinders, quickly scoring 
two goals by 
s o p h o m o r e 
utility Cole 
Martinez  
and freshman 
utility Skylar Munatones. The Sunbirds leveled the 
score at 2–2 after two goals of their 
own, but UCSD took back the lead 
in the final minute of the quarter. 
Junior utility Arman Momdzhyan and 
freshman utility David Albers were 
the scorers for the Tritons.
Second Quarter: 
UCSD – 4, FPU – 1
FPU pulled within one score of 
the Tritons at the beginning of the 
second quarter, when senior driver 
David Maes scored on the team’s first 
possession. That was as close as the 
Sunbirds would get to UCSD for the 
rest of the game, however, as 
UCSD scored four goals in 
the period.
Third Quarter: 
UCSD – 4, FPU – 0
Sophomore goalkeeper 
Jack Turner held the 
Sunbirds scoreless in the third period en route to 12 
saves for the games. UCSD’s offense 
also continued to hum, scoring four 
more goals on senior goalkeeper            
Dillon Robinson. 
Fourth Quarter: 
UCSD – 4, FPU – 3
The Tritons entered the fourth 
quarter up 12–3 and cruised to an easy 
10-goal win over the Sunbirds. UCSD 
allowed three goals in the period, as 
many as in the rest of game, but also 
scored four of its own, bringing the 
final score to 16–6.
“Defense needs to step it up, ” 
Munatones told UCSD Athletics. 
“Coach has been telling us to 
step up our individual defense. 
This week is going to be a 
good week of training, Air 
Force is going to come at us 
as usual, and we need to be 
prepared for that game. ”Momdzhyan had a game-high 
four goals for the Tritons, followed 
by Martinez and senior utility Nassim 
Hmeidan who had two each. Eight 
other Tritons scored goals. For FPU, 
Maes scored four of the six goals, 
while Robinson compiled eight saves.
“I’m pleased that we won the 
game, ” UCSD men’s water polo coach 
Denny Harper told UCSD Athletics. 
”Fresno Pacific is a very improved 
team. But you know, we’re still making 
way too many mistakes, but we’ll get 
back to practice and correct those. ”
UCSD’s next game will be on 
Friday, Sept. 30 at 7 p.m., when the 
t e a m travels to Colorado 
Springs to take on 
Air Force in a 
Western Water 
Polo Association 
matchup.
“We held them to only six goals [on defense], 
however, just to sit there the last two 
ball games and watch us play a man-
down 25 times [is too much], we have 
to correct that for when we go play at 
Air Force, ” Harper said.Men’s Water Polo  Demolishes Fresno Pacific
By Marcus Thuillier // Managing Editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANMarcus Thuillier    mthuilli@ucsd.eduWith victory, Tritons remain perfect in WWPA conference play. UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Soccer
W.Volleyball  
M. Water Polo
W.Soccer
W.Volleyball 9/30
9/30
9/30
9/30
10/1VS Sonoma State
AT Cal State East Bay
AT Air Force
VS Sonoma State 
AT Cal State Monterey Bay