VOLUME 50, ISSUE 15   THURSDA Y , NOVEMBER 10, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LOOKS FROM  
WITHIN
INTROVERTS, UNITE. BE BOLD 
IN YOUR SOFT-SPOKENNESS 
AND GO WILD DURING A 
NIGHT IN. PUT ON THOSE 
SWEATPANTS, BUST OUT THE 
“GOLDEN GIRLS: EXTENDED 
EDITION” AND ALLOW 
YOURSELF TO WASTE THE 
NIGHT AWAY, GUILT-FREE. 
TA K E   C A R E   O F   Y O U R S E L F
CCAA  CHAMPSELECTION  AFTERMA TH
women  and  men's  soccerOPINION, P age   4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
GIVEN THE ELABORATE 
‘DIVERSITY’ INFRASTRUCTURE 
NOW IN PLACE AT UCSD, 
IRONICALLY THE RESULT OF 
PAST STUDENT ACTIVISM, 
ADMINISTRATORS CHARGED 
TO ADDRESS THESE MATTERS 
NEED TO DO BETTER.”
- JORGE MARISCAL
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
OPINION , PAGE 5
INSIDE
INFLUENZA  ..................... 2
RESOURCES  .................... 5
BLACK MIRROR  ............... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
SOCCER  ........................ 12weekend,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
THURSDAY
H 83 L 59FRIDAY
H 78 L 58
SATURDAY
H 76 L 56SUNDAY
 H 77 L 56
The opening of the At-Risk World 
Heritage and Cyber Archaeology 
project at Geisel Library Monday 
morning marked the initiation of 
the Digital Media Lab’s first virtual 
reality experience. The Cave 
Automatic Virtual Environment, 
or CAVE kiosk, located in Geisel 
East, represents the halfway point 
in a two-year cyber-archaeology 
program that combines the efforts 
of UCSD, UCLA, UC Merced and 
UC Berkeley.  
The kiosk features six 4K 
resolution television screens, each 
displaying part of a vivid image 
showcasing archaeological sites from 
Greece, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco 
and other at-risk cultural sites. All 
students and visitors can navigate the 
dig sites in virtual reality through the 
use of an Oculus Rift headset and an 
Xbox controller.The purpose of the kiosk is to 
preserve cultural heritage sites that 
are under high risk due to escalating 
violence from terrorist groups. 
“World heritage refers to the 
tangible and intangible artifacts 
and material cultures that relate 
to humanities, ” Dr. Thomas Levy, 
a professor in the department 
of anthropology and director of 
Qualcomm Institute’s Center for 
Cyber-Archaeology, told the UCSD 
Guardian. “These are of such 
importance to telling the story of 
humanity that we call them world 
heritage sites. ”  
Throughout the course of 
war, many historical sites become 
caught in the crossfire, with some 
of the most recent losses caused 
by the extremist Islamic State. A 
destroyed site can never be visited, 
but it can still be preserved virtually, 
increasing the site’s reach to people 
who otherwise would have been unable to visit the location.
Sixth College junior Connor 
Smith, who worked on developing 
the software for the virtual reality 
display, explained that the purpose 
of the project was to create an 
interactive experience. 
“Our task was to take 
archaeological data that was 
captured at these famous sites and 
visualize it in a meaningful way in 
virtual reality devices, ” Smith said. 
“We made an interactive platform 
where you can add images, you can 
add video, you can add sound … 
and the goal is that archaeologists 
can put any data they want into our 
system and we will visualize it in an 
enjoyable way for the public. You 
can actually fly around these sites.“  
The display in Geisel Library is 
one of four planned for construction 
across the UC campuses: one here, 
and the other three at UCLA, UC Political Science 
Department 
Hosts Election 
Viewing PartyCAMPUS
The department chair 
attributed the highest turnout  
in the event’s history to 
growing political involvement.
Hundreds of students attended 
the fifth presidential election 
viewing party held by the UCSD 
political science department on 
Tuesday night, when students 
gathered to watch the voting results 
come in. The free event featured 
a competition to predict election 
outcomes and a brief discussion on 
political unity. The department’s 
graduate students answered 
questions on topics like the swing 
states or California propositions.
The viewing party began at 6:45 
p.m. with a long line of students 
filing into Price Center Theater and 
picking up pizza and drinks along 
the way. After almost everyone 
was inside, representatives from 
the Office of the Ombuds, which 
offers dispute resolution services, 
attempted to start a discussion 
on the events of the election 
season. However, the discussion 
quickly ended when students 
were noticeably distracted as they 
watched the poll returns. The event 
continued until around 9:15 p.m., 
with Assemblywoman Lorena 
Gonzalez (D-San Diego) giving a 
brief speech before the party’s end 
where she expressed her support for 
then-presidential candidate Hillary 
Clinton. Chair of the political 
science department Professor Thad 
Kousser also spoke before the event 
ended and announced the winners 
of the prediction contest.
Kousser told the UCSD Guardian 
that the purpose of the event was to 
foster student interest in the election 
and politics in general.
“Every year, we are always 
reminded of how passionate and 
informed UCSD students are about 
the election, and we want to give 
them a place to come together 
as a community to watch history 
together, ” Kousser said.
Sophomore Tobias Schumacher, 
a German exchange student, 
attended the event because he 
was interested in experiencing an 
American election viewing party.
“[I] wanted to see how an 
election party actually is, especially 
in such a historic vote because I 
feel like this is the kind of vote 
that divides the country into two, ” 
Schumacher explained. 
The event was supposed to be 
held at the Great Hall in I-House, 
but because the number of students 
who registered with Eventbrite to 
attend reached maximum capacity, 
it was relocated to Price Center 
Theater. 
While the event has garnered 
good turnout in the past, Kousser Senator-Elect Kamala Harris Visits Campus for Rally
Senator-elect Kamala Harris attended an event 
on Nov. 7 along with several other local and state 
politicians in support of Col. Doug Applegate’s 
campaign to “Flip the 49th, ” a slogan targeted at 
unseating 15-year Republican incumbent Rep. Darrell 
Issa. Issa represents the 49th Congressional District, 
which encompasses northern coastal areas of San 
Diego County including Oceanside, Vista, Carlsbad 
and Encinitas.
According to Scott Miller, the campaign’s deputy 
political director, an official endorsement from 
Harris was no small gesture. 
“Having the attorney general of the state of 
California and the next senator for the state of 
California join us for a rally is huge, ” Miller told the 
UCSD Guardian. “It shows the support we’ve been 
getting from the community and not only the state 
but from the country. ” 
Chaiken echoed his statement and mentioned her high approval rating throughout California for her 
role as attorney general.
 “ A lot of people in California like her. A lot of 
people in our district like her, and they trust her to 
pick the best candidate, ” Chaiken said.
Although his leadership experience stems mainly 
from his time in the military, Applegate’s platform 
extends beyond veterans’ affairs to creating new 
jobs and supporting the middle class. Kol Chaiken, 
a Thurgood Marshall College sophomore and 
canvasser for the Applegate campaign, spoke on how 
the colonel’s platform affected students at UCSD. 
“He’s very interested in making sure that [science, 
technology, engineering and math] majors are able to 
get all of the funding for their programs that they need, 
and he’s also interested in developing a better plan for 
financial aid, ” she told the Guardian. In addition, she 
added that his unique approach to utilizing military 
resources to develop renewable energy technology B y  TIA  IKEMOTO    STAFF WRITERCAMPUS
Cyber Archaelogy Project Opens at Geisel Library 
The kiosk allows students to explore cultural sites that have been destroyed by regional violence.See HARRIS , page 3
CAMPUS
By  N a d i a   L i n k
Contributing Writer
See ELECTION  , page 3 See CAVE  , page 3
BY   L a u r e n   H o l t
News Editor
 Hundreds of students marched across campus late Tuesday night in protest of Donald J. Trump winning the 2016 Presidential Election.
Photo by Patrick Lazo // UCSD Guardian
CAMPUS  
“2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
Researchers at the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography have 
discovered connections between 
global influenza outbreaks and 
humidity, publishing their findings 
in the Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences on Oct. 31.
The scientists analyzed roughly 
two decades’ worth of data on global 
flu epidemics in the World Health 
Organization’s Communicable 
Disease Global Atlas, a database 
of standardized statistics and 
information on infectious diseases at 
country, regional and international 
levels. The Global Atlas also includes 
information on environmental 
factors, socioeconomic status and 
demography. These outbreaks were 
more prevalent in dry climate areas 
where temperatures reach up to 75 
degrees Fahrenheit, and beyond 
this distinct temperature mark, 
outbreaks occur more frequently in 
tropical environments. 
The team utilized convergent 
cross mapping, a robust test that 
analyzes causality and does not 
require correlation. Causation refers 
to simple cause and effect, whereas 
correlation describes a positive or 
negative relationship between two 
variables. Thus, humidity, and less 
so temperature, were the main 
causes of influenza outbreaks, in 
spite of the apparent differences in outbreak patterns in temperate 
versus tropical environments. 
The viral envelope that encloses 
the flu virus may explain why 
temperature is such a big factor when 
studying outbreaks. The cellular 
structure of the envelope, similar 
to the cell membrane, weakens 
under swelling and dehydration, 
which occur under specific 
environmental circumstances. The 
envelope dehydrates in hot and dry 
temperatures but swells in cold and 
humid conditions —  a switch that 
occurs at the 75 degree Fahrenheit 
mark. Therefore, transmission of 
influenza is most favorable in cold, 
dry air or hot, humid air. If this 
reasoning is shown to be credible, 
then modifying humidity conditions 
in order to debilitate the influenza 
viral envelope may help remedy 
future outbreaks of the disease. 
Ethan Deyle, first author of the 
study, stated that people can modify 
humidity conditions indoors, but 
the impact would most likely only 
occur in environments in which 
people are in close contact with 
each other. 
“Unless you are someone that 
likes to turn their heat up to 80 
degrees Fahrenheit in the winter, the 
evidence suggests that humidifying 
your home would be the way to 
go if you wanted to make your 
home climate control choices based 
solely on flu transmission, ” Deyle 
told the UCSD Guardian. “I can’t say I’ d recommend that, though, 
since influenza transmission is 
generally understood to occur in 
public spaces like primary schools 
and hospitals. ”
Many research studies have 
identified a number of different 
factors that contribute to flu 
epidemics, including behavior, 
diversity across strains and human 
movement patterns. 
Deyle did not expect the 
relationship between outbreaks 
and the environment to be so clear, 
especially given the complexity of 
the disease. 
“I would say the most surprising 
thing is that we could see such clear 
patterns in the relationship between 
flu outbreaks and environment, 
despite not explicitly accounting 
for all these other processes, ” Deyle 
said. “That being said, one of the 
strengths of the methods we apply is 
that they can implicitly account for 
unmeasured or hidden variables. ” 
Muir College sophomore Lauren 
Brumage, a Saltman Quarterly staff 
writer, described the importance 
of understanding the link between 
climate change and infectious 
disease, as this research exemplifies. 
Not only do the rapidly changing 
environmental effects necessitate such 
research, individuals may be more 
prepared against current diseases and 
those that may emerge later. 
“Humanity has abused the 
environment through fossil fuel pollution and there are going to 
be consequences for that, ” Brumage 
told the Guardian. “Therefore, 
research such as that done by the 
SIO team is critical because we need 
to understand how climate is linked 
to infectious disease transmission. 
For instance, warming temperatures 
and increased humidity may shift 
the distribution of infectious 
diseases and foster the emergence 
of novel infectious diseases. If we 
can predict some of the effects of 
climate change, we can also try to 
prepare for those effects. ”
According to Deyle, the SIO team 
hoped to make an impact on public 
health education, and interventions 
regarding the effects of absolute 
humidity on flu transmission have 
been previously discussed.  
“Discussions [that precede ours] 
have generally focused on temperate 
latitudes, where cold, dry air appears 
to favor transmission, ” Deyle stated. 
“Our works will hopefully broaden 
this discussion to include possible 
public health intervention in 
tropical countries where hot, wet air 
appears to favor transmission. ” 
Future research by the team at 
SIO may include creating yearly 
quantitative forecasts of flu severity 
based on further investigation of 
their current results. Researchers Discover Causal Link Between Influenza and Humidity
The results of the study show that transmission of the flu virus is more likely to occur in cold, dry climates and hot, humid climates.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
BY  J u l i e  Y i p
Senior Staff Writer
Julie Yip  jlyip@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. This election.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Sports Associate Editor
Features Editor
Features Associate Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Miguel ShekerNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
WITH PERFORMANCES BY
ISAIAH RASHADANDREW LUCETENNYSON

TOWN SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUADAS CONCERTS & EVENTS PRESENTS▶ ELECTION,  from page 1 Barrett: Based on my time at UCSD precincts, voter turnout looked strong
noted that the amount of student 
interest this year was unexpected.
“We have had 300, 400 people for 
Obama’s elections where the youth 
vote was really energized, but I think 
this campus has changed, ” Kousser 
stated. “It has become more political. 
Groups like the [Student Organized 
Voter Access Committee], our                                                                                                                                   
organizing students, [the California                                                 
Public Interest Research Group] and 
the Guardian’s excellent political 
coverage are getting more students 
motivated, and I think this is becoming a more and more political 
campus. ”
SOVAC Executive Director Liam 
Barrett said that he hoped the high 
attendance numbers were indicative 
of strong UCSD voter turnout. 
“I would hope that everyone who 
turned out for this event voted, ” 
Barrett told the Guardian. “If that’s 
true, then that means we have 
had better turnout than we have 
had in some years. Just running 
around between the polling stations, 
turnout looked really good for UCSD’s precincts at least. ” 
Kousser added that the election 
is especially important for college 
students because “whether it’s free 
college tuition, what loan rates will 
be, what your job prospects will be, 
what kind of environment you will 
inherit, all the issues that are driving 
this presidential race mean more 
to an 18-year-old than they do to a 
42-year-old. ” 
Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Merced and UC Berkeley.  
Levy noted that there are still 
several technicalities left to sort out 
before the project is finished.
“The next step is to ensure that 
these CAVE kiosks are up and 
running in all the different UC 
campuses, ” Levy said. “Then, we 
want to test this idea of using the 
Pacific Research platform, which 
is this high-speed fiber optic 
network that connects all the UC campuses and all the major 
research institutions in California, 
and moves big data in real time 
between the different labs. That’s a 
huge computer science challenge. If 
we can make that happen next year 
and it’s connected to archaeology, 
then we’re golden. ”
Geisel Library is home to several 
one-of-a-kind displays, and now it 
contains the first interactive virtual 
reality experience of its kind. Levy would like those who use the kiosk 
to gain an understanding of the 
importance of preservation.
 “I hope that when [visitors and 
students] see this that they will 
gain an appreciation for the rich 
diversity of human culture on the 
planet, and that they’ll see that it’s 
important to preserve it, ” Levy said. ▶ CAVE,  from page 1Levy Hopes Visitors Learn to Appreciate Different Cultures Worldwide
Nadia link  nlink@ucsd.edu▶ HARRIS,  from page 1Obama Criticized Issa, Applegate’s Opponent
was “very important for people 
of our generation because we are 
the generation that’s facing climate 
change. ”
An endorsement from Harris 
was not enough for Applegate to 
secure a victory in the 49th District, 
which has been represented by Issa, 
a Republican, since 2001, to the 
dismay of Democrats who accuse 
him of corruption and inaction. 
President Obama spoke critically 
of Issa at a fundraising event in 
La Jolla on Oct. 23, asserting Issa’s 
“primary contribution to the U.S. 
Congress has been to obstruct 
and to waste taxpayer dollars on 
trumped up investigations that have 
led nowhere. ”
Despite criticism, Applegate’s 
rally, which was attended by 
dozens including news crews, 
construction workers, students and 
older residents, was not enough to 
“Flip the 49th. ” Applegate lost to 
Issa by two points, an especially 
disappointing result for Democrats, 
given they grew their ranks with an influx of 100,000 new voters over 
the past year.
Harris fared better in the 
election, winning a spot in the U.S. 
Senate with 66 percent of the vote. 
Applegate spoke highly of Harris at 
the rally. 
“Kamala [Harris] and I are going to 
stand up to extremism on both sides. 
We’re going to work for compromise, 
balance and, most importantly, we’ll 
both put country and our community 
ahead of party, ” he said. “That’s why 
I want to be an important ally to the 
next senator for the state of California, 
Kamala Harris. ”
Applegate served in the Marine 
Corps for 32 years, advising Marine 
commanders and completing a 
combat tour in Iraq. His background 
in national defense gave him an 
appreciation for strong leadership and 
a desire to improve upon the Veterans 
Administration, a government 
program that provides social benefits 
and healthcare to U.S. veterans.
tia  ikemoto  tikemoto@ucsd.edu
like   us  
               o n   f b  
@UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
To the dismayed,
– Guardian Editorial BoardOPINION
Get your feet on the ground before 
you start running. 
Take care of yourself;
Take care of others. Take time to 
adjust, to comprehend, to mourn. 
Take time to do anything necessary 
in order to follow this period of 
uncertainty with one of action: 
action that is continuous and 
relentless.
This was not the last opportunity 
to enact the changes that a Clinton 
–or even a Bernie–victory may 
have brought; these changes need 
not wait until 2018 or 2020.
Speak out and then speak out some 
more; reach across the aisle to 
foster an attempt at understanding, 
if nothing else. 
More than anything else, refrain 
from resignation. Transform anger 
to action, locally and promptly, 
when ready.
In the immediate future, 
take care.ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianRecent scholarship in higher 
education teaches us that college 
campuses are complex networks of 
diverse communities produced by 
different histories and micro-cultures. 
Each of them therefore requires 
specific tools for academic success. 
Across such complex networks, 
hierarchies of uneven institutional 
power will attempt to manage 
differences with generic and top-
down approaches to complicated 
collective issues.
The recent message from the 
office of the Vice-Chancellor of 
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion 
(VC-EDI) exemplifies the 
superficiality of the generic approach. 
It reduces the most pressing issues of 
hostile climate and group dynamics 
to banal invocations of individualism 
— ”Democracy is complex because 
no two people are the same” —  and 
interpersonal relations — ”It is 
possible to disagree without being 
disagreeable. ” These are tired 
bromides lacking any meaning in the 
real world.
Given the elaborate “diversity” 
infrastructure now in place at UCSD, 
ironically the result of past student 
activism, administrators charged 
to address these matters need to do 
better. Instead of protecting its brand 
by discouraging dissent, transparency, 
critical debate, and the empowerment 
of communities, VC-EDI needs to go 
back to school and read what scholars 
are saying about how to make 
transformative change on campuses 
in the 21st century.
Jorge Mariscal
Professor of Literature
Director, Dimensions of CultureLetter  to the editor
JorGe  MA riSCAL
hotlines
open resource centers(provided by Campus Community Centers)resource centersRAINN Sexual 
Assault Hotline 
National Suicide 
Prevention Lifeline
CAPS:
Trans Lifeline
Trevor Project:
APIMEDA Programs 
Black Resource Center
Cross-Cultural Center
Intertribal Resource Center
Raza Resource Centro
Women’s Center
Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender 
Resource Center1-800-656-HOPE
 
1-800-273-8255
858-534-3755
1-877-565-8860
866-488-7386A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKEND
Categorizing people into labeled parties has been a favorite past-time for humanity. Scroll 
back the timeline to the 19th century, and you’ll see this wave of scientific photo studies, in 
which enthusiasts attempt to determine exactly what it is that makes someone, someone. 
Y ou have Francis Galton, an expert in a slew of subjects, who laboriously layered photos of a 
certain kind of person (prone to sickness, committing crime, excelling in sports, etc.) to create 
composites attempting to typify people. 
To some extent, this is understandable. There is an overwhelming amount of information 
traffic, especially now, with pings and dings distracting you from something else that had been 
distracting you in the first place. Consolidating crowds of people into certain molds — though 
belittling — might act as a mental relief from this busy life-sphere. We’ve used these molds for 
centuries as a guideline to filter through an excessive amount of perceived information — even 
on ourselves. We scour the internet for accurate personality tests that map out where we stand 
in the social world. And as interesting as it is to delineate people into factions, at what point do 
these molds become destructive?
Susan Cain, self-proclaimed introvert, gave a compelling TED Talk on “The Power of 
Introverts. ” In a world that is partial to extroverts and favors their implied characteristics 
over those of the introverts, she voiced what many new articles are promoting as well: there is 
power in introverts. She advocated that “solitude is a crucial ingredient to creativity, ” and that 
group work could actually be detrimental. She even mentioned that fellow introvert and UCSD 
celebrity Theodor Geisel would work “in a lonely bell-tower office in the back of his house, ” yet 
was able to bring these colorful imaginative worlds to life on paper. 
So, she left her audience with three main points:
Diminish constant group work.
Spend time alone. 
Extroverts? Stay extroverted. Introverts? Dare to share. 
And her audience left her with a standing ovation. But before I leave you, there was one 
thing I was a little iffy about. People can agree with the decree that extroverts should work more 
with introverts and vice versa. This is in line with the idea that people are restrained in their 
characteristics: extroverts will be extroverts, and introverts will be introverts. 
However, I think the true winner here is finding that balance in ourselves. Maybe we 
shouldn’t be trying so hard to tie two polarizing personality types together, as one can drown 
out the other. Instead, maybe what takes the cake is learning the ropes for both extremes, 
knowing when to use which gear, and ultimately mastering the art of being the ambivert. 
Besides, only a Sith deals in absolutes. 
Let These Do the Talking
Written by: Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
In every friend group, there’s the parent who makes sure everyone is showering and 
eating regularly, the negotiator who can seemingly get everyone into *that* party, the tutor 
who is making sure the crew is passing those classes, and the “protector” who you know 
will be willing to go TP the house of someone who did ya dirty. But the humble hero who 
isn’t showcased quite enough is the one who is willing to sit at home with you when there 
is no chance you’re going to leave the couch. We all know who that person is in our lives 
(or maybe it’s you!) — the one who will get dressed up in some Cotton On joggers and 
call Domino’s as the two of you happily binge-watch “Grey’s” on what would otherwise be 
a wild night out. Need to appreciate that dependable and beautiful introvert in your life? 
Instead of buying them a round of wings out on the town, let these gems do the thanking. 
Sleep Mask
Nothing quite says “thank you for letting me nap the day away with you” like an eye 
mask to shut out any hint of light that could ruin a ceremonious moment, like sleep. As 
if shutting one’s eyes wasn’t enough to discreetly tell someone to skidaddle, an eye mask 
is the perfect way to show gratitude for your nap buddy while providing them with an 
explicit excuse to shut the world away, if only for a moment.
Netflix Password
An essential for the stay-at-home starter pack, sharing your Netflix password with this 
friend not only allows you to generously give thanks for all they do, but ensures that you 
will get insight into the best upcoming shows on Netflix and classics that you have to catch 
up on. Their contributions to your must-see list makes this a gift that keeps on giving. 
A Onesie
Why bother wearing a sweatshirt and sweatpants when you can have everything 
you want and more in a comfortable, although not always convenient, onesie? Bonus 
points if you buy yourself a matching onesie so those night-in celebrations are calm, 
cool and coordinated. 
Mindful Coloring Book
Who said those Friday night “occupy living room” moments had to be filled with some 
semblance of conversation? Sometimes the best company to keep is the one where there’s 
no pressure to speak at all. So grab some mandala prints, colored pencils, a hot cuppa and 
relish in the presence of one another as you color the night away. 
A Mug
A pretty standard gift for anyone, but a treasured possession to the one who consumes 
tea like a Brit who has been in America for too long. Basically a hug for the hands without 
the awkwardness of physical touch, a guarantee to be well-received. 
So while these are just a few mementos to cherish the more soft-spoken pal in your 
life, remember, as cheesy as this is, the best thing to offer is yourself. No words or actions 
needed here — a silent, “let’s sit here for hours and look at cat videos until the sun comes 
out” speaks louder than anything else could.  An Introspective Inspection
Written by Jocelyn Yang // Lifestyle Contributing Writer
Illustration by Irene Luu // UCSD Guardian
Illustration by Michi Sora // UCSD Guardian THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Gotta Bounce
Written by: Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
We know these moments all too well: The sweatpants are just a tad too comfortable, and oh no, the 
20-minute nap you planned just so happened to turn into a two-hour snooze fest, sending you into 
the delirious post-nap hangover state. Or maybe you’ve already dragged yourself out of the house for 
a (unfortunate) night out on the town, and the 80-year-old soul within is saying you need to go home 
and sleep. Not to worry, Lifestyle has a wide variety of excuses for you to use to get out of everything, 
from the dinner you were never really excited about to the club-hopping adventure you know you 
don’t need in your life right now. 
When the bed is calling your name more than that margarita at Taco Tuesday…
tUnfortunately, I can’t find my “actual” pants. 
tI just made plans with this cup of tea last week, and it’s too late for me to cancel.
tY ou mean to tell me Taco Tuesday happens every Tuesday?
tSorry, I got lost on my way trying to get out of this comforter cave I made.
tMy Netflix is acting up, it inconveniently keeps playing the next episode. It always gets really 
glitchy every time Gilmore Girls is on. 
When you’re out at a bar and can’t do another round…
tMy succulent only lets me water it on Fridays; I really need to go home and check to make sure 
it’s doing alright.
tDid I forget to mention? Saturday nights are meant for FaceTiming my dog back home. 
t*casually picks up phone* “Hello, Mom?” 
tThere’s a bunch of memes I need to get through before lecture on Monday. 
tA little more complex: Get the bartender in on a plan to give the last call two hours prior to 
closing time. 
When there’s no point in waking up for that bougie brunch…
tIs this place gluten-free, wheat-free, dairy-free and vegan?
tThe Barefoot Contessa is only on during this time of morning, and I really can’t miss it.
tI need to finish this box of Frosted Flakes before it expires, so sorry.
t*four hours later* I just woke up, did I miss it?
tI couldn’t find any Ubers that could pick me up this early on a Saturday morning.
tI got caught up petting a pug outside my apartment. 
And if all else fails, there is never any shame in just saying “no. ” No explanation needed — if you 
gotta go, you gotta go. Never feel that there is an obligation to have to be or to do everything, all at 
once — allow your best introverted self out whenever needed. 
Illustration by Sam Xu // UCSD Guardian8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Once upon a time, Tom 
Hanks’ leading-man glamour 
was enough to guarantee 
big payouts, and plastering his face 
onto posters for “The Da Vinci 
Code” birthed a multimillion-dollar 
franchise. With his easy charm and 
wit, Hanks steered the mystery-thriller 
to certain success. “Inferno” is to 
“The Da Vinci Code” as a turd is to 
chocolate — deceptively similar, unless you venture a good, long whiff. So, 
shall we take a bite?
Robert Langdon, our beleaguered 
hero and Harvard professor of 
symbology — why not just call him a 
semiotician, Dan? — has returned to 
Italy once again. Unfortunately, Rob 
finds himself in dire straits, injured 
and suffering from a mild case of 
retrograde amnesia — better known 
as plot-induced incompetence. He’s cared for by a wide-eyed Felicity Jones, 
masquerading as the ever-so-brilliant 
and youthful doctor Sienna Brooks. 
It’s hardly a surprise then that the 
situation must go tits-up by the end of 
the first act; an assassin (Ana Ularu) 
barges into the hospital, shoots an 
orderly, and galvanizes Rob and Sienna 
into making their inevitable escape. 
The two take refuge in Sienna’s 
trendy flat, soon discovering an image projector in Rob’s coat 
pocket that depicts Botticelli’s “Map 
of Hell. ” Hidden changes to the 
painting reveal a message from 
transhumanist billionaire Bertrand 
Zobrist (Ben Foster), recently 
deceased. His going-away gift? A 
deadly virus to cull the world’s 
population by over 90 percent, 
and thereby reduce the devastation 
humanity has wrought upon our environment. With a better 
screenwriter, or a better novel, such 
a premise might promise more — an 
intriguing debate on our prodigious 
population explosion and the most 
moral means to manage it, a clash 
of ethics and an exploration of 
underclass exploitation. 
Instead, “Inferno” has excellent 
flyover visuals of Florence, Venice 
and Istanbul, a great many chase 
scenes crammed into little over two 
hours of film and an uncomfortable 
repartee between two gifted actors 
forced to spew rubbish lines. Hanks 
and Jones only just manage to carry 
trite dialogue by the grace of their 
combined likability and skill. 
Everyone wears well-tailored suits 
and speaks in exotic languages, like 
Italian, Russian or even French. People 
exchange solemn glances and walk 
purposefully toward historical sites 
with very foreign names. Tellingly, 
“Inferno” often feels like a child’s 
conception of a grown-up story: 
secret messages, villains in tuxes, the 
dastardly “Consortium, ” visions of 
apocalypse, cackling mad scientists! 
By the time the climax rolls around, if 
the film had allowed itself a smidgen 
more humor, or wry self-awareness, it 
could fall into a proper camp parody 
of the genre. 
A mystery must be generous with 
its audience, granting it the necessary 
means to solve the puzzle it poses. 
“Inferno” runs on the fumes of tawdry 
scenarios, a thriller with no thrills 
and no means of predicting what will 
transpire. Well, isn’t that part of the 
appeal? It would be, if director Ron 
Howard didn’t slap on increasingly 
convoluted turns and revelations, 
overburdening his audience with ever 
more garish deceits. “Inferno” lacks the 
requisite fire, and digs its own grave 
with gusto.
—   Alicia  Lepler
 A&E Editorial AssistantWith the rise of social 
media, virtual reality and 
other novelties of the 
21st century, the human condition is 
inextricably linked with technology 
in profound new ways. “Black Mirror” 
creates strange, wonderful and 
unfathomably bleak futures through 
technology. But this is not a show 
about the future; it is about what 
we take for granted in the present. 
While not every episode is equally 
compelling, season three is made 
up of six unique cautionary tales 
about humanity’s interaction with 
technology, set in worlds that seem 
only a heartbeat away.
The season’s premiere episode, 
“Nosedive, ” presents a world in which 
social media merges with society and 
people’s self-worth is determined by 
an aggregate rating from everyone 
they meet. Lacie, who has a fairly 
high approval rating at around 4.2 stars out of 5, is obsessed with being 
well-received and goes to desperate 
measures to improve her score, 
constantly projecting over-the-top 
but fragile happiness. “Black Mirror” 
creates a society in which getting 
noticed and liked is worth everything; 
personality and thought are worth 
nothing. With the inauthenticity and 
approval-seeking nature of social 
media permeating an entire culture, 
just like in a world where “likes” 
and “retweets” are the only social 
currency, the only form of liberation 
is social isolation.
However, one episode, “San 
Junipero,” stands out from the 
rest. Set in the 1980s, the episode 
tells the story of how Y orkie, a shy 
and awkward girl, meets Kelly, her 
bodacious and upbeat opposite. On 
the weekends, they both visit the 
party town of San Junipero, and, 
although untimely for them both, Kelly and Yorkie begin to fall in 
love. Here, there is no dark satire or 
moral lesson to learn. Rather, “San 
Junipero” raises questions about 
love, and how humanity can be 
stretched thin through technology. 
The secret at the heart of “San 
Junipero” makes its conclusion both 
bleak and uplifting, with technology 
blurring the lines between what’s 
worth living for and what’s worth 
dying for. This subtle reveal only 
elevates and gives deeper emotional 
resonance to Kelly and Yorkie’s story 
of love and second chances. 
Although “San Junipero” is 
hopeful, other episodes of “Black 
Mirror” are nauseating. In “Shut Up 
And Dance, ” 19-year-old Kenny is the 
victim of a cyberattack after visiting 
the wrong website. After mysterious 
hackers record a very personal video 
of Kenny through his laptop camera, 
he is at their whim, willing to do anything to avoid being exposed. We 
all have something that we wouldn’t 
want revealed to the world, but 
Kenny’s extreme desperation, which 
elicits sympathy, also hints at the idea 
that his secret is unforgivable. Kenny 
is forced to complete increasingly odd 
and traumatizing tasks as the episode 
goes on, all with no clear motive. In 
the end, “Shut Up and Dance” is an 
endurance test with no epiphany or 
moment of moral redemption, similar 
to last season’s “White Bear, ” leaving 
viewers utterly shaken.
Not every episode reaches 
emotional or thought-provoking 
heights, however. In “Men Against 
Fire, ” the world is plagued by “roaches, ” 
genetically diseased zombie-like 
humans with whom the military is 
at war. In order to win this war, the 
military equips its soldiers with MASS, 
a neural implant used for strategic 
military operations. Unfortunately, while the episode features moments 
of suspense, the world it creates is 
shallow and not convincing enough 
to hide the mystery that it tries to 
create. In a far-too-obvious way, the 
episode illustrates that winning a 
war is easier when the enemy is as 
inhuman as possible. More intriguing 
than enlightening, “Men Against Fire” 
reveals its hand too early and is too 
predictable in its social commentary.
“Black Mirror, ” unlike most shows, 
is equal to the sum of its parts. Season 
three is a mixed bag, with its flaws 
resulting from a lack of ambition 
rather than an excess. Still, at its best, 
“Black Mirror” is a bone-chilling 
portrait of the collective unease about 
the future of technology and culture.
—   Naft ali  Burak ovsky
 A&E Associate EditorOnly by looking into an exaggerated, dark and satirical version of our world — a black mirror — can we see ourselves clearly.
TV  REVIEW
Black  mirror
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Creator   Charlie Brooker
Starring Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Bryce Dallas Howard
Runs   Full Season Available on Netflix b
Tom Hanks dodges mercs and government agents to save the world from certain doom. Again.
Directed by   Ron Howard
Starring  Tom Hanks, Felicity Jones, Omar Sy, Ben Foster
Release Date   August 28, 2016
Rating    PG-13dFILM  REVIEW
Inferno
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian“Good Girls Revolt” bills 
itself as a feminist 
drama with a premium 
cable budget following three “career 
girls” determined to become 
reporters in the male-dominated 
field in 1970. Unsurprisingly, 
the show isn’t as empowering as 
initially advertised. It focuses on the 
male fantasy of feminism, sexually 
liberated topless women screwing 
their bosses and coworkers, looking 
at their vulvas with compacts 
and losing their virginity to sexy 
strangers. It shouldn’t be too much 
to expect a show about women’s 
rights in the workplace to pass the 
Bechdel test every episode.
Set at the beginning of the 
Women’s Liberation movement, 
“Good Girls Revolt” follows three 
women at their workplace, News 
of the Week, when they decide to 
lodge a formal complaint against 
their employer due to unfair hiring 
and promotion practices. The show 
is based on Lynn Povich’s novel of 
the same name, which detailed a 
complaint she and other women 
at Newsweek filed against their 
employer due to similar unfair 
practices. 
While the formal complaint is 
billed as the overarching plot for the 
series, it only occupies a few scenes in a couple episodes. Most of the time is 
spent on the relationships the women 
have with male coworkers or talking 
about their relationships with said 
coworkers. While these conversations 
and scenes build relationship drama, 
they do little, in most cases, to really 
contribute to the series’ plot, as it 
doesn’t change the women’s decisions 
or affect the outcomes. 
It doesn’t help that many of the 
show’s male characters are one-
dimensional caricatures of modern 
thoughts about men in the ’60s and 
’70s. While sexism was rampant 
and blatant, everything the men 
do and say comes off as forced and 
is overwhelmingly predictable. The 
series’ reliance on 1960s stereotypes 
is why every twist and turn in the 
show can be foreshadowed episodes 
before it happens. 
The “good girls” experience 
the same stereotyping as well. Jane 
Hollander (Anna Camp) wishes to be a 
housewife but inevitably rebels against 
her upper-class parents. The same 
stereotyping goes for Cindy Reston’s 
(Erin Drake) dissatisfaction with her 
husband — of course the married one 
doesn’t have a supportive husband 
— so his subsequent and predictable 
emotional abuse doesn’t come as a 
shock. This pattern continues with 
Patti Robinson (Genevieve Angelson); her mind-bogglingly simple answers 
to complex questions about the 
counterculture sound like platitudes 
rather than convictions, which is in line 
with her hippie Barbie image. Toward 
the end of the season, Jane does take 
a greater role in the well-being of the 
women at the company. She even goes 
to great lengths to help keep the lawsuit 
together. Unfortunately, it is so late in 
the season it is washed over by Patti 
and Cindy’s relationship drama.
The series threw together too 
many elements in an attempt to 
reach a wider viewer pool rather 
than focusing on the statement 
it could be making. Despite its 
shortcomings, “Good Girls Revolt” 
shows how far we’ve come in the 
workplace and how much further 
we have to go, not just politically 
but also in the media’s portrayals 
of women. Maybe next season, the 
women’s relationships can evolve 
to focus on their own wants and 
choices rather than defining them 
through the men in the series. 
—   Rachel Novotny
Staff WriterAmazon’s “Good Girls Revolt” markets a fun and sexy feminism that isn’t feminist at all.
Creator   Dana Calvo
Starring  Genevieve Angelson, Anna Camp, Erin Drake
Runs   October 28, 2016 C-Good  girls  revol tTV  REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF AMAZON
SONGS  OF 
THE  WEEK
Look, you may not speak a lick of French, but this song is still one 
of the greatest love ballads ever sung. No doubt this is because it’s a duet 
between two real lovers, not the typical talent-for-hire — or “feat. ” — 
transaction. Their passion is heard through groans and sighs and a very 
real sexual energy that pervades their stressed utterances of affection. 
Not to mention, by the end of the song, the musically gifted lovers have 
almost certainly begun stripping each other down to their skivvies, 
taking only brief intervals between french kisses to lean over to the 
microphone and breathe so listeners know the song isn’t over. Need to 
set the mood? Forget Marvin Gaye. Light a candle and hit play on “Je 
T’aime Moi Non Plus. ”
—   Ma tthew Zamudio
 Staff WriterJE T ’AIME MOI NON PLUS 
B Y SERGE GAINSBOURG & JANE BIRKIN“Y ou are where you are/Being no one/Going nowhere, ” Joshua 
Hodges croons amid a strong chorus of celestial synths and keyboard 
jingles. STRFKR’s latest album “Being No One, Going Nowhere” 
reveals an electro-pop transformation of the band that is unlike the one 
seen at our 2015 Sun God Festival. STRFKR (pronounced star-fucker) 
first came about with indie singles filled with soft vocals and banjo 
strums; however, their latest track contains a divergent instrumental 
choice reminiscent of Future Island’s notably retro synth-pop beats. 
“Being No One” takes the listener on a relaxed musical journey 
with repeating distorted vocals that highlight the band’s evolution in 
instrumentation and use of minimalism. Nonetheless, this new track 
accentuates their musical journey that is noteworthy of its artistic 
sounds rather than vocals.
— Melissa  P alafox
 Staff WriterBEING NO ONE, GOING NOWHERE
B Y STRFKR10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
AUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto Detail 
Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR WASHES 
- AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 306503332 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires - GENERAL 
AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 307261269 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Sales Solutions Representative ($34k) - Insight  
- As a Sales Solutions Representative for 
Insight, you will enter a high-energy and tech 
savvy world. We are looking for someone who 
is self-motivated, a team player and will own 
the operational processes of their assigned 
accounts within their assigned market teams. 
If you’re client focused, a great communica -
tor and quick on your feet, then you could 
be the next Sales Solution Representative 
that we’re looking for! On a daily basis you 
will: Take ownership. You are responsible for 
managing accounts and identifying additional 
opportunities within your current and future 
clients with your team of Account Executives. 
Be challenged. You will be ready to provide 
support to the sales team during transactions 
with existing clients. Communicate. You will 
proactively assist clients by finding solutions 
that are right for them and by guiding them 
through the presales process. Build relation -
ships. You will work closely with your team of 
Account Executives to build quotes, navigate 
solutions, conduct client calls, etc. Multi-task: 
On a daily basis you will be quoting, ordering, 
managing your voice and email boxes, submit -
ting parts requests, and managing fulfillment. 
You will also be per forming pre-sales quali -
fication of license programs, product pric -
ing, parts research, configuration and product 
information all in a day’s work! $34K. Listing ID: 
307758108 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Sales & Marketing Development Program - 
Shea Homes - You can take a job or you can 
develop a career. Join the Trilogy Sales &amp; 
Marketing Development Program and get the 
experience you need to succeed in the excit -
ing and rewarding field of residential real 
estate!. You will enjoy on-the-job training and 
excellent work experience all while being part 
of a dynamic and skilled team whose mission 
is to deliver a superior product and outstand -
ing customer satisfaction to our Members. 
Candidates will begin their career as Assistant 
Sales Agents. Here, candidates learn the inner-workings of the Sales operation, setting the 
proper base for growth into a professional 
selling role. During this initial time, candidates 
will also complete Shea’s proprietary sales 
training process, Foundations. Once the train -
ing has been completed, the candidate will 
rotate into the first of their sales positions, the 
Jr. Sales Agent role. Here, candidates support 
experienced Sales Agents and Sr. Sales Agents 
in their service of Trilogy guests who are look -
ing to purchase a home. This experience will 
allow the candidate to practice and perfect 
their personal approach to sales, while dem -
onstrating total proficiency in Foundations. 
Finally, after various performance goals have 
been achieved, the candidate will be eligible 
to move into the Sales Agent role, where 
they will be fully responsible for selling new 
homes and delivery of world-class customer 
service to their Guests.  Mastery of this role 
will allow the candidate to move to the Sr. 
Sales Agent position. Competitive. Listing ID: 
306484397 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
NYC Cebador (sales & service rep) - $50k  - 
Guayaki - Cebadors (sales and service reps) for 
hire! Guayaki’s team of adventurous, engag -
ing and creative cebadors and cebadoras is 
expanding! We are looking for likeminded 
people to join us in building a great company. 
The lifestyle involves the cebador as the 
mobile brand ambassador who, as represen -
tative of the company, travels throughout 
his/her territory spreading the good word of 
Guayaki and yerba mate. If this looks like the 
life for you, please write to us.This is a dynamic 
role that demands immersion in the New York 
City market and its countless communities. 
Responsibilities include: Working closely with 
our distributor partners and their sales reps to 
build the brand in the NYC market. Thinking 
strategically to set and accomplish sales goals 
in the region. Strengthening relationships 
with 800+ accounts including natural food 
stores, grocery chains, Whole Foods, conve -nience stores. Building and maintaining part -
nerships with local universities and student 
ambassadors to foster the Yerba Mate move -
ment in the college sphere. Activating lifestyle 
pockets and connecting with taste making 
individuals via events and product donation 
$50k. Listing ID: 305665949 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
PETS
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 - 
Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the limitation 
of two pets, therefore, I have to rehome two 
little creamy kittens. One is a girl (Pic3)and the 
other is a boy(Pic 1). They are playful, intel -
ligent, and friendly. The boy has two levels of 
hair (dark and light creamy) and he likes to eat. 
The girl is sooo energetic, her eyes are bright! 
No ve. Listing ID: 310088197 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - Pug 
Puppies for sale, we accept all Major credit 
cards thru PayPal if you prefer to use your 
credit card, or we can accept cash, totally up 
to you, below we have written an individual 
Bio of each available puppy to help you get 
acquainted with each puppy. Meeka is a beau -
tiful Sable Silver Fawn, she is an absolute 
sweetheart, she is best buddies. Listing ID: 
310088070 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - $1300 
- Houston is a Chocolate & White Teddy Bear 
male.This Adorable boy has his current shots 
and vet checks and will weigh around 9-13lbs. 
Houston will follow you everywhere you go. 
He comes with a 1 Year Health Guarantee 
and you can find him in San Diego,CA. 619-
786-7362 or http://www.puppyavenue.com. 
Listing ID: 310087920 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
your vision , our missio n.Your on-campus, s tudent-run , 
custom screen prin ting s ervice 
complete with graphic desig n 
capabilities and m erchandise
available from:
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd. eduCONTACT US TODAY FOR A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE 10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER (minimum 36 shirts) Ć EXPIRES 12/31/16ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
Visit accb.ucsd.edu or on Facebook @AllCampusCommuterBoard for more information on 
commuter events and programs.
KSDT RADIO
tuning into
local creativity
Find us at the Original Student Center, listen to great stations on ksdt.org and follow us on 
Facebook @KSDTCollegeRadio.VETERAN’S DAYNovember 11SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
They sat back and soaked up the 
pressure for the majority of the 
match, making it hard to break 
their defense and score. Sophomore 
midfielder Christian Cordell gave 
the Tritons exactly what they needed 
when he substituted in during the 
first half: a player who could take on 
defenders one-on-one. Cordell sent 
multiple crosses into the box within 
his first few minutes of play. One of 
the crosses found senior forward 
Sam Palano for the header, only to 
be denied by the crossbar. 
By the start of the second half, 
the Tritons had control of the 
match with a vast majority of the 
possession, and the Coyotes had 
trouble connecting multiple passes 
as they fell to the Tritons’ pressure.  
When playing against a team 
that sits back, it is vital to get the 
ball moving as fast and efficiently 
as possible because allowing the 
defense to set up will make matters 
extremely difficult.  
The breakthrough for UCSD 
came off a San Bernardino attack. 
The Triton defense stopped the attack 
and get right into the counterattack, 
which left the Coyotes spread out 
and exposed at the back. Eventually 
the ball went to senior midfielder 
Justice Duerksen, who went one-on-one with the defender. Duerksen 
created space for a right-footed shot 
with ease, and proceeded to unleash 
a curling shot to the back of the net.  
UCSD only needed that single 
goal in the 54th minute to secure 
victory and move on to the final 
against Sonoma State.  
Final vs. Sonoma State
After going down 1–0 off a 
penalty shot, UCSD put in a goal in 
the second half and one in overtime 
to complete its 2–1 victory and earn 
the tournament championship. 
Again it was a physical battle 
against the opposing team for the 
Tritons, with a total of seven fouls 
called within the first 10 minutes of 
play. Although some early chances 
did not fall the Tritons’ way, Sonoma 
State did make the most of its big 
chance at the half. The Seawolves 
were awarded a penalty kick at the 
34th minute mark and immediately 
put it past the Triton goalkeeper.  
At the end of the half, senior 
midfielder Riley Harbour nearly 
equalized the score for UCSD with 
a header from close range; however, 
Sonoma State’s junior defender 
Eric Alvarado produced a goal-line 
clearance to retain the 1–0 lead. 
A moment of brilliance came in 
the 66th minute for the Tritons from 
a long throw-in. Junior forward Uly 
de la Cal produced the throw-in, and a defender deflected the ball up 
in the air into the path of freshman 
midfielder Jonathan Stoop. He 
attempted a overhead kick, which 
miraculously ended up in the back 
of the net to level the score.  
Sonoma State soaked up a whole 
bunch of pressure from the Tritons 
after the equalizer and held on 
to the 1–1 scoreline at the end of 
regular time. It would be a tall order 
to not only keep UCSD out of the 
goal in extra time but score as well. 
UCSD, with the momentum on 
its side, came out firing in the first                  
few minutes.
Within the first four minutes, 
the Tritons produced a lethal attack 
after clearing the ball out of their 
own area. They only needed a couple 
passes in order to place reforward 
Malek Bashti in a dangerous right 
flank position, where he intelligently 
picked out Palano. Upon receiving 
the pass, Palano took just one touch 
to control the ball and the next to 
produce the winner with a right-
footed shot.  
The 2–1 win means the Tritons 
will host an NCAA second-round 
match at Triton Stadium on Sunday, 
Nov. 13 at 12 p.m.  Golden Eagles defeated second-seeded 
Sonoma State because of a penalty kick 
after 110 minutes of scoreless action. 
UCSD shut out Cal State LA, 2–0, at 
home in a regular season matchup       
on Oct. 14. 
The Tritons scored two early 
goals to beat Cal State LA in the 2016 
CCAA Tournament final on Sunday at         
W arrior Stadium. 
The Tritons had already won the 
CCAA regular season title, earned 
the tournament title and raised their 
record to an impressive 18–2 and are 
on a 15-game winning streak. UCSD 
defended its title from 2015 and have 
10 tourney titles. The tournament win 
also gives it an automatic bid in the 
2016 NCAA Championship.
UCSD didn’t wait long before scor -
ing, unlike their last match, as the first 
strike occurred in the sixth minute. 
Junior left back Aimee Ellis passed a 
deep ball from left to right to McNutt. 
Redshirt senior midfielder Kiera Boc -
chino attacked the left post and fired a 
volley into an empty net for her eighth 
goal of 2016. 
Bocchino, who was dealing with 
food poisoning, scored what would be 
the game-winner. A little later in the 
first half, junior midfielder Elisa Mar -
tinez gave the Tritons a two-goal lead after a deflection off of a defender. 
Gonzalez finished with a save to 
earn a league-best 15th shutout. The 
other goalkeeper, sophomore Adri -
ana Maldonado, had five saves in the 
match. In total UCSD had a 16–6      
shot advantage. 
Berry, the senior co-captain, was 
named the CCAA Tournament Most 
V aluable Player and Reilly earned 
Most Valuable Offensive Player 
honors. Gonzalez, Benedetto and                                            
redshirt freshman midfielder Nat -
alie Saddic were named to the                                                                        
All-Tournament Team.
No. 6 seeded Cal State LA finished 
its season with a 7–9–4 record. Berry 
had an injury through the weekend, 
but was a key part for UCSD pitching 
two shutouts in the CCAA Tourna -
ment and assisted the game winner by 
Reilly against Sonoma State. These ac -
complishments allowed her to win Best 
Player of the Tournament.
The Tritons will now wait for the 
official announcement for the 2016 
NCAA Championship, which fields 48 
teams. A selection show will air live on 
NCAA.com at 3 p.m. In all likelihood, 
UCSD will host a portion of the NCAA 
West Regional next week. Check UCS -
Dtritons.com for more details. 
Berry named CCAA T ournament MVP , 
Reilly Most Valuable Offensive Player
▶W. SOCCER,  from page 12Tritons Will Host NCAA Second-Round Match on Sunday
▶ M. SOCCER,  from page 12
Dev jain  dajain@ucsd,eduDaniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd,edu
34 10MEN'S SOCCER (IN  CCAA) WOMEN'S SOCCER (IN  CCAA)
No. 1 in goals scored Tied No. 1 in goals against
54 7No. 1 in goals against No. 1 in goals scoredSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA  GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Game 1UCSD stunned Cal State Stanislaus 1–0 in the semifinal matchup of 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament on Fri -
day, Nov. 4. Sophomore forward Mary Reilly struck a goal with less 
than two minutes left to give the Tritons the 1–0 lead at W arrior Stadium. On 
Oct. 21, UCSD defeated Cal State Stanislaus in a previous game this season 
3–0. Stanislaus fared much better in the rematch. However, the Tritons have 
beaten the W arriors four straight times in a row. 
The clock was running out of time, and overtime seemed on the horizon 
before Reilly saved top-seeded UCSD.
Co-captain and senior center back Meghan Berry cleared the ball to ju -
nior winger Jordyn McNutt. She then passed to senior midfielder Jamie Bene -
detto, who headed the ball into the penalty area where Reilly was in perfect 
position to tap in her 11th goal in the 89th minute. Benedetto and McNutt 
were awarded with their second and 10th assists, respectively. 
Freshman midfielder Roni Merrill came off the bench and had two left-
footed shots in the first period, one that was caught by sophomore goalie Hal -
ey Crook and another that was too high. In the 57th minute, Reilly and junior 
forward Katie O’Laughlin almost came together for a goal, but O’Laughlin’s 
attempt went wide left.
Redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez only needed one save to earn a 
league-leading 14th clean sheet. On the other side, Crook stopped four shots. 
The Tritons held a 14–4 shot advantage, with an 8–1 lead in the second half. 
Reilly had more shots than Cal State Stanislaus by herself, 6–4.
Game 2
The Tritons, the previous CCAA Tournament winners, moved on to the 
school’s 10th final against No. 6 seed Cal State Los Angeles on Sunday. The 
See W. SOCCER , page 11
The UCSD men’s soccer team traveled to Turlock, California last 
week for the California Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament 
and did not disappoint one bit. The team was crowned champion 
on Sunday after a 2–1 comeback win over Sonoma State. Prior to the finals 
match, the Tritons encountered Cal State San Bernardino in the semi-final, 
redeeming themselves with a 1–0 victory from their defeat by the same 
team only two short weeks ago.  With the tournament victory, the Tritons 
keep their season alive and move on to the NCAA Tournament, where they 
earned a first-round bye and will host the second-round match on Sunday 
afternoon against the winner of Dixie State and Western Washington.  
Semifinal vs. Cal State San Bernardino 
UCSD came up against a familiar foe last Friday, Cal State San 
Bernardino, and took care of business with a 1–0 victory.  While the game 
was perhaps a bit tighter than the team would have wanted it to be, the 
result saw the team through to the final.
Although only one goal was scored in the match, the intensity of a 
win-or-go-home scenario definitely was seen on the pitch; the dynamic 
between the two teams was aggressive. At times the referee gave some 
questionable calls, which in many ways threw the intensity and rhythm off, 
but the Tritons overcame it to win the game.  
Goal-scoring opportunities were at a premium; the few available made 
the difference between winning and going home. Cal State San Bernardino 
had an early chance to score within the first 10 minutes of play, but redshirt 
senior goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh positioned himself brilliantly and 
came up with a big save early in the match.  
The Tritons found success on the flanks throughout the match; 
however, it became difficult because of the Coyotes’ defensive strategy. 
See M. SOCCER , page 11by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff WriterTritons Advance to 
NCAA Tournament
Tritons extend win streak to 15 games during CCAA Tournament.
by Dev Jain // Senior Staff WriterConference Champs
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Water Polo
M. Basketball
W. Basketball11/11
11/11
11/12
11/12
11/127:30 PM
5:30 PM
10 AM
7:30 PM
5:30 PMVS Dixie State
AT San Marcos Classic
VS Sunset San Diego
VS Azusa Pacific
AT San Marcos Classic