VOLUME 50, ISSUE 9   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 20, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BANG FOR YOUR 
BUCK
TO OUR COMMUTING 
COMMUNITY, WITH LOVE: 
THE GUARDIAN HAS 
TRANSPORTATION, DINING AND 
NAPPING TIPS AND TRICKS 
FOR OUR OFF CAMPUS TRITON 
COMMUNITY
TRANSPORT A TION
W ARRIORS  GROUNDS CARCITY  OF  S  SPOTS
Training  a t  rimac  arenaOPINION, P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
A.S. COUNCIL SHOULD 
BE RAISING SOME OF 
THE FUNDS FOR THEIR 
“PERSONAL EXPENSES” 
INSTEAD OF DIGGING INTO 
THE BUDGET JUST BECAUSE 
IT IS BIG ENOUGH TO 
SATISFY THEIR NEEDS.”
- Guardian Editorial Board
COLUMN TITLE HERE
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCITECH  ......................... 2
A.S. BUDGET  .................. 4
WEEKEND  ....................... 6
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
HALL OF FAME  .............. 12LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  8
ILLUSTRATION BY APRIL GAU
THURSDAY
H 95 L 63FRIDAY
H 93 L 63
SATURDAY
H 88 L 63SUNDAY 
H 84 L 63
The new Teaching + Learning 
Commons officially opened on 
Monday morning at a ribbon cutting 
ceremony attended by Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla, University Librarian 
Brian Schoettlaender and several 
other university administrators. 
Located on the lower floor in the 
northwest corner of Geisel Library, 
the Teaching + Learning Commons 
provides students and faculty with 
resources to become more engaged in 
their respective roles.
Among the services provided by 
the Teaching + Learning Commons 
are syllabus guidance and faculty 
development for educators, writing 
consultations for graduate students, 
course-specific active learning 
support for teaching assistants, 
tutoring and supplemental instruction 
for undergraduate students and many other programs for each group. The 
goals of the facility include gathering 
data to examine the state of teaching 
and learning at UCSD and assisting 
educators in becoming more effective.
During his remarks at the ribbon 
cutting ceremony, Chancellor 
Khosla noted that the university has 
historically been concerned with 
research, its reputation and recruiting 
great faculty, and asserted that it 
should have focused on improving 
undergraduate resources as well.
“Going forward, [UCSD] cannot 
just be focused on masters and PhDs 
and research because as time goes 
on…[undergraduates] are the young 
men and women who are going to 
make a big impact out there, and they 
have to own a piece of us, ” Khosla said
However, Khosla declared, the 
Teaching + Learning Commons is 
a demonstration of the university’s 
intention to increase its dedication     
to undergraduates. “They have to own us 
emotionally...intellectually... with 
their resources, so this Teaching and 
Learning Commons is just one step 
at stepping up our commitment to 
undergraduate education, stepping up 
our commitment to undergraduates 
in general and making sure that 
undergraduate education is at least 
on par [with], if not [better than] 
… graduate education and research, ” 
Khosla stated.
Many at the ceremony attributed 
the Teaching + Learning Commons 
to Executive Vice Chancellor Suresh 
Subramani, who explained to the 
Guardian that the idea to create the 
Commons stemmed from his desire 
to expand the reach of the Center 
for Teaching Development to all      
campus educators.
“We had a Center for 
Teaching Development, and that University Seeks 
to Eliminate 
Carbon 
EmissionsRESEARCH
The Deep Decarbonization 
Initiative will offer courses and 
seminars to spread awareness 
about sustainable practices.
UCSD launched the 
interdisciplinary, campus-wide Deep 
Decarbonization Initiative in an 
effort to eliminate carbon emissions, 
announced UC San Diego News Center 
on Oct. 13. The movement emphasizes 
an innovative and collaborative 
approach by incorporating science, 
technology, social organization and 
politics to generate economically 
feasible ideas. The goal is simplified 
by the campaign’s tagline, “Getting 
to zero carbon emissions in the               
real world. ”
Deep decarbonization refers to the 
process of moving to a global energy 
economy that emits almost no carbon 
into the atmosphere, according to UC 
San Diego News Center. The current 
global energy economy relies on the 
combustion of fossil fuels that eject 
carbon dioxide, which contributes to 
climate change. Scientists have noted 
a correlation between accumulation 
of carbon dioxide and an increase in 
global temperatures. 
George Tynan, associate dean at 
the Jacobs School of Engineering and 
professor of mechanical and aerospace 
engineering, noted the difficulty of 
reducing carbon levels that a growing 
fossil fuel-reliant population produces.
“There’s clearly a recognition that 
the world economy needs to move 
toward low-carbon and zero-carbon 
energy sources, ” Tynan told UC San 
Diego News Center. “I don’t think 
there’s any debate about that. … we 
have to meet the demands of humanity 
— to meet the energy demands of 9 or 
10 billion human beings — and we 
have to do so in a way that doesn’t emit 
carbon at a rate that’s unacceptable. ”
As part of the initiative, UCSD 
offers new grants and courses to 
further research and awareness of 
topics such as nuclear power, fusion 
energy and the financial costs of a 
greener world, according to The San 
Diego Union-Tribune. Additionally, 
research seminars, which began on 
Sept. 28, are open to faculty members, 
other scholars and advanced students. 
Some affiliated research centers 
include the Center for Aerosol Impacts 
on Climate and the Environment, 
Laboratory on International Law 
and Regulation, Solar Resource 
Assessment & Forecasting Laboratory 
and the Solar Integration Laboratory. 
School of Global Policy and Strategy 
professor David G. Victor described the 
importance of diverse organizations Students and Service Workers 
Protest UC Employee  Layoffs
Approximately 40 UCSD students and service 
workers marched in protest to the Chancellor’s 
complex this past Tuesday against the recently 
announced layoffs at the UC Irvine Medical Center. UC 
Irvine will be laying off 175 workers, 68 of whom are 
members of the American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees.  
Esteban Salcedo, service representative and organizer 
from the local 3299 branch of AFSCME and 2012 UCSD 
alumnus, stated to the UCSD Guardian said they held the 
protest at 9:00 a.m. because this was when most workers 
would be available to protest. UC Irvine held a whole-day 
event from 11:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Salcedo also said that the UC Irvine Medical Center 
made approximately $40 million in profits last year 
but that, in spite of this, workers are still being laid off. 
In addition to protesting the layoffs at UC Irvine, the 
students marched to speak out against the layoffs taking place at UCSD.  In regard to why the UCSD workers were 
laid off, Salcedo said administrators told AFSCME it was 
because of budget issues. 
“T oday was a statewide day of action; all UC campuses 
and medical centers attempted delegation to speak with 
the chancellor or CEO, ” Salcedo said. “Workers and 
students came together to deliver the message that we’re 
sticking with our fellow co-workers at UC Irvine who 
were recently laid off, and also to say we’re not going take 
layoffs here at UCSD, because they just announced that 
four workers are going to be laid off from the bookstore. 
Their final day will be December 9th. It’s just letting them 
know that students and workers are together against 
layoffs. ”
Protesters, however, were not allowed to enter and 
speak with administrators. Students who attended 
the protest, including the Executive Director of the 
Student Organized Voter Access Committee Liam B y Tina  butoiu    Senior Staff Writer  CAMPUS
Teaching + Learning Commons Officially Opens
Students and faculty attended the ribbon cutting ceremony held on the first floor of Geisel library.See PROTEST , page 3
GEISEL
By  L a u r e n   h o l t
News Editor
See INITIATIVE , page 3 See COMMONS , page 3
”BY   L i sa  C h i k
SENIOR staff Writer
 EMCEE Dale Kelly Bankhead addressed students and journalists at a news conference calling on Darrel Issa (R-49) to 
withdraw his endorsement of Donald Trump. Photo by Christian Duarte//UCSD Guardian
UC SYSTEM2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Happy Birthday former ex News Editor Maria.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerResearchers Selectively Kill Tumor Cells Using Brain Cancer Cells
Scientists identify liver X receptor agonist which penetrates brain without interfering with normal cells to target gliobastorma cells.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Researchers at UCSD, UCSD 
School of Medicine, Ludwig Institute 
for Cancer Research and Scripps 
Research Institute, along with 
researchers in Los Angeles and Japan, 
have exploited the mechanism behind 
brain cancer cells to selectively kill 
tumor cells, cause tumor regression 
and prolong survival in mouse 
models. The focus of the research was 
on glioblastoma, or GBMs, the most 
common and most aggressive form of 
cancer. The findings were published 
in the online research journal Cancer 
Cell on Oct. 13.
Senior Author Paul S. Mischel, 
member of the Ludwig Institute 
for Cancer Research and professor 
of pathology at the UCSD School 
of Medicine, explained that GBMs 
drain cholesterol, which is vital for 
cell structure and function, from 
neighboring astrocytes and process it in a different fashion.
“The tumor cells have developed 
a mechanism and effectively acts 
like a parasite for [cells] that do 
produce cholesterol … [because] it’s 
abundant in the brain … and because 
[cholesterol is very energy expensive] 
to make, ” Mischel told the UCSD 
Guardian. “What we found is that 
tumor cells ... effectively do not have 
an off switch to keep gobbling up 
cholesterol and that actually creates      
a vulnerability. ”
The brain synthesizes 20 percent 
of the cholesterol in the human body 
from simpler ingredients like glucose, 
because cholesterol and many 
molecules can’t cross the blood-brain 
barrier that protects the brain.
When cells have enough 
cholesterol, they stop synthesizing 
it and turn that cholesterol into 
oxysterols, molecules that activate 
the liver X receptor to prevent it 
from taking in more cholesterol and 
start pumping it out. GBMs suppress oxysterol production so LXR is                                       
never activated to suspend                                        
cholesterol production.
The scientists identified an LXR 
agonist, LXR-623, that is able to 
penetrate the blood-brain barrier 
and kill GBM cells in a cholesterol-
dependent manner without affecting 
normal cells.
Most drugs are systemic toxicant 
in that they aren’t localized and often 
spread throughout cells and organs 
in the body. Mischel noted that LXR-
623, unlike other drugs, actually 
concentrates in the brain.
“Most of the time, even if you 
treat a target in the brain, you end up 
getting so little of that drug across to 
get a therapeutic dose you effectively 
poison the rest of the body, ” Mischel 
said. “In this situation, where the drug 
concentrates in the brain where the 
tumor is, it is quite beneficial because 
you end up having a therapeutic 
effect that’s far less systemic toxicant. ”
Cancers of the brain can be classified into those that arrive from 
the constituent cells of the brain and 
those that metastasize from the brain. 
GBM is the prior, in which the tumor 
originates from the brain rather than 
spreading from somewhere else, but 
LXR-623 has worked against both 
types of tumors.
Although LXR-623 use in the 
GBM strategy could be adopted into 
clinical trials, Mischel stated that it 
will be a difficult process                          to 
implement.
“There is a very difficult journey 
that any scientific discovery has to 
make [before becoming] medicine 
for a patient, ” Mischel said. “There 
are many things that come into that, 
like preparing the drug, working with 
a pharmaceutical company to get the 
drug, design of the clinical trial — all 
of these things take time and effort 
and they’re complicated. ”
UCSDGUARDIAN. ORGCHEck  Us  out
@BY  m i n g - r a y  L i a o
Senior staff writer
ming-ra y liao  m4liao@ucsd.edustarted off as a TA training place and 
workshop… out of that, through the 
CAPE reports, when some faculty 
had some deficiency in teaching or 
perceived deficiency in teaching, 
they would get sent to the Center for 
Teaching Development, almost like 
remedial school, ” Subramani stated. 
“This really ignored the fact that even 
as teachers we are learning from our 
students, and we give out distinguished 
teaching awards, so I felt why can’t we 
take the best teachers and let them 
show other faculty what outstanding 
teaching looks like, because none of us 
were really taught how to teach. ” 
Schottlaender told the Guardian 
that Subramani initially approached 
him about placing the Commons 
on the eighth floor. However, those 
heading the project eventually 
decided that the bottom floor 
contained a much better space, as it is 
larger with a more continuous floor 
plan for the facility.
Although the Teaching + Learning 
Commons only recently opened its 
doors, those involved are already 
forming ideas for how to expand the 
Commons in the future.
Schottlaender predicted that 
due to the numerous similarities 
in programs and spaces offered by 
Geisel Library and the Teaching + 
Learning Commons, the two facilities 
may work together in the future to 
combine their resources.“Both spaces that we have [...] 
are similar. They have classroom 
space, and we have classroom space. 
Services that we have are similar. 
They have peer advisors. We have 
peer advisors, ” Schottlaender said. 
“I anticipate, once they get settled in 
and sort of figure out what they’re 
doing in the next year or so, that we 
will begin to use each other’s spaces 
to deliver similar kinds of services. ” 
Getting the Teaching + Learning 
Commons off the ground will not 
be without its difficulties, Faculty 
Director Gabriele Wienhausen 
explained. Several steps that are part 
of the opening process still need to 
be finished. 
“This is brand new, and that 
means you have to start hiring 
people; you have to develop 
programs; you have to find spaces 
for the programs, so each step is 
a challenge, ” Wienhausen told the 
Guardian. “Building a team is a 
challenge, but then [there is] also 
expanding and finding a space 
for offering all the great stuff we          
are doing. ” 
Despite these current obstacles, 
Wienhausen’s vision of a successful 
Teaching + Learning Commons is 
a facility in which “all students can 
be successful and all faculty feel that 
they are the best teachers that they 
can be. ”Barrett, described the reaction of 
administrators as being reflective of a 
systemwide attitude.
“The fact that they locked the door 
when we showed up is the epitome 
of the UC’s treatment of students 
and the workers that work for them, ” 
Barrett told the UCSD Guardian. “I 
think [protesting] is more effective 
than doing nothing and I think that 
taking issues to the people who are 
responsible for them is very important 
for getting things done. I think that 
reacting in the way that they did is 
not necessarily conducive to getting 
problems solved ... locking doors 
and things like that does not create 
conversation; it exacerbates the 
problem, and by the administration 
doing that, they’re showing very little 
interest in getting problems solved. ”
Associated Vice President of 
External Affairs Lauren Roberts 
described how her office will work 
with AFSCME to ensure workers’ 
needs are met.“For the first time ever in San 
Diego’s history, students were standing 
in solidarity with workers rather 
than the other way around, ” Roberts 
said. “Traditionally, workers help us 
when a tuition hike is proposed and 
they’re always down for our causes, 
but we always leave them high and dry 
when layoffs happen...all we can do is 
organize students around [AFSCME] 
because ultimately they know what 
the union needs and what demands 
they’re going to make. ”
Additionally, Salcedo described 
how the University’s contract with 
service workers expires in June 2017, 
so AFSCME and students will be 
focusing on negotiating a new contract 
in the upcoming months. 
“Now we’re gearing up to bargain 
a new contract with the UC and we’re 
seeing they want to cut cost where 
they can, ” Salcedo said. “This is a firm 
instance of what UC’s priorities are. 
We’re already seeing it ... we haven’t 
even started bargaining yet and they 
want to get rid of workers. ”
Barrett said legislative measures could be an effective means of resolving 
labor disputes across the University.
“Holding the UC accountable to 
stronger labor standards and providing 
more funding for the UCs in general 
would work to solve these problems, 
and also keeping the UCs more 
accountable for the money that they 
do have, ” Barrett said. “The strongest 
[action] would be an amendment to 
the California constitution that puts 
the Regents more under the scope 
of the state, but anything, even just 
pressuring the Regents at a political 
level, is an effective way of getting 
things done. ”
Morales also described to the 
UCSD Guardian how she is hoping 
to organize more workers’ events on 
campus and establish a worker-student 
base. Furthermore, she discussed how 
prior to Tuesday’s protest, a student 
labor conference was held on campus, 
but that the turnout for UCSD students 
was low.
in contributing to the overarching 
objective of implementing effective 
decarbonization systems.
“UC San Diego has tremendous 
technical depth on all aspects of deep 
decarbonization changes in energy 
systems, and we also have phenomenal 
social sciences, economics, political 
science … that help us understand 
how society is organized and how 
society changes, ” Victor said in a promotional video. “The initiative’s 
larger goals are to make progress 
on actual decarbonization, to help 
governments and experts understand 
what really works. ”
The Deep Decarbonization 
Initiative is already in the midst of 
making notable advancements. 
According to UC San Diego News 
Center, researchers at the Center for 
Energy Research are developing fuel 
cells, which are devices that produce 
energy through chemical reactions 
that result in less pollution than burning coal or gasoline. The Food & 
Fuel for the 21st Century research unit 
is developing sustainable solutions 
for renewable-energy production 
involving algae. Analysts at Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography are 
looking at how collected data 
on greenhouse gases can verify 
international commitments to cut 
down on emissions.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
BEAR GARDEN
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
OCTOBER 21, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUADFor more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu 
or (858) 534-0477.21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.▶ PROTE ST, from page 1AFSCME Will Be Negotiating New Contract with the University  
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu▶ COMMONS , from page 1Teaching + Lear ning Commons May Expand
Tina Butoiu   cbutoiu@ucsd.edu
Victor: Research Will Improve Our Understanding of  Decarbonization 
▶ INITIATIVE,  from page 1
LISA  CHIK   LCHIK@ucsd.eduLIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Tina Butoiu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR
Jacky To
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Maria Sebas
NEWS EDITOR
Lauren Holt
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOR
Sam Velasquez
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Nathan Walker
OPINION EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Dev Jain
SPORTS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. As any student who commutes 
to campus or merely walks through 
a parking lot will notice, UCSD’s 
parking and transportation system is 
at maximum capacity. Last week, the 
UCSD Guardian reported that right 
before the beginning of the academic 
year, UCSD Transportation Services 
replaced 32 “S” spots with “B” spots 
in the Revelle College parking lot — a 
trend that students have been noticing 
around campus since last year. In the 
coming months, students are set to 
lose 900 additional parking spaces 
with the closure of Gilman Parking 
Structure in order to accommodate 
the construction of the UCSD Blue 
Line Trolley. 
While Transportation Services has 
in some cases added new “S” spots 
to compensate for those that they 
replaced with “B” spots, these spots 
are often located in relatively obscure 
locations, such as along Expedition 
Way near the Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography or in a parking lot 
across from the Salk Institute. This 
comes at a time when “ A ” spots are 
being added, despite the average 
availability of “ A ” spots per garage 
outnumbering that of “S” spots. On 
top of this, students who commute to 
campus by car must resort to extreme 
measures to find parking spaces, 
such as arriving hours before their 
first class or purchasing “B” passes 
from graduate students. Alternatively, 
some students park their cars in time-
limited spots off campus like La Jolla 
Shores Drive and return two hours 
later to resume the search for parking. 
With such a severe lack of on-campus 
parking for undergraduates, 
one would expect the campus 
administration to have a concrete 
policy in place to resolve this issue. 
The most that the administration 
is willing to do, however, is simply 
“encourage” staff and faculty to use public transportation instead and 
provide them with rides in SmartCars 
around campus. 
Long forgotten by many is the 
university’s once-cherished Bus Zone 
program, which provided bus passes 
to UCSD students and staff free of 
charge for 45 years. The university 
used the money from parking passes, 
citations and visitor tickets to finance 
annual bus passes for faculty and staff, 
prompting many university employees 
to use public transportation rather 
than  commuting to campus by 
car. In November 2014, however, 
Chancellor Khosla allowed for the 
cancellation of the Bus Zone program 
in a bid to save money. By bringing 
back the Bus Zone program, many 
university workers would return to 
riding public transportation as they 
had before the program’s end. This 
would, in turn, decrease demand for 
“ A ” and “B” parking permits, which 
would allow the parking office to 
increase the number of “S” spots, or 
at the very least return those that have 
been painted over to their original designations. 
Students spend hundreds of 
dollars on parking permits every 
academic year, in addition to the 
cost of tuition and countless other 
fees required to attend UCSD, and 
the fact that many are not able to 
access the spaces that they pay for is 
exasperating. The university owes it to 
its students to provide the spaces that 
they pay for.
By reimplementing the Bus 
Zone program, additionally, the 
university would be putting its money 
where its mouth is when it comes 
to encouraging staff and faculty to 
ride public transportation to free up 
spaces. All in all, it would serve as 
an extremely intelligent decision by 
helping UCSD administration to meet 
the environmental goals it claims to 
surpass. As it stands, there are no 
incentives for university employees 
to use MTS. If anything, the current 
state of UCSD transportation is such 
that workers are unlikely to subject 
themselves to riding buses and 
shuttles without some sort of financial gain. The shuttle routes change 
regularly, bus stops have lines of 40 or 
more students and shuttles are being 
canceled by Transportation Services. 
That being said, Transportation 
Services needs to also focus on 
improving the shuttles and buses, 
no matter what happens with the 
Bus Zone program. UCSD’s public 
transportation does nothing to help 
with the parking situation because it 
is becoming so inconvenient that it is 
no longer a better option than driving 
around searching for parking. By 
fixing the issues with the shuttles and 
buses, it is possible that more students 
and employees will be compelled to 
leave their cars at home. The current 
plan to reduce parking congestion 
is impractical and appears to be a 
patchwork rather than a real solution. 
If university administration cares 
about actually providing parking for 
students by convincing faculty and 
staff to use public transit, they should 
should restore the Bus Zone program 
program so parking on campus 
becomes a less attractive option for 
commuters.
While it would cost the university 
a significant amount of money to 
fund the Bus Zone program, UCSD 
Parking and Transportation was able 
to finance the yearly bus passes for 45 
years prior. With the revenue from 
parking passes, citations and visitor 
tickets, the office could once again 
pay for the program. The goal of the 
university should not be to collect 
as much money as possible from the 
various fees students pay. Instead, the 
university should strive to provide 
good services that improve the 
education and lives of all who attend. 
In reinstating the Bus Zone program, 
the parking officials would do just 
that, reducing the demand for “ A ” 
and “B” parking spaces and providing 
more “S” spots.By implementing the Bus 
Zone program, additionally, 
the university would be putting 
its money where its mouth is 
when it comes to encouraging 
staff and faculty to ride public 
transportation to free up 
spaces, making it an extremely 
intelligent decision by helping 
UCSD administration meeting 
environmental goals it claims 
to meet.
“
“
“
“
Yesterday 9:28 PM
Today 4:18 PM
Details
Messages (300)Mr. “Shuttle”
Attention Tritons,
Please be advised that there will be 
no clockwise loop tonight, please 
redirect to counter.
Thanks,
Shuttles
Who are u with? is it “s spot” 
girl? I haven’t seen either of u 
in weeks. I should be able 2 
rely on u but i feel that u aren’t 
committed. Also, that was a 
comma splice.Conversions of  “S” spots to “B” spots, 
frequent relocations of  shuttles and 
cancellations of  the same shuttles have 
made transportation a trying task in itself. 
In order to change this, the university must 
take proactice steps to incentivize public 
transportation and improve student parking.Transporting 
UCSD to a 
Better FutureOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianEach year, Associated Students 
faces the difficult task of dividing 
a budget a several millions of 
dollars, all of which the student 
body procures through the Student 
Activity Fee. Despite a clean and 
transparent process conducted by 
A.S. Council and A.S. President 
Daniel Juarez when establishing the 
budget, there are items that deserve 
to be analyzed further.
For the first time in several 
years, A.S. Council came out of 
their budget meeting declaring 
a surplus of over $6,000 out 
of the $5,171,256 that the 
Student Activity Fee puts at 
their disposition. We applaud 
Council’s decision to disclose 
the full version of its budget, 
and we would like to remind 
all readers that although the 
sums mentioned can seem 
preposterous, all come down to 
a few pennies per person.
A.S. Council rightly 
allocated money to different 
entities that feed directly 
back into the student body. 
The budget pledges $36,000 to A.S. 
Safe Rides, in a continuing effort to 
insure all students get home safely. 
$3,000 were pledged to the Student 
Organized Voter Access Committee 
(SOV AC), which attempts to help all 
eligible students sign up to vote. Juarez 
said that for the first time, UCSD led 
all UC campuses in the total number 
of students registered to vote, proof 
of the effectiveness of such programs. 
The Council also dedicated $34,200 to 
the Food Pantry, looking to help the estimated 42 percent of UC students 
that are food-insecure, according 
to the UC Office of the President. 
The New Y ork Times’ Collegiate 
Readership Program, which certainly 
benefits campus, costs students $5,775 
a year, and must be advertised more 
on its first year back on campus.
A.S. Council also allocated funds 
to impactful programs that receive 
little to no recognition. The Triton 
Lobby Corp, for one, was pledged 
$3,000. Although many students could 
think that a group lobbying for UCSD 
seems superfluous, President Juarez 
assures it helps show our voter power 
to force both the state and the UC 
system to take notice and advocate for 
students. Another item of contention 
on the budget was the doubling of 
the senator’s stipends, which Juarez 
justified by saying it encourages 
people from low incomes to apply 
to student government positions. Juarez also stressed that more money 
leads to more accountability, with 
meeting attendance now being 
closely monitored and financially 
incentivised, a measure all of us at the 
Guardian can only applaud.
Everything, however, is not all 
pink and rosy. We don’t think all 
students would approve of one-
fifth of their student fees going to 
the Office of Concerts and Events 
— nearly three-fourths of 
which is allocated toward Sun 
God alone. We don’t find it 
appropriate, either, that the 
student fees cover the travels 
of the President and the A.S. 
Retreat, regardless of whether 
or not it successfully develops 
leaders. It is also questionable 
that student fees should pay for 
salaries of University Center 
employees, which amount to 
almost $700,000, even if those 
employees provide services 
directly to students. 
We understand it is a 
strenuous task to deal with 
allocating such a sum of money, 
but the students have a voice in the 
process and should be interested in 
knowing where their money goes to. 
One last point of contention: maybe 
A.S. Council should be raising some 
of the funds for their “personal 
expenses, ” instead of digging into the 
budget just because it is large enough 
to satisfy their needs. However, 
overall, we think our student 
government made sound choices 
and deserve praise for conducting a 
transparent process.With Transparency, A.S. 
Council Makes Sound 
Decision in Yearly Budget
A.S. Council should 
be raising some of 
the funds for their 
“personal expenses,” 
instead of digging 
into the budget just 
because it is large 
enough to satisfy 
their needs.
“
“
“
“A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“The Accountant” is, in 
many ways, a passably 
enjoyable film. It 
features competent and reasonably 
famous actors, a well-wound plot and 
all the clockwork cinematography of a 
very professional, very well-conducted 
office affair. That would be enough to 
warrant a few stars, if “The Accountant” 
was an inoffensively milquetoast 
action-thriller. It is not. Instead, director 
Gavin O’Connor has made something 
wholly more virulent, even insidious: 
a film constructed upon the cynical 
exploitation of pervasive stereotypes, a 
perpetuation of public anxiety around                                              
autism-spectrum disorders. 
As such, “The Accountant” 
transcends its own banality to become 
a moral and ethical transgression. 
This is a movie that actively panders 
to misconception. It is the cinematic 
equivalent of the anti-vaxxer 
movement, albeit delivered with 
less reactionary terror and coated 
with a heap of sugar for the nervous                theater-goer. 
The protagonist, Christian 
Wolff (Ben Affleck, coasting on his 
naturally inexpressive physiognomy) 
is a savant, a man at a distance from 
the world. The viewer is familiarized 
with Chris’ struggles through a series 
of flashbacks, the frame story for 
his current life. The tale begins at a 
doctor’s home, where young Chris has 
been brought for interactive therapy. 
His mother is optimistic — his father, 
less so. What follows would be, in a 
remotely realistic film, deeply harmful 
for an autistic child: Chris is pulled 
from the sessions, as his tight-wound 
military father takes issue with what 
he sees as pansy feel-good pandering.                     
We are treated to snapshots of a life 
replete with brutal training scenes, 
sojourns to foreign lands and dead-
eyed Affleck acting. 
Naturally, this all culminates into 
Chris becoming a mathematical 
whiz-cum-ninja accountant. He 
amasses cash by cooking the books for numerous unsavory organizations and 
catches the eye of a particular Treasury 
agent, Raymond King (J. K. Simmons, 
blatantly phoning in his performance), 
who enlists the unwilling help of 
underling Marybeth Medina (Cynthia 
Addai-Robinson). In a better film, 
a lengthy game of cat-and-mouse 
would commence, but here the agents 
serve only as window-dressing to 
underscore Chris’ innate worldliness 
and daredevil cool. He’s even got the                
government on his case, and they’re in 
way over their heads!
There’s a girl, of course, Dana 
Cummings (Anna Kendrick, who 
endows her cardboard character 
with traces of personality), though 
the scripted romance doesn’t follow 
through in quite the expected fashion. 
There’s a villain, too, because O’Connor 
wants to have his cake and eat it. He 
wishes for the audience to sympathize 
with both the agents and Chris, a 
nuanced conflict between the alienated 
loner and the well-meaning enforcers of justice — so, to compensate, he 
introduces mad-eyed merc Brax (Jon 
Bernthal). The resulting mess is a 
hash of various interests ping-ponging 
about, with the central dilemma both 
unbalanced and carelessly resolved by 
the film’s end.
Ultimately, what breaks “The 
Accountant” is its slavish adherence to 
cliche and refusal to portray a person 
who is autistic as a person at all. Chris 
is a tragedy, an alien to be viewed with 
either sympathy or awe by viewers. 
He’s given all the key symptoms to cue 
the audience in on the game, as though 
O’Connor briefly looked through the 
DSM-V and underlined all headings 
and buzzwords under “autism. ” How 
might audience members on the 
spectrum feel about such a tawdry, 
trite portrayal? It certainly bears 
considering, seeing as Chris is one of 
their few on-screen representations. 
Instead, he’s treated as an oh-so-sad 
ultra-warrior, at odds with the world 
and himself. It’s a pity O’Connor couldn’t manage much more depth, or 
much more respect — and this extends 
to his neurotypical characters, all of 
which only barely manage to scrape 
the barrel concerning dimensions. 
A film need not be a perfect 
representation of humanity at its most 
infallible, nor didactic in any fashion. 
However, fidelity is integral to creation 
— one doesn’t claim the capital of the 
United States is Sacramento, unless 
explicitly constructing an alternate 
world. Thus, it is equally ridiculous to 
see a feature so haphazardly researched 
and foolishly done. Sensitive 
material ought to be handled with 
thoughtfulness and care rather than 
ignorant populism. 
—   Alicia  Lepler
 Staff WriterA mass of tired tropes and a poorly-researched portrayal of autism, “The Accountant” palls.
The newest season of “Poor Decisions” features an all-star cast of great comedians 
behaving their absolute worst.
Directed by   Gavin O’Connor
Starring  Ben Affleck, Anna Kendrick, J.K. Simmons
Release Date   October 14, 2016
Rating   RDFILM  REVIEW
The Account ant
PHOTO COURTESY OF WARNER BROS
TV  REVIEW
If you are moving overseas for six 
months, leaving a giant tub of 
raw tuna on your kitchen floor is 
probably not such a hot idea.
Ditto for moving overseas to sell a 
radioactive energy drink direct from 
North Korea or using a military-
grade helicopter to drop sand all over 
London in a failed publicity stunt. 
Poor decisions indeed are made by 
Todd Margaret, the titular character 
of this British/American crossover 
comedy. When he leaves his feline 
best friend at home and heads across 
the pond to start what he thinks is 
a new beginning, the stage is set for 
steady doses of absurdity and laugh-
out-loud moments.
“The Increasingly Poor Decisions of 
Todd Margaret” is an incredibly bold, 
dark comedy that dares to take on risky 
subject matter. David Cross plays a 
lovable loser — something he has made 
a career out of — working a menial 
temp job who suddenly finds himself 
shipped off overseas to head an entire 
sales division in England, peddling 
a drink that may be more toxic than 
your average Red Bull. Todd Margaret 
quickly finds himself embroiled in the 
career of a local chef, suicide pacts at 
the Houses of Parliament and a terror 
cell operating around the corner out 
of a convenience store. While many 
modern comedies try to be offensive to 
advance the comedic elements, joking about domestic terrorism is a touchy 
subject for audiences on both sides of 
the Atlantic. The show’s jokes about 
truck bombs, terror plots and auto-
erotic asphyxiation may turn some 
viewers off, but what makes the show 
very watchable — and ultimately great 
— is that there is never a real sense 
of danger or suspense, no real risk of 
innocent people getting hurt.
Fans of the cult American 
sitcom “ Arrested Development” will 
immediately see the close similarity 
with Cross’ character from that show, 
Dr. Tobias Fünke. Cross played the 
jean short-loving, tender-hearted 
double entendre-machine for five 
seasons (and counting) on network 
television and Netflix. The fact that 
he can find two successful vehicles for 
what is essentially the same character 
is a major win for him. Even fellow 
comic actors with wider appeal, such as 
Michael Richards (“Seinfeld’s” Cosmo 
Kramer) and Matt LeBlanc (“Friends’” 
Joey Tribiani), have completely failed 
to achieve such heights.
Many Americans aren’t particularly 
fond of British comedies, which can 
often feature dry and offbeat humor 
that is outside their comfort zone. Our 
cousins overseas would probably point 
to many Americans’ lack of cultural 
sophistication (or even cultural 
awareness at all, but more on that 
later). However, the large and brash personalities of Cross and his fellow 
“ Arrested Development” co-star Will 
Arnett tend to dominate the show’s 
best scenes and generally outshine 
their British counterparts. They inject 
an Americanized slapstick sensibility 
into the show and throw a cog into 
the traditional British comedy 
formula, making the show much more 
watchable for American audiences. In 
this season specifically, the addition 
of Jon Hamm (“Mad Men”) and Jack 
McBrayer (“30 Rock”) accentuates this 
contrast even more. 
David Cross is not a great actor. 
There may be some debate as to 
whether he is even a good one. But like 
many comedians-turned-actors, he has 
incredible comic timing and delivery 
that perfectly fit many of the roles 
he chooses to take on. Cross got his 
start in political standup, specifically 
standup lampooning the average red-
state American. It’s interesting that he 
embraces this stereotype to a high 
degree in his latest role, playing an 
American with no cultural awareness 
or political correctness of any sort. 
“The Increasingly Poor Decisions of 
Todd Margaret” shows that comedies 
can be great by not trying to reject 
stereotypes but fully embracing them.
—   Spike  Hemans  
Contributing WriterCreated by   David Cross
Starring  David Cross, Will Arnett, Sharon Hogan, Blake Harrison
Runs   Full Season Available on Netflix b+
the  increasingl y  
poor  decisions  of  PHOTO COURTESY OF IFC THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career
“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careersIt is difficult to make a film about 
a topic that is deeply personal, 
even more so to do it well. 
“Moonlight” is centered around a 
challenging narrative that is usually 
passed over in favor of lighter material. 
Despite the propensity of modern 
media to present stereotypic or 
outdated depictions of drug addiction, 
homosexuality and African-American 
life, Jenkins is able to expertly address 
these important topics. He does so in a 
way that allows any audience member 
to empathize with the struggles of each 
character and relate Chiron’s search for 
identity to their own lives.
“Moonlight” has a unique plot 
but is conventionally structured. Its 
progression resembles “Boyhood” 
in that it chronologically follows 
the story of a man at specific ages 
where significant development occurs. 
Divided into three parts, the film details 
the life of a homosexual black man 
coming to terms with himself while 
struggling to comprehend the chaotic 
world around him. The first act shows 
Chiron (“Shy-rone”) as an eight-year-
old growing up in Miami. His mother 
is struggling with drug addiction, and 
we see him run to Juan, who — in a 
display of poetic irony — is a drug 
dealer. We then return to Chiron as a 
bullied 16-year-old, when increasingly 
violent events derail his life. The final 
act comes back to him as a full-grown 
adult, played by Trevante Rhodes. 
Focused in what it portrays, this last 
part consists of only five scenes. This 
allows each interaction, set piece and 
cut to play into the significance of the story. As time slowly drags on, the 
colors soak in and the heavy weight 
of Chiron’s character sets deep into 
the audience’s subconscious.
The title “Moonlight” comes from 
the play that the film is based on, 
alluded to during a piece of dialogue: 
“In moonlight, black boys look blue. ” 
It is no coincidence, then, that as 
Juan was nicknamed Blue as a kid, 
Chiron is constantly called Black by 
his friend Kevin. These nicknames are 
something Juan rejects, telling Chiron 
that no one else can tell him who 
he is. This resonates through Chiron’s 
interactions with his mother and 
Kevin, the only two other characters 
who appear in all three arcs of his life.
“Moonlight” is heartbreaking, 
beautiful and poignant, but the word 
that best describes it is nuanced. The 
sound and cinematography work 
together to establish the piece in time 
and create unforgettable moments, 
such as whenever Chiron returns to the 
beach where he learned how to swim. 
Shots are carefully framed to visually 
depict the isolation that is forced upon 
Chiron in every stage of his life. Words 
are not needed to feel his loneliness as 
children, then later teenagers, run past 
without acknowledging his still figure. 
Jenkins’ contemporary inspirations are 
easily apparent but justified in their 
presence. The long, moving steadicam 
shots may seem familiar to fans of 
Emmanuel Lubezki, one of today’s 
most distinguished cinematographers, 
but where Lubezki’s camera moves 
more omnisciently through a scene 
in his films, cinematographer James Laxton gives the point of view more 
personality, as if the viewer is actively 
observing what occurs. Combine this 
with the shallow depth of field, use of 
anamorphic lenses and filmic color, 
and “Moonlight” becomes cinematic 
tension at its finest.
Jenkins expertly targets and 
discusses the issues he wants to. By removing any extraneous detail and 
only providing us with the moments 
that matter, every second of his piece 
becomes tense, filled with weight and 
importance. Even though the story 
of Chiron is a singular one told in 
a modern and insightful way, how 
Chiron feels is something universally 
relatable, reminiscent of whenever there is a struggle to find oneself or 
feel accepted by a judgmental society.
—   Kenji  Bennett
 Contributing Writer
FILM  REVIEW
Directed by   Barry Jenkins
Starring Mahershala Ali, Alex R. Hibbert, Ashton Sanders
Release Date   October 21, 2016
Rating   RAMoonlight
An intimate portrayal of a troubled man’s struggles with 
society speaks volumes with few words.PHOTO COURTESY OF A248     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Hell on Wheels: What to Do When 
Buses Are Driving You Crazy
Sleepy Students: Where 
to Nap on CampusBy Jocelyn Yang // Contributing Writer
By Tara Nejad // Staff WriterThere are a handful of characters you’re bound to meet 
in your life. Y ou’ve got the best friend, the annoying 
roommate, the hot TA and maybe — somewhere 
down the line — even the evil mother-in-law. I am far from 
getting acquainted with a real monster-in-law, but I’ve recently 
encountered some people who closely fit the bill. If you too are 
a commuter, you may have had the honor of meeting new bus 
drivers multiple times a day. As if public transportation wasn’t 
already a new and scary addition to my novel commuter lifestyle. 
Thankfully, the U-Pass gives you VIP access to more routes than 
needed. Not that I’ve been officially diagnosed, but I’ d like to 
think that I have mild number dyslexia to blame for my horrible 
bus-riding skills. There’s a 202 and a 101, but also a 201. Then, 
there’s a 3 and a 10, but also a 30. See what I mean? So, it might be 
helpful to know what you’re getting yourself into before you step 
aboard these big rigs. The following is a collection of personal bus 
experiences, neatly compiled for your convenience: 
Route 101 : This is your alternative to the jam-packed 200 
bus series. After a temporary one-year shutdown of the popular 
Westfield UTC bus stop (due to construction), we’ve been seeing 
a little less of the ol’ blue Breeze, especially since fewer come 
around every hour. The 101 drivers tend to take after the model 
of the bus: quiet and easygoing. 
Route 202 and Route 201-Superloop : Here you have your 
Dependables, like the soft side of Sylvester Stallone and his army of bulky A-list celebrities. These guys will be the starring roles 
between your on-campus and off-campus commutes, as they 
consistently pick up and bring back a mass of sleepy apartment-
dwellers as early as 6 a.m. until as late as midnight. 
Here’s the catch: this midnight deadline is not definite. If the 
bus ends its route 15 minutes prior to Cinderella’s dreaded time 
of night, it will not circle back for another round just to pick you 
up from the ball at 12:01 A.M. Sorry Cindy.
And another thing: The 201 and 202 drivers tend to be feisty. 
Y ou would think that after a four-hour lab in which I work with 
dangerous chemicals, I would be in the clear for unpredictable 
species. Put your personal protective equipment back on, because 
you’re about to encounter some more volatile specimens. The 
201 and 202 bus drivers aren’t mean, per se, but they may be 
more short-tempered because they have more to deal with. 
It’s one thing to help with hauling and locking multiple bikes 
onto the racks during the hotter La Jolla days, but it’s a whole 
new challenge to have to deal with hordes of rude, stubborn,         
sweaty students.
Route 150 Express : Don’t be fooled by the slow crawl of the 150. 
It may take a while to trudge up the hill before picking you up, but 
this massive transportation contraption flies up to 70 mph on the 
freeway. If you’re in no mood to peruse some historical artifacts 
in Old Town after school on a Wednesday, I highly suggest you 
avoid the 150 Express. Before you know it, you will start losing sight of apartment buildings and start seeing cars speeding down 
multiple lanes. That might provide some explanation for the 150 
drivers’ slightly more docile natures: They get some stress out by 
punching it on the highway.
Quick Hints and Tips:
tIf you can’t sprint to the bus stop in hopes of beating the 
end-of-class crowd fast enough, brace yourself for an 
approximate 20-minute delay. 
tTake the time to walk at least one stop upstream of the 
route. So far, it’s been a near guarantee for me to get 
home one or two buses faster. 
tLearn to judge crowd sizes in bus units. If the people-
count is more than four buses-worth, take a quick 
catnap in Geisel. Y ou’ll be more likely to catch a non-
claustrophobic bus during the off-times. 
tProper bus etiquette calls for standees to take off 
backpacks. I found that the two biggest enemies of 
efficient bus flow are passenger loading and ID searching. 
To speed things along, I suggest you have your ID at the 
ready while waiting. 
tBe courteous and aware of your surroundings — it 
wouldn’t hurt to keep an earbud out. Who knows — 
maybe then you’ll notice that you ride the same bus as 
that ever-elusive hot TA. 
As a commuter, it can take 
anywhere from 10 minutes 
to over an hour to get home 
from campus. This may leave you 
asking the important question: 
“How can I take my much-needed 
naps?” Not to worry! There are 
many places around campus that 
you can use as ideal napping 
locations. 
Spot number one: the six college 
Commuter Lounges.  
Each college provides its 
commuters with a comfortable 
space to study, relax, eat and 
even sleep. The lounges are 
open to everyone and often 
have both tables and couches                               
available for use.
Spot number two: Geisel 
Library. 
Central to most places on 
campus, Geisel is a great place 
to close your eyes during breaks 
between classes. The upper floors 
are known to be silent and can 
facilitate great sleep while the 
bottom floors have a wide variety 
of comfortable chairs dispersed 
between the different areas of 
Geisel East and West. 
Spot number three: The Zone.  
The Zone is the only place on campus with a designated resting 
space. Students are welcome 
to come take naps on the large 
beanbags available and are also 
offered free tea and water.
Spot number four: grass lawns. 
For those of you who enjoy 
resting under the sun, there are 
many lush, green patches of 
grass that are great for napping 
throughout UCSD. To name a 
few, there are grass lawns between 
Price Center and Library Walk, in 
front of Cafe Ventanas in Eleanor 
Roosevelt College and in front of 
Galbraith Hall in Revelle Plaza. 
Spot number five: second floor 
of Price Center. 
Above the madness of the food 
court in Price Center, there are 
some great couches to rest on on 
the second floor. The couches line 
the edges of both PC East and 
West, but a hotspot for resting 
is between The Zone and the 
Multicultural Center, because the 
foot traffic is limited and there are 
very cozy couches. 
While they may not be as 
comfortable as your bed, check out 
some of these napping spots the 
next time you find yourself sleepy 
on campus! 
Illustration by Sam Xu // UCSD Guardian
Photo by Esra Elhendy // UCSD Guardian
Photo by  Hannah Oh // UCSD Guardian
Photo by  Esra Elhendy// UCSD Guardian THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. 
Take our Entertainment Survey to
be entered for the chance to win a
$10 Starbucks gift card.
https:/ /studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE NIGHT ” — Thursday — 3rd Game Free
LATE NIGHT  at the ZONE — Fri & Sat — Midnight to 2am
GROUP EVENTS — Huge Party Area to 150+ Guests
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
20% OFF   your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.comBang For Your Buck
By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
Illustration by April Gau // UCSD GuardianStep one into (actual) 
adulthood — moving off-
campus and coming to 
terms with monthly rent, utility 
bills and, shockingly enough, 
paying for Wi-Fi. Unless this 
means moving into your nearest 
Starbucks and taking advantage 
of their free internet and water, 
the commuter life isn’t always 
the most glamorous experience. 
And let’s not forget to mourn the 
loss of dining dollars — while the 
dining halls at UCSD aren’t the 
most raved about, the convenience 
of food at the swipe of a card 
is possibly the most beautiful 
thing any college student could 
ask for. But, not to fear: Lifestyle 
has a few tips for the commuting 
community (and insight for those 
intending on moving off-campus) 
to save money as you step off the 
202 and onto campus.
Tip #1: Always bring your own 
food. 
Unless you have that one 
freshman friend who still lives 
on campus, and you can count 
on their outpouring of generosity, 
meals add up. While the Price 
Center food court does offer 
a range of price options, 
it can still get quite 
pricy — particularly 
the on-campus Starbucks that has increased their 
prices a tad too obviously. But with 
the exorbitant lines for a merely 
mediocre meal, eating at PC is 
about as useful as spending $0.50 
on an HDH-provided banana 
when you can get a $0.19 banana 
from Trader Joe’s. Instead, stock 
up on grains, buy frozen meat in 
bulk (Ralph’s offers a significant 
bag of chicken for $7) and prepare 
some meals Sunday night for the 
rest of the week. Buying a bag 
of rice, frozen vegetables and 
some chicken can save you up                        
to $3.50 a day, which seems small, 
but when it comes to paying rent, 
will help tremendously.
Tip #2: … The same goes for 
coffee.
I know, sometimes you can’t 
make it through the day without 
the second or third cup of coffee 
by the time your 5:00 p.m. lecture 
rolls around. But instead of paying 
$1.75 or more for an on-campus 
cup of joe, make a little extra in 
the morning and keep the excess 
in a thermos you can sip from 
throughout the day. If you prefer 
coffee relatively 
fresh, bring a 
ziploc bag 
of instant 
c o f f e e 
g r o u n d s 
and a 
thermos, head to the nearest dining hall 
and fill up on hot water there 
to make a “fresh” brew. And if 
that still doesn’t suit your fancy, 
at least bring your own thermos; 
places like Muir Woods offer 
discounts if you bring your own 
caffeine container. These tips can 
save anywhere from $3.75–$8.75 
a week. (Bonus tip: Don’t like 
coffee, but still need the caffeine? 
Head to The Zone for free tea, and 
complimentary bags to take loose 
leaf to-go.)
Tip #3: Take advantage of the 
bus pass.
Although sometimes unreliable, 
the MTS is a real lifesaver when it 
comes to transportation. Parking 
permits only add that extra burden 
on top of the tuition you’re paying 
for, especially when an all-day pass 
is $20 and S permits are $732 
annually. Top that off with gas 
money spent on trying to actually 
find a parking spot, and the 
value of  taking the bus might 
just actually outweigh driving. For 
those living a bit further outside 
the UCSD bubble, try out the night 
pass or alternate schedule pass that 
can save up to $300. And if all else 
fails, find a carpool buddy (and at 
least help pitch in for gas). 
Tip #4: Do take advantage of 
the gym.
Gym membership prices off 
campus, especially in La Jolla, can 
be ridiculously high. And if you 
happen to live in a complex that 
doesn’t offer a facility, but still need 
that morning workout, remember 
that you’re already paying for the 
recreational fees at UCSD (*insert 
small nod of disapproval*). So 
take advantage of the equipment 
at RIMAC, Canyon View or 
Main Gym if you happen to be 
on campus for class that day. 
Hauling that gym bag around 
might be a pain, but so is paying 
about $600 for the basic plan                                        
at UTC’s 24-Hour Fitness. 
Have any tips you want to 
share with the Guardian? Email 
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org to 
get your advice featured on our 
website! Be a sport and share 
your cost-cutting tips with your 
fellow off-campus compadres. 
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
AUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires 
- GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 
307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condition. 
They come with a pelican case and ballast. 
They all have bulbs and some lighting 
accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 
4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FREE Electric Cement Mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In work -
ing condition but note wheels are broken.
Pick up from DeakinLast Edited Condition 
Used... Pictures and contact information on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 310101715 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972OCTOBER 22 - NATIONAL COLOR DAY
t
your vision, our mission .
The Associated Students StoreContact madetoorder@ucsd.edu
for a FREE QUOTE!Create custom apparel to promote your
student organiz ation with  Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!
6+O3 TR,TO1 OUTF,TTER6
to.ucsd.edu
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
why I’m standing in front of you today. 
Y ou have to understand that pitching 
takes a lot of concentration and it’s 
exhausting. And having a catcher who 
removes a lot of that burden for you is 
worth its weight in gold. ”
With eight national titles in 
swimming, W atanabe is one of the 
most accomplished athletes in       
school history.
Ironically, swimming wasn’t the 
sport that W atanabe wanted to play at 
UCSD when she was a freshman. 
“Coming in, I was convinced I 
didn’t want to swim and I was going 
to try out for the basketball team, ” 
Watanabe said. “I think it was my 
parents who said, ‘Y ou should try out 
just in case; you can have something 
to fall back on, ’ and luckily for me I did. There is so much to gain in 
participating in sports. ”
In addition to inducting four new 
members into the Hall of Fame, the 
2006 UCSD men’s water polo team 
was also honored at Sunday’s event. 
It was the 10-year anniversary of 
the historical 2006 season where the 
Tritons were ranked as high as third in 
the country. The team posted a 26–6 
overall record along with their 14th 
Western W ater Polo Association title. 
They would go on to finish in third 
place at the NCAA Championships. 
Athletes Peter Gresham, Ty Lackey, 
Ben Miller, Sean Roberts, Kyle Sutterly, 
Curtis Williamson, Joe Woodring and 
head coach Denny Harper were in 
attendance for the team. Tritons Extend Winning Streak To Nine
UCSD shuts out Cal State Dominguez Hills to clinch spot in CCAA tournament. WOMEN'S SOCCER
UCSD continued its undefeated 
run through the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association with 
a convincing 2–0 victory over Cal 
State Dominguez Hills. The No. 9 
Tritons won their ninth-straight 
game and celebrated Senior Day in 
style. With the win, UCSD moves to 
12–2 overall and 8–0 in the CCAA, 
with the six last games coming with 
complete game shutouts by redshirt 
senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez. 
Their perfect record does not give 
the Tritons a big cushion, however, 
as they are only three points ahead of 
second place and last year’s regular 
season champion Sonoma State.With the win, UCSD was the 
first team to clinch a postseason 
seat for the six-team 2016 CCAA 
Tournament. The Tritons will look 
to preserve their tournament title 
acquired a year ago.
The Tritons opened the score 
in the 17th minute, when redshirt 
freshman holding central midfielder 
Natalie Saddic scored her first 
collegiate goal. The score came off 
a corner kick by redshirt senior 
midfielder Kiera Bocchino.
UCSD doubled the score when 
junior forward Katie O’Laughlin 
put another one through, getting 
an assist from sophomore forward 
Mary Reilly. O’Laughlin now leads 
the West Region and the CCAA with 
12 goals on the season. Bocchino now has three assists, while Reilly 
owns the team lead with nine. 
Gonzalez has a league-leading 
10th individual clean sheet with 
three saves on the day. The Toros’ 
junior goalkeeper, Elisa Martin, had 
10 stops on the day. UCSD outshot 
its opponent 27–6, including 17–1 in 
the first 45 minutes. This concluded 
a dominant weekend of defensive 
prowess, as UCSD shut out Cal State 
LA on Friday without allowing them 
to attempt a shot. 
Seniors Bocchino, co-captain 
defender Meghan Berry, Gonzalez, 
midfielder Jamie Benedetto and 
midfielder Kristen Sampietro were 
the five seniors recognized for 
Senior Day before the game.
UCSD continues its season on 
the road, facing Cal State Stanislaus 
on Friday night, Oct. 21.UCSD’s 2006 Men’s Water Polo Team 
Was Also Being Honored At T he Event
▶ HALL OF FAME,  from page 12
Dev  Jain  dajain@ucsd,edu
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu  BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
managing editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
From Left to Right
J.J. CASTNER
Men's Cross Country/Track & Field 
t
Oak Park, Calif.
PAT WEISHAN
.FOT(PMGt
San Diego, Calif. (Valhalla High 
School)
RICK NOWAK
#BTFCBMMt
Pasadena, Calif.
JENNIFER WATANABE
8PNFOT4XJNNJOH%JWJOHt

Monterey Park, Calif.SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 20, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Four new members were officially 
inducted into the UCSD Hall of Fame 
by the Department of Intercollegiate 
Athletics at a ceremony Sunday 
morning at the Great Hall. The UCSD 
Athletics Hall of Fame was created in 
2013 with the intent to distinguish and 
celebrate student-athletes, coaches and 
others who have made extraordinary 
contributions to the legacy of          
UCSD athletics.
J.J. Castner (men’s cross country/
track and field, 1992–96), Rick Nowak 
(baseball, 1986–88), Jennifer W atanabe 
(women’s swimming and diving, 1999–
03) and Pat Weishan (men’s golf, 1983–
87) round out the new Class of 2016. 
This is the fourth class inducted into 
the UCSD Athletic Hall of Fame. 
“Sports have an amazing ability 
to show us the best that we can be and also the best that society can be. 
J.J. Castner, Rick Nowak, Jennifer 
Watanabe and Pat Weishan, today 
you are being honored and rightly 
so. Y ou have sweated, struggled and 
succeeded. Today, your name is added 
to the others in the Hall of Fame. It 
will surely act as an inspiration to other 
UCSD students to have their name in 
the Hall of Fame, ” UCSD Director of 
Athletics Earl Edwards said.
Pitcher Rick Nowak is the Tritons’ 
all-time leader in single-season 
strikeouts and innings pitched. After 
UCSD, Nowak would go on to play 
professionally for the Toronto Blue 
Jays in Major League Baseball. Nowak 
talked about how his catcher Bob Natal 
was so integral to his success at UCSD, 
saying, “Bobby was the best catcher 
I’ d ever thrown to at any level, whom 
I’ve ever played with. He’s a big reason Gua r d  Stephen Curry, 
forward Kevin Durant and 
the Golden State W arriors 
returned to La Jolla for preseason 
practice at RIMAC Arena for the 
second year in a row. The W arriors 
arrived in San Diego on Sunday, 
Oct. 16, and were preparing for their 
second preseason game against the Los 
Angeles Lakers on Wednesday night.
“It’s just a beautiful city, and it’s 
nice to get to other parts of California, ” 
Curry said, happy to be in San Diego. 
Warriors head coach Steve Kerr 
owns a home in nearby Rancho Santa 
Fe. “I slept in my own bed last night, 
and I slept great, ” Kerr said. “It’s nice to 
be home, despite the rain. I always love 
coming back here, ” said Kerr.
The Warriors’ practice came 
immediately after their 112–107 
victory against the Lakers in Las Vegas last Saturday. As expected, guard Klay 
Thompson, Durant and Curry carried 
the scoring load as the trio combined 
for 55 points in just 57 total minutes of 
playing time. The Western Conference 
champions defended a strong lead 
in the second half, with Thompson, 
Durant and Curry standing out as    
key players.
The Golden State practice session 
finished promptly at noon with 20 
minutes allowed for media interviews 
and photos in RIMAC on Monday 
and Tuesday. 
The W arriors will face off against 
former Warriors assistant coach 
and current Lakers head coach                     
Luke Walton. 
Forward Draymond Green 
commented on Walton’s basketball 
knowledge. “He’s not too far removed 
from the game, so he’ll understand everything, and he understands it from 
both sides, ” Green said. 
The Golden State Warriors, a 
73-win team, suddenly gained one of 
the best players in the NBA when 
Durant shocked the sports world, 
leaving the Oklahoma City Thunder 
for them. 
“When you can get shots in the 
flow of the offense and it takes the 
pressure off, ” Durant stated, when 
asked about how he would fit into 
the Warriors offense. “I’m not good 
at dribbling the ball in the crowd or 
driving the ball when people help; 
then [our opponents] strip the ball, so 
I have to avoid that stuff. ”
Curry also commented on how 
Durant has been fitting in with             
the team. 
“He’s been great, ” Curry said. “H e’s 
a basketball player and that is what we have: a lot of basketball players who 
understand the game and have fun 
playing. [I’m] excited to see what this 
season’s going to be about. ” 
Durant’s decision was also met 
with a lot of scrutiny in the basketball 
world, as Los Angeles Clippers 
forward Paul Pierce, among others, 
criticized him for going to the team 
that knocked Durant’s Thunder 
out of the playoffs. Curry asserted 
that the team is focused on winning 
and isn’t paying attention to outside 
distractions. 
“ At the end of the day, he could 
[not] care less, ” Curry said. “We 
could [not] care less about whether 
he gets booed, cheered, whatnot. 
We’re here to play basketball, and 
he’s here to have fun and we’re here 
to win games. That’s what we’re 
going to focus on. ”The Warriors’ other superstar, 
Thompson, talked about how playing 
in the Olympics allowed him to get 
ready for the beginning of the NBA 
season. “It helped a lot, especially 
being with Draymond [Green] and 
KD [Durant], ” Thompson said. “I 
didn’t have time to work on one part 
of my game, but I got better by just 
being out there and representing my 
country. That was a great experience 
and obviously I want to improve 
my efficiency every year. The main 
thing for me is to keep attacking 
the rim. ” 
The Warriors begin their NBA 
season on Tuesday, Oct. 25, at home 
against the San Antonio Spurs.
The UCSD Hall of Fame 
Inductes Four New Members
The Class of 2016, J.J Castner, Rick Nowak, Jennifer Watanabe 
and Pat Weishan, were honored by the Athletics Hall of Fame.  
BY  D e v   J a i n
Sports EditorDev  Jain  dajain@ucsd,edu
See HALL OF FAME , page 11Readers Can COntactUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Water Polo
W.Volleyball
M.Water Polo
Swim
W.Volleyball10/20
10/21
10/23
10/29
10/296 PM
7 PM
12 PM
12 PM
7 PMVS Concordia
VS Humboldt State
VS UC Irvine
VS Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
VS Cal State San Bernardino
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
The Golden State 
Warriors Practice 
At RIMAC Arena
By Dev Jain // Sports EditorPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
The Warriors played the Lakers at Valley View Casino 
Center in a preseason matchup. Their season tips 
off on October 25th vs the Spurs.