VOLUME 49, ISSUE 37   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 29, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CAFFEINE IN 
GEISEL, FINALLY
REPLACE YOUR GREEN EGGS 
AND HAM, FOR FAIR TRADE 
COFFEE AND LOCALLY MADE 
SANDWICHES. THE SPRING 
OPENING OF AUDREY’S CAFE 
IS ONE OF MANY UPDATES TO 
THE ICONIC LIBRARY.
PRIORITIZING  BUSINESS
BASKETBALL PLA YOFFSSEXIST  BINDING  OF  CONTRACTS
TEAMS  LOOKED  POISED TO  WIN OPINION, P AGE 4
sPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY  
H 66 L 57TUESDAY
H 68 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 68 L 56THURSDAY
H 65 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IS YOUR INTERNET HISTORY 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN “HUH, 
THAT’S EMBARRASSING” AND 
“I WOULD GLEEFULLY GIVE 
UP MY FIRSTBORN CHILD IN 
ORDER TO HAVE THIS DEMOL -
ISHED IF IT WERE TAKEN FROM 
ME”? DO YOU HAVE A MILD 
INFATUATION WITH AMISH 
PEOPLE?”
- LIVE OFF THE GRID
How-To Guru
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
BIOINFORMATICS  ............ 2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
SPYWARE  ....................... 7
CROSSWORD  .................. 9
SOFTBALL  .................... 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  7
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /GUARDIAN
Two of UCSD’s professors in 
the anthropology department are 
working with the Israel Antiquities 
Authority to preserve archaeological 
sites in Israel that are threatened by 
both violence from extremist groups 
like ISIS and by development. Their 
collaborative efforts will update 
the Digital Archaeological Atlas of 
the Holy Land, the largest internet 
repository of archaeological data 
from Israel.
As the director of Qualcomm 
Institute’s Center for Cyber 
Archaeology and Sustainability, 
Professor Thomas Levy will lead 
the project alongside department 
research associate Steven Savage. 
Levy expressed enthusiasm for 
the unique opportunities that 
partnering with the IAA will foster. “We want to work closely 
with the IAA and other scholars 
and institutions from around the 
Mediterranean world to share 
data and build scholarly bridges 
between communities, ” Levy told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Having our 
students and faculty engaged with 
Israeli researchers and those from 
the neighboring lands in one of the 
most fascinating historical regions 
in the world is a great opportunity 
for them and the way forward to 
new discoveries and learning. ”
Director of Communications 
at the Qualcomm Institute Doug 
Ramsey emphasized the CCAS’s 
creation as a way of advancing the 
innovative use of computing in the 
social sciences.
“[The Qualcomm Institute 
has] several partnerships with the 
Division of Social Sciences, and 
by definition cyber-archaeology is a field that depends on hardware, 
software and systems to change the 
way archaeologists operate in the 
field, ” Ramsey said. “Professor Levy 
has been closely involved with our 
previous cyber-archaeology efforts, 
so it was a logical next step to 
partner with Social Sciences on the 
new Center for Cyber-Archaeology 
and Sustainability led by [him]. ”
The archaeological survey data 
includes basic site information, more 
than 17,000 photographs, site plans 
and artifact drawings. It will be added 
to the DAAHL as a node of the 
Mediterranean Archaeology Network, 
an online archaeological atlas that is 
easily accessible to the public.
Levy explained that the methods 
of data collection use the techniques 
found in the fields of computer 
science, engineering and natural 10 Teams 
Advance in 
Innovation 
CompetitionSTUDENTS
Each team received $2,000 
to compete in the second 
phase of UCSD’s Proof-of-
Concept Competition.
BY   L a u r e n   h o l t
The Proof of Concept Competition 
declared 10 teams of undergraduates the 
victors of Phase One of its innovation 
contest on Feb. 22. Sponsoring the 
program, the Basement and the Office 
of Innovation and Commercialization 
asked groups to propose product ideas 
for a chance at winning up to $2,000 in 
Phase One and $3,000 in Phase Two to 
develop their concepts. 
The competition attracted 
hundreds of applicants from all areas 
of learning with its broad guidelines, 
only requiring that teams submit 
a three-page paper to a committee 
of alumni and members from the 
Basement, OIC, and Entrepreneurs-
in-Residence. The winning 
teams presented a variety of ideas 
spanning from medical technology 
to philanthropic endeavors to Lego-
based toys.
According to Paul Roben, 
Associate Vice Chancellor for 
Innovation and Commercialization, 
the PoC Competition is centered 
around supporting student 
innovation and promoting 
campuswide entrepreneurship. 
“The first [reason for the contest] 
was we knew there were a lot of teams 
out there who would love to be able 
to [design products] but do not have 
the resources to do it, and the second 
was to support some of the teams 
that were already going through the 
Basement’s accelerated program, ” 
Roben told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The third purpose for any of these 
programs we do is to raise awareness 
for the entrepreneurship agenda 
across campus. ”
One of the contest winners, Earl 
W arren College senior Joseph Slaton 
of the SitRight team, which designed 
a posture pad that tells users how 
to correct their seated posture, had 
similar thoughts on the value of the 
competition to students. He stated to 
the Guardian that the competition 
fostered student enterprise.
“I feel like competitions like this 
are very important to students, not 
only because they provide the relatively 
small amount of funding that can be 
a barrier to entry for many students, 
but because they send a message that 
entrepreneurship is a worthy and 
attainable goal, ” Slaton explained.   
Warren freshman Yohann 
Samarsinghe, lead designer of the 
ReViSe product, which recycles 
rejected materials from tire 
manufacturing, explained to the 
Guardian that winning the PoC contest 
benefits his group and teammates by UCSD Hosts Black History 
Month Scholarship Brunch
UCSD held its annual Black History Month 
Scholarship Brunch this past Saturday, during 
which Chancellor Pradeep Khosla revealed a new 
scholarship initiative for African-American students. The 
brunch took place in the Price Center West Ballroom and 
featured humanitarian, producer and actor Danny Glover 
as the keynote speaker. 
Before Glover took the podium, Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla announced a new $30 million scholarship plan 
called the Black Academic Excellence Initiative, which 
will help expand the existing Black Alumni Scholarship 
Fund. The initiative aims to increase the number of black 
students at UCSD by lowering the apprehension they 
might have about the cost of tuition.
“One of the main components of this is the expansion 
of scholarships for African-American students, ” Khosla 
said. “We want to ensure that African-American 
Students can pursue a UC San Diego education free of 
financial worries. ” 
Following Khosla’s announcement, Danny Glover 
delivered the keynote speech on sites of African-American memory, which corresponds with this year’s Black History 
Month theme “Hallowed Grounds: Sites of African-
American Memory. ” One of the sites that Glover discussed 
was Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, 
recalling the church’s historic significance to the civil 
rights movement.
“Standing just near feet away from the Alabama state 
capitol, where entrenched opposition to desegregation 
was fortified, Dexter Avenue Baptist Church was steadfast 
in its righteous indignation in the literal face of injustice, ” 
Glover said. “ As Martin Luther King Jr. and a host of 
other activists planned the Montgomery bus boycott in 
the church’s basement, they initiated a movement that 
brought unprecedented social and political change to the 
United States. ”
During the brunch, Assistant Vice Chancellor of 
Admissions and Enrollment Services Mae Brown received 
an award for her 42 years of service at UCSD. Brown began 
working at the university as a senior clerk typist, after which 
she became the Director of Undergraduate Admissions in 
1995 and transitioned to her current position in 2004.B y   Maria  sebas      News Editorial AssistantSAN DIEGO
CAMPUS
Professors Preserve Data from Early Civilization
The Israel Antiquities Authority has collected data from approximately 18,500 sites.See SCHOLARSHIP , page 3
UCSD
BY   R E B E C CA  C H O N G
See CONTEST , page 3 See ISRAEL , page 2
Canadian rockband Metric hosted their concert at the House of Blues in downtown San Diego last Thursday night.
Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD Guardiansciences to revolutionize how 
archaeological field and lab work 
is done. 
“My lab and colleagues at 
UCSD’s Qualcomm Institute 
… have become leaders in the 
development of the digital data-
acquisition tools (real-time GPS, 
drones and helium balloons for 
high-definition photography and 
mapping) for recording archaeology 
and cultural heritage sites, ” Levy 
said to the Guardian in an email. 
“This includes the curation of 
digital cultural heritage data … the 
creation of digital repositories in the 
UC San Diego Library and finally 
the dissemination of archaeological 
data over the Internet. ”
Ramsey noted the importance 
of having access to this information 
for the sustainability of research and protection of sites like Israel as 
well as Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, 
southern Syria and the Sinai 
Peninsula — all considered part of 
the Holy Land.
“DAAHL makes it much easier for 
researchers and field archaeologists 
to access the IAA data and include 
it in their studies, ” Ramsey told 
the Guardian. “The data will also 
provide new incentives for students 
to learn about cyber-archaeology 
and how this brand-new field can 
safeguard ancient sites and artifacts 
— ensuring that there is a future for 
the past through conservation. ”
Israel is the crossroads of the 
world’s three major religions — 
Judaism, Islam and Christianity — 
that make many of the sites there, as 
well as in the surrounding areas of 
Jordan and the Sinai Peninsula, places 
of political and religious conflict. 
Levy emphasized the historical and evolutionary importance of these 
sites as rich sources of knowledge 
that need to be protected not only 
from the threat of ISIS but from the 
development of buildings as well.
“Israel is one of the most 
important places in the world for 
studying the spread of anatomically 
modern humans and the ‘Out of 
Africa’ theory, where every living 
human is descended from one 
African ‘Mitochondrial Eve’ who 
made their way from Africa through 
Israel and the neighboring lands 
into Europe and Asia, ” Levy said. 
“The region is incredibly rich in 
prehistoric sites ... [and many of 
them] are especially beautifully 
preserved in Israel and Jordan, so it 
is important to continue working on 
this issue. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “I AM ED BOARD” — KUBO.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip,  
Naftali Burakovsky, Oliver Kelton, Sam Velazquez
Heritage Site Data Will Be Captured Using Drone Imaging, GPS
▶ ISRAEL,  from page 1Researchers at UCSD and the J. 
Craig Venter Institute have identified 
genetic traits uniquely associated 
with disease-causing bacteria by 
comparing the genomes of all 20 
species within the genus Leptospira. 
The findings, published online in 
the Feb. 18 issue of PLOS Neglected 
Tropical Diseases, provide clues 
to its evolutionary history and to 
potential treatment approaches to 
Leptospirosis, a common, globally 
widespread bacterial disease.
Leptospirosis can affect livestock, 
companion animals and humans 
who come into contact with the 
urine of infected animals, either 
directly or by way of contaminated 
water or soils. The disease is caused 
by infectious bacteria of the genus 
Leptospira and can lead to kidney 
damage, respiratory complications 
and death if left untreated. 
Not all species of Leptospira 
contribute to this disease, however, and 
the distinction between infectious and 
noninfectious species lies in genetic 
differences. To determine the specific 
genomic features of those disease-
causing bacteria, scientists compared 
the complete genome sequences of the 
different species, both pathogenic and 
nonpathogenic, within Leptospira.  
This project stems from the 
Leptospira Genome Project, a large genome-sequencing effort funded 
by the National Institutes of Allergy 
and Infectious Diseases. Derrick 
Fouts, JCVI associate professor and 
first author, explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that the team’s objectives 
for the study were to generate a 
dataset that improves treatment 
approaches to Leptospirosis.
“We conducted this 
research project to gain a better 
understanding, through genomics, 
of the genetic differences that 
enable certain species of Leptospira 
infectious to humans while others 
are harmless environmental 
inhabitants, ” Fouts said. “We 
sequenced over 300 Leptospira 
isolates with the goal of generating a 
comprehensive dataset of Leptospira 
genome sequences that can be used to 
develop better diagnostics, vaccines 
and to better understand molecular 
mechanisms of pathogenesis that 
relate to different clinical outcomes. ”
The group of scientists employed 
bioinformatics to identify genetic 
differences within species of 
Leptospira. Fouts describes how 
a program he helped develop has 
allowed the team to identify genes 
and functions that were exclusively 
found in the genome of the 
pathogenic species.
“Using a new computer program 
called PanOCT, written by me 
and colleague Granger Sutton, 
we were able to identify several genetic features that collectively 
were only observed in isolates that 
cause human disease, ” Fouts said 
in an email to the Guardian. “Some 
examples include genes for adhesion 
to host cells, production of vitamin 
B12 (which is required for survival, 
but typically unavailable to bacteria 
inside the human body), and 
protection against host defenses. ”
Another significant finding was the 
discovery of a system present in the 
infectious species that serves to confer 
resistance to foreign genetic elements. 
Haritha Adhikarla, an associate 
research scientist in epidemiology at 
Y ale University and co-author of the 
study, describes the specific traits this 
system might be responsible for in 
disease-causing Leptospira. 
“One important finding of this 
study was discovery of the CRISPR-
Cas genetic machinery only in 
pathogenic Leptospira, but not in 
the intermediate or non-infectious 
groups of the genus, ” Adhikarla told 
the Guardian. “CRISPR elements 
provide [pathogenic leptospira] a 
form of acquired immunity and 
could be responsible for limited 
transformability of pathogenic 
species; additionally, they might 
have some evolutionary significance 
which needs to be investigated. ”
Fouts clarified that the machinery 
might provide pathogenic leptospira 
resistance to bacteriophages, viruses 
that infect bacteria, and suggested that Leptospira species that reside 
within the human host might be 
exposed to more bacteriophages.  
While the significance of this 
observation requires further 
research, the presence of CRISPR-
Cas may serve as one of several 
key adaptations found in infectious 
species of Leptospira. Adhikarla 
added that the team also discovered 
a large, novel protein family whose 
function is currently unknown — 
termed the Virulence Modifying 
proteins — in pathogenic Leptospira.
While there is currently no 
approved Leptospira vaccine for 
human use, Fouts predicted that the 
team’s genomic dataset will generate 
a better understanding of the 
mechanisms of infectious species 
and contribute to future vaccine 
development. 
“Having the genetic map of these 
bacterial pathogens, and many of 
the features that define them, will 
focus future research towards better 
diagnostics and vaccines, ” said Fouts. 
“I plan to continue using genomics 
and other techniques to validate 
our predictions and apply them 
to answer questions pertaining to 
environmental sources of infection 
and asymptomatic human carriage. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Genome Comparison Reveals Leptospira’s Infectious Traits
The study cross-referenced genomes of the bacterial genus to single out those genes unique to disease-causing species. 
By  K a r l y  N i s s o n
Karl y nisson   
Rebecca  chong    rcchong@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atgiving them the opportunity to pursue 
their concept without any personal 
financial risk. 
“This competition is huge in 
allowing students who have ideas to 
pursue and validate them, especially 
if they hope to one day take these 
ideas to market, ” Samarsinghe 
said. “ Also, since the funding is not 
directly out of pocket, we can tackle 
this as hard as we like without really 
having to worry about or be limited 
by any overbearing risk, which is an 
invaluable experience. ” 
According to Robert Cornwall, 
Sixth College senior and founder of 
Game Builder, an app that allows users 
to design and share games from their 
mobile devices, the contest heads did 
not give the $2,000 directly to the 
teams; they submitted requests for 
university administrators to purchase 
products on their behalf. However, the 
funding was still critical in advancing 
their game-creation app.
“Winning the contest was very exciting, ” Cornwall told the Guardian. 
“We were able to purchase all the 
software we need to create our 
product, and getting recognized was a 
big motivator for the team. ”
For the ten victorious teams, the 
competition is not yet over. Roben 
noted that each team will enter a 
second phase of the competition in 
which they have two months to work 
on their projects before presenting 
them to the committee to be judged 
on the implementation of their ideas. 
The top three or four teams will 
receive additional funding to further 
develop their broader concepts.
For groups unable to pass the first 
round of the competition, Roben 
pointed out that there are many other 
campus resources that these students 
can turn to for help.
“We are offering to work with 
[losing teams] as well to plug them 
into all the innovation forces and 
commercialization forces across 
campus, ” Roben explained. “The idea 
is that maybe this Proof of Concept 
program was not the right program for them, but these other programs across 
campus might be able to [support 
them] instead. ”
Given that this is the first time 
the competition has been held, 
Roben hopes to see improvements 
in future programs.
“I think there are ways that we 
could make the thing run more 
smoothly and efficiently, ” Roben said. 
“I would also like to explore ways 
to get even more interest from the 
social sciences, humanities and social 
innovation side of the campus. ”
However, because the 
competition was so popular, Roben 
believes The Basement and OIC 
might hold the PoC program again 
next academic year. 
“This particular round will work its 
way through, and in the fall we might 
think about running this competition 
again, ” Roben said. “I would like to see 
it be an annual event, but we have to 
take it one competition at a time. ”Brown told the UCSD Guardian 
that her office is dedicated to 
increasing the yield of African-
American students, but they still have 
a lot of work to do.
“We continue to work to increase 
diversity of all people and all groups, ” 
Brown said. “We continue to work 
hard with African-Americans because 
although we might drive to admit 
them, they tend not to take our offer. ”
Brown added that her office is 
actively seeks to increase diversity 
at UCSD through a number of 
different strategies. “We have an active recruitment 
strategy for all students of diverse 
populations and especially 
African-Americans, ” Brown said. 
“We work with high schools, 
community colleges and community 
organizations, and conduct campus 
tours so that students have the 
opportunity to visit the campus. ”
Two UCSD students, Thurgood 
Marshall College juniors Danielle 
Davis and Nielah McKee, were 
also recognized for their academic 
achievements and the Black History 
Month Scholarships they received. 
Davis told the Guardian that her DOC 3 professor nominated her for 
the award based on a project that she 
worked on for the class. She added 
that the scholarship will ease the 
burden of tuition. 
“It was definitely an honor to 
get the award and be celebrated and 
recognized, ” Davis said. “ And the 
money is really helpful — I’m really 
grateful for it. ” 
After the brunch came to a close, 
UCSD students were invited to the 
Cross-Cultural Center for a smaller-
scale discussion with Glover.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ORMARCH 2, 20 16
Students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents can submit the FAFSA online at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA, 
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:www.fafsa.ed.gov
  
 If you have not yet completed your 2015 tax return, estimate the amounts and then 
update your estimates once your tax returns are filed.  FAFSA filers can update using the 
IRS Data Retrieval tool via FAFSA on the web.  California Dream Act Application can 
update your estimates at www.CalDreamAct.org .
   
FINANCIAL AID 2016-17REAPPLY FOR
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or 
California Dream Act Application is:
Use UCSD school co de 00131700 .
Use UCSD school code 001317. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 534-4480.LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Sunday, Feb. 21
3:21 a.m. Drunk Driving.
Report of adult male motorist who 
crashed into tree and is attempting to 
restart car. Closed by adult arrest.
1:51 p.m. Information.
Report of small dog left inside vehicle 
for last two hours.  Information.
10:45 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party’s mother received 
suspicious phone call from person 
claiming to be from UCSD and 
requesting money. Service provided.
11:21 p.m. Information.
Reporting party reserved space for 
event, but concerned about not 
receiving confirmation of reservation. 
Information.
Monday, Feb. 22
1:47 a.m. Noise Disturbance.
Ye l l i n g .  Will cooperate.
2:13 a.m. Noise Disturbance.
Sound of ball being thrown against 
wall. Gone on arrival.
12:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Vandalism To 
Vehicle.
Unknown suspect(s) used unknown 
object to scratch victim’s car, damage 
$400. Report taken.
10:21 p.m. Medical Aid.
Patient having an allergic reaction to 
MRI. Referred to other agency.
Unknown time. V andalism/Petty Theft.
Unknown suspect(s) dismantled 
and removed heart monitor grips 
from gym equipment, loss $175. 
Report taken.
Tuesday, Feb. 23
5:07 p.m. Disturbance — Argument.
Report of male standing in front of 
female’s car and refusing to let her 
drive away, eventually both subjects left parking lot in different vehicles. 
Closed by adult arrest.
4:36 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Ice-cream truck parked in front of 
school. Cancelled.
9:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Vandalism.
Unknown suspect(s) vandalized a 
concrete trash can, damage $400.  
Report taken.
Wednesday, Feb. 24
11:41 a.m. Information.
Officer not responding to radio or 
phone. Checks OK.
3:17 p.m. Information.
Reporting party upset because of an 
aggressive dog going up to people. 
Information.
3:49 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party is continually getting 
emails from subject not in her class, 
subject also comes to office looking 
for her. Service provided.
Thursday, Feb. 25
1:05 p.m. Petty Theft.
Target E‐gift card stolen by unknown 
subject. Service provided.
1:49 p.m. Fire.
Female called from callbox and 
advised there was a fire, did not 
respond to further questions.  
Checks OK.
3:45 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Regarding incident form 2/24/2016 
of subject continuously emailing 
reporting party and showing up at her 
office. Service provided.
4:42 p.m. Medical Aid.
Female with high fever, vomiting. 
Transported to hospital.
— JACKY  TO 
News EditorGlover Participated in a Discussion with Students After the Brunch 
Roben Calls for More Teams from Social Sciences and Humanities▶ SCHOLARSHIP ,  from page 1
Maria Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu   
Lauren Hol t   ▶ CONTEST,  from page 14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESUC PRESIDENT JANET NAPOLITANO’S DECISION TO INSTALL A NEW UC SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM COMES AT THE 
EXPENSE OF TAXPAYER DOLLARS, WITHIN THE BALLPARK OF FOUR TO SIX MILLION DOLLARS PER UC CAMPUS.How-To 
Guru: 
Live Off
the Grid
 UCSD students are wild 
creatures: nocturnal, emotionless 
and generally wearing trademark 
dark circles and eye bags so stubborn 
you could brew tea with them. 
Many even theorize that we think 
in ones and zeros. Decomposing in 
the computer science dungeon and 
hiding addicting energy drinks while 
our friends somehow manage to 
escape campus horizons is a pretty 
average day. However, with recent 
increase in surveillance security and 
breaches in privacy on our personal 
devices, it’s become increasingly 
clear that energy drinks aren’t the 
only thing I need to hide from sight 
(just kidding, NSA!). Here are some 
tips and tricks to help you protect 
your personal life — or whatever you 
call binge watching “Breaking Bad” 
on Netflix and then complaining 
incessantly about how little time 
there is for all your obligations.
In order to efficiently achieve 
total privacy from UC Surveillance, 
Thoreau away all your materialistic 
belongings and spend the rest 
of your days venturing Into the 
Wild. Channel your inner Chris 
McCandless. In fact, feel free to 
follow his footsteps and jump 
right into the Alaskan wilderness 
without shelter, food or water. 
While you attempt to not die, make 
sure to achieve absolute peace by 
getting as far away from human 
civilization as possible. Don’t take 
anyone with you. People suck. You 
know it, I know it. People are awful, 
persnickety things. Maybe take 
a dog, though. Who knows, you 
might get lonely once you lose your 
Snapchat streak.
If you’re not a rich, attractive 
white man like Chris McCandless, 
and you can’t afford to leave 
everything behind, look into living 
an absolutely normal life, just 
without any technology. Embrace 
the Amish lifestyle. For example, 
instead of your car, adopt horse-
and-buggy transportation. It’s 
the perfect way to protect your 
personal information from GPS 
tracking devices. I mean, sure, 
you might face some difficulties 
taking care of the horse’s needs 
with school and work, but it’s not 
even comparable to the struggle 
you face every day trying to find 
parking on campus. And let’s not 
even talk about the traffic driving 
home on holidays. I think we all 
know this is the right decision here. 
You could even save some money 
on electricity and appliances by 
churning your own butter. Food 
is expensive, and you know you’ve 
been spending too many dining 
dollars on $11 nut blends at the 
market. Y ou’re better than that.
Is your Internet history 
somewhere between “huh, that’s 
embarrassing” and “I would 
gleefully give up my firstborn child 
in order to have this demolished 
if it were taken from me”? Do you 
have a mild infatuation with Amish 
people? Did you take a Buzzfeed 
quiz that one time with your friends 
to figure out which “Parks and 
Recreation” character you are and 
you got Ron Swanson after only, 
like, five tries? If so, make use of 
these tips. In fact, go ahead and 
expose all your personal data before 
the government can claim it. Take 
the power into your own hands.Use of  Taxpayer Money is Necessary for Strong, Stable
Surveillance System that Secures Student Data
Janet Napolitano, president of the University of California, recently 
ordered the installation of a cybersecurity system across all UC campuses, 
failing to reveal this decision to faculty and students. But now that the San 
Francisco Chronicle has released further information about the cost of the 
system, which was conveniently left undisclosed, taxpayers are the ones who 
should be concerned. The security system at UC Berkeley by itself costs 
in the ballpark of  $4 to $6 million, according to the Chronicle. Take into 
account that the system is used at all 10 campuses, and this controversial 
security decision suddenly becomes a multi-million dollar investment. 
Had the decision to install the security system been put to debate and 
agreed upon prior to being enacted, taxpayers might not be so concerned. 
But as California residents are paying millions of dollars worth of 
cybersecurity for which many don’t even see a valid purpose, the debates 
against Napolitano’s decision are clearly justified. Moreover, few officials 
involved in the decision even understood the full scope of what Napolitano’s 
security would involve — such as the system’s cost, the extent of the security 
and how it potentially invades the privacy of all students and faculty on UC 
campuses. Her rash decision couldn’t have been less transparent.
Had these funds been put to use elsewhere, taxpayers’ money could 
have been applied toward aiding students through additional scholarships, 
lowered tuition costs, improved education or beneficial public services. 
According to the University of California website, over 120,000 students 
received $2 billion in gift aid last year. But for the rest of the 118,000 
students, including those who are out-of-state and ineligible for most of the 
UC scholarships despite their increased tuition, more scholarship money 
and lowered tuition costs could mean an entirely new opportunity for a 
debt-free future. 
As taxpayers continue to be uninvolved in such drastic decisions as 
the one recently made by Napolitano, it becomes more and more crucial 
for citizens to be involved in the applications of their tax money. While 
spying on students and limiting their access to education may have been the 
perfect choice in Napolitano’s eyes, the rest of the tax-paying public and UC 
student body are likely to disapprove of that decision.
 — EMILY COLLINS
                              Staff WriterTaxpayer Mone y Ir responsibl y Spent on Sur v eillance 
System Instead of  Student Tuition and Public Services
It has been discovered that the University of California is monitoring 
emails traveling through the UC system, and like any revelation about 
cyber privacy, it has sparked a furious discussion that will die out in 
a couple of months after nothing changes. While it is fair to complain 
about the system’s existence itself being private, that complaint doesn’t 
make the decision to implement said system, which protects the social 
security numbers of millions at the cost of email privacy for a few hundred 
thousand, a wrong one. 
UC President Janet Napolitano used an undisclosed amount of taxpayer 
money to implement a system of web scanners after cyber attacks on the 
UCLA Health System compromised the information of 4.5 million patients. 
People like knowing how the money they pay is spent, even if they’ve 
literally never had any direct control over said spending, since that’s not 
how taxation works. The problem with people having a say in how their 
(former) money is spent is that people aren’t a homogenous group. For 
example, part of school funding comes from property taxes. Those in areas 
with above-average property taxes would obviously want said funds to go to 
local schools, while those in areas with lower-than-average property taxes 
would want funds to be distributed throughout the state. 
Regardless of where one stands on the issue, the fact that each group 
would clearly prefer the action which would most benefit itself is why 
public institutions don’t have referendums on funding, as funds would 
become even more bogged down in a sort of mob bureaucracy, while also 
be at risk to falling prey to majority rule.
The same logic applies to security. Students may not like the system 
due to the invasion of privacy, but those with medical records in the UC 
system might appreciate the added security, and since the system is paid 
for with tax dollars, it’s mostly non-students who are funding the security 
system. This security system is clearly for the greater good, and students 
should be well aware that this system’s impact reaches far beyond their 
campuses to the people who have more important things than school 
emails to protect.
 — AHMAD ALJA W AD
                   Staff Writer
 See KESHA, page 5When Kesha lost a legal case with her music producer Dr . 
Luke, this revealed how women are often valued less than men 
and corporate power in the eyes of  the law.BY MEGAN MONGES // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANGTHE  F AUL T  IN  OUR 
LEGAL  SY STEM
Seven years ago, Kesha Rose Sebert burst onto the mainstream music 
scene with her debut single, “Tik Tok. ” Known for her club-style 
voice and catchy lyrics, Kesha took pop radio by storm. In front of 
the cameras and her fans, Kesha appeared to be living an extraordinary 
life. Her secret nightmare has only recently been shared with the public. 
In October 2014, Kesha filed a lawsuit in order to void her contract with 
Sony and Dr. Luke (Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald)’s subsidiary recording 
label, Kemosabe Records. She alleges that in their ten-year working 
relationship, Dr. Luke abused Kesha sexually and emotionally, causing her 
to enter a rehab facility in 2013. Last Friday, New Y ork Supreme Court 
Justice Shirley Kornreich denied Kesha’s request for an injunction that 
would allow her to record with other record companies while the lawsuits 
are being handled in court. Fans and other musical artists have come to 
Kesha’s defense, arguing that nobody should be forced to work with their 
rapist. The controversy involving Kesha is not an isolated incident. Time 
and time again, we see the sexist power held by the media in the film, 
television and particularly the music industry. Contracts that place women 
in positions where their own personal safety is secondary to maximizing a 
company’s profit are extremely dangerous.
Kesha’s contract requires her to complete six more albums for 
Kemosabe Records, effectively making her work with her alleged rapist 
for a number of upcoming years. Although Sony has argued that it would allow Kesha to finish out her contract working with another producer, 
it is evident that they would do little to promote her albums due to the 
negative publicity from this lawsuit. Like many other female artists, Kesha 
is at the mercy of her recording company. These companies and their 
producers have complete control of the artists — including how they dress 
and what they sing. Kesha was only eighteen years old when she signed 
her original contract with Sony. Talented young artists enter into contracts 
with powerful companies, looking to catch their “big break” but leading to 
many unforeseen consequences. These large-scale corporations, like Sony, 
are largely headed by men. Male executives have the power and ability to 
control their employees, leaving many women powerless and vulnerable 
to sexual harassment and assault. Additionally, power is being exhorted 
by the judiciary system, leaving courts and judges to interpret the value of 
these women’s rights as less than the corporations’ .
This case can draw comparisons to the sexual abuse scandal involving 
comedian Bill Cosby in 2014. In that case, more than fifty women came 
forward, claiming that Cosby assaulted them from the late 1960s to the 
mid 2000s. Kesha and Cosby’s victims were ridiculed in the media for 
not coming forward with their allegations promptly. It’s as if the crime 
somehow didn’t occur  just because the victims failed to report the crime 
immediately. Originally, these women’s allegations were depicted as 
malicious lies; the media could not believe that a man as beloved as “Dr. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Explore the art of science 
and cinema through 
over 20 demonstrations, 
presentations, and 
performances by virtual 
reality industry leaders and 
international artists.
Tickets on sale now!
Half Day Pass:
$20 General Admission
$5 UCSD student
All Day Pass:
$35 General Admission
$10 UCSD StudentMAY 7, 2016
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Meccore
String
QuartetPROGRAM
HAYDN   
String Quartet in C Major, Op. 50, No. 2
SZYMANOWSKI  
String Quartet No. 1 in C Major, Op. 37
SIBELIUS  String Quartet in D Minor, 
Op. 56 “Voces intimae”
Friday, March 4, at 8 pm
UC San Diego’s Department of 
Music’s Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
Tickets: $36–54; $12 UCSD Students
Noura Mint 
Seymali
Mixing Afropop with psychedelia and  
desert blues with raggae, Noura Mint  
Seymali drives the legacy forward as  
one of Mauritania’s most 
adventurous young artists.  
Thursday, March 3, at 8 pm
Price Center East Ballroom
Tickets: $30; $12 UCSD Student
artpower.ucsd.edu
858.534.TIXS“a modernising, transformative force in Mauritanian music.” —The Guardian
Huxtable” could ever be a rapist. It was 
only when Cosby admitted to using 
date rape drugs like quaaludes that 
the women were taken seriously. This 
is yet another example of the power 
that influential men in entertainment 
industry have over female artists. 
Many of Cosby’s alleged victims were 
actresses who believed the well-liked 
comedian could help their careers.
Kesha’s stay in a rehab facility 
in 2013 for an eating disorder, 
stemming from the abuse she 
suffered at the hands of Dr. Luke, 
pushed Kesha away from the public 
eye and into a private sphere. This 
shows a large divide between the public and private realms of women’s 
rights. The fight for equality has been 
a fixture in the public’s eye in recent 
years. Women’s rights activists have 
encouraged other women to take 
a stand against the inequality they 
face daily. However, in the private 
sphere, women’s rights continue to 
be trampled. Women continue to be 
shamed for their sexual abuse and 
forced to remain silent. Unable to 
work with other record companies 
or producers, Kesha faded into 
obscurity. Her contract forced Kesha 
from the public to the private realm, a 
place where women have historically 
been oppressed. Kesha has pushed 
forward, confronting her accuser and 
the unfair working conditions set forth by Sony in her lawsuit. Judge 
Kornreich’s ruling has only succeeded 
in showing women around the world 
that they will remain powerless 
against large companies. 
Although it is true that Kesha 
knowingly entered into a contract 
which binds her to Sony, she should 
not be forced to work with someone 
who caused her physical and 
emotional harm. The public may 
never know what really happened 
between Dr. Luke and Kesha. 
However, the government should 
never make an artist choose between 
her work and her personal safety.Corporations such as Sony Maintain Sexist Power Structure in Contracts
▶ KESHA from page 4
MEGAN MONGESReaders can contact
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG mmonges@ucsd.eduSEE MORE AT  
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
I spy with my little eye...
University of California Office of the President attempts to balance security and privacy while walking 
the fine line of consent. The UCSD Guardian examines the recent cybersecurity  breaches that prompted 
the installation of hardware to monitor faculty computers. by James Lommer  // Staff Writer
Illustration by Christina Carlson
The boundaries that make up the framework of what 
information remains public and private have become 
blurred, confusing and, at times, completely unknown. 
As security breaches and digital attacks become increasingly 
relevant, so do the pervasive countermeasures put into place 
that attempt to thwart and prevent them. 
 Last summer, UCLA ’s medical center fell victim to a 
hacker attack on the health system’s computer network in 
which information on nearly 4.5 million patients, dating 
back to 1990, was subject to the breach. In the wake of 
these attacks, the University of California’s Office of the 
President implemented reactionary measures, resulting in the 
installation of computer hardware capable of monitoring data 
sent across the UC system.
These implementations have sparked a fair amount of 
controversy among a subset of UC faculty members. Considering 
the sizable UCLA breach, the thought of an increase in security 
is not an outwardly farfetched or unusual idea. In fact, it is not 
a matter of these changes being applied that is causing debate. 
Rather, it is the manner in which they have been carried out that 
seats itself as the source of many concerns.
UCOP Media Specialist Kate Moser stated that the device 
was a precautionary measure to prevent another set of 
cyberattacks.
“[University of California] has taken steps to protect 
sensitive data that is entrusted to our campuses and other 
locations, ” Moser told the UCSD Guardian. “The system 
identifies malware so that we can be prepared and guard the 
sensitive data of our UC community — from faculty to staff to 
students to patients and beyond — from cyber threats. ”
Meanwhile, the lines between safety and privacy are 
converging, and consent hangs in the balance between them.
“What has upset a lot of the faculty was that the 
surveillance was put into place without consulting the faculty, ” 
Benjamin Hermalin, chairman of the UC Berkeley Academic 
Senate, said in a statement to the San Francisco Chronicle. 
“In fact, the people installing the system were under strict instructions not to reveal it was taking place. ”
Ethan Ligon, a member of UC Berkeley’s Senate-
Administration Joint Committee on Campus Information 
Technology, outlined the details of what he calls a “serious 
violation of shared governance” to fellow faculty members.
“The intrusive device is capable of capturing and analyzing 
all network traffic and has enough local storage to save over 
30 days of all this data, ” Ligon stated in an email to UC 
Berkeley faculty. “This can be presumed to include your email, 
all the websites you visit and all the data you receive from off 
campus or data you send off campus. ”
UCOP defended its actions by claiming it was advised 
by legal counsel in anticipation of lawsuits from victims of 
the UCLA attacks. Despite this, UCOP media officials are 
limited in what information they can share regarding the 
recent spyware changes because of the on-going lawsuits. 
However, in an open statement, UCOP did go on to note that 
it has no interest in monitoring anyone’s personal emails or 
information — a response many found inadequate.
“[UCOP] further promise not to invade our privacy 
unnecessarily, while at the same time implementing systems 
designed to do exactly that, ” Ligon continued in an email 
to UC Berkeley faculty. “It is very far from clear that UCOP 
has a better plan or better qualified IT security people or 
infrastructure than does the Berkeley campus, and they’ve 
shut these qualified people out of the picture. ”
Following the disgruntled thoughts of many UC faculty, 
UC Chief Operating Officer Rachel Nava issued a letter in 
response to many of the complaints.
“I understand that some faculty members may be 
concerned about storage and use of data collected through 
network security analysis, including questions about data 
being used by the university for other, unrelated purposes, ” 
Nava stated in her letter. “However, UC policy forbids the use 
of such data for non-security purposes. ”
In the brief two months that have passed since the topic first 
materialized, the debate has been next to endless and substantial 
See SPYWARE , page 8FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
In spring, Audrey’s Cafe is set to join Geisel Library providing students with Fair Trade coffee and 
snacks. The UCSD Guardian talked with University Librarian Brian Schottlaender about Audrey’s and 
other projects in Geisel’s future.An everpresent bastion of UCSD, Geisel Library and it’s unique 
architecture are accredited to the creativity of the architects 
William L. Pereira & Associates and the generous donation 
of Audrey Geisel, wife of the late Theodore Geisel. 
by Tia Ikemoto  // Contributing WriterCompiled by Tina Butoiu and Oliver KeltonDesigned by Allison KuboPhoto by Christian Duarte The    life   of   the   Librar y
One year ago, the UCSD Guardian met with University Librarian Brian 
Schottlaender to talk about the role he plays in maintaining one 
of UCSD’s most iconic buildings, Geisel Library. In the interview, 
Schottlaender revealed plans first conceived in Fall Quarter 2015 to build a cafe 
inside Geisel. With the new coffee shop, Audrey’s, which is slated to open this 
spring, Geisel Library is about to witness the first of several renovation plans 
meant to bring the library into the new era of modern technology.
“I’ve wanted to open a cafe in Geisel Library for many years, and others — 
including our students — have also wanted this, ” Schottlaender told the Guardian.
Following a generous donation of $3 million from Audrey Geisel, wife of the 
library’s namesake, Theodore Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, Schottlaender 
began developing plans for a multilevel update of the building.
The grand opening of Audrey’s, scheduled for early May, will give students 
and faculty a chance to honor Audrey Geisel, who, according to Schottlaender, 
“has continued to support the Library and the campus over the years — 
wholeheartedly as well as financially. ”
“While Ted’s legacy here is well-established, ” Schottlaender continued, “I 
thought that with this naming we could honor Audrey and all the amazing things 
she has done for us. ”
Schottlaender and Sports Facilities, which will be managing the cafe, originally 
mentioned a desire to partner with local businesses and to incorporate sustainable 
practices into the new cafe. The vision is set to become a reality: A recent 
announcement said that Audrey’s coffee, tea and food will be supplied by two local businesses, Cafe Virtuoso and Bread & Cie.
Cafe Virtuoso is a Solana Beach-based coffee roaster whose mission is “to 
procure, roast and deliver the best quality coffee in San Diego. ” It offers dozens of 
coffee varieties from South America and Africa as well as a small array of unique 
teas. In addition, all of its products are also Fair Trade and organic. The company 
began in 2007 in a garage-sized lot and were committed to promoting responsible 
business practices from the start. Their vision eventually led to their co-founding 
of Fair Trade San Diego, an organization that aims to educate students and San 
Diegans about Fair Trade practices while promoting local businesses. 
Students will be able to enjoy their coffee with a variety of baked goods 
and sandwiches from Bread & Cie. Located in Hillcrest, and open 364 days a 
year, the bakery was started by Charles Kaufman, a New Yorker who wrote and 
directed “B-list” horror films before turning to bread making. Kaufman prides 
himself in opening the first artisan-bread bakery in San Diego; Bread & Cie’s 
breads take days to prepare, using Old World European methods of dough rising. 
Furthermore, Kaufman donates all leftover food to local San Diego homeless 
groups and women’s shelters at the end of every work day. 
In addition to the cafe, Audrey Geisel’s donation will fund further 
improvements to Geisel’s second floor, including new research spaces, a 
revitalized lobby, technology enhancements and upgraded furniture and finishes 
throughout the floor. Some of these changes, such as new carpets and additional 
computers, have already been integrated into the east wing of Geisel’s second 
floor, with the rest to be completed after Audrey’s Cafe opens. However, this is not 
See AUDREY , page 8William L. P ereira & Associates is ask ed to design 
UCSD ’s Central Librar y. The firm chooses an 
elevated spheroid shape because it “allo ws 
for a high de gree of  flexibility in the 
organization of  the collection and does 
not rely on elev ators for circulation 
within the book stac ks.”
The campus begins mo ving 
books into the new Central 
Librar y, the iconic building that  
would later be renamed Geisel Libra ry.1965
1970
The Un iversity Libra ry is renamed for T heodor Seuss Geisel 
("Dr. Seuss") foll owing a $20 million gift from A udrey 
Geisel. T he Mandeville Special Collections Libra ry 
within is the primar y reposito ry for original Dr . Seuss 
materials , containing more than 10,000 works and 
memorabilia .1995
“In celebration of  100 years of  
Dr. Seuss , a bronze statue of  Dr. 
Seuss and one of  his most memorable 
characters , the Cat in the Hat, is u nveiled 
at Geisel Libra ry.”2004
UC San Dieg o Libraries celebrate the acquisition 
of their three- millionth v olum e. Today, the 
Libraries pro vide access to more than 
seven million digital and print v olume s, 
journals and multimedia materials
UC San Dieg o libraries par tners with Google 
to digitize its collection, becoming the first 
to do so in Southe rn Califo rnia.2008
Audrey Geisel donated more 
than 1,500 materials from Dr . 
Seuss’ personal arc hive to the libra ry. 
Among them were sev eral unpublished 
works including “Cat Ballooning” and 
“The Pet Sho p.”2014
Welcoming Audrey to Geisel Library8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
CHECK OUT OUR 
CONTENT ONLINE
issuu.com/ucsdguardian
Full PDF Issues Available
NEWS - OPINION
FEATURES - LIFESTYLE
 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
CROSSWORD - SPORTS where Schottlaender’s vision for 
Geisel Library ends. 
“Our primary motivation in 
refurbishing the interior public 
spaces of Geisel Library is to bring 
things up to a level that meets 
the current and ever-evolving 
needs of our students and faculty, ” 
Schottlaender told the Guardian.
 To achieve this, the 
Schottlaender also intends to 
renovate the first and eighth floors 
of Geisel Library, which will cost 
a total of $4 million. However, 
funding still needs to be obtained 
for the additional projects.
According to the Geisel Library 
Revitalization Initiative page on 
the library website, the first-floor 
update will turn the space into 
a “high-end Media & Digital 
Scholarship Commons, ” complete 
with “new data and visualization 
technologies” and new furniture 
and finishes. This has partially 
begun with addition of the Digital 
Media Lab in Fall 2015.
The eighth-floor project seeks 
to transform part of Geisel’s top 
level into a sky lounge that can host 
special events displaying stunning 
views of UCSD’s campus along with 
“enhanced study spaces.”
While Schottlaender is excited 
about both projects, further details will not be announced until 
Audrey’s Cafe is completed.
Schottlaender encourages 
students to check out the Geisel 
Revitalization page below for more information on the projects slated 
to improve the library’s spaces.
“The Geisel building is 
spectacular on the outside, ” 
Schottlaender said. “I think our students deserve an equally 
amazing interior that provides 
them with the technology tools and 
flexible spaces they need to excel in 
their studies and research. ”Find out more about future 
projects at http://library.ucsd.edudivides will likely remain. While 
many of the voiced opinions have 
carried an alarmist tone, as many do 
in conversations of this theme, it is 
important to note that these measures 
are often implemented for good 
reasons as well.
“The UCLA attack, while 
exceptional in some respects, is a 
part of an increasing trend of cyber 
attacks against research universities 
and health care systems, ” Nava noted. “In recognition of these 
realities, President Napolitano has 
initiated a series of systemwide 
actions to strengthen the University’s 
ability to prevent, detect and respond 
to such attacks. ”
However, in spite of UCOP’s 
security efforts, another 80,000 
students, alumni and employees had 
their financial data hacked on Dec. 
28. The attack, which targeted the 
Berkeley Financial System, mostly 
affected people who had received 
electronic fund transfers, according to UC Berkeley spokeswoman 
Janet Gilmore.  Though the attack 
occurred two months ago, UC 
Berkeley waited until concluding its 
forensic investigation into the attack 
to alert those affected.
Cybersecurity is a growing 
concern for many schools, which 
can be easy and lucrative targets for 
attacks. However, the methods used 
to combat hacking and breaches 
continue to evolve. Paul Rivers, UC 
Berkeley’s chief information security 
officer, spoke to the San Francisco Chronicle about his investigation of 
the security breach.
“We must find a way to [stop 
security breaches], even though 
we’re in the process of patching this 
system, ” Rivers told the Chronicle. 
“We need to be even faster about 
getting these [fixes] deployed. ”
While security on its own is 
important for administrators, 
Rivers emphasized that maintaining 
clear channels of communication 
throughout the UC system.
“We [looked] at all the available evidence of what the attackers did, 
and as we looked at that, we don’t see 
any evidence that these are the kinds 
of attackers that did access the data, 
or did anything to take that data, ” 
Rivers told the Chronicle. “However, 
in an abundance of caution, we don’t 
want to depend on our judgment 
alone. We want to be transparent and 
[let people] make their own choice 
on how they should respond. ”
University Librarian Plans To Renovate First and Eighth Floors When More Funding is Available
▶ AUDREY,  from page 7▶ SPYWARE,  from page 6UCB Students and Faculty Suffered Another Cybersecurity Breach in Late December, Financial Data Hacked
Tia Ikemoto   tikemoto @UCsd.edu      READER CAN CONTACTJames Lommer   Jlommer@uCsd.edu      READER CAN CONTACTCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ARTPOWER PRESENTS  NOURA MINT SEYMALI
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOMTHURSDAY 3.03 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 29 - MAR 62016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY in The GuardianCalenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@ucsdguardian.orgMON2.29 WED3.02 TUE3.01
11am
ART & SOUL: DOODLE ART PATTERNS - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials provided. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served.
5pm
JOHN HOLDREN, OSTP: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND 
INNOVATION - ROTH AUDITORIUM, SANFORD CONSORTIUM
The UC Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, the School 
of Global Policy and Strategy, and the Jacobs School of 
Engineering present the Fifth Herb York Memorial Lecture: 
Science, Technology, and Innovation for the Economy, the 
Environment, and National Security, featuring Dr. John P . 
Holdren, Director, White House Office of Science and 
Technology Policy. Based on his experience as President 
Obama's Science Advisor, Holdren will discuss how priorities 
and policies for science, technology, and innovation have been 
developed under Obama; how specific challenges and 
opportunities relating to ST&I for economic prosperity, 
environmental sustainability, and national security have been 
approached; and the role that partnerships across the public, 
private, academic, and civil-society sectors and across nations 
have played and must continue to play.
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 5:00 
PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the Zone at zone@ucsd.edu11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body weight, 
percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. 
One free assessment per quarter is available to registered 
UCSD students. For more information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about professional 
career objectives and goal setting so you can be more 
successful in obtaining your career goals. 
5pm
CITYYEAR WORKSHOP - PC WEST, BEAR ROOM
Come experience a professional development workshop 
presented by City Year. City Year is an organization that is 
working to bridge the gap in high-poverty communities 
between the support the students in the communities 
actually need and what their schools are designed to provide 
across the nation. The workshop is in partnership with 
EducationCorps at UCSD, which sends out tutors from UCSD 
all over the San Diego community.
5pm
MUJER MARIPOSA SCREENING AND MYTHOS OF THE SELF 
WRITING WORKSHOP - ARTSPACE, CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Join the Cross-Cultural Center and UCSD alumnus Diana 
Cervera for a screening of her multimedia project, Mujer 
Mariposa: Womyn on the Periphery. Diana will also follow the 
screening with a writing workshop, Mythos of the Self: 
Reclaiming our place in the cosmos. 
Diana Cervera is an interdisciplinary artist fusing theatre, 
spoken word, music and film as her mediums of expression. 
She is the founder and director of In LakEch, Tu Eres Mi Otro 
Yo,(You are my other self) and Mujer Monologues multi 
disciplinary theatre projects featuring original work by artists 
of color. In lak Ech was sparked at UCSD in response to lack 
of representation and diversity, it continues to provide space 
for the voices of students of color on campus.
FRI3.04
UCSD TRIO OUTREACH PROGRAMS HIRING FOR THE SUMMER - 
ONLINE
In preparation for our Summer Residential Program at UCSD, 
we at UCSD TRiO Outreach Programs (Upward Bound) are 
hiring students to Tutors or Resident Assistants for our 
program! Our goal is to prepare students to successfully 
complete high school, transition to the college of their choice 
and succeed in graduating with a college degree. UCSD TRiO 
Upward Bound Summer Program brings onto campus first 
generation, high school students from low income backgrounds 
for 3 weeks during the summer. During the Summer Program, 
students immerse themselves in the college experience here at 
UCSD. The positions we have open over the summer are for 
Residential Assistants (RA) and Tutors. Students interested can 
apply using Port Triton by March 4th. 10am
FITNESS ZONE: PLANK IT UP PILATES - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Challenge your core, upper body, lower body, and balance with this 
fundamental Pilates workout. You will flow through beginning to intermediate 
Pilates sequences and build your stability and strength with fun variations of 
planks. (HINT: Combine with High Voltage HIIT or Cardio Moves BLT for a 
complete cardio/core/strength workout.)
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food vendors since 2004! The 
UCSD Farmers' Market is held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, between the Student 
Services Center and the Chancellor's Complex.
1pm
VALUES-BASED CAREER PLANNING - WARREN COLLEGE 
ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 3
Part of iLead Program (Must be a registered participant to attend): "The 
Values-Based Career Planning workshop will give students the opportunity to 
identify their top 5 values through a visual process using values cards, and 
provide a space for self-reflection, collaboration and professional 
development." Presented by Leanna Biddle, Graduate Intern, Career Services 
Center
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad! Questions? 
Contact The Zone at zone@ucsd.edu
THU3.03
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can:  Gain greater mental clarity, 
Achieve a peaceful state of being, Learn techniques to de-stress, Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance
10am
ONE HUNDRED MINDS OF UCSD- LIBRARY WALK
UCSD ICRA presents… One Hundred Minds of UCSD. Come out to library walk 
on March 3rd and 4th to join your fellow Tritons in acknowledging the realities of 
mental health issues on campus. Express solidarity and show your support for 
all of us who struggle to navigate college life with mental illnesses. UCSD ICRA 
meets Wednesdays at 8:17 PM at ERC/I-House's Asante 123C. Attend our 
meetings to find out how you can get involved in planning all-campus events for 
UCSD residents! Connect with us! Facebook: UCSD ICRA
Twitter: @ucsdicra
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
JCome de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone!6pm
TAIWANESE NIGHT MARKET - LIBRARY WALK
Never tried Taiwanese food before? Well, YOU DEFINITELY SHOULD! Everyone knows 
that local Taiwanese dishes are the best! This year, UTA is again bringing back a 
variety of Taiwanese cuisines in a traditional Night Market event! Come join UTA on 
this food adventure and experience our Taiwanese cultures!
6:30pm
ACTIVE MINDS AND KAIBIGANG PILIPIN@ ON MENTAL HEALTH - 
PRICE CENTER THEATRE 
Active Minds and Kaibigang Pilipin@ are partnering to spotlight mental health in the 
Filipino culture. Together, we want to fight the silence surrounding the topic of mental 
health. We will have Ginger Armas Ph.D., a CAPS post doc fellow and first generation 
Filipina-American, speak on the significance of mental health. There will also be a 
student panel reflecting on their experiences with mental health and Filipino culture. 
Oh, and did I mention there will be free food? Join us for a night of cultural and 
mental health awareness.
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS NOURA MINT SEYMALI- PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM
One of Mauritania's young celebrities, Noura Mint Seymali is a griot 
(storyteller/cultural historian/ culture bearer)from a celebrated musical family who 
began her career at age 13. Noura Mint Seymali mixes Afropop with psychedelia and 
desert blues with reggae as she drives the legacy forward as one of Mauritania's 
most adventurous young artists. Tickets: $30; $12 UCSD StudentSAT3.05
8:30am
UIS PRESENTS: 11TH ANNUAL FINANCIAL HORIZONS 
CONFERENCE- UCSD RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Calling All Students Interested in Business, Investments, and 
Finance! The Undergraduate Investment Society invites you to 
the 11th Annual Financial Horizons Conference on Saturday, 
March 5th. Our keynote speakers will be Dr. Ken Kroner Global 
Head of Multi Asset Strategies at BlackRock as well as Jim 
Moffatt at Deloitte Consulting, as well as speakers from 
leading companies such as Facebook, Morgan Stanley, Duff 
and Phelps, PwC, RA Capital Advisors, William Blair, Altegris, 
BDO, and many more! Don't miss out on UCSD's largest and 
most reputable business conference of the year. This is your 
chance to network with representatives from top companies in 
the business and finance industry. Come and join us for a 
FREE full-day event of speaker series, food and networking!
7pm
THE VENETIAN TWINS- MANDELL WEISS THEATER
When twin brothers Zanetto, the eccentric millionaire from the 
mountains, and Tonino, the charismatic romantic from the city, 
arrive in Verona unbeknownst to each other; so does intrigue, 
confusion and chaos. In this highly physical production about 
mistaken identities, which incorporates the masks and 
tomfoolery of the Italian commedia dell'arte, audiences will 
experience how these dangerously desired visitors become 
family. Jesca Prudencio, an MFA Director at UCSD's Dept. of 
Theatre & Dance, directs this laugh out loud comedy with 
original music at the Weiss Theater at La Jolla Playhouse!10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Split second
 6 High crags
 10 Tramp
 14 Liquid measure
 15 Aid in a felony
 16 Building branches
 17 Close, in poetry
 18 Crazy
 19 Dregs
 20 Financial TV personage
 23 O.J. ’s judge
 24 Auricular
 25 Financial TV personage
 30 Prefix for a hydrate?
 34 Declare
 35 Dad’s love
 36 Direct sales
 37 Bird’s beak
 38 Boat basins
 40 Rumsfeld’s old org.
 41 Of the ankle
 43 LIRR destination
 44 Weighty book
 45 Texas shrine
 46 Financial TV personage
 48 Chef Rombauer
 50 Inventor Whitney
 51 Financial TV personage
 58 Hoodwink
 59 Where puts and calls trade in IL
 60 Exclude
 61 Encourage
 62 Split apart
 63 Writer Zola
 64 Highway
 65 Keats output
 66 Heated argumentDown
 1 Newborn horse
 2 Moon goddess
 3 From the top
 4 More frightening
 5 Where attachments are attached?
 6 After-shower powder
 7 Orchestra member
 8 Calculate
 9 Nero Wolfe’s creator
 10 She-devil
 11 Imitation butter
 12 Huffed and puffed
 13 Forerunner of the CIA
 21 Typical
 22 Chops up
 25 December VIP
 26 Of part of the eye
 27 Striped equine
 28 African nat.
 29 Essential acid
 31 Heaviest noble gas
 32 Ecological region
 33 Of times gone by
 36 Noise
 38 New Zealand Polynesian
 39 “Bill __, the Science Guy”
 42 Smiled smugly
 44 Roman galley
 46 Poked
 47 Slurs over
 49 Large: pref.
 51 Spanish painter Joan
 52 Pond scum
 53 Top-drawer
 54 Cerise and crimson
 55 Death notice, briefly
 56 Brewer’s grain
 57 Popular cookie
 58 Prickly huskBIKES
Fixie Bike - $250. Matte black and 
white fixie bike. Barely ridden. Comes 
with pump and bike lock. Listing ID: 
237287773 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
One Year Old Schwinn Bike - $100. Only 
rode three times. It is off road and 
street. Comes with helmet, carrying 
pouch and lock. Listing ID: 237287767 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
MGX Mongoose Mountain Bike - $200. 
Hard to find exact bike! Hand polished 
aluminum, new tires, dual suspension, 
extend rear end, rebuild gears. Don’t want to get rid of it but have to! Listing 
ID: 237287763 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Samsung Core Prime - $50. Smartphone. 
Samsung, Android, 8 GB. Camera on 
front and on the back. Nice images. 
Listing ID: 237903225 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
UE Mini Boom Bluetooth Speakers - 
$35. Barely used. Small but loud. 
Great Bluetooth speakers. Listing ID: 
237903224 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
80GB Black iPod - $85. In good condi -tion and easy to play music. Just need a 
charger cord and you’re ready to listen. 
Listing ID: 237903220 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Couch Sofa - $500. Moving out sale. 
Goose down couch and decorative pil -
lows. 7 ½ feet long. Washable cover. 
Listing ID: 237903261 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Beautiful High Top Table - $160. In ter -
rific condition! Comes with four match -
ing chairs. One chair is missing piece 
on bottom but still fully functional. Also 
comes with lazy Susan and has a built-
in sleeve to adjust table size. Listing ID: 
237903260 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Pop Up Work Table - $35. Light fold up 
work table. Sturdy and in great shape. 
Listing ID: 237903256 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O
P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
week  in
summar y
MEN'S
BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALLUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDSan Francisco State
San Francisco StateSonoma State 
Sonoma State 76 - 73
63 - 4062 - 64
75 - 62
SOFTBALL
4 2 3 11 1 0 2
Chico StateUCSDThe 17th-ranked UCSD softball 
team hosted Chico State in a four-game 
series played throughout Friday and 
Saturday. The Tritons produced their 
lowest-scoring outings of the season, 
falling short in three of the four games, 
albeit in low-scoring games where the 
margin of victory was no more than 
three runs. However, UCSD managed 
to grind out a win in the last game of 
the series and now holds a 14–6 overall 
record and an 8–4 in conference play.  
Game One
The Tritons struggled offensively 
throughout the game, having to wait 
until the last inning for their first hit but 
eventually gaining a bit of momentum 
during the last stretch. However, it was 
too late, as Chico State held on to earn 
a 4–1 win.
Chico State, from the start, grabbed 
ahold of the game, as it got on the board 
in the first inning through an RBI 
single from senior first base Desiree 
Gonzalez. Junior outfielder and first 
base Cyrena Taylor then followed through in the third inning with an 
RBI double to make the score 2–0.
A vital moment of the game 
occurred in the sixth inning, when 
the Tritons were able to get the bases 
loaded through walks alone. The 
game could have turned around in 
their favor, but unfortunately, senior 
shortstop McKenna Clewett struck out 
and sophomore first base Sam Glantz 
continued the downhill spiral with a fly 
ball to end the inning.
In the final inning, the Wildcats 
capitalized on the Tritons’ missed 
opportunities and scored two more 
to make it 4–0. However, UCSD  was 
able to finally record its first hit of the 
game, thanks to sophomore designated 
player Emily Sklencar, who hit a single 
to left field. Clewett brought some 
optimism when she hit an RBI double 
and gave the team a chance at a late 
comeback. However, with two outs 
gone, freshman outfielder Erin Lipelt 
struck out to end the game and give 
Chico State a 4–1 victory. 
Game Two
To continue the low-scoring affair, 
the Tritons came up short again in the final inning as they took another defeat 
to the hands of the Wildcats, 2–1.
Sophomore outfielder Kelsi Maday 
got UCSD off to a good start in the 
fourth inning as she single-handedly 
produced the first the score of the game; 
she stole second and, in the process of 
stealing third, Wildcats senior catcher 
Brynn Lesovsky attempted to throw 
her out but failed due to a bad throw, 
giving Maday the opportunity to 
round the bases.
Chico State quickly responded with 
a score of its own to draw level in the 
game through a Gonzalez ground ball, 
giving a chance for freshman infielder 
Rachel DeHart to run in from third.  
The Wildcats then captured the lead 
in the top of the seventh as freshman 
outfielder Ari Marsh got on base off a 
costly error from sophomore catcher 
Lauren Sanders. Marsh, consequently 
scored the game’s winning run 
moments after a ground ball was hit 
to senior left-handed pitcher Lexi 
Edwards, opening the opportunity 
for the run. While the Tritons started 
brightly, they were unable to replicate 
their magic at the end, which cost them 
a 2–1 defeat. 
Game Three 
A recurring theme of the series was 
UCSD failing to get going offensively, 
and the first game of the doubleheader 
on Saturday was no exception, as the 
Tritons were shutout 3–0.
Gonzalez was the standout player 
for Chico State, driving in two runs, 
one in the first and the other in 
the fifth, to give the Wildcats a 2–0 
advantage going into the final innings 
of the game.  
With the Tritons struggling for 
offense, the Wildcats added another run in the top of the seventh to give 
themselves a comfortable 3–0 lead.
UCSD gave itself a slight chance 
at turning its fortune around in the 
bottom of the seventh, having two 
on base with no outs after freshman 
second base and utility player Darian 
V an Der Maaten was walked and 
Clewett hit a single. But, once again, 
the Tritons could not make the most 
of their opportunities as the next three 
batters were retired to draw a close to 
the game.  
Game Four
With their backs against the walls 
after three consecutive defeats from 
Chico State, the Tritons were decisive 
in the final innings and pulled out a 
2–1 victory to avoid a sweep at home 
at the hands of their conference rivals.  
The Tritons earned the first run 
of the game in the first inning, as 
Sanders hit an RBI double to bring 
home Clewett.  
Chico State responded with 
hesitation in the following inning, this 
time due in part to a walk with the 
bases loaded that leveled the game at 
one a piece. 
UCSD proved to be decisive in the 
bottom of the sixth as they regained 
the lead through an RBI triple from 
freshman shortstop and third base 
Maddy Lewis. The 2–1 lead was 
enough to seal the victory in the 
seventh, as Edwards (6–3) helped get 
three consecutive outs, earning the win 
while pitching 3.0 innings of relief. 
UCSD will now head up north 
to Arcata, Calif. to take part in a 
four-game series and look to end the 
nine-game winning streak of a strong 
Humboldt State team on Friday and 
Saturday,  March 4–5. SOFTBALL
UCSD Loses Three Games To Rival Chico State 
Tritons offense can not get it going as they only score four runs in three games, look ahead to Humboldt State.
Readers can contact
daniel  Hernandez   dah043@ucsd.edu    BY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
staff writer
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Playoffs Next For Triton Basketball
Game OneNo. 19th UCSD squeaked out an overtime win against San Francisco 
State 76–73 Friday night in RIMAC Arena which kept the Tritons in 
the running for a share of the regular season conference title.
Initially, they were down by three points, with just 16 seconds left in the 
game, as sophomore guard Anthony Ballestero nailed a three-pointer to tie 
the game at 65 and send it into overtime. It was Ballestero’s fourth three-
pointer of the game and UCSD’s first overtime game of the season. 
With 2:35 left in the overtime period, freshman center Chris Hansen 
made a layup and was fouled but then converted the free throw to give UCSD 
a one-point lead at 70–69. Next, junior guard Aleks Lipovic hit a three-
pointer on the next possession to give the home team a four-point lead with 
1:58 left in the game. The Gators would cut the lead to two twice, but the 
Tritons held on for the win.
UCSD dominated the first half, as they would not trail for the entire first 
frame. The Tritons’ largest lead was 11 points, with junior guard Koree Cox 
drilling a three to put them up 30–19 with 3:06 left in the first half and ending 
up with 33–26 at halftime.
In the second half, San Francisco State would come all the way back and 
take the lead, going on a 6–0 run with 1:41 left in the game before Ballestero’s 
three-pointer.Hansen had a monster game, recording a career-high 27 points and 11 
rebounds. He shot 10–16 from the field and was a perfect 7–7 from the free 
throw line; in just 23 minutes, he had his fourth double-double of the season. 
Ballestero would add a career-high 12 points, all of which were three-
pointers. Sophomore guard Grant Jackson and junior guard Adam Klie 
had 10 points each as Klie would pitch in 13 rebounds and six assists for his 
fourth double-double of the season. 
San Francisco State dropped to 15–10 overall as senior forward Floyd 
Wormley had 21 points and eight rebounds; sophomore guard W arren 
Jackson would add 15 points and junior guard Treaven Duffy pitched in with 
13 of his own.
Game Two
The Tritons couldn’t finish their regular season with a win, as they 
fell to Sonoma State 64–62 at RIMAC Arena on Saturday night. With 
the loss, UCSD fell to 20–5 overall and finished in second place just 
behind Chico State. 
Senior forward Drew Dyer hit a three-pointer with 12:03 to give UCSD 
a 12-point lead, 47–35. But Sonoma State would slowly come back. Down 
by two, 58–56, with 1:49 left in the game,  senior guard David Ahem scored 
a three-pointer to give the Seawolves their first lead since the first half. 
UCSD would answer with a layup to take the lead for a short while, but the 
Seawolves would convert on a layup and ultimately hold on for the win.  
In his final regular-season game Dyer scored a game-high 16 points 
as Hansen would pitch in 10 of his own; Klie grabbed eight rebounds and 
dished out four assists. 
Sonoma State improved to 14–12 overall as they were led by senior 
forward James Slade’s 13 points while senior guard David Ahern added 10 
points and senior center Luke Cochran’s 11 rebounds were a game-high.
UCSD won the first matchup against Sonoma State 69–55 on Dec. 2 in 
Rohnert Park which was the last regular-season game for senior forward/
center Zach McMillan.
The Tritons will face Sonoma State again in just three days, as the 
two teams will play in the first round of the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Tournament. UCSD will host Sonoma State at 
RIMAC Arena on March 1st, tipping off at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday night. 
Tickets are available for purchase at $10 for general admission and $5 
for students, seniors and children.
The victors of the first-round games will advance to the semifinals at 
Stockton Arena on March 4th and championship game, also in 
Stockton, on March 5th.Over this past weekend, the UCSD women’s basketball 
team was able to make the most of Senior Night, 
as it defeated San Francisco State on Friday night 
and Sonoma State on Saturday night, marking its ninth 
consecutive win and also tying in a three-way for the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association regular season 
crown with Cal State Dominguez Hills (No. 1 seed) and Cal 
State East Bay (No. 3 seed). 
Game One
The Friday night win against San Francisco State was 
smooth sailing for the Tritons as they ended the night with 
their eighth-straight win on a 63–40 finish. As this was a 
CCAA matchup for the Tritons, they improved their regular 
season record to 22–3 as well as their CCAA conference 
record to 17–2. This pushed the Tritons up to a three-way 
tie for first place in the CCAA standings alongside Cal State 
Dominguez Hills and Cal State East Bay, with each team 
only having one game left to play on Saturday night. San 
Francisco State, however, fell to a 9–17 overall ranking and 
6–13 in CCAA ranking. 
The Tritons started off with an early 8–0 lead which 
they held for the majority of the game; the Gators took 
their only lead during the start of the second period 
with four points. This valiant effort didn’t accomplish 
much, however, as the Tritons were able to close out the 
half with an 18–3 run, ending the half at 34–20 in favor 
of the Tritons. This lead became even more pronounced 
during the second half, with the third period ending 
in 54–33. Nonetheless, the fourth quarter was limited 
offensively for both sides, with the Tritons only scoring 
nine points and the Gators only scoring seven.  
For the Tritons, this match was the return of junior 
forward Cassie MacLeod, who had missed the past 10 
games but managed to contribute four points and two assists 
during her 15. Senior forward Farrah Shokoor had another 
incredible game, as she marked her 15th double-double of 
the season, the same amount she recorded during her junior 
year, at the half with 17 points and 10 rebounds before she 
ended the game with 19 points and 13 rebounds. Redshirt 
sophomore guard Taylor Tanita followed behind with the 
second-most points for the Tritons, scoring 10 points and 
notching on seven assists. 
Game Two
Saturday night’s game was the last game of the 
Tritons’ regular season and was also on their Senior 
Night: the game that would determine if they would 
win the CCAA regular season. After the 75–62 win, the 
Tritons improved their overall record to 23–3 and their 
CCAA record to 18–2, which was matched by Cal State 
Dominguez Hills and Cal State East Bay; Sonoma State fell to a 10–19 overall record and 5–15 CCAA 
record. This is the fourth time the Tritons have 
won the regular season in the league, with the 
wins under their belt coming from 2008–09 
season, 2009–10 season, and 2011–12 season.
Before the game, Shokoor and fellow senior 
guard Jamie Katuna were honored on Senior Night 
as this was their last regular-season home game. After 
that, Shokoor put up another great performance with her 
16th seasonal double-double, beating her double-double 
mark from last season. Katuna also had a stellar game as she 
notched in 17 points herself. MacLeod followed them with 
a strong supporting performance by putting up 11 points 
off the bench. Aside from the stellar performances by the 
players, the Tritons also managed to have a better shooting 
percentage than the Seawolves, shooting a decent 51.8 
percent over the Seawolves’ 40 percent. 
The lead bounced back and forth between the two 
teams, with the Seawolves starting off the game with a 
small lead, which quickly dissipated as the Tritons overtook 
them to gain a 10–6 lead; the Seawolves then went on 13–4 
run which left the Tritons trailing 19–14 at the end of the 
opening quarter. After a timeout, and some teamwork, the 
Tritons were able to outscore the Seawolves and retake the 
lead, heading into halftime with a score of 35–31. 
The following half was just as nail-biting 
for both sides as the lead was again constantly 
changing and the quarter witnessed a tie five 
times; it ended with Katuna making a layup while 
being fouled and hitting the following free-
throw, giving the Tritons a 52–49 lead heading 
into the fourth. The fourth period, however, 
was a different story as the Tritons were able 
to dominate the period, kicking off with nine 
unanswered points, giving them an early 61–49 
lead. This lead only continued to increase as the 
Seawolves struggled to score, and the Tritons 
easily went on to win the game. 
“It feels great! We worked really hard and it’s 
something we have been looking forward to, ” 
Katuna told the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“It felt special to share this with Farrah, my co-
senior, and I’m hopeful that we still have a long 
season ahead of us. ”
After winning the regular season, the Tritons 
were placed as the second seed in the upcoming CCAA 
Tournament and on Tuesday, March 1st, they will host the 
seventh-seeded Cal Poly Pomona in the first round. 
2015-16 CCAA Men’s and Women’s Basketball Tournament 
M1: 12:05 p.m.5 MB4 HUM8 LA1 CHI6 SF3 POM7 SON2 SDM2: 2:35 p.m.M3: 5:05 p.m.MenT ue., March 1Campus sitesFri., March 4Stockton ArenaSat., March 5Stockton Arena
W1: 5:35 p.m.
5 SB4 STAN8 LA1 DH6 HUM3 EB7 POM2 SDW2: 8:05 p.m.W3: 7:35 p.m.Women
Written by Dev Jain // Associate Editor
and Gurkirat Singh // Senior Staff Writer
Photos by Megan Lee UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Volleyball
M.Tennis2/29
3/1
3/1
3/2
3/3VS Hawaii Pacific
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Sonoma State
VS Pepperdine 
VS Villanova
Readers can contact
gurkira t singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu    Readers can contact
Dev Jain   DAJAIN@ucsd.edu    IMAGE COURTESTY OF GOCCAA.ORG
IMAGE COURTESTY OF GOCCAA.ORG