RIM AC   FIELDVOLUME 49, ISSUE 51   THURSDA Y , APRIL 28, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MIGUEL 
NICO & VINZ
GREAT GOOD FINE OK
LOUIS THE CHILD
PARADISE
SGF 2016 PLAYLIST   SURE THING MIGUEL   SIMPLE 
THINGS MIGUEL  ADORN MIGUEL  COFFEE (F***ING)  
MIGUEL FT. WALE  HOW MANY DRINKS?  MIGUEL  
ALL I WANT IS YOU  MIGUEL  THAT’S HOW YOU KNOW 
FT KID INK, BEBE REXHA NICO & VINZ  AM I WRONG  
NICO & VINZ  OUR LOVE  NICO & VINZ  IN YOUR ARMS  
NICO & VINZ  LAY A LITTLE CLOSER  NICO & VINZ  WHEN 
THE DAY COMES  NICO & VINZ  TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT  
GREAT GOOD FINE OK  ALREADY LOVE  GREAT GOOD FINE 
OK  TOO MUCH TO HANDLE  GREAT GOOD FINE OK  NOT 
GOING HOME  GREAT GOOD FINE OK  BY MY SIDE  GREAT 
GOOD FINE OK   YOU’RE THE ONE FOR ME  GREAT GOOD FINE OK  
ZELLA DAY - COMPASS  (LOUIS THE CHILD REMIX)  FROM HERE  
LOUIS THE CHILD  TY DOLLA SIGN - BLASE  (LOUIS THE CHILD 
REMIX)  THE KNOCKS - I WISH  (LOUIS THE CHILD REMIX)  
PLAYLIST COURTESY OF ASCE SUN GOD FESTIVAL SUN GOD 2016
THE   
GUARDIANUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Explore the art of science 
and cinema through 
over 20 demonstrations, 
presentations, and 
performances by virtual 
reality industry leaders and 
international artists.
Tickets on sale now!
Half Day Pass:
$20 General Admission
$5 UCSD student
All Day Pass:
$35 General Admission
$10 UCSD StudentMAY 7, 2016Life Sciences 
PHYS 002A. General Physics (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.   
Classical mechanics. 
PHYS 002B.  General Physics (4).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, 
discussion 1 hr. Fluids, thermodynamics, 
electromagnetism.
PHYS 002C . General Physics (4).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr. 
Waves, optics; quantum, atomic, and nuclear 
physics.2016 UCR 
Summer 
Courses in 
Physics and 
Astronomy
General course o fferings for undergraduates in Life Sciences,  
Physical Sciences, Engineering, and Humanities
Summer School  Registration: 
May 16-June 15
Session 1: June 20-July 23
Session 2: July 25-August 27
For  more information, consult the 
UCR Catalog or contact (951) 827-
5332 for assistance. PHYS 02LA . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1. Lab 3 hrs. 
Laboratory for PHYS 002A.
PHYS 02LB . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1, Session 2.  
Lab 3 hrs. Laboratory for PHYS 002B.
PHYS 02LC . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 2. Lab 3 hrs.  
Laboratory for PHYS 002C.
Engineering and Physical Sciences
PHYS 040A.  General Physics (5).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr, 
lab 3 hrs. Classical mechanics.PHYS 040B. General Physics (5).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 
1 hr, lab 3 hrs. Thermodynamics, mechanical 
and sound waves, elasticity.
PHYS 040C. General Physics (5).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr,  
lab 3 hrs. Electricity and magnetism, elec -
tromagnetic oscillations; dc and ac current; 
circuits.
Humanities
PHYS 037.  The Origins (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.  
The Origin of the Universe, Origin of Matter, 
First Generation of Stars and Galaxies. Courtesy: National Science Foundation
OFFICIAL SUN GOD 2 016 MERCHANDISE ON SALE NOW
LIBRARY WALK: 9AM-3PM • ONLINE AT TO.UCSD.EDUSINGIN’ IN THE 
STREET
WE’VE SEEN WRITER-
DIRECTOR CARNEY’S MUSICAL  
AND NOW WE’VE GIVEN IT A 
GRADE. READ ON FOR THE 
UCSD GUARDIAN’S OPINION OF  
THE FILM STARRING FERDIA 
WALSH-PEELO .
RESTORING  VOTER  RIGHTS
SOFTBALL P REVIEWDISCRIMINA TOR Y LA W S  IN  PLACE
Lumberjack s   loom   aheadOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  16
THURSDAY
H 63 L 51FRIDAY
H 66 L 53
SATURDAY
H 63 L 52SUNDAY
H 67 L 52
FORECASTWEEKEND,  P AGE  13
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ City Recruits 
UCSD to 
Develop THC 
Sobriety TestSAN DIEGO
The project aims to improve  
upon the unreliable tests 
that police currently use to 
detect stoned drivers.
BY   m i n g - r a y  l i a o
The city of San Diego has given 
$1.8 million to UCSD scientists in 
order to develop a sobriety test to 
determine if drivers are impaired 
by marijuana. The California State 
Legislature commissioned the project, 
which is funded in part by Assembly 
Bill 266 and the Medical Marijuana 
Regulation and Safety Act.
Thomas Marcotte, one of the 
scientists leading the study and a 
psychiatry professor at UCSD, outlined 
the research design, which will involve 
investigating participants under 
the influence of controlled doses of 
Tetrahydrocannabinol, the chemical 
responsible for most of marijuana’s 
psychoactive effects.
“We’ll bring in 50 to 60 participants 
and have them smoke a marijuana 
cigarette at different levels of THC — 
roughly 0, 7 and 12 percent, ” Marcotte 
told the UCSD Guardian. “We’ll follow 
them over the course of the day on 
driving simulations, some iPad-based 
cognitive measures as well as collecting 
fluids, including blood, saliva and 
breath, to see if we can correlate those 
levels, objective cognitive performance, 
and relate those to how they do on 
those driving simulations. ”
California Director of the National 
Organization for Reform of Marijuana 
Laws Dale Gieringer stated that 
studies have found no clear correlation 
between chemical concentrations of 
THC in a person’s body and their 
driving capabilities.
“Most recently the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration ASCE Reveals Secret Sun 
God Artist: Louis the Child
A.S. Concerts and Events Director Christian 
Walker revealed to the UCSD Guardian that the 
secret Sun God artist is electronic music duo 
Louis the Child. The artist will be performing 
second at Saturday’s festival, following Paradise 
and leading into Great Good Fine Ok, Nico 
and Vinz and headliner Miguel.
Walker told the Guardian that ASCE 
has been looking forward to revealing the 
secret artist ever since the initial lineup 
announcement, partly because of how unique 
the duo’s musical style would be from the rest 
of this year’s Sun God lineup.
“[A] big question we’ve gotten pretty 
constantly since releasing this year’s lineup 
is ‘where is the EDM?’ and it was so hard to 
keep this a secret, ” Walker said. “But once their 
performances at Coachella [were] completed 
[we were] free to tell the students about this 
stellar act that’s heading their way. We feel like 
their music really fits perfectly at this year’s 
event, and can’t wait!”
Louis the Child is a Chicago-based DJ duo 
comprised of producers Freddy Kennett and 
Robby Hauldren whose music takes inspiration 
from trap, electronic dance music and hip-hop. According to EDM.com, SnapChat ranked 
LTC among its top three EDM artists to watch 
in 2016. Moreover, in January, the act topped 
MixMag’s list of “ Artists Taking American 
Dance Music to the Next Level. ” The duo’s 
single “It’s Strange” (featuring K. Flay) gained 
notoriety after being featured on Taylor Swift’s 
playlist “New Songs That Will Make Your Life 
More Awesome” that she released in October 
and on the FIFA 16 video game soundtrack. 
The reason why ASCE had to keep the artist 
a secret, according to Walker, was because the 
duo’s contract with Coachella prohibited them 
from announcing any upcoming performances 
in the region until the conclusion of the dual-
weekend festival.
“It was due to the fact that they had already 
been booked by Coachella, and announcing 
another show in Southern California around 
the same date would have violated their 
contract for that festival, ” Walker said. “So 
we booked them with the understanding 
that we’ d need to keep it a secret until after 
Coachella ended. ”
Walker and his team hope that Louis the 
Child’s music will match up with both the B y  jacky to     SUN GOD FESTIVAL
See LOUIS , page 3
See STONED , page 3Photo courtesy of The Sights and Soundsissued a report saying that there was no 
clear relationship, that it was dangerous 
to try to predict impairment based on 
blood levels of THC, ” Gieringer told 
the Guardian. “That’s why we’ve been 
long calling for better impairment 
testing based on the way they do 
roadside sobriety tests like looking at 
people’s reactions and coordinations. ”
Marcotte explained that 
determining levels of impairment from 
marijuana is difficult because breath or 
fluid levels do not always indicate how 
intoxicated an individual may be.
“THC is not like alcohol where the 
more you take the more likely you’re 
going to get into an accident, ” Marcotte said. “THC has a different process in 
the body so that the amount of THC 
in your system doesn’t always correlate 
with how impaired you are. ”
Marijuana is currently classified 
as a Schedule I drug by the Drug 
Enforcement Agency, which means 
that there are no medical benefits, but 
Wilsey indicates that this classification 
could change.
“It seems that times are changing 
and there will be more studies 
allowed, ” Wilsey said. “We hear 
presidential candidates espousing that 
perhaps [marijuana] should no longer 
be a Schedule I drug … We think 
there is coherent evidence that it is 
beneficial, particularly to people who 
have neuropathic pain — injuries to the nervous system. ”
Gieringer reiterated that even 
though people may still be able to drive 
under the influence of marijuana, it 
may be, in part, due to motorists being 
aware of its effects.
“There are a lot of people who 
claim that [they drive better stoned], 
but I can’t say that has been proven, 
since you can definitely get impaired 
by marijuana, ” Gieringer said. “I think 
the saving grace is that when people do 
get very impaired by marijuana they 
tend to be more conscious of that fact 
and more reluctant to drive or tend to 
drive more slowly. ”daytime college atmosphere. 
“I think they’re a name that 
is really beginning to resonate in 
college audiences right now, ” Walker 
said. “They also musically fit really 
well with the daytime vibe and feel 
that we were aiming for at this  
year’s festival. ”
The 2016 Sun God Festival will take place on Saturday, April 
30 between 12 p.m. and 6 p.m. All 
UCSD undergraduates qualify for 
free admission if they registered 
online for the event before Tuesday at 
11:59 p.m. However, according to the 
event’s Facebook page, registration 
is limited to the capacity of RIMAC 
Field and will thus occur on a first-
come, first-serve basis. Students’ UCSD identification cards will serve 
as their tickets into the festival, but 
re-entry will be prohibited. 
UCSD graduate students are also 
eligible to purchase Sun God tickets 
in person at the UCSD Box Office 
for $46 (plus box office fees).NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
TRIUMPHANT #5 By Alex Liang
Signs of Alcohol Poisoning
Responsive, 
but listless 
and sleepyPut them on their side, 
give water and  stay 
with them
Passed out,
but can be 
woken up 
Not responsive OR 
skin tone is bluish 
OR breathing is 
irregular (any of these)Put them on their side, 
give water and stay 
with them−
Call 911  or 
(858) 534-HELP (4357)
Take action!if anything changes,
make the call!
Signs of Drug Poisoning
Weird behavior,
acting different
than the person
you know
high body 
temperature
& dry skin
very rapid heartbeat
Can’t walk on their
own or hold
themselves upCall 911  or 
(858) 534-HELP (4357)
Take action!
(If any of the following signs are present, call for help)
For additional information, visit studenthealth.ucsd.edu/aod.shtml
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdianWalker: Louis the Child Fits Daytime Atmosphere of  T his Year’s Festival
Evidence Could Challenge Marijuana’s Classification as Schedule I Drug▶ LOUIS,  from page 2
▶ STONED,  from page 2jacky to   
MING-RA Y LIAO   Executive Vice Chancellor of  Academic Affairs to ResignIN BRIEF    JACKY TO AND JOSH LEFLER
NEWS EDITORS
UCSD Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Suresh Subramani 
announced plans to step down from his position after more than five years 
of service. The announcement was made via an April 20 email from UCSD 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla addressed to faculty, staff and students.
Subramani was appointed as UCSD’s first executive vice chancellor in 2011. 
During his term, Subramani recruited more than 240 new faculty members 
and raised over a billion dollars in research funding each year. In addition HE 
established the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
and helped create the Black Resource Center and Raza Resource Centro.
Subramani has been a part of the UCSD faculty for 35 years and currently 
serves as a distinguished professor in the division of biological sciences. 
According to the email, Subramani will continue to teach and conduct research 
at UCSD after his resignation. 
Khosla spoke on Subramani’s decision to leave the position, and commended 
him for his service to the university.
“I am deeply grateful for EVC Subramani’s partnership in our efforts to 
keep [UCSD] at the forefront of education and research, ” Khosla said. “We 
are fortunate that he will continue to be deeply engaged with [UCSD] upon 
his return to teaching and research as a distinguished professor of molecular 
biology, following a well-deserved period of sabbatical. ”UCSD Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez disclosed this 
year’s updates to the Sun God safety policies on April 25. In the email sent to 
all UCSD students, Gonzalez stated that any student engaging in behavior that 
results in specific punitive measures from UCSD Police between April 28 at 8 
p.m. and May 1 at 8 a.m. will be barred from attending either this year’s or next 
year’s festival.
Students can be restricted from the festival if they are arrested or are cited for 
being under the influence, driving under the influence or distributing controlled 
substances. Another violation of the policy can include a student receiving a 
citation or possessing controlled substances other than marijuana. Furthermore, 
any students caught engaging in behavior that calls for their arrest but who are 
instead admitted to a hospital also qualify for exclusion from the event.
Moreover, Gonzalez stated that the festival’s Weekend Residential Guest 
Policy will remain in place, which means only residents of each of the campus’ 
seven residential areas — the six colleges and the Village — can be present in the 
area’s living spaces between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
night. This policy does not apply to public spaces, study rooms, dining areas or 
outdoor spaces in those residential areas. 
According to the email, the policy is aimed at “mitigating the prospect of 
multiple large gatherings and disruptions, ” which the university hopes will help 
resident assistants “efficiently handle any situations” that occur in the living 
areas over the weekend.University Releases Updates to Sun God Safety Policies4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 Musicians have long used the 
boycotting of concerts in certain 
states to protest discriminatory 
laws enforced within. Since North 
Carolina’s recent enactment of House 
Bill 2 — a law overturning LGBT-
discrimination bans and barring 
transgender people from using the 
bathroom of their preferred gender 
identity — Bruce Springsteen and a 
host of artists have announced their 
decisions to cancel shows in the 
state, reasoning that boycotting is the 
best action they can take to pressure 
legislature. But in order to effectively 
address the widespread discrimination 
faced by the LGBT in North Carolina 
and beyond, it is imperative that 
musicians use their platforms to 
increase visibility rather than attempt 
the less effectual musician’s boycott.
    The decision of Springsteen 
and friends, including Boston, 
Ringo Starr and Bryan Williams, 
among others, is no new form of 
protesting discriminatory laws. 
When the Indiana Religious Freedom 
Restoration Act passed in March 
of 2015 and allowed businesses to 
refuse service to gay customers, 
Wilco announced the band’s refusal 
to perform in Indianapolis. And 
when, according to CNN, George 
Zimmerman was acquitted of murder 
charges in the death of the unarmed 
Travyon Martin, Stevie Wonder 
vowed to perform in no state with 
stand-your-ground laws in place. 
The effect of such boycotts, though, 
is nothing ultimate. As reported by 
The Atlantic, there have been no 
repeals to stand-your-ground laws. 
In the case of Indiana’s law, the LGBT community was eventually added as 
a protected class under the law. But 
this addendum only happened after 
Marc Benioff, the CEO of software 
service company Salesforce, penned 
multiple open letters to Indiana Gov. 
Mike Pence in protest, promised 
relocation packages for the company’s 
employees and threatened to scale 
back Salesforce investments in the 
state. According to Huffington Post 
Business, Benioff recruited over 70 
tech executives to fight the bill as 
well. What’s clear is that concert 
cancellations have not — and still 
do not — guarantee or necessarily 
precipitate legal change.
  And with the potential benefits 
of performing in a state like North 
Carolina — the opportunity for 
mobilization and the publicity 
for in-concert protesting — the 
decision to merely cancel and declare 
solidarity is a risky decision that 
may not result in the desired legal 
repeal, assuming that an all-artist 
boycott will not succeed in quelling 
political opposition. As pointed out 
by Josh Tildman — also known 
as Father John Misty, who will 
go forward with North Carolina 
performances — cancelling on North 
Carolina has the undertone of falsely 
consolidating a plethora of issues 
into a singular winnable campaign. “I 
also play states that have oppressive 
drug laws designed to imprison the 
disenfranchised, ” described Tildman, 
emphasizing the notion that injustices 
faced by the LGBT community and 
beyond cannot simply be solved by 
pretty boycotts.
Laura Jane Grace — the transgender founder and leader 
of famed punk-rock band Against 
Me! — will be performing in North 
Carolina for this reason, describing 
her decision to BuzzFeed News as “a 
form of protest, to say that despite 
whatever stupid laws they enact, trans 
people are not going to be scared. ” 
Singer, songwriter, and activist Cyndi 
Lauper, who created True Colors Fund 
to address homelessness among LGBT 
youth, described her plan to turn her 
Raleigh show into an “entire day to 
build public support to repeal HB2, ” 
as stated on her Facebook post. What 
Tilllman, Grace and Lauper promote 
by going into a social climate like that 
for LGBT people in North Carolina 
is the idea that transphobia is not 
limited to HB2 and that the solution 
to such anti-LGBT+ legislation is not 
something that can be itemized in the 
way that musicians like Springsteen 
seem to treat it.
   A repeal of HB2 would certainly 
go down as a win, but only one in a 
war seeing a far greater amount of 
battles that must be fought with the 
utilization of public platform. The 
fact that Nisha Ayub, a transgender 
woman, was sexually abused in a 
male prison last month — to which 
she was sent instead of a women’s 
institution — is not an isolated event. 
There is no legal requirement for the 
gender identity of trans people to be 
honored in prison sentencing, and 
this is hardly the tip of the iceberg 
in the brutal fight for rights faced by 
the trans community. This fight both 
cannot and will not be solved by the 
boycotting efforts of few.
   Ideally, there would not be too many discriminatory laws based on 
race, gender and sexual orientation 
to address. Ideally, celebrities would 
speak up on the lasting issues and 
injustices pertaining to the state 
of trans rights at times other than 
HB2. Ideally, the people speaking 
out about such issues wouldn’t only 
be celebrities like Janet Mock and 
Laverne Cox, who are trans women of 
color and activists themselves.
  But as it stands, the most 
significant action an artist can take in 
efforts to encourage social change is to 
use their platform and their presence 
for the sake of activism, awareness 
and visibility. 
  Of course, musicians who 
cancel shows in solidarity are not 
explicitly harming trans people 
in and outside of North Carolina. 
They are, however, ceasing to use 
their power for significant change. 
Supplying funding and support to 
everyone affected by HB2 in North 
Carolina — which several artists have 
used as an alternative to carrying out 
performances in the state — is a step 
that should be taken in conjunction 
with, rather than in place of, doing 
scheduled shows in the state.
  Ultimately, whether to cancel 
or perform in North Carolina is less 
vital of a decision than is the fact that 
celebrities have a Facebook on more 
days than the one on which they 
announce single boycotts in response 
to individual bills. And in order for 
musicians to be the activists they hope 
to be via such attempts, a genuine and 
constant effort to address inequalities 
must be a pattern, a practice and an 
insistence rather than just a decision.To Effectively Invoke Social Change, Artists Must do More with their Platform than Boycott
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nate Walker
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 Maria Sebas
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Virginia Gov. Terry McAuli ffe’s recent executive action to restore voting rights to felons 
who have completed their parole or probation is a reassuring step in an unfortunately long 
history of U.S. voter disenfranchisement. As one might expect, voter suppression laws are 
designed to reduce the number of votes a particular group casts, usually African Americans. 
In the past, this has been achieved through overtly racist laws and scare-tactics against 
communities of color. These legacy laws continue to exist in many states and, in recent years, 
have come under scrutiny as the true racist intentions of these laws comes to light. Blocking 
felons from voting is one such example, and Gov. McAuli ffe’s executive action is a positive 
step toward ending discriminatory and outdated laws.
Prohibiting felons from voting has its origins in the American South during the 1860s 
and 1870s when former slaves first attained the right to vote. Immediately following the 
passage of the 15th Amendment — which prohibits voting discrimination on the basis of 
race — anti-voting laws exploded in the Southern states, largely as a way to curb the African-
American vote. These laws included mandatory literacy tests, gerrymandered districts and 
criminal disenfranchisement laws, all of which substantially discouraged black voters. During 
this time, Southern politicians openly sought to justify white supremacy through whatever 
means possible, usually through a combination of violent fear tactics and legal reasoning 
for segregation. These politicians passed laws prohibiting people alleged of “moral failings 
or mental de ficiencies” from voting and exercising their constitutional rights. In order to 
persuade the poor white populace to support these laws, politicians only applied these laws to African Americans, not the white voters.
Although politicians are no longer technically favoring white supremacy, many support 
ideas that originated from these racist beliefs. Laws designed to prohibit felons from voting, 
for example, disproportionately a ffect African-American men, who comprise 37 percent of all 
U.S. prisoners, according to Department of Justice statistics. Conversely, African-American 
men make up less than 6 percent of the national population, a very alarming disparity. 
Furthermore, laws continue to be unfairly applied to African Americans, who are three times 
more likely to be searched during a tra ffic stop compared to white citizens. As unfair racial 
biases are still very much present in our justice system, African Americans are more likely to 
be arrested for a DUI, even though white communities have higher levels of alcohol abuse 
and admit to driving drunk more frequently, according to the National Highway Tra ffic 
Safety Administration. These inconsistencies lead to higher rates of arrests and convictions of 
African Americans, subsequently reducing the number of eligible black voters.
In addition, business sectors that rely on prisons for income are heavily supportive of 
a system that seeks to keep a portion of its population incarcerated, solely on the basis of 
race. The prison-industrial complex, aptly named for the large number of industries that 
support our prison system, encourages he fty and expensive prison sentences for the sake 
of ensuring pro fits. For example, the Corrections Corporation of America  — a private-
prison lobbying organization  — has donated more than $10 million toward candidates 
in favor of harsh drug sentencing laws according to the Washington Post. As a result, 
See VOTE, page 5
From literacy tests to voter identification laws, voter disenfra nchising is 
no new form of legal discrimination. But with Virginia governor  Terry 
McAuliffe’s recent executive action restore voting rights to fe lons. the 
movement for equal voting rights sees a significant step in the right direction.ILLUSTRA TION  B Y  DA VID  JUAREZRESTORING  THE  RIGHT
TO  VOTEOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
these donations severely reduce 
the number of eligible African-
American voters, bene fit businesses 
that exploit the labor of prisoners, 
and encourage the belief that people 
deserve lasting and permanent 
punishment for their crimes.
Despite arguments that felons 
make up too small of an electorate 
to determine an election, some 
evidence suggests that felons could 
have changed the outcome of the 
2000 presidential election. In that 
year, Florida had roughly 827,000 
disenfranchised felons who were 
unable to vote in the election, and 
the destined candidate of Florida’s 
votes — George W . Bush — was decided by fewer than 1,000 votes, 
according to Federal Election 
Commission statistics. Like the vast 
majority of states, these felons were 
predominantly African Americans, 
who have been shown to vote 
overwhelming Democratic. Had 
they been able to vote, it is quite 
probable that Al Gore would have 
won Florida, and therefore the 2000 
presidential election. This is an 
unfortunate instance of how racially-
biased laws can severely undermine 
our democracy and change the 
course of history as we know it.
Ensuring that felons retain the 
right to vote is an essential step 
toward removing racial prejudice 
within the United States. A voting 
system is blatantly undemocratic when one in eight African 
Americans was barred from voting 
in 2014 due to a criminal past, 
according to ABC News. According 
to KQED, 10 additional states 
currently permanently strip felons 
of their voting rights, and the 
number of disenfranchised felons 
has grown to over 1.5 million in 
Florida alone. Denying such a large 
percentage of an electorate the right 
to vote ultimately reduces voter 
participation in our democracy and 
builds resentment and distrust of our 
political system. More states should 
follow Gov. McAuli ffe’s example 
and begin to restore voting rights to 
those who have served their time, so 
that they can embrace their rights as 
citizens of this country.
Voting Rights for Felons Who Follow Parole or Probation Necessary and Overdue 
▶ VOTE from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
UCSD Joins Largest Autism Study in United States History
The university will aid in the collection of over 50,000 DNA samples in order to study the genetic origins of autism
Researchers from UCSD’s Autism 
Center of Excellence announced that 
they have joined the largest study of 
autism in the history of the United 
States last Thursday. The study is 
called SPARK — or the Simons 
Foundation Powering Autism 
Research for Knowledge — and 
aims to improve the understanding, 
diagnosis and treatment of autism-
spectrum disorders.
The study, through the 
collaboration of 21 research 
institutions across the country, aims 
to provide the research community 
with the genetic information of a 
large sample of individuals with 
autism. The researchers hope the 
DNA analyses will further their 
understanding of how genetic and 
environmental factors interact 
to cause the disorder, in order to 
develop more e ffective treatments 
and support. 
UCSD associate professor 
of neurosciences Karen Pierce, 
co-director of ACE and SPARK 
researcher — emphasized the 
widespread network the center has within the autism community in 
San Diego as one of the reasons they 
were selected for the grant. 
“We are one of the largest autism 
centers in the country, in terms of 
the scope and depth of research that 
we do [and] in terms of the sample 
sizes that we are able to recruit, ” 
Pierce told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Through our relationship [with 
the community] and through those 
connections we’ve screened over 
6,000 babies here in San Diego for 
possible autism. ” 
ACE is currently recruiting 3,000 
participants diagnosed with autism 
and two of their family members 
to make a “trio” for a total of 9,000 
individuals from San Diego and 
Phoenix, Arizona over a period of 
two years. Each participant will 
fill out an online form to receive a 
saliva-testing kit for DNA collection 
that will be sent back to the center 
to be be analyzed regarding the 
heritability of autism. Those who 
qualify for SPARK will receive a 
$50 gi ft card and access to online 
resources and research news.
According to Pierce, the typical 
autism study has a sample size of 
40 to 50 individuals due to the difficulties of obtaining large sets 
of data from the population. The 
study’s undertaking of a sample 
size of 50,000 individuals across 
the country will require heavy 
recruitment and the use of networks 
throughout the community.
UCSD professor of cognitive 
science Jaime Pineda, who has an 
interest in autism research as it 
relates to social cognition, feels that 
the initiative is important but could 
be broader in its scope. 
“The SPARK initiative will utilize 
state-of-the-art methodologies 
such as fMRI, eye tracking and 
genetic mapping in up to 50,000 
or so babies to characterize those 
at risk for autism, as well as those 
who are developing normally, ” 
Pineda told the Guardian. “[ The 
study] will have a huge impact 
on anyone doing autism research 
since it will, undoubtedly, bring us 
closer to understanding the causes 
of the disorder. [But] as welcome 
as the initiative is, its focus [on the 
causes] is really one-sided and it 
would have been better, from my 
perspective, to focus both on the 
causes and the cures. ”
The premise of the study is open-ended and may lead to a 
variety of follow-up studies that 
address more care-based aspects of 
treating autism. Pamela Feliciano, 
the scienti fic director of SPARK, 
emphasized how the relationships 
formed through this study will 
be one of the most worthwhile 
outcomes. 
“ A big goal of SPARK is to form 
meaningful partnerships between 
people with autism, their families 
and scientists, ” Feliciano told the 
Guardian. “SPARK is going to collect 
an incredible amount of data — not 
to mention create a ready group of 
receptive research participants — 
that autism scientists so desperately 
need to speed up the pace of 
research. And I think people who 
join SPARK will probably learn a lot 
about themselves, their child with 
autism and about autism in general, 
and that’s going to be meaningful. ”
For more information or to 
enroll in the study, please contact 
the SPARK clinical coordinator Erin 
Bower at (858) 534-6906 or email 
her at e1bower@ucsd.edu.By  b e c ca  c h o n g
becca chong    Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  
And then God said, “Let there be a Li ’l Gender-Neutral 
Restroom, for Sun God,” to which his disciples all replied 
“yesss” and began plastering triangles on doors and also 
beginning the illuminati.Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Marcus Thuillier, Quinn Pieper, 
Jacky To
Copy Reader
Lisa Chik, Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebas
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee More
DUE TO INCREASED POLICE  PRESENCE, ACCB WANTS YOU TO PLAN BEFORE YOU PARTY:
PLEASE REGISTER AT LEAST 24 HOURS
IN ADVANCE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESA.S. SAFE RIDES OFFERS
FREE TRANSPORTATION
TO AND FROM SUN GOD!
FOR MORE INFO CONTACT
A.S. SAFE RIDES AT (619) 564-7998
CONTACT ACCB VIA UCSDACCB@GMAIL.COMKate Pommert, alumna from class of 2014 
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
BL: How has Sun God changed since you have attended UCSD?
KP: It was always on the Saturday after seventh week from like 3 p.m. to midnight; now it's during midterms and ends at 6 p.m. — that sucks. 
Also it has a smaller budget which means fewer and poorer musical acts. There also used to be two stages — the main stage and a dance tent — 
which was awesome because there was room for a more diverse musical lineup to appeal to a broader range of tastes.
BL: Has the music festival culture at UCSD changed since your Sun God experience?
KP: I think since I started UCSD the music festival culture has become increasingly mainstream. It used to be more of a subculture, which was 
what made it cool that UCSD has its own. Now clothing stores have their own lines of "festival couture." I think in the last five years music 
festivals have become an epitome of millennial culture. Flower headbands and rave kandi for everyone!
BL: Do you feel content, discontent or even apathetic about the direction Sun God is taking?
KP: I have mixed feelings about it. It was tragic to hear about the student that died two years ago. But I think as a school we have few opportunities 
for unifying experiences that give us a chance to blow off steam. Nobody goes to sports games because we're not a big-name athletic school, but 
Sun God used to be big time. Kids would look forward to it all year. Now it ends at 6 p.m.? Jack Johnson concerts don't even end at 6 p.m. A lot 
of kids won't be able to go because it's during midterms. Personally, I think if kids want to drink in excess and do drugs, they'll find a way to 
do it, whether it's at Sun God or, off-campus parties and music festivals that happen every weekend. It would be cool to see UCSD take a more 
tolerant stance of saying we want our student body to have fun and be safe, let’s increase our first aid and educational effort — maybe even create 
a task force that patrols campus during Sun God, not to police, but to be a helping hand for students that are struggling. 
BL: Did you ever not go to Sun God? If not, was there something that UCSD could have done to bring more incentive to go?
KP: The only year I didn't go was 2014. I wasn't interested in the lineup that year; there was actually an off-campus show that I wanted to see 
more. So I guess I would say a different lineup would have incentivized me to go, but I know that ASCE polls the student body to find out what 
they want to hear before they book the lineup, so I can't blame them because I have divergent taste.It’s that time of year again, folks, where UCSD dons its high-waisted shorts, American flag socks and all things Urban Outfitters to attend the annual event that 
might be the root of all school pride. Interested in how this tradition has changed over time? What your zodiac sign has for this soiree? How to become more than 
a quasi-conscious attendee? Then read on to maximize your participation in this year’s Sun God Festival.
   The Evolution of Sun GodAfter 1984, UCSD would never truly be quite the same. Though party and festival culture never quite dominated the university scene, the 
creation of the Sun God Festival has been an outlet for UCSD students to congregate on one day and compensate for staying home during the 
rest of the year. Read on to find out more about how this yearly establishment has since changed, encompassing everything from the good, to 
the bad and to the booze. 
Melinda Deustch, alumna from class of 1983 
Written by Adam Fisher // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
AF: What was your reaction to the Sun God statue when it was first introduced?
MD: “When the Sun God was put there, it was really controversial. My recollection is that it was one of the first pieces of modern art on 
campus. A lot of people thought that it made the campus look undignified. It’s pretty playful. I liked it. It’s a lot more dignified than upside-
down tennis fences. ”
AF: What do you think of the music festival?
MD: “Well, I think it’s great that young people are having a good time. What the hell. ”
AF: What do you think about the use of drugs and alcohol during the festival?
MD: “I think young people should find a good way to have fun without dying. Honestly, I don’t know why the campus is spending so much 
money on the festival. Couldn’t they have spent it on something else? If the students are taking enough drugs and alcohol, they probably could 
have a pretty good time by themselves, and they probably don’t need to spend a lot of money on the festival. And then the money could be spent 
on academic pursuits. Since the students are feeling very importuned because they can’t be drunk and high during a few hours of their week, 
why is the university even doing this? Aren’t they spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on this?”
AF: How do you feel about the increased regulation of Sun God?
MD: “I’ d be pretty pissed if I sunk 60–90K on my child’s education and then they died. That’s not a very good return on my investment. What’s 
the campus supposed to do?”
Tracy Newallis, alumna from class of 1988 
Written by Shelby Newallis // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
SN: What years did you attend SGF?
T: For sure in 1985. Other years I don’t remember it being a thing. Especially because it was so small and wasn’t highly publicized. The only 
reason I knew about it was because I was in Ski Club, and we brought in In N’ Out food trucks to fundraise for our org. 
SN: What does Sun God mean to you?
T: Well, the statue was still new when I was there. People would be like, “Oh have you seen that new statue by the faculty lot?” It definitely didn’t 
have as much meaning as it has today. 
SN: So, now the festival is kind of a big deal. Thoughts, comments? 
T: Y eah, it’s crazy how commercial the festival has become. The festival used to feel very homegrown. Now, it kind of feels like the exclusivity 
and hype surrounding the festival kills the laid-back vibe of a music festival. I think all the restrictions that are in place now only make students 
act out more — if you treat students like less than adults, that’s how they’re going to act. UCSD used to be more liberal and trusting and it seems 
like that’s not really the way things are nowadays.
SN: Definitely not. Since it seems like Sun God wasn’t that big of a deal in the ‘80s, were there any other cool outdoor concerts or festivals that 
you remember?
T: There were always concerts in front of the Muir gym, on those steps by the Hump. I remember those were really fun and always free entry, 
free beer. One time the Red Hot Chili Peppers performed and that was pretty cool, but no one really knew who they were. I guess they were up 
and coming back then. 
Jennifer Mancano, alumna from class of 1990  
Written by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
OG: What is your attitude towards Sun God?
JM: I have always been a big fan! Y ou guys work so hard all year, it’s nice to have the event where you can kick back and go a little crazy. I was 
in Warren, so I lived in the apartments that were pretty isolated. Sun God brought people from all colleges together and that was a nice part of 
it back in those days. By the way, it used to be held by Price Center. I mean, the stage was actually there, but at every college there were a lot of 
different activities.
OG: Would you call it a significant part of your college experience?
JM: I guess yes, because it can be one of those times you specifically remember, especially first-year Sun God. But of course it is just a small part 
of the whole college experience.
OG: What do you think about the use of drugs and alcohol during the festival? Was it a problem when you were attending UCSD?
JM: I am sure there were people who were way too drunk. There would be people at [Porter’s Pub] and at the Sun God Lawn, so the whole area 
would be a hang out spot, but I don’t remember there being any huge number of problems that we’re hearing about more recently.
OG: Do you remember any special on-campus regulations on the day of Sun God? How regulated was the event overall?
JM: Living on campus, I remember trying to get stuff in the apartments without seeing an RSO. At the actual event I don’t remember any police, 
really. As a staff member in later years though I remember going to a meeting where they had the police talking to us. They were telling us to 
inform students, especially women, that if they are being taken to detox they should never fight back, because if they fought going to detox they 
would get arrested. The detox is downtown and men’s jail was right by detox, so for guys it would not be that big of a difference. But women’s jail 
was in Santee at the time. And that’s a long trip! Y eah, that was an interesting message. 
Illustration by Christina Carlson WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Meet  
Miguel is the embodiment of the underlying sensuality that informs 
R&B’s spirit with his six-pack abs, three albums and a voice capable of 
jaw-dropping falsettos. However, his influences spread much further 
from the genre than many may expect. He cites Kanye West, The Police and 
Prince as major influences on himself but goes a step farther in proving his 
appreciation of different genres by collaborating with the unexpected. The great 
“Waves” remix featuring country star Kacey Musgraves highlights Miguel’s ability 
to smoothly transition and fuse different genres — serving as more of a true 
collaboration than a simple remix. Practicing what he preaches, Miguel proves 
to be no dilettante.
However, his path to success was fraught with legal issues and label 
dissolutions. After being signed to the now-defunct Jive Records in 2007, Miguel 
seemed to have a straight path laid in front of him: release some singles, release 
the album and tour. Instead, a vengeful former label came after him and led to a 
two-year delay of his debut album “ All I Want Is Y ou. ” In those few years, Miguel 
made the best out of a bad situation by keeping himself busy — contributing 
vocals to Blu’s West Coast classic “Below the Heavens” and writing songs for 
multiple Usher albums. It wouldn’t be until the release of his second album that 
critics at large would recognize just what he was capable of.
Sophomore album “Kaleidoscope Dream”’s precise mix of sharp vocals, pop 
sheen and dense production made it a compelling pick for best R&B album 
of the year. “Kaleidoscope Dream” was instrumental in redefining what R&B 
was expected to be like and sound like, helping the genre move away from the 
banality of Trey Songz. Fellow contemporaries like Frank Ocean and The Weeknd 
were also indispensable in R&B’s renaissance with their own debuts, forming a 
triumvirate of R&B wunderkind. 
Miguel’s latest, “Wildheart, ” reifies his status as a sex symbol and reaffirms his 
position at the forefront of the genre. It seems like Miguel has yet to peak, always 
striving to deliver the best music he can. Often losing his shirt somewhere on 
stage, his live performances are a testament to that same indomitable spirit he 
presents in the studio. We’ll be able to expect great variety and carnality from a 
passionate Miguel at Sun God, sure to pull from the farthest corners of his rich 
discography — whether it be more rock-influenced tracks like “Waves” or the 
hip-hop heavy “NW A. ”
—  Sam  Velazquez 
A&E Associate Editor
(4:30 – 5:45)
(3:25 – 4:10)
Not many know the names Nico and Vinz. Everyone, however, 
knows the song “ Am I Wrong, ” the 2013 international hit that 
dominated radio stations across the globe for months despite no 
one knowing or really caring who was behind it. The track reached the 
top five of charts in numerous countries, including the United States, the 
United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and Norway — Nico and Vinz’s 
home country — and its music video has over 300 million views on 
Y ouTube. It will undoubtedly be the most recognizable song played at 
this year’s Sun God Festival. 
The duo’s endeavors following the single’s run, however, have yet to 
match or even come close to its success. But this isn’t a knock on Nico 
and Vinz or their talents; they set the bar extremely high for themselves. 
One of the duo’s latest singles, “That’s How Y ou Know” (featuring Kid 
Ink and Bebe Rexha), still managed to peak at No. 2 in both Australia 
and Norway. Though its position at No. 120 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 
100 looks undesirable, for a foreign — not to mention, Norwegian 
— afrobeat group, this ranking proves that they’re still relevant to the 
American market.
The single, though not as auditorily inspiring as “ Am I Wrong, ” is 
a fun track that will absolutely play well at a daytime festival like this 
year’s Sun God Festival, especially considering Nico and Vinz are merely 
a lead-in act and not the headliner. As for the rest of their discography, 
even in their more somber songs like “Hold It Together” and “When the 
Day Comes, ” positive vibes and upbeat tempos shine through, making 
their music enjoyable for any listener in any mood. 
Thus far, UCSD students have criticized this year’s lineup for its lack 
of prestige and notoriety. This, however, could end up to the artists’ 
advantage. Nico and Vinz, in particular, possess a charm in both their 
music and their presence that will surprise the Sun God Festival crowd 
and leave them going into Miguel’s set with a definitive grin on their face.
—  Jacky To 
Senior staff writer
2016
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANGTHELineup8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKENDWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
(12:40 – 1:10)
This year’s Sun God lineup may be light on alt-pop, but that 
doesn’t mean fans won’t be able to find their indie fix at Saturday’s 
festival. Brooklyn synthpop duo Great Good Fine Ok crafts 
energetic indie-pop songs and plans on bringing their lively, flashy show 
to Southern California for the first time in over a year. Comprised of 
singer-songwriter Jon Sandler and multi-instrumentalist/producer Luke 
Moellman, the duo has kept itself relevant since its 2013 inception with a 
steady stream of EPs and singles. 
“We’ve released two EPs, ” Sandler told the UCSD Guardian. “‘Body 
Diamond EP’ was our first one, and then we released an EP called ‘2M2H’ 
with another four songs. After that we released a single called ‘Take It or 
Leave It, ’ and after that we released a single called ‘ Already Love. ’ We’re 
preparing to release more music very soon. ”
In just the few years that Great Good Fine Ok has been a band, the 
duo’s sound has evolved — not surprisingly, considering they composed 
their first song, “Y ou’re The One For Me, ” in just one night.  
“We’re always just trying to make the music that we’re inspired to 
make and that we’re passionate about making, so it hasn’t changed 
that much from the beginning, ” Sandler said. “I’ d say from the first 
EP to the second EP it’s gotten a little bit more funky, a little bit 
more organic. We’re using more real instruments, not quite as 
dreamy and synthy — maybe a little bit more raw. ”
The band emphasizes, however, that the music they’re 
working on now will draw inspiration from the late, eccentric 
legend Prince.    
“Prince was such a huge inspiration, ” Sandler said. 
“Especially for the past few days we’ve been listening to 
a lot of him, so I think he’ll continue to inspire us in 
our process. Other than him, we’re just huge fans of 
different bands. We’re inspired by lots of different 
music, and we can’t help what we hear and what 
we like; I think it’s inevitable that it will seep in 
at some point. ” 
Great Good Fine Ok promises to treat 
prospective festival-goers to a performance 
that will reflect these influences and deliver 
a charm unique to their upbeat brand of 
delectable indie-pop.
“We take a lot of pride in our live 
show, ” Sandler said. “We take it really 
seriously and we love to just have 
a good time … there’s a lot of 
dancing, lights and light up things 
and a lot of energy. Both of 
us love performing so much 
and we feed so much off the 
energy of a crowd. A lot 
of people who see us live 
make the comment that, 
‘Y ou don’t know us until 
you see us live. ’”
—  Karl y  Nisson
A&E EditorHailing from Chicago, Louis the Child are DJ performers 
Freddy Kennett and Robby Hauldren. The young duo 
started tinkering with electronic music at the age of 15. 
Success with their 2015 single “It’s Strange, ” along with multiple 
opening performances for Madeon, The Chainsmokers and Kaskade, 
have since launched them into the spotlight. This year alone, they 
have played at large festivals such as Buku in New Orleans and, most 
recently, Coachella 2016 and are stacked to play at Governor’s Ball, 
Firefly and Red Rocks among many other venues later this year.
More shocking than their quick rise to fame are their ages. 
Hauldren, 19, is a freshman in college and Kennett, 18, hasn’t even 
graduated from high school yet; they have to organize their shows 
around homework and classes, only performing on the weekends.
The pair is often compared to Flume, but more generally they 
associate their thumping beats, chillaxed vocals and smooth notes 
with house and future base. 
At Coachella, the crowd went wild as they dropped familiar 
songs with Louis the Child twists along with their own 
famous singles and new extended play. Their name appeared 
in huge white letters scrawled across a cubed screen at 
their daytime performance in the Sahara tent as grinning 
audience members whooped and danced together while 
the DJ duo bobbed on stage. Multiple times Kennett 
and Hauldren would jump up onto the mixing tables 
to pump up the audience.
While their music is catchy and easy to dance 
to, it isn’t intense. Louis the Child starts their 
sets with popular tunes that get your blood 
pumping, eventually slipping into their more 
experimental, newer music as the crowd 
warms up. Sun God Festival goers are in for 
a treat, and even non-EDM fans will find 
their upbeat, bouncy music accessible as 
they throw out remixes of well known 
sing-along songs.
— Tia  Ikemoto
Contributing Writer(2:20 – 3:05) (1:30 – 2:00)
Paradise Khatibi looks to ignite whatever crowd assembles at 12:40 p.m. on Sun God Saturday. 
In contrast to the vast majority of UCSD students on the fast track to careers in their degrees, 
this performance is exactly what Paradise is searching for: For her, college is a support beam for her 
musical aspirations. 
“This is the best thing that could have happened, ” she told the UCSD Guardian. “For me music has never been the 
background. I’ve always pushed everything else behind. Initially I thought college wasn’t for me, but I decided to come to 
school so I could support myself, to actually pursue my dream of singing so I can actually go after what I want. ”
The Iranian junior points to an eclectic set of influences from her family as inspiration for her specific sound. 
“I listened to a mix of music growing up, ” Paradise told the Guardian. “My brother was into R&B and Eminem, my sister was more into 
Black Eyed Peas, I listened to Shakira, and it’s become a mix of those things. My dad likes John Denver and my mom listened to Dean Martin. 
But we also listened to Persian music around the house. ” 
The intriguing combination of oldies soft rock with hip-hop/rap has resulted in a new style, distinct from the musical tastes of her family members. 
“I would describe myself as folk-pop-rock, ” she explained to the Guardian. “ A mix of Maroon 5, Katy Perry and Jason Mraz. A lot of my songs are super 
personal. Anything that I can relate to or that I find interesting inspires me. There’s no set way I go about writing, it’s just tons of revision. It just happens how it 
happens. For example, the song “Dreamland” I wrote while I was doing community service at a rehab clinic. It’s inspired by the people at the rehab and what it was 
they were trying to fight. ”
“Ruthless, ” on the other hand, proves to be a “super detailed” track “about my ex-boyfriend, ” she said. “That one I’m nervous to play in front of my parents. ”
Fully prepared for the big stage, Paradise brazenly convinces people to cut short their pre-festival rituals and go early on Saturday. 
“Expect fire, ” she declared to the Guardian. “It’s going to be a full-on show. What you’re going to see is the most insane version of me. It’s going to get the crowd going!”
— Peter  Mcinnis    Senior staff WriterILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUUILLUSTRATION BY KARLY NISSON
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LEE10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now readyLearn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856SCAVENGER 
HUNT
FIND THEM ALL
Floral Crowns
Bucket Hats
The “Mom” Friend
The Tall Person Standing In the Front Blocking
 Everyone’s View
Henna Tattoos
Anything With A Feather Or Fringe
Fanny Pack
That One Frat Guy With an American Flag
That One Guy Dressed As a Banana 
(There’s Always One)
Flash Tattoos
Selﬁe Stick
An iPhone Charger (Look For The Power Outlets)
DARES
Help a CSO with Crowd Control
Take a Selﬁe with Someone New
Make a Flower Crown from Grass
Steal a Setlist 
Go Sober and Convince Everyone You’re Wasted
Find the Hydration Station 
(Not a Dare, But a Good Life Decision Overall)
Touch Miguel (Preferably with Consent)
Get Into the Middle of a Mosh Pit or Start Your Own
Sneak Behind the Stage and Find the Snack Table. Brownie 
Points if You Snatch an Actual BrownieConvince Someone You’re with the Band
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
T aurus (April 20 - Ma y 20) 
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Sun God will be an opportune time for Taurus 
to be all about that aesthetic: You’ll probably be donning a nice 
button up — preferably flannel — or a flower crown. And when 
it comes to the music, if it hits the right note, expect to let 
your full-fledged dedication and fandom fly. And Taurus, don’t 
be afraid to try new experiences, even if they are out of your 
comfort zone — but act wisely, you don’t want to end up passed 
out in front of your TA. 
Gemini (Ma y 21 - June 20) 
Written by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Geminis know better than others that Sun God is an 
eventful happening — so many places to be, so many 
people to talk to and so many dance moves to show off. 
While swerving from one location to the other with the 
speed of sound, don’t forget to let your friends know 
where you are. Driven by emotions and excitement, 
you risk spending the night on a bench at a 24-hour 
taco shop, so remember to make a quick call and 
inform your concerned roommates that you are 
doing great/good/fine/OK.    
Cancer (June 21 -Jul y 22) 
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Cancer, use Sun God as an opportunity to 
chat and reconnect with old and new friends, 
using the scene to your advantage as a place to 
forge and strengthen relationships in the middle 
of the mosh pit, on top of the ferris wheel or even 
in line for water. Don’t bail out on Sun God — 
forget about homework or other commitments! 
Y ou need to stay and have fun! And at the very 
least, go so your friends won’t screw them -
selves over. LET GO.
Leo (Jul y 23 - Aug. 22) 
Written by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-
Editor
We all know that Leos always take 
center stage. No surprise that this year’s 
student performer Paradise Khatibi, 
who was born on Aug. 3, ended up 
winning the Battle of the Bands. As for those 
Leos in the audience, do not limit yourself. Y ou 
had a stressful week, so now it’s time to turn 
RIMAC into your oyster — sing as if you’re at 
karaoke, dance as if you’re playing Dance Dance 
Revolution and talk to everyone around you. 
“Being that one person at Sun God” will make 
yours and everyone else’s day a blast.
Aries (March 21 - April 19) 
Written by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Have you ever gone so hard at a show that 
strangers approached you to make sure you were OK 
and didn’t need help? If you were also absolutely sober 
when that happened, you must be Aries! Looks like this 
year you will have enough energy not only to ride that 
wave at the festival, but also to kill it at an afterparty. So 
don’t stop after the last Miguel song — grab your most 
reliable friend and go wherever you are invited. Y ou won’t 
regret it. Virgo (Aug. 23 - Sept. 22) 
Written by Shelby Newallis // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
Virgo is an Earth sign who prefers conservative 
and organized things, and those dependent on them. 
However, this Sun God, put aside your shyness 
and judgmental tendencies to let off some much 
needed steam. Keep close friends nearby, as they 
will most likely find you crowd surfing or trying to sneak 
past security to meet Miguel. 
Libra (Sept. 23 - Oct. 22)  
Written by Christian Gella // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
Libra prides itself on first impressions — after all, 
it is a cardinal sign, which means those under this air 
sign are going to be the ones raising the shot glasses, 
taking selfies and the first to dance. Charming is an 
understatement. Internally, Sun God is their dream-
sequence episode of their own reality television 
show, and so they have to be fabulous. Here’s the 
thing, Libras: Y’all can’t be everywhere at once. No, 
you can’t be front row for Miguel and riding the ferris 
wheel at the same time. Stick to a plan and commit. No 
indecisiveness.
Pisces (Feb. 19 - March 20) 
Written by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Y ou have an innate love for music and will most likely 
be dancing along and singing at the top of your lungs. 
Y ou are considered the natural “mom friend” of every 
squad, especially when the squad hits up events like 
Sun God. As a Pisces, you are always looking after your 
friends and making sure they stay hydrated and happy 
music-festival-goers. Although TritonEd can be opened 
at the touch of your fingertips, try not to stress over 
academics and life too much and just enjoy the festival! Scorpio (Oct. 23 - Nov. 21) 
Written by Shelby Newallis // Lifestyle Senior Staff 
Writer
Y ou’re most likely the “mom” of the 
friend group — a caring, resourceful, true 
friend. This Sun God, your friends will 
need you to be your good ol’ reliable self 
and help that friend — who’s had a little 
too much — find the hydration station. 
Luckily, your calm, cool and collected 
demeanor, allows you to only help your 
friend without it getting in the way of 
having a good time. 
Sagitt arius (Nov. 
22 - Dec. 21) 
Written by Shelby Newallis // Lifestyle 
Senior Staff Writer
Y our fiery spirit and love for travel 
will come full circle this Sun God, when 
you meet a hottie international student. 
Fortunately, the stars are aligned and 
your newfound foreign fling slips you 
an I-House guest wristband with their 
number on it. Y ou decide to proceed 
with caution, following both your 
adventurous and wise instincts.  
Capricorn (Dec. 22 - Jan. 19) 
Written by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
As one of the more responsible signs, you 
know your limits and the many what-not-to-
dos at Sun God. Y our friends won’t have to stress 
over you since you’ll probably be drinking 
enough water and staying a safe distance from the 
mosh pit. Don’t let your strict sense of self-control 
dominate the day — let go, have fun, and try not to 
be a Debbie Downer about your opinions 
on the set-list or how long the lines get. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20 - Feb. 18) 
Written by Christian Gella // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
If someone is loudly singing along or making 
eccentric, drunken comments, they’ve either taken one 
too many shots or are an Aquarius. Ruling the 11th 
house, which deals with friends and organization, this air 
sign thrives at Sun God as it is a place to be with those 
that matter most to Aquarius. Do be yourself and do be 
weird — don’t be too crazy and don’t be the inner rebel 
you are. This means no backstage shenanigans to ask 
Miguel about existential life questions or tell him facts 
about metabolic chemistry.
Don’t know what to expect at this year’s Sun God? Not 
to worry, the Guardian has your daily horoscope to 
help plan for (for all you Virgos out there) and party at 
(looking at you, Aries) Sun God. St ar  Signs 
at   S u n   G o dIllustrations by Alex Liang12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Ranking of Past H eadliners
Ironically, Sun God Festival’s best headliner of the last 10 years 
is also one of the more drug and alcohol-resistant rappers 
in the game: the always-faithful Kendrick Lamar. Though he 
doesn’t necessarily support heavy drinking or smoking, he is 
absolutely up for partying, which comes through in his lively 
performances; he has, in the past, stopped the set when the 
crowd wasn’t rowdy enough. In spite of his position at the 
straightedge end of the spectrum, Kendrick’s incredible body 
of music and knowledge of how to work and excite an audience 
make for a headliner that Sun God Festival has yet to match.
— When he performed at Sun God Festival 2007, T.I. was a 
recognizable name in trap music who gained much of his 
popularity from his collaborations with various artists — Destiny’s 
Child, Justin Timberlake and 2Pac, to name a few. T.I. provided the 
crowd at 2007’s Sun God Festival with a decent performance that was 
fairly enjoyable but mostly forgettable. Like his music, mediocrity can’t 
compare to the other rappers who have headlined Sun God Festival.
— 
Before Pharrell Williams blurred the lines with Robin Thicke and 
got lucky with Daft Punk, he was the lead vocalist and drummer 
for the band N*E*R*D. Formed by Pharrell along with Chad Hugo 
and Shay Haley, N*E*R*D combines rock, hip-hop and funk to 
produce their unique style. Their funky, soulful music got UCSD 
swaying at the 2009 Sun God Festival, but — despite having a name 
reflective of the average UCSD student — N*E*R*D couldn’t quite 
capture the high-intensity vibe that festival-goers crave.
— 
Silversun Pickups, an alternative rock group, headlined in 2012. 
This group isn’t known for flashy visuals or “dance”-ready 
music. Their post-grunge beat and gravelly live vocals are great for 
when you want to chill, but get repetitive after they’ve played their 
well known songs; anyway, there is only so much you can play with 
three chords. For fans of their music it was a great show, but for the 
casual listener who expected to go hard at Sun God Festival, this 
wasn’t their headliner. 
— 
Gerard Way and company disbanded back in 2013 after over a 
decade together, and certainly there were legitimate reasons 
for their dissolution. However, there’s no denying that My Chemical 
Romance’s brand of punk-infused rock, while perhaps more 
pertinent back in 2006, no longer felt as relevant in a contemporary 
age where rap and EDM had become king. True, they garnered their 
share of success, most notably with “Welcome to the Black Parade, ” 
but they now feel strangely out of place amid the more recent Sun 
God Festival headliners. A changing of the guards has occurred, 
ushering in a whole new procession of artists.  
— When Diplo performed at Sun God Festival in 2014, he’ d 
already achieved legendary status among DJs, producers and 
listeners around the globe. His resume included the songs “Paper 
Planes, ” produced alongside his then-girlfriend M.I.A., “Look 
At Me Now, ” the flossy and painfully catchy beat to which Chris 
Brown “gets paper” and a Grammy nomination for Producer of the 
Y ear. Having been on the scene since 2003, Diplo knew just how 
to slay the Sun God Festival audience with his characteristic bass-
heavy, upbeat set. Aligning perfectly with the tastes of the student 
body, Diplo’s popularity and subsequent success at Sun God Festival 
2014 seems to be nothing less than a blessing from Sun God himself. 
Say what you want about Drake, but there’s no denying his 
electrifying stage presence. That at least should place him 
third among our list of Sun God Festival headliners. This 
Canadian hip-hop artist headlined Sun God Festival 2010’s 
diverse lineup, topping the festival off with hit singles like 
“Best I Ever Had” and a freestyle rendition of “The Resistance. ” 
The best part? He hyped up the crowd by picking a random 
girl from the audience and wooing her onstage.
— 
Wiz Khalifa, whose stage name means “wise successor” in 
the Arabic language, was a moderate success at UCSD’s 
2011 Sun God Festival. The hip-hop artist and rapper grew up a 
military brat, and his non-traditional poly-cultural upbringing 
is reflected in his music, from his earliest mixtape debuts as 
an experimenting teenager to his award-winning single “Black 
and Yellow. ” In his undeniably high-energy Sun God Festival 
headlining performance, it was difficult to discern whether 
the audience was more hypnotised by Wiz’s rhythmic rapping 
or the constant bobbing of his black and yellow foxtail keychain, 
attached to slowly sinking slacks.
— UCSD students who planned on attending Sun God Festival 
anticipated the highly charismatic Snoop Dogg to take the 
stage in unforgettable fashion last year. The marijuana enthusiast 
delivered interactive performances of tracks like “Y oung, Wild 
and Free” and the classic “What’s My Name?” that got the 
audience enthusiastically chanting along, a perfect spot in top five 
for audience engagement. Snoop captured the perfect outdoor 
festival vibe with just the right amount of mellow “smoke weed 
everyday” anthems and freestyle raps. And if that wasn’t enough, he 
mischievously wrapped up his performance with a much needed pre-
finals motivation to “smoke weed motherfuckers. ”
— 
— 
ILLUSTRATION USED WITH PERMISSION FROM AS GRAPHIC STUDIO Perhaps “Coheed and Cambria” is simply a band that will never 
appeal to large swaths of concertgoers. After all, few bands 
would proudly advertise that their lyrics are pulled from a very 
nerdy sci-fi comic penned by its frontman. Not to mention that 
their ‘70s prog-rock influences are hardly in fashion these days and 
were perhaps a little daunting to festival goers at 2008’s Sun God 
Festival.
That shouldn’t deter potential fans from giving “Coheed 
and Cambria” a shot, though. Far from being a mere stale ‘70s 
throwback, the band blends an array of influences, from punk 
to soft electronics, into an epic live show full of energy and 
showmanship. It’s no surprise that they will be headlining both 
Reading and Leeds this year.
— PHOTO COURTESY OF TDE
PHOTO COURTESY OF MAD DECENT
PHOTO COURTESY OF COSMOPOLITAN 
PHOTO COURTESY OF WUKAZUKI
PHOTO COURTESY OF ZERAXFIVEMUSIKWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
A famed philosopher 
of the MTV age once 
sang “video killed the 
radio star, ” and John Carney’s 
“Sing Street” is a tribute to that 
unequivocal truth. It’s what 
some might call a return to form 
for the director, landing closer to 
his previous work in “Once” and 
paving the way for some lively 
musical numbers set against 
the backdrop of Dublin circa 
1985. In this respect, it’s another 
highly personal entry, and 
Carney does well to grab hold of 
the coming-of-age narrative. 
Our main point of interest is 
Conor (Ferdia W alsh-Peelo), a lad 
thrown into a new school straight 
from hell and, of course, there’s a 
girl. What follows is the inception 
of an entire band, the eponymous 
Sing Street, all in the name of 
getting to know said girl. It’s that 
simple and it works … sort of.By all accounts she’s an 
untouchable goddess, a year older 
than him, with a mature boyfriend 
and aspirations of modeling in 
England. And yet Raphina (Lucy 
Boynton) deigns to stoop to their 
level and take part in their first 
foray into music video-making. 
It’s in such moments that the film 
unabashedly hoists up its ‘80s 
sensibilities, suggesting Carney’s 
own personal affection for that 
day and age. Because amid all the 
god-awful make-up, outrageous 
costumes and mimicry of the 
new-wave scene, there’s still a 
sense of appreciation. Every boy 
has gone through these different 
phases, like a sponge soaking up 
all conceivable inspirations. In 
this case, Conor’s older brother 
Brendan becomes his pontificating 
Buddha, exposing him to every 
musical influence from Duran 
Duran to The Cure.But Conor’s band also 
develops into a wonderfully 
liberating force to combat the 
furies of the world. At school he 
is consumed by grand illusions 
of “Back to the Future”-themed 
prom nights at an American-
style high school. Meanwhile, 
his parents are continually 
squabbling at home and his 
dream girl leaves for London 
without a word of goodbye. 
Still, he uses his newfound 
outlet, with the guidance of his 
brother, to turn his stray thoughts 
and accumulating angst into 
something worth remembering. 
In fact, for each of the boys, 
there’s a matter-of-fact gravity to 
it all, because forming a band is a 
serious business — it’s a concerted 
effort to avoid the grisly fate of yet 
another gutted cover band. 
Like any formative tale 
about young men and women, “Sing Street” suggests the vital 
importance of personal identity 
and chasing after dreams. 
It’s evident with Conor as he 
constantly dons new facades, not 
simply in a search for greater 
artistic expression, but for 
personal freedom. 
However, he breaks with his big 
brother in what he actually does 
with the inspiration that has been 
passed down to him from the rock 
gods. He uses its whole potential 
as a gateway to the way of life that 
he desires — making the most of 
the opportunities that are afforded 
him even if they are a long shot. 
As the movie progresses, Raphina 
looks younger and younger, and 
it hardly seems by accident. Over 
time, she sheds layer after layer of 
makeup and manicuring to reveal 
a bit more of herself until the 
tipping point where all her dreams 
come cascading down, and she has 
nowhere to hide. It’s in her most 
fragile moments that she finally 
accepts herself as a beautifully 
complicated, broken work of art.Admittedly, “Sing Street” has 
a ludicrous ending and there are 
moments where it tilts towards the 
plastic production values of “Begin 
Again” rather than the sincerity of 
“Once, ” but that’s a lot of what the 
‘80s feels like: fake. It’s defined by 
artificial constructions projected 
up on a screen. That’s precisely 
what this film is saluting and 
celebrating, but that’s only the half 
of it. Raphina rightfully points out 
that you can never do art halfway. 
That’s what rock ‘n’ roll is in a 
sense. It’s audacious exploration, 
risk-taking and a bit of foolishness 
in the name of chasing after 
your dreams, usually involving a 
girl. Thus, the film is not wholly 
original, even for Carney, who has 
drunk from the same well three 
times over, but, like any seasoned 
artist, he’s able to discover fresh 
inspiration from old cisterns.
— Tynan  Y anaga
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
FILM   REVIEW
sing  street
Writer-Director John Carney returns to his love of music, delivering 
a nostalgic ode to the ‘80s that is both amusing and poignant. 
Directed by   John Carney
Starring   Ferdia Walsh-Peelo, Lucy Boynton 
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  April 15B
12345678910
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTION14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Trek Tandem Double Cross T100 - $300. 
Has some upgraded components. Needs 
new family. Listing ID: 2578560020 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
6KU Bike - $215. Fixed gear/free wheel. 
Comes with drop bars and a light. Still in 
terrific condition and rides great. Trying to 
sell ASAP and local meet ups only please. 
Listing ID: 257856016 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Cannondale SR500 Road Bicycle (Large) - 
$300. This bike has treated me well. Hope it 
does the same for the buyer. The bike fea -
tures are as follows: large aluminum frame, 
carbon fork with head shock Mavic racing 
rims, Shimano Tiagra shifters, Shimano 105 
Crankset. Last model that was made in the 
U.S. Listing ID: 257856013 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Nintendo 3DS XL Black - $290. Used only a 
few times. Looks good as new. Comes with 
DS, original charger, original stylus, five 
games and a Luigi carrying case. Listing ID: 
257856088 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Texas Instruments TI-nspire CX CAS - $100. 
Perfect working graphing calculator. $140 
new. No charger included. Listing ID: 257856079 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Nikon DSLR D3200 - $290. Includes camera 
case, charger and camera itself. Listing ID: 
257856082 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
New Love Seat/Sofa - $130. Got it from 
Living Spaces three months ago. Listing ID: 
257856096 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Mattress Topper - $65. Completely new, 
machine washable mattress topper for full 
mattress. Listing ID: 257856097 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
IKEA Firm Mattress - $180. IKEA firm full 
mattress only. Less than a year old. Listing 
ID: 257856090 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
W\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel:1234 Level:1234
SUDOKU
ULTRAZONE LASER
TAG IS HIRING! 
WE ARE LOOKING FOR OUR 
NEXT GREAT EMPLOYEE for 
WEEKENDS and for SUMMER.  
Are you hard working? 
Dedicated? Really outgoing?  
You can actually have an 
exciting job!
Contact us at 
employment@
ultrazonesandiego.com.
State your name and contact cell number.
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
LOST-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabies
follow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitters #sgfbabiesHarbor baby sun god with silver-gray fur.
Answers to the name of “Tiffany”. 
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 2 years old. 
Loves music and beary cute things. Last seen
basking in the sun at La Jolla Cove.  what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
consent
consent
ask for it
SHOW Y OUR SUPPOR T
  AskForConsent.org©2016 Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
be clear on consent.
be clear on consent.
A SLURRED YESSH
DOESN’T MEAN YES.Over this past weekend, the 
UCSD men’s and women’s track 
and field teams hosted the Triton 
Invitational at the Triton Track 
and Field Stadium. The two-day 
Triton Invitational, taking place on 
Friday and Saturday, boasted over 
1,500 competitors including a few 
Olympians and Olympic hopefuls. 
Among these competitors were 
American Olympian Jeneba Tarmoh, 
reigning Olympic long-jumper 
Greg Rutherford and 2015 World 
Champion in shot put Joe Kovacs. 
On Friday, six Tritons 
participated in various events, the 
first of which started at 9:30 a.m. 
Junior Chrissi Carr represented 
the women’s team in the pole vault 
event where she tied for 11th with 
a clearance of 11’5.75” . Teammate sophomore Devin Stetson was also 
able to clear the 11’5.75” height, but 
was placed lower, at 16th, due to 
more attempts being taken. 
In the hammer throw 
competition, junior Savanna Forry 
placed 39th with a distance of 147’9” . 
In the discus competition freshman 
Esther Nofodji took 31st with a 
distance of 139’6” while teammate 
sophomore Hannah Johnson took 
44th with a distance of 127’6” .
On the following day, the 
men’s 4x100 relay team won the 
race competition with a time of 
41.35, as freshman Andrew Dirks, 
sophomores Justin Hunter and Paul 
Doan and junior Emmanuel Elijah, 
made up the award-winning formula. 
Doan had an impressive meet where 
he also placed first among collegiate athlete competition for the 100m 
with a time of 10.68, which was 10th 
overall in the competition. Doan 
also competed in the 200m where he 
finished with a 21.48 time, allowing 
him to qualify for provisionals with 
the 12th overall time. 
“I was pretty juiced coming into 
this meet because there were a lot 
of high-class athletes here, ” Doan 
told the UCSD Athletics Division. “I 
just felt that I had to come out here, 
compete with them and hopefully 
come up with a PR, which I did. I 
was pretty happy. ”
Teammate sophomore Nick 
Famolaro also grabbed a provisional 
qualifier with a personal best 
recorded at 1:52.31 in the 800m 
competition, earning him eighth 
place. For the women’s 800m, teammates sophomore Kristin 
Semancsin and junior Ella Verhees 
were also able to record their 
personal best run times of 2:17.20 
and 2:17.34, respectively.
During the women’s high jump, 
Forry managed to rank sixth in 
the invitational section for clearing 
5’5” . Teammate freshman Natalie 
Caraway also cleared the 5’5” mark 
to win the open section. 
For the men’s triple jump, 
sophomore Matt Bowen won with 
a distance of 48’3.25” while on the 
women’s side, seniors Kristin Sato, 
Kristen Daugherty, Ashley Rhorer, 
and Caraway placed fifth through 
eighth place, with distances of 37’7.25” , 
37’6.75” , 37’1” , and 37’0.5” , respectively. 
As for the women’s 400m 
hurdles, freshman Kelly Strand and sophomore Meghan Fletcher took 
home seventh and eighth place but 
narrowly missed the provisional 
mark of 1:02.40. 
Redshirt senior Ellexi Snover was 
able to finish ninth in the women’s 
javelin throw with a throw of 132’3” 
while teammate senior Haley Libuit 
finished 14th with a throw of 125’11” . 
For the men’s javelin throw, redshirt 
senior Anthony Capitulo and senior 
Travis Vandegriff threw distances 
of 205’11” and 199’4” to take home 
eighth and 10th, respectively. 
After hosting such a popular 
invitational, the Tritons will be 
heading to the CCAA Championships 
in two weeks which will be hosted by 
Cal State Los Angeles. Written by Gurkirat Singh //  Senior Staff Writer 
Photo by Christian Duarte  /  UCSD GUARDIANTriton Invitational
UCSD’s Track athletes win men’s 
4x100 and 100 meter race
readers can contact
Gurkira t SIngh    gsingh@ucsd.edu SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER  &  DEV  JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
$$""1MBZPGGT#FHJO'PS4PGUCBMM
Heading into the the California Collegiate Athletic Association tournament with a 33–19 overall record and 23–15 in 
CCAA play, the Tritons find themselves in fourth place, just enough for a tournament berth. UCSD finished the regular 
season on a high note, sweeping the final doubleheader against Cal State San Marcos. 
Unfortunately for the team, it gets a lot harder from here on out. 
UCSD
The Triton bullpen ranked sixth in the conference. Led by senior pitcher 
Lexi Edwards, the group finished with an ERA of 3.06, allowing 378 hits, 177 
runs and 25 home runs. UCSD’s batters also had a strong season, with a batting 
average of .301 off of 410 hits and 252 runs but just 12 home runs. The team 
ranked fourth in on-base percentage, with a commendable .378 average.  
Sophomore outfielder Kelsi Maday stood out on offense with a batting 
average of .376, earning 59 hits, 50 runs and a team-high five home runs. Maday 
and Maddy Lewis each had no trouble getting on base, making a trip to at least 
first base 46.5 and 44.2 percent of the time, respectively. Humboldt State
First up on the docket is Humboldt State, which the Tritons split their games 
against. Coming into the tournament on a 20-game winning streak, the 45–3 
Lumberjacks will prove to be a tough test for the Tritons. Interestingly enough, 
UCSD actually handed Humboldt State its last loss of the season on March 31, 
a game that ended in a final score of 6–5. 
With an ERA of 1.26, the Lumberjack pitchers lead the conference, having 
allowed just 257 hits and 10 home runs for the season. The Lumberjack hitters 
are similarly impressive, with a batting average of .299 off of 391 hits, 274 runs 
and a conference-best 36 home runs. They don’t have a problem getting on base 
either; with an on-base percentage of 0.402, the Tritons will likely have their 
hands full during all phases of the game.
Chico State
If the Tritons get past the Lumberjacks, they very well may find 
themselves facing second-seed Chico State. Facing off against the Wildcats 
four times this season, the Tritons were only able to steal one win against the 
36–12 Chico State team. 
The Wildcat pitchers, while not as impressive as the Lumberjack bullpen, 
rank second in the conference thanks to their ERA of 1.81. Allowing just 234 
hits, 116 runs and just nine home runs, Chico State would be just as tough a 
matchup for the Tritons. The offense is no slouch either, as it finished with a 
batting average of .298 for 382 hits, 18 home runs and an on-base percentage 
of 0.381.Sonoma State
The final scenario, if the Tritons make it past the Lumberjacks, is a game 
against the Seawolves. Despite having a worse overall record than the Wildcats 
and the Lumberjacks, the 32–20–1 Seawolves proved to be a tough matchup for 
UCSD, as they split their four games in the regular season.
Continuing the trend of strong pitching, the Seawolves’ bullpen ranks third 
in the conference with an ERA of 2.20. Led by junior pitcher Amanda Llerena, 
with an ERA of 1.63, their pitchers allowed 338 hits, 158 runs and 21 home 
runs on the season. Arguably the weaker aspect of their game, the Seawolves’ 
hitters ranked seventh in the conference in both batting average and on-base 
percentage. Still, they were able to get 414 hits, 216 runs and 25 home runs.VS
VS
Written by  Alex Wu // Senior Staff Writer  Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  
N
O
R
T
H
 
P 
O 
I 
N 
T 
 
D
R
I
V
ESun God Festival 2014 Set List
More info can be found at 
sungodfestival.ucsd. edu
+
RIMAC
ARENA+ + H20
MORE INFO CAN BE FOUND AT SGF .UCSD.EDUKSDT  
LOUNGESUN GOD FESTIVAL
MAP 2016
RIDGE WALKEXIT
E
N
T
R
A
N
C
ESGF VENDORSHOPKINS DRIVE
ROCKSTAR  LOUNGESUN 
GOD
STAGE
BUBBLE 
STATIONBUBBLE 
STATION
FOOD  
TRUCK
TRITON  
OUTFITTERSSGF 
VENDORS
FM 94.9 
EXPERIENCE LI’L SUN GOD’S GENDER 
NEUTRAL RESTROOMFIRST AID/INFO WATER H20
+
H20+
SUN GOD
MEMORY 
WALL