VOLUME 50, ISSUE 18   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 21, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FRIENDS OF
RESALE SHOP
THE FRIENDS RESALE SHOP , 
CURRENTLY LOCATED AT 
THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER 
COMPLEX, HAS BEEN PART OF 
CAMPUS SINCE 1986. READ 
ABOUT ITS VIBRANT COMMUNITY 
AND UNCERTAIN FUTURE.
SUPPORTING  STUDENTS
ROAD TO KCTHE   ROLE  OF   TEACHING   ASSIST ANTS
Men's  soccerOPINION, P AGE 4
Sports,  P age 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“FINALLY, THE PRESIDENT 
OF THE PHILIPPINES, A MAN 
WHO ONCE ADMITTED TO 
ADMIRING HITLER’S “WORK” 
AND WHO IS WAGING A WAR 
AGAINST DRUG ADDICTS 
INSTEAD OF LOOKING TO 
HELP THEM, CONGRATULAT -
ED TRUMP ON HIS VICTORY.” 
- Marcus Thuillier
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
HULLABALOO  .................. 2
SCHOOL WALK-OUTS  ......4
FEATURE  ......................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
CROSS COUNTRY  .......... 12FEA TURES,  P AGE 7
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 62 L 54TUESDAY
H 64 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 51THURSDAY 
H 73 L 48
UCSD students gathered on 
Library Walk on Friday for 
an early recognition of the 
Transgender Day of Remembrance, 
where they commemorated lives lost 
as a result of transphobic violence and 
raised awareness of acts of brutality 
carried out against the transgender 
community. The official Transgender 
Day of Remembrance took place on 
Sunday, being held on Nov. 20 since its 
inception in 1998. 
Members of the UCSD LGBT 
Resource Center lit candles and 
displayed pictures of 26 transgender 
individuals who died in transphobia-
motivated attacks this year. Illustrations 
of transgender rights activists within 
the community, including Laverne 
Cox, an actress and television producer, and Amanda Simpson, a 
defense industry veteran and senior 
technical advisor of the Department 
of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and 
Security, were also featured. 
The first TDOR began in 1998 
when Gwendolyn Ann Smith, a 
transgender advocate, held a vigil to 
memorialize transgender men and 
women who were killed in violent 
attacks. According to the LGBT media 
source GLAAD, formerly known as 
the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against 
Defamation, Smith believed such an 
observance was necessary. 
“The Transgender Day of 
Remembrance seeks to highlight the 
losses we face due to anti-transgender 
bigotry and violence, ” Smith said. “I 
am no stranger to the need to fight for 
our rights, and the right to simply exist 
is first and foremost. With so many 
seeking to erase transgender people — sometimes in the most brutal ways 
possible —  it is vitally important that 
those we lose are remembered, and 
that we continue to fight for justice. ”
Vanessa Villacorta, an Eleanor 
Roosevelt College junior and student 
volunteer at the UCSD LGBT Center, 
talked about the day of observance 
with the UCSD Guardian.
“[Transgender Day of 
Remembrance] is basically to 
bring awareness of the violence 
that continues to be inflicted on 
the transgender community to this 
day, ” Villacorta said. “But it’s also to 
honor those who still continue to 
struggle today and who are surviving 
and their resilience. Also, it’s a bit 
about how transgender violence has 
an inherent connection to things like 
race, gender and class. It’s important Students Could 
Face Tuition 
Hike Next 
Academic YearUC SYSTEM
The rise in tuition is intended 
to account for the increasing 
numbers of undergraduate 
and graduate students 
enrolling at the UC campuses. 
University of California and 
California State University students 
may face a tuition increase next year 
if the UC Board of Regents and the 
Board of Trustees approve UC and 
CSU officials’ request in January. 
The proposed tuition increase 
would raise prices for California 
state residents by about $300 per 
year, Nathan Brostrom, UC’s chief 
financial officer said at a Regents 
committee meeting on Wednesday.
The tuition increase is designed 
to help cover the costs of rising 
undergraduate and graduate student 
enrollment across the UC system. 
In 2015, regents voted to enroll an 
additional 10,000 undergraduate 
students over a three-year period. This 
includes increasing the number of 
transfer and in-state students.
Currently, the price of tuition across 
all UC campuses is $12,294, but each 
campus has additional, unique campus-
based fees which brings the average 
cost across all eight undergraduate 
campuses to about $13,500.
University officials claim that 
more than half of UC students pay 
less than $13,500, however, due 
to financial aid and scholarships. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
explained at the Wednesday meeting 
that more than half of UC students 
graduate with no debt.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
Anahi Ibarra, a biochemistry and cell 
biology major, expressed displeasure at 
the proposed hikes.
“I feel that education should be 
more accessible, and raising tuition 
doesn’t allow that, ” she explained. 
“Especially with all the malpractice 
and misuse of funds [by university 
officials], raising tuition seems unfair. ”
This proposal comes on the heels of 
recent allegations against UC Berkeley 
Chancellor Nicholas Dirks for misuse 
of funds, as well as the revelation of 
UC Davis Chancellor Linda Katehi’s 
pepper-spray incident cover-up. Both 
chancellors have since resigned for 
unspecified reasons.
ERC sophomore Casey O’Hara, an 
international studies – history major, 
thinks that the price increase is a 
response to voter preferences. 
“W ell, it seems to me that this is a 
recurring problem, and it’s a recurring 
problem due more to the state’s funding 
program than to the administration, ” 
O’Hara clarified. “Personally, I’d blame 
the voters’ unwillingness to raise taxes 
in order to help subsidize tuition, 
through property taxes and whatnot, 
because without that, the university 
doesn’t have a lot of choice. ”
According to the 2014–15 budget 
for current operations summary, “State 
funding to the University [of California 
system] has declined by over 30 percent 
since 1999–2000, or 1.2 billion dollars. 
Over this same period, the number of 
California high school graduates has 
soared, and [the UC system] has grown 
by nearly 77,000 new students and 
opened a tenth campus. ” Hundreds Demand UCSD Be a Sanctuary Campus  
In a Nov. 17 letter addressed to Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla, Interim Executive Vice Chancellor Peter 
Cowhey and members of the Academic Senate, 
hundreds of faculty and community members called 
for administrative legislation that would make UCSD a 
sanctuary campus. This, according to the letter, would 
lessen the “grave threat” to undocumented students 
and faculty posed by President-elect Donald Trump’s 
proposed immigration policies. 
Directly mentioning Trump’s policies, the letter 
asks explicitly for measures that would make UCSD a 
sanctuary campus. 
“We call upon the university to immediately 
undertake measures to make the campus a sanctuary 
for undocumented and other students, staff, contract 
workers, and their families who have been targeted 
by President-elect Trump’s proposed policies, ” the 
letter stated.
Assistant professor of sociology Abigail Andrews 
and assistant professor of political science Tom Wong 
coordinated the letter with help from the UCSD 
Faculty Collective.
“We want to send a message that UCSD embraces 
all of our community and that no matter Trump’s 
policies UCSD will take concrete measures to protect every one of its members, ” Andrews wrote in an email 
to the UCSD Guardian.
Signed by 248 faculty members and 801 community 
members as of Sunday, the joint letter included a list of 
nine “actionable steps” that the Academic Senate and the 
university administration could take in order to make 
UCSD a sanctuary campus.
One calls for UCSD to reaffirm its policy against 
cooperating with authorities from U.S. Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement in carrying out raids and 
deportations. Another urges the university administration 
to expand legal services for undocumented students, 
staff, workers and their families, citing UCLA, UC 
Irvine and UC Berkeley, universities that currently fund 
on-campus immigration attorneys.
Earl Warren College senior Clara Bird said she 
signed the letter to show support for her friends from 
other countries. 
“I signed to show I care about their well-being, ” Bird 
told the UCSD Guardian. “ All educational institutions 
should be a place where students can feel safe, regardless 
of where they are from or what they are going through 
at home. ” 
When asked about the number of signatures the letter 
had received since it was made public on Thursday, Bird B y  MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO    ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORASCE
Event Held Remembering Transgender Community
The LGBT Resource Center placed a display on Library W alk for Transgender Day of RemembranceSee SANCTUARY , page 3
CAMPUS
BY  J u l i e  Y i p
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See REMEMBRANCE  , page 3
BY   P R O M I T A  N A N DY 
STAFF WRITER
Isaiah Rashad headlined Hullabaloo this past Friday night, performing after Tennyson and Andrew Luce, respectively.
Photo by Christian Duarte// UCSD Guardian
UCSD
PROMIT A NAND Y  PNANDY@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.orgUCSD’s sixth annual Hullabaloo 
took place on Friday, Nov. 18 in 
Matthews Quad and Town Square as 
part of the celebration for Founders 
Day. The event was first organized 
in 2011 by Associated Students 
Concerts and Events to add a student 
component to Founders Day.
After the Founders Day 
celebration from noon to 2 p.m. on 
Friday, Hullabaloo transformed “the 
center of campus into an explosion of 
lights, colors and music to celebrate 
the bright and passionate UC San 
Diego spirit” when it opened its 
doors at 8 p.m. This year’s festival 
had music, rides and food provided 
by HDH, Taco Villa, Goody’s and 
Yogurt World. 
For the concert part of the 
event, ASCE assembled a lineup of 
headliner Isaiah Rashad, flanked by 
Andrew Luce and Tennyson, who 
all performed on a stage set up in 
Town Center. Tennyson opened up 
on stage, followed by Andrew Luce 
and Rashad, whose performance included “Free Lunch” and “What’s 
Wrong” from his latest album “The 
Sun’s Tirade, ” and “Heavenly Father” 
from his debut album “Cilvia Demo. ”
Marshall College sophomore 
Amber Fossier told the UCSD 
Guardian that while she had never 
listened to any of the artists’ music 
before, she did like Luce’s act.
“I didn’t know any of the artists 
prior to attending Hullabaloo, but I 
enjoyed Andrew Luce’s set, ” Fossier 
said.
Earl Warren College sophomore 
Henry Guerra was impressed by the 
response to Rashad’s headlining.
“For me, I felt like this year 
was much more exciting, and that 
people were more energetic for 
Isaiah Rashad, ” Guerra said. “I was 
surprised to see that the majority of 
people around me were completely 
into Rashad’s music. I didn’t initially 
think Rashad would’ve been a good 
pick for UCSD, but I was so happy 
to see everyone around me have a 
good time. ”
Warren senior Nicole Farrales 
noted that she preferred the 2016 
lineup to last year’s.“I did go to last year’s, and I 
thought this year’s was better 
because of the headliner Isaiah 
Rashad, ” Farrales told the Guardian. 
“My favorite performance was 
Isaiah Rashad’s entire set because 
his sound is easy to vibe to, and the 
crowd was all really into it. ”
Farrales, who also worked for 
One Stop and is regularly in contact 
with members of the Associated 
Students, added that she felt 
ASCE did well with keeping the 
student body in mind when finding 
performers.
“I do really feel that the artists 
were chosen for the UCSD population, 
because ASCE is very diligent with 
surveying students and requesting 
feedback and opinions on potential 
performers [and] events, ” Farrales 
stated. “ ASCE is a group of extremely 
dedicated people who always prioritize 
the interests of their fellow students, 
and they deserve much more credit 
than they get. ”
The event offered a variety of 
ride choices to all attendees, with 
a trio of the Zipper, the Round Up 
and the Hurricane all set up across Matthews Quad. 
Fossier explained that all three 
rides shared a line, making the wait 
particularly long.
“I was really excited to go on the 
rides, but the line was very long, 
and I didn’t feel like it was worth 
it because I heard that the wait was 
about an hour to an hour and a 
half, ” Fossier said. “ Apparently [in] 
the years before the lines for the 
rides were individual and not just 
one large line that feeds into the 
different rides, so I feel like the old 
system was better. ”
Given that the food provided 
was not unique to the event, Fossier 
opted out of buying anything from 
the vendors as well. 
“I didn’t have any of the food 
and didn’t go on the rides mainly 
because the food was just the food 
trucks that are on campus normally, 
and I didn’t feel like that was special 
or anything, ” Fossier stated.
Hullabaloo went late into the 
night, with Rashad taking the stage 
around 11 p.m. and the rides closing 
at 11:45 p.m.2016 Founders Day Celebration Culminates at ASCE’s Hullabaloo 
The event included performances from Isaiah Rashad, Tennyson and Andrew Luce, as well as several amusement rides and food. CAMPUS
BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r 
Managing Editor
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Is Jose Lynn on 
grindr? #StopTokenizingJoselynn 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia  Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage SchubertEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Sports Associate Editor
Features Editor
Features Associate Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Miguel Sheker
follow us on instagramNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Julie  YIP  jlyip@ucsd.eduMA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu
to commemorate transgender lives not 
only just this day … you have to think 
about it every day. ”  
Injustice at Every Turn is a report 
presenting data from the National 
Transgender Discrimination Survey. 
The report stipulates that 2016 has 
seen the most violent acts against 
transgender people in comparison to 
all other years on record. As of now, 26 
individuals’ deaths have been reported. 
In 2015, 21 transgender people were 
reportedly killed, many of whom were 
both transgender and of color.
According to Villacorta, steps to 
create a safer environment on the UCSD campus include designating 
more bathrooms as gender-neutral and 
allowing incoming students to have 
the option of defining their gender 
pronoun before coming to UCSD. 
“I think we’ve been working on 
[having a more open campus climate], ” 
Villacorta told the Guardian. “Our 
director of the LGBT Center is working 
on getting gender pronouns so you can 
write them in or choose them when 
you’re coming into this school, so 
your professor knows your preferred 
gender pronoun. That’s a really big 
thing they’re working on right now, 
and we’ve been working on a while. It’s 
finally coming into existence. ” 
In order to help create a more inclusive, safer climate, Villacorta 
recommends that UCSD students 
use “I” statements, respect gender 
pronouns and not refer to all people by 
one gender. Words such as “folks” and 
“y’all” can help promote more inclusive 
language. 
In order to help increase 
visibility of the transgender and 
gender nonconforming community 
and recognize the struggles these 
individuals encounter, people 
across the U.S. also participated in 
Transgender Awareness Week, which 
took place Nov. 14 through Nov. 20. attributed the strong support to the 
community at UCSD.
“The support that this petition has 
received is a direct reflection of our 
diversity, academic prestige and caring 
community, ” Bird said.
Immigration reform was one of 
the main themes of President-elect 
Trump’s campaign and continues to 
be a top priority as he and his team 
prepare for the White House.
At the end of October, the 
President-elect announced his 100-
day plan, called “Donald Trump’s 
Contract With The American Voter, ” 
in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where he 
outlined his intention to remove “two 
million criminal illegal immigrants” 
and cancel all federal funding to 
Sanctuary Cities. 
It’s unclear how the Trump 
administration will respond to 
“sanctuary campuses, ” which have 
formed around the country following 
Trump’s election. 
Chancellor Timothy White of the 
California State University system 
expressed his support for the concept of sanctuary campuses in a recent 
interview with Time magazine. 
“We want people to know that 
they will be welcome here if they lack 
documentation or not, ” White said. 
“The concern that has arisen with 
respect to many of our students and 
their families is real and has become 
debilitating, and I want our students 
to know — and I want our faculty and 
staff communities to know — that 
we support these students, that we 
understand the times we’re in, but 
we’re going to be there to support 
them and help them succeed, whatever 
comes our way. ” 
White’s University of California 
counterpart President Janet 
Napolitano issued a post-election 
letter signed by her and 10 other 
UC leaders reaffirming that they 
“remain absolutely committed 
to supporting all members of our 
community and adhering to UC’s 
Principles Against Intolerance,” 
but the UC President has yet to 
make a public statement regarding 
sanctuary campuses specifically.
As Director of Homeland Security 
under the Obama administration in 2012, Napolitano carried out 
the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals policy, which halted 
deportation of migrants who came 
into the country as children.
President-elect Trump intends 
to repeal DACA, promising to 
“immediately terminate President 
Obama’s two illegal executive 
amnesties” so that “anyone who 
enters the U.S. illegally is subject to 
deportation. ”
Andrews believes the immigration 
reform the Trump administration 
plans to implement would be 
detrimental to the creativity and sense 
of community in the United States, 
stating that immigrants are like “wind 
in our sails. ” 
“They work hard, have families, 
and of course they are also a very large 
percentage of students and workers 
at our universities, especially UCSD, ” 
Andrews said. “By saying UCSD is a 
sanctuary campus, the university says 
that no human being deserves to live 
in fear of losing his or her livelihood, 
friends or family. ” ▶ SANCTUARY,  from page 1President-Elect Trump’s Stance on Sanctuary Campuses Is Still Unknown 
▶ REMEMBRANCE,  from page 1The LGBT Resource Center Is W orking to Make UCSD More Inclusivelike   us  
               o n   f b  
@UCSD
GUARDIAN
A.S. Safe Rides
Free Uber ride up to $10 for all UCSD students
You don’t have to be a first time 
Uber user to get the free credit.
Link your UCSD email to your Uber 
account, and enter in this quarter’s 
promo code!
ASUCSD x Uber
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeEnjoy your free ride (up to $10) between 8pm- 3am,
Wednesday through Sunday. 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Unless a class action lawsuit has 
him impeached, Donald Trump will 
be the 45th President of the United 
States. His election has led to its 
share of protest and outrage in the 
streets, some still going on in major 
U.S. cities. Across the globe, the 
initial shock of the results has been 
replaced by growing concerns as to                                 
how the president-elect will handle 
international affairs for the United 
States of America.
A June poll by the Pew Research 
Center highlighted that only nine 
percent of all Europeans surveyed 
had confidence in Donald Trump 
to “do the right thing” when it 
came to global affairs. Compare 
that with a CNN survey taken a few 
days after the election of Trump 
where almost half the Americans 
surveyed reported negative feelings 
toward the future of the country, 
and you can see that, regardless 
of how extreme the reaction in 
the United States has been, other 
countries feel even worse than we 
do about the future of America and 
the world. 
Several countries have 
welcomed the news of Donald 
Trump with great rejoice. Russia 
has made it no secret that its 
President Vladimir Putin, who 
has been hijacking the Russian 
presidency for the good part of two 
decades, supports President-elect 
Trump. North Korea has also been 
fairly open about its enthusiasm at 
the prospect of future endeavors 
with the U.S. Finally, the president 
of the Philippines, a man who 
once admitted to admiring Hitler’s 
“work” and who is waging a war 
against drug addicts instead of 
looking to help them, congratulated 
Trump on his victory. 
Others did not extend open arms. 
In February of 2016, the Beijing 
Review called Donald Trump “an 
unprecedented joke. ” Criticism has 
also come from other European 
countries, Germany and England; our 
neighbors, Canada and Mexico; and 
other countries with direct interests 
in American policy, such as Japan. 
One major difference between these 
countries and the United States is that 
Donald Trump was actually supported 
by major political candidates of his 
party, whereas in other countries only 
some extreme-right ones were trying 
to surf the populism wave that Donald 
Trump rode. 
Trump’s success can be attributed 
to populism, and — as the recent 
referendum for Brexit revealed — 
populism is in no way limited to 
the United States. An August 2015 
article by the German newspaper 
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
pointed out that “[Trump is] the 
outsized American version of a 
populist phenomenon that can also 
be observed in other Western states, 
especially in West Europe. ” The 
author of the article continued by 
saying that “in American society, a 
political and social atmosphere has 
developed that rewards this type of 
bullying rhetoric. ”
Regardless of how quickly 
populism is spreading across Europe, 
the election of a populist candidate 
in the United States remains, for 
now, an exception among developed 
countries, and the newfound “allies” 
that the United States have in Russia 
and North Korea will face heavy 
opposition by countries who voiced 
concerns about the election of a 
bigot to head the United States.Marcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBETrump: Beyond 
An American 
Problem
Many of us are reluctant to bring 
politics into the classroom. In the 
past, this may have been advisable. 
But now that xenophobia and 
misogyny are a mainstream political 
stance, I think it is irresponsible.
This election puts those 
looking to avoid discussing 
politics in our professional lives 
in an uncomfortable position. Is 
denouncing hatred being partisan? 
Could we be jeopardizing our careers 
by endorsing tolerance? 
What’s important to recognize is that we do not actually avoid sending 
messages by remaining silent. In 
this climate, where intolerance is on 
everyone’s mind and fear is palpable, 
silence is an active and conspicuous 
choice, just like speech. If we avoid 
mentioning xenophobia because 
it is now political, we should be 
wary of implicitly endorsing it. If 
we don’t denounce the real threats 
faced by many of our students, we 
risk implying that those threats don’t 
matter to us. If we are going to send 
a message regardless, we might as BY ADAM MORGAN // GRAD STUDENT, PSYCHOLOGY DEPARTMENT
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
See SOLIDARITY , page 5In the eyes of some, Trump’s election has paved 
untraveled ground for T As and faculty alike. In a 
political climate wherein hatred becomes increasingly 
normalied, what is their role in aiding affected students?
QUICK TAKESAMONG THE PROTESTS SPARKED BY LAST WEEK’S ELECTION RESULTS, SCHOOL WALK-OUTS HAVE PROVEN TO BE A 
POPULAR METHOD OF DEMONSTRATION FOR STUDENTS. DOES THE RESULTING ACTION OUTWEIGH LOST CLASS TIME?
School Walk-Outs Prove Less Effective and Substantial 
than Demonsrations that Involve, Engage and Support
At university campuses across California, thousands of students 
voluntarily engaged in protests that, for the most part, were nonviolent. 
These protests, however, were not limited to college institutions, as many 
high school students found themselves involved as well. According to CBS, 
hundreds of students marched through downtown San Diego earlier this 
week. Although these students weren’t even of voting age, they agreed that 
protesting alleviated emotional tensions in a communal fashion. Despite not 
having support from their silenced administration and even getting shamed 
by some adults, they managed to use their constitutional rights to express 
what their votes didn’t allow them to do. Furthermore, it became their 
method of notifying the public that adolescents are opinionated and that 
their voices matter as well. 
It may seem to some that protesting is futile in changing the fact that 
Donald Trump won the election. However, protesting is necessary not 
just for the sake of change but also for the well-being of the people who 
are expressing their despair rather than keeping it bottled up inside. In 
this case, it also provides adolescents the opportunity to participate in 
our government’s democracy, which in the long run will prepare them to 
become educated citizens. Our future depends on the minds of the youth. 
To deprive them of such rights would undermine ourselves rather than 
promote progress. 
Freedom of speech is a gift embedded in our constitution and should 
not be taken for granted. As long as cautious measures are being taken to 
prevent violence, individuals should feel free and encouraged to express 
their opinions. Simply missing one day of class will not jeopardize their 
entire education. It is more valuable to make a move on pressing issues 
before it’s too late. America is rich in its history of past movements that 
emerged because of groups who took part in protests, and if it weren’t for 
such protests, America would not be as great as it is today. As with the 
LGBT and Civil Rights movements, it is evident that those who spoke up for 
themselves were the reason for such changes. 
             — JENNIFER RICO  
Contributing WriterIt was no small feat: Thousands of high school and university students 
across the nation marched through streets and neighborhoods protesting the 
announcement of Donald Trump’s victory as the president-elect. Yet, while these 
protests relay to officials and citizens across the country that this election has left 
more than one individual unhappy, it is vital that these protestors continue to act 
in ways that will enable further discourse and change within their government. 
Widespread strikes, forums, and public gatherings are some of the several 
more feasible forms of protest that would give students more opportunities to 
promote discussion and change within their nation. Student walk-outs merely 
take away valuable education from students and, in certain cases, promote 
violence instead of peaceful action. Take, for instance, the walk-outs in Los 
Angeles where protesters, including students from various high schools and 
UCLA, blocked traffic, broke windows and set trash bins on fire, according 
to the Los Angeles Times. While these forms of action may allow students to 
express their discontent and disapproval with their government, the violence 
blocks further discussion between individuals with differing opinions due to 
the anger and potential hatred they develop toward one another. 
Writing petitions and scheduling forums designed to provide emotional 
support to minorities prove to be much more positive forms of reacting to 
this election, as a Latino rights group named Voces de la Frontera has done, 
according to the New Y ork Times. Other civil rights and immigrant rights 
groups have also begun raising money for social programs that they believe 
Trump will cut. Likewise, communities have begun holding conference calls and 
collective organizations to discuss legislation and future issues that may arise. At 
UCSD itself, some students and professors have organized meetings and forums 
for discussion about the election and actions that should be taken in response, 
such as the ones hosted at Groundwork Books and by the department of 
sociology. So, while walk-outs may be a simple way for students to express their 
beliefs surrounding this year’ s election, students can create a more profound 
impact on their community by becoming more involved in local organizations 
and groups which promote necessary discourse and encourage lasting change.
                                 — EMILY COLLINS
                             Staff WriterIn Allowing for Communal and Public Expression of  
Frustration, Walk-Out Serves as Effective Protest Method
Op-Ed: 
Open Letter to 
UCSD Faculty, 
Administrators, 
Graduate 
Students and 
TAsOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
your vision , our missio n.Your on-campus, s tudent-run , 
custom screen prin ting s ervice 
complete with graphic desig n 
capabilities and m erchandise
available from:
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd. eduCONTACT US TODAY FOR A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE 10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER (minimum 36 shirts) Ć EXPIRES 12/31/16
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSwell make it one of solidarity.
As teachers, this is a professional 
responsibility. Many of our students 
will now have to divide their energy 
between studying and worrying 
about the risk of deportation, 
hate crimes, being entered into a 
Muslim database, losing workplace 
protections, losing reproductive 
rights and/or losing access to 
healthcare. If we inadvertently 
foster the wrong kind of 
environment, we are contributing 
to the negative impact this will 
have on our most vulnerable 
students’ learning. In many cases, 
these will be the students who have 
the most to gain from an education. 
We should use our position of 
power to mitigate this as much as possible.
The current climate of 
xenophobia and intolerance is not 
new. What is new is that it has been 
legitimized in some sense, and its 
proponents have been empowered. 
At a university with so many ties 
to immigrant communities, we will 
be especially affected by this. From 
now on, we should regularly tell 
our students that we welcome them 
for who they are, that we celebrate 
our differences and that we support 
their right to study and live without 
fear or anxiety. We should list the 
most vulnerable communities by 
name: African Americans, non-
citizen residents (both documented 
and undocumented), Latinos, 
Muslims, women, LGBTQIA 
people, and those who rely on the 
Affordable Care Act for their well-being. We must make sure they 
know that they are welcome and 
valued here at UCSD. They will not 
know unless we tell them. And they 
will notice if we say nothing.
I have a sign on my office door 
that affirms all of my students 
and lists threatened communities 
by name. In addition to talking 
to your classes, I encourage you 
to post similar signs, and to keep 
them up.
Sincerely,
Adam Morgan
a1morgan@ucsd.edu
Graduate Student, Psychology  
     Department
ADAM MORGAN     A1MORGAN@UCSD.EDU▶ SOLIDARITY , from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
UCSD has always prided itself on welcoming students 
from all over the world to an enriching and, most of 
all, diverse environment. The International Center 
was created to cater to these students’ needs, and consists of 
a variety of services in order to do so.  However, the recent 
decision to move its location has affected a lot of these 
services, such as the weekly conversation groups.
The Friends Resale shop in International Center was 
established at UCSD in 1986. To the decidedly small section 
of UCSD that knows about its existence, it is seen as simply 
a thrift store of sorts. Recently, with the administration’s 
decision to move the entire location of the International 
Center, including all the communities and service stations 
it encompasses, the shop is under even more risk of being 
pushed into the shadows. But its manager, Marion Spors, told 
the UCSD Guardian a side of the story that many students on 
campus would be surprised to know, or never realized existed.
Spors welcomed the Guardian to the Friends Resale shop, 
opening the doors to a quaint but cozy space decorated with 
clothes, ornaments, books and much more. “Everything you 
see here is donated. It’s a community effort, ” she said as she 
walked around the shop proudly, showcasing the remodelling 
efforts she made two years ago. Every corner of the shop is 
filled with fascinating artifacts from around the world, which 
are handed from student to student when they bring memoirs 
from their respective home countries.
The items in the shop are donated from around the local 
La Jolla community by places such as the National Charity 
League and Las Petronas. Most clothes are recycled or 
reused; they are washed and bleached before being put up for 
sale. Compared to places like the UCSD bookstore or even 
Target, useful things like lab coats and safety goggles can be 
purchased for much less at the Friends shop ($8 instead of 
about $35).
“We have the best prices in town! Even better than 
Goodwill and the Salvation Army, ” Spors boasted as she described the benefits of having such reasonable prices 
in a more accessible place, as many students do not have 
cars or must take one-hour bus rides to get to places like 
Target or Walmart. “We even have better quality clothes. 
Our shop carries a lot of designer labels — spread the 
word!” Spors laughed.
She went on to explain how the shop’s services and low 
prices help a lot of students who come to America with barely 
any realistic means of survival. 
“I think undergraduates are taken care of better, but I get 
a lot more graduate students coming to me like, ‘I thought 
California was warm, ’ so I help them put together a list of 
jackets, or cutlery, basic essentials, all under $10, and they 
leave much happier. ”
There were more places like this at the International 
Center that have worked to help students, such as the nearby 
store, which sold cheap blankets, mattresses and linens, 
with which students could save nearly $100. The moving of 
the International Center broke up this group of tight-knit 
communities, bringing many of these programs to an end.
“Before, the entire International Center was filled with 
people for different events, such as International Friday Café 
and potlucks. People would bring food from their different 
cultures, share it with everyone, and make a speech about 
what’s special about their home country, ” Spors said. 
Events like these were designed for intercultural exchange 
but also to make people less homesick. “Because when you 
come to a new country you are pretty lonely and often times 
quite lost, even though your written English is quite good. 
And I felt it was part of my mission to help those people, since 
I know what it is like because I came from Germany as an 
EAP student to UCLA many years ago, ” Spors added.
Intercultural interaction is a major part of why the shop 
thrives, especially given its original location. “We donate the 
profits of the shop to the international study abroad program 
for scholarships, and the students who are selected attend 
See FRIENDS RESALE , page 8Retail Therapy 
How the Friends Resale Shop helps international students find their footing.
by Susanti Sarkar // Staff Writer
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
by Noam Leead // Staff Writer
To most students, the legal process is not generally associated with words like 
“fun” or “uplifting. ” On the contrary, many students see legal procedures as 
expensive, stressful and frustrating. 
Imagine a group of students move to an off-campus apartment and put down a 
security deposit of $3,000. At the end of the year, upon moving out of the apartment, 
their landlord claims damages and keeps the security deposit. All of a sudden the 
students are defenseless and out thousands of dollars.  
What the students needed was an attorney to represent them and to give them 
legal advice. They would have been informed to print proof, which includes some 
documents and an inspection checklist. 
Luckily, Student Legal Services has provided UCSD students with two free attorneys. 
Both have worked to ease students’ stress and frustration by helping them make 
informed legal decisions. 
SLS works to create a positive legal experience that is both educational and 
conducive to all students. It has reached out to students who might not have reached 
out themselves, and has provided legal services to them and many others.
The UCSD Guardian sat down with these SLS attorneys. The first is Jon Carlos 
Senour, who, as the director of SLS oversees legal counseling, referrals and education, 
among other legal procedures on campus. The second is Mary Anan, a UCSD graduate 
who now serves as the assistant director of SLS.
The duo provide individual counseling appointments to students on a variety of 
issues. Most often these include landlord and tenant issues or tickets of some sort. 
Other students seek legal advice because they’re looking to start a business or patent an 
app. Some just visit SLS for advice regarding law schools or internship opportunities. 
Whatever the issue may be, both attorneys are ready to tackle the task at hand.  
Either Anan or Senour will sit down with each student for about an hour, figuring 
out how the law applies to the student’s particular case. Taking a full hour permits 
them to be thorough, but it also reduces the amount of students they can see per day, 
typically to three.
“It’s frustrating, but I’m also proud that we can give them a whole hour of our time, ” 
Anan told the Guardian. “I can’t even imagine trying to do our job with only 30-minute 
appointments, which some schools do. ”
Both attorneys do their best to keep the environment stress-free, so students feel 
more comfortable coming to them for help. SLS reminds students that they can come 
in and talk to its two free attorneys before they have a legal issue, not just after.
“We send an email out every spring quarter saying we’ll look at your lease before 
you sign it, ” Senour told the Guardian. “We see students about pretty much any and all 
legal issues. ”
SLS knows that an email won’t get most students to come out and use its services, so 
in recent years it has been offering an increasing amount of useful workshops.  
The formal workshop SLS offers is called “Discover the Law, ” which comes around 
every winter quarter. It’s a legal education program, designed to empower students 
to make informed legal decisions by providing them with legal information and 
ultimately life skills. 
Most workshops are conducted by one of the two attorneys, but occasionally guest 
speakers and panels will add to the conversation. Although the program is not offered 
for academic credit, students can receive various certificates of achievements for 
attending a minimum of four workshops.
SLS also produces other types of workshops for Greek Life and residence halls. 
These generally consist of workshops on alcohol charges and moving off campus in the 
spring, but they have also done workshops on First Amendment and free speech rights.   
Both attorneys are also very open to doing any type of custom workshop. As long as 
there is enough time and communication, SLS is happy to be of assistance.  
“It’s always fun to do a custom workshop, ” Anan told the Guardian. “It’s a little extra 
work to do those types of workshops, but they’re fun because I get to research new 
areas of law. ”
Prior to working for SLS at UCSD, Anan specialized in bankruptcy and bankruptcy 
litigation in her private practice. UCSD has definitely provided both her and Senour 
with diverse legal issues that keep them on their toes.
“Sometimes it’s funny because we don’t have the answers, so we have to tell students, 
‘Ok, I’ll go do some research, and I’ll get back to you, ’” Anan told the Guardian. “But 
we’re never bored. There’s always something interesting or unique or strange to work 
on. Revelle College [once] asked us to do a workshop on revenge pornography, if it was 
legal. It was kind of funny to Google that at work. ”
Mary has also done a presentation in International House regarding tips for traveling 
overseas and for students who are here on a visa without U.S. citizenship.
The diverse campus at UCSD has provided a plethora of different legal issues which 
both Anan and Senour have tackled. Their willingness to go above and beyond seems, 
remarkably, to stem from the nature of the students themselves.
“I feel like we tend to be helping people who really need it, and that’s one of the 
difficulties of the practice of law, ” Senour told the Guardian. “The folks who can afford 
to pay you are not always the ones you want to be working for. We’re typically on the 
right side of things, and that’s just a really great feeling. ”
Both Anan and Senour are employed by UCSD, so their services, like other helpful 
services on campus, are completely free to students. SLS has actually made it a priority 
to stay interconnected with important services on campus, as well as people who 
remain primary student outlets.
By doing so, SLS gets referrals from dean’s offices, staff, faculty and Counseling and 
Psychological Services, which all encourage students to seek legal aid.
“We’ll have folks who are stressed out about the eviction notice or ticket they just 
got, and these are barriers to academic success, ” Senour told the Guardian. “So CAPS 
will send them our way, and of course if somebody comes to us and they’re clearly 
experiencing a lot of stress we often refer them to CAPS. ”
SLS has been able to create a welcoming legal environment for UCSD students. 
Whether that’s fostered through one-on-one appointments, workshops or campus 
outreach, the team of attorneys continues to provide for students.  
As both Anan and Senour see more students become interested in rather than 
intimidated by the law, they are inspired to keep up their hard work.  
“I love my job, ” Senour told the Guardian. “I don’t know how many attorneys can 
say that. ”
More  Knowledge,  Less  Stress:  Student  Legal  Services  a t  UCSD
At one time or another, students may find themselves in need of legal assistance. The Guardian sat down with Student Legal Services to learn about the many ways that they help students.
Noam  Leead    NLEEAD@ucsd,eduPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianIllustration by Alex Liang8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Tucked away at the end of a third-floor hallway in the literature building, 
you’ll come across a curious door. Plastered over it are mid-century 
publications, most in German, dealing with a variety of subject matter 
from Nazism to Nietzsche; the highlight is a large sign announcing “Leaving 
the American Sector. ” This is the office of professor William Arctander 
O’Brien, the genial Bronx-accented literature professor who has taught a 
myriad of subjects at UCSD since 1986. Come to his office hours, and he’ll 
regale you with stories of Cold War-era Germany, post-structuralist theory, 
and tales from a life dedicated to studying all forms of the humanities.
Born in New Y ork City in the early 1950s, O’Brien found himself at the 
crossroads of two worlds from the very beginning. Though both his parents 
were educated in Ivy League universities, he grew up in a working class 
neighborhood that was decidedly less cultured. He often found himself at odds 
with his peers, particularly at the parochial Catholic school he attended, a place 
where he holds few fond memories.
“It was totally oppressive — it had students full of fear. We would get beaten 
up and worse, ” O’Brien told the UCSD Guardian. “ And, you know, that’s fed 
into the culture of the students themselves, who were pretty violent. I got 
beaten up a lot because I was the smart kid, and it wasn’t fun for me. A reign 
of terror is what it was. ”
O’Brien found solace in this toxic environment at home, where his parents, 
both teachers, fostered a spirit of learning and education for him and his three 
siblings. He still feels a debt of gratitude to them for the unwavering support 
they provided early in his life.
“My parents saved all for their kids and spent it on nice schools for their 
kids — four kids. And we never knew that they were scrimping at all. Life was 
ok and they never mentioned ‘you owe me. ’ They were extremely generous in 
that way, ” O’Brien said.
O’Brien switched to public school at age 15, attending Christopher 
Columbus High School in the Bronx. The new environment gave the young 
man a breath of fresh air. He could go to co-ed classrooms, deal with less 
uptight teachers and even start classes at 11 a.m., a good fit for his late-to-
rise lifestyle.
It was also at this point in his adolescence that O’Brien, inspired by the 
rapidly changing culture around him, began to question the fabric of his Irish-
Catholic upbringing. 
“I started to question things when I was around 13. It was 1967 so 
things were changing in a big way culturally ... [it] was one of freedom and 
questioning authority, ” O’Brien said. “So that got to me pretty seriously and I 
started to question things. It was not that big a deal letting Catholicism go — it 
was just like a release to let it all go. ”
He bought completely into the cultural revolution of the 1960s, becoming 
a “wacky hippie” for two years. Surprisingly, he didn’t even plan on attending 
college at the time — his path to academia began practically on a whim.
“I met a girl who was going to university, so I decided I would go to university 
and then we’ d be together forever and ever and ever, ” O’Brien described.
O’Brien started at Binghamton University in New Y ork and, upon realizing 
that he loved life at university, transferred to Cornell two years later. There, 
after taking English and French poetry classes his first semester, the young 
upstart crafted his own liberal arts major: humanism and its literary expression.
“I’m a little embarrassed now about its presumptuous title, ” O’Brien chuckled.One field that stood out to him in particular was German literature of the 
18th century, particularly Romanticism. The budding Germanophile studied 
abroad his fourth year, taking intensive language courses with the Goethe-
Institut in both Munich and Göttingen. Following a trip to Paris, O’Brien 
returned to Germany on a Fulbright scholarship and studied at the University 
of Stuttgart. Over the years, O’Brien has returned to Germany many times, 
studying manuscripts by writers and philosophers from Novalis to Nietzsche; 
most notably, he visited East Germany the year before the Berlin Wall fell. 
There he stumbled into a world that Americans at the time knew little about 
when a taxi driver invited him to stay at his house.
“So the rest of this little research trip I went back to his house and got to 
know his family — and of course it was wild to have an American there. So I 
got to know his extended family and friends at parties where I would be the 
specimen of honor, ” O’Brien discussed.
His broad education and open mind won him many connections on the 
other side of the iron curtain, and his knowledge of Marx especially came in 
handy when he struck up a friendship with a committed communist. Despite 
initial apprehensions, he found the people of East Germany to be very inviting.
“People lived with the Russian and East German boot above their heads 
— very controlled society. But also, it was less developed than the West, and 
families were stronger and friendship was stronger, and people were warmer 
than the people I had dealt with in what was then called West Germany, ” 
O’Brien reminisced.
After returning from Stuttgart he received his B.A. from Cornell, then a 
Ph.D. from the Humanities Center at Johns Hopkins University. For five years 
he taught in the German department at the University of Virginia, a place he 
came to loathe for being “racist and narrow-minded. ” He finally came to UCSD 
in 1986 after answering a job advertisement that seemed to have his name on 
it: a position for someone who taught German as well as comparative literature 
and philosophy. Over the years he has taught on just about any subject 
imaginable, from German to comparative literature to classes on famous 
figures such as Bob Dylan and Edgar Allen Poe.
A common theme in O’Brien’s life seems to be his ability to relate to and 
bond with a diverse array of people, no matter their backgrounds. Through 
the years he has met several famous philosophers and personalities, including 
Allen Ginsberg, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Jacque Derrida and Timothy Leary. Many 
of them have become the subject of his literature classes, which he teaches in 25 
to 30 student discussions. A conversationalist, O’Brien prefers the intimacy of 
these small groups because they allow him to bond with the students and have 
an active dialogue with them about the subject matter.
“Good teaching first of all begins with respect and care for your students. 
Not just as students, but as people, ” he says. “ All the students are people in your 
class, and your class is a group of people together. We should have a sense of 
each other as a group. ”
Now in his 30th year of teaching at UCSD, O’Brien doesn’t see an end to his 
career anywhere in sight.
“The main reason is I love it, I really love teaching. Secondly, I need the 
money, so I’ll keep going for the money. But the main thing is I love it, I wanna 
keep doing it as long as I can, and I’ll stop when either I can’t do it or when 
students are no longer interested in what I’m teaching and doing, ” O’Brien said.
Based on how well he engages his classroom, the students won’t lose interest 
for a long time.
Oliver  kel ton    okelton@ucsd,eduthe study abroad scholarship dinner when they come back, and they have all 
these stories to tell that are amazing to hear, ” Spors said. A huge part of why 
many students forgo the idea of studying abroad is the cost, since they also 
often cannot take the same number of units as they would here, so parents 
may see it as a waste of money. These scholarships help as much as possible to 
broaden students’ horizons. “The average American doesn’t travel much, and 
our mission is to make everyone as culturally aware as possible, especially since 
what happened on Tuesday [November 8th]; we need to make sure people 
feel safe here. We raised about $50,000 last year, and it went to the scholarship 
program, ” Spors said.
Another way Spors strives to make international students feel more 
welcome is the volunteer system at the Friends shop. Spouses of those who 
come to the U.S. with a work or student visa often cannot work themselves, 
even though they hold accomplished college degrees in their home countries.  
“We provide a place where they can come and volunteer, sharpen their English 
skills, make friends — our main mission, and that’s why you see in the shop 
the ‘Friends’ sign everywhere. We provide a home to foster community and 
friendship with intercultural exchange, ” Spors said.  Among the 16 volunteers 
at this time, six countries are represented, which opens even more boundaries 
as a way of getting to know people from countries that one has never been to 
or heard much about.
“Whenever you get into the shop, you will hear more than one language. 
It's a wonderful place for people to come, like Tuesday is German day. People 
asked me if I could teach them some words. Or they can learn Spanish or 
Hindi, and the person who can [teach it] comes and sits down with them for a 
couple of hours, ” Spors said.
Some of the volunteers are local, and a few have worked there for 20 years. 
One program, an original reason for the founding of many small programs 
within the I-Center, involves matching a local with an international student 
for traditional American experiences, such as Thanksgiving. Both parties gain 
new and interesting knowledge about each other, making unexpected friends 
while at the same time giving the shop a well-suited name.
“We have so much represented in the shop, and I think people don't know 
that we are so much more than just a retail shop. It’s like a safe haven for a lot 
of folks. Y ou’re not being judged.  Students come and say, ‘Oh, it’s my retail therapy … can I talk to you? We call it the free international counselling 
services!” Spors said jokingly. “School is tough. So this is a place we play music, 
we want you to relax and be able to speak to someone. ”
This deep connection that some students have developed with the shop 
and the Center made it very difficult when administrators decided to move the 
International Center, taking down everything within it.
“When we heard the Center was about to be torn down, we were very 
concerned about our services, ” Spors said.
She described how many people were involved in running and 
participating in the Center and shop’s activity — 16 people, along with at 
least 30 or so customers who come every day, even just to enjoy and spend 
some time at the shop. “We were very concerned about losing that, there was 
a lot of … conversation with the administration, ” Spors told the Guardian 
with a deep sigh. 
Pearl Tangri, a volunteer at the shop, described the pains they had to 
go through. “I came to UCSD with my husband who is a postdoc here, 
so I can’t work.  I decided to volunteer at the shop, and it really helped, 
and I made a lot of friends. So we were all heartbroken when we heard 
the news, but a lot of people protested, and it was even covered by ABC 
News, ” Tangri said. The protest involved over 1000 students signing a 
petition that demanded the Friends Shop to continue its services, as well 
as coverage by a local news station.
After a long-fought battle and despite all these obstacles, their efforts paid 
off, and now the Friends Resale Shop finally has something to celebrate: a 
move to a possibly more promising location. The cheerful community feel and 
welcoming nature that the International Center used to radiate before, when all 
the pieces of the jigsaw were under one roof, will be sorely missed. 
Nonetheless, Spors remains hopeful for the future, and grateful for the 
continuation of the shop’s services. “But we are very happy to be moving 
across the street, to the Academic Senate building on Library Walk. It’s a new 
modern space. ”
“We’re very excited about it, ” Spors said, going on to describe how she plans 
to check out the space in more detail and order some painting touch-ups to be 
done. She hopes to carry on her mission of helping more people connect with 
different cultures and making their transition to a new country a little easier.▶ FRIENDS RESALE , from page 6
Susanti  Sarkar    s5sarkar@ucsd,edu
BEHIND THE LECTERN
William O’Brien – Leaving the American Sector By Oliver Kelton / / Features EditorCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
TORI ROSE &
JOHNNY ALEXANDER
LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSETahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 21 - NOV 272016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 11.21 WED11.23FRI11.25  • 6:30pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE11.22
WINTER REGISTRATION WITH 
RECREATION CLASSES - UC SAN 
DIEGO
Winter Registration is now open! Check out and 
register for a variety of classes, trips and 
programs from UC San Diego Recreation. 
#GetRecd Contact: ucsdrecmarketing@gmail.com
10am
YOGA ZONE: VINYASA - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
An invigorating and dynamic style of yoga in 
which breath and movement are linked in a 
flowing sequence to create heat, flexibility, 
strength, and awareness. Originating from the 
practice of Ashtanga, this style is also referred to 
as 'flow yoga' or 'vinyasa flow'. Led by FitLife 
instructor Laura McIntire. Yoga classes are free; 
blocks and yoga mats. Space is limited and is 
first come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12:30pm
LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES FOR 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS - 
COMUNIDAD ROOM, CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER, PC EAST 2ND 
FLOOR
Interested in leadership positions but do not know 
where to start? - Come and talk to staffs to see 
what qualities are looked for in leaders! - Meet 
the awesome Int RA and OL to learn about their 
stories! - Learn about campus resources to know 
where you can build up leadership skills! Know 
where to start and let's go! Contact: 
warrenoutreach@ucsd.edu
5pm
MATHEMATICAL BEAUTY IN ROME 
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION - 
STUDY ABROAD OFFICE DANCE 
HALL (BACK OF BUILDING)
Meet Professor Joseph Pasquale and learn about 
the courses and excursions for the Mathematical 
Beauty in Rome Global Seminar. We will also 
discuss financial aid, scholarships, and the 
application process. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTER PRESENTS: 
THE HUNGER GAMES - THE LOFT
Come to The Loft for a FREE showing screening of 
the first Hunger Games movie on November 21st! 
Wind down and relax before Thanksgiving break 
while cheering on Katniss Everdeen and Peeta 
Melark as they fight to the death for District 12! 
The odds will definitely be in favor at this show! 
DOORS: 7PM SHOW: 7:30PM FREE Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduCHECK OUT THE WINTER 
QUARTER 2017 ACADEMIC 
FRESHMAN SEMINAR LIST!  - 
UCSD CAMPUS
The Freshman Seminar Program offers a wide 
variety of academic topics in a small class 
format for freshmen. *Get to know your 
professor  *Meet freshmen *The small class 
size encourages class discussion  *Receive 
one-unit of credit on a P/NP basis Students 
enroll through WebReg during the freshman 
enrollment period with regular classes. 
Seminars are open to freshmen (and 
first-year freshmen with sophomore 
standing). Seminars can be a great 
educational experience and compliment your 
regular classes! Check out the seminar 
website for course descriptions, schedules 
and pre-enrollment instructions for incoming 
freshmen who have advance standing. 
Contact: aburcham@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: CANVAS WALL ART - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Paint your own canvas! Artists of all skill levels 
welcome :) Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHOIR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Directed by Ken Anderson, the UC San Diego 
Gospel Choir combines hundreds of voices to fill 
Mandeville Auditorium with the uplifting sound 
of African American spirituals, blues, traditional 
songs and gospel. Tickets GA: $15.50, UC San 
Diego faculty, staff, Friends of Music and 
alumni: $5.50, students w/ ID: free Contact: 
mroos@ucsd.ed
FRI11.25 SAT11.26
5pm
UCSD WOMEN'S BASKETBALL V.S. 
SAGINAW VALLEY STATE - RIMAC 
AREN
Come out and watch your UCSD Women's 
Basketball battle against Saginaw Valley State! 
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6pm
FOODIE FRIDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUS
Foodie Fridays: Theatergoers with a love for 
delicious eats and music are invited to attend 
Foodie Fridays, where a ticket to select Playhouse 
performances also includes access to San Diego's 
finest food trucks! Dates: November 11 - God 
Save the Cuisine. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org3pm
UCSD WOMEN'S BASKETBALL V.S. 
AZUSA PACIFIC - RIMAC ARENA
Come out and watch your UCSD Women's 
Basketball team battle against Azusa Pacific!  
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6:50pm
SONIC SATURDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Sonic Saturdays: Enjoy complimentary beer 
tastings and live music from local San Diego 
musicians, Tori Roze and Johnny Alexander, 
before the show!
Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1   ‘’Where the Wild Things ---’’
4.   Optimistic
10. Ann or May
14. Stout creator of Nero Wolfe?
15. Cavern
16. Litmus-reddening substance
17. Cause of a blowup
18. Start of a warning to mudslingers
20. Apprehensive
22. Nobel laureate Sakharov
23. Split
24. Memphis-to-Nashville dir.
25. Chop finely
28. Footrest
31. Nativity scene setting
32. Canoeist’s trudge
35. Chronicle
36. Part 2 of the warning
40. Sucker
41. Ache or pain, e.g.
42. Flashing light
45. Observers of the midnight sun
49. Investor’s holding
50. Lousy
52. Irked
53. Like some pools or sports
55. On the up and up
57. End of the warning
60. Candle count
61. Decorative water server
62. Muzzle loader
63. It’s either positive or negative
64. One-seater race
65. Praises mightily
66. Cell’s protein producerown
1  Conductor Toscanini
2. Milk curdler
3. Scope
4. Sounds of disgust
5. Quarry
6. Greet the king
7. ‘’Training Day’’ actor Hawke
8. Make amends
9. Lincoln’s wife
10. A --- point (example)
11. With great poignancy
12. Dainty dish of blackbirds
13. Mag. bosses
19. Racy role for Shirley
21. Ratify
24. It may require a fee
26. Corp. bigshots
27. Unit of energy
29. ‘’The --- Squad’’
30. Begin a revolt
31. Emulates Frosty
33. Teller’s sub
34. Looked slackjawed
36. Swearing-in pledge
37. Lifted
38. Fried rice cooker
39. Out of place
40. Sound at a fish fry
43. Cantankerous
44. Hospital capacity
46. Fuzzy yarn
47. Territory explored by Lewis and Clark
48. One of a noted sister act
50. Crystals used in soap and glass
51. Mealtime lure
54. Storybook brute
55. Granny, for one
56. Lottery chances
57. Waikiki wear
58. Have the rights to
59. Modern addressTEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 
4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationCoffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FREE Electric cement mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In work -
ing condition but note wheels are broken.
Pick up from DeakinLast Edited Condition 
Used... Pictures and contact information on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 310101715 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
TICKETS
Okkervil River & Landlady - Belly Up Solana 
Beach, Sat. Oct. 1 - $30 - Okkervil River 
(opener: Landlady - a good band), Sat, 
October 1, 8:00 pm, 2 general admission 
tickets, Belly Up in Solana Beach. Should be 
a great show but I can’t go. Selling for under 
face value (bellyup.com: $20 advance). 
Email to arrange pick up. I’ll be in North 
Park Thurs night, or on campus Friday. 
Cash only please. Listing ID: 309778538 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
World Crawl San Diego - Club Crawl 2016 
- What You Get 4-6 Venues in 1 Night We 
start early! Just be prepared, it’s a long 
night! We typically go to two bars and three 
nightclubs. Sometimes more, sometimes 
less. The night has an exciting progres -
sion throughout the evening. Pace yourself 
people! Some of the final venues we hit are 
the most popular and exciting nightclubs 
in the world! Get involved at the start of 
the night, because that’s where a lot of the 
magic happens. The people you meet at 
the start of the night are your pals (or more) 
through the evening. Party on people. 2-5 
Drink Tickets & Specials At up to $14 / drink, 
picking up some drinks in San Diego can be 
expensive! That’s why we get you half way 
there. We will hook you up some a drink 
ticket at some venues. Some are good for 
highballs and beers, and some are good 
for a shot off. Either way, you’re going to 
be saving over $40 in drinks alone. Not 
to mention that we’re going to play a few 
rounds of flip cup, beer pong, and some 
other games that we’ll supply the drinks for. 
Listing ID: 310101778 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Ghastly - OMNIA FRIDAYS - Bottle Service 
:: 619.602.XXXX. Listing ID: 310101777 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972La Jolla  
Dental Group  
is looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one 
male and one female. 
 If interested, please 
email resume to office@
lajolladentalgroup.com
ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
Visit accb.ucsd.edu or on Facebook @AllCampusCommuterBoard for more information on 
commuter events and programs.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Monday
Dec. 5th
10pmThe UCSD women’s soccer 
team’s incredible season and playoff 
came to an end last Friday, Nov. 18 
after a nail-biting match against No. 
1 Western Washington University. 
After beating Azusa Pacific 
University 4–2, the No. 9 Tritons 
had advanced to the NCAA Sweet 16 
and faced the Vikings at Colorado 
School of Mines. Unfortunately, 
the Tritons were defeated 2–1 
in overtime and finished with a 
remarkable 19–3 overall record. 
The unmatched Tritons stayed 
toe-to-toe with the overall favored 
Vikings. It was in fact UCSD’s junior 
midfielder Jordyn McNutt who 
struck first in the 32nd minute of 
regulation for her sixth goal of the 
year. Junior defender Aimee Ellis 
was awarded the assist after she 
delivered a far cross to the opposite 
field. Just before it went out of 
bounds, McNutt managed to chip 
the ball into the opposite post and 
make it a one-nil lead. 
Eight minutes into the second 
half, WWU’s sophomore forward 
Gabriela Pelogi tied the game and 
forced overtime with her first goal 
of the match. She and her teammate 
senior defender Erin Russell 
connected a cross from the left and 
delivered the perfect strike.
Pelogi wasn’t done there, though. 
Just two minutes into overtime, she 
played a ball that had been lofted 
on a counterattack. She managed to 
draw the Tritons’ senior goalkeeper 
Itzel Gonzalez and sneak the ball 
under her, going inside the left post and securing a Viking victory. 
The Tritons’ offense struggled 
to get much going for most of the 
match and were outshot 17–9 by 
WWU. However, their defense 
continued to put up solid plays and 
kept the team in the discussion. 
“[It was a] game that could’ve 
gone [either] way, both teams were 
creating chances,” critiqued head 
coach Brian McManus. “I think 
[WWU] could go all the way and 
win. And we gave them as hard of 
a game today as they’ll have the rest 
of the way. ” 
The undefeated WWU moves on 
to play in the quarterfinals against 
home team Colorado Mines. The 
team improved to an overall 17–0–1 
and claimed the West Region Title.The Tritons’ season was truly 
a historic one. UCSD capped off 
its season with an overall record 
of 19–3–0, a feat the team had not 
accomplished since the 2010 season. 
The team also finished first overall 
in its conference with a 12–0 CCAA 
record. This was the first time in 
history UCSD women’s soccer had 
not lost a conference match in 
a full season. One most notable 
performance was by Gonzalez 
and her back four defenders. 
They managed to put up a nine-
game shutout streak, all against  
conference teams.  
UCSD will be parting with 
seniors Gonzalez, midfielders 
Jamie Benedetto, Kiera Bocchino, 
Kristen Sampietro and defender            Meghan Berry.
“Massive losses,” commented 
McManus. “But we have a core of 
17 players who have experience 
playing with those players. These 
five seniors left us in good shape 
and hopefully the 17 remaining can 
carry it on from there. ”
If history says anything, it’s that 
UCSD will continue to get better and 
better. In the past several seasons, 
UCSD went from not reaching 
the postseason, to getting into the 
CCAA tournament, to going toward 
the NCAA tournament and now to 
finishing among the Sweet 16. they fought hard to the end. ”
Sophomore Vincent Kiprop of 
Missouri Southern University won 
the race in 29:07.4, while Adams 
State University won the team 
title with 54 points. The NCAA 
West Region champs, Chico State, 
finished in fourth with 166 points. 
This marked the last cross 
country race for Gee and Alwafai. 
Gee gradually improved over his 
four seasons, from being a scorer in 
only a couple of races his freshman 
year to being a consistent top scorer 
in his final season. Alwafai, who 
was co-freshman of the year in his 
2012 season, had been a steady 
fixture for the team. He ran his way 
to the NCAA Championships his 
sophomore year as an individual, 
where he improved UCSD’s course 
record. Gee and Alwafai finish 
their illustrious seasons with 
All-CCAA and All-West Region 
honors. Alwafai also twice earned 
UCSDtritons.com Athlete of the 
Week accolades. 
Though UCSD will be losing 
two reliable runners in Gee and 
Alwafai, 10 Tritons from the 
women’s side and 12 from the men’s 
will be returning next season. Gee and Alwafai 
are Graduating 
Seniors Competing 
in their Final 
Collegiate Race
▶CROSS COUNTRY ,  from page 12
Stellar Season Ends With Tough Loss to No. 1 Western Washington
UCSD finishes the season at 19-3 in the Sweet Sixteen with a 2-1 loss to the Vikings. After opening the 
score in the 32nd minute, the Tritons saw WWU equalize and finally score the winning goal in overtime.WOMEN'S  SOCCER
BY   D a n i e l   H e r n a n d e z
Senior Staff Writer
Daniel  Hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd,eduPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
While UCSD was still 
asleep, two seniors, 
Brendan Gee and 
Tareq Alwafai, competed in 
the NCAA Division II Cross Country Championships in St. 
Leo, Florida last weekend. They 
qualified as individuals two weeks 
ago in the NCAA West Region 
Championships by finishing in the 
top 10 of their 10K race. At St. 
Leo, Gee crossed the finish line 
in 59th (31:41.5) and Alwafai in 101st (32:17.7), both respectably 
finishing in the top half of the 242-
man race.  
With clear skies and a cool 60 
degrees, the men took to the starting 
line at 5:30 a.m. The teammates 
stayed together for most of the race 
and, at the halfway point, they were only separated by five seconds with 
Alwafai in 45th place and Gee in 
54th. In the last kilometer, however, 
Alwafai struggled to keep up with 
the pack and fell to 101st while Gee 
maintained his pace and finished 
in 59th. 
“I’m really pleased with how our men went after it today, ” head 
coach Nate Garcia told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “ At the 
NCAA meet, you have to commit 
early on, and both of our men did 
that. While they weren’t able to 
move up as much as we had hoped, On the Road to the Final Four in Kansas City
Alwafai and Gee 
at NationalsMEN'S  SOCCER
CROSS  COUNTR Y
As the top seed, UCSD hosted the Sweet 16 and Elite 8 games on its side of the 
bracket and used home field advantage to advance to the Final Four.
After qualifying for Nationals with top 10 finishes at Regionals, both 
UCSD runners finish in the top half of the rankings.by Marcus Thuillier // Managing EditorNo. 10 UCSD faced a familiar foe on Friday night at Triton 
Stadium when the team took on Cal Poly Pomona in the NCAA 
Tournament’s third round. The two teams were at a deadlock 
throughout the game, and UCSD needed overtime to dispose of the 
Broncos. The most successful team in UCSD’s Division II history now 
advances to the national quarterfinal as the West Region champs, where it 
faced No. 11 Midwestern State.
The top seed in its part of the NCAA bracket, UCSD was hosting the 
third round, looking to continue its “road to KC. ” In the team’s way stood 
Cal Poly Pomona, a fierce opponent which also happened to be last year’s 
West Region champion and national runner-up. With the 1–0 win in 
overtime and in front of 703 spectators, the Tritons brought their record to 
18–2–2 for the season and remained undefeated at home.
The contest was hard-fought and balanced till the end, with CPP 
holding a slight 16–15 advantage in shots. Two defensive-minded teams, 
the Tritons and the Broncos are ranked second and seventh, respectively, 
nationally in goals against average.
“I think we had more depth, ” senior goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh 
told UCSD Athletics. “They were a good team, and they gave us problems. 
But as the game went one we were able to put new lines of guys in and they 
couldn’t keep up. ”
The festivities really began in the 36th minute, when senior midfielder 
Nick Palano and sophomore midfielder Christian Cordell helped set up a 
shot by senior midfielder Riley Harbour that Broncos junior goalkeeper 
Jason Trejos caught with ease. CPP responded a few minutes later when 
junior midfielder Sergi Monso missed the goal by a few inches to the left. 
In the second half, Monso procured himself another chance with a big 
shot from outside the box that floated in the air until McElfresh got to it. 
Monso was at the origin of another goal opportunity for the Broncos when 
he crossed the ball in with 19 minutes remaining, but junior forward Luis 
Najera Jr., who was at the receiving end of the cross, failed to convert in 
front of McElfresh.
UCSD had one last chance in regulation, when junior forward Uly de 
la Cal crossed the ball in from the right side, but Harbour just missed the 
ball in the box.
“ All credit to Pomona — they are a very good team, ” UCSD head coach 
Jon Pascale told UCSD Athletics. “I give our guys full credit. They worked 
really hard for it, and they deserve it. ”
It took the Tritons only four minutes in overtime to force a decision 
for the game. Redshirt sophomore right back Jeff Powers passed to junior 
winger Zachary Lagotta down the right side. Lagotta took the ball and 
crossed it in toward Harbour, who was flanked by the opponent’s defenders 
senior Rubik Zazian and junior William Johnson Des Bordes. The ball 
went by Trejos, and with Harbour putting pressure, it was deviated by 
Zazian into his own goal to send UCSD through to the next round.
“ As the overtime period went on, we talked a lot about getting the ball 
large, ” Pascale said. “We went after Zach, put a dangerous ball in the box 
and good things happened. ” 
Trejos compiled six saves for CPP , while McElfresh, the reigning 
California Collegiate Athletic Association defensive player of the year, had 
five for his 13th clean sheet of 2016.
On Sunday, UCSD disposed of Midwestern State 2–1 with goals from 
senior defender Kuba W aligorski and junior forward Uly de la Cal. The 
Tritons now advance to the FInal Four which will be held in Kansas City. 
See CROSS COUNTRY , page 11PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
BY  R o s i n a   G a r c i a
Sports editorW. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Basketball
Swim and DiveUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES11/25
11/26
12/1
12/1
12/165 PM
3 PM
7:30 PM
7 PM
2 PMVS Saginaw Valley State
VS Azusa Pacific
VS Chico State
VS Western Washington
VS Cal State East Bay