VOLUME 50, ISSUE 20   THURSDA Y , DECEMBER 1, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A SAN DIEGAN 
HOLIDAY
IN NEED OF A LITTLE HOLIDAY 
BOOST THIS UPCOMING WEEKEND 
BEFORE FINALS ROLL AROUND? 
CHECK OUT LIFESTYLE’S 
GUIDE TO DIFFERENT EVENTS 
HAPPENING AROUND SAN DIEGO, 
FEATURING EVERYTHING FROM 
A MAJESTIC DOGGO PARADE 
TO A SCUBA DIVING SANTA TO A 
ROCKIN’ CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
FIT FOR ALL. 
INVESTMENT  POR TFOLIO
TRITONS  BEA T  POMONA TIES  TO  FOSSIL  FUEL  INDUSTR Y
BASKETBALLOPINION, P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE FIGHT TO MAKE  THE UC 
SYSTEM’S INVES TMENT PORTFOLIO  
MORALLY  JUSTIFIABLE  — AND 
ALIGNED  WITH THE UNIVERSI TY’S 
VALUES — IS ONE THAT WILL 
SEE NO SINGLE  VICTORY BUT 
PROGRESS  OVER TIME INSTEAD, SO 
LONG AS STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
PUT PRESS URE ON THE PEOPLE  
INVES TING THE UNIVERSI TY’S 
MONEY  IN QUESTIONABLE  
LOCATIONS.”
- Editorial Board
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCHIZOPHRENIA  ............. 2
DIVESTMENT  .................. 3
JOHN BERGER: ON ART  ...8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
MEN’S SOCCER  ............ 11lifestyle,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY SAM XU/UCSD GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
H 62 L 50FRIDAY
H 66 L 48
SATURDAY
H 63 L 46SUNDAY
H 67 L 52
Ron Fineman, a realtor and 
resident of La Jolla’s Bird Rock 
neighborhood, has created an anti-
crime company called “La Jolla 
Safety, Incorporated, ” citing rising 
crime rates in the region.
According to Fineman, due to 
a five-year hiring freeze, the San 
Diego Police Department is short-
staffed and has reduced the amount 
of officers patrolling the La Jolla, Bay 
Park, UTC, Torrey Pines,  Mission 
Beach and Pacific Beach areas.
While the anti-crime 
organization hopes to eventually 
patrol all of La Jolla, once the 
vetting process is done, Fineman 
will initiate a pilot phase of the 
safety program in the Bird Rock and Upper Hermosa neighborhoods. 
As a California nonprofit, La 
Jolla Safety, Incorporated, or LJS, 
is seeking monthly fees from 
homeowners and business owners 
in affected areas that will be used 
to hire private security companies 
and strengthen pre-existing 
neighborhood watch programs. 
The cost of participation is 
approximately $60 per month for 
four hours of service during the day 
or night. 
“We are in the process of 
studying and interviewing private 
security companies that will be 
a good fit for the Bird Rock and 
Upper Hermosa communities, ” the 
LJS mission statement reads. “We 
are looking for a regular security 
presence to conduct patrols, answer calls for emergency and non-
emergency assistance, respond 
to burglar alarms and help police 
and residents with prompt officer 
responses to calls. ”
Fineman, who moved to San 
Diego from Los Angeles, has been 
burglarized twice this year and 
pointed to the website spotcrime.
com as evidence of La Jolla’s crime 
problem, calling it “astounding. ”
“Crime is up all over La Jolla and 
San Diego, ” Fineman told the UCSD 
Guardian. “There are some clusters 
but they vary. ”
Owner of La Jolla’s Rusty surf 
shop Angie Preisendorfer has 
experienced regional crime first 
hand. Her surf shop, located in La A.S. Update: 
Key Changes 
Proposed 
Throughout 
Fall QuarterUCSD
The increased budget allows 
student organizations to 
purchase additional items. 
This Fall Quarter has seen major 
changes to the Associated Students’ 
policy with new innovative projects 
and increased programs for students. 
A.S. Council’s budget has increased 
this school year due to high enrollment 
and increased student fees, giving 
them more flexibility to pursue more                                   
ambitious projects.
A.S. Financial Controller Justin 
Pennish outlined a wide range of 
short-term and long-term goals for 
this school year. For fall, he aimed 
to establish a sustainable budget, 
guidelines about spending given the 
budget expansion and potential for 
growth; for winter and spring, his 
plans will be to launch new kinds of 
funding for student organizations that 
will allow them to purchase items they 
were not able to previously. 
Pennish wants to leave A.S. 
Council with a sustainable framework 
for the expansion and growth that 
A.S. Council and UC San Diego will 
be experiencing over the next few 
years, including tangible things such 
as assessment reports for budget 
projections, recommendations for 
allocation of financial resources and 
resources for students to be more 
equipped with the challenges of college 
life. 
“My long-term, reach goal for 
spring is to establish a financial 
literacy program, ” Pennish told the 
UCSD Guardian. “ As part of A.S. ’s 
commitment to basic needs security 
this year, my office wants to be a leader 
in helping to provide a resource for 
students to master financial literacy 
in ways that positively influence 
their knowledge, understanding and 
decision-making power over decisions 
that affect them directly and daily. ”
Besides working on improving 
student life and community, A.S. 
Council also functions as a mediator 
between the student body and 
professors and faculty. One of the 
current debates in the Academic 
Senate is whether to change the Week 
Nine drop deadline to an earlier time. 
According to Associate Vice 
President of Student Affairs Rushil 
Patel, Faculty felt that the number of 
students withdrawing so late into the 
quarter was unnecessary.
“Faculty were complaining about 
the number of students withdrawing 
Week 9 when they felt there was 
no need to, ” Patel told the UCSD 
Guardian. “They found this deadline 
to be more convenient for students 
and less beneficial for everyone. They 
also found that other UCs have a La Jolla Council Urges City Action on Sea Lions
The La Jolla Town Council Task Force on 
California Sea Lions has requested that the 
city of San Diego declare La Jolla Cove a public 
health hazard due to the high number of California 
sea lions that inhabit the area, sdnews.com reported 
on Nov. 25. Ann Kerr Bache, the LJTC president, and 
several private citizens sent Mayor Kevin Faulconer 
a letter on Nov. 3, urging a resolution to the “major 
health and public safety problem. ” 
Attached to the letter was a document titled “Call 
for Action, ” which outlines the ongoing concerns 
many La Jolla residents have with the sea lions and 
suggests that Faulconer should invoke “his legal right 
to move and exclude CSL from specific areas” under 
section 109(h) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
to remove the sea lions from certain areas where they 
pose a threat to humans. Enforced by the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Association, the MMPA 
protects all marine mammals within U.S., but allows 
for their removal under certain circumstances in the 
cited section. 
The “Call for Action” states that among other 
incidents involving the sea lions, beach visitors have 
been attacked by the sea lions for approaching them, 
lifeguards have contracted infections from swimming in the water contaminated by the sea lions’ waste 
and decaying bodies, and several events have been 
cancelled or relocated due to the poor water quality. 
According to sdnews.com, Jeffrey Chasan, 
an audience member at a task force meeting, 
reiterated the negative impact the sea lions                                                         
have on local residents.
“I’ve lived here for almost 25 years and I swim in 
the cove and the quality of the water is poor there 
because it’s become contaminated, ” Chasan stated. 
“We do need to find a mechanism to push the sea 
lions to a different settlement, get them to stop 
hauling out at the habitat we’ve all created. ”
However, Thurgood Marshall College sophomore 
Kol Chaiken disagrees with this attitude. An 
environmental systems major, Chaiken believes that 
the beachgoers are the true problem.
“They should ban the people instead, ” 
Chaiken told the UCSD Guardian. “La Jolla 
Cove is the sea lion’s natural breeding location, 
and there are plenty of other beaches to                                                                                                      
go to just for the next [few] months. ”
The “Call to Action” explained that the La Jolla 
community would reinforce the City’s actions through 
two phases: Community pro bono and subcontracted B y  LAUREN  HOL T    NEWS EDITORCAMPUS
La Jolla Safety, Inc. will hire guards from private security companies to assist city police officers.  See SEA LIONS , page 3
LA JOLLA
BY   M a t t h e w   Z a m u d i o
associate news editor
See SECURITY  , page 3 See A.S. COUNCIL  , page 3
The Zone invited students to their weekly Art and Soul event this past Tuesday where they were invited to craft hot cocoa jars. 
Photo by Esra Elhendy // UCSD Guardian
SAN DIEGO  BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g
staff writer
Resident Creates Local Crime Prevention Company2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
The Psychiatric Genomics 
Consortium analyzed over 41,000 
sets of genomes and found Copy 
Number Variants to be strongly 
implicated in the genetic etiology 
of schizophrenia. The team of 
international researchers is led by 
UC San Diego School of Medicine’s 
Jonathan Sebat.
CNVs are types of genetic 
alteration that involve deletions 
or duplications of pieces of the 
genome. Co-author, assistant 
professor of laboratory medicine 
and pathobiology at the University 
of Toronto and Associate Director 
at The Hospital for Sick Children 
Christian Marshall explains 
how CNVs can contribute to 
schizophrenia.
The group found that 
schizophrenia cases are more likely 
to have rare CNVs enriched for genes 
associated with synaptic function, as 
well as suggestive support for eight 
additional candidate susceptibilities and protective loci. The findings of 
the study were published online in 
Nature Genetics on Nov. 21.
“In most cases we have two copies 
of a gene, one on each chromosome 
inherited from mom and dad, but 
in some cases we can have a copy 
missing or duplicated,” Marshall 
told the UCSD Guardian. “This is 
generally normal but sometimes 
these copy number variants affect 
genes that are important for normal 
brain development and function … 
and in the case of schizophrenia, 
we know that many of these genes 
are   involved in brain function at 
the synapse. ”
Schizophrenia is a severe 
mental disorder characterized 
by psychotic symptoms in which 
the person’s cognition, mood 
and behavior reflect a disconnect 
with their surroundings. The risk 
of developing schizophrenia is 
highly influenced by genetics — 
the variance explained by genetic 
factors, also known as heritability, 
is estimated to be about 80 percent.
The researchers developed a 
pipeline, or collection of algorithms to detect CNV in microarrays, a 
technology used to recognize CNV 
in DNA. Due to the standardization 
and large amount of data, they were 
able to do many statistical analyses.
The team looked at CNV in 
schizophrenia and control cases 
to identify genes associated with 
schizophrenia risk. The researchers 
then built a map to determine how 
these different genes interact, how 
they are related, and if they’re in the 
same pathways. Marshall illuminated 
the purpose of a rare CNV map in 
predicting schizophrenia.
“It is important to know that 
both individuals have rare variants 
affecting the same pathway and in 
this way we can start to understand 
common pathways that are 
perturbed in the disorder, ” Marshall 
said. “Right now we are still at five 
percent of schizophrenia cases 
having a rare CNV that explains the 
disorder, but we want to get better 
since having a genetic diagnosis can 
really help families. ”
Director of the Beyster Institute 
of Psychiatric Genomics and UC 
San Diego professor of psychiatry Jonathan Sebat highlighted the 
importance of collaborations in 
research.
“This study represents a 
milestone that demonstrates what 
large collaborations in psychiatric 
genetics can accomplish, ” Sebat said 
in a press release. “We’re confident 
that applying this same approach to 
a lot of new data will help us discover 
additional genomic variations and 
identify specific genes that play a 
role in schizophrenia and other 
psychiatric conditions. ”
Marshall added that the study 
isn’t yet complete, and listed 
potential avenues of investigation.
“With our analysis, very rare 
variants are hard to interpret 
since we don’t have enough cases, ” 
Marshall said. “Our next steps 
include looking at the genome with 
higher resolution techniques like 
whole genome sequencing, as well 
as analysis of even more samples 
and replication. ”Research Group Discovers Genetic Variations Linked with Schizophrenia
The study has yet to be finished, but the scientists hope to examine the genome with higher resolution methods in the future. SCITECH
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
senior staff writer
Ming-Ra y Liao  m4liao@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Merry Crimbus, Merry Crisis.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker, Alicia 
Lepler
.com/ucsdguardian@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ SEA LIONS,  from page 1 La Jolla Residents Have a History of  Contempt T oward the Sea Lions
experts could provide help in 
drafting a contract with the City 
handing the lead to LJTC for the sea 
lions’ removal and implementing an 
extraction plan. The local residents 
would also donate funds to the 
removal in order to ease the burden 
on taxpayers.
The La Jolla community has taken additional actions in the past 
to mitigate the perceived damage 
caused by the sea lions. In January 
of this year, the LJTC approved a 
measure to install plastic barriers 
that would prevent the sea lions 
from reaching the rocks at the Cove, 
and in 2015, a group of residents 
and business owners sued the City of San Diego over the smell created 
by the sea lions’ feces. 
The UCSD Guardian reached out 
to the NOAA Southwest Fisheries 
Science Center in La Jolla and LJTC 
for comment, but they did not 
respond by publication time.Jolla Shores, was burglarized two 
weeks ago by an armed man who 
stole two surfboards. 
The damages amounted to 
approximately $8,000, Preisendorfer 
told the UCSD Guardian. 
Preisendorfer also said there is 
not only a shortage of police officers 
in La Jolla, but in San Diego at large. 
“People who are committing the 
crimes know there is a police shortage 
in San Diego, ” she said. “The police 
captain of the Northern Division 
came to a La Jolla crime committee 
meeting recently and said there are a 
lot of people retiring and not a lot of 
people applying.  It’s not a popular                                                  
profession at the moment. ”
According to Preisendorfer, 
crime is particularly rampant in the 
La Jolla Shores region because the 
roads make it easy for offenders to 
get away, unlike the village. 
“There used to be three banks 
here,” Preisendorfer said. “But 
they’re all gone now because they 
were robbed so often. ”
Fineman also told the Guardian 
that LJS has had over 60 people 
register for the program, and that the the corporation is close to 
signing a contract with the private 
security company Security First. 
When asked if the creation 
of LJS had anything to do with 
his professional occupation 
as a realtor, Fineman gave                                                                 
an ambivalent response. 
“I live and work in Bird Rock 
and care about the community,” 
Fineman said. “The safety of our 
neighborhoods and residents and 
merchants is important to me; 
something I do for the community 
as a whole. ” 
“I help you buy, sell and invest 
in real estate, but I also help you 
protect it, ” he added. 
Fineman also said he would like 
to see LJS expand to the region 
around UCSD. 
“We would be happy to speak to 
appropriate UCSD personnel about 
what La Jolla Safety, Incorporated 
can do, ” said Fineman. “Similar to 
an apartment building or HOA, 
there is already a budget for security 
and a central office that pays for 
things like this. ”▶ SECURITY ,  from page 1San Diego Police In Need of  More Recruits
▶ A.S. COUNCIL  from page 1ASVP Patel: The Drop Deadline Should Remain the Same at UCSD
less lenient withdrawal policy and 
faculty wants to align with them. ”
If this policy change were to 
happen, it would be in effect Fall 
Quarter 2018 so professors can have 
time to adjust their syllabus structure 
such that students will receive 
feedback on their performance 
earlier and can make a decision 
about whether to drop the class. 
Associated Vice President of 
Academic Affairs Rushil Patel, who 
has sent out a survey about the 
deadline, feels that the dialogue 
surrounding this potential policy 
change does not capture the students’ perspective and best interests.
“I don’t agree with the policy, ” 
Patel said. “I think the other UCs 
should line up with us given that 
students don’t withdraw for the sake 
of convenience. Taking a W is a 
big decision that I firmly believe 
students approach with caution. 
I’m a bit skeptical as to how much 
faculty would budget in changing 
their schedules to provide input 
earlier on in the quarter. ”
Other changes include A.S. 
Council Senator funds — which 
are typically used for Senator 
projects that are meant to enhance the quality of student life for their 
constituencies — which have been 
underutilized in past years. New 
changes to the policy will increase 
usage, accountability, transparency 
and the viability that projects will 
be completed in a timely manner. 
Some notable funding changes for 
programs are the budget increase 
for the Triton Food Pantry and 
the partnership with Uber for Safe 
Rides, which will both work to 
provide services for students. Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Rebecca  CHong  rcchong@ucsd.edu MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu
ucsdguardian.orgSee  more online  a t4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
As a university system struggling 
to fund itself, the University of 
California needs to put money 
in investments as a source of income. 
This practice isn’t entirely bad, even if 
it is done by a public institution. It only 
becomes a conflict of interest when the 
university invests in corporations that 
contradict the core values that it stands 
for. Unfortunately, an analysis of the UC’s 
General Endowment Pool reveals that 
such is the case: The same university that 
produces a wealth of research on climate 
change and preaches diversity has major 
ties to corporations which counteract en -
vironmental sustainability and endanger 
minority groups. 
    One troubling aspect of the UC’s 
endowment is the multitude of invest -
ments in fossil fuel companies. Our state 
has made it a goal to limit carbon emis -
sions and build a future on sustainable 
energy, and such investments are a slap 
in the face to those who have labored for 
years to make this a reality. By finan -
cially supporting a number of publicly 
traded companies with high-ranking 
carbon reserves, our university’s endow -
ment prioritizes short-term benefits of 
investing in fossil fuel companies over 
the pursuit of clean-energy alternatives, 
which – in time – will shift from being 
a preferred transfer to a necessary (and 
urgent) switch.
    Investing in Regency Energy, now 
owned by Energy Transfer Partners, is a 
particularly heinous choice of company 
for the UC’s money: Another subsidiary 
of Energy Transfer Partners is currently 
building the Dakota Access Pipeline. Though proponents of the project like 
to advertise the jobs it creates and the 
possibility that it will help make America 
energy-independent, the costs of the 
project far outweigh the benefits. In ad -
dition to perpetuating our dependence 
on fossil fuels and risking the contamina -
tion of a tribe’s water supply, the con -
struction of the DAP through the Sioux 
Tribal Reservation has stripped Native 
Americans of their land and violated a historic treaty guaranteeing the Sioux 
tribe ownership of the land at Standing 
Rock Reservation. By keeping $900,000 
invested in Regency Energy Partners, the 
University communicates that it does not 
stand in solidarity with the thousands of 
Native Americans whose wellbeings are 
put at risk by the DAP . UC San Diego has 
supported a Native American Council to 
shed light on Native American culture 
and the needs of the Native American community, and the UC system has 
programs across campuses dedicated to 
the study of Native American culture 
and history. It is hypocritical to invest 
indirectly in a project which counteracts 
Native American tribes and land.
    History proves that the UC system’s 
investments alone do have a lasting 
impact on the livelihood of certain 
companies, and, in turn, social change. 
Perhaps the greatest example of this 
is the UC system’s part in the move -
ment to end apartheid, one of the most 
prominent examples of divestment as a 
social movement in the past century. In 
1985 the UC had more than 1.7 billion 
dollars invested in corporations that 
did business in South Africa, a whop -
ping one-third of the entire investment 
portfolio. Students and faculty had been 
calling for the UC system to take a stance 
against apartheid since 1977, but the UC 
Board of Regents was hesitant to heed 
their demands. Meanwhile, Michigan 
State University, Columbia University 
and Stanford University, among others, 
pulled their investments from South Af -
rica. Finally, following massive protests 
in 1986 — including the UC-wide “Di -
vestment Day” — UC Regents agreed to 
a full divestment f rom corporations that 
did business in South Africa by 1990. 
As it turned out, they were on the right 
side of history: by 1994 South Africa 
removed all laws enforcing apartheid and 
elected Nelson Mandela president. The 
action of the UC Regents to stop finan -The UC Regents evidently 
need a reminder that they 
are in charge not of a 
corporation but a public 
institution, responsible for 
improving the well-being of 
students and the state. The 
funds of the UC system must 
be invested in the futures of 
our students, our faculty, 
our youth and our planet, 
not in corporations that act 
against our interests, our 
ethics and our values.
““
See DIVESTMENT , page 5
““ ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONTo Communicate Consistent Message of 
Purpose, UC Investment Strategy Must 
Hold Ethics at Higher RegardOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Monday
Dec. 5th
10pm
GOT 
SOMETHING 
TO SAY?
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSEND US YOUR 
THOUGHTSTina Butoiu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Lauren Holt
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOR
Sam Velasquez
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
EDITOR
Nathan Walker
OPINION EDITORIAL 
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL  
BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a 
week at the University of California at San 
Diego. Contents © 2015. Views expressed 
herein represent the majority vote of the edito -
rial board and are not necessarily those of the 
UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. cially supporting apartheid shows that 
private divestment can make a huge 
difference in the outcome of history, a 
message as true today as it was thirty 
years ago.
    The clamor for divestment is as 
alive today as it was then; though, 
as always, UC Regents drags its feet 
toward taking a stance on the issues. 
The greatest success in recent years 
was the divestment of $30 million 
from corporations that operate 
private prisons, a necessary state -
ment in favor of dismantling the U.S. 
prison-industrial complex which 
has been growing consistently over 
the past four decades and holds 25 
percent of the world’s prisoners, while 
the U.S. only encompasses 5 percent 
of the world’s population. The UC 
Regents made the decision largely 
because Black Student Unions on 
all nine campuses made resolutions 
condemning the investments, which 
goes to show that students can and do 
have an impact on Regents when they 
speak up.
    The fight to make the UC sys -
tem’s investment portfolio morally 
justifiable — and aligned with the 
University’s values — is one that will see no single victory but progress over 
time instead, so long as students and 
faculty put pressure on the people 
investing the University’s money in 
questionable locations. This year, stu -
dents and faculty have made strides 
in doing so: More than 670 members 
of UC faculty released a letter calling 
on the UC system to divest from 
fossil fuels, halting new investments 
immediately and getting rid of exist -
ing investments within five years. A 
divestment resolution was also passed 
by UC San Diego’s Academic Senate 
at the 2016–17 Senate Elections this 
past April. With such widespread sup -
port from the people who make up 
the university, it is absolutely impera -
tive that UC Regents acknowledges 
criticism when it is valid and decides 
to put its money where its mouth is 
by divesting, for one, from fossil fuel 
companies like Regency Energy. We 
must remind UC Regents that it is not 
in charge of a corporation but a public 
institution, responsible for improv -
ing the well-being of students and 
the state. The funds of the UC system 
must be invested in the futures of our 
students, our faculty, our youth and 
our planet, not in corporations that 
act against our interests, our ethics 
and our values.▶ DIVESTMENT, from page 4UCSDGUARDIAN.orgCHEck  Us  out
@A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG Weekend
With finals looming right around the corner, and winter break being a much-needed, but alas, too far off, glimmer of hope, we asked UCSD students and 
Lifestyle staff what holiday memories they hold onto as a small memoriam of the good ol’ times. T he 12(ish) Days Until Break 
By Guardian Lifestyle Staff
“My family and I are on the flip side of ‘out with the old, in with the 
new. ’ Our idea of a perfect holiday is staying in and not going all out. 
We love great deals on Black Friday, but are easily discouraged by long 
lines. So, instead, we spend Thanksgiving weekend cleaning out our 
closets and trade our old clothes in for some more old clothes. Usually 
we go Goodwill hunting and pick up wild Christmas sweaters that 
probably date back a couple decades. Why buy new centerpieces when 
you can be one?”
- Jocelyn Y ang, Revelle College Junior
Lifestyle Staff Writer
Sasha Mison, Freshman International Student from Singapore
Interviewed by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Writer
AO : What do you usually do for the holiday season?
SM : We celebrate it pretty normally, I think. We actually do a Thanksgiving 
dinner — is that normal? Normally we choose one to celebrate, like we’ll 
make a turkey for one of them because my mom’s lazy. I think we celebrate 
pretty normally: We do the presents, and the Christmas tree — it’s a fake one 
in Singapore because we don’t have Christmas trees. Normally the family 
comes over. A lot of the time, because we’re international, it’s really stressful, 
so we have to start sending gifts ahead of time because of air mail. 
AO : Do you feel like a lot of other Singaporeans have that same experience?
SM : No, but that’s because I’m half-American. I think sometimes people don’t 
celebrate it, really, or they’ll do it, but not as much. Everyone pretty much, in 
Singapore at least, will give presents, but a lot of time, you might not have a 
tree, or you might not do the family gathering, or you won’t eat “traditional” 
Christmas food — you might have Singaporean food or something. 
AO : What is your favorite holiday or Christmas memory?
SM : I don’t know about favorite, but when I was really young, my uncle had 
a talking Christmas tree. It was like, straight out of Harry Potter, like the trees 
in the woods: Y ou’ d walk by and it would just talk to you. “In my family, we like to hold onto our roots. No need for a 
gingerbread house when you have some dan tat (Hong Kong-style 
egg custard tarts) and cha siu bao (Cantonese BBQ pork buns) 
for breakfast. And why listen to Mariah Carey’s “ All I Want For 
Christmas Is Y ou” when you could have unnecessarily complex 
Chinese game shows playing in the background? And you know 
when Grandma pulls out the hong bao, it’s about to get real. ” 
- Brittney Lu, Marshall College Junior
Lifestyle Editor 
Prarthana Prakash, Freshman International Student from India
Interviewed by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Writer
AO : What do you usually do around holiday or Christmastime? 
PP: Usually, we go on a family vacation, because that’s the time when my sister and 
I have coinciding holidays. So we usually go to different place and travel a lot in 
the month of December. Then toward the end of December, it’s my birthday, so we 
celebrate that together. And then there’s something new going on around New Y ear’s, 
like a New Y ear get-together or something like that. 
AO : So do you celebrate Christmas? 
PP: Not particularly, no. We just make use of the holidays that come with it.
AO : What is your favorite holiday memory?
PP: Probably one of the trips that we made two years ago. It was a really long trip 
and we were all together for about two weeks, so that was super memorable. We 
went to a city up North in India; it’s called Jaipur. It was super cold, but it has a lot of 
historical locations, like palaces and these forts and stuff, and so we went around to 
those places — it was beautiful. 
AO : Who usually goes on the trips? 
PP: It’s my family — my mom, dad, sister and I. 
AO : How long ago did you start the tradition?
PP: It’s always been there. When I was a kid we used to go on two, and then when 
my sister went off to college we didn’t have holidays at the same time, so we started 
going more in December than during the summer and stuff. 
AO : Do you usually go to places in India?
PP: No, we actually mostly go out of the country. In 2014, we went to Indonesia, and 
then before that we went to Dubai and Hong Kong. Usually it’s outside the country, 
but sometimes it changes. Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD Guardian
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
North Park’s Toyland Parade 
Dec. 3 (11 a.m.–3 p.m.)
The 53rd Annual North Park Toyland Parade and Festival takes place on Dec. 3 from 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. The parade features everything from vintage cars to marching bands, 
beauty queens and even Santa Claus. 
Gaslamp District’s Holiday Pet Parade 
Dec. 11 (12:30 p.m. register a pupper, 3:00 parade)
On Dec. 11, the Gaslamp district becomes a holiday pet expo. Furry friends will 
be dressed to impress while walking in a special parade. There will also be live 
entertainment and happy hour deals in many of the local restaurants. Awards can 
be   won in categories including best pet costume, best costume duo and best  ugly 
holiday sweater. A San Diegan Christmas 
By Tara Nejad // Lifestyle Staff Writer
The Christmas Collective, hosted by Flood, is a feast for the eyes, ears and heart. 
An annual San Diegan tradition since 2003 (and a personal favorite), this event 
is a trifecta of good community, festive music and humanitarian causes. Bands 
from all Flood branches — like The Eagle and Child and Kith and Kin — collaborate once 
a year to put on a free holiday concert for San Diego, and this year is all the more special. 
Traditionally occurring at the Convention Center, this year’s Collective is pioneering a new 
home at Broadway Pier, near the Port Pavilion, with concerts happening at 4, 6 and 8 p.m. 
this upcoming Sunday, Dec. 4. I already know what you’re thinking — the Sunday before 
finals? Come anyway. Y ou can sacrifice a two-hour break we all know you would have spent 
watching the newest Westworld episode. And with the surrounding setting being the San 
Diego downtown nightscape, do you need a more valid excuse to ditch Geisel for a while? 
At the Collective, traditional classics take on a diverse, eclectic twist as each musician puts 
their own synth, folk or rock touch to create a symphony for the senses. In this not-so-
Silent Night, you’re bound to rekindle that holiday spirit, even in the midst of a stressful 
pre-finals study session. So no matter what your musical fancy is, the Collective is sure to 
have something to please. What’s more, the Collective is also home to an outdoor market of 
local nonprofits and businesses to support a “conscientious holiday shopping” environment, 
not to mention a handful of food trucks to keep the stomach satisfied. The market will be 
taking place from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. and features 20 different vendors like Y ouMe Clothing 
— which supports water infrastructure and refugee employment, or Because of Hope — 
which turns bracelets and bags into “sustainable empowerment” for widows and orphans 
in Uganda. And check out local San Diego artists from companies like Sable and Snow 
stationery to support our native creatives. So if you’re looking to make a global impact, the 
Collective is a local one-stop shop. 
And while you’re getting something for yourself, the Collective also offers a space to give 
back with The Giving Tree, where you can help sponsor local families in need. With a hope 
for “combining the arts with the art of giving back, ” the Collective embodies what this 
holiday season should represent — a communal gathering looking to celebrate well and give 
well. Flood intern associate, Collective aficionada and one of our very own UCSD seniors, 
Sharon Kim, predicts it’s bound to bring a “warm and joyful ambience. ” San Diego is in 
for “an absolute treat” for this “communal and inclusive [concert], insanely talented bands 
and a socially conscious market, ” she said. So grab a friend, or five, and make your way to 
downtown San Diego for a holiday experience unlike any other. By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
Trying to find ways to celebrate your not-so-white San Diegan Christmas? Check out 
some of these local events running through December:Balboa Park’s December Nights 
Friday Dec. 2 (3–11 p.m.)-Saturday Dec. 3 (Noon–11 p.m.)
Every December, Balboa Park is renewed into a winter wonderland. The holiday 
festival features impressive decorations, food, entertainment and shopping, and 
best of all, admission is free! Highlights of the event include the park museums, 
the miniature railroad, the unique crafts for sale and photos with Santa. 
Birch Aquarium’s Seas ‘n’ Greetings
Dec. 1–Dec. 31 (9 a.m.–5 p.m.)
Starting Dec. 1, there is a special seasonal experience for all aquarium-goers. 
From 9 to 5 p.m., the holiday cheer is spread all around with fun activities offered 
throughout the aquarium and even special appearances from Scuba Santa. On 
weekends, live music is also offered.  
Little Italy’s Tree Lighting
Dec. 3 (4 p.m.–8 p.m.)
On Dec. 3, Little Italy becomes Little Lit-aly during the Tree Lighting and 
Christmas Village celebration. The giant Christmas tree is a 25-foot tower made 
of over 1000 poinsettias, and is sure to impress. In addition, there will be seasonal 
vendors, decorations, live music, yummy holiday food and even an appearance 
from Santa Claus! 
Illustration by Sam Xu // UCSD GuardianIllustration by Michi Sora // UCSD Guardian
Photos Courtesy of Flood ChurchA Very Communal Christmas8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After “Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows Pt. 2” 
premiered in 2011, it was 
hard to imagine a world where we 
couldn’t look forward to a new 
“Harry Potter” movie. Thankfully, 
J.K. Rowling seems to have missed 
the saga as much as we did. Just 
five years after the immensely 
popular series ended, Rowling 
invites us back into the wizarding 
world to embark on new adventures 
that precede    the “ Harry Potter”          
series and take place on our side of 
the pond.
More than sixty years before 
Harry Potter receives his Hogwarts 
letter, New York City is under attack 
from a mysterious supernatural 
force and wizards are in danger of 
being exposed. At the same time, Newt Scamander (Eddie Redmayne) 
arrives in the city with a suitcase 
full of magical creatures, having 
just traveled around the world to 
document them for his book. After 
a run-in with a Jacob Kowalski, a 
No-Maj (American for “Muggle”) 
played by Dan Fogler, several beasts 
escape the suitcase. The ensuing 
chase forces Newt to team up 
with Jacob and former auror Tina 
Goldstein (Katherine Waterston) as 
they attempt to retrieve the beasts 
before No-Majs find out about them.
David Yates, director of the 
latter half of the “Harry Potter” 
movies, brings a similar atmosphere 
of awe and wonder to “Fantastic 
Beasts, ” especially when displaying 
the scope of the magical creatures’ 
abilities. Consequently, the tone of “Fantastic Beasts” is more whimsical 
and lighthearted than the other 
“Harry Potter” movies. Although 
it has somber moments, the film 
isn’t as gritty and threatening as 
its predecessors were. Then again, 
“Fantastic Beasts” is supposed to 
establish its own distinct tone since 
it’s technically not “Harry Potter. ” 
Yate s  st r i ke s  t he  r i g ht  b a l anc e 
between incorporating familiar 
elements from the pre-established 
wizarding world — a magical 
government, the risk of exposure, an 
ominous threat — and introducing 
new components that set the stage 
for entirely different adventures. 
What makes “Fantastic Beasts” 
a successful prequel is that the new elements, most notably the 
characters, are properly introduced 
without relying on the audience’s 
previous knowledge of the wizarding 
world. As the forerunner of this 
era of magic, Redmayne stands out 
with the charisma, strength and 
vulnerability of a complex leading 
character worthy of being the face 
of the franchise. One letdown in 
an otherwise brilliant cast is Ezra 
Miller, whose overly melodramatic 
performance would have been 
passable had his character not been 
an integral part of the plot. The 
antagonist in the film is also rather 
underwhelming due to predictability, 
but there is a surprise cameo at the 
very end of the movie that sets up the main villain for the upcoming 
films. It’s still early to judge that 
character, but it’s reassuring that 
the next four “Fantastic Beasts” 
sequels will   hopefully have a more            
compelling antagonist than the one 
in this movie.
“Fantastic Beasts” probably 
won’t reach the same level of global 
success that “Harry Potter” did, 
and that’s okay. As a reintroduction 
to the wizarding world and the 
foundation for new adventures and 
characters, “Fantastic Beasts” is a 
wonderful addition to Harry Potter 
lore that is sure to please  Muggles 
and No-Majs everywhere.
—   El ly s a   L i m
 Staff Writer
With his English accent, full 
head of wild curls and 
enthusiastic brilliance, 
John Berger was an impish pop-
star prophet in 1972. His voice was 
overlaid upon images of famous oil 
paintings, he stood before canvases, 
he turned again and again towards 
the camera and he interpreted for 
us. He made sense of it all — art, 
beauty and capitalism — in his BBC 
television series, an adaptation of his 
campus classic, “Ways of Seeing. ” The 
book and television series borrowed 
heavily from an essay written decades 
earlier by Walter Benjamin, the truly 
tragic figure of the Frankfurt School, 
with whom Berger has been besotted 
his whole life. An essay about 
Benjamin is included in his latest 
book “Landscapes: John Berger on 
Art, ” a collection which is supposed 
to be a companion to “Portraits, ” 
which was published last year.
Now Berger is a hale and 
handsome 90-year-old who has spent 
a lifetime curating his own oeuvre of 
sidereal ideas, and limning them in 
elliptical, lyrical, understated prose. 
He’s a master of tone. He can give 
whole essays a uniform flavor, of 
simple curved corners and lemony 
brightness, or sparkling concentric 
circles and starry fractals, whatever he 
wishes, always with subtlety, always 
with restraint. The pieces included 
in “Landscapes” have an elusive  
sameness to each other, and each 
of them are also small masterpieces in miniature which stand beautifully 
alone. 
Obeisances are paid to plenty of 
other luminaries besides Walter 
Benjamin in “Landscapes. ” In fact, 
most of “Landscapes” is made up 
of writings about specific people, 
with poems, short stories and 
essays interspersed between them. 
There are little elegies written to 
Rosa Luxemburg, James Joyce, 
Picasso, Roland Barthes, Gabriel 
García Márquez, famous Marxist 
art historian Frederick Antal and 
hardly known Marxist art writer 
Max Raphael, among others. 
“Kraków, ” the first piece, fixates 
on a kiwi intellectual mentor and 
sexual predator, a haunted, haunting 
character who seems to make 
apparitions in some other things 
Berger has written, namely in the 
two perfect short stories “Woven, 
Sir” and “Passeur. ” These pieces 
allow Berger the opportunity to 
describe people he admires; listening 
to a trained artist describe someone 
he admires is a highly pleasurable 
thing to read, and they are whirred 
snapshot glimpses into his personal 
life. The quickly sketched portraits 
proffer his muses and his Marxism, 
reposed, stretched out tantalizingly 
for us to see.
The book is divided into two 
named halves, “Redrawing the Maps” and “Terrain. ” The first half 
is both more circumscribed and 
circumspect. “Terrain” is more direct 
and urgent. One piece in “Terrain” is 
a simple list of 10 short responses 
made by Berger to questions that 
are not printed but that become 
obvious. In these, he talks about the 
world he finds himself in now. The 
whole segment is so immediate and 
intense, and the poeticism suffers 
not at all from the question/answer 
format. If essay and short story 
collections like these have climaxes, 
this is it. On photographs of refugees 
in a Red Cross center, “… a man’s 
fingers are all that remain of a plot 
of tilled earth … his eyes are a 
family gathering he will not attend. ” 
On the disintegration of meaningful 
space and distance, “They accept 
the signs they follow and it’s as if 
they don’t travel, as if they always 
remain where they already are. ” On 
the tyranny of digital timekeeping, 
“Time is no longer a colonnade, 
but a single column of ones and 
zeros. ” Every line in “Landscapes: 
John Berger on Art” is as good as 
these are. His work, like anything 
political, is both realistic and 
abstract, as simultaneously material 
and ethereal as a piece of art.
—   Susie  da vidson
Senior Staff WriterThe wizarding world returns in a magical spin-off with thrilling escapades, spellbinding characters and, of course, fantastic beasts.
Novelist, essayist and art critic John Berger’s latest collection of pieces is as fine 
as everything else he’s written.
FILM  REVIEW
BOOK  REVIEWFa n ta s t i c  B e a s t s  
and Where to Find Them
PHOTO COURTESY OF WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
Director   David Yates
Starring Eddie Redmayne, Katherine Waterston, Dan Fogler
Release Date   November 18
Rated   PG-13B+
DNCE
by   DNCE Landscapes:  John   Berger   on   Art
by    John  Berger
Release Date November 18Release Date November 1
Joe Jonas leads DNCE in a sexy debut that is eager 
to showcase its funky, youthful flavor.ALBUM  REVIEW
Joe Jonas is bringing sexy 
back along with well-crafted 
’70s-inspired funky tunes. As 
one of the few child starlets who 
have broken free from their innocent 
Disney days, he does so without 
seeming like a try-hard, and that 
deserves applause. With the purity 
ring tossed behind him, Jonas and 
his newfound pop band DNCE 
explore mature themes of relationship 
milestones and, well, sex.
Despite the previous fame Jonas 
achieved, the album nevertheless 
accentuates every band member’s 
flair through uniformity in 
various harmonious tracks. “Good 
Day” and “Unsweet” showcase 
those melodies that convey their 
youthful energy. From JinJoo Lee’s 
much-needed feminine touch 
and Jack Lawless’ head-banging 
drumming, it’s like a ’70s funk-
teen riot mashup. The band’s love 
for partying and living carefree 
is reflected through their chants: 
“Memories, the memories, the 
Instagram’s tellin’ me everything/
but I regret nothing. ” Its sex-filled 
single “Body Moves, ” a raunchy 
anthem of post-party hookups, 
supports its sexy/funky image and 
asks the question: Was that same 
Joe on Disney Channel?
With 14 tracks, there are inevitable 
filler songs like “Naked” and “Blown, ” 
which incorporate wacky kazoos and 
overly-used “ohhs” that sound forced. 
Its multi-platinum debut single “Cake By the Ocean, ” although undeniably 
catchy and very much funky, doesn’t 
fully live up to the album’s overall 
mature-yet-fun message. It’s tracks 
like “Truthfully” and “ Almost” that 
serve more in representing the 
evolving band and emphasizing 
Jonas’ vocal ability. “Baby, we were 
good, we were almost perfect/I’ d 
say it’s your fault but you don’t 
deserve it, ” croons a heartbroken 
Jonas, revealing vocals hidden away 
during his boy band days. 
All the sex anthems may become 
excessive at some point, and tracks 
like “Zoom” fall flat in providing 
lyrical variation. “I got a full tank lady 
and I’m ready to drive” sounds too 
much like a failed boy band single, 
regressing on the band’s journey from 
childhood. Nonetheless, the band 
balances out the album with more 
serious tracks. “Toothbrush” visits 
the dilemma of moving in with your 
significant other with a convincingly 
upbeat tempo. “Baby you don’t have to 
rush/you can leave a toothbrush/at my 
place, ” sings Jonas, offering to take it 
step by step. 
The band successfully delivers 
pop dance hits containing engaging 
lyrics without excessive, cliché 
repetitiveness. As a whole, “DNCE” is 
a fun debut that forms a bridge from 
innocence to maturity, and it is well 
worth a listen. 
—   Melissa  P alafox
 Staff Writerba+
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianMost Americans remember 
John F. Kennedy as a 
great man and president. 
Since his assassination, history has 
forged a public perception of the 
president: an immutable facade. 
Those left after Kennedy’s death 
shaped his legacy, Jackie Kennedy 
among them, the loyal wife of a 
president who wasn’t loyal to her. 
In “Jackie, ” director Pablo Larrain 
hammers the idea that history is 
shaped by perception rather than 
reality. At the center of this history 
is Jackie, a psychologically broken 
woman obsessed with how history 
will remember her family and her 
husband. While “Jackie” is held 
up by a strong performance from 
Natalie Portman, who transforms 
into the titular character, the film fails to reconcile its theme with its 
story, a vacuous endurance test with 
no clear payoff.
Taking place in the days 
following President Kennedy’s 
assassination, “Jackie” is told in an 
episodic, non-linear fashion which 
races between past and present, 
replicating the trauma that first 
lady Jackie Kennedy experienced 
as she relived those horrifying 
final seconds of her husband’s life 
over and over again. Larrain mixes 
iconography with unease, such as 
the scene of Kennedy’s motorcade 
filmed from Jackie’s perceptive. The 
scene’s attention to visual detail 
invites the audience to peer into 
Larrain’s visceral interpretation of 
the final seconds of Kennedy’s life, 
a historic moment that has only been witnessed on grainy newsreels. 
Here, the film conveys that history 
is merely an interpretation of an 
unknowable reality. 
Through its many close-ups 
of Jackie’s sorrowful face, the film 
conveys emotion through the visual 
language of faces. Here, Larrain 
depicts the distinction between 
the first lady’s public and private 
life. While the story of the events 
following JFK’s assassination is told 
through dialogue, the story of Jackie 
Kennedy is told through close-
ups. Larrain shows, not tells, the 
wreckage of Jackie’s psyche through 
the tears in Portman’s eyes and 
the blood splatter on her cheeks. 
These close-ups focus the story on 
Jackie, with everything else being 
background noise. Thankfully, Portman’s incredible portrayal of 
Jackie Kennedy is strong enough to 
make even an image of her troubled 
eyes compelling.
Toward the end of the film, 
Robert Kennedy, Jackie’s brother-
in-law, sulks at the thought of how 
little his brother’s administration 
actually accomplished. No matter 
how history perceives the former 
president, the reality of his 
accomplishments can never be 
changed. But Jackie seems to concern 
herself more with appearances. 
One of her main achievements as 
first lady was her effort to restore 
and bring historical artifacts into 
the White House. She understood 
that although the project would 
accomplish nothing real, people 
needed to understand that “great men lived here. ” And similar to how 
Jackie is concerned with surface-
level appearance, “Jackie” is a 
surface-level film. During the film’s 
final scene, Jackie wanders through 
the empty halls of the White House. 
Here, Larrain obsesses over detail, 
painstakingly showing us the house 
that great men lived in. Although 
much is shown, nothing is said, 
summing up a film whose focus on 
surface-level appearances prevents 
it from depicting anything honest or 
true. Rather than insight, we are left 
only with flat images whose traces 
will soon fade from our memory.
—   naft ali  burak ovsky
Associate A&E EditorA film concerned only with appearances, “Jackie” offers an alluring, yet uninsightful look into the private life of the iconic First Lady.
FILM  REVIEW
jackie
PHOTO COURTESY OF FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURESPHOTO COURTESY OF PARAMOUNT PICTURES
Director   Pablo Larrain
Starring Natalie Portman, John Hurt, Greta Gerwig
Release Date   December 2
Rated   PG-13B-10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
BIKES
Fixie Bike - $140. Very nice and lightweight. 
Listing ID: 260859859 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Huffy Mountain Bike - $60. 16” wheel. 
Includes bike lock. Only a year old and in 
terrific shape. Listing ID: 260859858 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Schwinn Point Beach 7-Speed Bike - $25. 
Blue and cream, some wear and tear, sat 
outside. Listing ID: 260859856 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionELECTRONICS
Tone Platinum Wireless Headset - $150. 
Brand new. Never opened. Bluetooth 
Harman Kardon Platinum. Listing ID: 
260859942 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 - 7 Inches - $100. 
Galaxy Tab 2 black. In attractive condition. 
Comes with flip case, new screen protector, 
charger and box. Listing ID: 260859939 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Bose 201 Series III Speakers - $70. I have a 
pair of Bose speakers that work fine and are 
in attractive shape. But I upgraded a cou -
ple of years ago and they’ve been sitting 
around ever since.  Listing ID: 260859924 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationFURNITURE
Good as New Futon - $35. Black, metal futon 
for sale! Amazing mattress. Just bought 
futon in August. Only selling because I 
don’t need it anymore and need to sell it 
ASAP . Listing ID: 260859973 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Three Tier Table - $50. Very sturdy, Four feet 
long, 1.5 feet wide, 2.5 feet tall. Listing ID: 
260859969 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sofa Chair - $90. Nice comfortable chair, 
no rips or stains, comes from a pet and 
smoke-free home. Could use some extra 
stuffing in armrest, but overall super comfy. 
Moving and can’t take with me. Listing ID: 
260859965 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
No. 10 UC San Diego men’s 
soccer team (19–2–2) comes 
into Thursday’s matchup a clear 
underdog against No. 1 Wingate 
(17–1) in the National semifinal, 
but it has been shown this year that 
nothing was to stop the Tritons. The 
semifinal will be played at 9 a.m., 
while the second semifinal pins No. 
4 Charleston (18–2–2) against No. 
6 Rockhurst (18–2–3) at 12 p.m. 
at Swope Soccer Village in Kansas 
City, Mo.
UC San Diego is a three-time 
national champion, although all its 
titles were earned when the Tritons 
played in Division III. This year, 
for the first time in its Division-
II history, UC San Diego won the 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association regular season title, as 
well as the CCAA Tournament title. 
On top of that, UC San Diego hasn’t 
lost a game since Oct. 27, 2016, a 3–1 
defeat at Cal State San Bernardino.
The first semifinal will be a clash 
of two of the top-three defenses 
nationwide, as Wingate boosts the 
No. 1 defense in the nation with a 
0.44 team goals-against average, just 
in front of UC San Diego which only 
allows 0.46 goals per game, good for 
third in the nation. On the other side 
of the bracket, Rockhurst, the No. 8 
defense will face Charleston, the No. 
2 offense.
On their way to the semifinal, 
the Tritons disposed of Western 
Washington (2–0), CCAA foe Cal 
Poly Pomona (1–0) and Midwestern 
State (2–1) in the quarterfinal. 
Throughout the season, UC San 
Diego rode the CCAA best scoring 
offense and defense. The Tritons are 
also in the top five nationally for 
save percentage (.872) and shutout percentage (0.61). UC San Diego is 
also relentless, coming from behind 
seven times during the season to 
win games.
UC San Diego’s success is 
explained by a team coming together 
around its leaders. Redshirt senior 
goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh is 
third nationally with a goals-against 
average of 0.471. He tops Division 
II in save percentage (.869) and is 
second in individual shutouts (13). 
He, along with three other Tritons, 
is an All-West Region selection. 
Senior defender Kuba Waligorski 
and McElfresh made the first 
team and have also been chosen as 
D2CCA All-Americans, while senior 
midfielder Riley Harbour and senior 
forward Sam Palano both made the second team. The Tritons dominated 
the CCAA awards, with McElfresh 
winning CCAA Defensive Player of 
the Y ear and a spot on the All-
CCAA First Team with Harbour and 
Waligorski. Senior midfielder Justice 
Duerksen, Palano and freshman 
defender Kelvin Uribe were selected 
to the second team while redshirt 
junior forward Malek Bashti and 
junior defender Nolan Mac were 
awarded All-CCAA honorable 
mentions. UC San Diego head 
coach Jon Pascale was appointed 
the CCAA Coach of the Year and 
his staff was awarded the Division II 
West Region Staff of the Year.
With an experienced core of eight 
senior players after having none in 
2015, UC San Diego seems as ready as ever to take on the top team 
of the nation. Wingate is unbeaten 
in its conference schedule and has 
shut out all its opponents in the 
National Championship, outscoring 
them 5–0. One goal could be the 
difference in this game between two 
stout defenses, and UC San Diego 
has proven to have a potent offense 
this season which might just be 
enough to pull off the upset. 
In case of a victory, UC San 
Diego would face the winner of the 
game between No. 4 Charleston and 
No. 6 Rockhurst on Saturday, Dec. 3 
at 10 a.m.Tritons Look Forward to NCAA Semifinal Match Today in Missouri
Undefeated since Oct. 27 and CCAA champions for the first time in UCSD’s Division-II history, the 
Tritons hope to continue their stellar record, despite being the underdog, against No. 1 Wingate.MEN'S  SOCCER
BY  M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e r
Managing editor
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu
Dev jain  dajain@ucsd.eduthe last 37 minutes of the game.
It was a night where UC San 
Diego struggled with scoring, as 
the team only shot 35 percent from 
the field and missed 23 of 31 three-
point shots. Cal Poly Pomona shot 
a stellar 52 percent and made seven 
of 10 three-pointers. The Tritons 
were not able take advantage of the 
turnover battle as Cal Poly Pomona 
gave up the ball 18 times compared 
to UCSD’s 13 giveaways.
"I thought that Pomona came out 
and really established a presence both 
offensively and defensively," UC San 
Diego head coach Heidi V anDerveer 
said. "We struggled offensively, and I 
think that carried over to the defensive 
end of the floor."
Senior forward Cassie MacLeod 
had a game-best 15 points on 7 for 14 
shooting with a team-leading seven 
rebounds. Fellow senior guard Beth 
Mounier drilled three three-pointers 
while junior guards Taylor Tanita and 
Paige Song each had seven points. 
Freshman guard Sydney Sharp had 
eight points.
VanDerveer stressed the 
importance of the defensive side 
of the ball. "We need people to 
really commit to play with a higher 
sense of urgency defensively," said 
VanDerveer. "We know that we're 
an excellent offensive team, and if 
we can challenge people defensively, 
we'll be much more effective."
The Broncos’ junior forwards 
Chelsea Waddy-Blow and Alyssa 
Benton led their team, delivering 14 
points each. 
UCSD will host a formidable 
CCAA rival Chico State (5–1) on 
Thursday, Dec. 1 at 5:30 p.m.UCSD Will Host 
Chico State at 
Home T oday
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
CINEMA
PRESENTS
DEC 2 | 8PM | PC THEATERCINEMA
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Tritons Nab Narrow Win at PomonaMEN'S  BASKETBALL
After a tough loss against California Baptist University that ended their win streak, the Tritons were back at it again, beating their CCAA foe 64–62.
by Anthony Tzeng // Senior Staff Writer
The No. 2 2 UC San Diego 
men’s basketball traveled to 
Cal Poly Pomona Tuesday 
night to face the unranked Broncos 
in their conference opener. The 
Tritons, who had lost their first game 
of the season on Nov. 22, rebounded 
against Pomona to improve to 6–1 
overall and 1–0 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Sophomore center Chris Hansen’s 
power moves and second effort were 
the key to UCSD’s 64–62 victory.  
The first half saw both teams 
exhibit strong defense. However, it 
was Pomona’s full-court press that 
tangled the Tritons and limited 
them to only 21 points at the half. It wasn’t until 16:39 that the Tritons 
put points on the board thanks to 
junior guard Anthony Ballestero, 
who drained a three-pointer well 
beyond the three-point line.
After falling 16 points behind, 
UCSD head coach Eric Olen called 
a much-needed time out with 5:19 
left. From then on, the game shifted 
in favor of UC San Diego. 
The Tritons closed the gap with 
four made free throws from Hansen. 
They then scored six unanswered 
points, with freshman guard Ben 
Rico scoring an “and one” and a 
deep three-pointer from senior 
guard Koree Cox. At the end of 
the half, however, Pomona held a comfortable 33–21 lead.
UC San Diego carried the 
momentum into the second half by 
outscoring Pomona 18–4 within the 
first 10 minutes. Hansen got surgical 
and opened the scoring with an 
under-the-basket layup, drawing a 
foul and then making the free throw. 
Later, with 13:19 left on the game 
clock, Hansen got the rebound from 
a missed layup and tipped in the 
ball over several Broncos. However, 
his most notable play came within 
the last minute of the game. Tripled 
team and with seemingly nowhere 
else to go, Hansen split right through 
the defenders and scored on a layup. 
The Tritons were able to take the lead for the first time at 10:43 
with a score of 39–37. From there, 
they had to continually fend off the 
pressing Broncos. Eventually, the 
game came down to key free throws 
from sophomore guard/forward 
Christian Oshita and Ballestero. 
The free throws sustained UC 
San Diego’s lead and propelled it 
to a 64–62 victory, the team’s first 
conference win of the season. 
Hansen finished 8–13 in field 
goals and 8–8 from the free-throw 
line. He recorded his sixth career 
double-double with 24 points and 
10 rebounds. Senior guard Adam 
Klie had a team-high eight assists. 
UC San Diego made a total of six three-pointers and finished 19–57 
in shooting, with 14 of those coming 
in the second half.
"It was a rough start for us 
tonight, ” Olen told the UC San Diego 
Athletics Department. “We had a 
hard time scoring and dug ourselves 
a big hole. I thought we showed a lot 
of resiliency to fight back. I'm proud 
of the way we responded."
UC San Diego will come home 
to play Chico State this Thursday 
evening. The 7:30 p.m. conference 
matchup should prove to be a 
challenge as the Wildcats rank 17th 
and are also 6–1 overall. 
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team started its California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
schedule with a tough road loss to Cal 
Poly Pomona. The Tritons fell 65–56 
and their record is now 4–3 overall. 
Cal Poly Pomona raised its record to 
3–4 in what was the first league match 
for both teams. 
The Tritons had an early two-point 
lead, but the Broncos used an 8–0 run 
to gain a lead that they never gave up. 
Cal Poly Pomona remained ahead for WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY  d e v  j a i n
Senior staff writerUCSD Falls 
to Cal Poly 
Pomona 65–56
Despite the Broncos’ 18 
turnovers, the women were 
unable to sustain a lead in 
their first conference game.Anthony Tzeng  aitzeng@ucsd.eduPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSM. Soccer
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Basketball
Swim & Dive12/1
12/1
12/1
12/12
12/169 AM
5:30 PM
7:30 PM
7 PM
2 PMAT NCAA Championship
VS Chico State
VS Chico State
VS Western Washington
VS Cal State East BayUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES