VOLUME 49, ISSUE 36   THURSDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 25, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TO RAVE OR NOT 
TO RAVE
WITH SO MANY EDM CONCERTS 
AND FESTIVALS TAKING PLACE IN 
SPRING AND SUMMER, IT MIGHT 
BE TEMPTING TO FINALL Y TRY 
ONE OUT . DO NOT KNOW WHAT 
THE RAVE CUL TURE IS ABOUT? 
THE GUARDIAN HAS GOT YOU 
COVERED.
BA THROOMS   FOR   ALL
whether spoon,  fork or spork
improve  record  To  10-2opinion,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 77 L 55FRIDAY
H 72 L 54
SATURDAY
H 71 L 54SUNDAY
H 72 L 56
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE POPULARITY OF VIRTUAL 
REALITY (VR) HAS BEEN RISING 
IN A WAY THAT WILL ALLOW 
IMPORTANT RESOURCES, SUCH 
AS HISTORICAL MONUMENTS, 
TO BECOME MORE 
ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC. 
COMPANIES HAVE INVESTED 
HEAVILY IN VR WITH FACEBOOK 
PURCHASING OCULUS RIFT... ”
- Alexander Chen
TECH IT OUT
OPINON , PAGE 4
INSIDE
TESTOSTERONE  .............. 2
IPHONES AND THE FBI  ....4
ZOOTOPIA REVIEW  .......... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
GOLF BEGINS SEASON  ..12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF WIKIMEDIA
BASEBALL DOMINA TES
UCSD Extension will celebrate 
its 50th anniversary with $50,000 in 
scholarships, as well as a variety of 
special programs and guest speaker 
events. The campaign, titled “The Next 
Fifty Y ears, ” will focus on the initiatives 
and programs that will expand its 
operations in the future.
These programs are meant to 
uphold UCSD Extension’s mission 
to “serve the critical lifelong 
knowledge and skill development 
needs of individuals, organizations 
and the community. ” 
One of the initiatives involves 
offering 10 scholarships worth $5,000 
each to recipients with a high school 
degree or an equivalent who want 
to take UCSD Extension’s courses 
or enroll in certification programs. 
Applicants are required to write a 500-word essay on how UCSD Extension 
will help them in their careers and in 
the pursuit of their passions by July 1. 
Another feature of the 
anniversary is the weekly “Voices 
of the Future” program. This 
initiative will provide leaders in 
the San Diego community with 
speaking opportunities to give their 
insights on technological and social 
advances coming in the next half 
century. These thought leaders will 
come from UCSD faculty, as well 
as members of industry and the 
civic sector. Currently scheduled 
speakers will include award-
winning environmentalist writer 
Barry Lopez and Director of UCSD’s 
Center for Algae Biotechnology 
Stephen Mayfield.
Furthermore, Career Week, which 
will run from March 22–24, will be 
hosted by UCSD Extension in order 
to focus on emerging careers that students could pursue. 
A public conversation with Bill 
Keller, former editor of The New Y ork 
Times, will be held on May 16 in order 
to discuss the evolving criminal justice 
reporting industry and the rapidly 
growing usage of broadcast channels 
and online media.
Dean of UCSD Extension Mary 
Walshok told the UCSD Guardian 
that UCSD Extension has had an 
impact on the San Diego community 
by helping public school teachers 
through technology and foreign-
language usage.
“UCSD was a very new campus 
when I came, nobody had personal 
computers or cellphones, ” Walshok 
said. “Those types of devices have 
transformed the teaching-learning 
process. And so, we serve thousands 
of public school teachers annually with Assemblywoman  
Urges Privacy 
in Wake of  
Court RulingCALIFORNIA
AB 2097 would restrict 
public school districts from 
collecting Social Security 
information from students.
BY   R E B E C CA   C H O N G
Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez 
(D-San Diego) proposed a bill to 
prevent the Social Security numbers 
of California public school students 
from being collected by school districts 
unless required by law on Feb. 17.
Gonzalez’s proposal was a response 
to the recent ruling in Morgan Hill 
Concerned Parents Association, et al. 
v. California Department of Education. 
The ruling orders school districts to 
give the personal information of all 
students who attended a California 
public school from Jan. 1, 2008 and 
onward to the CPA.
Assembly Bill 2097 was proposed in 
conjunction with Assemblymembers 
Melissa Melendez (R-Lake Elsinore) 
and Mike Gatto (D-Los Angeles). 
Gonzalez’s Chief of Staff Evan 
Mclaughlin explained the two goals 
of the bill and how similar situations 
should be dealt with should they arise 
in the future.
“The first is to get schools and 
school districts out of the business of 
collecting certain kinds of sensitive 
information like Social Security 
numbers, as the Department of 
Education acknowledges that there is 
no practical use by a school district 
for the collection of that information 
— zero, ” Mclaughlin said to the 
UCSD Guardian. “Secondly, the 
Assemblywoman and her colleagues 
are exploring whether the bill can 
create a higher standard for the 
release of this information to outside 
organizations … To put a finer 
point on it, can this information be 
organized in a way that preserves 
transparency but that doesn’t put the 
privacy and security of 10 million 
children and their families at risk?”
About 10 million students will 
potentially have their information 
given to the CPA under the 
parameters established by the court 
ruling. The data dump will go to 
the nonprofit Concerned Parents 
Association for research on how 
students with disabilities are treated 
in the public school system. While 
he acknowledged the need for 
transparency in the operations of 
California’s public school system, 
Mclaughlin expressed concern over 
the implications of the legal decision.
“Social Security numbers, medical 
history and discipline records that 
are traceable to individual children 
and their families is very worrisome, 
no matter what kind of private 
organization is receiving them, ” 
Mclaughlin said. “This is a terrible 
precedent to set in the eyes of parents, Labor Group Accuses 
University of  Wage Theft
The American Federation of State, County and 
Municipal Employees Local 3299 filed its second 
complaint against the University of California to the 
state’s Public Employment Relations Board on Feb. 12. In the 
charge, AFSCME Local 3299, the UC system’s largest labor 
union, cited the “abject” wage conditions experienced by the 
UC system’s subcontracted workers. 
The union alleged that the UC system “violated its 
collective bargaining agreement … by entering at least 
five distinct contracts at multiple campuses with private 
firms that pay their workers rock bottom wages for full-
time permanent staffing needs, ” according to a Feb. 19 
press release.
The UC system relies upon subcontracted workers to 
maintain normal operations across all campuses. These 
workers, hired and paid through private companies, work 
in custodial services, food services, security, construction, 
landscaping and other areas.
According to a report generated by AFSCME Local 3299, the University of California enlists at least 45 different 
private contractors across all UC campuses. The same report 
also states that subcontracted workers are paid as much as 53 
percent less than UC workers and do not receive benefits.
President of AFSCME Local 3299 Kathryn Lybarger 
argued that, though these workers are hired and paid by 
private companies, the university is partially responsible for 
the wage theft that occurs.
“[The University of California] is helping some of our 
state’s most notorious employers profit by condemning 
hundreds — if not thousands — of full-time UC workers 
and their families to a life of poverty and exploitation, ” 
Lybarger stated in the press release.
UC Office of the President Media Specialist Kate Moser 
spoke in defense of the administration’s choice to deal with 
the private companies in question.
“There was no violation of the collective bargaining 
agreement, ” Moser told the UCSD Guardian. “[The 
university] complied with the contracts requirements. There B y   JOSH  LEFLER      AROUND CAMPUS
UC SYSTEM
UCSD Extension Celebrates 50th Anniversary
The school is offering scholarships for students to enroll in its courses and programs.See WORKERS , page 3
CAMPUS
BY   M A R I O   E S P I N O Z A
See PRIVACY , page 3 See ANNIVERSARY , page 3
Filmmaker Joshua Oppenheimer spoke at UCSD after screening his documentary “The Look of Silence” on Monday.
Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! 
CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
To set up an interview please 
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com  
or call Stefanie at 516-626-7668. Interviews will be held on 
Friday, February 26th 
10:00 AM – 4:00 PM at 
the Career Services Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. Olga is touching her hands to her 
laptop, affectionately. “It’s weird” — Jose, out of context, but 
in relation to the event.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Christian Duarte, Oliver Kelton,
Josh Lefler, Sam Velazquez, Nathan WalkerA team of researchers from the 
UCSD School of Medicine and 12 
other medical centers in the U.S. 
found that testosterone treatment 
for men over 65 improves sexual 
function, walking ability and mood. 
The findings were published in the 
New England Journal of Medicine 
on Feb. 18.
The scientists partnered with 
the National Institute on Aging to 
conduct a coordinated set of seven 
double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials, which the researchers referred 
to as TTrials. Participants received 
either skin-applied testosterone gel 
or placebo gel over the course of a 
year. The team has only analyzed the 
first three trials regarding impact on 
sexual function, physical function 
and vitality.
In addition, they used previous 
research that established a 
correlation between decreased 
testosterone levels and aging 
as a framework to conduct this 
research. Susan Ellenberg, a co-
author of the paper and professor 
of biostatistics at the Hospital of 
the University of Pennsylvania, 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
team was investigating the effects of testosterone treatment in older 
men and found evidence regarding 
its efficacy.
“The purpose was to find out 
whether testosterone treatment of 
older men with low testosterone 
offered any clear benefits, ” Ellenberg 
said. “The findings indicated some 
modest to moderate benefits. ”
Participants who received 
testosterone reported better sexual 
function than those who received 
the placebo and were more likely 
to report that their walking ability 
was better. Although testosterone 
had minimal benefits to vitality, it 
was associated with considerable 
benefits with respect to mood and 
depressive symptoms.
Elizabeth Barrett-Connor, study 
lead at the UCSD School of Medicine 
and Distinguished Professor in 
Family Medicine and Public Health, 
said the outcome of the research 
showed positive influences on 
the aversive effects of inadequate 
testosterone concentrations.
“Low testosterone levels can 
result in excessive fatigue, weakness, 
depression and the loss of sexual 
drive in men over 65, ” Barrett-
Connor told the UCSD Newsroom. 
“The results of the TTrials show 
for the first time that testosterone 
treatment of older men who have unequivocally low testosterone 
levels does have some benefit, 
including improved walking ability, 
sexual function and mood, with a 
decrease in depressive symptoms. ”
The Food and Drug 
Administration has been attempting 
to restrict overprescription of 
testosterone gels and injections due 
to the potentially adverse affects 
on the human body. Last March, 
the FDA ordered pharmaceutical 
companies to clearly label that 
testosterone supplements are 
approved only to treat low levels 
caused by disease or injury, not by 
normal aging.
Since only three of the seven 
TTrials have been evaluated, 
principal investigator of the TTtrials 
and professor at the University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine 
Peter J. Snyder pointed out that the 
final verdict regarding testosterone 
treatment efficacy will depend on 
the results of the other four trials as 
well as risk assessment.
“Decisions about testosterone 
treatment for these men will also 
depend on the results of the other four 
trials — Cognitive Function, Bone, 
Cardiovascular, and Anemia — and 
the risks of testosterone treatment, ” 
Snyder said in a press release. “[The 
findings] should have no immediate effect on prescribing practices. ”
Ellenberg added that the FDA 
seems to be focusing more on 
determining potential risks of 
testosterone supplement over the 
potential benefits.
“This [research] is one of 
the largest, if not the largest 
comparative trial [on testosterone], ” 
Ellenberg said. “The FDA is asking 
for testosterone manufacturers to 
do a much larger study to assess 
potential risks. ”
In light of the testosterone 
supplement controversy, professor of 
Medicine at the Oregon Health and 
Science University Doctor Eric Orwoll 
indicated that these findings could 
lead to further exploring the effects of 
the hormone in medical treatments.
“[This] report is important, 
not only because it deals with an 
essential public health issue but 
also because the investigators have 
succeeded in conducting the kind 
of well-conceived studies that 
are sorely needed, ” Orwoll wrote 
in his analysis of the paper. “The 
findings begin to provide a basis 
for more rational clinical decisions 
about testosterone use as well as for 
additional research. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Study Shows Testosterone Treatment Benefits Older Men
The hormone improves sexual and physical activity, as well as mood of men over the age of 65 deficient in testosterone.
By  m i n g - r a y  l i a o
ming-ra y liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ORMARCH 2, 20 16
Students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents can submit the FAFSA online at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA, 
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:www.fafsa.ed.gov
  
 If you have not yet completed your 2015 tax return, estimate the amounts and then 
update your estimates once your tax returns are filed.  FAFSA filers can update using the 
IRS Data Retrieval tool via FAFSA on the web.  California Dream Act Application can 
update your estimates at www.CalDreamAct.org .
   
FINANCIAL AID 2016-17REAPPLY FOR
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or 
California Dream Act Application is:
Use UCSD school co de 00131700 .
Use UCSD school code 001317. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 534-4480.are appropriate reasons for working 
with individual contractors, and the 
rationale employed by the campus 
was sound. ”
Moser was quick to point out that 
under last year’s Fair W age/Fair Work 
Plan, all service contractors must 
comply with the established minimum 
wage of $15 and that a hotline exists for 
workers to report wage theft directly to 
the UCOP .
In addition, AFSCME Local 3299 
called for a “speaker’s boycott” at UC 
Berkeley on Feb. 4 to bring awareness 
to the issue and force the UC Berkeley 
administration to act.
As part of the boycott, set to begin 
during Spring Semester 2016, CME 
is urging leaders and figures with 
scheduled speaking events at UC 
Berkeley to postpone or cancel their 
speeches until the administration 
agrees to bring nearly 100 currently 
subcontracted workers under UC 
employment.
Antonio Ruiz, a UC Berkeley 
parking attendant and subcontracted 
worker, stated in an AFSCME Local 3299 press release that his contributions 
to the UC Berkeley campus warranted 
treatment as a bona-fide UC employee.
“I’m not asking for special 
treatment, just for the dignity and 
respect that my twenty-plus years of 
service to the University of California 
demands, ” Ruiz said. “For me, 
becoming a UC employee would mean 
I no longer need to work two jobs and 
worry about whether my employer will 
pay me for all the hours I’ve worked. ”
Since the boycott was called on Feb. 
4, a combination of state senators, state 
assemblymembers, political activists 
and nonprofit directors have decided 
to honor the boycott. Former President 
Bill Clinton has scheduled a speaking 
event from April 1–3, but has yet to 
announce a formal decision.
AFSCME Local 3299 Spokesman 
Todd Stenhouse pointed out that 
the private companies with which 
UC Berkeley and other campuses 
collaborate have a track record of 
unlawful business practices.
“[The University of California] 
is effectively rewarding companies 
under investigation from the U.S. 
Department of Labor for wage theft, a company facing 140 adjudicated wage 
theft claims since 2010, and another 
[facing] a half-dozen wage and hour 
claims in the past year, ” Stenhouse told 
the UCSD Guardian.
One of the private companies, 
Performance First Building Services, 
is currently under investigation for 
claims that the custodial workforce 
it hired to clean up UC Berkeley’s 
sporting events was underpaid and 
denied overtime for weeks in which 
they sometimes worked over 80 hours.
Though most action against the 
current subcontractor system has 
occurred on the UC Berkeley campus, 
Stenhouse warns that the problem of 
underpaid subcontractors is occurring 
across all campuses.
“Subcontracting what should 
be good UC jobs to poverty wage 
employers is a systemic problem at 
UC, ” Stenhouse told the Guardian. 
“We have identified dozens of such 
contracts across the UC system, and 
there are more coming online all 
the time. ”
josh  lefler   Union Calls for Speakers to Boycott UC Berkeley in Support of  Cause
▶ WORKERS,  from page 1
like Assemblywoman Gonzalez, who 
are rightly worried about the privacy 
of their children. ”
The CPA has been involved in 
the aforementioned court case since 
2012, finally receiving the ruling that 
will allow the association to access 
the information it has requested. 
The information will be used in a 
statistical analysis to determine if the 
California Department of Education 
has been remiss in providing special 
needs students with the appropriate 
educational resources. The association’s 
website addresses some the concerns 
many parents have, including the 
reasoning behind such a large-scale 
data dump.
“We need data about every student 
in California so that our statistician 
can … pull a representative sample 
of the whole population, ” the CPA ’s 
website claims. “We need this 
information in order to verify or refute 
CDE’s contention that its educational 
programs are compliant with state 
and federal law and need no further 
oversight or correction. ”
Students can opt out of having 
their information given to the CPA 
through a form on the CDE’s websites 
that must be mailed in to the CDE 
office by April 1, 2016. Warren College third-year Amy Nguyen, who 
is a current Policy Intern with the 
Governor’s Office of Planning and 
Research, felt that sufficient notice 
and publicity was not given for the 
matter.
“I think California school districts 
need to do a better job of publicizing 
this court ruling and making resources 
and information more available to 
parents and students so that they 
can have a chance to make decisions 
regarding their personal information, ” 
Nguyen told the Guardian. 
Nguyen also felt that the CPA ’s 
cause was worthwhile but also that the 
wide scope of the data dump did not 
seem appropriate for the population 
being studied. 
“Personally, I feel like there is 
disconnect between the amount of 
information being released and the 
goals of the organization, ” Nguyen 
said. “Setting SSNs aside, to release 
the information of 10 million 
students in order to address an 
arguably smaller percentage sounds 
like overkill to me. Keeping that in 
mind, I believe that there is a way for 
both information privacy and the 
organization’s mission to go hand-
in-hand without one jeopardizing 
the other. ”Students Can Opt Out of  Data Collection
▶ PRIVACY ,  from page 1
rebecca chong   updates on technology and foreign 
languages. ”
Walshok also noted that UCSD 
Extension helps classrooms adjust to 
student diversity. 
“Look at the demographics of the 
public school classroom compared to 
30 years ago, ” Walshok added. “It’s 
much more diverse; many more 
languages are taught. We help people 
adjust to those changes. ”
Established in 1966, UCSD 
Extension has served as the professional education and public service division 
of UCSD. 
For example, the Clinical Trials and 
Search Programs established in 1998 
offers specialized certificates in clinical 
trials administration and clinical trials 
design and management. 
Another example can be seen 
with its Health Law Master’s Degree, 
which equips its recipients with 
knowledge on subjects such as 
ethics and management practices 
that intersect with healthcare and 
legal domains. 
Walshok hopes that UCSD, in conjunction with UCSD Extension, 
will change education to be suited 
for the modern world.
“Understanding what’s 
happening in Syria [and] the 
Zika epidemic — these are things 
that require knowledge and [are] 
immediate and current, ” Walshok 
said. “My hope is that in the next 50 
years, lifelong learning will be [the] 
core to what the university does as 
opposed to [being] marginal. ”  Walshok: Extension Programs Encourage Diversity in Education
Mario  espinoza   ▶ ANNIVERSARY ,  from page 1Looking for the 
New Business Column?
Now posted every Wednesday night, 
after the A.S. Council meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
INCLUSIVE  
BA THROOMS  
FOR ALL
Apple CEO Tim Cook’s public 
decision to refuse to hack into 
the iPhone of San Bernardino 
attacker Syed Rizwan Farook is an 
unprecedented step in the fight 
against government surveillance. 
The FBI wants Apple to build an 
unparalleled security flaw into 
Farook’s iPhone; however, once 
created, this software can be 
used on any iPhone for nefarious 
purposes, as cited in Apple’s open 
letter to its customers. 
Although the actions committed 
by the San Bernardino attackers are 
tragic, it does not justify the extreme 
backdoor the FBI wants to create and 
their demands that Apple create a 
special operating system which, when 
installed on the iPhone, would disable 
security features. Once created, this 
exploit could be used on any iPhone 
without the user knowing, presenting 
a clear and serious risk to civil 
liberties. Apple has rightfully taken a 
hard stance against such needless and 
extreme measures in order to protect 
our data and privacy.
 The FBI wants Apple to create a 
backdoor which, once opened, can 
be replicated on any iPhone without 
the user knowing. The potential 
backdoor works by tricking the 
iPhone into accepting a supposedly 
official “update” from Apple which 
disables security features on the 
iPhone, according to Mashable. 
However, the FBI requires Apple to create this software since iPhones will 
only accept certified Apple updates, 
another important part of security. 
As far as we know, the government 
cannot directly access an iPhone at 
this time; instead they rely on tracking 
website traffic or requiring wireless 
carriers to provide info on phone calls 
or texts. Therefore, the FBI needs a 
backdoor in order to access data on 
iPhones, which can then be replicated 
on any iPhone, creating a privacy risk 
for their owners. There is little reason 
to trust that the FBI will not give 
this technology to the NSA and use 
it to spy on the millions of iPhones 
domestically and internationally. 
In addition, the FBI already has 
other tools to fight terrorism that do 
not involve creating a ‘master key’ 
into every iPhone. They can gather 
information by collecting data from 
wireless carrier companies, as shown 
in the Snowden leaks. Also, Facebook 
granted access to the terrorists’ 
accounts and confirmed they were in 
contact with members of ISIS without 
needing to build a global backdoor 
into all their systems. To be clear, 
warrants are necessary for the justice 
system to function, but warrants are 
designed to be narrow searches or 
seizures focused on a specific target, 
not a broad invasion of privacy. The 
FBI’s demand that Apple assist it in 
undermining a crucial aspect of the 
iPhone security system, therefore, are 
well beyond the scope of just a single phone; instead the proposed backdoor 
violates everyone’s privacy.
There is little reason to believe 
that, if the government receives 
this backdoor, they will limit their 
surveillance to suspected terrorists. 
As reported by the BBC, the NSA 
has been collecting phone records 
of millions of U.S. citizens for years, 
the vast majority of whom have no 
relation to terrorism. 
It’s reasonable to assume that if the 
NSA is given this tool, it will deploy 
it whenever possible in the name of 
national security. If Apple is forced 
to build a backdoor into the iPhone, 
it will set a dangerous precedent 
that all tech companies will have to 
create a loophole into their products 
for government surveillance. This 
will heavily discourage international 
sales of U.S. technology goods, 
since foreign citizens will not want 
to purchase a device that is being 
tapped by the American government. 
Bloomberg has estimated that U.S. 
tech companies lose $35 billion a year 
in potential growth or sales from fears 
about U.S. surveillance, although that 
number is likely to grow substantially 
in coming years.
The UCSD Guardian’s Editorial 
Board applaud Apple in its fight 
for civil liberties. Overreaching 
government surveillance is a serious 
threat to the Fourth Amendment. 
This is true for surveillance, regardless 
of what form it may take.Apple Protects Fourth Amendment Rights by Refusing Creation of  Backdoor
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Gender-inclusive restrooms, unlike traditional gender-
binary restrooms, allow users to forego considering 
social constructs of what it means to be male or female. 
The UCSD Guardian’s Editorial Board applauds the UC 
system’s decision to create more spaces that accommodate 
all students and to further promote inclusion and open-
mindedness on our campuses.
This decision comes at a time when more and more 
cities and schools across the United States have been 
making strides to become more inclusive. More than 150 
universities have created gender-inclusive restrooms, 
with some institutions grappling over what phrase would 
embody the facility best. Even Miraloma Elementary School 
— in San Francisco, unsurprisingly — has dismantled 
gender-specific restrooms in order to accommodate six 
to eight students who do not identify with traditional 
gender norms. Philadelphia, Seattle, Washington, D.C., 
West Hollywood and Austin are cities that have passed 
laws to mandate single-stall restrooms be gender neutral. 
These gender-inclusive single stalls can help combat several 
scenarios of day-to-day challenges: A parent and child 
can use these restrooms freely, and senior caregivers and their patients will not have to avoid the gaze of onlooking 
individuals. And if there ever was a long line at either 
traditional gendered bathroom, there can now be two 
bathrooms available for all genders. These bathrooms are as 
progressive as they are practical.
By removing societal constructs from restroom usage, 
transgendered and gender-nonconforming individuals are 
less likely to face discrimination or anxiety when deciding 
to use a public restroom or not. The beating of Chrissy Lee 
Polis in a McDonald’s restroom in Baltimore was a high-
profile case for trans-rights activists and representative 
of what could happen with gender-binary bathrooms 
in place. Even one of the students from Miraloma faced 
difficulty choosing which facility to use at a summer camp 
and instead relieved himself in his pants. Opponents of 
gender-inclusive restrooms argue that they will lead to 
higher rates of sexual assault against women. In 2015, 
Houston rejected the Houston Equal Rights ordinance, 
which aimed at preventing discrimination by employers 
and housing officials on grounds of sex, race, religion and 
gender identity. Those who defeated the bill framed it as the 
“bathroom ordinance, ” claiming that anti-discrimination 
See GENDER NEUTRAL, page 5UCSD is one of  more than 150 universities with  gender 
inclusive restrooms, helping to make college a safer environment for 
transgender and non-gender conforming students. ILLUSTRA TION   B Y CHRISTINA CARLSONThe popularity of virtual reality 
(VR) has been rising in a way that 
will allow important resources, such 
as historical monuments, to become 
more accessible to the public. 
Companies have invested heavily 
in VR with Facebook purchasing 
Oculus Rift for $2 billion in 2014, 
according to The Guardian. Other 
companies such as Samsung, HTC 
and Sony have made their own VR 
headsets with varying degrees of 
success. VR’s power of delivering 
immersive content has the potential 
to not only deliver a more engaging 
media experience but also preserve 
history as archeologists are 
currently using 3-D mapping to 
preserve ancient landmarks with VR 
photos and videos. The applications 
of VR are endless and we are only 
beginning to unearth the potential 
of VR and its significance.
To break down VR, imagine 
watching your favorite movie 
but instead of looking at the 
composition that the director/
cinematographer has chosen, you 
are able to turn your head, looking 
up and down and side to side, 
viewing the entire scene in 360 
degrees. This ability to change your 
perspective based on what catches 
your interest serves to immerse the 
viewer further into the virtual world 
of media content. Applications 
with photos and videos are being 
explored but further implications 
of this technology have yet to be 
investigated. 
With the destruction of priceless 
historical artifacts and sites by 
militant groups such as ISIS, this 
technology offers an opportunity 
for both archeologists and common 
individuals to experience these 
historical artifacts and sites. 
Tech Times reports that Project 
Mosul aims to preserve artifacts 
by constructing 3-D models of 
the artifacts to be consumed 
through VR. With this tech gear, 
archeologists are able to study 
the relic and people can view 
the artifact even when it’s been 
destroyed.
Similarly, the Wired reports that 
one of Salvador Dali’s paintings 
has been constructed for VR by a 
creative agency, Goodby Silverstein 
& Partners. This 360 video in 
addition to reviving an older 
painting breathes new life into the 
world of art. The video presents 
another dimension in which the 
viewer is able to interact with the 
artist and his work. Although some 
content exists online already, this 
technology has yet to see everyday 
consumers upload VR photos on 
Instagram or Snapchat. Despite the 
fact that Youtube and Facebook 
now support VR content, it has 
yet to catch on with mainstream 
audiences. With the support of 
social media, people will gradually 
become further immersed in 3-D 
environments. 
If you’re still unconvinced about 
the implications of this technology, 
imagine a day in which the virtual 
world becomes indistinguishable 
from the “real” world we experience 
on a daily basis. The Verge says 
that stereoscopic sound, or binaural 
audio, seeks to complement VR 
content as it provides a likewise 
immersive auditory experience, 
replicating the way in which we 
hear sounds in everyday life. While 
we still lack the technology to 
replicate the textures and sensations 
for various objects, VR is quickly 
developing complete immersion in 
a digital environment with many 
positive effects on society.ALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
Virtual Reality,
Immersed in
MediaOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
SOCIAL JUSTICE AT UC SAN DIEGO
SPONSORED BYUNDOCUMENTED.
UNAFRAID.
UNAPOLOGETIC.
Jose Antonio Vargas:
February 25 5pm – 7pm
PC East BallroomPulitzer Prize-Winning Journalist and Filmmaker
Race, Privilege, and Immigration
in the United States
Undocumented Student Services Center
Jose Antonio Vargas is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and filmmaker 
whose work centers on the changing American identity. He is the founder of 
Define American, a non-profit media and culture organization that seeks to 
elevate the conversation around immigration and citizenship in America, and 
the founder and editor of #EmergingUS, a digital magazine focusing on race, 
immigration, and identity in a multicultural America that will launch in 2016. 
In 2015, MTV aired, as part of its “Look Different” campaign, White People, a 
television special he produced and directed on what it means to be young and 
white in contemporary America.
Pepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduimpact  
 leo’s  
  life
Transform the lives of children with 
a Master of Arts in Teaching 
(with preliminary credential) 
from Pepperdinestatutes would lead to sexual 
assaults. Although this won favor 
over enough of Houston’s citizens, 
gender-inclusive restrooms are not 
meant so that men and women 
can use the restroom together. The 
primary reason for these restrooms 
is to provide transgender and 
gender-nonconforming individuals 
with a safe option to choose without 
fear of discrimination.
Although the UC system 
has mandated the conversion 
of single-stall restrooms to be 
gender neutral — implying only 
one individual can use it at a 
time — this is still an advance for 
deconstructing traditional gender norms. By removing signs denoting 
gender, there is the likelihood that 
individuals may question why it 
was even there in the first place. A 
restroom serves the same purpose 
for all genders — why can’t all 
genders use the same restroom?
Separate spheres for males and 
females were normalized during the 
Victorian times and the division has 
held strongly throughout American 
history. With the notion of public 
and private spheres dominating 19th 
century America, certain public 
spaces were also labeled as “male” 
and “female, ” contributing to our 
present-day gendered restrooms. 
Restrooms have been an area of 
contention in our history. African 
Americans were segregated before the civil rights era in the 1960s. 
Disabled people did not have readily 
accessible restrooms until the 
Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990 mandated them on the federal 
level. And now, gender-inclusive 
restrooms are part of the next step 
in promoting access and inclusion 
for transgender and gender-
nonconforming individuals. UC 
campuses should allow themselves 
flexibility in their approaches to 
heteronormative structures and to 
empowering students who identify 
outside the traditional gender 
binary. The more widespread these 
restrooms become across the UC 
system, the more weight the UC 
system’s message for a diverse and 
inclusive campus actually has. ▶ GENDER NEUTRAL from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC’s Inclusion of  Gender Neutral Bathrooms are Step in Right Direction
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianRAVES 101
10 TIPS FOR A BEGINNER RAVER
BY SHELBY NEWALLIS // LIFESTYLE SENIOR STAF WRITERCompiled by  Olga Golubkova and Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editors
Go with people you know and trust. Many of your friends can be fun to be 
around, but people who have been to a rave before make the best company.
Don’t separate from your friends, decide on a meeting spot in case 
someone is lost. Not exactly like Disneyland, but you get the idea.
Hydration is key. So many factors can dehydrate you — summer heat, 
strong drinks, intense dance moves, so consider taking a camelback. 
Respect people around you. Chances are, you might be the one who needs 
a Dasani, nap or LifeAlert to get you going again, so get some altruism 
circulating in the rave. 
We recommend that you consider sober raving, but if you decide to drink 
or take drugs, do it responsibly: do the research on whatyou are putting in 
your body, check your substances, never mix them and have a responsible 
and experienced friend to take care of you in case something goes wrong.
If you are sick, don’t be afraid to go to the first-aid tent, they are incredibly 
friendly folk. They are there for a reason, and they probably won’t ask for 
what insurance plan you carry.
When raving outside during the summer season, pack a sunscreen, a hat, 
sunglasses and aloe vera gel. 
Comfortable attire is a must. Understandably, sweatpants and hoodies 
aren’t the go-to here, but just know that moshing for 24 hours in leather 
leggings and six-inch platforms may not be your best strategy. 
Make sure your phone is sufficiently charged at all times. To facilitate the 
charging process on the go, consider investing in a solar power bank.
Before going to a festival, please check the list of allowed items and pack 
accordingly. For all you J-type ravers out there, this is probably already on 
your pre-checklist, but for the P-types, take a hint from your friends and at 
least plan to pack your ticket, and know how to get there — at the very least. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
We all probably know at least one person who has come back from a 
rave, gushing about how nice the people were and the way the lights 
and music “took them to a higher state of being” . Whether it’s the 
lights, music or some other substance, the UCSD Guardian is curious to learn 
how raves have become the social and cultural phenomenon that they are today. 
So what is a rave? Everyone’s trusty pal Google defines a rave as: a large dance 
party featuring performances by DJs and the occasional live performer playing 
electronic music, particularly electronic dance music. The term “rave” started 
coming into use around the late 1980s to describe a subculture that grew out of 
music with a “squelching” bass sound. Raves may last for up to ten hours and are 
largely associated with the use of MDMA (otherwise known as ecstasy) — which 
is why the location of raves started primarily underground to prevent police 
interference. 
Nowadays, raves and rave culture is hardly kept a secret. Outdoor electronic 
music festivals such as Electric Daisy Carnival in Las Vegas and Tomorrowland 
in Belgium have become internationally sought-after events. Ravers travel 
from all over the world for these large-scale outdoor festivals that promise 
unforgettable light shows, music and atmosphere.
Another important part of raving is rave attire. Women generally dress in 
bedazzled bras, bright colored fuzzy leg warmers, possibly a fanny pack and 
stockings. Men’s attire is not as defined and is often as simple as a brightly 
colored bro-tank and shorts. Accessories play a big role in rave culture and the 
community that ravers believe it creates. Often ravers will wear several beaded 
bracelets, which they call Kandi to exchange PLUR  (peace, love, unity, respect) 
with a fellow raver. These random acts of kindness are initiated by a shaking of 
hands and the following gestures: 
1. Two people make peace signs (Peace)
2. They form their hands into hearts (Love)
3. They join their hearts (Unity)
4. They slide their bracelets from hand to hand (Respect)
Intrigued to see how rave culture has taken UCSD by storm? Read on to find 
out how San Diego students personalize their own rave style!
6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  this weekend
©2016 Torrey Holistics. All rights reserved. We operate in full compliance with: The Compassionate Use Act of 1996, Health & Safety code  
sections 11362.5, 11362.7, 11362.775, AB-266, AB-243 and SB-643. Conditional Use Permit No. 1371299February 27th and 28th • 9am to 9pm
Join us to celebrate the opening of San Diego’s newest legal city licensed  
Medical Cannabis Dispensary.
10671 Roselle Street, Suite 100, San Diego, California 92121Bring in this advertisement and get a  
FREE GIFT BAG  
with purchase on your first visittorreyholistics.com
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
What about the “Don’t knock it till you try it (or Google it)” philosophy? 
So I Googled it and... no. I mean, I’ve probably thought about trying it out once but... Not 
only would I feel so out-of-place, but it just seems... weird. I don’t feel at-home with alcohol, 
drugs and people who frequently consume alcohol and drugs. Not to mention the “cute rave 
outfits” seem to only be in size “thin, average-height white girl. ” All in all, like I said before: 
not my scene. Will probably never be my scene. I’m only comfortable with intense rainbow-
colored flashes of light in my anime, sorry!A:G:When you think of raves, what comes to mind? Why are they something you’re not into? GUARDIAN :
When I think of the word “rave, ” I think clubbing with glow sticks and some weed in 
the mix, maybe. Or maybe pills. Who knows. I don’t go to raves. Much for the same 
reasons I don’t like going to clubs, I don’t feel like raving is my cup of tea either — both don’t fit 
into my social comfort zone (or my physical one, either). Honestly though, the strobe lights, the 
grinding, the glow sticks, etc... They’re just not my scene. Of course, I could be completely wrong; 
I’ve never been to a rave. But from what I’ve heard from friends, I’ d probably just be standing in 
a corner drinking orange juice because I can’t dance, a small person like me would probably get 
smothered in the human sweat pile on the dance floor and I don’t like hanging out with people 
who are intoxicated and/or high.ANON :Skeptic
Anonymous  — Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Given these responsibilities then, do you have a preference as to being a DJ or part of the audience?
Honestly, I enjoy both sides of the spectrum, but for different reasons. I enjoy being an audience 
member because I experience what I would like to see in the DJ, as well as the fact that I love music! 
However, I also enjoy being a DJ because I then have the opportunity to actualize what I’ve learned 
as part of being an audience member. Being a DJ is wonderful in my eyes because I get to express my 
own musical and performance interests on stage in front of other people, as well as establish a brand 
for myself and put myself out there.H:G:Being extremely isolated from the rest of the crowd, how does the DJ’s experience 
differ from the audience’s?GUARDIAN :
The experience is different in a number of ways. Firstly, the DJ has to hold the responsibility 
to be accountable for his performance, with preparations including having a set list 
prepared, being adept in playing a variety of genres, understanding his audience and venue, being 
able to adapt to the audience’s mood, as well as having the skills to proficiently manage and utilize the 
equipment. Secondly, these obligations of the DJ go beyond the concert setting — a DJ spends many 
hours discovering new music, organizing the music into playlists and rehearsing sets to reproduce live, 
all behind the scenes in their own time. So the final product that the audience experiences on stage, 
similar to any other live show the audience might see, is well rehearsed and planned, but is just as 
organic due to the live nature of the performance. HABIB:DJ
Habib Sabbagh  — Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-EditorWhat got you going to more festivals and raves?
 I would say it was that special sense of community, as today we live in a 
society in which it is hard for people to be kind to each other. Just by walking 
around the festival, I saw so many people who expressed their culture through 
dance and outfits they wear and happily shared things about them in numerous 
conversations. At the majority of festivals and raves, people are very open, 
friendly and nonjudgmental, but from my experience, it still largely depends 
on the setting of a festival, music and organizers’ ability to set the right mood. 
Raves are controversial, because on the one hand, raving culture can bring 
people together, but on the other hand, not all people who come to raves really 
understand this culture. Admittedly, some of them get violent and forget about 
common sense safety rules. For example, at Hard Summer Festival two women 
died due to drug abuse. So educating ravers is still organizers’ responsibility.D:G:What was the first rave or music festival you have ever attended?GUARDIAN :
The first festival I have attended was Coachella. To me, it was a 
truly magical place, because all people came to the desert with 
the same goal — to enjoy company, music and dancing. Everyone seemed 
truly happy, which created a strong feeling of community. At Coachella, you 
can meet new people, chill on the grass sipping on beer and just forget about 
reality for some time — all while listening to some great artists.DIANA:RAVE ENTHUSIAST
Diana Wu Wong   — Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-EditorMany ravers believe that rave culture rests on the PLUR principle. Do you think this is true?
As I said, it is often a form of idealization of rave culture. However, I have definitely 
seen so-called PLUR in action, especially when somebody needed help because of 
dehydration and heat strokes. I have seen people being very caring at Hard Summer, but I 
have also witnessed older people at Life Is Beautiful Festival in Las Vegas judging those who 
did not feel well, assuming they were not sober. Y ou cannot expect the same level of support 
at all festivals, especially when it comes to newly established events.D:G:
Is sober raving possible?
Kaskade, one of the most famous people in EDM today, is a sober DJ who has been 
long advocating for drug-free raving. Many of my friends have also avoided taking 
drugs at raves, as they come to festivals to simply enjoy music. So it is possible to have 
fun at a rave without drugs, but since they enhance many people’s perception of music 
and feeling of unity with other attendees, I don’t think rave culture, as a whole, will ever 
become drug-free.D:G:
Do you have any thoughts on how to make raves safer?
Turning raves into a safer environment is a complicated process, because they are not 
widely accepted across all groups of people. Since the majority of dangerous cases are 
caused by alcohol and drug abuse, many members of society prefer to condemn those who 
end up abusing the substances, instead of educating ravers about drug safety. Luckily, there 
are online resources, including Y outube videos, blogs and forums that allow festival attendants 
to do their own research on drugs that have always been a part of raving experience. Ravers 
willingly share their advice, because they want to help others enjoy their time at raves and 
festivals as much as they themselves do.D:G:SLA Y  
PLA Y  
   O R 
ST A Y8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
For more info visit www.facebook.com/ASFirstY earSenators Drop by anytime to learn how you can get involved on campus 
and enjoy a sweet treat on us!
In a world where all kind of 
animals dress in clothes and 
live together in harmony, Judy 
Hopps (Ginnifer Goodwin) works 
her way up to become the first rabbit 
police officer in history. Working 
with gigantic animals such as buffalos 
and hippos, she eagerly wants to 
prove that she is capable of being a 
“real cop” despite her petite size. She 
optimistically takes on an extremely 
difficult case that must be solved in 
48 hours; fortunately, she is clever 
enough to get the help of Nick Wilde 
(Jason Bateman), a fox making money 
through tricking and cheating others. 
The partnership between a sly fox and 
a righteous bunny is a surprisingly 
compatible one as they collaborate to 
save the utopia-in-danger.
The main plot closely resembles 
an old-fashioned crime story in which 
heroes prevent the world from being 
destroyed by villains, which reduces 
the level of its originality. However, 
this new Disney cartoon has added 
many elements that make it special 
and refreshing. To begin with, you’ d be amazed by how ridiculously funny it 
is — there is a laugh almost every 30 
seconds. The seven writers know how 
to use the diverse characteristics of 
various animals creatively to make the 
story more appealing to the audience, 
and the next moment usually comes 
as surprise. While it is a cartoon that 
easily attracts children, the film tells a 
few jokes that only grown-ups would 
understand, making it clear that this is 
not a work merely designed for kids.
The chemistry between Judy 
and Nick is intriguing because they 
have very different personalities. The 
two animals not only are intimate 
friends and perfect partners at work, 
but also have a subtle tendency 
towards romance. Who cares if they 
are different species? They are in 
Zootopia, an imaginative utopia where 
everyone of any race is equal and can 
be whatever they want to be.
The film’s deeper message is 
more political than one might 
perceive from the trailer: It deals 
with race, social justice and 
stereotypes. Judy is the shining symbol of justice as she attempts 
to save predators made savage who 
face the danger of losing their mind 
forever. Under such circumstances, 
the other animals become wary of 
the predators and begin to avoid 
them, a scenario speaking to the 
issue of stereotyping strangers.
The film would not be a hit if the 
voice cast had not been fantastic and 
well-selected. Goodwin and Bateman’s 
engaging performances make you feel 
that their voices are made for Judy and 
Nick, while Shakira brings a pop-star 
effect to the movie as a gazelle singer, 
alluring fans in the theatre. 
“Zootopia” is a successful film 
and a considerable rival to the other 
upcoming animation movies in 
terms of creativity because it presents 
themes that speak differently, but 
appeal, to both adults and children. 
Overall, it is visually pleasant, funny 
and engaging. Y ou couldn’t ask for 
anything more.  
—Yidian   Huang
Staff Writer
zootopiaDirected by   Byron Howard, Rich Moore
Starring   Ginnifer Goodwin, Jason Bateman
Rated  PG
Release Date  Mar. 4
The new, vibrant Disney comedy is an excellently 
produced cartoon that will attract adult audiences.“Zootopia” piqued 
immense interest with 
its promised blend of 
sloth-full humor and neo-noir 
accents set against the backdrop of 
a city made up of anthropomorphic 
animals. Perhaps this exact 
combination has never been done 
before, but there are certainly 
echoes of the past here. Really, 
it feels like an amalgamation of 
post-war noir and the buddy-cop 
films of the 1980s. Both genres 
have a storied tradition, but in this 
case, because the animation is such 
an integral part of the narrative, 
there is only one predecessor to 
“Zootopia” in the purest sense.
“Who Framed Roger Rabbit?” 
was an homage to the Golden 
Age of Animation as much as it 
ripped inspiration from the pages 
of Raymond Chandler. But it also 
did something that Disney very 
rarely did. It felt edgier, darker and 
more risqué while still wrapping 
these sensibilities up in the throes 
of Richard Williams’ meticulous 
animation. Director Robert 
Zemeckis, fresh off “Back to the 
Future, ” perfectly placed live-action 
characters right next to animated 
ones, and it worked to the nth 
degree as a cinematic hybrid. The best homages pay their 
respects and still muster up the 
necessary resources to carve out a 
niche of their own. They are not 
solely a gimmick or, in this case, a 
technical marvel. The eponymous 
Roger Rabbit finds time to stretch 
the limits of the frame visually, 
but he’s also the story’s obligatory 
victim. Meanwhile, Bob Hoskins’ 
turn as a gumshoe falls in line 
nicely with the likes of Sam Spade 
and Philip Marlowe. A seething 
villain was born in Judge Doom 
(voiced by Christopher Lloyd), only 
to be surpassed by the beguiling 
femme fatale, Jessica Rabbit (voiced 
by Kathleen Turner).
“Who Framed Roger Rabbit?” 
stands on its own merit as not only 
a feat of cutting edge animation 
or wicked wit, but visceral noir 
storytelling. Disney may have gone 
a little safer with “Zootopia, ” but 
that’s not to say that it cannot be a 
similarly gripping and resolutely 
amusing experience. Sloths and noir 
sounds like a winning combination 
if there ever was one. 
—  Tynan   Y anaga
Senior Staff WriterRetrospective  Review:
“WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT?” (1988)
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
PHOTO COURTESY O F SLANTFILM   REVIEW THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
SOVAC CANDIDATE SPEAKER SERIES
Come hear from the candidates, ask them questions,
enjoy the free food, and learn how you can get involved in 
one of the most important races in San Diego!For any additional questions,
please contact sovac@ucsd.eduWITH
FEB. 29MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
STUDENT SERVICES CENTER7:00 PMBARBARA BRY & RAY ELLISBARBARA BRY & RAY ELLISSan Diego City Council District 1 Candidates
Retrospective  Review:
“WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT?” (1988)
Setting the stage for Dr. Dog, Philly grunge/folk band Hop Along 
delivered an electric performance that was both unique and intimate.CONCERT   REVIEW
With everything from 
stylish hipsters to peculiar 
taquerias, North Park is one 
of the few night spots that is culturally 
diverse and artistically appealing. Right 
at the heart of it all stands a  high-
spirited music venue: The Observatory. 
As the crowd filled the vintage-
themed venue, an intimate, laid-back 
vibe instantly ignited as anticipation 
grew for the main event: Dr. Dog. 
Once the lights dimmed, opening 
act Hop Along entered the stage with 
untrimmed beards and baseball caps, 
band members presenting themselves 
in a way that truly captured their folk 
image and down-to-earth Philly roots.
Formerly known as Hop Along 
Queen Ansleis, the band started off as 
a indie solo project during lead singer 
Frances Quinlan’s senior year of high 
school. They gained recognition for 
Quinlan’s piercing vocals, something 
unfamiliar to listeners of Dr. Dog’s 
more calming tunes. Jumping 
straight into their guitar-heavy track 
“W aitress, ” she no doubt took the 
crowd by surprise with her raspy high 
pitched notes, failing to attract the 
crowd from the start. Quinlan swayed 
between soft croons and piercing notes 
but, with minimal audience interaction 
from the start, she only kept them 
somewhat engaged. Despite that, the 
band eventually displayed utmost zest 
in their grungy track “The Knock”; 
beneath Quinlan’s indistinguishable 
vocals, the distinct guitar and drum 
techniques influenced a wave of heads 
banging along to the beat. However, it was the more relaxed performances 
of “Horseshoe Crabs” and “Laments” 
that truly showcased an intricate folk 
tempo and finally attracted the crowd.
Although most couldn’t sing 
along to Quinlan’s unclear vocals, 
the listeners were able to sway along 
to the beat and get in touch with her 
true emotional performance. After 
what seemed like a good while, “Texas 
Funeral” saw audience interaction 
as Quinlan asked listeners to flip 
her off every time she sang the word 
“California. ” Soon enough, the 
audience lifted their middle fingers 
up with enthusiasm. “Kids on the 
Boardwalk” had Quinlan exaggerate 
her notes and rock her head along 
to every guitar stroke, movements 
that truly captured her lively attitude. 
Upbeat dance moves by guitarist Joe 
Reinhart”s and ardent drum taps by 
drummer Mark Quinlan intensified 
the high-spirited vibe as colorful stage 
lighting illuminated the stage.
The final performance of “Sister Cities” made a smooth transition 
from their grungy tone to Dr. 
Dog’s psychedelic mood. Quinlan’s 
eccentric persona and Hop Along’s 
instrumentation as a whole pumped 
up the audience for the main event. 
But, even after exiting the stage, the 
audience hadn’t seen the last of them. 
During Dr. Dog’s rendition of “Be 
The Void, ” drummer Quinlan snuck 
his way into the amazed audience 
and enthusiastically danced around 
and crowd surfed, a representation 
of the band’s unforgettable and 
carefree attitude. 
Alongside main performers Dr. 
Dog, Hop Along assisted in enhancing 
concert goers’ experience  with catchy 
and loud tunes, proving that even an 
opening act can leave fans reciting 
their tracks on the way home.
—   Melissa  p alafox
Staff WriterHop  along
at   The  observ a tor y  north  p ark
Concert Date  Feb. 20
PHOTO COURTESY OF GIRLIE ACTIONPa i n t i n g   w i t h
by   animal  collective
Release Date Feb. 19The psychedelic quartet (minus Deakin) unveils 
challenging sounds from their sonic toy chest.ALBUM   REVIEW
“No, Blanche, she’s upset 
because they keep 
changing the taste of 
coke. ” Of all the samples that were 
stuffed into Animal Collective’s 
“Painting With, ” this one, ripped from 
an episode of the ‘80s sitcom “The 
Golden Girls, ” stands out. It sums up 
the frustration and heartbreak that is 
the world’s collective reaction to the 
Collective’s latest. Can Geologist see 
into the future? Maybe. But let’s talk 
“Painting With” first.
It starts with “Floridada, ” a 
rollicking, tribal banger befitting A.C. ’s 
trusted seal of quality. And then, out 
of nowhere, “Painting With” pulls a 
fast one. Shifting tempo and intensity 
down a gear, the catchy hooks are 
replaced with synth-heavy textures 
and dueling vocals that cartwheel 
around each other. It’s exciting. 
Challenging. But this isn’t your dad’s 
Animal Collective.
Gone are the boundless, ethereal 
soundscapes of previous releases. After 
spending a decade making music in 
the stratosphere, the gang has fallen 
back to Earth to produce a sound of 
a tangible quality; compared to the 
infinity of outer space, this earthling 
album feels a little claustrophobic. 
But “Painting With” somehow offers a 
sense of auditory depth that stretches 
well beyond the confines of the planet. 
“Painting With” aims to layer as many 
textures and strokes of sugary paint 
as possible. The effect can be overly-sweet, even nauseating at. But beneath 
this candy-coated mess, the Collective 
has left hidden melodies waiting to be 
mined by keen ears.
In addition, the Collective’s vocal 
leads, Avey Tare and Panda Bear, 
harmonize without harmonizing, 
alternating singing on not just every 
word, but every syllable. The words 
bend and warp under this effect, 
and it’s hard to tell what’s being said. 
But when you catch bits and pieces, 
you’ll hear that trademark, childlike 
sense of awe.
The reaction “Painting With” 
has received from critics has been 
akin to that of an incoming meteor: 
the Animal Collective is finished; 
Pitchfork has found newer, younger 
darlings to dote on. But this isn’t 
the end: Now operating outside of 
what’s considered vogue, the Animal 
Collective can continue on their path.
Perhaps what’s sent critics into 
a panic is this: For once in the 
Collective’s anomalous history, the 
oft-proclaimed “inimitable” band 
borders on the imitable. “Painting 
With” is clean and calculated. It’s 
almost conventional. But for a 
band that has operated outside the 
lines of orthodoxy for so long, a 
jump into normalcy is a decidedly 
unconventional thing to do.
—   Josh  Lefler
Contributing Writer
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Fixie Bike - $250. Matte black and 
white fixie bike. Barely ridden. Comes 
with pump and bike lock. Listing ID: 
237287773 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
One Year Old Schwinn Bike - $100. Only 
rode three times. It is off road and 
street. Comes with helmet, carrying 
pouch and lock. Listing ID: 237287767 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
MGX Mongoose Mountain Bike - $200. 
Hard to find exact bike! Hand polished 
aluminum, new tires, dual suspension, 
extend rear end, rebuild gears. Don’t want to get rid of it but have to! Listing 
ID: 237287763 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Samsung Core Prime - $50. Smartphone. 
Samsung, Android, 8 GB. Camera on 
front and on the back. Nice images. 
Listing ID: 237903225 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
UE Mini Boom Bluetooth Speakers - 
$35. Barely used. Small but loud. 
Great Bluetooth speakers. Listing ID: 
237903224 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
80GB Black iPod - $85. In good condi -tion and easy to play music. Just need a 
charger cord and you’re ready to listen. 
Listing ID: 237903220 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Couch Sofa - $500. Moving out sale. 
Goose down couch and decorative pil -
lows. 7 ½ feet long. Washable cover. 
Listing ID: 237903261 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Beautiful High Top Table - $160. In ter -
rific condition! Comes with four match -
ing chairs. One chair is missing piece 
on bottom but still fully functional. Also 
comes with lazy Susan and has a built-
in sleeve to adjust table size. Listing ID: 
237903260 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Pop Up Work Table - $35. Light fold up 
work table. Sturdy and in great shape. 
Listing ID: 237903256 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
6+23 75,721 287),77(56
to.ucsd.edu
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
move up the leaderboard, ” Ragan said.
Day Two
UCSD finished the second day 
in seventh place, while Y ang was the 
top finisher for the Tritons and tied 
for eighth. The Tritons improved on 
their poor second round to shoot a 
295 in the final round and finished 
with a total of 892, 40 over par.
In addition, Yang shot a beautiful 
69 on Tuesday, two under par, to 
finish with 217 and jump six spots 
from his previous ranking. He had 37 pars, second most among all 
players, and recorded his second 
top-10 finish of the season. 
Yamag u ch i  t i e d  for  1 9 t h , 
shooting a 223 and totaling 37 pars 
as well, while Kucz finished 24th with 
(74–76–75—225, +12), followed by 
Roseth (72–83–77—232, +19) who 
came in 46th and Wermter (77–78–
81—236, +23) who placed 55th.
Sonoma State won the title with 
an 864 (+12), followed by Cal State 
East Bay (870, +18) and Cal State 
San Bernardino (871, +19).
Nelson maintained his lead and won the individual title, as he hit 
six-under with a 207; Hutchinson 
(209, -4) finished second while 
Sonoma State’s Nicolas Daniels was 
third with a 212 (-1).
The Tritons are off until March 
14 and 15 when they will compete at 
the San Diego Classic, hosted by San 
Diego State University at the San 
Diego Country Club in Chula Vista.
Readers can contact
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu    offense exploded. 
Redshirt junior outfielder Brandon 
Shirley hit a triple with the bases 
loaded, breaking the tie and giving the 
Tritons a 5–2 lead, scoring from third 
on a base hit up the middle by Flatt. 
In the end the Tritons won 6–2 
and took the four-game series against 
Concordia 3–1. 
“I like where we’re at, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Eric Newman told UCSD 
Athletics. “We might not be perfect. 
We have our flaws, but we’re growing 
and getting better. We continue to look forward to playing better 
baseball as we continue to grow. ”
UCSD will face off with CCAA 
opponent Cal State San Bernardino 
on Friday, Feb. 26 at home in Triton 
Ballpark. First pitch is set for 6 p.m. The 
Tritons will then travel to Cal State San 
Bernardino’s home field on Saturday 
as they play a doubleheader starting at 
11 a.m. UCSD will head back to Triton 
Ballpark for the series finale on Sunday. 
First pitch is set for 1 p.m. 
Edwards (5–1) added one more win to 
her record for the season while striking 
out two and only allowing two hits. 
Game Two
Once again, pulling through in 
the latter innings, UCSD displayed 
its strong play, enabling itself to 
capture a 11–5 victory.
The Tritons got to a wonderful 
start in the second inning to grab 
hold of a 3–0 lead. Senior shortstop 
McKenna Clewett laid down a bunt 
to bring one home and, moments 
later, sophomore-designated player 
Emily Sklencar scored after a passed 
ball. Baker also participated in 
the feat by hitting an RBI single to 
finally bring in Clewett.
The Toros quickly drew level in 
the bottom of the inning with three 
runs of their own. After the Tritons 
went scoreless during the third 
inning, Cal State Dominguez Hills 
took advantage and hit a solo home 
run to gain a 4–3 lead. After a double from Clewett in 
the fourth inning to bring in a run 
and tie up the game once more, the 
Tritons were able to take control in 
the later innings.  A Lewis two-RBI 
triple in the fifth and a Clewett three 
run home run, following an error to 
allow a run, gave UCSD a 10–4 lead 
in the sixth.  
In the bottom of the sixth, the 
Toros were awarded for their efforts 
with a run after being walked with 
the bases loaded, but the one run 
was the end of the opportunity as 
they struck out against Edwards.
The Tritons scored one last run in 
the seventh to make the game a fantasy 
for Cal State Dominguez Hills.
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Lauren Brown (6–0) earned 
the victory with a six strikeout 
performance while Edwards earned 
the save with three strikeouts in 1.1 
innings of work.   
Game Three
The first of two games on 
Saturday ended in a 5–6 defeat for the Tritons in a highly competitive 
eighth-inning ball game.
UCSD found itself leading 3–0 
after the first inning thanks to a 
Schneider RBI single and a Lewis 
two-RBI double. While the Tritons 
added a tally to the score in the 
fourth through a Clewett RBI single, 
Dominguez Hills was able to cut the 
lead in half after a two run homer in 
the bottom of the inning. 
Sophomore outfielder Kelsi 
Maday recovered one run in the 
back of the fifth with a solo home 
run. However, the Toros climbed 
back into the game with three more 
runs in the bottom of the inning to 
tie it up at 5–5.  
The game remained deadlocked 
until in the bottom of the eighth 
inning, when Cal State Dominguez 
Hills’ junior catcher and third base 
Jazmyne Cortinas doubled and, 
moments later, scored the winning 
run off a fielding mishap by Baker.  
“Unfortunately, in the first 
game our defense was not as strong as usual and we made some key 
mistakes, ” UCSD Head Coach Patti 
Gerckens told the UCSD Athletics 
Department.
The evening ended sadly for 
Brown (6–1), who earned her first 
collegiate loss as she pitched in relief 
for 3.2 innings.
Game Four
UCSD made amends after its 
loss during the final game with a 
convincing 7–1 win to clinch the 
four-game series.  
The Tritons gained a 1–0 lead in 
the first inning as Maday contributed 
with the a solo homer, but Cal State 
Dominguez Hills had no problem 
leveling the score 1–1 in the bottom 
of the inning as junior first base 
Analisa Nicholson hit an RBI single.
The second inning proved to be 
decisive as the Tritons scored four 
runs due to two costly errors from 
the Toros. A throwing error gave 
Schneider the opportunity to safely 
get on base and, subsequently, score 
following a second errant throw. In addition, Sklencar managed to score 
on a fielder’s choice while Maday hit 
a two-RBI single. 
UCSD then scored two more 
runs to ensure a victory, one each 
in the fourth and sixth innings. In 
the fourth, Schneider hit an RBI 
double and in the sixth Maday hit 
her second homerun of the game.
“I was proud of how we bounced 
back after the loss to win the series, ” 
Gerckens said to UCSD Athletics. 
“Dominguez Hills is a tough 
opponent and will definitely win a 
lot of games this year. ”
Junior left-hander Milana 
Casillas (1–0) was handed her first 
start and made no mistakes about 
it, in earning the win during the 4.2 
innings she pitched. 
UCSD is s t to play host to a four-
game series against CCAA rivals 
Chico State, beginning with the first 
game on Friday, Feb. 26 at 1 p.m.Readers can contact
samantha glantz   
Readers can contact
Daniel Hernandez        Tritons Begin CCAA Play on Saturday Next T ournament is in Three Weeks Against San Diego State
Milana Casillas Earns Win in First Start, Giving Up Only One Run in the Four Innings that She Pitched▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12 ▶ GOLF,  from page 12
▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UCSD baseball played a four-game, nonconference series against 
Concordia Irvine. Although the Tritons dropped the first game, 
they won the series 3–1 and are now 10–2 overall heading into the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association play.
Game One
Redshirt senior right-handed pitcher Alon Leichman was nearly untouchable, 
but the Tritons’ offense couldn’t push a run across in the first game of the four-
game series against the Concordia Irvine Eagles. The Tritons lost 5–0 through 
seven innings despite Leichman’s two-hitter. 
Leichman threw a perfect game against the Eagles Friday night for five innings 
until he broke up his own perfect game; he hit Concordia’s freshman infielder 
Michael Nava, giving him a free pass to first base. A base-hit bunt in the sixth 
inning proved the nail in the coffin for Leichman’s no-hitter, though he gave 
up only two hits on the night. Nonetheless, he had a career-high six strikeouts 
during game one of the series. Leichman was replaced by freshman right-handed 
pitcher Jonah Dipoto on the mound in the top of the eighth. Dipoto was credited 
with the game loss, as he was charged for all five of the Eagles runs. Still, redshirt 
sophomore outfielder and first baseman Justin Flatt, junior outfielder Jack Larsen 
and senior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez each managed two hits on the night. 
Game Two
Freshman left-handed pitcher Brent Bell, freshman right-handed pitcher and 
infielder Tim Nelson and freshman right-handed pitcher Kyle Mora combined 
forces to hold the Eagles to three hits and two runs for the second game of the 
series. Both of Concordia’s runs were scored in the fifth and credited to the Tritons’ 
starting pitcher Bell. 
The Tritons scored at least one run in five out of the eight innings they got 
up to bat; Sanchez, Flatt, Larsen, junior outfielder Christian Leung, freshman 
first baseman Tyler Durna and junior infielder Tyler Howsley supplied all of the 
Tritons’ hits for the game as they all had two hits apiece.
It was a close ball game, 3–2, with the Tritons leading by one run until the 
sixth inning. UCSD’s offense ignited as Howsley and Sanchez hit back-to-back 
singles with one out, putting runners on first and second for clean-up hitter Flatt. 
Flatt hit a base-clearing triple down the right field line, scoring two more runs for 
the Tritons, then stole home on a wild pitch with two outs before junior infielder 
Vince Mori flew out to right field, ending the inning. 
The score was 6–2 in the Tritons’ favor heading into the bottom of the eighth 
inning, and Sanchez did not hesitate to pounce on an error made by the Eagles to 
take first base. He advanced to second on a failed pickoff attempt by the pitcher 
and then moved over to third on a ground ball by Flatt. Meanwhile, Larsen tripled 
down the right field line, giving Tritons an insurance run. 
The final score was 7–2, resulting in a victory for the Tritons.
Game Three
Freshman right-handed pitcher Kyle Lucke secured another win for the 
Tritons in the third game of the four-game series against Concordia with a final 
score of 3–2 in the Tritons’ favor. 
Lucke went on for five innings as he gave up five hits and both Eagles runs. 
Redshirt freshman right-handed pitcher Cameron Kurz then came in for the final 
two innings of the game and shut down the Eagles, giving up zero hits.  
The Eagles came out swinging in the top of the first game, as they strung 
together some hits and scored two runs early on. Sanchez singled to leadoff the 
game for the Tritons as Larsen hit to right center and scored one out. With two 
outs already made, a wild pitch scored the Tritons’ first run of game; the Eagles 
failed to score during the same time period. Redshirt sophomore catcher Steven Coe led off the bottom of the second 
with a triple. Howsley followed Coe with a textbook ground ball to the second 
baseman, allowing Coe to score easily on the play. With the score tied up at 2–2, 
the Eagles failed to push a run across in the top of the third. 
After Larsen, Mori and Leung all got on base, Coe came up clutch as he 
worked a 3–2 count and got rewarded with a bases-loaded walk, giving the 
Tritons the lead. 
UCSD didn’t allow the Eagles to score for the rest of the game, clinching the 
win with a final score of 3–2. 
Game Four
Freshman left-handed pitcher Preston Mott took the start for the Tritons in the 
final game of the series. The Eagles took advantage of three defensive errors by the 
Tritons, as they scored two unearned runs early in the game. However, sophomore 
righthanded pitcher Jack Rupe came in to relieve Mott in the middle of the third 
inning. Rupe threw five shutout innings as he gave up two hits and a walk, tying 
his career high with three strikeouts. 
With the game tied a 2–2 headed into the bottom of the seventh, the Tritons’ 12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Tritons Take Three From Concordia 
Written by Samantha Glantz // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee 
week  in
summar y
GOLF
UCSD
Coyote Classic7th out of 12
BASEBALLSOFTBALL
5 2 2 21  5 6 1
0 7 3 65 11 5 7
CSU Dominguez HIllsConcordia Irvine
UCSDUCSD
Last week, the UCSD softball team 
traveled up north to Carson, Calif. 
to face Cal State Dominguez Hills in 
two doubleheaders played on Friday 
and Saturday. UCSD won the four-
game series 3–1, with the unfortunate 
loss coming on Saturday in a down-
to-the-wire ball game. The Tritons 
currently stand 13–3 overall and 7–1 
in conference play in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Game One
While the game was close for 
the majority of the time, the Tritons 
pushed through and prevailed late on 
to win the matchup 5–1.
UCSD fell behind 1–0 in the first 
inning due to an error, consequently 
allowing the Toros to steal third and 
reach home. In response, sophomore 
catcher Lauren Sanders hit the ball 
in the direction of the pitcher who 
struggled to field the ball, giving the 
opportunity to sophomore second base 
Kendall Baker to run in from third and 
level the score 1–1 for the Tritons.  
The score remained constant throughout two more innings, until the 
top of the sixth when the Tritons put 
up a strong showing and scored four 
runs to take a commanding lead into 
the last portion of the game. Senior 
catcher and first base Emma Schneider 
contributed with a two-RBI single in 
a bases loaded situation; freshman 
shortstop and first base Maddy Lewis followed it with a double to center to 
bring in another run.
As such, the Toros had no 
response and fell short at home after 
keeping it close for the long duration 
of the ball game.
Senior left-handed pitcher Lexi SOFTBALL GOLF
UCSD Nearly Sweeps Dominguez Hills Tritons End Up Seventh 
Tritons improve conference record to 7-1, look forward to rival Chico State next. UCSD starts season with an up and down showing.
BY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
staff writerUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Water Polo
Softball
Baseball
W.Basketball
M.Basketball2/27
2/27
2/27
2/27
2/27AT Irvine
VS Chico State
AT Cal State San Bernardino
VS Sonoma State 
VS Sonoma State
UCSD men’s golf opened its 
season this past Monday and 
Tuesday at the Coyote Classic 
hosted by Cal State San Bernardino. 
The Tritons placed seventh out of 12, 
hitting 597 (+29) over 36 holes in 
two rounds. They shot a convincing 
294 in the first round, good for 
fourth, but dropped to seventh after 
hitting a 303 in the second round.
Day One
UCSD was led by seniors Daniel 
Y ang and Clayton Y amaguchi. Y ang 
ended the first day in a tie for 14th, 
hitting 148 (+6) as the top Triton 
while Y ang maintained consistency 
throughout the day, hitting 74 in both 
rounds. Yamaguchi tied for 20th after 
the opening two rounds, shooting 
74 in the first round and 75 in the 
second as sophomore Mateusz Kucz 
also managed to place in the top 25 by 
shooting a 74 and a 76. 
“ As a team, we played well for 
about 30 holes today, ” UCSD Head Coach Jim Ragan told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “We were 
very competitive in round one and 
continued our strong play well into the 
second, but we finished very poorly. ”
Rounding up the scorers for UCSD, 
senior Jeff Roseth (72–83—155, +13) 
and freshman Joel Wermter (77–78—
155, +13) tied for 44th.
Cal State East Bay held the lead after 
one day with a 579 (299-280), 11 over 
par and just a mere two strokes ahead 
of Sonoma State (287–294—581). Cal 
State San Bernardino and Dixie State 
were tied for third, both hitting 586 
on the day; they and Sonoma State 
are all receiving votes in the Bushnell 
Golfweek Division II Coaches Poll.
Dane Nelson from Dixie State 
was first after the two first rounds, 
shooting a five-under 137 in front of 
Northeastern State’s Tate Williamson 
(70–69—139) and Owen Hutchinson 
(75–65—140) of Cal State East Bay.
“We have to get off to a good start 
tomorrow and maintain momentum to BY   M a r c u s   t h u i l l i e r
sports editorSee BASEBALL , page 11
See SOFT BALL , page 11
See GOLF , page 11 PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN