VOLUME 49, ISSUE 58   THURSDA Y , MA Y 26, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
IS THERE LIFE
POST GRAD?
CONGRATULATIONS, SENIORS! 
AS THE WORLD WELCOMES YOU 
WITH CORPORATE PRESSURE 
AND OVERWHELMING 
SENTIMENT OF THE UNKNOWN, 
THE GUARDIAN IS HERE TO 
HELP EASE SOME FEARS AND 
TELL STORIES OF THOSE WHO 
SURVIVED GRADUATION
ERADICA TION   OF   ARTS
BASEBALL  ENDS  IN  CCAACLOSURE  OF  ART  GALLER Y
Historic  sea son  for w a ter poloOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  11
THURSDAY  
H 69 L 58FRIDAY  
H 69 L 58
SATURDAY
H 70 L 58SUNDAY  
H 71 L 59
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WHA T MAKES SOCIAL MOVEMENTS 
A FORCE TO BE RECKONED 
WITH ARE THE ALLIANCES 
THAT BUILD THE FOUNDATION 
FOR CHANGE. EQUITY MOVES 
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES 
NEED STUDENTS WHO SEE 
THAT EQUITY AND INCLUSION 
BENEFIT ALL STUDENTS AND 
REQUIRE EVERYONE’S ACTION.”
- Makeba Jones
MAKEBA’S CORNER
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCI-TECH  ........................ 2
STRATEGIC  FUNDING  ....3
THE NICE GUYS  ............... 9
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
W. WATERPOLO  ............. 11“SECTION,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD 
STUDENT RESEARCH INFORMATION
Students for the Exploration and 
Development of Space at UCSD 
became the first undergraduate 
team in the world to successfully fire 
a rocket powered by a 3-D-printed 
engine on May 21. The 19-foot-
tall rocket, called Vulcan-I, reached 
an altitude of nearly 10,000 feet 
during the launch at the Friends 
of Amateur Rocketry site in the 
Mojave Desert. 
UCSD SEDS designed, 
developed and tested the 
technology for Vulcan-I over a span 
of about two years. The missile 
was damaged while landing due 
to poor weather conditions and a 
parachute malfunction. However, 
team member Rohit Ghosh still 
considers the day a success.“We’re ecstatic by what we were 
able to do,” said Ghosh, who is 
responsible for the team’s ignition 
sequencing. “We worked so hard 
on this — it was like a job. And the 
engine survived intact when it came 
back down. ”
Sixth College sophomore Darren 
Charrier, who is the organization’s 
incoming president, also expressed 
pride in the team’s ability and 
determination to fulfill its objective.
“We set out to be the first 
students in the world to launch a 
rocket powered by a 3-D-printed 
engine, and we met that goal this 
weekend, ” Charrier told the UCSD 
Guardian. “It was very rewarding to 
see all our work come together and 
blast off into the Mojave Desert sky. ”
Charrier added that his 
organization’s success is proof of 
concept that professional aerospace companies can implement this 
technology in their own rockets.
“If students at the undergraduate 
level could drive down the costs of 
building these engines, we could 
actually fly rockets and send up 
payload that is cheaper and more 
efficient, ” Charrier said.
The student organization raised 
over $22,000 for the Vulcan-I project 
through a Kickstarter campaign 
last spring and received support 
from sponsors such as NASA, 
Lockheed Martin and Qualcomm. 
The team’s other projects include a 
static fire system for testing rocket 
engines called Colossus and a semi-
autonomous cube satellite for deep 
space exploration called Triteia.Freshmen 
No Longer 
Allowed to 
Buy PermitsPARKING
The announcement came 
with additional plans for new 
parking structures and an 
increase in parking costs.
BY   B E C CA  C H O N G
Last Thursday UCSD 
Transportation Services announced 
a new policy to restrict freshmen 
from purchasing parking permits 
starting in the 2016–2017 school 
year. Along with this policy change 
come plans to build several new 
parking lots, to increase paystation 
hourly rates and to incentivize 
the use of public transportation. 
These changes come during a time 
when student enrollment rates are 
increasing and on-campus housing 
will be expanded to accommodate 
the growing UCSD community.
The policy is meant to encourage 
freshmen who live on campus 
to consider other options for 
transportation to reduce the amount 
of parking spaces that are simply 
used as storage. Transportation 
services emphasized how housing 
situations will be considered 
when granting exceptions to the 
freshman-year permit ban, but 
encouraged students to look into 
alternative commute options. 
“Exceptions to the new policy 
will be provided on a case-by-case 
basis and determined by a committee 
of students and staff, ” according 
to Transportation Services. “We 
encourage all students to use the 
Triton U-Pass whenever possible. If 
you live close to campus, U-Pass will 
enable you to ride MTS or NCTD 
transit to campus easily. Even those 
who live further away are encouraged 
to find commute solutions — use 
free, local transit hub parking and 
ride transit to campus via your 
U-Pass whenever possible. ” 
Sixth College transfer Nicholas 
Warner described his negative 
experience and pointed out the lack 
of useful resources to remedy the 
situation. He believes that the policy to 
restrict freshmen from buying parking 
permits is a temporary solution that 
glosses over the deeper issues.
“Restricting first-year permits 
will open up some new student 
spots,” Warner told the UCSD 
Guardian. “This is a band-aid for 
the symptoms of over-enrollment 
which cascades into several other 
issues [such as] ridiculous faculty 
to student ratios, and devaluing the 
UCSD brand … it’s a short-sighted 
attempt at prolonging the results of 
a critical issue the administration is 
willfully trying to be ignorant of. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore Jasmine Sabei and the 
incoming director of Transportation Students Approve Move to 
Division-I Athletics
Students voted to increase the Intercollegiate Athletics 
activity fee today, which puts UCSD on the path toward 
becoming an NCAA Division-I university. The A.S. 
Elections Committee announced the results of the special 
referendum this afternoon at Round Table Pizza.
According to the polls, approximately 35 percent 
of the student body voted on the referendum. Of the 
8,828 students who participated, 6,137 voted in favor 
of moving to Division I, while 2,567 voted against the 
fee increase.
UCSD Athletic Director Earl Edwards described 
the switch as a chance to bolster school spirit for the 
entire UCSD community, including students, alumni 
and the public.
“This is an opportunity for us to help improve the 
student experience on campus, particularly from a pride 
and unification perspective, ” Edwards told the UCSD 
Guardian. “It will allow alumni the opportunity to be 
more engaged [and] help us increase our connection to 
the community. ”
Representatives from the No on D1 campaign issued a response to the Guardian stating that they only hope the 
benefits of this referendum outweigh its cost to students.
“Though we are deeply opposed to the use of student 
fees to fund a move to Division I, we hope that the 
athletics department will use the funds raised by the 
ICA referendum in good faith to benefit students and 
UCSD in general as promised, and to improve UCSD 
standing in the outside world, ” representatives said.
Following approval from the student body, Edwards 
explained that further steps are necessary in order for 
UCSD to acquire Division-I status. These measures 
include receiving an invitation to join the Big West 
Conference, as well as faculty approval.
A.S. Elections Manager Claire Maniti clarified that 
although faculty can reject the students’ vote, Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla ultimately determines whether or not 
the transition process moves forward. Citing student 
support, Maniti finds it unlikely that the chancellor 
would turn down the favored referendum.
Over the course of the next three years, students will 
see their ICA activity fees — which are currently $129.38 B y  kevin  santos      CAMPUS
Students Launch Rocket with 3D-printed Engine
During testing, the rocket reached an altitude of 10,000 feet but was damaged during landing.See DIVISION-I , page 3
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
By  k r i t i  sa r i nPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
See PARKING , page 3kriti sarin   See More2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
Enter promo code ASUCSD16  into the Uber app
to unlock 1 free ride for up to $10* (restrictions apply). 
 
*You must have a ucsd.edu email  address
linked to your Uber account.GET $10 OFF YOUR NEXT RIDE
For more info contact A.S. Safe rides at (619) 564-7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. “Olga’s crying. Please help” — Q to V 
on Venmo circa Apr. 1.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh  Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
News Editors
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper, Jacky To
Vanessa Wong, Aleya Zenieris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Lauren Holt, Tia Ikemoto, Maria 
Sebas, Nathan Walker, Matt Zamudio“Flyception:” UCSD Researchers to Monitor Fruit Fly Brains
Studying the neural activity of fruit flies could provide provide insight into the cognitive functions of mammals, including humans.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Researchers at the Kavli Institute 
for Brain and Mind at UCSD 
have developed a brain imaging 
technique to monitor fruit fly neural 
activity “untethered, ” the results of 
which were published on May 16 by 
Nature Methods. “Fly Perception, ” 
or “Flyception, ” is the name of the 
imaging system that allows scientists 
to observe brain activity of flies 
without significantly restraining or 
sedating them. 
The first procedure in Flyception 
is to replace the exoskeleton from the 
top of the fly head with a transparent 
silicone adhesive. This procedure 
effectively creates an imaging window 
with access to the upper half of the 
fly brain, or the protocerebrum. 
Co-author and Assistant Project 
Scientist Dhruv Grover described the 
region as being important to higher-
cognitive functions.
“The protocerebrum is the largest 
structure in the fly brain, excluding the 
distinct optic lobes on the two sides, ” Grover told the UCSD Guardian. “It 
includes many structures relevant 
for higher-cognitive functions in 
flies, such as learning, memory, 
motor control, navigation, courtship, 
aggression [and others]”
Co-author and Assistant Project 
Scientist Takeo Katsuki added that 
the protocerebrum was the most 
accessible region to test the system.
“The protocerebrum is the easiest 
part to look at with surgery, ” Katsuki 
told the Guardian. “You could look 
at wider brain regions if you remove 
the cuticle from the back side of the 
head, but we wanted to demonstrate 
that the approach is feasible. ”
The second procedure in 
Flyception involves developing 
a program to track the fly as it 
walks around the arena. The system 
includes rotating mirrors that keep 
the fly positioned at the center of 
two cameras while a laser beam 
excites fluorescent, genetically-
encoded calcium indicator proteins. 
A third camera captures the emitted 
fluorescent signals and records it at 
1,000 frames per second. Katsuki describes calcium to be an effective 
indicator of neural activity in vivo.
“Many, if not all neurons use 
calcium as a secondary messenger 
so when neurons are active, calcium 
ions are released in the cell and this 
calcium indicator reports, basically, 
neuronal activities, ” Katuski said. 
“In the cases where neurons don’t 
show action potentials, we can 
directly monitor voltage change or 
electrical activity itself. ”
Katsuki said that traditional 
imaging techniques severely restrict 
fruit fly movements, which led to 
the inception of Flyception.
“The problem of conventional 
imaging paradigms was that you 
needed to immobilize the fruit 
fly, which prevents them from 
behaving naturally, ” Katsuki told the 
Guardian.  “We wanted to solve the 
problem by developing this system 
that allows us to image brain activity 
in freely walking fruit flies. ”
Grover pointed out that due 
to their similarities, studying fly 
brains could reveal insights about 
cognitive functions in mammals, including humans.
“Even though anatomically, 
insect and mammalian brains are 
different, there are deep parallels in 
functioning organization, ” Grover 
said. “The architecture and logic 
of how information is processed 
by flies, whether it’s olfactory or 
visual information or even higher 
cognitive functions, is very similar. 
This, in turn, gives us clues on how 
these similar behaviors are executed 
by us humans. ”
Katsuki concluded that 
Flyception is only in its infancy 
and there are still issues with the 
system’s resolution to be addressed.
“Our ultimate goal is to 
look at the entire brain without 
restraining the fly, but for that we 
need additional imaging or optics 
system, ” Katsuki said. “The feature 
we’ d like to implement next is higher 
resolution, because it would allow 
us to distinguish neural activity 
from individual neurons in real time 
while they’re behaving naturally. ”BY   m i n g - r a y  l i a o
Ming-Ra y  Liao   
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGJustice for the Student Sustainability 
Collective, described how the issues 
of housing and transportation are 
intertwined.
“UCSD is continuing their 
increase in student admissions 
without compensating for housing, 
so more and more first years will 
be living off-campus, ” Sabei told the 
Guardian. “This is a problem for 
commuters since the buses (201 and 
202, especially) are already packed 
as it is … UCSD needs to improve 
their relationship with MTS in order 
to discuss ways to meet the needs 
of the increasing student commuter population. Each student … is 
already being charged more than 
$50 per year for bus transportation, 
and [with] the amount of money 
MTS is [making a profit off of], 
they should be able to afford to run 
more buses. ”
Warner also felt that the added 
parking structures may cause more 
problems if the university does not 
consider more construction projects 
to offset the potential side effects of 
added parking.
“A d d i t i o n a l  p a r k i n g  s t r u c t u r e s  
on campus will absolutely add to 
traffic congestion around UCSD and 
on campus, ” Warner said. “UCSD 
needs to also consider adding additional exits from campus or 
better-managing their current intra-
campus transit system. ”
The second policy change will 
increase Paystation rates from $1 per 
hour to $2 per hour. Transportation 
services gave two reasons for the 
change.
“One, we want to create 
consistency across campus by 
just having one standard visitor 
rate, ” Transportation services told 
the Guardian. “ And two, we want 
visitors to use only the time they 
need rather than parking all day. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
per quarter — rise to $189.38 per 
quarter in the 2017-2018 academic 
year, to $244.38 per quarter the 
following year and to $289.38 per 
quarter the year after.
The money will go towards 
meeting requirements for financial 
support, coaches’ salaries, grant-in-aid 
funds and other costs associated with 
Division I, allowing UCSD athletic 
teams  to compete in the highest level 
of intercollegiate athletics.
Earl Warren College junior 
Luke Wang cautioned students not 
to expect the projected benefits of 
becoming a Division-I campus to 
materialize any time soon.
“I think it’s important for 
students to know that we do not 
automatically enter [Division I] and 
it will not automatically fulfill the 
promises made or proposed during 
the campaign period, ” Wang told the Guardian. “It’s not going to instantly 
boost our brand recognition among 
all the universities [and] definitely 
not within the next five years. ”
Edwards told the Guardian that 
he views the success of the Division-I 
campaign as an indicator of what 
students believe will improve the 
UCSD experience.
“To have students make an 
overwhelming statement in favor 
[of Division I] tells us that this 
is something that they believe 
is not only best for the athletics 
department, but the university as a 
whole, ” Edwards said.
Wang understands, however, 
that the support from the student 
population suggests that students 
are willing to make short-term 
concessions for long-term gains.
“This election just means that 
students are okay with a drastic fee 
increase, and [that] we have to get 
that invitation for things to actually happen, maybe in a year or two, ” 
Wang said.
Muir College junior and student 
athlete Alec Petty said that he is 
excited about the possibility of being 
able to compete against schools with 
well-established athletic programs. 
“I look forward to competing 
against school like UC Santa 
Barbara, UC Irvine, UC Berkeley, 
Stanford and UCLA, ” Petty told the 
Guardian. “Twenty years from now 
I’ll get to come back as an alumni 
and watch my team beat the Bears. ”
In addition, Petty applauded 
his fellow teammates and other 
supporters for their Division-I 
campaign efforts.
“Students came together and 
made something happen that has 
been a dream for a lot of people at 
UCSD for decades, ” Petty said. “It 
made me proud to be a Triton. ”
Sabei: Increases in Enrollment are Outpacing Housing and Parking
▶ PARKING,  from page 1▶ DIVISION-I,  from page 1University to Use ICA Fee Increase for Coach Salaries and Scholarships
becca chong   kevin santos   We now stream 
UCSD’s A.S. Council 
meeting live every 
Wednesday night 
at 6 p.m on the 
“UCSD Guardian” 
YouTube channel.G-SPAN
A.S.COUNCIL 
LIVE!4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
As an education professor, I focus 
on educational equity and education 
reform, particularly for students who 
have been historically under-served 
by the public school system. Social 
scientists have long documented 
the educational injustices served to 
generations of low-income students 
and students of color. Inequality is 
systemic, meaning deficit-oriented, 
prejudiced and stereotypical beliefs 
held by education leaders influence 
decisions about policies and practices 
aimed at under-serving students. 
These practices become routine, 
regularly depriving underrepresented, 
minority students from their right to 
a high-quality education.
Organizations play a vital role 
in education reform because they 
can apply pressure from outside 
of the system to change damaging 
policies and practices. On-campus 
organizations run by education 
researchers, educators and outreach 
specialists such as CREATE and 
EAOP develop programs that increase 
access to academic opportunities and 
to college information. What makes 
this work significant are the alliances 
formed between UCSD organizations 
and school districts and communities. 
But equity work needs the voices of 
students too. College students have an 
equally vital role to play by merging 
their individual voices into a strong 
collective in order to continue the 
equity work started in K-12 schools. 
In my courses I spotlight 
students’ voices in order to 
understand educational equity. 
For one course I assign students 
the task of investigating a UCSD 
student organization to understand 
how student organizations support 
students’ college experience. Many 
students choose to investigate an 
organization that is unfamiliar to 
them, whether it’s one that focuses 
on particular ethnic groups, religious 
views or common interests like 
promoting community service.
The most important outcome of 
this assignment, for me, is that my 
students discover that although there 
are many different organizations on 
campus, they all try to provide UCSD 
students with a safe space to feel 
at home and to feel connected to a 
community that helps them deal with 
challenges they face in college. Student 
organizations serve an equity purpose 
by providing students with access 
to resources and support otherwise 
unavailable to them. However, in 
light of recent hateful events targeting 
immigrants and Mexican students 
at UCSD (and the preceding hateful 
events surrounding the “Compton 
Cookout”), it is clear that UCSD 
student voices are vital in extending 
K-12 equity work to college campuses.
Students’ experiences on campus 
should influence larger conversations 
about equity moves needed at UCSD 
to create an equity-oriented and 
inclusive environment. However, 
individual student groups can’t 
shoulder the burden. Uniting the 
voices of various student groups 
creates a solid foundation for pressing 
reform on campus. I encourage 
student organizations to form 
alliances aimed at working with 
campus leadership to change the 
culture of UCSD. Students sparking 
change has a history in social 
movements around the world. But 
what makes social movements a force 
to be reckoned with are the alliances 
that build the foundation for change. 
Equity moves on college campuses 
need students who see that equity 
and inclusion benefit all students and 
require everyone’s action.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nate Walker
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 Lauren Holt
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. The Power 
of  Alliance
MAKEBA JONES
m3jones@ucsd.eduMakeba's   
CORNER
UCSD administration recently 
announced it would continue its 
ambitious plan to raise over $2 
billion in private donations over 
the next 10 years, despite setbacks 
and uncertainty surrounding the 
program. Progress toward achieving 
this goal, a substantial sum compared 
to our current endowment of $529 
million according to annual UCSD 
Endowment Reports, is particularly 
vital, given that the state of California 
has largely withdrawn from financially 
supporting this campus, with per-
student expenditures dropping by 
32.74 percent since 2001. However, 
the campaign is in danger of being 
delayed far longer than it should be; 
Steve Gamer, who had previously 
headed it, resigned last month for 
unspecified reasons, prompting 
Chancellor Khosla to postpone the 
launch of the campaign for another 
year. In order to near this funding 
goal, the university needs to improve 
relations with alumni and foster a 
sense of community to ensure that 
future graduates become donors.
Some of Khosla’s methods for 
raising money have rightly come 
under scrutiny for inappropriately 
commercializing campus facilities, 
the most blatant of which is an open 
offer to name the medical school for 
$250 million. If UCSD were a private 
university these practices would be 
more acceptable, but what message 
are we sending if a public university, 
made for the common good of the 
people of California, can sell its 
property’s name to corporations? 
It is clear that UCSD needs to improve its fundraising game, 
but privatization should be off the 
table. Instead, the university should 
focus on its profile with alumni. 
Compared to other UCs, UCSD’s 
private donations are far smaller: In 
the past year UC Davis received $215 
million in private donations while 
UC Berkeley received $325 million. 
In comparison, UCSD only received 
$54 million according to the campus 
operating budget. However, the 
reason for this shortcoming isn’t that 
UCSD graduates earn less than their 
counterparts at other universities. 
According to payscale.com, UCSD 
graduates have higher mid-career 
salaries than UC Davis graduates on 
average — however, they do not feel 
compelled to donate their alma mater. 
The question is, why?
The most obvious answer is that 
our university does not put nearly 
as much effort into connecting to 
alumni as other universities. UCLA, 
for example, provides the James 
West Alumni Building, consisting 
of conference rooms dedicated to 
connecting alumni to the campus; 
UCLA ’s website boasts that its facilities 
offer meeting places for anything 
from conferences to celebrations, all 
at reasonable prices. Another luxury 
afforded to UCLA alumni is the 
UCLA Lake Arrowhead Conference 
Center which offers chalet-style 
cabins with two bedrooms, decked 
with lake views and wood-burning 
fireplaces. Currently, UCSD does 
not offer anything that can equal 
these amenities. The UCSD Alumni 
Association hosts a program called the Alumni Advisor Network, an 
online platform that allows current 
students to get remote mentorship 
by alumni. However, these programs 
are underutilized by the UCSD 
population. This isn’t necessarily 
the Alumni Association’s fault, but 
it doesn’t bode well for any possible 
donations to the school. With the 
university offering so little to its 
alumni, it is no wonder that they don’t 
feel obligated to give back. 
Although it has not been directly 
proven, moving to Division-I 
athletics has the possibility of raising 
alumni donations. UC Davis and UC 
Berkeley, both Division-I schools, 
raise far more money than UCSD in 
private donations. While it is hard to 
draw conclusions between UCSD and 
these schools, which have had years 
to cultivate their athletic alumni base, 
the Division-I vote is at least a step 
toward valuing campus unity. 
But D-1 is not the sole solution. 
Plans to build Gateway — a grand 
entrance to the school in the style 
of Bruin W alk — are currently 
underway, a move that will give 
our university a more recognizable 
image. Although we have succeeded 
in becoming a top research university 
and building relationships with large 
companies, we need to cultivate our 
sense of campus community to give 
future alumni a sense of loyalty. In 
doing so, and preserving campus 
traditions like Sun God, UCSD can 
begin to expect the support from 
our alumni necessary to achieve the 
ambitious goals set forth by Khosla 
and administration.Improvement of  Alumni Relations and Campus Unity Vital to Increase Funding
AGE  OF  
ARTLESSNESS
The University Art Gallery is finally closed. We say that not with relief, 
but with fatigue. Fatigue built up from the university’s relentless and often 
successful attack on non-profitable student spaces — the Crafts Center, 
graffiti hall and the C.H.E. Cafe. The wariness felt by the student artists 
and visual arts faculty who fight relentlessly to ensure their discipline 
remains alive at UCSD is too large a burden for any single department to 
carry. But moreover, this burden should be shared and owned by the whole 
student body, which will be worse off when the university fully becomes a 
homogenous vacuum in which creativity withers and corporatism thrives. 
With so few student spaces left standing, we have reached what is absolutely 
a critical point and potentially a final opportunity in this effort. It is more 
urgent now than ever to demonstrate the need for valuing arts through 
definitive and collective action. 
The storm of events leading up to this moment have been wildly 
complicated. The UAG’s well-being first came into question almost exactly 
one year ago when university officials announced that the gallery would 
be put on hold indefinitely, which meant the release of its paid faculty. 
Many thought they would never see the space open again. However, 
after months of discussions and negotiations, university officials at last 
approved a proposal to open the gallery back up, at least temporarily, for 
an undergraduate art show titled “Meeting at Square One, ” generating an 
overall optimism in the gallery’s future availability. Chair of the visual arts 
department Jack Greenstein even told the UCSD Guardian that he was 
beginning to schedule what would be next year’s shows. That is, until his 
superior s began discouraging him from bringing any more proposals forth. 
Less than a week the show’s conclusion, students walking by the gallery 
were surprised to see a red “X” spray-painted across its doors and a huge 
banner hanging from the roof that read “Permanent Closure. ” Many 
assumed it was an official announcement from the university and that the 
fate of the gallery was sealed. It turned out, however, that the “X” and the 
banner were installed by a group called the Collective Magpie — comprised 
of a pair of UCSD Masters of Fine Arts graduates — as part of their 
exhibit. It wasn’t until May 20, just a few days later, that university officials 
announced not only that the UAG would be permanently closed, but also 
that it would be turned into a classroom. In their press release, they cited the 
ever-increasing student population as the reason for their decision.
See ARTS, page 5The official closure of the University Art Gallery marks the mos t recent move in the administrative removal of 
student art spaces from campus. Clearly, it will take much more  than the protest and plight of a single department 
to effectuallly address the eradicationn of arts, humanities, a nd student organization.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Whether for the sake of creating 
classrooms or renovating for newer 
facilities, it can be expected that the 
closure of a student space will be 
delicately veiled with an alleged plan 
for betterment. What’s troubling 
is that it takes relentless pressure 
and protest from students and 
faculty to achieve transparency in 
administrative plans for the future 
of respective student spaces. For 
instance, the relocation of the 
International Center, which was 
announced fearfully and urgently 
by volunteers at the center through 
a Facebook campaign, was revealed 
by an administrative email sent 
out several days after the Facebook 
campaign started.
Though troubling, it is 
unsurprising that the permanent closure of the UAG coincides with 
a startling trend — the number 
of arts and humanities majors at 
UCSD has decreased 31 and 53 
percent, respectively, since 2005. 
Reversing the trend is unlikely at 
best. As art spaces are being closed 
down, prospective students may 
feel that they do not have a space 
for expression, or even that they are 
passively unwelcome on our campus. 
Rather than fostering the arts 
and humanities to serve a distinct 
population of students at UCSD, 
the administration has opted for 
either STEM-oriented art, such as 
displays at Calit2 and Atkinson Hall, 
or maintaining the arts only if they 
yield large sums of money. Last May, 
Conrad Prebys made a donation 
of $500,000 to the Prebys Music 
Center, which was matched by the 
UC system’s Presidential Match for Endowed Chairs. Y et such funding is 
not available for spaces like the UAG 
and should not be a requirement for 
their existence. As the closures of 
Graffiti Hall and the Craft Center fall 
farther behind in UCSD history and 
see no purely art-based successors, 
our campus maintains its repulsion 
to spaces dedicated solely to art.
The closure of the UAG is not just 
another step toward the sterilization 
of student expression. It is the birth 
of a new campus order — one that 
not only neglects student interests 
that do not generate profit but 
actively seeks their eradication. 
For anyone opposed to a purely 
corporate future for UCSD, there 
is an immediate need to act with 
the departments being invalidated, 
with the groups being evicted and 
with the students whose academic 
interests are being treated as hobbies. TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
10am–12pm9:30am–
2:30pm9:30am–
2:30pm10am–12pm 10am–12pmSPRING HOURS OF OPERATION:
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
WHEN AND WH EREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PMJUNE
2 DATEDATEUAG’s Closure Clarifies Lack of Value for Art-Centered Student Spaces
▶ ARTS from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianGOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR 
PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Bryant Wong
2016 UCSD Graduate B.S. in General Biology
Interview by Maria Manalang//Lifestyle Staff Writer
MM: What does post-grad life look like for you? What are you feeling as 
you finish up your undergrad?
BW: After graduation, I will be attending more schooling in the form of 
veterinary school this coming August. As my undergraduate career comes 
to an end, I'm both excited and nervous. I'm excited to finish this chapter 
of my life and begin veterinary school. At the same time, I'm also nervous 
to start because it will be four more years of studying at Midwestern 
University's College of Veterinary Medicine in Glendale, Arizona.
MM: What did you major in for your undergrad and what made you 
want to pursue becoming a vet?
BW: I majored in general biology. Growing up, I always wanted to pursue 
a career that could merge my love of animals and desire to help people. By 
being a vet, I could do exactly that. In healing animals, I could alleviate the 
stress and anxieties people suffer from when their animals are sick.
Grad!As the inherent “Crap, what am I going to do after graduating?” sensation hits every senior, UCSD alumni are here to help quell that huge wave 
of “I have no idea what I’m doing. ” From graduate and trade school to job and identity searches, UCSD alumni and graduates share where they’re 
going, what they know now and generally, that everything tends to work out, whether planned or not. Life Post GradLife Post Grad
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
2015 UCSD Alum and 2016 Columbia School of Journalism Graduate 
Interview by Olga Golubkova//Lifestyle Co-Editor
OG: How did you feel about graduating from UCSD when you were a 
senior?
AK: I was excited to graduate. I felt like I had been on campus for a long 
time and I wanted to do something else. After graduation, I was a little more 
nostalgic over having to leave.
OG: What were you going to do after graduation? Did you have a solid 
plan or did you just go with the flow?
AK: I had a solid plan, which was to attend the Columbia Graduate School 
of Journalism. But before I was accepted there, I definitely thought I'd wing 
it and look for a job. My plans weren't fully formed until around May, so I 
felt a little bit of pressure to make a decision before my last round of finals. 
But I think it's okay to not commit immediately to the first offer you get after 
graduation. 
OG: Did you end up doing what you were planning to do after graduation?
AK: Y es.
OG: What are you currently doing with your life? Do you have any 
future plans?
I graduated from J-school last week and am now on the job hunt.
OG: Looking back, what would be your advice to yourself as a senior 
and other students who are graduating from UCSD?
AK: I would advise myself and other students to resist senioritis while still 
finding time to celebrate your achievements. If you already have plans after 
graduation, (or even if you don't) it can be easy to blow off your last quarter 
of classes. But I think you owe it to yourself and your professors to finish up 
with the same drive that got you this far. Kevin Chu  
2014 UCSD Alum
Interview by Olga Golubkova//Lifestyle Co-Editor
OG: How did you feel about graduating from UCSD when you were 
a senior?
KC: I was a little scared but I was also really excited! I was kind of over 
school my third year, so graduation was a welcome release. Most of the 
fear came from my third year when I didn’t know what I wanted to do 
after graduation, but I think I started to accept that what happened would 
happen, and I would just take what comes as it is and work with it. It’s super 
easy to come to this conclusion when you’re sick of schoolwork.
OG: What were you going to do after graduation? Did you have a solid 
plan or did you just go with the flow?
KC: I was going to move back home for sure. I had always wanted to go 
back to Los Angeles after graduation so I didn’t line up any jobs in San 
Diego. But, I did apply for some in LA. I also wanted to take improv classes, 
which are apparently a legal requirement of being a citizen of Los Angeles, 
much like writing screenplays in coffee shops and juice cleanses. I wanted 
to move back in with my parents and stay for a year and save up money, but 
other than that, I was getting ready for the next stage of my life.
OG: Did you end up doing what you were planning on doing after 
graduation?
KC: I did! I moved home and I found a job (a little late, but hey), and then 
I found another one and then another one! I took an improv class and then 
joined a team! I also post about all my performances on Facebook and invite 
all of my friends — another fun requirement of LA citizenship.
OG: What are you currently doing with your life? Do you have any 
future plans?
KC: I’m working and still living with my parents. I am still doing improv 
and I also help produce a weekly comedy show in East LA. I’m planning on 
moving out once I find a full-time job. I think I have to do a juice cleanse 
next but I have to figure out where to incorporate that into my schedule.
OG: Looking back, what would your advice to yourself be as a senior, 
and other students who are graduating from UCSD?
KC: Take the pressure off yourself to go out with a huge bang. If you see 
something you want to try, just go ahead and try it! There’s no better time 
than now. Also don’t move to LA. I have enough trouble finding parking 
here without all of you taking spots.Mac Witmer  
2013 UCSD Alum with B.A. in Communication and Art History  
Interview by Shelby Newallis//Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer 
SN: How was senior year for you at UCSD?
MW : When I was a graduating senior at UCSD, I felt immense pressure 
to land the dream job, the dream apartment and the perfect adult life. With 
the help of UCSD's Career Services Center, I snagged a position at one of the 
fastest growing technology companies in Silicon Valley. That job took me to 
San Francisco for a few years and most recently, has taken me to Singapore to 
work in our APAC Headquarters.
SN: Looking back, is there anything you wish you knew; or any advice 
you’d give to graduating seniors? 
MW : My advice to graduating seniors is, whether you've signed up for the 
corporate life, purchased a one way ticket to Bangkok or packed up your car to 
head home — each decision has its plus[es] and minuses. The grass is always 
greener, so the best you can do is try not [to] compare yourself to your peers. It 
will be hard when you see the gal on Instagram riding her bike, eating her free 
lunch around her corporate campus. Chances are though, that gal is dreaming 
of a gap year traveling through Europe when she sees the Snapchat of her friend 
sipping wine along the Seine. Make the best decision for you in the moment. 
If what you studied no longer fulfills you, then try something else. And 
remain flexible to the different paths that you will stumble upon during the 
journey. Remember to not worry too much about your first step, no decision 
is permanent. Consistently reflect on what makes  you happy. Stay close to the 
good friends that brought you snacks in Geisel during Finals Week. WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
pointloma.edu/daytime-mba
YOUR PURPOSE.
GAIN YOUR EXPERIENCE.
     Now is the  PERFECT TIME  to bring 
power to your purpose; to build a career 
filled with meaning and integrity. 
PLNU’s values-centered MBA program 
challenges you to become the leader 
you were meant to be. The 12-month 
PLNU Daytime MBA is designed for recent 
college graduates who want an accelerated 
opportunity to build the four important 
drivers of initial career success—business 
knowledge, real-world experience, personal 
network, and purpose. Life Sciences 
PHYS 002A. General Physics (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.   
Classical mechanics. 
PHYS 002B.  General Physics (4).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, 
discussion 1 hr. Fluids, thermodynamics, 
electromagnetism.
PHYS 002C . General Physics (4).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr. 
Waves, optics; quantum, atomic, and nuclear 
physics.2016 UCR 
Summer 
Courses in 
Physics and 
Astronomy
General course offerings for undergraduates in Life Sciences,  
Physical Sciences, Engineering, and Humanities
Summer School  Registration: 
May 16-June 15
Session 1: June 20-July 23
Session 2: July 25-August 27
For  more information, consult the 
UCR Catalog or contact (951) 827-
5332 for assistance. PHYS 02LA . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1. Lab 3 hrs. 
Laboratory for PHYS 002A.
PHYS 02LB . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 1, Session 2.  
Lab 3 hrs. Laboratory for PHYS 002B.
PHYS 02LC . General Physics  
Laboratory (1). Session 2. Lab 3 hrs.  
Laboratory for PHYS 002C.
Engineering and Physical Sciences
PHYS 040A.  General Physics (5).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr, 
lab 3 hrs. Classical mechanics.PHYS 040B. General Physics (5).  
Session 1, Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 
1 hr, lab 3 hrs. Thermodynamics, mechanical 
and sound waves, elasticity.
PHYS 040C. General Physics (5).  
Session 2. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr,  
lab 3 hrs. Electricity and magnetism, elec -
tromagnetic oscillations; dc and ac current; 
circuits.
Humanities
PHYS 037.  The Origins (4).  
Session 1. Lecture 3 hrs, discussion 1 hr.  
The Origin of the Universe, Origin of Matter, 
First Generation of Stars and Galaxies. Courtesy: National Science Foundation
d!8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
I’m tired of studying all 
the time and I want to get 
involved next year but I don’t 
know what I want to do. I don’t 
want it to be related to my major. 
Help? — Anonymous
It probably happens on a 
Monday night the day before 
finals: You’re staring at a wall, 
being filleted very slowly. In fact, 
you’re probably not even studying. 
You’re  w at c h i n g  a  K i d z  B op 
rendition of “My Girl” in a Little 
Debbie’s commercial instead of 
cramming a quarter-pound burger 
of uncooked Physical Chemistry 
facts into your brain — it’s part of 
the quintessential millennial college 
experience. But like every privileged 
yet simultaneously broke millennial 
feels in the age of social media 
and fake 8-bit noises, constraining 
oneself to a textbook is lame. So 
how do you find your passion when 
the only role you’ve auditioned for is 
“student”? Y ou think ergonomically: 
Do what you wish you could do if 
you weren’t studying. And if that 
means everything or nothing, then 
you’re already on the right track.
Seriously, nothing is a viable 
option. However, it’s also time 
to reconceptualize “nothing” as 
an alternative form of existence: 
Nothing is, inherently, something. 
Conceptions of nothing stem from 
the idea that there is a binary 
switch between something — 
studying, one might say — and 
nothingness — everything else — 
when that is simply not the case. 
Look at your nothingness, or your 
everything, and evaluate what you 
like doing in these moments.
Perhaps you’ve amassed a 
library of academic articles about 
intersectionality and the salient 
crappiness that is Hollywood 
and its inclusion problem with 
marginalized groups — cool. There 
is a wide range of organizations 
that share your passion and are 
dedicated to being productive 
and generative with discussions 
and activism. Groups such as 
these are not only great places to 
meet people, but also give you a 
sense of community outside of the 
classroom. Organizations are not 
just limited to scholarly, academic 
discourse; there exists a whole 
wheel of identities with their own 
organizations. If you’re looking 
for self-improvement, recreation 
classes at the gym are a great way 
to explore different activities that 
you’ve always wanted to dabble in 
or hone your skills further. 
What’s important, however, is 
that you find something that will 
add to your experience and not 
detract. Sure, you’ve joined one 
hundred organizations like Rachel 
Berry, but if you’re overwhelmed 
by the bar hopping, then cut back. 
Explore your interests and stay with 
what resonates most with you.
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? Need 
better ways to burn a tuna melt 
sandwich? Reach out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 
with your questions and your 
anonymity, if wanted, and we’ll 
answer as many as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
With summer and graduation 
approaching rapidly, it’s become a 
mad, cutthroat race to the finish 
line to find the perfect internship, enroll 
in the final summer GE course neglected 
until senior year or apply for that job at a 
firm where an impressive resume leads only 
to futile coffee runs. Like many students in 
transition periods, whether that’s moving from 
freshman to sophomore year, transferring into 
a new university or graduating on to bigger 
and bolder things, I was not immune to the 
anxiety-ridden epidemic that plagues many 
students with a frenzy of confusion, panic and 
identity crises. But rather than marinating in 
this devilish trifecta of delusion, detachment 
and denial, I thought it best to take my over-
exaggerated fears to someone who has lived 
through it and survived to impart wisdom to 
those struggling with the same anxieties we 
corporately suffer under.
While world-renowned life coach Oprah 
Winfrey is not always readily available on 
campus, the UCSD Career Services Center is a 
fantastic resource for academic ailments ranging 
from resume building, interview tips or even 
just the pep talk needed to get through the 
week. In an interview with my self-proclaimed “career coach, ” Roxanne Farkas, she advises 
students that, while graduation and even the 
summer season are crucial transitory points 
in professional development, there is a hugely 
undermined emphasis on self-care, wellness 
and character cultivation. Acknowledging that 
there is a pressing need to maintain financial 
sustainability or grow in a career path, Farkas 
further advises that there is yet an even bigger 
need to maintain wellness on a holistic level; 
while it’s easier to grasp at the tangible job 
or promotion, these short-term projects can 
often lead to long-term burnout, causing many 
students to lose sight of purpose and vision. So 
if this post-graduation season isn’t immediately 
followed by a job or graduate school position, 
Farkas says simply to breathe and use this 
opportunity to really come to understand what 
it is you’re pursuing — and not just for the 
immediate sake of having a job, but to satisfy 
that “further down the line” dream you had 
during Spring Quarter freshman year. 
Farkas recommends creating visuals and 
concept maps to organize and hone into certain 
passions, list out resources and navigate next-
step options. Use this season to target what it is 
you aim to do and strategically create a viable 
plan to get there, or take this opportune time to network with fellows in your specific field 
(or a variety of fields) to see what else could 
spark your interest or could be innovatively 
integrated into your own career development. 
Or volunteer at that non-profit, humanitarian 
organization to re-learn why it is you wanted 
to get into that field of algae microbiology in 
the first place. Better yet, travel — globally, 
locally, or heck, down the street — and create 
your own marketability, showing how lived 
experiences make you an individual worthy of a 
position beyond the coffee runner. But overall, 
Farkas emphasizes that this is a turning point 
unlike any other, so use it to your advantage to 
develop character, maintain well-being, and, 
as Tommy Haverford would say, treat yo’self. 
It’s okay to not have a 9 to 5 yet; there’s plenty 
of time down the line to navigate that route. 
And if you need some tangible next steps or 
would like to learn more about how to visually 
map out future plans, Farkas graciously accepts 
emails at rfarkas@ucsd.edu and is offering 
a course this summer that incorporates art, 
career mapping and visionary goal-setting. 
And as per usual, the Career Services Center, 
located off of Library Walk, is open and ready, 
armed with capable peer staff members and 
professional career guides.A SEASON OF
SELF-CARE  
Adulting is undoubtedly 
terrifying. It creeps 
up on you with a fear of 
unemployment and attacks 
with the realization that your 
budgeting habits are worse 
than those of a toddler. 
But fear not, Rady School 
of Management not only 
teaches future businessmen 
how to build a global 
business strategy, but also 
educates the rank and file 
of this world about how to 
properly budget earnings.
Taught every quarter 
of the next academic 
year, Personal Financial 
Management course (MGT 
16) equips people from all 
walks of life with valuable 
knowledge on savings, 
debt and budgeting. In 
class, you will learn what 
happens to every dollar in 
your paycheck and how to keep track of that from the 
perspective of a working 
college graduate. As an MGT 
16 student you will get a 
chance to participate in two 
projects — the “Tracker” 
project and investment 
portfolio analysis project.
Have you ever asked 
yourself where your 
money is going? “Tracker” 
will help you realize how 
you spend and how to 
efficiently allocate your 
funds. It allows students to 
track their spending for 30 
days, considering various 
categories of a budget — 
housing, transportation, 
food, clothes, fun and 
education. Spoiler: Y ou 
probably spend more money 
on coffee than you think.
Investment portfolio 
analysis project, in turn, is 
a way to learn how to boost your fortune. For the time 
of the project, every student 
is given an imaginary one 
million dollars, and the 
class is being divided into 
five groups. To win and get 
extra credit, all members 
of the group should pick 
the best investment that 
would maximize their 
returns. Never understood 
the intricacies of a stock 
market? Investment 
portfolio analysis project is 
what you need to educate 
yourself on the ins and 
outs of this essential part 
of adult world. 
Personal Financial 
Management is a class 
that is equally useful for a 
bioengineer and a history 
major, so sign up today 
to confidently enter the 
big boys and girls’ world 
tomorrow.1. Spend less than you 
make
This way you will have 
extra money that you will 
be able to put into work 
saving up for a variety of 
things, be it a car, house 
or retirement.
 
2. When in debt, think 
ahead
Y ou can always borrow 
money, but you have to 
pay it back, which takes 
away from your future 
savings. If you use debt, 
use it wisely and carefully 
and have a definite plan 
how to pay it back.
 
3. Save early, save 
systematically and 
investY ou may not know this, 
but if you were to save $10 
a day (give up two coffees 
or a coffee and a muffin) 
for 40 years, you would 
have $146,000. If you 
were to make a monthly 
investment of $300 that 
would deliver something 
comparable to the U.S. 
stock market for the last 
hundred years, it would be 
worth almost $2 million.
 
4. Students can save 
too
Buy used books instead of 
brand new ones. Always 
pool your resources — 
chip in for Uber and go 
grocery shopping together 
with your friends to get 
good deals.  Budgeting Advice from Professor Pecore, MGT 16Personal Finance Management Course (MGT 16)
by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-EditorPHOTO COURTESY OF CAREER SERVICES CENTER THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Life can often feel like a 
movie. When things are 
going extremely well or 
horribly wrong, it can seem as 
if we’re the leading actors of our 
own feature film, following a 
singular plot line that rises and 
then falls again. 
But unlike motion pictures, 
our familiar melodramas rarely 
end as neatly as Tinseltown would 
have us believe. Joe DiPietro, 
the Tony Award-winning writer 
of “Hollywood, ” exemplifies the 
consequences of treating reality as 
fiction by telling the real, screen-
worthy murder story of silent-film 
director William Desmond Taylor 
(Scott Drummond), whose death 
remains a cold case. 
On a crisp February night 
during the golden age of the film 
industry, William, a.k.a. Bill Taylor, 
was shot and killed in his swanky 
Los Angeles home after enjoying 
the company of two of his budding 
actresses. The job of the audience and D.A. Thomas Woolvine (Jeff 
Marlow) of the LAPD is to figure 
out whodunit, a task that proves 
extremely hard to accomplish 
amid the sin and corruption that 
characterizes Hollywood and the 
pictures produced there during the 
roaring ‘20s. 
Throughout the play, a 
dead Taylor looms over the 
investigation, dropping hints and 
reenacting his murder as different 
scenarios are discussed. In time, 
the amount of suspects can be 
counted on one hand, but fame-
driven passions, yellow journalism 
and the crafty dialogue of the 
playwright serve to obscure the 
truth beyond recognition. 
To contrast the hedonistic 
nature of the movers and 
shakers of the film industry, Will 
Hays (Patrick Kerr), the newly 
appointed president of the Motion 
Picture Producers and Distributors 
of America, enters the scene as 
the conservative voice of Middle America. He seeks to purge the 
scandals he sees going on in 
cinema reels, acknowledging that 
the only way to oust the problem is 
to start at the root. 
Referring to the likes or 
dislikes of his Aunt Sally as 
a measure of purity, Hays is 
convincingly characterized by the 
plain-speaking, small-in-stature 
Kerr. Acting as the narrator of 
“Hollywood” and as a pivotal 
player, Kerr’s performance depicts 
with masterful composure the 
God-fearing Hays’ struggle for 
control against the filmmaking 
outlaws of the era.  
The amount of world-class 
talent on stage is an unmistakeable 
facet of “Hollywood. ” While 
some of the supporting roles 
fall to the wayside, each of the 
five main characters puts on 
dazzling performances from start 
to finish. Tony Award-winning 
actress Harriet Harris, who 
plays Charlotte Shelby — the protective mother of Mary Miles 
Minter (Talene Monahon) — is 
particularly spectacular in her 
passionate, charged bouts of 
outrage. But when comforting 
her all-but-sane daughter, Harris 
adopts a motherly tone that can 
make any mature adult feel as if 
they are a needy child. 
The composer of “Hollywood, ” 
Wayne Barker — who single-
handedly sets the tone of the play 
from his piano onstage — is also a 
Tony Award winner, receiving the 
honor after producing the score for 
the La Jolla Playhouse’s production 
of “Peter and the Starcatcher. ” His 
jumping chord progressions and 
single-key musical gymnastics, 
reminiscent of early 20th century 
saloon music, almost fool you into 
believing you’re actually watching 
a silent film instead of a theatrical 
production, further blurring the 
line between cinematic artifice and 
present reality. 
The La Jolla Playhouse didn’t cut any corners in its production 
of “Hollywood, ” and both the cast 
and crew have put their best foot 
forward. The set and choreography 
frame the actors in a believable 
time and place, and artistic 
director Christopher Ashley has 
made it impossible to turn away 
from the mysterious story that 
unfolds under the dim lighting.
At the end of the second act, 
just as it seems we’ve discovered 
the killer, it becomes clear that, in 
a place like Hollywood — where 
fiction and nonfiction have 
fused together to become one — 
nothing is as it seems. And if that’s 
the case, then why bother with 
the end of the story, as long as 
the rest is dazzling, dramatic and 
beautiful? Because, let’s face it, the 
truth doesn’t sell.  
— MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO
Contributing Writer
PHOTO BY JIM CARMODY
PLA Y   REVIEW
HOLL YWOOD A
NEIGHBORS   2
THE  
 NICE  GUY s
Rogen and Efron return for more frat hijinks, but the game’s gotten old. Despite all its late-night cruising and bruising, “The Nice Guys” 
rarely ever veers away from a powerful, if still formulaic, blueprint.“Neighbors 2: Sorority 
Rising” begins with 
paradise deferred: Mac 
Radner and his wife, Kelly 
(Rose Byrne), may have 
defeated the devilish frat-
boy cohorts of the previous 
film (titled, surprisingly, 
“Neighbors”), but life seems 
hell-bent on giving them no 
reprieve. A sequel is the only 
possible remedy. 
Seth Rogen returns to play 
Mac, the befuddled stoner, 
but it’s tough to feel much 
for this iteration of the aging 
layabout. He’s smoked one 
too many clichés. Oh, and 
Kelly is pregnant. Again. They 
find out the wonderful news 
while having sex, when Kelly 
vomits onto Mac’s chest; it 
wasn’t the crab salad, after all. 
The jokes are as raunchy as 
those offered by “Neighbors, ” 
but “2” lacks the same earnest 
devotion to debauchery and 
good fun. It’s tired, and the 
cast seems to know it, with 
phoned-in performances and 
a sluggish pace. 
The plot unfolds slowly, 
as Mac’s house sale is 
straddling the high-wire. 
He has to survive a 30-day escrow period, during 
which the buyers will make 
inspections and check out 
the neighborhood. Enter 
stage left, freshman Shelby 
— played, with all-attendant 
teenage rebelliousness, by 
Chloë Grace Moretz — 
accompanied by a group of 
hard-partying first-years 
hell-bent on having the time 
of their lives. Naturally, they 
move in next door. 
Meanwhile, Teddy Sanders 
(Zac Efron) has run into 
trouble of his own: He’s been 
forced to leave the nest, as 
fellow frat member and soon-
to-be former roommate, Pete 
Regazolli (Dave Franco), 
decides to move his fiancee 
in and Teddy out. The 
brotherhood, it seems, has 
been broken. Bereaved and 
broke, Teddy runs back to his 
old frat house, where he gives 
Shelby advice on how to start 
a sorority, and inadvertently 
ignites conflict between the 
Radners and their newfound 
neighbors. 
What follows is a lengthy 
parade of dick jokes, pad 
jokes, bad jokes and the 
occasional discourse on life, sexism, parenthood and 
university law. In this mess, 
Efron manages to elevate his 
material, instilling Teddy with 
a weary anxiety that strikes 
true; he’s graduated, sure, but 
his life hasn’t sorted itself out 
along the way. Isn’t that not 
supposed to happen? And, 
even amid dildo quips, Mac 
and Kelly come to realizations 
of their own, wondering 
about their readiness for a 
second child and worrying 
for Stella’s future. 
“Neighbors 2” lacks 
Rogen’s usually fantastic 
comedic timing and is 
predictable every step of the 
way, but it treats its characters 
with surprising generosity. 
They’re jackasses, sure, but 
Stoller and Rogen wrote a 
plot without too much vitriol 
and malice. You kind of want 
to root for these guys, even if 
you know how the story will 
play out. 
—   Alicia  Lepler
Contributing WriterThe buddy comedy, with 
its mismatched partners 
and screwy conflicts, has long 
been a Hollywood institution. 
The genre has established 
major staples throughout 
film’s history, from the silent 
Laurel and Hardy films of the 
‘20s to director Shane Black’s 
own rowdy “Lethal Weapon” 
in the ‘80s. Having worked 
with Mel Gibson, Black must 
be used to working with the 
crazy and stubborn — which 
explains how well he’s been able 
to navigate the film industry’s 
demands and still express his 
own voice. 
Taking place in a grimy 1977 
Los Angeles, stakes are set high 
from the beginning of the film. 
Misty Mountains, an adult-film 
star, dies after a fatal crash. 
Shortly after, private detective 
Holland March (Ryan Gosling) 
is hired to find a missing girl, 
Amelia Kutner (Margaret 
Qualley), who happens to 
have a striking resemblance to 
Misty. In an inspired bit of bad 
luck, enforcer Jackson Healy 
(Russell Crowe) beats him up 
after Amelia noticed March 
tailing her — believing him to be a hitman. But when Amelia 
truly disappears, Healy comes 
to seek the help of a PI, master 
klutz and former victim — 
Holland March. 
Black uses his resources 
wisely, putting the relationship 
between an ever doe-
eyed Ryan Gosling and a 
barbarous Russell Crowe in 
the spotlight to counteract 
darker overtones. The two 
have an incredible rapport, 
firing off microexpressions and 
12-gauges alike as if they were 
old pals. Having that at the 
forefront shines a light on some 
of the quickest and funniest 
dialogue of the year. Acidic 
barbs are traded at each other 
like cards, mach-speed insults 
with no remorse.
In the vein of filmmakers 
like Jon Favreau, whose 
signature visual style is a lack 
thereof, Shane Black does little 
to flex the film’s visual muscle. 
Instead, he relies on his and 
co-writer Anthony Bagarozzi’s 
script to deliver the personality. 
He’s able to incorporate 
hallucinogenic bumblebees, 
mermaids and, in one of the 
film’s most memorable scenes, Nixon angels without flinching 
because he’s able to find broader 
humor even in the more absurd. 
A dedication to economical 
storytelling also keeps the 
engine running hot, unafraid to 
pull the trigger and raise stakes 
for the greater good of the film. 
What ultimately holds back 
the film from greatness is its 
adherence to formula. Despite 
the Blackisms and some of 
the funniest performances 
of the year, there’s nothing 
groundbreaking in structure 
or story. A few weak spots also 
lie toward the end of the film, 
with a few awkward speeches 
that seem parroted from an 
undergrad who just discovered 
the military-industrial complex. 
“The Nice Guys” is a comfort 
food and a delectable one 
at that — destined to roam 
cable reruns but get you cozily 
seated after landing on the 
channel. Bound together by 
circumstance, these urban 
cowboys are worth watching 
ride off into the sunset. 
—   Samuel velazquez
Associate EditorPHOTO COURTESY OF UNDERCOVER NETWORKPHOTO COURTESY OF FLICKREEL
Directed by   Nicholas Stoller
Starring   Seth Rogan, Zac Efron, Rose Byrne
Rated  R
Release Date  May 20Directed by   Shane Black
Starring   Ryan Gosling, Russell Crowe, Matt Bomer
Rated  R
Release Date  May 20 C+ B-Directed by   Christopher Ashley
Starring   Harriet Harris, Patrick Kerr, Jeff Marlow
Runs  May 10 to June 12
Rated   R
FILM   REVIEW FILM   REVIEW10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Thule Get-away 2-Bike Car Rack - $75. This 
is a great bike rack for a sedan or small car. 
Comes with all parts/pieces and is in ter -
rific condition. Purchased from El Camino 
Bikes in 2013 and has been used only a 
handful of times. Listing ID: 267936173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Road Bike - $150. I have one light road 
bike. I don’t use it and it just sits in the 
garage and collects dust. Everything works 
perfectly and it runs smoothly. Listing ID: 
267936172 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Giant Escape - $290.  Commuter / urban 
bike. 24 speeds, fast bike and good climb -
ing performance. Its lightweight aluminum 
frame is complemented by a steel fork 
which dampens the road vibrations so 
you can enjoy a quick, smooth ride. Safe 
and reliable bike. Listing ID: 267936168 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
PETS
Loving Rottweilers - $800. Female and male 
rottweilers looking for a loving home. They 
are a month and a half and are very play -
ful!!!! Price is up for negotiation. Listing ID: 
267425170 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Maltipoo Puppies - $400. Maltipoo two-
month-old pups, shots and dewormed, 
health guarantee. Parents on site. Mom is 
a toy poodle and dad Maltese. Have male 
and females. White, crate trained and go 
on training pads. Listing ID: 267424601 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Cyclura, Blue Rock Iguana - $400. Cyclura 
babies for sale. Both parents are Cyclura 
Lewisi hybrids aka Cayman Blue Rock 
Iguana.  Listing ID: 267424571 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
FURNITURE
Sofa - $300. Looking to sell a living room 
sofa from Living Spaces. Selling because I am moving. Great condition - in possession 
for only a year. No stains and no smell. Non-
smoking apartment. Will not deliver but 
will help you load onto a truck. Listing ID: 
267425343 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Twin Gel Memory Foam Mattress Topper 
- $20. Twin size gel-infused open-cell mem -
ory foam mattress topper. Adds comfort 
and channels away heat from body. In box, 
never opened, never used. Please pick up 
in Mira Mesa or will meet up to ten mini -
mum away from central Mira Mesa. $2 for 
every extra five minimum drive. Thank you! 
Listing ID: 267936235 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Foldable Chair - $8. Bought from IKEA, like 
new. If you live around UCSD or Convoy, I 
can drop it off to you. Elsewise, pick up only. 
Listing ID: 267936234 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
treasures
vintage
fashion
UCSD International Center • Tuesday -  Friday, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(858) 534-1124 • shopfic@ucsd.edu
@Friends_Resale_Shop
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
15% OFF
of any pu rchase
Applicab le May 26 to June 1
Date restrictions  appl y.*
*Dates & Times :
Mon. to Fri. 10:30am - 10pm
Sat. to Sun. 12pm - 5pm
Located at the Student  Services Center
(across from the  Price Cente r)SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Despite finishing the season on 
a low note, the No. 10 UCSD 
women’s water polo team had 
a fantastic season overall, finishing 
28–11, tying the program record. 
Starting the season at the Santa 
Barbara Winter Invitational, the 
Tritons started the season at a rock 
solid 3–0 before eventually falling 
to UC rivals UC Santa Barbara, who 
were ranked 13th at the time, in a 
tight 10–9 match.
In the next matchup, UCSD played 
No. 3-ranked USC in its first match 
against a top-10 team. Alas, it was not 
the Tritons’ night, as they were blown 
out 17–4. This initiated an unfortunate 
trend for the team, as it was unable to 
win against a top-10 team for most of 
the season. 
Despite the loss, the team would 
turn home for the Triton Invitational 
with a solid 4–2 record, just enough 
for a 19th-overall ranking. Opening 
up against No. 17 Indiana, the Tritons 
showed they were ready to defend their 
home turf as they sunk the Hoosiers 
11–3, thanks to a combined six goals 
from senior attacker Julia Kirkland, 
senior center Lauren Finwall and 
redshirt junior two-meter defender Alexis Wieseler. Later that day, UCSD 
had a chance at redemption against 
USC, as the Tritons hoped to settle the 
score. But even with senior goalkeeper 
Courtney Miller’s seven saves, the 
Tritons fell once again to the Trojans, 
with a final score of 15–8.
The following day, however, the 
Tritons had another shot at revenge, 
facing off against UCSB early in the 
morning. The game was a thriller, as 
the Tritons needed sudden death to 
knock out the Gauchos 12–11 off of 
a junior center Lauren Boyer goal, 
finishing off the day tying her career 
high of five goals.
After splitting at home, the Tritons 
would go on to play in the UC Irvine 
Invitational, losing matches against 
No. 5 UC Davis and No. 7 Arizona 
State, but pulling out strong victories 
against No. 14 LMU and No. 12 Pacific 
— all close wins.
The Tritons, now ranked 12th, 
would go on a stretch of dominance 
as they won their next 10 games — 
including a thrilling rematch against 
Indiana, which required going into 
sudden death to pull out the victory.
Breaking the streak was a 11–5 
loss to the No. 3-ranked Stanford, beginning a losing streak: The 
Tritons went on to lose back-to-back 
games against No. 7 UC Irvine and 
No. 4 Hawaii.
Luckily, the Tritons still had some 
gas left in the tank, as they closed 
out the regular season on a five-
game winning streak, heading into 
the Western W ater Polo Association 
Championship with a strong 24–9 
overall record.
Playing their championship 
games at Chabot College, the Tritons 
had their way with Mercyhurst, 
cruising by with a 16–4 victory, and 
then mounted a comeback against 
Cal State East Bay to win 9–5 to earn 
the WWPA titles and an automatic 
bid to the NCAA Championship.
First up was their play-in game 
against Whittier, whom the Tritons 
defeated handily despite a late rally 
by the Poets. Traveling to Los Angeles 
to compete in the remainder of the 
tournament, the Tritons earned the 
right to face the host, No. 3 UCLA. It 
didn’t end well.
Despite Wieseler’s two goals, the 
Tritons were no match for UCLA’s red-
hot offense, as the Bruins dropped 17 
points to the Triton’s measly four. The Tritons actually scored the opening 
goal, a Wieseler score off a power play, 
but the Bruins began pulling ahead 
in the second quarter, and eventually 
outscored the Tritons 7–0 in the third 
quarter alone. 
But the Tritons would bounce 
back, facing a familiar opponent in No. 
7 UCSB in the consolation bracket. 
Catching fire early in the game, the 
Tritons simply outmatched the 
Gauchos on offense, outscoring them 
in every quarter but the last. Thanks to 
Wieseler’s three goals, two assists, and 
one steal, the Tritons ran away with a 
10–5 victory, earning their first win 
against a top-10 ranked opponent.
In their final game of the 
tournament, the Tritons found 
themselves fighting for fifth place 
against No. 6 Arizona State. But their 
potent offense from the previous 
game was nowhere to be found, as 
UCSD could only muster up two 
goals, one from senior attacker 
Emma Sasson and one from Wieseler.  
Arizona State found its stride in 
the second half, scoring six goals to 
clinch an 8–2 win against the Tritons.
The Tritons finished the 
tournament in sixth place, matching their program best. UCSD finished 
28–11 overall, which also tied a 
program record and was a career 
best for seventh-year head coach 
Brad Kreutzkamp. Wieseler was 
rewarded for her stellar play by being 
named to the NCAA Championship 
All-Tournament Second Team; she 
scored six goals in the tournament, 
and had a team high 78 goals and 71 
steals for the season. Senior attacker 
Laurel Kistler was vital to the team’s 
success this season, earning a statline 
of 58 goals, 42 assists and 57 steals on 
the season, while Miller held down 
the fort with 305 saves, 41 assists and 
28 steals.
At the end of this year, the Tritons 
will lose five seniors, but retain 19 
others, including Alexis Wieseler.
“We’ve definitely had our biggest 
win of all our appearances at NCAAs 
this time around, ” Miller said in the 
team’s final press conference. “This 
game didn’t really go how we hoped 
it would but, I mean, it doesn’t really 
take anything away from the season 
that we’ve had. ”  
The UCSD baseball team’s 
2016 season ended more quickly 
than expected, but the Tritons still 
managed to have a successful season 
for many reasons. While they didn’t 
qualify for the regional tournament 
with their 31–21 this season, they did 
qualify for the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association tournament as 
the fourth seed in the tournament, 
which consisted of the top-six teams 
in the conference — three from the 
north and three from the south. The 
team lost to No. 25 California State 
Polytechnic University Pomona, 
which ended up winning the CCAA 
tournament. 
After losing their ace pitcher Justin 
Donatella last season, the Tritons 
struggled to find a player to fill that 
role. No matter the age, many stepped 
up when needed and pitched very 
well for their team. Freshman right-
hander Kyle Mora held a 4–0 overall 
record with a 2.37 ERA, and he is 
currently ranked sixth nationally in 
the NCAA Division II in terms of hits 
allowed per nine innings (5.21). Mora 
was also selected to be a member of 
the All-CCAA second team; he was 
the only freshman in the league to be 
selected on either the All-CCAA first 
or second team. Freshman pitcher Tim Nelson also 
had a great year on the mound as he 
was selected to the CCAA honorable-
mention team because of his 7–2 
record, making 24 appearances as a 
relief pitcher. Another notable pitcher 
was freshman Preston Mott, who had 
14 starts for the Tritons and threw 
nearly 70 innings for the team. Senior 
left-handed pitcher Eric Moersen also 
had a great season with the Tritons 
as he made 14 appearances, all in 
relief, and didn’t give up any runs 
in 13 of those outings. Meanwhile, 
senior right-handed pitcher Alon 
Leichman also had a noteworthy 
season as he made nine starts during 
14 appearances. Indeed, Leichman 
boasted a team-high 48 strikeouts 
and led the pitching staff with 68.2 
innings pitched. 
Junior outfielder Jack Larsen was 
a first team All-CCAA selection 
after leading the team in nearly all 
offensive categories. He had a total 
of 66 hits in 204 at bats, boasting a 
team-high 0.324 batting average. He 
also led the team in runs scored (37), 
doubles (10) and home runs (six). 
Defensively, Larsen contributed with 
10 outfield assists, including three on 
plays at the plate. Larsen was named 
the National Collegiate Baseball 
Writers Association All-West Region 
honorable mention.
Also important to note is sophomore hitter Tyler Plantier’s 
contribution, as he was selected 
to be an All-CCAA second-team 
selection after having a breakout 
year in the batter’s box. He tallied 
a 0.310 batting average and led the 
team in runs, batting in with 34. Senior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez, 
sophomore catcher Steven Coe and 
junior shortstop Tyler Howsley were 
All-CCAA honorable mentions.
Though it lost five seniors — 
Alon Leichman, Eric Moersen, Zach 
Friedman, Gradeigh Sanchez and Trey Ferketic — the team will be 
returning with a lot of talent. UCSD 
looks to improve on this season and 
earn its way to postseason next year. 
Samantha  Glantz    BY  Sa m a n t h a  G l a n t z
senior UCSD Baseball Finishes Season With A CCAA-Tournament Loss
The Tritons’ baseball team’s 2016 campaign ended a lot earlier than expected, but the team still had a successful season for many reasons.BASEBALLAlex Wu     
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY PATRICK LAZO /UCSD GUARDIAN
Water Polo Has A Historic Season
NCAA Tournament berth and CCAA title 
highlights an impressive season for the team. 
Written by Senior Staff Writer  // Alex WuSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER 
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 26, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.
Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/host