California gubernatorial 
candidate Delaine Eastin delivered a keynote address 
to members of the UCSD College Democrats at their first meeting 
of the academic year yesterday 
evening. During her speech and in a sit-down interview with the UCSD Guardian prior to the event, Eastin, a former California Superintendent of Public Instruction, emphasized her strong background on education and her desires to make preschool through university accessible for all Californians.
Eastin began her prepared 
remarks by encouraging participation 
in government, noting that “idiots” 
originally referred to those who 
did not contribute to politics and 
declaring that “to lose faith in 
government means to lose faith 
in society. ” She then went on to 
summarize her platform: clean air 
and water for everyone, healthcare as a right, affordable housing for all, and 
quality, economical education from preschool to graduate school.
Throughout the duration of 
her speech, Eastin highlighted her experiences as a member of the 
Union City Council and California 
Assembly, as well as her fight to protect 
the rights of immigrant students as 
state superintendent. She additionally 
advocated for education as a civil 
right and long-range planning on VOLUME 51, ISSUE 2  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 9, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BEHIND THE 
TYPEWRITER
The UCSD Guardian speaks 
with alumnus and published 
author Kelly Loy Gilbert on 
storytelling and the lack of 
diversity within the publishing 
industry.
UC  HYPOCRISY  ON   DACA
WOMEN'S  SOCCERImmigrant jobs  neglected
unbea ten  in  conference  pla yOPINION,  Page   4
sports,  Page  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“Three years ago, I decided 
to leave Russia when it became too scary, and I understood that I either needed to stop speaking up in politics or I would start wasting my time in jails and hospitals.”
- Revekka Gershovich
PUTIN IT IN PERSPECTIVE: 
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
CRIME............................ .2
LAPTOP LENDNG.............4
LOST IN TRANSLATION .. 11
CROSSWORD ................ 14
MEN’S SOCCER ............ 15Weekend,  PAGE  8
MONDAY
H 72 L 64TUESDAY
H 72 L 60
WEDNESDAY    
H 71 L 60THURSDAY
 H 73 L 62
Cost of  UC 
Pensions May Increase TuitionUC SYSTEM
There is a budgetary gap 
between the UC Retirement Plan 
expenditures and UC funding 
that needs to be resolved.
The UC Board of Regents debated 
an issue last month that has plagued 
the UC operational budget for over 
a decade: an ongoing budgetary gap 
between the expenditures of the 
UC Retirement Plan and UC core 
funds that may lead to an increase in 
tuition, even for California residents.
If enacted, this could be the 
second tuition hike following the 
Regents’ decision earlier in January to 
approve the first increase in six years.
Dianne Klein, a spokeswoman 
for the UC Office of the President, could not determine how much of the second tuition hike will be used to pay off pension costs, because both state and UC funds factor into the 
core funds as well. According to the 
most recent UC Budget for Current Operations report, these core funds — totaling $7.8 billion in the fiscal year of 2015-2016 — grant long-term funding for core mission and support activities such as faculty salaries, academic or administrative support, and student services. 
Employee and retiree benefits 
took up 19 percent of the core expenditures. 
When speaking to the Los Angeles 
Times, Klein addressed the issue by pointing out the retirement trend in recent years of baby boomers, particularly those with long tenures 
and higher salaries within the faculty.
“UC, as you know, has an aging 
workforce, ” Klein remarked.
The UCRP currently provides 
lifetime retirement benefits for more 
than 56,000 retirees and has 128,513 active members as of last year. 
In fact, the Annual Financial 
Report for the UC retirement system last year confirms that the number of 
UCRP benefit recipients drastically 
increased in the past decade: from 37,289 retirees in 2006 to 60,178 retirees in 2016. Benefit payments for the UCRP were equally affected, with retirement payments costing $1,260,092 in the fiscal year of 2007-2008 doubling to $2,596,632 by 2015-2016.
According to Lawrence 
McQuillan, a senior fellow at a nonpartisan think-tank called the Independent Institute, the tuition increase is certainly unjust for students, but it also necessary to safeguard the indebted UC pension system.  
“I think this year’s higher tuition 
is just the beginning of bailouts by students and their parents, ” McQuillan told the LA Times. “They are going to be the piggy bank to solve the problem in the long term. ”
The root of this issue can be Student Disrupts Protest by Stabbing Free Speech Ball
The Y oung Americans for Liberty at UC San 
Diego were tabling on library walk this past 
Friday in protest of unconstitutional speech 
codes and awareness of First Amendment rights 
when a student stabbed the free speech ball around 
four times with what YAL group claims was a knife. The free speech ball was a six-foot beach ball on which students could write whatever they would 
like as a part of YAL ’s free speech campaign.
YAL initially contacted the UCSD Guardian 
regarding the incident, providing a statement on 
their version of events.
According to YAL, the student who allegedly 
stabbed the ball was first asked by the group if he would like to sign the free speech petition, and did so under the name “Karl Marx. ” When signing the free speech ball itself, the student wrote “sic semper tyrannus, ” Latin for “thus always to tyrants. ” The student then proceeded to stab the ball four times without the group noticing. No one was hurt during 
the incident.
At the table were members of the YAL group, 
among them UCSD YAL Chapter President Jonah 
Naoum as well as Brian Pryor from the Leadership Institute. 
The group and Pryor observed the ball deflating 
and subsequently patched it up and called the UC San Diego Police Department. The student who stabbed the ball had also left his email on the petition, associating him with the Groundwork 
Books Collective. YAL and Pryor then went to the co-op in the Old Student Center. However, Pryor supposedly was pushed out of the store by one of 
the employees as the student in question ran away. 
YAL students along with Pryor responded by calling 
campus police for a second time.
YAL added that the student was arrested by the 
UCSD police and brought in for questioning after 
the station was notified by an off-duty officer who 
stopped the student. 
However, when the Guardian contacted campus 
police to confirm the incident, campus police 
contradicted YAL ’s statement, telling the Guardian 
that student was not arrested nor brought in for 
questioning given that the owner of the beach ball did not want to press charges. 
Campus police additionally noted that the phone 
call they received informing them of “Karl Marx’s” whereabouts came from a member of the YAL, and not an off-duty security guard. Upon learning the location of “Karl Marx” , campus police then went to 
the scene where they detained and questioned the 
student. Campus police had no knowledge of the prior incident at Groundwork Books.
Despite campus police’s denial that the student 
was arrested, YAL maintains that he was as the student was “publically handcuffed, ” and “legally, to be placed in handcuffs is a restriction on your liberty and that qualifies as arrest. ” 
The Guardian reached out to Groundwork 
Books for a statement on Friday’s events but have 
yet to receive a response. By armonie mendez  editorial assistantCAMPUS
Delaine Eastin primarily discussed her plans for improving education, like universal preschool.CAMPUS
BY LAUREN HOLT 
NEWS EDITOR
BY KEVIN CHIANG
Contributing writer
Gubernatorial Candidate Delivers Speech to Students
Gubernatorial candidate Delaine Eastin addresses students in Price Theatre at the first UCSD College Democrats meeting of the year.
Photo by Eugenie Juan // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
See TUITION,  page 3 See EASTIN , page 3Armonie mendez   aemendez@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
Whether you study anthropology or zoology or
anything in between, learn what it takes to bringthe latest news to your fellow UCSD Tritons.
RECRUITMENT •1 0/1 2
STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 2 • 6:30 PM
 Free Pizza, People, and Plenty of Paper.
APPLY NOW, ROLLING APPLICATIONS!ROOMMATES By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Bacon pancakes, bacon bacon pancakes: the Guardian made pancakes today.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Aarthi Venkat
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Armonie Mendez, Tina Chen, Richard Lu 
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb Governor Jerry Brown signed 
a bill on October 2nd, that 
prohibits interference with a state 
audit, punishable by a fine up to 
$5,000. Refusing to permit access, 
examination, and reproduction 
of documents, in accordance with the bill, will be treated as a 
misdemeanor.
The bill was written by 
Assemblymembers Muratsuchi, 
McCarty, and Ting, and passed 
almost unanimously on September 
11th, with 77 yeses and 2 abstains.
This bill follows an investigation 
into the University of California Office of the President (UCOP) that 
occurred earlier this year. In a letter 
to the governor, State Auditor Elaine 
Howle explained that the UCOP 
had $175 million dollars reserved 
that were not originally reported.
“Our report concludes that 
the Office of the President has amassed substantial reserve 
funds, used misleading budgeting 
practices, provided its employees 
with generous salaries and atypical 
benefits, and failed to satisfactorily 
justify its spending on system-wide 
initiatives, ” Howle explained. 
According to the audit report 
released by the state, auditors 
sent out two surveys requesting 
feedback on the services provided by the UCOP and the cost that 
each campus pays for the services. 
In doing so, they directed campus 
administrators not to share their 
responses with people outside 
their campus. However, it was later 
discovered that the feedback was 
given to the UCOP before it reached 
the audit team.
“Correspondence between the 
Office of the President and some 
campuses shows that the Office 
of the President reviewed their 
survey responses and campuses 
subsequently changed or deleted 
answers that were critical of the 
Office of the President, ” the report 
concluded.
In response to this claim, UC President, Janet Napolitano that the 
UCOP was acting as a coordinator 
between campus administrators and 
auditors. 
“We were initially contacted by 
some of the campuses to ask what 
they should do with [the surveys], 
and as a result, we inserted ourselves 
in a coordination role, ” Napolitano 
said. “That’s what happened. The 
[UC Board of Regents] are going to 
take a separate look at our actions, 
and we welcome that. ” Gov. Brown Take Measures to Prevent Future UC Interferences in AuditsCAMPUS
BY PROMITA NANDY
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
PROMITA NANDY  PNANDY@ucsd.eduUC President Janet Napolitano was found to have contacted campuses regarding their answers to surveys for last year’s audit.water, housing, and transportation 
and denounced “big tobacco, big oil, 
big pharma” and fracking.
In light of President Donald 
Trump’s recent decision to eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals policy, Eastin vowed to 
protect undocumented students and 
added that as governor, she would use 
the Tenth Amendment to do so. 
“For years I’ve watched the 
conservative Republicans of this country use the Tenth Amendment, which says all powers not given to 
the federal government nor denied to 
the states shall be in the hands of the states and the people, ” Eastin told the UCSD Guardian and later repeated during the question and answer session following her speech. “I think we use that to say to the federal government ‘These are our citizens. These are California’s citizens, and you don’t have the power to come in here and tell us to kick them out of 
college or school or out of their jobs. ’” 
When the Guardian questioned 
Eastin as to whether her stance 
against federal action on immigration 
meant that she believed former 
President Barack Obama should never have implemented DACA in the first place, Eastin stated, “I think he was trying to do the right thing. ” 
On the topic of increased 
enrollment across the UC system, the 
former city councilwoman explained 
that she supports adding students to UC campuses but believes that in addition to expanding existing UC campuses vertically, more schools 
should be built to accommodate new 
students. 
“Since 1965, we have managed 
to build one measly [UC] campus, ” Eastin pointed out to the Guardian. “Y es, we ought to increase the number of California students at University of California campuses, but we also 
ought to be having a conversation 
about building new UC campuses, 
new [California State University] 
campuses, and new community 
colleges. ” 
In order to make college more 
accessible, Eastin also plans to reduce 
tuition for UC, CSU, and community college students.
“I feel very strongly that education 
is the most important thing a state 
does, ” she said. “We have to make that 
our first priority. ”
Eastin further stated to the 
Guardian that she plans to increase spending at all levels of education and 
supports intensified oversight of the 
UC system.  NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Retired Employees Still Support the UC System’s Retirement PlanEastin Supports Lower Tuition for Colleges
LAUREN HOL T  LCHOLT@ucsd.edu
KEVIN CHIANG  KKC024@ucsd.edu▶ EASTIN, from page 1
@UCSDGUARDIANFOLLOW US 
ON TWITTER
tritonfest.ucsd.edu  |       ucsdtritonfest  |       ucsdtritonfest
Triton Fest events are FREE for UCSD undergraduate & graduate students with valid student IDCOMEDY NIGHT
Featuring Jamie Lee8 PM - 12:30 AM  •  PC West BallroomPOOLSIDE CINEMA
8 PM - 12:00 AM  •   Canyonview Pool
STREETSIDE CINEMA
TRITON FEST FALL 2017FREE SCREENINGS, FOOD,
POLAROID PHOTOBOOTH,
AND MORE!
PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN
MONSTERS UNIVERSITY
VHS
VHS
Featuring Moana  & Spiderman:Homecoming
EVENTS STAR T AT 8pm10/13 10/14
traced back to 1990. At the time, the 
Regents overestimated the long-term 
sustainability of the UCRP because they had a surplus of funds from the state, UC employees, and members. They terminated all UC employee and member contributions, but without proper funding, the rising pension costs could not cope with the inevitable inflation of employees, students, and retirees over time.
Even after they reinstated 
contributions in April 2010, capped 
pensions for new employees in 
exchange for state subsidies, and 
increased the minimum retirement age, the UCRP still has not become invulnerable to the current budget 
shortfall.McQuillan also argued against 
the speculative nature of UC public 
pensions and proposed a system of personal retirement accounts and higher salaries typically used in private medical institutions.
“ At least with a big salary, there 
isn’t this ticking time bomb that’s going to explode 30 years down the road, ” McQuillan stressed.
Despite the budgetary gap, an 
LA Times analysis of university data shows many UC retirees still 
endorsing the UCRP . The number of 
retirees with six-figure pensions has 
increased by 60 percent since 2012. 
Up to three dozen retirees  —  most 
of whom were tenured doctors at the 
medical schools  —  collected pensions 
of more than $300,000 each in the 
past year.Nosratola Vaziri was one of the 
top recipients in 2016, receiving a pension of $360,000 for his 37-year tenure dedicated to UC Irvine’s medical school. He worked as a kidney and hypertension specialist, 
and made scholarly contributions to 
hundreds of scientific articles.
In Vaziri’s interview with the LA 
Times, he nonetheless maintained that “neither salary nor pension were the reason for my choice. ”
The UC Board of Regents will 
meet again on Nov. 15 and Nov. 16 
at UC San Francisco to finalize the 
budget for the next academic year.
 
▶ TUITION, from page 1As another school year begins, 
students often find themselves 
overwhelmed by the increasingly high prices of books and supplies needed for classes. With a high 
demand for technology in today’s 
era, electronic devices have become necessary tools in order for students to succeed. While this technology does facilitate learning and teaching, it also comes with a high price for students, especially for those who do not own resources as basic as a laptop. Even with an abundance of 
computer labs throughout campus 
and the accessibility of a tech lending program, students still find it difficult to keep up with the demands of schoolwork requiring the use of technology. 
According to a study conducted 
by Pearson, 54 percent of college students agreed that they learned best when using a traditional laptop or 
computer over any other electronic 
devices. When it came to doing homework, another 50 percent agreed on laptops being the best choice. The study also found that on average, three out of four college students use a laptop daily for school purposes. Undoubtedly, laptops continue to prevail among all other electronic devices. Y et, a survey conducted by 
the technology company Advanced 
Micro Devices revealed that 15 percent of college students still do not own personal laptops. With the average Windows PC laptop today costing approximately $700, it is unlikely that a low-income student would be able to afford this expense in addition to their estimated $1,521 
spent on textbooks and supplies per 
year alone.  
At many universities, including 
UC San Diego, students are required to take courses that heavily demand computer usage. Classes like computer science or statistics use programs that can only be run on computers, which automatically eliminates the possibility of using 
other simpler devices like tablets 
and smartphones. Even other classes that do not require these types of programs still rely on technology for communicating and assigning online homework such as Turnitin or WileyPLUS. For students without laptops, this puts a significant amount of additional stress as they have to accommodate their busy schedules 
to visit computer labs without a 
guarantee of finding an available computer. This further limits their time to complete class assignments as they can only stay at these places within their designated hours, which is even worse for commuters who are not on campus regularly.        
In the meantime, Geisel Library 
is home to UCSD’s Tech Lending Program, which allows students to borrow a variety of devices such as cameras, chargers, projectors, and even some laptops. However, these devices are only allowed to be checked out for three days at most, with laptops being the shortest at three hours. With the average college student spending about 17 
hours a week preparing for classes, 
three hours is clearly insufficient. Therefore, UCSD should improve their Tech Lending Program similar to that of Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Student Laptop Loaner Program. The program, which is funded by Information Systems & Technology, only allows current undergraduate students who either 
do not have a computer or have an 
incompatible outdated one to check out a laptop for a maximum of two consecutive semesters as long as it is used for school purposes. The laptops provided come with software for student needs, as well as allowing them to download other programs as they wish. The students do not 
get charged as long as the laptop 
is returned in the same condition it was lent out to them. UCSD should follow in MIT’s footsteps and perhaps expand it even more by lending other commonly used devices like iClickers. By providing these resources, UCSD could make a positive change to the academic performances of these students who 
should not need to worry about basic 
needs.
TECH LENDING PROGRAM MUST COMPENSATE 
FOR INCREASED COURSE REQUIREMENTS
BY JENNIFER RICO // STAFF WRITER
JENNIFER RICO  jmrico@ucsd.eduCONTACT THE EDITOR4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
AARTHI VENKAT
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINION
Once, one of my friends asked 
me to say something in Russian, 
my native language. I did so. The reaction that followed was beyond all my expectations — it was a reaction of astonishment. Puzzled, I asked: 
“What did you expect from that?” “I 
thought your voice would change. I thought it would become low, maybe husky, like how Russian spies or bodyguards speak in the movies. ” 
In the year since I moved from 
Russia, I have encountered all kinds of weird reactions. Some stereotypes are amusing, some are correct, like the notion that Russians love 
vodka. Others, however, are utterly 
incorrect. For instance, the one that Russian immigrants support Putin. Russians for the most part support Putin, while Russian immigrants do not. 
Traditionally, there are five waves 
of immigration identified. Let me introduce them, who they are, why they immigrated and what their 
political stances would most likely be. 
To understand who present Russian-Americans are, it is important to consider the last three. 
The third wave happened in 
1970s-1980s. By 1970, a lot of people, typically Jews, wanted to immigrate but were prevented from doing so by the Soviet Government. Thanks to Western pressure, including student 
protests in the UC system, the Soviet 
Union allowed for the emigration of Jews. Those third wave immigrants usually hate Putin because of his nationalistic rhetorics and silent support of anti-semitism. 
The fourth wave happened 
during the collapse of the Soviet Union in the 90s. These immigrants fled from the declining economic, political and social systems to pursue new opportunities and to ensure some degree of stability in their lives. 
Those people are well-assimilated 
and have no common position in American politics. However, many of them dislike Putin’s anti-west rhetoric. 
The last, fifth wave, are liberal 
people who left Putin’s Russia for political reasons and/or in pursuit of business, educational and research opportunities. Putin’s desire to substitute education, news and press 
with propaganda, to control media, 
to impose strict censorship and to lift an iron curtain all over again does not appeal to urban and open-minded young people who have grown up in west-oriented Russia. I personally could not accept this return to the authoritarian system of the Soviet Union. Therefore, I attended all 2011-2013 “Snow 
Revolution” oppositional protests, 
gave interviews, wrote oppositional articles on social media and volunteered at the Civic Assistance Committee, a group which defends refugee rights in Russia. Three years ago, I decided to leave Russia when it became too scary, and I understood 
that I either needed to stop speaking 
up in politics or I would start wasting my time in jails and hospitals. 
You  w i l l  m e e t  t h i rd - w av e 
Russians as parents and grandparents of other fellow students, fourth-wave Russians as your professors or older colleagues in research and business, and fifth-wave as your roommates, classmates and TAs. All these Russian 
Immigrants are not these abstract 
people from another nuclear state who love Putin and hate the US; they are real people, with nuanced and sometimes contradictory opinions, trying to reconcile their ideas and upbringing with the new reality of the US and changing world.
REvekka  Gershovich  revekka97@gmail.comOn issues of concern to immigrants and our families, UC President Janet 
Napolitano is guilty of either serial hypocrisy or a troubling pattern of empty 
political grandstanding.
As Secretary of Homeland Security, she implemented former President 
Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which has shielded 800,000 young people from deportation.
But during her DHS tenure, she also set new records every year in deportations, creating the so-called 
“Secure Communities” program that effectively turned local police and sheriffs across our country into Im -
migration and Customs Enforcement agents. Ironically, the only thing that Napolitano has helped secure is the divide between Dreamers and the rest of the undocumented population, allowing hardworking immigrants like UC employee Jesus Gutierrez to be deported and unjustly cast aside as lesser.
With such a mixed record, Napolitano’s eventual appointment as UC president with no prior academic experience 
predictably ignited a firestorm of controversy. As a savvy politician, she initially sought to quell it with a small commit -
ment of financial support for undocumented students.
And absent a few tuition hikes in the name of preserving bloated executive salaries and recent revelations of a secret 
$175 million slush fund at UCOP, Napolitano has successfully made efforts to avoid publicly antagonizing immigrant students as a whole. However, the same cannot be said for immigrant workers.
Thousands of immigrants work full time at low-wage rates for private employers under contract with the university. 
As a recent state audit highlighted, these workers are paid far less than UC employees who perform the same jobs. They are usually denied health insurance and other benefits that are afforded to UC employees. Many face wage theft and other forms of employer abuse — like being paid under multiple names to avoid overtime laws. Some have been working under these conditions for as long as 20 years. Janet Napolitano knows this, because these workers have been telling their stories — loudly — throughout her tenure.
But as recent scandals involving substandard treatment of these workers have exploded at places like UC Berkeley 
and UC San Francisco, she has proven herself to be more of an enabler than an ally.
Worse, she has effectively made relegating these workers to a permanent second class status at the UC system a 
priority. For example, she has repeatedly and actively campaigned against legislation that would provide the UC system’s army of immigrant contract workers equal pay with UC employees who do the same job. In struggling to defend a position so in conflict with the ideals of social mobility that the UC system professes to represent, Napolitano announced the so-called “Fair Wage-Fair Work” plan in 2015 — a system-wide policy that University of California said would provide its contract workers with a $15 per hour minimum wage by this year. There were two fatal flaws with this plan. First, as the recent state audit showed, it falls far short of the standard of equal pay for equal work. Second, as the UC system’s own internal audits prove, the University hasn’t bothered to enforce it. It was all just a PR stunt by a skilled political practitioner. As proof, we needn’t look any further than UCLA, where the university is about to discard 80 mostly immigrant hospital contract workers just months after reporting that their employer was openly violating the UC system’s minimum wage policy. Now, these mostly full-time workers are demanding that UCLA insource them and honor their years of devoted service to patients. UCLA is refusing their demands. In other words, even as she claims credit for Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals and sues the Trump Administration over some of its most virulently anti-immigrant policies, Janet Napolitano is effectively doing Donald Trump’s bidding at the UC system — turning a blind eye to the exploitation of immigrant contract workers on campus, and worse, actively opposing their aspirations for equal pay and a ladder out of poverty .
 If hypocrisy is the art of contradiction, Napolitano’s recent bout with opportunistic grandstanding repre-sents its performance. But principles like fairness and equality are not situational. You are either for them or you 
are not.
 Janet Napolitano is cynically trying to have it both ways. And in the state which represents America’s larg-
est share of immigrant workers, that is simply unacceptable.NAPOLITANO CAN’T 
HA VE IT BOTH WAYS
BY REFILWE GQAJELA // A VP OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS // Op-Ed
ILLUSTRATION BY JEFFREY LAUPUTIN IT IN
 PERSPECTIVE
    BY: REVEKKA GERSHOVICH
Riding the 
Waves of
Russian
 Immigration
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Officeand PepperCanyon HallOutsideBookstore atLibrary WalkGilmanParking Office
7–8:30 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,and 4–5 p.m.weekdays
Current registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded.  
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/25/2017Weekdays
8:30 a.m. to4 p.m.As needed per signs at Gilman Parking OfficeWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
Find  us  on  
facebook
@ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
In the world of Professor Erin Suzuki, literature has taken 
a steady hold. More than just the subject she teaches or the career she has chosen, literature has become her 
perspective on life.
Having always been surrounded by books — with even her 
mother being a librarian — Professor Suzuki has followed her interest in reading and literature to her current seat behind the professor’s podium. Here, she has not only grown in her love for the written word, but has also found her own unique niche in the world of books and stories.
The first day of the new quarter is a day that can be heralded 
as just one example of Suzuki’s distinct style of teaching. It was with a small smile that Suzuki managed to integrate into her lesson one of the last things one would expect to hear in Warren Lecture Hall: a Kanye West song.
In a way, this represents much of what Suzuki as a professor 
has been through and the unique perspectives she has found through the study of literature. Suzuki was born and raised in Hawaii. After graduating from high school at Punahou School in Honolulu, the same school Obama had attended, Suzuki left the warm, tropical island and headed to the opposite side of America: to Brown University. Here she completed her college degree and started a job soon after at Random House, a publishing company. But, after working in publishing for three years, Suzuki left to go pursue her PhD at UCLA.
“I missed a lot of the work that I was doing when I was 
in college,” Suzuki remarked. “I graduated with a degree in literature and then I went into book publishing. And I really thought that was where I was going to work on my career. But, you know, book publishing is a little bit different from studying and analyzing literature … I missed the classroom and being able to have these kinds of dialogues about novels and ideas and the kind of dynamic that emerges out of that situation. ”
It was at UCLA that Suzuki found her place in the world 
of literature. While studying for her dissertation one day in a Honolulu library during the summer, she found herself talking to one of the librarians about Herman Melville (her dissertation subject), a famous American author. But, as the librarian began talking more and more about the vast amounts of Pacific-Islander literature the library had, Suzuki found a new inspiration. Instead of being the thousandth person to do an essay on Melville, why not study Pacific-Island and Asian-American literature?
It was with this sense of realization that Suzuki began her 
career as a professor, first at Emory University and then, eventually, making her way to the sandy shores of UC San Diego.
“What I think drew me particularly to this campus is 
because … there is a growing interest in [Asian-American literature]. I think here there are many more students who are interested in the field, who are interested in developing projects and just doing research in the field of Asian-American literature … And that makes it great for me, to have a lot of people to work with, people who are curious and passionate about the field and the literature and doing some research in it, ” Suzuki commented.
So what makes Pacific Island literature different than 
the traditional Western literature that is usually studied in class? Fittingly enough, it is in the very thing that makes all literature unique: the way the writers think.
“Pacific Island 
literature is [unique because] it really engages a lot of our relationships and responsibilities to nature, each other, and our changing global realities … To really read all of these poems is not just about trying to uncover their ‘true’ meaning or find new 
information about life. And I think that’s ultimately the value of literature in general, that it gives us another avenue onto another way of thinking. I think Pacific poetry adds to that. Reading it gives us new [ways to] relate to the world around us. ”
For people like Suzuki, literature is a way of thinking. 
While history and science tell her stories about the world in their own ways, literature provides the tools to analyze and often question what she perceives to be the norm. In a way, literature to Suzuki is a continuous reminder that hers is not the only perspective on life. Whether that takes the form of a Kanye West song or poetry by Asian American and Pacific Island poets like Lois-Ann Yamanaka, Theresa Cha, Haunani-Kay Trask, or Jetnil-Kiiner, Suzuki is constantly learning and sharing new things.
While history and science tell her stories 
about the world 
in their own ways, 
literature provides the 
tools to analyze and 
often question what 
she perceives to be the 
norm.How  Kanye 
West  Came  to  
be  a 
Literature  
Topic
by Madeline Park // Contributing Writer
Photo Courtesy of University of Victoria
Madeline Park  map048@ucsd.edu
“And I think that’s ultimately the 
value of literature in general, that it 
gives us another avenue onto another 
way of thinking. I think Pacific poetry 
adds to that. Reading it gives us new 
ways to relate to the world around us. ”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
BEHIND THE TYPEWRITER:
KELLY LOY GILBERT
BY CHLOE  ESSER, STAFF WRITER
UC SAN DIEGO ALUM 
AND AUTHOR KELLY 
LOY GILBERT SPEAKS: 
STORYTELLING, 
THE PUBLISHING 
INDUSTRY, AND 
DIVERSITY.
The smallest details have been points of 
fascination for countless authors, as writers craft masterpieces from a summer’s day or a 
red rose, taking the minute aspects of existence and building them into something much larger. But for 
Kelly Loy Gilbert, UC San Diego alumna and author 
of “Conviction” and the upcoming novel “Picture Us in the Light, the soul of her work lies in the looming emotional realities that affect people on a broader, more immediate scale.
“I tend to think really hard and be struck by 
current events — the political landscape of things — and want to shine light on certain stories and things that really catch me, particularly in areas where there 
are injustices. Those tend to be things that I feel really 
drawn to and want to work out through fiction, ” Gilbert said.
Gilbert credits her ability to navigate the publishing 
industry to her time as an undergraduate literature and writing major at UCSD, but her authorial roots stretch further back. 
“Even as a very small child, I was always connected 
to the idea of storytelling, ” Gilbert recalled. “It was something I always wanted to do with my life; I was always reading and always writing. From a very young age, that was my dream. ”
But even with a vision in mind, making a career 
out of an art form is a challenging process, particularly in reconciling oneself to the commodification of 
personal  creative endeavors. “It’s one thing when 
you’re writing for yourself and for the art, ” she reflected on the publishing industry, “but once you’re turning it into a career there are so many new voices that enter your head: your publisher, your editor, all of the reviews that you’re getting. It’s the idea that something you’re creating isn’t just going to be for you. ”
In addition to writing, Gilbert is also a former 
member of the National Novel Writing Month Associate Board. NaNoWriMo is an annual event where authors of all levels and backgrounds attempt to write a 50,000-word novel over the course of November. “I love the idea of a culture of storytelling, the idea that every voice matters and every story matters and even if people don’t necessarily think of themselves as writers or professional writers, their 
stories are still so important and it’s great to have 
them in the world, ” she said of the event.
Calling for new voices in fiction and in publishing 
has remained an important part of Gilbert’s own goals and desires for the publishing industry at large, 
as well as a key influence on her work. When asked what she dislikes most about the publishing industry, she scarcely hesitated before speaking adamantly about the need for greater diversity.
“There are a lot of voices that have been 
traditionally marginalized and if you’re looking at the statistics of people in publishing based on sexuality or race or neurotypicality, there hasn’t traditionally been a lot of room for stories outside of what people think of as the norm, ” she said. “I think there’s been change happening there, so that’s exciting. ”
Writing beyond what audiences are used to 
is something she’s already done in her upcoming 
book, “Picture Us in the Light, ” by drawing on her 
childhood experiences in a majority-Asian area of Cupertino. “That’s not an experience I see reflected much in books, so I’m really excited about that aspect of it. It deals with the idea of generational trauma and sacrifice and secrets and art and how we respond to the things we care about so much that we can’t talk about them to anybody. ”
This latest book in particular was a laborious 
process. “Writing it was hell, ” Gilbert recalled, laughing. “It was really horrible. It took me three years. Everyone says that your second book is your hardest book and I really believe it. The election of 
2016 threw me off. The book deals with a family that 
is having some immigration issues and everything 
that was happening in the world was affecting what 
would happen in the scape of the story. ” The novel, set to come out April 10, 2018, tells the story of Danny Cheng, the artistic son of Chinese-American immigrants whose search for his family’s past reveals unexpected secrets that have the potential to change everything he’s ever known.
Despite the attendant trials and tribulations, 
Gilbert believes that having already written and 
published “Conviction” helped her with the creation 
of “Picture Us in the Light. ” She was able to draw from the advice of her publisher, agent, readers, and even other writers to create a stronger sense of what allows people to really connect with text. It’s this communication and diversity of experience and interpretation that makes writing the ultimately rewarding process that it is for Gilbert. “It’s out of 
your control, ” she mused. “Y ou can write the best 
book possible, but how people are going to read it 
is totally up to them. I think that’s part of what’s 
amazing about writing. ”
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRIS SILAS NEALA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKENDA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
It is the year 2049, and a lone officer 
trudges through desolation, searching 
for truth among sand and stone. 
Ominous synth echoes and reverberates as 
the scene unveils a paradise that once was. 
For a continuation to a story told 
more than three decades ago, the sequel to Ridley Scott’s “Blade Runner” could have easily rehashed the first installment. 
And yet, it manages to stay both true 
to the original and unique at the same time. Fans of the first film will appreciate 
the elegiac tone and slow-burning 
undercurrent of tension. But these nods to Scott’s original vision are heightened 
by director Denis Villeneuve’s greater 
focus on pathos, along with his flair for building narrative intensity. Here, slower beats fragment into chaotic high-
stakes action sequences, culminating 
into moments that are both brutal and filled with emotion. So if you’re worried 
that trailers make it look like a generic, 
action-oriented Hollywood blockbuster — don’t be. The core atmosphere of the first film is still there, and the overarching aesthetic is undeniably “Blade Runner. ”
At the same time, violence has its 
consequences, and blood only leads to more blood. A “blade runner” is a hunter. They track down synthetic humans, 
known as Replicants, gone rogue, and 
then “retire” them by killing them. In a world where data can be romanced and androids are either hunted down or used 
as tools to gory ends, the short-lived life of 
a Replicant is subject to even more moral scrutiny. In “Blade Runner 2049, ” 30 years 
after the first film, artificial humans are 
still viewed as something lesser. But if they look like us, think like us, and experience 
emotion like us, at what point do we 
consider them human? At what point do we consider them you or me? The writing here goes deeper than the first 
film, depicting the more complex — and 
troubling — consequences of emotional capacities in technology. Even more, 
it illustrates the societal and religious 
ramifications that come with our creations.
Villeneuve thus presents us with a 
future in which these questions are real and tangible, intersecting within a lived-in world that wrestles with these concepts. 
The world he portrays is a tapestry of 
color; light and dark, neon cyberpunk and grimy noir, all intertwined. There 
is a sense of progression as well: The 
technology is higher, the cities are dirtier, and the Replicants are realer in both body and mind. This intricate tapestry serves as 
the backdrop for Officer K’s story, a young 
blade runner trying to unravel the truth behind a disturbing mystery. His journey 
is a simple one, but the themes are not. 
Existentialism and humanism form the nerves of this film, and their convergence 
channels a brooding tale of love, loss, and 
discovery. K’s journey is for himself, but its ripples extend to the rest of humanity.
With the advent of complex deep 
learning and our gradual progression towards true artificial intelligence, these themes are becoming increasingly 
relevant. More notably, they’ve become 
culturally popular. Take “Westworld” or “Ex Machina” for example, both of which deal with the consequences of creating artificial humans. Or even Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk’s dire warnings 
about the inevitable singularity, wherein 
artificial intelligence transcends humanity. AI in itself is becoming a rapidly popular 
topic to bring up. Yet among the recent 
deluge of media and science-fiction that have tackled these ideas (some great, some not so much), “Blade Runner 2049” 
manages to hold its own quite well. It 
doesn’t wax philosophical by tossing these concepts at your face, or flaunt itself 
as a blatantly cerebral science thriller. 
Instead, its ideas are more understated, drawn into the veins and heart of the film.
In the end, the film provides us with 
some potential closure to these nagging questions: What makes us sentient? What makes us human? Why are we human? 
Perhaps it’s not the answers that 
matter, but that we even exist at all.
 
—   Derek Deng
Senior Staff WriterHaunting soundscapes and immersive cinematography form the nucleus of this enthralling story.FILM  REVIEW
BLADE  RUNNER  2049
Directed By   Denis Villeneuve
Starring  Ryan Gosling, Robin Wright, Ana de Armas, Dave Bautista
Release Date  Oct. 6, 2017
Rated  R A
PHOTO COURTESY OF WARNER BROS.
Follow us on
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
No, not beef with broccoli, a beef with blue pepper. 
For 10 years, Hi Thai has faithfully served plates of pad thai and the like to patrons 
of every palate. But alas, the cornerstone pantheon of the Old Student Center has passed the crown to its new successor, Blue Pepper. Though with nearly the same menu offerings, the only thing Blue Pepper really gets to boast about is the new, and 
appropriate, blue tile adorning this counter eatery.
The food itself falls between the categories of “saving grace from Pines’ stir fry 
station” and “wishing this was Lemongrass instead. ” Like any other cafeteria whose 
only goal is to appease the insatiable college student, portions and pricing compensate where flavor might fall. The classic pad thai is appetizing enough, but it’s mostly a mass of rice noodles with pieces of poultry strategically placed throughout to ensure there is a hint of protein every five bites. It is classically garnished with peanuts and scallions 
and served alongside a deceptive chili powder that should come with a precautionary 
waiver. The vegetarian egg rolls are what a California standardized test might call above average, with the accompanying sauce pushing it into the proficient range. And the Thai iced coffee has enough potency to give even the drowsiest of 3:30 lectures a vibe that mirrors the electric daisy carnival. 
But here’s the beef.There is no personal qualm with Hi Thai being unoriginally substituted by Blue 
Pepper, but there is a small, internal frustration to see Asian cuisine consistently essentialized into plates of pad thai or a basket of dumplings. If Hi Thai is named as such with the attempt to stick with integrity and serve Thai dishes — though 
arguably limited in authenticity — there might be some level of diluted legitimacy to 
the gastronomy being presented. But if Blue Pepper is going to be sub-categorized as “ Asian cuisine, ” then boba tea be spilled. 
When the general populace connects terms “ Asian” and “food” together, the mind maps out images of General Tso’s chicken, salmon skin rolls, Korean BBQ, and perhaps a bowl of pho. What Blue Pepper offers perpetuates this generalization of what Asian cuisine looks like. In this culinary field, where does nam tok, banh xeo, tteokbokki, jalebi, dinuguan, or rendang have a plate? Considering that the continent of Asia itself has 48 countries — all of which are uniquely individual in culture, language, tradition, 
people, histories, and ideologies — it is rather shameful to consolidate entire people, 
groups, and clusters of countries into a takeout box of chow mein. And in doing so, there adds a silent layer of how we come to believe what qualifies as being “ Asian” or not.
Granted, there could be a plethora of reasons why Blue Pepper chose to be 
identified as “ Asian cuisine, ” but its culinary fare excludes a wide range of what Asian cuisine entails. Blue Pepper is good at what it prepares, but “Chinese long donut” 
and “Panang beef curry over rice” simply cannot voice the diverse complexity and 
geographical expanse of what “ Asian cuisine” encompasses. 
And it’s not just Blue Pepper. If Panda Express is going to call orange chicken 
authentic Chinese food and if Taco Bell is deeming refried beans and ground beef sandwiched between two tortilla shells as Mexican pizza, there should be more precaution as to how food is internalized and how this has the potential to dilute not just the cuisine, but entire cultures. 
Blue Pepper will nonetheless be a hotspot for quick, affordable eats and the 
commuter’s solace. And sure, this review glazes over much of the history and is perhaps more analytical than need be, but a bite of the chicken unleashed a bit of beef. Though my brother and I are only four years apart, it seems like we’ve grown up in two separate 
eras — two separate worlds. 
I was raised in the Philippines. On Sundays, we first went to church, and then had lunch with 
my dad’s side of the family before speeding across town to dinner with my mom’s side. At parties, 
I was the little baby that was handed off to distant titos and titas and cousins, the little girl that 
everyone wanted to play with. Tagalog trickled into my ears and words — “anak, bahay, mahal” — ingrained themselves into the crevices of my brain. My mother used to say that I could navigate Manila from my car seat, peering out the tinted windows at the roads and buildings in front of me, complaining that we were headed in the opposite direction from home. 
My brother was transplanted into California at the ripe age of two. He grew up with my mom 
and me in a quiet house in the suburbs. He speaks English, and only English. His favorite food is 
a burger. He is as American as you can get — from the mannerisms, slang, clothing — to even a 
sense of independence and confidence that you don’t really see in my collectivist mother and me. 
I always knew we were two different kids with two different personalities. However, I don’t 
think I truly saw the cultural divide between us until we made our trip to the Philippines this summer. 
First, there exists a socioeconomic hierarchy in the Philippines that doesn’t exist in America. 
Skyscrapers overshadow shacks, a visual representation of the few rich looming over the hundreds of thousands of poor. Those who can afford it definitely show it — designer clothing, lavish houses, frequent getaways. Everyone knows their place, and self-starters come few and far in-between. 
Climbing the ladder takes work. 
My brother, like a true American, believes in the idea of equality. He doesn’t understand why 
some people aren’t offered the same opportunities as others. In America, the social status you were 
born into doesn’t have to be the status that you end in. He was raised with the concept of fairness in mind and was never exposed to everything different.  
Family is also a major element of Philippine culture. Sons and daughters are expected to care 
for their parents when they are older. I never complain when I have to attend an event, no matter how boring or how tedious, because I was raised that you do so for the sake of family. No matter how many times your relatives ask you how school is or if you have a significant other yet, you 
answer politely. 
My brother is different. He questions why we have to spend so much time with our grandparents 
when we’re in Manila and chooses to sit on the bed in his room and play video games instead. He 
often doesn’t speak with respect, reverting instead to the colloquialisms that are commonly heard among American high schoolers. Usually, we greet our elders with a kiss on the cheek when they come into the room, but I noticed that as my cousins and I stood up from the table to do so, he sat quietly, unsure. 
I think the biggest difference between us is that, when we moved, I chose to keep Philippine 
culture as a major part of my identity. At nights, sometimes I’ d sit with my mom as she watched 
“teleseryes” and attempted to pick up on the language, challenging myself to learn more Tagalog. I 
tagged along on trips to the Asian grocery store — taking forever to choose which Filipino dessert I wanted that night, helping pick out the best live crabs for our dinner that night. For some reason, I wasn’t bothered by the fishy smell — it reminded me of home, in an odd way. 
My brother never did any of that, and Filipino culture was something I never felt like he valued, 
because it wasn’t really something he ever had for himself. He was too young to ever remember living in the Philippines, and to him, it seems the Philippines is more like a vacation, somewhere to go to visit cousins and the beach but not somewhere he’s ever considered home. He is Filipino, yes, but only by blood, not really by active choice. 
It exists a little in him. His face lights up at the sight of bangus and rice. He’s expressed interest 
in joining the Filipino club at his high school. He likes to joke that he knows the phrase “Tigas ng ulo, ” (Hard-headed), because it’s said to him so often. 
I only hope that he grasps on to the little of the Philippines he has left and chooses to let it grow 
and blossom before it leaves him for good. I hope he understands where I’m coming from when I urge him to help our mom in the kitchen, hoping that the recipes will somehow stick to him in the same way that the scents of garlic and star anise and bay leaves stick to our clothes. I hope that he understands where I’m coming from when I force “pinakbet” or “kare-kare” onto his plate, making him try Filipino food after food even though he’s argued with me that he doesn’t like it — maybe his taste buds have had a change of heart. I hope he understands where I’m coming from when I ask him to stare out the car windows at Manila with me, pointing out structures and buildings that I’ve half-remembered from my youth in an effort to attach meanings to the nameless streets and alleys he’s seeing. 
Because, at the end of the day, that’s where he comes from, too. 
Inspired by my recent trip to the Philippines, Tales of a Philippine Life is a weekly column exploring 
culture, family, mindsets, home, and more. If you have a response to one of my pieces, feel free to send 
it along to lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org.  
By Annika Olives // Lifestyle EditorTales of a Philippine Life: 
Brother from Another CultureILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG
A Beef with Blue Pepper
By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Associate EditorA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
ultrazonesd
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE  
NIGHT ” 
Thursday — 
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LASER TAG!
LASER TAG!
COLLEGE  
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LATE NIGHT  
at the ZONE 
Friday & Saturday — 
Midnight to 2am
20% OFF   your event!
 20
% OFF
   
 % OFF
   % OFF
 your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.comUCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
Wanna Hook Up?
...Uh, with sic deals that is.
Visit www.ultrazonesandiego.com!
Follow us 
on all platforms!@ucsdasceThe connection of one’s self to their culture can undoubtedly be significant to 
their sense of identity. Understandably, being part of a specific culture and being 
interconnected with others who share the same pride and spirit is exhilarating. It is like 
the red string of fate — while all members are not destined to meet, they are consciously bound by something that resonates within them. Connection to culture provides foundation, and most importantly, a semblance of what home could be for someone.
But what happens when something severs that connection? The red ties cut so deep 
that they may seem irreparable. The edges are so faded and foreign that it is almost confusing as to where they start. The string simply flows aimlessly in the wind, lifeless, 
and desperate for an attachment it is not sure was real to begin with.
Before I continue on, let it be noted that all emotions and opinions described in the 
next few paragraphs are directly reflective of my own experiences in a Western-centric 
home. While Westernization is an issue that needs to be addressed, I am in no way speaking for all Filipinos or any person of color who has (or has not been) affected by it. There are varying perspectives on this issue, and in no way should my own individual journey be a representation of the majority.
When I was young, I unconsciously held onto the tiny connection to my Filipino 
heritage like it was a lifeline. The only place it was allowed to flourish was my 
grandparents’ house — where my “papa, ” “memama, ” and “bemama” lived. I was bathed 
with a “tabo, ” introduced to “bibingka” and “biko, ” and taught of a variety of phrases in Tagalog that are now lost from my tongue. It was something that was so enriching, yet as a six-year-old child, I took it for granted how quickly it would fade. It was different when my mom returned from her last day of work and took us to our residence an hour away. It was different in the way that this residence showed no essence of Filipinx livelihood — no traditional food, clothing, or language. Nothing familiar like a home should feel. It was different adjusting to such a setting in which I was no longer residing at my memama’s house almost six days a week. In a way, the Western environment was 
foreign in ways my immature brain could not understand, and I would not be able to 
until many years later.
This sudden shift caused something in my growth that I only just recently began 
to understand: It severely weakened my cultural ties. Born to a white man and being indoctrinated into a Western white culture so rapidly has had a culturally significant impact. It is the blade that sharpens against the red string, working at it slowly in ways that may appear innocuous. In reality, it is destructive and cold-hearted, snapping at the thread incessantly until nothing remains of the connection that was once there.
Westernization is something that relishes in severing cultures; working in tandem with the remnants of colonization, it aims to wash away the connections to individual heritage, so that we may be just as alone as we feel when we notice our own distinctions 
from Western white culture. It teaches us that pale skin is convention and that the 
Western world has no place for features that are non-Eurocentric. Disconnected from our roots, we are settled to redefining our identity on our own.
Growing up in a sheltered, white-washed setting fragmented my identity. It made me 
hate my thick, frizzy hair that curled generously from the base of my head to the middle of my knees (like the red ties, it was lost in the second grade when I was taken to the hair salon to have it cut and straightened). It made me hate my own features, made me 
wonder why I did not have the “beautiful” sharp edges or decorative bright eyes of my 
white friends. It made me hate the heritage I was so engrossed in when I was young, making me subdue its entire existence for a more “typical” suburban family experience. There were no more shared cooking sessions of Filipino dishes, or the casual slip of Tagalog in the middle of a conversation. If anything, it was colorless in a “home” that was supposed to be vibrant.
While I may never be able to fix the bonds severed, the journey to redefine myself 
in Filipinx culture has allowed me to understand and appreciate more of myself than ever before. 
I adore my unruly hair, thick nose, and tan skin. I plan to study Tagalog over the 
next few years to make up for the lost exposure. Just recently, a couple of friends and myself were lucky enough to represent the Philippines in an economic summit project that was hosted at our school. For the first time in nearly 11 years, I had spoken Tagalog and worn traditional attire with my Filipino friends that brought me back to the days at my grandparents’ household. 
For the first time in so long, the red strings were beginning to reconnect.Decolonizing one’s own mind and attitudes will break the chains of white 
Westernization that have been holding onto Filipinx identity for so long. This especially 
goes out to those who might not be as Eurocentric-passing as most other mixed Filipinx, 
who are still being affected from the aftermath of Western influence. 
In time, things will begin to heal, and while the act of rebuilding is jagged and often 
discouraging, the effort put into rebuilding yourself culturally is worth everything. 
As a revived Filipina, I would do anything for it.Lost in Translation: 
The White-Washed Filipinx
By Elizabeth Adams // Lifestyle WriterFALL 2017
M: 9am-12pm
Tu: 1pm-5pm
W: 11:30am-2pm
Th: 9am-5pm
F: 11:30am-4pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
Whether you study anthropology or zoology or
anything in between, learn what it takes to bringthe latest news to your fellow UCSD Tritons.
RECRUITMENT •1 0/1 2
STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 2 • 6:30 PM
 Free Pizza, People, and Plenty of Paper.
APPLY NOW, ROLLING APPLICATIONS!
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ACADEMY OF ST. MARTIN IN THE FIELDSTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 9 - OCT 152017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN10.13 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org1pm
EDUCATIONCORPS INFORMATION 
SESSION - PC WEST, RED SHOE 
ROOM
EducationCorps is looking for volunteers, of all 
majors, to serve as tutors and mentors . Our 
program has been on campus for five years and 
works diligently to provide schools with passionate volunteers who want to bridge the gap in high need low-income schools. Don't have transportation? That's no problem, we provide shuttles services to our 12 school site locations. Still interested? Come to our information sessions and visit our website for more information. Contact: educationcorps@ucsd.edu.
3:30pm
NO MORE NO MORE - A HUMAN 
TRAFFICKING AWARENESS PROGRAM - ATKINSON HALL
Opening Speaker: Pradeep K. Khosla, UC San 
Diego Chancellor. Keynote Speaker: Carrie Hessler Radelet, President & CEO of Project Concern International (PCI). Contact: jmatsuda@ucsd.edu
7pm
CALPIRG KICKOFF MEETING - RED 
SHOUE ROOM, 2ND FLOOR PRICE CENTER WEST
Kickoff meeting of CALPIRG student group. 
CALPIRG is UC San Diego's students' public interest group. We target at social and environmental issues and try to get real results. This quarter, we are running five campaigns: 100% Renewable Energy, Ban Fracking, Save the Bees, Save the Pell Grand, and Amazon Crude. If you want to make a difference and make our world a better place, if you are interested in these campaigns; if you want to make new friends, please come join us in our kickoff meeting event. Contact: yil984@ucsd.edu12pm
FIRST STEPS TO STUDY ABROAD - 
UCSD STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Join a professional advisor to learn the basics to 
studying abroad and what you need to do to prepare for your study abroad adventure. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
6pm
REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT 
MAJOR - INFORMATION SESSION - SSB 107
The Urban Studies and Planning Program will be 
offering a new major and minor degree in Real Estate and Development (RED) beginning in Fall 2018. This is the first degree of its kind in the UC system and will provide a comprehensive study of the many dimensions of real estate and development.  Come meet the faculty and learn more about the program! If you have any questions, please contact Professor Mirle Bussell. Contact: mbussell@ucsd.edu
7pm
COMEDY UNSCRIPTED WITH 
PROFESSOR RANDY HAMPTON - THE LOFT
Want to laugh the night away with some free 
stand-up comedy? Come out to The Loft and watch your peers perform stand-up at COMEDY UNSCRIPTED, hosted by Professor Randy Hampton. FREE for UCSD Students. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu10am
DIGITAL MEDIA LAB OPEN HOUSE - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, EAST COMMONS (2ND FLOOR)
Students, faculty, and staff are invited to the 
Library's Digital Media Lab (DML) Open House on Tuesday, October 10 from 10:00 am to 5:00 pm. Get up to speed on the latest technology tools at the DML and learn how its resources and services can support you! Contact: smcavoy@ucsd.edu
1pm
ILEAD ORIENTATION - STUDENT 
LEADERSHIP CHAMBERS, 4TH LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER EAST
If you have ever wondered, how does iLead work? 
Or asked, what do you mean I need a stamp card? Or been confused about which model of leadership this program uses, this session is for you! Attend the iLead orientation to gain an understanding of how the program works, meet other students, and learn the basics of the Social Change Model. While iLead Orientation is mandatory before completing the program, only 1 stamp will be given for your participation in iLead Orientation. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
6pm
FIRST OFFICIAL FALL 2017 
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
- PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Do you want to learn a language FOR FREE with 
an amazing community?UC San Diego 
International House presents this year's first 
Language Conversation Tables (LCT)! LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs and this year they'll occur every Tuesday at 6pm! Come to learn and practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Everybody (from any language level) is welcome! Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
10:30am
FIRST STEPS TO STUDY ABROAD - 
UCSD STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
**Special Saturday Event!** Join a professional 
advisor to learn the basics to studying abroad and what you need to do to prepare for your study abroad adventure. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
8pm
TRITION FEST - ASCE PRESENTS: 
POOLSIDE CINEMA - CANYONVIEW POOL
Dive into a night of cinematic entertainment and 
delicious food at Poolside Cinema! Munch on tasty treats and enjoy a double-feature of Disney's Moana and Marvel’s Spiderman: Homecoming while chilling in a floatie or lounging poolside. Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu1:30pm
ART & SOUL AT THE ZONE! - THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Questions? Contact The Zone at via email or call (858) 534-5553. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
2pm
HOW TO STUDY LESS AND 
REMEMBER MORE - MANDLER 
HALL, CRICK CONFERENCE ROOM 
(3RD FLOOR, RM 3545 )
Unlock the straight-A student within you! At 
this workshop, we'll reveal study strategies -- uncovered by learning scientists -- that help you learn MORE information in LESS time. These strategies work for all types of classes. Contact: scp008@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
UCSD GUARDIAN RECRUITMENT - 
THE GUARDIAN ( OLD STUDENT 
CENTER, 2ND FLOOR)
Want to connect with campus in a fresh and 
intimate way? Come to the Guardian's recruitment event! We are UCSD's student-run newspaper and we want to feature your voice! Open to *ALL* majors, our six award-winning writing sections--News, Opinion, Arts & Entertainment, Lifestyle, Features, and Sports--give you the opportunity to perfect your writing skills, learn how to adapt to a wide variety of tones, and build a strong portfolio for your future employers. And we have non-writing opportunities too! From data visualization to photography to copy editing, we've got it all. Free pizza, people, and plenty of paper. Come join the fun! Contact: development@ucsdguardian.org6pm
UCSD MEN’S WATER POLO VS. AIR 
FORCE - CANYONVIEW POOLS
Come support your UCSD Men's Water Polo team 
as they take on Air Force! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
7pm
UCSD WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL VS. 
CAL POLY POMONA - RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Women's as they take 
on Cal Poly Pomona! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
9pm
TRITON FEST - COMEDY NIGHT - PC 
WEST BALLROOM
Grab a bite, take a seat and get ready to laugh 
till it hurts at this year's Comedy Night featuring an opening act by UCSD's very own student comedy group, Comedy on Campus, and a headlining act by stand-up comedian Jamie Lee. Contact: faantonio@ucsd.eduTUE10.10
THU10.12
SAT10.14MON 10.9
FRI10.13WED10.11Conrad Prebys Concert HallFRIDAY
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
DID YOU KNOW?
OCT 11National Bring Your Teddy
Bear to Work/School DayCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classiﬁeds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Map book
6. Barn’s neighbor10. Many (2 wds.)
14. Wild animal
15. Baby bed
16. Letter opener17. Cowboy’s rope18. Pelvic joints
19. Poker term
20. Basic natures
22. Be against24. Paper measure25. Bed support
26. Endure
29. Car franchise
34. Picnic pests35. Shopping bag36. Refreshing drink
37. SSW’s opp.
38. Paid for everyone
41. Struggle42. Average grade43. Satan’s domain44. Swimming spot45. Lab activity49. Play divisions50. Lions’ lairs51. Yours and mine53. Dodges56. Tubular pasta60. Long skirt61. Greek god63. Roman gown64. Enlightened one’s words (2 wds.)65. Govern66. Cease-fire67. Williams and Kennedy68. Golf pegs69. Positive answersDOWN
 1. Skilled2. Oolong and pekoe3. Girl
4. Declares
5. Pebble
6. Plot7. Spring bloom8. Mouth part
9. Out-of-date
10. Conforms
11. Carson’s successor12. Cereal grains13. Forest plant
21. Scoundrel
23. Peeled
25. Narrow opening26. Jousting weapon27. Building addition
28. Make tea
30. “____ of Two Cities” (2 wds.)
31. Great destruction32. Fool33. Pares38. Trio number39. Put in again40. Graceful trees44. Grazing ground46. Whirlpools47. Sounds48. Harbor boat52. Shabby53. Discharge54. Urn55. Cut down56. Part57. Responsibility58. Kind59. Summer treats62. Feel regreHOUSING
Costa Verde Village- $1800-$3525. 8720 
Costa Verde Boulevard, San Diego, CA 
92122. We welcome you to visit our luxury community in the beautiful La Jolla/UTC 
area of San Diego, California. Costa Verde 
Village has everything to offer including 
studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes that include full size washers 
and dryers, central air and heat, private 
balconies and patios, modern kitchen with pantry and in select homes we have fire -
places available. Costa Verde Village offers 
spacious floor plans, fitness center, billiards 
and game room, refreshing swimming 
pool with spa, playground and planned resident activities. You are convenient to La 
Jolla beaches, UCSD, UTC Mall, and much 
more.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
La Scala Apartment Homes- $1695 -$2485. 
3845 Nobel Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. 
Ideally located in San Diegos Golden Triangle, La Scala Apartments offers you 
quality, comfort, convenience, and value. Our newly renovated apartments include 
updated, cabinets, appliances, lighting, 
paint colors, and flooring. Enjoy a dip in our 
resort style pool, a soothing Jacuzzi, land -
scaped courtyards and soothing fountains. State of the art cardio and weight equip -
ment is ready for your use. Stay connected in our Internet Lounge. Stop by for a tour. 
Wed love to show you around!...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Villa Mesa Apartments - $1375-$1695. 7366 
Mesa College Dr, San Diego, CA 92111. At 
Villa Mesa you’ll experience the best of 
both worlds. Conveniently located just min -
utes from major freeways, shopping, Mesa College and entertainment our beautifully 
landscaped setting provides the perfect 
retreat for your active lifestyle. Choose one 
of our two bedroom spacious floor plans 
that have been thoughtfully designed with 
careful attention to detail. Each apartment 
home offers a fully equipped kitchen, air 
conditioning and so much more. Pamper 
yourself in luxury living at Villa Mesa 
Apartments. Take advantage of our won -
derful recreational amenities that includes a sparkling pool and more.. Come and 
visit us at Villa Mesa Apartments in San 
Diego….. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
JOB LISTINGS
LA Jolla High School Physics Tutor Jobs. 
San Diego, CA 92130. Tutors set their own schedules, choose the opportunities that 
interest them, and can tutor in-person or 
online….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Associate Attorney. Poway, CA 92064. 
Lorber, Greenfield & Polito-Litigation 
Attorney with 1-5 years experience. Insurance Defense for developers in 
Construction Defect Litigation; also 
Casualty/Personal Injury: Construction Risk. Must be a licensed attorney…...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Physics Tutor Needed for HS student. 
Rancho Santa Fe, CA 92067. Mili Smythe. Need a tutor for my senior student-taking AP physics at CCA.Hourly rate negotiable. 
Come to house preferred but she can meet 
at library or other public space.…... ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionAUTO
2016 Lexus RX 350. San Diego, CA. 2016 
Lexus RX350 Black exterior, Black leather seats, 19k miles, single owner, Clean Carfax, 
Super Clean Car, Must come to take a 
look, Navigation, Satelite Radio and much more!!! Priced right to sell fast at $38,495.00 
Call or Text 1 of our sales reps 619.508.
XXXX or 619.230.XXXX Main Sales Office 
619.230.XXXX Cali Motors USA offers only 
the very best pre-owned cars, trucks, and 
SUVs in the San Diego area. Give us a call at 619-230-XXXX, or stop by and visit us at 
5909 Mission Gorge Rd…..ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2014 Toyota RAV4 LE. San Diego, CA. single 
owner Carfax certified low mileage LE Ed. 
El Cajon Mitsubishi is pleased to include a twelve month/12000mis powertrain war-
ranty on all its non-Mitsubishi qualified 
Certified Used vehicles. Our used vehicles 
have undergone a rigid pre-scr.... ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Used 2013 Volkswagen CC 2.0T Sport 4D 
Sedan. San Diego, CA 92108. Looking for an amazing value on a wonderful 2013 
Volkswagen CC? Well, this is IT! So go ahead 
and feel free to flex your muscle in this car. 
It will go from 0-60 in just about the same time itll take you to catch your breath. 
This CC is nicely equipped with features 
such as *AutoCheck Buy Back Protection*, 
*AutoCheck Clear title History Report*, 
and *We Purchased this Vehicle from the 
Previous Owner*...... ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Want to see UCSD
and San Diego like
never before?
JOIN THE
GUARDIAN
student journalism, professional publication.
With the Guardian’s seven content sections, writers gain access to the wide array of live concerts, to interviews with 
UCSD staff and students, to restaurants throughout San Diego! Staff writers receive the opportunity to be published 
regularly with a committed staff that fosters clear, coherent and creative writing. A professional portfolio — 
whether you are intending to showcase your artwork, design, photography or writing — comes hand-in-hand with joining the Guardian. And these attainable assets are applicable to any year of your undergraduate career and all majors, whether you study anthropology or zoology or anything in between. The Guardian depends on a professional work ethic to have the publication successfully print weekly, meaning reporters become synonymous with effective communication skills and punctuality. Learn what it takes to bring the latest news to your fellow UCSD Tritons.
Most importantly, the Guardian is student-run. Your campus, your ideas, your voice.
Along with the Guardian’s content sections are the equally enriching non-content sections:
ADS, ART, DATA VISUALIZATION, COPY , DESIGN & PHOTONEWS OPINION FEATURESARTS & ENTERTAINMENTLIFESTYLE SPORTS & MULTIMEDIA
ucsdguardian.org
ucsdguardianRECRUITMENT MEETING  • 1 0/1 2
STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 2 • 6:30 PM
 Free Pizza, People, And Plenty Of P aper.what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withIn their last regular season 
performance, both the UC San Diego 
men and women cross country teams earned top-two finishes at the 
25th annual Triton Classic. The men 
earned the top spot of the 8k race, while the women were just edged out by No. 19 Cal Poly Pomona in the 6k.
Senior Garrett Lepine was the top 
Triton finisher for the men, earning a 
podium spot. He came in at third in a time of 26:29.4, and his strong race was completed by three more top-10 finishes for the No. 23 UCSD Tritons. 
Sophomore Timothy Corvese 
finished fifth in 26:35.7, freshman 
Elijah Horwitz came in right behind in 26:46.7, and junior Garrett Boulais placed ninth in 27:03.8. 
The women’s team, despite settling 
for second in the team race, had the individual race winner in their ranks. Senior Ella Verhees, who has had a tremendous season with her third top-10 finish of the season. The clear 
leader of the team, with her fourth consecutive top finish for UCSD, she 
was accompanied by junior Karina 
Carstens (22:37.5) who finished ninth 
and senior Kristin Semancsin who 
finished 10th.
With the regular season now 
over, UCSD will now prepare for the California Collegiate Athletic Association Championships on Oct. 21 in Turlock.
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduBY MARCUS THUILLIER
Managing Editor
Tritons Finish Season 
at Triton Classic
UC San Diego now looks forward to the CCAA Championships.The UC San Diego men’ s soccer 
team secured first place in its league 
after two tight home games this week 
against conference competitors Cal State San Marcos and San Francisco State.
UC San Diego vs. Cal State San Marcos 
– Wednesday, Oct. 4 (La Jolla, CA)
The Tritons came out attacking 
Wednesday night, recording seven  
shots on goal in the first half alone. The 
game remained scoreless through the first 60 minutes until UCSD freshman 
striker Jonathan Sabouri executed his third goal of the year, tying a team high. Assisted by redshirt senior mid fielder 
Steven Ortiz, Sabouri nailed the top of the net from 20 yards out.
The Tritons dominated possessions 
as the ball remained on their side of the field for a majority of the second 
half. Eight more shots on goal from five 
additional Tritons supplied continuous pressure against the Cougar defense.
A strong Triton barricade 
composed of redshirt junior defender Jeff Powers as well as senior defenders Nolan Mac and Kyle Panganiban secured the 1–0 victory over Cal State San Marcos. Freshman goalie Pedro Encisco collected five saves on the night 
increasing his total to 28 this season.
On top of their successful outing, 
the Tritons’ triumph marked head coach Jon Pascale’ s 100th career win. In his 10 years at UCSD, Pascale has earned California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Coach of the Year honors 
three times and looks to return his players to the NCAA Final Four to 
overcome a close semi- final defeat just 
one year ago.
UC San Diego vs. San Francisco State – 
Friday, Oct. 6 (La Jolla, CA)
UCSD celebrated eight seniors 
before battling it out on the pitch against SFSU on Friday night.
With no score a fter the first half 
as well as further into the second, the Tritons controlled the momentum for the remaining minutes of regulation. A crucial defensive miscue by the Gators late in the game led to the first and only 
goal for UCSD at 79:53.
Sabouri was le ft wide open in 
front of the net with the ball between himself and the Gator goalie. A spectacular center from the right side by the freshman allowed redshirt senior forward Malek Bashti to find the back 
of the net easily with a quick tap in.  
Both Sabouri and Powers were 
credited with assists. Bashti tallied his second goal of the season, coming in clutch during his last regular season match in front of a home crowd at Triton Soccer Stadium.
UCSD led in shots (12–10) and 
corner kick possessions (9–5).
However, the Tritons could 
not hang on as minutes later SFSU 
answered back. Gators’ junior defender 
Tariq Pulskamp scored on a corner kick opportunity, heading the ball into the bottom right corner, sending the game into overtime.
After two 10-minute overtime, 
sudden-death periods, the matchup ended in a draw sending the Tritons to an overall 7–1–4 and a 5–1–2 in CCAA standings.
The Tritons will wrap up the 
2017-2018 season with their last five 
conference games on the road. They are 
set to play Humboldt State on Friday, Oct. 13. Kicko ff begins at 3 p.m.
 Midweek Win and Senior Night Draw 
UC San Diego men’s soccer is now the sole posessor of the first place position in conference play.
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
MEN'S SoccerBY Madeline Lewis
Contributing Writer
cross country
PHOTO COURTESY OF FRANCESCA HUMMLERPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSThe UC San Diego women’s soccer 
team hosted two more matches 
this week as a part of its four-game home stand and did not disappoint, grabbing another two victories 
to continue its perfect season in 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association. With a 1–0 win against both Cal State San Marcos and San Francisco State, the Tritons improve to 11–2 overall, with a perfect 8–0 record in conference play. The two 
wins on the week extends their win streak to eight, with the last four matches being 1–0 victories — a feat that speaks volumes about the 
Triton defense. More remarkably, 
the Triton defense has only allowed one single goal in the eight matches of conference play. We will have to wait and see if they can continue their outstanding form as the CCAA Tournament approaches. But for now, they hold the top spot in the conference and deservedly so.  
Game v. Cal State San Marcos
The Tritons got o ff to a great 
start as they able were to capitalize in the third minute of the match to go up 1–0. Similarly to last week’s match against Cal Poly Pomona, the scoring opportunity came from a set piece and from the same boot for the service. Off a corner kick, junior midfielder Summer Bales sent the ball into the box and found 
the head of senior striker Katie 
O’Laughlin at the far post to give the Tritons the lead in the early minutes of the match. O’Laughlin’s strike partner, junior Mary Reilly almost put her name on the score sheet, but unfortunately could not convert on a couple of occasions in the first 
half. Reilly made an attempt on the goal in the 12th minute, but the San Marcos goalkeeper saved the shot 
to keep her team in the game. Not 
long after, in the 16th minute Reilly 
attempted a curling shot from the left side, but once again was saved by the goalkeeper to keep the dangerous striker at bay.  
Both sides had eight attempts on 
goal in the first half, however the 
Tritons were the only ones to make 
something out of them. Surely, they 
would have been thinking at the break that they should have been at least two or three up on the opponents. With a few minutes remaining in the first half, junior forward Megumi Barber attempted a free kick that unfortunately hit the crossbar, leaving her eff ort to add to the Triton lead 
unfulfi lled.  
In the second half, the Tritons 
buckled down on their defense and held San Marcos to only three shots in the half with only one going on target, but there was no real trouble for redshirt sophomore goalkeeper Angelica Ramos.  
Reilly would have loved to get her 
name on the score sheet, but it simply was not her day as she could not put the ball away in the back of net. In the second half, she attempted three 
shots to get that goal, however it was 
save after save from the opponent’s 
goalkeeper.  
UCSD ended the match with a 
14–11 shot advantage, the early goal being the diff erence between the two.  
Game v. SF State
On Friday night, UCSD took on 
SFSU on Senior Night with a healthy 
crowd in attendance to take in the 
action. Introduced in the pre-game ceremony were the seven seniors, midfielder Elisa Martinez, midfielder Taylor Ramos, defender Brie Diaz, defender Aimee Ellis, forward Katie O’Laughlin, defender Makenzie Brito, and midfielder Jordyn McNutt.  
For huge chunks of the match, 
UCSD dominated and very well could have had plenty of goals on 
the scoreboard. If you look at the 
statistics, you see the one sided a ffair 
that took part in the opening 45 minutes as the Tritons had a 14–2 shot advantage. Somehow the score was still leveled at 0–0 going into the break.  
Standing out in the first half 
was Martinez in the midfield as she dominated the middle of the park with her composure on the ball and 
keeping her team ticking throughout 
the night. She was doing it all and  it seemed she could not be stopped. It was only fitting that on Senior Night 
a senior would get the goal for the Tritons and Martinez took it upon herself to give the Tritons the 1–0 lead. As UCSD was in the attacking third, Reilly took a shot from the top 
of the box, but was deemed a handball 
by the referee as it clearly hit the hand of the opponent in the penalty box. Then, Martinez beautifully placed the 
ball in the right upper corner, just out of reach of the goalkeeper. The scoreline would stay the same 
for the remainder of the night as the Tritons could not get another shot to extend the lead, even though they took 11 shots in the second half. The 
Gators got into the game much more in the second 45 minutes as they were to create some decent chances with nine shots in the half. The UCSD 
defense did just enough to keep its opponents out of the scoresheet and in doing so earned their eighth straight victory, while seemingly cruising through the regular season.  
Next up for the Tritons will be 
a road trip up north, as they travel 
to Humboldt State for their Friday 
match, Oct.13. Then on Sunday they 
will head to Sonoma State, a team also in peak form. Sonoma State has a 6–1 conference record, therefore it will be a matchup between the top two teams in the standings. We will have to see if the Triton defense can maintain its form against one of the top teams in 
conference.  SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
woMEN'S Soccer
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduTritons
StayHot!
UC San Diego wins another 
two games and remains a 
perfect 8-0 in conference play.
by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF ESRA ELHENDYHall of Fame Inducts FourThe Athletics Department inducted sports heroes from years 
past into the UCSD Athletics Hall of Fame on Sunday.
UC San Diego Athletics inducted 
four Tritons into the Hall of Fame on 
Sunday, October 8, 2017. So ftball, 
Swimming & Diving, Basketball, and Soccer, the four inductees came from di fferent disciplines, but all 
four of were living embodiments of excellence the UC San Diego athletics program is known for. 
The ceremony began by 
honoring the anniversaries of 
three championship teams: the 
1993 men’s golf team, the 1997 women’s volleyball team, and the 1997 women’s soccer team. These 
three teams were remembered for their championship runs and their contribution to the culture that underlies UC San Diego Athletics.
The first inductee, Dana Chaiken, 
played so ftball (1988–1991) and filled 
the record books during her stint as a Triton. Known as a consummate competitor, Chaiken still holds 12 top-10 records for UCSD so ftball. 
Quite an accomplishment.
Rosanna Delurgio, a Triton for 
UCSD Swimming & Diving from 2001–2005, was inducted next. 
Delurgio was an eight-time NCAA 
Division II national champion (six individual, two relay). Three times 
she swept the 100- and 200-yard breastroke national title (2003, 2004, and 2005). A paragon of excellence, Delurgio’s induction was more than fitting. 
Tim Rapp was up next for the 
Hall of Fame inductees. A bona-fide scorer, Rapp holds the highest 
scoring average (20.7) in the UCSD basketball record books. He scored 659 in the 1990–1991 season, a feat that puts him at No. 1 for total single-season points at UCSD. 
During his induction speech, 
Rapp expressed his love for the 
Triton family. To the Hall of Fame 
inductee, there were two critical decisions in life: where one went to college and who one married. Rapp made it clear to the people present that deciding to go to UCSD was the perfect decision. 
To conclude the ceremony, 
the Hall of Fame honored Derek 
Armstrong. Armstrong coached 
UCSD Men’s Soccer from 1982–2007, holding a career record of 326–148 (.684) over 26 seasons. Under his guidance, UCSD won three national championships (NCAA Division III 1988, 1991, and 1993). In 1988, the men’s team finished with its only 
undefeated season so far at 23–0–2. 
Armstrong truly was one of the most 
successful coaches to grace UC San Diego Athletics. 
RICHARD LU  RIL014@ucsd.eduby Richard Lu // Sports Editorial AssistantPHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY WILHELMUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
W Volleyball
Swim & Dive
W Volleyball
W Soccer10/1010/1310/1410/1410/157 PM7 PM
11 AM
7 PM
 11:30 AMCal State Dominguez HillsCal Poly PomonaBlue vs. Gold (exhibition)Cal State San BernardinoAT Sonoma State