VOLUME 50, ISSUE 37   MONDA Y , MA Y 14, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WHERE IS 
HOME?
GENDER, RACE, CULTURE, 
ILLNESS - ALL OF THESE HAVE 
BEEN TAUGHT AND ANALYZED 
TO BE FUNCTIONS OF SOCIAL 
CONSTRUCTS; IS HOME A NEW 
ONE? WE SURVEYED UCSD 
STUDENTS TO SEE WHAT THE 
FUNCTION  OF “HOME” IS.
RESPONDING TO SHARK S
BASEBALLKeeping surfers Safe
ccaa  runner-upOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  15
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“AT AGE FOUR, MY PARENTS 
GAVE ME LEGOS AND LINCOLN 
LOGS TO PLAY WITH, NOT 
BECAUSE I HAD EXPRESSED 
ANY INTEREST IN THEM, BUT 
BECAUSE THEY FELT LIKE IT 
WAS A GOOD TOY THAT ‘FIT’ 
MY PERSONALITY ... THESE 
THINGS WERE CHOSEN FOR 
ME WITH THE BELIEF THAT I 
WOULD BE ‘GOOD’ AT THEM”
- NATE WALKER
MISCALCULATED
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  ...2
HATE CRIME.....................4
FEATURES  ....................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. ROWING  ................... 16 lifestyle,  P AGE  10
ILLUSRTATION BY DALIDA RACHED
MONDAY
H 60 L 55TUESDAY
H 61 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 57THURSDAY 
H 68 L 57
A number of incoming freshmen 
have expressed frustration this 
past week at being moved from 
Muir College after submitting their 
statements of intent to register at UC 
San Diego. The official reasons for this 
change are currently unknown.
Since submitting their SIRs, some 
incoming students who were originally 
accepted into Muir College have 
received an email notifying them of 
their transfer to their second or third 
choice college. One email reads, “To 
ensure your experience [at UCSD] is 
the best it can be, we have assigned you 
to Thurgood Marshall College, which 
you had indicated as your second 
choice … on your application. Y our 
MyApplication portal should already reflect this change. ”
These students posted their 
complaints on a Facebook group 
meant to connect incoming freshmen 
at UCSD. 
“I’m extremely disheartened to 
see UCSD change our colleges since 
we SIR’ d under the impression of 
being in the college we were accepted 
for, ” incoming Earl Warren College 
freshman Michelle Lin told the UCSD 
Guardian.
A major frustration among these 
individuals is that they must now find 
new roommates after finalizing plans 
with other individuals in Muir College.
“Ever since my acceptance, I had 
been networking with many people 
in Muir, and I had found a home 
for myself, ” incoming Marshall 
College freshman Kayla Kim told the 
Guardian. “What bothers me the most is that UCSD tells me about the switch 
after Triton Day, after the SIR date and 
after I finalized who I was going to be 
living with [next year]. ”
Many of the incoming freshmen 
think that the reason for the change is 
because there is not enough space. The 
Guardian has reached out to UCSD 
Undergraduate Admissions and the 
University Communications and 
Public Affairs offices for comment, 
but they did not respond by time of 
publication.
Students are notified of their college 
of acceptance in their acceptance letter 
from UCSD and must submit their SIR 
by May 1.Contraception 
Innovation Wins 
UC Grad SlamUC SYSTEM
A graduate student presented 
his idea in 180 seconds for 
longer-acting birth control.
UC San Diego engineering student 
Geoff Hollett took third place in 
the annual UC Grad Slam, hosted 
at the LinkedIn headquarters in San 
Francisco on May 4. UCLA and UC 
Santa Cruz took first and second place 
respectively in the contest, which 
requires participants to communicate 
their research in 180 seconds.
Hollett is a PhD candidate in the 
materials science and engineering 
program and is working on 
developing a longer-acting injectable 
contraceptive with the Sailor Research 
Group. To make his research sound 
simple yet educational and engaging, 
Hollett focused on the geometry of 
contraceptive drugs. 
The current three-dimensional 
drug becomes less effective over time 
because the surface area decreases as 
it dissolves in a solution. To make it 
easier to conceptualize, Hollett told 
audience members to think about 
a sugar cube dissolving in a cup of 
coffee. By using a one-dimensional 
porous silicon wire instead, the drug 
can be released at a constant rate over 
a six-month period.
Each UC campus hosted their own 
Grad Slams between February and 
May, before the first place winners 
from each school squared off for the 
$10,000 prize money. The purpose 
of the Slam is for graduate students 
to develop communication skills and 
the ability to showcase their work to a 
larger audience. 
Graduate Adviser Shana Slebioda 
noted that the limited time required 
each presentation to be succinct but 
informational. Participants were 
judged accordingly.
“The talks are meant to be quick 
and engaging, no matter who is in the 
audience, ” Slebioda told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Students are judged on 
criteria such as clarity, delivery, visuals 
and intellectual significance. ”
Dean of the UCSD Graduate 
Division Kit Pogliano explained why 
public engagement is a crucial ability 
to develop.
“The ability to effectively 
communicate your work is a critical 
skill for graduate students to develop, 
whether they plan to pursue a career 
in academia, industry, government or 
other fields, ”  Pogliano said in a press 
release. “Grad Slam is an excellent 
opportunity for our students to 
practice these skills while also engaging 
the community in graduate student 
research and how it impacts society. ”
Although Hollett was able to 
condense his research to a three-
minute talk, he wishes he could convey 
the extended endeavor he and many 
others had to tackle.
“The thing that got lost the most 
in my presentation was the amount 
of work that goes into these projects, ” 
Hollett stated. “In my slides, I had 
two cartoons of idealized graphs 
when in reality this was a project that 
two graduate students and post-docs Seed + Sprout to Occupy D’Lush Space
Seed + Sprout will replace the vacant space 
where previous vendor D’lush was in Price 
Center. The project, headed by University 
Centers and the University Centers Advisory 
Board, is tentatively set to open in fall of 2018.
Hughston M. Hagues, the Assistant Director 
of Retail Operations at University Centers, 
explained the background of the new vendor to 
Price Center. 
“Seed + Sprout is a small, independent 
organization with restaurant experiences in 
Chicago and Africa, ” Hagues told the UCSD 
Guardian.
The restaurant’s goal is to create “Complete 
+ Delicious Nutrition in a fast effective format” 
through offering macro bowls in a variety of 
options such as breakfast meals and vegetarian 
options. 
“Seed + Sprout will fill the gap in efficient 
high-volume healthy food, ” reads the restaurant 
concept and service format. “Our purpose is clear, 
to offer delicious and healthy nourishment to the 
UCSD campus at a fair price. ”
The organization is keeping these principles 
in mind by offering convenient, customizable and 
balanced options for their bowls made with local, fresh ingredients.
D’Lush was evicted in June 2016 for failure to 
pay rent, thus opening the space to new vendors. 
Since then, UCEN and UCAB have been working 
closely to assess the needs of the student body and 
find a suitable vendor that will fulfill those needs.
UCAB Chair Luke Wang explained that they 
followed UCEN guidelines for vendor selection.
“When space 1605 (formerly D’Lush space) 
became available to University Centers, the board 
went ahead and decided a Request for Proposal 
concept for the space, ” Wang told the Guardian. 
“With the concept statement released to the 
public, all restaurants interested would submit 
their proposals to University Centers, which 
then gets scored and reviewed by a committee 
of UCAB. ”
Wang emphasized how the process was 
student-centered and driven.
“The proposal outlines [that we were looking 
for] a health conscious restaurant that would 
cater to the wide, diverse student needs at UC 
San Diego, ” he said. “The entire process from the 
concept statement to the final proposal review is 
done by students with an emphasis on putting the 
students’ needs first. ”B y Rebecca Chong  Staff WriterUNIVERSITY CENTERS
The dozens of incoming freshmen who were moved after SIRing were given no explanation why.CAMPUS
BY  J o s h  L e f l e r
Senior Staff Writer
BY M i n g - R a y  L i a o
Senior Staff Writer
Incoming Muir Students Transferred to Other Colleges
A speaker presents on Saudi Arabia at the International Cafe held at I-House.  Photo by Francesca Hummler//GuardianCAMPUS
See GRAND SLAM , page 3See SEED + SPROUT , page 3
josh  lefler  jlefler@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
By Michi Sora
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla(cannot be
combined)$100 OFF
$75FOR ONLYof any order over $550
10 mini burritos (you 
pick any 2), 10 cheese 
enchiladas, chips, salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce.$150FOR ONLY Large taco tray
(36 tacos), rice, 
beans, chips salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17EXP 7/5/17@ucsdguardian
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.orgC e re br a l  c av e r n ou s 
malformations are collections of 
small blood vessels in the brain that 
alter blood flow due to enlargement 
and irregular structure which are 
typically located in the white matter 
of the brain. The capillaries that 
form these irregular structures have 
abnormally thin, vulnerable walls 
prone to leaking and are lacking in 
supportive elastic fibers that make 
the vessels stretchy. When these thin 
vessels fill with blood and stretch 
out, they form “caverns” because the 
walls cannot spring back into normal 
shape. Cavernous malformations 
can occur anywhere in the body 
but usually only cause symptoms 
when located in the central nervous 
system. The condition can occur 
sporadically or be inherited as a 
dominant allele from an affected 
parent where children of one 
genetically-affected parent have a 
50 percent chance of developing 
CCMs. Sporadic cases will usually only develop one cerebral cavernous 
malformation whereas familial 
inheritance cases could show 
multiple different lesions. 
Mutations in the KRIT1, CCM2 
and PDCD10 genes can cause 
cerebral cavernous malformations. 
These specific genes are thought 
to interact with each other to 
strengthen cell interaction and 
prevent significant leakage from the 
blood vessels.The malformations 
can change over time, but they 
do not have the ability to become 
cancerous. As many as 25 percent 
of people with CCMs will never 
have any medical problems because 
of their CCMs. People who do 
show symptoms can experience 
serious effects including headaches, 
seizures, muscle weakness, sensation 
loss, paralysis, brain hemorrhaging 
and hearing or vision deficits. 
CCMs have been reported in infants 
and children, but the majority of 
cases diagnosed are in adults from 
ages 20 to 50 years old. 
Making diagnoses for a rare 
disease such as this one can be difficult, so physicians will typically 
look at symptoms, vitals, family 
history and various lab tests to 
make the prognosis. There are 
approximately 30 clinical tests 
that can help determine CCM 
diagnoses. For treatment of 
seizures, antiepileptic medication 
will be prescribed. If the medication 
does not reduce the seizing, there 
are lesions in an accessible part 
of the brain or recurring brain 
hemorrhaging, microsurgical 
techniques may be the best option 
of treatment. Depending on the 
severity of symptoms in each case, 
most people go into remission with 
relatively few fatalities caused by 
continuous hemorrhages. 
A study was recently published 
by Dr. Mark Kahn at University 
of Pennsylvania’s Perelman School 
of Medicine linking CCMs to 
gut bacteria. The study began to 
understand the development of the 
blood vessels by using mice as study 
subjects. A change in laboratory 
location identified a new component 
of defect development in the subject mice that suggested gut bacteria had 
influence on sporadic development 
of CCMs. The mice were having 
a specific gene deleted using 
injections into their abdomens and 
some developed abscesses which 
allowed the bacteria from the gut to 
move into their blood. Only these 
mice continued to develop CCMs 
while the other gene-deleted mice 
remained normal. The study has 
identified gram-negative bacteria 
that carry liposaccharides, large 
molecules consisting of lipids 
and polysaccharides,  which can 
signal veins in the brain to develop 
bubbles in the blood. Antibiotics 
that killed these bacteria prevented 
the development of the defect, 
and replacing the microbiomes 
of the mice prevented recurrence. 
The hope of those conducting the 
study is that it will eventually be 
possible to prevent predisposed 
infants from developing the defect 
by manipulating their microbiome.  Study Shows Cerebral Cavernous Malformation Linked to Gut BacteriaDISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY  R e v a t i    R as h i n g k a r
Staff Writer
Rev a ti   Rashingkar  rrashing@ucsd.eduThe condition results in enlarged and irregularly-structured blood vessels, which then leads to the alteration of blood flow.  
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Season Finale: RIP Rosina. She 
took Jose with her.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Co-Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Susanti Sarkar, Timothy Deng have been working on full-time for 
nearly three years and has generated 
thousands upon thousands of data 
points, images and graphs with still a 
lot more to come. ”
However, Hollett believes that 
a shorter presentation waives the 
deluge of evidence required in longer 
deliveries such as senate exams and 
thesis defenses.
“For a three-minute talk people 
are more likely to trust you, ” Hollett 
said. “With hour-long talks there’s a 
significantly higher threshold for 
burden of proof. If you want to make a 
compelling conclusion, you better have 
the data to prove it. ”
Preparations for the Grad Slam 
began in February with workshops and 
one-on-one coaching sessions with the 
Center for Student Involvement and 
Qualcomm Institute. Hollett found 
the provided guidance supportive and 
practical.
“The coaching and workshop 
sessions were incredibly useful, ” 
Hollett said. “They were run by Tiffany Fox [from the California Institute for 
Telecommunications and Information 
Technolog y] and Katy Brecht [from 
Student Life] who gave many great 
pointers, even down to hand gestures 
and when to move on stage. Many of 
the coaching sessions were open to 
anyone, so I also got a lot of useful 
feedback from the other competitors. ”
Slebioda added that the emphasis 
on science communication for graduate 
students will continue to grow in the 
next few years. Hollett agrees with the 
direction the UC campuses are going 
and emphasized the importance of 
effective communication.
“I definitely think that 
communication skills should be 
emphasized more in graduate 
programs, ” Hollett said. “No matter 
how strong your research is, society 
ultimately has to accept it before it can 
gain any traction. ”UCAB Vice Chair Ashley 
Awe elaborated on the different 
considerations that went into 
selecting vendors.
“There’s a ton of factors that I 
thought about, including the quality 
of food, if they could accommodate 
dietary restrictions, how well the 
vendor would fit into the UCSD 
community and their proposed 
sustainability practices,” Awe 
explained. 
Both Wang and Awe share 
similar sentiments about Seed + 
Sprout’s potential to fill a gap in the 
food options on campus for many 
students seeking healthier options. 
“With a specific emphasis on 
no fried food, Seed + Sprout gives 
everyone something they can enjoy, ” 
Wang said. “[Whether] that be a 
more vegetable-centric meal or 
something that is protein rich or 
even gluten free. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
freshman Rhiannon Koh feels 
optimistic about the new addition to Price Center. 
“I feel like it’s a really good move 
because it’s showing that UCSD is 
being more inclusive for people with 
certain diet restrictions, ” Koh said. 
“Roots is a great place, but having 
Seed + Sprout is easier for people 
who don’t have dining dollars and 
it’s also centrally located. ”
ERC senior Hannah Sazon, 
a longtime vegan, expressed 
enthusiasm for a more vegetable-
centric restaurant option in Price 
Center as well.
“I think that UCSD has a lot of 
vegan options if you’re a longtime 
vegan — we generally know how 
to make do with what we have, ” 
Sazon told the Guardian. “I think 
it’s important to have [a vegetarian-
focused vendor] on campus because 
even veganized meals of ‘junk’ 
food is healthier than its meaty 
counterpart (because there’s no 
cholesterol in vegan food, there’s 
a healthy dose of fiber and usually 
more nutrient dense),  it makes the transition to eating more meat-
free meals easier when there are 
more options and options that are 
familiar to one’s previous way of 
eating, and it’s overall better for the 
environment. ”
Awe sees Seed + Sprout as a way 
to enhance the student experience 
on campus for many who feel that 
healthy food is inaccessible.
“My hope is that the UC San 
Diego community will have an 
on-campus option for healthy eating 
at an affordable price, ” Awe told the 
Guardian. “[I also hope that] those 
with dietary restrictions will find 
a place where they can eat good, 
healthy meals easily. ”
Wang is hopeful that UCEN and 
UCAB can work together for an 
opening in fall of 2018.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
SocialPowerHourSocial
Power
Hour
FIRST C OME,  FIRST SERVEd
FIRST C OME, FIRST SERVEd
WH EN AND WHE REWH EN AND WH ERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PM
FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!
MAY
18
▶ GRAND SLAM,  from page 1 Hollett: Developing Communication Skills 
Is Important for Graduate Students ▶ SEED + SPROUT,  from page 1UCAB Hopes the Vegetarian Friendly Vendor Will Open in Fall 2018
Rebecca Chong   rcchong@ucsd.eduMing-Ra y  Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
When a white man walks 
into an area occupied 
predominantly by people 
of color and starts to shoot at them, 
it’s hard to believe that race did not 
play a factor in this type of crime. At 
the shooting at the La Jolla Crossroads 
apartment complex on April 30, this 
was exactly what happened. However, 
less than 24 hours after this crime 
occurred, San Diego Police Chief 
Shelley Zimmerman said in a press 
conference that there is no reason to 
believe that this crime was racially 
motivated. On May 3, A.S. Council 
members released a statement 
about the shooting characterizing it 
as “a hate crime that was blatantly 
rooted in anti-blackness. ” The UCSD 
Guardian Editorial Board recognizes 
the role race played in this crime and 
denounces the SDPD’s hasty dismissal 
of a racially motivated crime. 
The SDPD maintains that the 
perpetrator was “despondent” over his 
recent breakup with his ex-girlfriend 
and that this was a spontaneous act 
of violence. The gunman called his 
ex-girlfriend and told her that he 
had just shot two people. He then 
kept her on the line while continuing 
to shoot people. Witnesses say that 
he reloaded his gun several times. 
Zimmerman believes that he wanted 
his ex-girlfriend to hear what he was doing. Zimmerman added that “the 
victims were targeted for no other 
reason but their mere presence in 
the vicinity of the suspect. ” However, 
a police affidavit revealed that the 
gunman’s sister, after finding out about 
the shootings, went to Crossroads, 
worrying that her brother might have 
been involved. Police searched his 
apartment to make sure that he did not 
harm his roommates or ex-girlfriend. 
The police found a full gun magazine 
and other gun-related items. This 
evidence indicates premeditated 
murder, especially considering the 
“despondent” state he was in. But 
premeditation doesn’t necessarily 
constitute this as a hate crime. 
The Federal Bureau of 
Investigation defines a hate crime as 
a crime “motivated in whole or in part 
by an offender’s bias against a race, 
religion, disability, sexual orientation, 
ethnicity, gender or gender identity. ” However, hate in itself is not a crime, 
and hate-based crimes can be difficult 
to determine, especially when the 
offender is dead, as is the case here. Of 
the seven persons shot, five were black; 
one is Latino and another is Caucasian. 
Witnesses allege that the perpetrator 
spared a white person. Given all of 
this evidence, it is perplexing why the 
SDPD so adamantly refuted the role 
race had in this crime. 
Did the gunman consciously seek 
to shoot people of color? That is 
difficult to answer, and we probably 
will never get a definitive answer 
to that question. However, it seems 
apparent that the gunman intended 
to shoot people that day. Perhaps he 
did not consciously think about who 
he would shoot, but the fact is that 
he shot people of color. Thinking of 
black victims of police shootings, it 
is clear that implicit bias - ideas and 
attitudes that affect a person’s actions and understandings unconsciously 
-  is at work. Studies have shown 
that training people to address and 
obliterate their implicit biases can 
prevent unlawful shootings of black 
people. A comparison can be made to 
this crime. Though we’ d like to think 
that police are not actively targeting 
people of color, people of color are 
the ones who are killed at a higher 
rate than persons of other races and 
ethnicities. Though the gunman at 
Crossroads might not have sought out 
people of color, his implicit biases 
against people of color could have 
been a factor in who he decided to 
shoot and who he decided to spare. 
The SDPD’s premature conclusion 
about the motive of this crime is 
concerning. Whether or not the 
perpetrator sought that day to shoot 
people of color is not something 
that will be proven in this case, but 
it doesn’t need to be in order for 
SDPD to have recognized, let alone 
considered, the racial motivation 
inherent in the outcome of the 
shooting. We hope that in the future, 
our law enforcement will more 
carefully examine the nature of a 
crime before dismissing other valid 
conclusions because if it walks like a 
hate crime and talks like a hate crime, 
it just might be one. OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SDPD Made Premature Dismissal of Race as 
Motivating Factor In Crossroads ShootingIn 2016, female high school 
students scored an average 
of 30 points lower on the 
Math SAT compared to male 
students. In 2009, only 27% of 
Math and Computer Science 
jobs were filled by women, a 
decline of 3 percentage points 
from 2000. And, most worryingly, 
in 2005 less than 10% of tenured 
PhD professors in Mathematics 
were women, leaving many famous 
discoveries and inventions to be created 
by predominantly male mathematicians.
For every statistic showing the 
lack of female representation in 
Mathematics, the contrapositive is 
true as well. If women are disinclined 
towards math for gender-based reasons, 
then men must be inclined towards 
math for similarly gendered reasons. 
The beliefs and cultures surrounding 
mathematics must somehow be linked 
with masculine identity.
At age 4, my parents gave me legos 
and Lincoln Logs to play with, not 
because I had expressed any interest in 
them, but because they felt like it was 
the good toy that ‘fit’ my personality. 
Y ears later I would be placed into 
double-advanced mathematics at age 
8 by my school counselor, who saw 
potential within me. Family friends 
recommended I join math-oriented 
summer camps which bolstered my 
understanding of spatial awareness 
and geometric thinking, two key 
aspects that can predict success 
in mathematics. All of these things 
were chosen for me with the belief 
that I would be ‘good’ at them long 
before anyone actually know what my 
academic strengths were.
It was during these essential years 
of my childhood that I also started 
to identify with my gender. I saw 
pictures of bulky male rockstars and 
superheroes on TV and the internet. 
My personality naturally adjusted to 
the stimuli I saw and heard; I imagined 
myself as the sole hero of an epic 
spaceship battle or as a rogue detective 
who ‘got results but didn’t play by 
the rules’ . The commonality across 
these experiences was my young 
self’s aspiration to be someone who 
broke the rules but still succeeded — 
someone who found new, unorthodox 
ways of being a hero in the world.
Math is a field that heavily values 
logical and original thinking. Students are 
often given problems that they may not 
have seen before in class, and expected 
to use their existing knowledge to 
create the new knowledge necessary to 
solve a given problem. A teacher might 
only tell the class the equation for a circle 
but assign homework requiring them to 
shift the circle or find new properties 
about it using their own reasoning. 
These problems are similar to the 
rogue detective who uses unorthodox 
methods to succeed, in that students 
have to find these solutions by creating 
seemingly-new rules which Math must 
follow.
It is for this reason why men are 
so heavily encouraged to pursue 
mathematics and similar fields. The 
culture of masculinity, which promotes 
independent genius and unorthodox 
behaviour, is heavily correlated with 
Math culture’s foundation of reaching 
solutions through unconventional 
methods. For Math to progress in the 
modern era, the former has to change. 
Otherwise, the prescribed relationship 
between math and masculinity will 
continue to keep the playing field 
unequal for female students who 
may not identify with the masculine 
associations of mathematics.BY THE UCSD GUARDIAN EDITORIAL BOARD
m
 i
  s
 c
a
 l
c
 u
 l
 a
t
e
d
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGMath & 
Masculinity: 
Least 
Iconic 
DuoNATE WALKER
NWALKER@UCSD.EDU As I paddled out at the popular 
and, as expected, crowded 
surf break of Lowers in San 
Clemente, California, I couldn’t 
help but  feel uneasy at every splash 
of water or shadow passing near 
me. After a week of countless shark 
sightings and a number of shark 
attacks along California’s coasts– 
including a great white shark 
breaching at Lowers a week ago– 
sharks seemed to be on everyone’s 
mind. But, as I noticed the calm 
atmosphere of the surfers around 
me, I wasn’t surprised to see that 
the sightings weren’t deterring too 
many people from their favorite 
ocean pastime. 
According to reports, nine 8-to-
10 foot sharks had been spotted 
in Dana Point, one 11-foot shark 
in San Clemente at the pier, and 
three more reported with aggressive 
behavior at surf spots in Trestles in 
San Clemente. And, on top of all the 
sightings, Leeanne Ericson, a mother 
of three, was attacked on April 29 
off of San Onofre State Beach, 
causing serious injury to her leg and 
leading to temporary beach closures 
in the area. Y et many surfers and 
swimmers have refused to abide by 
these closures, bringing to question 
the effectiveness of these mandates 
and whether or not city officials 
and lifeguards have the right to 
decide whether or not people can be 
allowed to enter the ocean at their 
own free will or not.
Although shark sightings are 
common in this area of California, 
the amount of activity as of late 
has certainly been more than 
usual. After the attack on Ericson, 
California State Lifeguards 
responded by issuing beach closures 
from Trail 6 at San Onofre all the 
way through San Clemente’s public 
beaches. Lifeguards and officials 
from helicopters actively called 
See SHARKS,  page 5
The ocean is ultimately the 
wilderness, and no beach closure 
will stop sharks from existing in 
their natural territory. 
Responding to Shark Attacks: 
Keep Warning Surfers, Stop Closing Beaches
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
The UCSD Guardian Editorial 
Board recognizes the role race 
played in this crime, and denounces 
the SDPD’s hasty dismissal of a 
racially motivated crime. BY EMILY COLLINS // SENIOR  STAFF WRITERRecent shark attacks and spottings in Southern 
California have raised pressure on lifeguards 
and city officials to keep ocean-goers away from 
sharky waters. Closing beaches and imposing 
fines, however, will never be the answer.NATE WALKER
NWALKER@UCSD.EDUOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UC San Diego
Student Summer Pass
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited  
rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. 
(Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.)
Pass Valid June 6 – September 30  
Online sales only: June 5 – August 3 1
Current registration/enrollment
for Summer Sessions or
continuing students from
Spring 2017 to Fall 2017 required .
For details visit:  summerpass.ucsd.edu
people out of the water, as well as 
having the power to issue citations to 
those who do not exit city beaches. 
Nevertheless, the surf spots have 
remained crowded and the closures 
have done little to ward off ocean-
goers. 
San Clemente lifeguard chief Bill 
Humphreys has stated the importance 
of these closures in protecting people 
from the risks of shark attacks. “The 
seriousness has escalated. And we do 
have the manpower to enforce," he 
said. "It’s a real slippery slope if you 
allow people to go in the water when 
it’s closed. . . we have a variety of 
people to look out for." 
And while closures may protect 
innocent, unknowing families from 
potential shark encounters, they 
become a mere hindrance to surfers 
and other common beachgoers who know the risks of sharks every time 
they paddle out into the wild that 
is the ocean. In 2015, when San 
Clemente and other surf spots in 
Trestles had a large number of shark 
sightings, city officials again closed 
the beaches and cleared the waters. 
In 2016, Sunset Beach in Huntington 
was closed on and off due to sightings, 
as the beach is closed anytime a shark 
over ten feet is spotted. Y et in all 
of these instances, the closures and 
reopenings acted more as a warning 
than an actual form of protection 
against people who refuse to abide by 
the reports and signs.  
Closures may very well help 
protect people in the sense that they 
serve as a warning and may give 
sharks more time to migrate away 
from the beaches. But, if the sharks are 
congregating rather than migrating 
— due either to fish, seal assemblages 
or higher water temperatures near the beaches — then waiting to enter 
the water because of a closure will 
do little in the long term to protect 
people from these animals. 
Certainly, lifeguards and city 
officials should continue monitoring 
waters and warning people if there 
is a high shark presence or a large 
number of shark sightings in the 
area. It should be up to those who are 
informed and in the water, however, 
to decide whether or not they should 
return to land. Forcing people to 
exit the water or fining those who 
refuse to do so will never succeed in 
fully preventing people from entering 
sharky oceans. The recent incident 
has shown this much. The ocean 
is ultimately the wilderness, and no 
beach closure will stop sharks from 
existing in their natural territory. WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
EACOLLIN@UCSD.EDU
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
▶ SHARKS, from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Though he is humble in his appearance and mannerisms, 
Middle Eastern history professor Michael Provence has 
lived a life full of interesting stories. Having visited the 
Middle East many times and becoming fluent in Arabic, he is now 
a renowned expert in his field and has appeared on TV programs 
such as KPBS’ Evening Edition to explain political issues in the 
region. Surprisingly, however, his career as a professor began 
relatively late in life.
Born in San Diego in 1966, Provence grew up in a working 
class household. As a young man, Provence did not have a straight 
path into academia. Instead of going to college, he started work 
at a machine shop after graduating high school. Coming from a 
working class background, this seemed the natural thing to do. 
Five years of working in the factory, however, gave the young man 
a yearning for adventure.
“I wanted to go to do something that I didn’t know anyone else 
had done, ” Provence said.
Despite his humble background, Provence had inspiration close 
at hand. Among his parents’ friends was David Johns, a professor 
of political science at San Diego State University with whom his 
family went to church. A frequent guest at the Provences’ house, 
he told stories of his travels to far-off reaches of the world: He was 
in Egypt during the 1973 war with Israel and took his entire family 
to China shortly after it opened to the West.
“I remember being really interested in what he had done, and he 
was a kind, encouraging person, ” Provence recalled. “He really gave 
me the idea that doing these types of things were possible. ”
In 1988 Provence finally gave in to his desire to travel and 
booked a one-way ticket to Amsterdam. From there he hitchhiked 
eastward through Europe, making his way to Berlin and the Czech 
Republic. In early 1989 he turned southward, traveling to Greece 
before crossing into Turkey, the first of many forays into the Middle 
East. Turkey turned out to be a paradise for the budding traveler: 
After living on a shoestring budget in Europe, he found himself 
eating like a king and being surrounded by very hospitable people.
“I was absolutely smitten with the place, ” Provence said. “I said 
to myself, ‘Whatever I do, I want to study the history of this part of 
the world and come back as often as I can. ’”
After Turkey, Provence traveled further afield to India, spending 
another half-year there before returning to America. By the 
end of his journey he found himself a changed man with a new 
perspective on the world.
“Probably the thing that surprised me most was not the 
differences, but the similarities, ” said Provence. “I met people my 
own age in places like Czechoslovakia, when the Cold War was 
intense, and I thought, ‘Why would I want to be in a conflict with 
these people who are much closer to me than these old men who 
were running our respective countries and saying we are enemies?’ 
That was kind of a revelation. ”
From there on out, he took his life in an entirely new direction. 
In 1990 he finally went to college, beginning at Grossmont College 
in El Cajon before transferring to UC Berkeley two years later, working several “crappy jobs” to support himself. At Berkeley he 
majored in history while studying Arabic in preparation for his 
future travels in the Middle East. After returning to factory work 
for a year, he attended the University of Chicago for graduate 
school where he continued studying Arabic and Middle Eastern 
history.
Finally, in 1997, Provence managed to make it to the Arab 
world, travelling to Morocco for a few weeks. In 1998, he received 
a Fulbright Scholarship to study at Damascus University in Syria, 
attending as an auditor. There he studied Arabic intensively, 
gaining the ability to speak fluently with the locals. His time in 
Damascus was split between research for his dissertation and 
enjoying life among the common people of Syria.
“It was wonderful, it was absolutely fabulous in every way, ” 
Provence reminisced. “It was an authoritarian country and there 
were things that were a little difficult, but as my German roommate 
[said], ‘We have more privileges as foreign passport holders than 
most Syrians. ’ I could afford to eat in a fancy restaurant every day. ”
With time he came to have many Syrian friends and learned how 
to live like a Damascene, playing board games and drinking tea in 
coffee shops.
“I would study, I would read, I would walk around the city, 
then in the evenings I would meet with friends in coffee shops and 
we would talk for hours, ” Provence recalled. “We strolled the old 
lanes of the old city, thousands of years old, visited people at their 
houses, chatted and had tea. That was how we spent our time. ”
Provence would spend two and a half years in the country, doing 
research on his dissertation, which he eventually finished at the 
University of Chicago in 2001.
After receiving his doctorate, he began his career in teaching 
at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. With a stable source 
of income came more money to spend on his Middle Eastern 
adventures. In 2002, Provence returned to the Arab world for the 
summer, this time visiting Lebanon and renting cars to visit other 
parts of the country. This would be the first of many summer trips 
to Lebanon, which he takes to this day with his wife and son.
Though Provence has a largely sympathetic view of the Middle 
East — one sorely lacking among many Americans — he does 
acknowledge that traveling in the region comes with its risks. In 
2006, for instance, he found himself in Beirut in the middle of a 
war between Israel and Lebanon. He and his family were relatively 
secure in their housing at the American University of Beirut, but 
he vividly recalls the terror that overcame the city during the Israeli 
air force raids.
“We could see it and we could hear it, and we saw and heard a 
lot of things, especially when they bombarded things nearby like 
the port, ” Provence remembered. “ All these things make special 
sounds, and you don’t forget them — artillery, airstrikes, stuff like 
that. ”
None of this has tempered Provence’s love of the Middle East 
and the people who inhabit it. Provence sees the people of the Arab  Professor Michael 
Provence, who has 
visited the Middle 
East almost every 
year for the past 
two decades, teaches 
classes on the history 
of the modern 
middle east and is 
a respected expert 
in his field. The 
Guardian sat down 
with Provence to 
learn about his path 
to academia and his 
perspective on middle 
eastern politics in the 
age of Trump.Michael 
Provence:
A Foot in 
Two Worlds
by Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
Photo courtesy of Michael Provence
SeePROVENCE  page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Iván Evans’ resume is as imposing as his six-foot-plus stature: high school 
graduate at 15, Fulbright scholar, professor of sociology and Making of the Modern 
World at UC San Diego and Provost of Eleanor Roosevelt College. But, with his 
friendly demeanor, untucked shirt, gold earring and distinctive South African 
accent, he is far from unapproachable. In a recent interview, he revealed himself an 
engaging storyteller as well.
“I was born in the northern part of South Africa, ” he began. “This was at the 
height of apartheid … when the population was divided into four official ethnic 
groups by law, and the state rigidly enforced these ethnic identities … My family was 
regarded as ‘colored, ’ which was a distinct group, not black not white, but a mixture 
of the two, and they were kept apart from whites, and kept apart from blacks, and 
from the fourth group, Indians. ”
“So, ” he continued, “it was a very, very rigid and racialized society, of course 
… kept in place with extraordinary arrogance, violence and brutality, inhumanity. ”
For Evans, it is impossible to extricate his own story from the story of South 
Africa. He sees the trajectory from childhood to his career researching the state and 
racial violence as “one continuous path. ”
“My earliest recollections, ” he said, “are of a sense of life and of grievance … my 
family owned a farm, and that’s an interesting story: it came into our hands because 
my English grandfather … was given land as a gift for fighting in the Great War 
somewhere in Africa. So, he chose South Africa, and they knocked off the natives 
and gave him the land … I know [the land] belongs to black people, and I know they 
were dispossessed so that my white grandfather could have it. ”
Though he has long since left that patch of land near Kruger National Park, 
Evans still feels a connection to it. This summer, he will be returning to South Africa 
to teach a Global Seminar, and to conduct research for an upcoming book about the 
complexities of inheriting land with such a painful history attached. The piece will 
be academic, though Evans says he is also partial to a novel.
At the same time, Evans is quick to recognize the advantages he has had in life. 
“I had a tremendously happy and healthy childhood, ” he told the UCSD Guardian. 
Though he and his family did suffer through the violence of segregation, they were 
not members of, as he put it, “the oppressed masses. ”
His family was well-connected and affluent. His father had two master’s degrees, 
and graduated one year behind Nelson Mandela. Evans recalls his parents engaging 
him in political conversations from the age of six or seven, and he speaks fondly of 
his constant exposure to books.
When he was twelve, his family moved to Cape Town. 
There, he recalls, “the few black intellectuals at the time were constant regulars 
in our house. ” 
These leaders left an impression on Evans, reinforcing his “sense of social 
injustice” and encouraging his academic pursuits.
That desire to learn was further fostered by Evans’ father, who was a high school 
principal. 
“He kept saying, ‘you’ve done that already, come on, ’ so he pushed me, and 
changed the books, ” Evans said with a smile. 
“I graduated high school at fifteen [and] entered university when I was sixteen, ” 
he said. He chuckles and points out that though he was the youngest, he was also the 
tallest, towering over the others at “six-foot-one … before age sixteen!”
As Evans entered college at the University of Cape Town, the anti-apartheid 
movement began to take off. 
“I spent my years at university burning buildings down, blocking access to 
classrooms and fighting the police, ” he said.
Though Evans was always impassioned by the struggle against apartheid, it took 
some time for him to find an intellectual and political movement with which to 
identify.
“I graduated into a milieu of blackness, of black consciousness, with the power 
fist, and the hairdo and wearing black. But it never quite felt like me ... the black 
power ideology ... kept reducing blackness to a matter of almost a blood identity. ”
Evans recalls the Soweto Rebellion as a turning point not only in South African 
history, but also in his own story. The incident was tragic: an uprising of black youth 
in the township of Soweto turned deadly due to police brutality. But for Evans, it also 
brought the messages of the African National Congress to his attention.
”I was immediately attracted to their ideology of non-racism, and the argument that all identities are social constructions, and that nothing is fixed in blood … I felt 
more comfortable with the [ANC’s ideals of] of a multiracial, of a non-racial society, 
so I swung my allegiance over, ” he said. 
Through his years at university, Evans continued to fight for what he believed in. 
But the protests became increasingly violent. Students were being shot by police, or 
held incommunicado in jail for months on end. His professors, impressed by Evans’ 
talent, began to worry for his safety. 
“They felt that I had some potential that would be wasted if I were inconvenienced 
by lengthy incarceration or death during the protest” he said, sincere and sardonic at 
the same time. “So they encouraged me to apply for a scholarship overseas. ”
Evans obtained a prestigious Fulbright scholarship that funded his PhD studies 
in sociology at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He speaks fondly of his time 
there: “intellectually, my mind just blew open … and so I knew I’ d done the right 
thing to commit myself to academia and to the life of an academic. ”
Madison was also the “epicenter” of America’s anti-Apartheid movement, 
according to Evans.
“I gravitated from the cauldron of South Africa into the heated environment of 
militant, radical, chic Madison, Wisconsin. So, I felt again that my involvement in, 
and commitment to, an emancipatory vision of politics was strongly reinforced. ”
The transition from Cape Town to Madison wasn’t always easy.
“I found it very hard to strike up relations with black Americans, ” Evans said. 
“I’m fairly light-skinned myself, and I was frequently told that this was simply a 
problem [and that] black Americans didn’t feel completely OK with my accent. ” 
Still, Evans says, he feels fortunate to have been involved in academia, where 
people were more open-minded and interested in befriending him. “But still, ” he 
remembered, “making that sort of racial transition in the United States, I realized 
that race didn’t directly convey from one context to another. ”
After obtaining his PhD, Evans returned to South Africa to continue the struggle. 
After about three years, however, he found himself drawn back to the U.S., and 
eventually, to UC San Diego, vowing to continue the struggle even on the other side 
of the world. Indeed, he did, and published a book in 1997 on the “Bureaucracy of 
Race” in South Africa. He also published the book “Cultures of Violence: Lynching 
and Racial Killing in South Africa and the American South” in 2009.  
Race remains an integral part of Evans’ personal life. “My wife is white; I have one 
kid who resembles me very much … my other son, you’ d not doubt that he’s whiter 
than you, totally! So, it was very, very interesting, having like a living laboratory in 
your family. ”
Evans, who is known for the personal quality of his lectures, does not shy away 
from talking about his experience of having a mixed-race family. “I use it a lot in my 
sociology classes where I discuss questions of identity and always to make the point 
that identity is a social constitution. [It goes] back to that African National Congress 
message that identities are what we make of them, and we unmake them and we 
change them for definite circumstances. ”
Just as Evans takes a nuanced approach to racial identity and how it impacts his 
life, he also makes a point to say how gender does too. It is a “male prerogative, ” he 
says, to be able to share anecdotes about his family in class. He points out that if a 
female professor were to do the same thing, she would be criticized for bringing her 
private life into work or talking about emotional things. Still, Evans enjoys using his 
experience in his lectures.
“The best way to bring history to life is to make it intersect with people’s 
biographies, ” he said.
Evans can see the ways in which social structures have influenced his life story, 
and wants students to reflect on their place in society and history as well. But, he 
says that he increasingly believes in the power of individuals to break out of social 
constraints and shape history themselves. For example, he said, “If you just focus on 
the personal biography and style of Nelson Mandela … a good deal of South Africa’s 
history is explained by that man’s personality and his style. Not by structures, not by 
the international boycott, capitalism or globalization, but his style. ”  
“These days, ” he told the Guardian, “I’m much more interested in what we bring 
to the table as individuals. That’s why I’m interested in students seeing what we’re 
doing as an invitation to history. ” BEHIND THE LECTERN
Iván Evans: An Invitation to HistoryBy Isabelle Amon / / Contributing Writer
by Oliver Kelton // Features Editorworld as largely blameless for the things that have happened to 
them, unfortunate victims of international politics. This is the 
perspective that he tries to show to his students here at UC San 
Diego, where he has taught classes on the modern Middle East 
since leaving Southern Methodist University in 2005.
“They are largely blameless for the terrible things that have 
happened to them, and sometimes we bear responsibility for 
their misery also, ” Provence insisted.
Naturally, Provence is very concerned about the policies the 
Trump administration has enacted with respect to the Middle 
East, particularly its stance on refugees.
“I think it’s immoral in every way, ” Provence proclaimed. “Nobody voted for the Syrian government, and when you’re 
living with an authoritarian dictatorship the degree of consent 
is pretty limited and we can see what happens in the case of 
Syria when people try to withdraw their consent. The fact 
that hundreds of thousands of them have become refugees is a 
moral crisis of our time, and as a human being I think there is 
a moral imperative to help them. ”From PROVENCE , page 6
Oliver  Kel ton  okelton@ucsd.edu
Isabelle Amon  iamon@ucsd.eduIf you are one of the countless numbers of college seniors preparing to graduate and begin a new chapter 
of your adult life, it is difficult not to panic. Transition is tough, especially from education to employment. 
Y ou are given a degree and told that your success depends on how well you assimilate to the collective 
economy, suffering from tales of drudgery and dreading the inevitable nine-to-five grind. Y ou were meant to 
be someone, and now you stare into the abyss of your life with uncertainty and defeat. This crushing feeling 
of meaninglessness in an uncaring universe, the ever-familiar existential crisis, is a defining theme in the 
animated show “Rick and Morty. ” 
The show follows Rick, a genius scientist, and Morty, his dimwitted nephew, on their ridiculous adventures 
throughout the multiverse, made possible by Rick’s interdimensional portal gun. While “Rick and Morty” 
borrows from popular sci-fi films, it is deeply inspired by the cosmic horror genre. Viewers of the show 
will recognize Cthulhu, H.P . Lovecraft’s tentacled cosmic demon, in the opening credits. Cosmic horror 
centers on the unknown and unimaginable, as well as the dread of being exposed to a reality that is beyond 
comprehension. In the episode “Get Schwifty, ” Earth is visited by giant floating heads, who demand, “Show 
us what you got. ” Humanity, unable to fathom or make meaning out of this cosmic event, begins to worship 
these visitors as gods. But the floating heads, known as the Cromulons, are simply putting on an intergalactic 
music competition.
To the Cromulons, Earth’s significance is as a contestant in a competition, and if it doesn’t win, it will be 
disintegrated by a giant space laser just like every losing planet before it. “Get Schwifty” puts humanity in 
perspective, one that Rick understands and has accepted. In a multiverse beyond comprehension, with infinite 
possibilities, values and purpose start to slip away. And when that’s gone, the only option is to be a sarcastic, 
unapologetic asshole, as Rick is. He trivializes and demystifies everything using science, boiling even the 
most transcendental human experiences like love into numbers. Despite his nonchalant attitude, Rick is an 
alcoholic whose catchphrase, “wubbu lubba dub dub, ” means “I am in great pain. ” He is cursed by a struggle 
to find meaning, knowing that none exists. 
If you are a college student, particularly a graduating senior, you too have felt this struggle. Y our whole life 
you’ve wanted to be older than you are, to have responsibility and be seen as someone with agency. But now, 
as agency creeps toward you, the thought of freedom induces anxiety rather than calm. College turns out not 
to be the “best four years of your life” as everyone has promised, but a struggle to define yourself, to contrive 
passions and pursuits and to find a reason to wake up for an 8 a.m. class. When someone asks you about your 
plans after college, “I don’t know” is no longer an acceptable response, so you select a socially curated life plan 
and stick to it, blind to its future outcomes.
In the episode “Mortynight Run, ” Morty gets the opportunity to play a game called “Roy, ” which simulates 
an entire human life. In the span of a few minutes, Morty lived out the full life of Roy, an everyman who lives 
a long and ordinary life. What separates our struggle to find meaning, success or love from the struggle of Roy 
to do the same? In the end, Roy fatally injures himself falling off a ladder in his rug store, his life amounting 
to nothing more than a pointless game. But when Rick plays, he takes his character “off the grid, ” rejecting the 
pursuit of arbitrary meaning. He may as well be pursuing that delicious Szechuan sauce.
In a random multiverse, indifferent to your hopes and desires, it is best to embrace the pointlessness of 
life and move on. Life doesn’t need to be validated, it simply exists. As Morty points out, “Nobody exists on 
purpose. Nobody belongs anywhere. Everybody dies. ” This can be a comforting thought in a moment of 
existential angst. Life is a cosmic raw deal, and summer is approaching fast. At least we have the third season 
of “Rick and Morty” to look forward to.A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // BRITTNEY LU & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Steeped in cynicism and horror, “Rick and Morty” prepares us 
for the absurd and meaningless life of a college graduate.
By Naftali Burakovsky // Senior Staff Writer “Rick and Morty ” and the Meaning of Life
PHOTO COURTESY OF SAM VELAZQUEZA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9HERE it all comes together.
This is not an offer to sell but intended for information only. Renderings, photography, illustrations, ﬂoor plans, amenities, ﬁnishes and other information described herein are representative only and are not intended to 
reﬂect any speciﬁc feature, amenity, unit condition or view when built. No representation and warranties are made with regard to the accuracy, completeness or suitability of the information published herein. The developer 
reserves the right to make modiﬁcation in materials, speciﬁcations, plans, pricing, designs, scheduling and delivery without prior notice. Represented by S&P Realty Services Corp. CalBRE# 02012517NOW OPEN FOR PREVIEWING / SAVINACONDOS.COM  
Be among the ﬁrst to preview one of Downtown’s most highly anticipated new communities.
SALES GALLERY OPEN DAILY 11AM-5PM  /  701 FRONT ST   /  619.269.2188With something to love in every direction, this contemporary collection of 
1, 2 & 3 bedroom high-rise homes is just steps from the bay and vibrant 
Little Italy neighborhood. Inside, modern appointments, sophisticated style 
and inviting social retreats create a distinctly new lifestyle. Welcome to 
remarkable urban waterfront living.10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
The theater can seem like a world 
unto itself; as the lights drop and 
curtains pull back, it is all too 
easy to for an audience to escape into the 
dramas and tribulations of something less 
real than what lies beyond that fourth wall. 
However, for Lily Padilla, it is a reflection 
of reality, a place for the words she’s drawn 
from life around her to be reborn on stage.
Padilla, a graduate student in the 
playwriting program here at UC San Diego, 
has always drawn inspiration from outside of 
herself. “I love the way people talk, ” Padilla 
said when she sat down with the Guardian 
to discuss her experiences as a playwright. 
“I love dialogue; I love the odd poetries that 
come out of people’s mouths when they don’t 
even realize it. I love it when people mess up 
and say odd things. That’s everywhere. That’s 
taking a walk, that’s teaching, that’s constant. ”This love for naturalism and the true 
experience of life — whether good, bad or 
mundane — makes her current work stand 
out from past projects. “This is the coffee 
pot brewing, ” she said of her latest play 
“(w)holeness, ” the story of a wayward sex-
addict support group. “This is what I have 
in my bag and how I feel uncomfortable 
opening my bag in front of other people. ”
“(w)holeness, ” an entry in the W agner New 
Play Festival, explores intimacy and sexuality, 
subjects whose deeper meanings Padilla has 
explored in past works. “I think it’s a play 
about the great effort it takes to drop your 
public mask and the intense anxiety around 
what it is to be yourself, ” she told us, and then 
paused for a moment before adding, “and 
the gifts that might emerge when you are. ”
Padilla has always been a writer, with 
an introverted childhood spent avoiding playmates in order to curl up with a good 
book or else write on and off on her own. 
She has also long participated in the theater 
world, but it took time for these two parts 
of her life to connect. “ Ages six to 21, I 
was an actor. I went to boarding school for 
acting, went to Tisch for acting and devising 
work. I was always writing throughout that 
time. If I was unsatisfied by the parts, I 
would write parts for me and my friends, 
but I didn’t consider myself a writer. ”  It 
wasn’t until after she was given the chance to 
nervously read one of her plays for the staff 
of a playwriting center that she received the 
offer to have some of her work performed.
It’s hard to find opportunities in an 
industry as fiercely competitive as theater, 
but Padilla has wasted no time in creating 
her own. She has written numerous plays 
and cofounded American Nightcap, a self-described passion project she worked on 
when she lived in New Y ork City, which 
brought together creators from all walks of 
life to create a piece in 10 or fewer hours. 
“That was the biggest for me, ” she reflected 
on her past work in New Y ork. “People feeling 
like they had a place where they could stay. ”
Still, the future feels daunting at times, 
as it does for all college students. Padilla 
commented that an ideal future for her would 
involve writing for television while continuing 
to teach and work on plays, but what comes 
next is, as always, clouded with uncertainty. 
“It is nerve-wracking, ” she admitted about 
the theater industry. “But it’s also just like, 
‘Okay. This is the next step of the journey.’”
—   Chloe  Esser
Contributing WriterThe UCSD Guardian spoke to graduate student and playwright Lily Padilla about her creative journey and process.
Inter view  
with a 
pla ywright  
Lily 
Padilla
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD THEATRE
Four emotionally-damaged sex addicts, an 
eternally absent psychologist, an intern way 
too in over her head and a recreation center 
room — it sounds a bit like the beginning of a 
bad joke, but as a play it makes for something 
honest, emotional and undeniably fun.
A part of the Wagner New Play 
Festival, “(w)holeness, ” sets the stage with 
a Northern California support group for 
sex and love addicts. The group has been 
interrupted during its second meeting by 
Matt (Brandon O’Sullivan), a loud-mouthed 
straight white male outsider to a group 
that consists otherwise of women and the 
nonbinary Jace (Max Singer). Immediately, 
there is opposition to Matt joining their 
group, mostly from the aggravated Ruth 
(Nicole Javier). However, this conflict is only 
the first of many between the characters 
that brings them to their most vulnerable 
points, causes them to reveal their most 
shameful secrets and allows them to build 
themselves back up into something stronger and more accepting of an imperfect world.
The sets are simplistic and in some 
places a bit run down, but this successfully 
captures the dejected feel of the lonely 
room that is the setting for the characters’ 
road to healing. Some of the costumes are 
excellent — notably that of the intern Veena 
(Danielle E.B. Wineman), for the most 
part adorned in clunky sandals and loose 
sweaters that give her the fitting aesthetic 
of an overwhelmed kindergarten teacher. 
When she enters in one scene wearing 
heels and business attire instead, there is an 
immediate feeling that something is very 
wrong before she even opens her mouth.
There is certainly an uncanny realism 
to the play; it does not hide life’s awkward 
moments — those long pauses, the stuttering, 
the anxieties — for the sake of art or aesthetic, 
instead embracing the uncomfortable and 
the messy as the characters learn to do 
the same in themselves. One unexpectedly 
charming scene involves Faith (Janet Fiki), a particularly introverted and anxious group 
member, pulling out a guitar and encouraging 
the other members to sing along with her to 
Katy Perry’s “Firework. ” This is something 
that should be horrendously uncomfortable 
to watch but ends up being one of the 
most striking moments of the show, feeling 
honest and natural with its purposely shoddy 
singers and awkward pauses full of stumbles 
and quiet encouragement. It captures 
the feeling of a both joyful and broken 
impulsiveness in a way that is carefully 
rehearsed, all while feeling spontaneous.
The show’s greatest downfall is 
undoubtedly its ending — jarring and without 
any real resolution aside from the characters 
accepting that they are damaged, something 
already known long before stepping into the 
support group. In a way, this is perhaps an 
extension of the unflinching realness of the 
play, that mankind’s neuroses cannot be so 
easily cured, that healing is a journey that 
has no real ending, just a moment when the audience stops watching. Regardless, that 
does not make up for the fact that the first 
indication that it was over was the actors 
standing in line to bow. The ending also has the 
misfortune of being paired with an awkward 
dance number that feels entirely too staged 
and too close in proximity to the Katy Perry 
number for an otherwise music-free show.
“(w)holeness” does not hide from life’s 
darker truths and people’s grimmer secrets, 
exploring the messier dynamics between 
individuals already entangled in the chaos of 
their own lives and the way these relationships 
can tear people down and build them back up 
in a single stroke. While it could benefit from 
a deeper exploration into some characters and 
a more cohesive ending, “(w)holeness” feels 
fun and fresh in a way you won’t soon forget.
 
—   Chloe Esser
Contributing Writer“(w)holeness” brings an array of dysfunctional characters together in a journey toward healing and acceptance.
THEA TER  REVIEW
(w)holeness
PHOTO COURTESY OF BRAKPAN HERALD
Director   Dylan Key
Writer   Lily Padilla
Starring  Janet Fiki, Nicole Javier, Max Singer, Brandon O’Sullivan 
Runs   May 9 through May 19
Location   Theodore and Adele Shank TheatreA-LIFESTYLE                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 5 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
PHOTO COURTESY OF BRAKPAN HERALDEvery morning I have the privilege of hitting the snooze button seven times (apologies to my roommate if 
you’re reading this). Then I throw together some combination of whatever’s in my kitchen into a breakfast 
and try to look like some semblance of a human before hitching the bus to work, school or whatever else 
the day ahead holds. Multiple times a day, I — rather ashamedly now that I think about it — internally complain 
that my classes are too demanding, work is too unpredictable and extracurriculars are borderline burdensome. 
It was one day in my Urban Studies and Planning 147 lecture headed by Dr. Leslie Lewis that I realized, in the 
midst of everything I do here at UC San Diego, I truly don’t have a full comprehension of what it means to be a 
student faced with a diversity of challenges. At the start of each course, the “introductory Lewis lecture” begins 
with a survey of the demographics of our class, and I realized one of my peers was balancing not just work, 
school and research, but also being a parent. 
Readers out there, think that through. In reflecting back on my morning mayhem, I realize, in my classmate’s 
lived experience, there is no privilege in hitting snooze, because maybe their child has a bad case of the flu. 
Breakfast is not just some last-minute recommendation, but an everyday requirement because you cannot 
let your son or daughter go to school hungry either. While I only have myself to take care of in the morning, 
a student parent is able to make two look decent. And while I might get the opportunity to nap in between 
work and school, my classmate might have drop-offs to babysitters, pick-ups from soccer practice and endless 
challenges in-between. So as I relentlessly go about on a tirade of being tired, I cannot begin to fathom the 
demands of being a student parent, especially at a campus that is research-based and competition-driven. 
The Institute for Women’s Policy Research’s most recent data from 2014 indicates that nearly 4.8 million 
undergraduate students in the U.S., roughly 26 percent, are parents raising dependent children outside of being a 
full- or part-time student. About 75 percent of this group are women, most of whom are single parents. Breaking 
down this group even further, most are women of color. While the specific numbers unique to UCSD’s student 
parent demographic remain unknown, personal experience shows that there is at least one student balancing 
academia and parenting encountered per quarter. However, while national trends depict an increasing amount 
of student parents enrolling in college — even if marginally, depending on the contextualization per campus — 
there is a correlating decrease in amount of student parent resources available on campuses nationwide. 
So how might this diminishing structural support on campuses fuel what The Atlantic would call, “the quiet 
struggle” of student parents? Increasingly, the worlds between parenting and professionalism are ever-colliding 
and interweaving. But a lack of support, or even awareness and recognition, of the complexities of being a 
student parent can further perpetuate challenges, particularly financially or through social disconnectivity. 
Here at UCSD, there are housing options — like Mesa Residential Apartments — that provide child care 
while students are in class and facilitate spaces to help encourage the gathering of families with student parents. 
Other resources include specialized financial aid, full-time early education centers, family recreational spaces, 
lactation rooms and even some prenatal support. Lindsay Bell, a sophomore at UCSD and employee for the 
campus’ child care center said, “The center provides excellent care at a subsidized cost and it not only provides 
care while parents are in class but also accounts for study and work hours. It opens at 7:30 a.m. and closes at 5 
p.m. so parents are free from worrying about childcare in scheduling classes so that relieves some of the burden 
… There are additional care nights offered where teachers volunteer their time to give student parents a night 
out or a night to study or whatever they need to do with that time. ” Bell concludes by saying how a “care center is 
imperative for student parents and really helps them focus more on school rather than worrying about childcare. ”
As the academic and research climate ramps up in competition and strenuity, there lingers the question 
of whether the university culture is conducive to encouraging and supporting student parents. In an article 
published through The Odyssey, student parents share their experiences of managing a full course load while 
taking care of their child’s needs and balancing a job on the side. So many things fall out of what researchers 
might call the locus of control for student parents, with external factors confounding the demands of solely being 
a student. Historically and culturally too, there have been insinuations — particularly for women — that the 
pursuit of both family and academia is practically impossible, that to excel in both being a parent and student 
is too big of a feat. Y et, for student parents, there is a layer of learning and maturity that remains unspoken 
and unappreciated, especially in the world of secondary education. Increasing support and empowerment for 
the “millennial parent, ” a term coined by the Pew Research Center, shows how sentiment may have shifted 
more in favor toward the partnered seeking of higher education and parenthood, but it is still not a universally 
recognized point of view. Retrospectively, as mentality gears towards pursuing a family and degree, there is hope 
for increased structural support to continue empowering and encouraging in this way. 
In the best of ways, being a student parent might just effectively dismantle the ways parenting, education 
and professionalism are perceived and intersect in this generation. In creating supportive environments for the 
dual identity of student parents to thrive, universities can reimagine familial, gendered and socio-economic 
dynamics. Incorporation of tangible, physical spaces into the university (and even professional) climate can 
help encourage community building rather than demographic dissonance. Rather than propelling the idea that 
one cannot simultaneously be a part of both worlds successfully, the student parent experience challenges the 
restraints imposed upon what a working professional in the 21st century looks like. Furthermore, parents who 
are in college also help empower their own children to pursue higher education too. As opposed to limiting 
the conversation to a tradeoff between parenting and pedagogy, may there be environments that stimulate the 
benefits to the pursuit of both. parents and pedagogy
Thanks, Ma: 
An Ode to the 
Mom Friendby Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-editor 
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-editor 
Mother’s Day may have come and gone, but that 
doesn’t mean the appreciation for mothers — in 
all forms and varieties — should be limited to one 
day. After all, the mom’s role is definitely not limited to just the 
responsibilities shoved into a 24-hour span. So if you haven’t had 
the time to stop and call whoever has taken on the motherly role 
in your life, I’ d recommend you take a few minutes to appreciate 
the matriarch of your heart. 
But here’s an ode to the unspoken heroes of Friday night 
parties. A thank you to the planners of Monday morning 
meetings and the Sun God emergency contacts. An appreciation 
for the late-night snack deliverers and the person who drives the 
sick roommate to CVS for some over-the-counter necessities. 
To all you Mom friends out there (you know who you are), this 
one’s for you.
We may not have a physical bouquet of flowers or a breakfast 
in bed to offer, but with words and admiration, Lifestyle is here 
with humble gratitude for all the things you do. From taking care 
of us, even when you too might have had a few drinks, to making 
sure that we are sleeping, eating and hydrating, the role you 
play in our university lives is insurmountable. Your planners are 
impeccable, your meal preps are worthy of their own Instagram 
fan page and your compassionate ways are ever needed, always 
appreciated. 
You have used your experiences to make sure we don’t fall 
into the same traps and guide us into higher ground when we 
are helplessly drowning in papers, tests and work. Mom friends 
out there, thanks for always reminding us it will be okay, for 
reminding us that there shouldn’t be guilt associated with rest 
and for driving us (okay maybe just me) to Denny’s at 3 a.m. for 
procrastination pancakes. 
And with that, thanks, ma. With lots of love, Lifestyle. ILLUSTRATION BY DALIDA RACHED12                                            T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 5 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
When we were younger, we were taught that “home” is somewhere 
you live. 
“Home” was a house, an address you could write down and give 
someone directions to. But it seems as if once you pass a certain age 
threshold, “home” begins to take on more of an abstract meaning 
rather than a physical one, and “home” and “house” are no longer 
synonymous. Many refer to it as a feeling, a sense of belonging. After 
all, “home is where the heart is. ” 
My definition of “home, ” probably like most other people, depends 
on context. At school, I say I’m going “home, ” but I’ d consider my 
dorm room more of a “base” or a place that I currently live. If you’ d 
ask me where “home” is, I’ d say the San Francisco Bay Area where I 
lived before college. But you’ll also catch me saying, “I’m going home 
for the summer” — in this case, I’m referring to the Philippines where 
I was born and where I spent the first six years of my life, a country I 
still hold very close to my heart and to my identity. 
These definitions prompted me to open a survey and see what my 
fellow UC San Diego students thought “home” meant. This is what 
146 of you had to say. Home
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-editor 
What does "home" mean to you? 
tHome has since become community and personal sentiment rather than a physical 
space.
tHome is where my family and friends predominantly are and where I feel most ground -
ed/rooted (a.k.a. where I will go back to in a time of disaster).
tHome is the place where as soon as I walk through the door, the stress of the outside 
world melts away. It’s where I am surrounded by friends and family who love me so I 
can be my unapologetic self.
tAs a military kid, the physical house or place never really stuck as home, so it's where 
my family is at or where I'm really comfortable.
tI consider both UC San Diego and my family house to be my home, but if I had to pick 
one it would have to be where my family lives. Home is where I can unwind and have 
my own space.
tSomewhere I can interact with people of all backgrounds easily. Somewhere I can be 
active in nature and have a busy/bustling nightlife at once. Somewhere I can always find 
something fun to do at the last minute. Lots of art.
tWhere you feel some sort of familial connection to those around you, where you want 
to return to after a long day and where some of the best memories are made.
tI like it here. I talk to the people around me more than I do at the home of 
my high school years. In fact, I would say that I feel incredibly distant from 
my hometown because I’ve left there for three years — everything is different; 
those bonds that I swore would never fade are disappearing.
tI do feel at home at UCSD because I have my own room where I can just 
unravel and not worry about anyone else. It’s my own space and I can feel com -
fortable here, although not quite to the level of my family home.
tI can consider UCSD home because I feel comfortable walking around by my -
self and I always feel like I can find things to do here.
tI feel like this is where I have most grown into my identity, in both good and 
challenging ways.
tI basically considered home every place that means something special to me. 
After my four years at UCSD, I will have definitely made many memories and 
UCSD will have a special place in my heart.
tTo return to after a long day and where some of the best memories are made.tA greater sense of community, though I do not know how that would be achieved. 
Raising the prestige of the school will also make more people not regret their decision 
to come here, make the school stop accepting so many students and solve many of the 
overcrowding problems.
tI’m in Earl Warren College and there doesn’t seem to be much of an effort on UCSD’s 
part (well, Warren’s) to reach out to the students. Other colleges seem to have more 
events going on and even post all the upcoming events in bathrooms. In terms of UCSD 
as a university, having more safe spaces would be nice.
tI wish it were easier to have a social life when you’re not a part of Greek life.
tMake things more personal in general — parts of UCSD are polarizing. Maybe make 
more comfortable study and hang spaces, more places and resources for students to be 
their genuine selves.
tIncluding more quirks throughout campus. For example, I like the tiny mirrors in the 
knots of the trees outside the Career Services Center, the fairy lights strung outside PC, 
the fountain in Revelle and the singing tree. The various unique things on campus make 
this place seem more special and endearing to me.
tNo more weekend tests for sure would help. At home, my weekend is my time, [not] my 
school’s. Additionally, more personal space would be appreciated and private outdoor 
suite space where we could garden or have patio furniture or something.
tBreakfast at our dining hall in Thurgood Marshall College would be nice. They have ba -
gels or acai bowls, but I don’t go there for my cereal or scrambled eggs like the students 
in Eleanor Roosevelt College could do. It’s more of a walk for me, and then it’s not really 
“home” any more, because I’ll have to be dressed and ready to emerge into the world in 
order to enjoy breakfast.Why can’t you consider UC San Diego/San Diego “home”?  
tBeing an international student, I’ve only stayed in the U.S. for less than a year. Considering 
the fact that I was raised in another country for 18 years, I feel like I still need time to 
wholeheartedly call a new place “home. ” That being said, since I’m the only member of my 
family living in San Diego/UCSD, I consider it more homey than other parts of the U.S.
tUCSD may have beautiful students, faculty and staff, but the administration sees me as 
nothing. They only want to profit from my money. UCSD is an institution that refuses to 
acknowledge me, actively listen to me and make a change to meet my demands of making 
the university value students’ ideas, contributions and well-being. UCSD was not founded 
for me or other queer trans brown femme students in non-STEM fields.
tI don’t consider UCSD home yet because it is so big and even when I come back to my 
dorm, it doesn’t feel like home. I don’t feel completely relaxed here. Maybe because I live 
with so many girls in my suite and it can get stressful a lot of the time.
tI grew up in San Diego, and the area north of UCSD is “my spot, ” but UCSD itself just 
feels like a strange place to call home because I essentially work and live in the same place. 
There is no separation of personal “home and school” (made apparent by 9 p.m. midterms 
and Saturday morning tests).
tUCSD is affiliated with school and the hardships of college. Going back to where I grew 
up during my breaks, my home is affiliated with freedom and happiness.
tThe energy is horrible on campus: everyone is anxious, stressed and wanting to go home.
Is there anything UCSD can do to 
make you feel more at “home”?Why do you consider UCSD/
San Diego “home”?   CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
CAMERA LUCIDA
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 15 - MAY 212017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 5.15 WED5.17MONDAY 5.15  • 7:30pm
THU5.18
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE5.16
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
2:30pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
EARL'S BIRTHDAY EXTRAVAGANZA 
- CANYON VISTA
You are invited to join the Warren Residential Life 
Community as we celebrate the 126th birthday of 
our namesake, Earl Warren! Prepare to journey 
into a galaxy far far away for Earl's Birthday 
Extravaganza in the Canyon Vista Dining Hall, 
Yosemite Room on May 17th from 5-8pm! There 
will be crafting stations, a photo booth, free 
giveaways, live performances, and MORE! 
Contact: jviernes@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/16984576368
35643/
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS: RED 
FISH BLUE FISH - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
UC San Diego's own percussion ensemble red 
fish blue fish will return for another performance 
in the Conrad Prebys Concert Hall. Directed by 
Distinguished Professor Steven Schick, the 
ensemble's program will include: - Aura by Anna 
Thorvaldsdottir - the world premiere of a new 
work by Annie Hui-Hsin Hsieh - Darkness by 
Franco Donatoni Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu 
Website: 
http://musicweb.ucsd.edu/c/20170517-WEDS7rf
bfUCSD BLOOD BASH 2017 - RED 
SHOE/BEAR ROOM (MON. TUES. 
WED. AND FRI), DOLORES HUERTA 
ROOM (THURS.) MULTIPLE 
LOCATIONS
Red Cross at UCSD is hosting its third annual 
weeklong blood drive event. This is the LARGEST 
blood donation event in SoCal! San Diego county 
is still in a blood deficit crisis due to the Zika 
virus rendering numerous individuals ineligible 
to donate. As the primary supplier of blood to the 
entire UCSD Health System, the American Red 
Cross is in dire need. Patients who need a blood 
transfusion in order to LIVE might not be able to 
get one because there simply isn't enough blood 
in our reserves, so we are forefronting this effort 
once again to mitigate this dangerous crisis. Our 
goal is to collect 400 units, which has the 
potential to SAVE 1200 LIVES. Red Shoe/Bear 
Room (Mon. Tues. Wed. and Fri) Dolores Huerta 
Room (Thurs) Contact: ssedighi@ucsd.edu 
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: 
BLUEBERRY BREAKFAST 
COOKIES - THE ZONE
Join us as we learn to make blueberry breakfast 
cookies! Materials and ingredients are provided. 
Space is limited, first come, first served. 
Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS 
CEREMONY - THE LOFT
We invite the USCD community to attend our 
Annual 2017 Sustainability Awards! Please 
RSVP no later than May 8 at the link here: 
https://goo.gl/forms/R7ASwVXRVHiv5ZAi1 We 
will be honoring the following recipients: 1. 
Campus Vendor My Green Lab 2. Department 
Integrated Procure-to-Pay Solutions 3. Faculty 
Dr. Seth Cohen 4. Staff Alison Sanchirico 5. 
Student Mukta Kelkar 6. Student Group Food 
Recovery Network *Food & refreshments will be 
provided10am
UCSD FARMERS' MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic 
food vendors have a little something for 
everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our 
all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town 
Square on Myers Drive.
11am
ART & SOUL: MAGAZINE 
COLLAGE - THE ZONE
Using magazine cutouts create a collage to 
express your dynamic personality! Workshops are 
free; all supplies and materials provided. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
4pm
ACCB PRESENTS: FIND YOUR 
ROOMMATE - THE LOFT
Looking for a roommate for next year? Have no 
fear, we are here! Join us for a roommate mixer 
with FREE food and drinks! Make sure to register 
HERE so we can help you find your perfect 
roommate! Register HERE: 
http://bit.ly/UCSDRoommateMixer FREE 4-6PM 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/25457695167
8074/
6:30pm
FREE GRE WORKSHOP BY 
PRINCETON REVIEW - EARL 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PC 
WEST
* Learn about the GRE, whats on the GRE, how to 
get into your top choice graduate program * Do 
practice problems together and get strategy tips. 
* Win Princeton Review books Contact: 
getinvolved@ucsd.edu
7pm
INTERNATIONAL IDOL TALENT 
SHOW - GREAT HALL
Have a cool talent you'd like to show off?? 
I-House and Outreach Coordinators are so excited 
to bring you the second annual International Idol, 
a talent show to showcase for you to showcase 
what you're best at! The event is coming up soon 
and we want YOU to perform!! The event will 
take place in Great Hall on May the 16th 7-9pm! 
Thanks and we can't wait to see your awesome 
talents! Contact: muiroutreach@ucsd.edu 
Website: SAT5.06
9am
UC SAN DIEGO DESIGN 
CONFERENCE - PRICE CENTER 
THEATRE
The entire campus community is invited to join 
the inaugural UC San Diego Design Conference to 
learn about design in the professional world and 
what that entails. The event will include a keynote 
talk with Michael Meyer, as well as discussions 
with industry-leading panelists and workshops to 
bolster your design thinking skills. The 
conference, co-organized by Design at UCSD and 
Delta Sigma Pi, will also include an opportunity to 
network with professionals from Workday, IDEO 
and other design-centric companies. Contact: 
designatucsd@gmail.com Website: 
http://ucsddesignconf.com/5pm
THE LIFE SKILLS SERIES: 
FINANCIAL LITERACY FOR 
COLLEGE STUDENTS - 
COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
This workshop provides the tools and 
information young adults need to begin their 
financial life on the right track. Contact: 
violetag@ucsd.edu
8pm
COLLEEN AT ARTPOWER - THE 
LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
UCSD Student: $9 Over the course of five 
albums, French artist Colleen  s (aka Cécile 
Schott) musical repertoire has featured baroque 
instruments like the viola de gamba as well as 
modified music boxes and wind chimes, as she 
has pushed the boundaries of their playability. 
Using effects pedals and dub influences, Colleen 
powerfully blends the mythic, organic, and 
internal to weave and create intricate music 
about the human mind and heart. Contact: 
artpower@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://artpower.ucsd.edu/event/colleen/FRI5.17
3pm
ORGAN-ON-A-CHIP: A MORE 
ECONOMICAL, ETHICAL, AND 
EFFECTIVE MODEL - NATURAL 
SCIENCES BUILDING AUDITORIUM
Free and open to all students and members of the 
community. Leaders in the field will come talk 
about this cutting edge technology. Free food will 
be provided to those who RSVP . Contact: 
terraszz@yahoo.com Website: 
http://bit.do/ucsd-ooc
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Radiant
6. Get sentimental
10. __ mater
14. Encouraging word
15. Creme-filled snack
16. ‘’Hud’’ actress
17. Profit excessively
20. Genesis locale
21. __ rule (generally)
22. Have a chat with
23. Short 40 Down
25. Top-drawer
26. Unscrupulous sales tactic
31. Sheds feathers
32. Palette choices
33. Soft squeeze
35. Yawl or yacht
36. Black-tie affairs
38. Tomato variety
39. PIN demander
40. Swing around
41. Greek fabulist
42. Type of fire truck
46. Drops in the air
47. Left dumbstruck
48. Toward the rudder
51. Major-leaguer
52. Bill bundles
56. Passé recording media
59. ‘’Shall We Dance?’’ star
60. No longer on the market
61. Put up
62. Gloss over
63. Baum pooch
64. Frizzy dosDown
1. Up to the task
2. Lattice
3. Walkway
4. Kitchen accessory
5. Wine and dine
6. Enters
7. Astronomical bear
8. Equinox mo.
9. Nocturnal hunters
10. Bobbysock
11. Scallion relative
12. Cartoonist Groening
13. In addition
18. Grandma
19. Dog genus
24. ‘’__ Not Unusual’’
25. Atlas section
26. Phone enclosure
27. 1836 battle site
28. Rationed (out)
29. Made a pick
30. Bookstore section
31. Wharton deg.
34. Opening
36. ‘80s Soviet policy
37. Eller, in ‘’Oklahoma!’’
38. Proxima Centauri, for one
40. Pants alternative
41. Sweetened beverage
43. Eggy dish
44. Texas city
45. Roll call no-show
48. Golden Fleece craft
49. Look
50. Actress Garr
51. Hit with hailstones
53. Simon Says player
54. Art style, familiarly
55. Atl. crossers, once
57. Kanga’s kid
58. Wonderland drinkLEGAL
Social Security DisabilitySSI - Been Denied 
NEVER Give Up Appeal Today Don t Give 
Up Thousands of dollars in backpay No 
Fee EVER unless you win Hearing sched -
uled No Attorney NEVER Go Al Free 
Attorney Advice Call for information 
() - Images and contact information on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 304329790 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Birth Defects Attorney At Your Service - 
Contact Us ASAP - NEWS ALERT: SEVERE 
WARNING ISSUED By The United States 
FDA (Food Drug Administration)! Popular 
antidepressants, SSRI’s and anti-seizure 
medications on the market today may 
pose serious side effects and perma -
nent and potentially fatal birth defects 
in infants. If you think you or someone 
you know have experienced adverse 
effects or suffered injuries after taking 
medications for; Depression Seizures 
Migraines Epilepsy Anxiety Disorder Or 
Many Others... CALL http://www.birth -
defectsettlement.com at (866) 710-XXXX 
or fill out the form IMMEDIATELY to get 
the most current legal details about 
YOUR POSSIBLE MEDICAL CONDITIONS 
and what to do to GET compensated. 
FREE Instant Case Review CALL (866) 710-
XXXX NATIONWIDE ATTORNEY NETWORK 
AVAILABLE FOR OUTSIDE OF CALIFORNIA 
RESIDENTS - CALL (866) 710-XXXX Listing 
ID: 308816627 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Barrett Law Office - Attorney William 
J. Barrett graduated from Syracuse 
University College of Law and has been 
practicing since his admission to the New 
York State Bar in February of . His practice 
is focused in the fields of Family Law 
Matrimonial Divorce Law and the defense 
of individuals charged with crimes from 
felonies to traffic infractions.... Images and 
contact info on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 305157106 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 
plus lights with shutters and mounts. All 
three are working and are in attractive condition. They come with a pelican case 
and ballast. They all have bulbs and some 
lighting accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing 
ID: 306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. Perfect 
for tripods, light stand or whatever you 
need to ship. Professional travel case with 
wheels for easy transport. This is the only 
case to use for airline travel. It protects 
your valuable equipment and is easy to 
handle. Made from ABS plastic, this case 
is just about indestructible. Travel storage 
case is four feet tall and twelve inches in 
diameter. It holds approximately six light 
stands. Listing ID: 306503235 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FINANCIAL
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy $500  - Looking for 
Inexpensive Bankruptcy? At the VC Law 
Group, we offer free consultations and 
fees for no-asset Chapter 7 cases start 
at just $500.00. Please call our office at 
(858) 519-7333 and speak to attorney Vik 
Chaudhry to set up your free consultation 
today. We are a debt relief agency. We help 
people file for bankruptcy relief under 
tListing ID: 305984001 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Flat Fee Eviction Lawyers - Landlords, 
do you need quick, efficient and afford -
able eviction legal services? We can help 
immediately. At the VC Law Group, we can 
handle your eviction proceedings timely 
and correctly. Best of all, we offer flat fees. 
Dont hesitate to call (858) 519-7333 to 
speak with attorney Vik Chaudhry and 
to schedule your free consultation today. 
Listing ID: 305138482 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
No Risk Investment - save for your future!  - 
Looking for a low to no risk way to invest a 
little money in this unstable economy and earn interest? Whether you are saving for 
college, a new car, home, retirement, etc. 
the stock market is a risky venture right 
now. Profitable Sunrise is an established 
and stable company that helps small busi -
ness start-ups and they offer a personal 
investment option. Sign up today and 
receive 2.17% on your investment. Its not 
a huge interest rate because there is 0 risk 
and your investment is insured as backed 
up similar to how a bank would do it. 
Start with as little as $10 or go up and do 
a long haul investment ($500 minimum) 
for a higher interest rate. I started with 
just $15 and have earned $0.66 in two 
days. Once you make your investment 
back you can reinvest to continue earn -
ing more money. Visit https://www.prof -
itablesunrise.com/?upline=Jenashlock for 
more details! This is NOT a MLM company, 
a get rich quick scheme, or scam. Just a 
no risk investment opportunity to help 
save for your future. Listing ID: 308816626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Level: 1234SUDOKU
20%
Student
Discount
With a valid student ID, get 20% off 
your entire purchase every 
Wednesday . 
6830 La Jolla Blvd, Ste 101 
La Jolla - CA 92037   Tel:(858)291-8071
www.laclochetteducoin.com  La Clochette du CoinSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
The UC San Diego baseball 
team traveled up north to Stockton, 
California midweek to start its 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association championship run. 
At the end of the weekend it was 
the two heavyweights from their 
respective divisions battling it out 
in the final. The Tritons played six 
games in the span of four days, going 
4–2. Unfortunately, they ended the 
weekend one win short of earning the 
CCAA Championship as they took 
the final loss on Saturday against rival 
Chico State, 12–5.
Their journey to the conference 
title started on Wednesday when they faced off against Stanislaus State 
and comfortably won 6–1 behind 
a dominant pitching display from 
redshirt senior pitcher Troy Cruz. The 
right-handed pitcher allowed only a 
single run in eight innings of work 
to earn his team a comprehensive 
win. With the win, UCSD moved on 
to take on divisional rival Cal Poly 
Pomona.
The matchup against the Broncos 
came down to extra innings as the two 
teams were deadlocked at six apiece at 
the end of nine innings. The Tritons 
had the advantage for the majority 
of the game as they led from the 
start, going up 1–0 in the first inning. 
Midway through, the Tritons took a 
6–3 lead and looked on pace to get the 
victory; however, in the sixth inning Pomona cut the deficit by two, making 
the score 6–4. The score remained the 
same until the bottom of the ninth, 
when the Broncos earned two runs 
in order to tie the game up and head 
to extra innings. The Tritons, again, 
held the advantage after the 10th as 
they got two runs to go in; however, it 
was simply not enough as the Pomona 
responded with two runs over its 
own to take it another inning. As 
UCSD came up empty in the 11th, the 
Broncos knocked in a run to get the 
9–8 win.
At this point all games became 
must-wins for UCSD after the loss to 
Pomona, and the Tritons responded 
in incredible fashion as they faced 
Cal State Los Angeles and dismantled 
the competition with a 16–6 score. Another dominant pitching display 
earned UCSD the win, this time 
courtesy of redshirt junior pitcher Kyle 
Goodbrand as he pitched a no-hitter 
into the eighth to give his team a great 
score differential going into the the 
latter innings.
In the second game of the 
doubleheader on Friday, the Tritons 
had their chance at redemption 
against the Pomona Broncos. This 
time around, Pomona had no response 
for UCSD’s offense as the Tritons were 
able to hang on to a 7–3 win in order 
to keep their championship hopes 
alive.  
On Saturday, the Tritons needed 
to win against the top-seeded Chico 
State in order to have an opportunity 
to face Chico in a second game for the conference title. The Tritons took care 
of business against Chico in the first 
game as they took a comfortable 13–4 
win. With the win, UCSD earned 
the right to play Chico once again on 
Saturday. Winning two straight against 
the Wildcats offered a tall task for the 
Tritons and it showed as Chico came 
out firing in the title game, winning 
12–5 to take the conference crown. 
As a result, UCSD had to settle 
as runner-up in the conference 
tournament and now await selections 
to the NCAA West Regional, so 
check back for updates on the UCSD 
Guardian website. 
Members of the UC San Diego track 
and field team competed at the All On 
the Line Qualifier at Santa Barbara’s 
Westmont College this past weekend 
for a last-chance attempt at qualifying 
for the NCAA Championships. 
Redshirt senior pole vaulter 
Chrissi Carr, who is the only Triton to 
have already qualified for the NCAA 
Championships, took first in the pole 
vault with a 12’6.25” clearance. She 
automatically secured her spot — and 
beat her own school record — at the 
All-UC Challenge earlier this year 
with a 13’1.25” clearance. On the men’s 
side, redshirt senior pole vaulter Tim 
Schmidt finished in second place, with 
a 15’3.75” clearance. 
For the hurdling events, freshman 
hurdler Claudia Cox competed in the 
400-meter hurdles, finishing in fifth 
with a time of 1:03.78. In the men’s 400 
hurdles, freshman hurdler and jumper 
Josef Polk crossed the line at 53.80 to 
finish in fourth. Sophomore hurdler 
Nicholas Rack was runner-up in the 
100 hurdles with a time of 14.63.
Junior sprinter Paul Doan, who 
already set a provisional mark for the 100-meter run and a school record in 
the same event, finished in first place in 
10.83. His school record is 10.53, which 
was set at the Ross & Sharon Irwin 
Collegiate Scoring Meet in March. 
Senior distance runner Ella Verhees 
finished the 800-meter run in 2:19.96, 
placing her in ninth.
Senior sprinter and jumper Khalil 
Flemister earned first-place honors 
in the triple jump with a distance of 
47’3.75” . 
Senior jumper and thrower Savanna 
Forry finished in first in the high jump, 
clearing 5’5” . Last year, she earned a 
trip to the NCAA Championships and 
finished in 11th in the same event with 
a height of 5’5.75” . 
Sophomore thrower Esther Nofodji 
was the only Triton to participate in a 
throwing event. She finished in second 
in the discus with a throw of 142’0” . 
The NCAA will announce NCAA 
Championship qualifiers on Tuesday, 
May 16 on NCAA.com. Qualifiers 
will compete at the Championships 
in Tampa, Florida May 25 through 
May 27. Tritons Compete For Final Championship Spots
UCSD athletes took top spots in multiple events in an attempt to qualify for the NCAA Championships.BY  R O S I N A  G A R C I A
CO-EDITOR IN CHIEF
TRack  and  field
BASEBALL
Daniel HERNANDEZ  DAH043@ucsd,eduBY  D A N I E L  H E R N A N D E Z
SENIOR STAFF WRITERTritons Drop CCAA 
Championship Finale
PHOTO COURTESY OF HENRY CHEN
PHOTO COURTESY OF HENRY CHEN
rosina garcia  rmg008@ucsd,eduAfter a spectacular CCAA Championship run and a 13–4 victory against Chico State, UCSD dropped the finale in a rematch against the Wildcats, 12–5.SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 15, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
)LOPSURMHFWLRQILWVLQWRDORQJWUDGLWLRQRIVKDGRZDQGODQWHU QVKRZV
7KHVWXG\RIQRLVHVPXVLFDQGYRLFHVDFFRPSDQ\LQJILOPVEHIRUH 
KHOSXQGHUVWDQGWKHH[DFWHQYLURQPHQWWKHDXGLHQFHHQFRXQWHUHG
ZKHQLWZHQW´WRWKHPRYLHVµDWWKDWWLPH7KLVVWXG\UHTXLUHV XVWR
´WKLQNILOPµGLIIHUHQWO\,WPDNHVXVXQGHUVWDQGWKHUHDOSHUFH SWLRQRID
FLQHPDWRJUDSKLFVKRZRIWKH%HOOHeSRTXH 7+(-$0(6.%,1'(5/(&785(LQ/LWHUDWXUH3UHVHQWV
0$57,1%$51,(5
41,'%6+10#0&5170&(14(+./$'(14'EMEH
0DUWLQ%DUQLHULVWHDFKLQJILOPKLVWRU\DWWKH8QLYHUVLW\
/XPLqUH/\RQ+HVSHFLDOL]HGRQWKHKLVWRU\RIVRXQGLQILOPV 
WKHELRSLFVWKHVSHFWDWRUVDQG'$PRQJKLVSXEOLFDWLRQV( Q
5RXWHYHUVOHSDUODQW'HVILOPVIUDQoDLVPDGHLQ
+ROO\ZRRG/HVYHUVLRQVPXOWLSOHV%UXLWV
FULVPXVLTXHVGHILOPVHW$QDO\VHGHILOP&RQWHG·pWp GH
5RKPHUZLWK3LHUUH%H\ORW:LWK.LUD.LWVRSDQRGRXKH
ZURWH/H&LQpPD'+LVWRLUHpFRQRPLHWHFKQLTXH
HVWKpWLTXH$UPDQG&ROLQ7XHVGD\0D\
SP
7KH$WNLQVRQ3DYLOLRQDWWKH
)DFXOW\&OXE8&6DQ'LHJR 
$UHFHSWLRQZLOOIROORZWKHOHFWXUH 
)UHHDQGRSHQWRWKHSXEOLF
7KH-DPHV.%LQGHU/HFWXUHVKLS LQ/LWHUDWXUHLVPDGHSRVVLEOHE\0U%LQGHU·V
JHQHURXVEHTXHVWDQGKRQRUVKLVZLVKHVWKDWZHEULQJOHDGLQJ(X URSHDQLQWHOOHFWXDOV
WR8&6DQ'LHJRWRSURYLGHDIRUXPIRUULJRURXVGLVFXVVLRQVRI OLWHUDU\WRSLFV
&RQWDFW'HUULFN&KLQIRUUHDVRQDEOHDFFRPPRGDWLRQVWRHQDEOH\R XUDFFHVVDQGSDUWLFLSDWLRQ²
\VFKLQ#XFVGHGXThe UC San Diego women’s rowing team 
competed in the Dad Vail Regatta on 
Friday, May 12 and Saturday, May 13. 
On Friday, the Varsity Eight crew placed 
second in its heat, finishing with a time of 
6:53.911. The second-place finish sent the 
Tritons to the Grand Finals the following day. 
In the Varsity Eight DII/DIII Grand Finals, 
UCSD finished in fourth with a 6:39.931 time 
behind the University of Central Oklahoma 
(6:32.902), Florida Institute of Technology 
(6:34.816) and Mercyhurst University 
(6:38.996). 
The Varsity Four boat placed third in its heat on Friday with a time of 7:55.392, securing the 
crew a spot in the Petite Final. UCSD’s V4 crew 
finished in 7:39.623, good enough for second 
behind Mercyhurst (7:35.222). 
UCSD’s chances of securing a berth in the 
NCAA Championships increased as a result of 
the success of both crews. The qualifying teams 
will be announced on Monday, May 15 at 2 
p.m. on NCAA.com. Should the Tritons secure 
a spot, they will head to Lake Mercer in West 
Windsor, New Jersey May 26 through May 28 
for the NCAA Championships. 
Triton Boats Succeed at Regatta
UC San Diego now awaits the NCAA Championship selections on May 15.WOMEN'S ROWING
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduBY  R I C H A R D  L U
STAFF WRITERUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Rowing
Track & Field
Track & Field
Track & Field5/15
5/25
5/26
5/272 PM
TBA
TBA
TBANCAA Qualifying Announcements
AT NCAA Championships
AT NCAA Championships
AT NCAA Championships
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS