VOLUME 50, ISSUE 27   TUESDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 21, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREOSCAR 
PREDICTIONS 
THE OSCARS ARE AROUND THE 
CORNER. THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
A&E STAFF HAS YOU COVERED 
WITH THEIR PICKS FOR BEST 
DIERECTOR, BEST ANIMATED 
FILM, BEST LEAD ACTRESS 
AND ACTOR, BEST ADAPTED 
SCREENPLAY AND BEST 
PICTURE, AS WELL AS WHO 
THEY THINK WILL WIN THIS 
YEAR.
AROUND THE GLOBE  
Immigrants  are  not  the  enemy 
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
 “’M JUST GLAD THAT ARTHUR  
WAGNER , WHO CREATED , FUNDED  
AND LOVED  THE THEATER  PROGRAM  
AND THE MUTUALLY  BENEFICIAL  
RELATIONSHIP  WITH LA HOLLA  
PLAYHOUSE , WASN’T AROUND  TO SEE 
HIS LEGACY  RIPPED  APART .”
- Joe Huppert
OP-ED: THEATER DEPT.
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
A.S. COLUMN  .................. 2
CHECKS AND BALANCES..4
LIFESTYLE..................... 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. BASKETBALL  ............ 16A&E,  P AGE 8
DURING THE REGIME OF 
MAO ZEDONG IN THE 1970s, 
PAUL PICKOWICZ TRAVELED 
TO CHINA AS PART OF THE 
FIRST STUDENT DELEGATION 
TO THE THEN CLOSED-OFF 
COMMUNIST NATION. WE 
SPOKE TO PROFESSOR 
PAUL PICKOWICZ ABOUT HIS 
ADVENTURES IN CHINA AND 
THE KNOWLEDGE HE HAS 
BROUGHT TO AMERICA
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
M.  BASKETBALL
UCSd  clinches  CCAA  Ber th
sports,  P age  16PROFESSOR    PICK OWICZ
From March 4 to 5, UC San 
Diego will host its third annual “UC 
Health Hack, ” an event dedicated 
to finding solutions to integrative 
medicine and global health issues. 
UC HH is an interdisciplinary effort 
brought together by UCSD’s Health 
and Engineering World Health, an 
undergraduate student organization, 
to bring students, physicians and 
industry professionals together to 
find solutions for pressing healthcare 
problems.
The hackathon will take place over 
a course of two days, where teams 
of up to five people will collaborate, 
brainstorm, prototype and create 
projects that address critical healthcare 
issues. All teams are registered under 
one of two specific tracks, integrative medicine or global health, where they 
will focus their efforts to address an 
issue in that field. Registration for 
the health hackathon is open to all 
participants over the age of 18 and will 
be open until spots are filled.
The focus for the global health 
track is refugee health care and the 
daily challenges and struggles faced 
by refugees around the world. Local 
nonprofits such as Survivors of Torture, 
which works to provide care and 
resources for survivors of politically 
motivated torture, will provide 
guidance on cultural appropriateness 
and addressing mental health needs. 
Physicians and professors from 
UCSD’s School of Medicine who have 
first-hand experience working in low-
resourced health care settings will 
guide teams in finding the needs of 
refugee health care. 
According to the UC HH website, the goals of the hackathon 
are to “improve standards of living 
in low-resource communities through 
low-cost innovations” and to “close 
healthcare gaps from the acute care 
setting to precision medicine at 
home, empowering patients and their 
providers. ” 
The partnership with the UCSD 
Health System has opened the doors 
for collaboration and mentorship with 
many more healthcare professionals 
than in past hackathons, said Y ajur 
Maker, co-director of UC HH and 
president of EWH. He highlighted 
the range of resources available to 
hackathon participants who want to 
continue work on their project ideas 
after the hackathon has ended. 
“I am a huge advocate for 
translational medicine, not just 
medicine, ” Maker told the UCSD UCAB Grants 
Round Table 
Pizza One-Year 
Lease RenewalUCAB
The advisory board factored 
the unfinished Porter’s Pub 
space into their decision.
Last Tuesday, the University 
Centers Advisory Board decided to 
renew Round Table Pizza’s lease for one 
year, reversing a May 2016 decision not 
to renew the lease. Board members 
voted unanimously to keep the pizza 
parlor in Price Center, citing concerns 
that, due to delays in the leasing of 
the Porter’s Pub space, students 
would be without two alcohol-serving 
restaurants for a “significant” amount 
of time, according to UCAB Chair 
Luke W ang. 
The renewed lease is set to expire 
June 30, 2018. 
The earlier decision to let Round 
Table Pizza’s lease expire in June 2017 
was based on the presumption that 
a vendor would be finalized for the 
Porter’s Pub space by the end of the 
year. 
“We estimated that the pub would 
be nearing completion when Round 
Table’s lease is up, ” Wang told the 
UCSD Guardian.
When the decision not to renew 
Round Table Pizza’s lease was made 
last year, UCAB identified lukewarm 
student reception to the restaurant 
and low scores on student satisfaction 
surveys and secret shopper data. 
In choosing to extend the lease, 
UCAB also considered the unoccupied 
restaurant space in Price Center where 
D’Lush was located before being 
evicted for failure to pay rent last June, 
W ang said. 
During the one-year extension, 
University Centers and UCAB will 
work together to form a feasibility study 
on the Round Table Pizza space, which 
will better prepare the organization for 
choosing a new vendor when the lease 
expires.
The study will also help UCAB 
draft renovations for the space, which 
it hopes to undertake after Round 
Table Pizza moves out and before a 
new vendor moves in. 
“It is a very old space, ” W ang said. 
“One thing that we are discussing is 
moving the entrance of the restaurant 
to the side that’s facing Warren 
[College] to allow more direct visibility 
when people are coming from W arren 
Mall and the [Price Center] loop. ” 
Construction and leasing has 
taken longer than anticipated for the 
renovation and finalization of a vendor 
at the Porter’s Pub space as changes 
continue to be made to the lease. Each 
time a change is made by either the 
university or the vendor, the change 
must be approved by the other party. 
UCAB Vice Chair Ashley Awe said 
it is impossible to know how long it 
will be until the lease for the space 
is finalized, but that the vendor will 
be announced as soon as the lease is 
signed. 
“We cannot predict how many 
times a change will have to be made 
to the lease, causing it to go back and 
forth, ” Awe said. 
Round Table Pizza has served pizza 
and beer in Price Center for 27 years. Triton Food Pantry Finishes Construction
The Triton Food Pantry, which is heading 
into its two-year anniversary, completed 
construction last Thursday and is 
expanding its services into the former Associated 
Students Soft Reserves space. 
Renovations began over winter break and were 
scheduled to be finished by the end of break but 
were unexpectedly delayed. While the pantry has 
been running during construction, it is expected 
to use its new space and to be fully operational to 
serve as a basic needs center for students by Spring 
Quarter 2017.
The pantry, which provides emergency food 
relief to students, works on a point-based system, 
A.S. President Daniel Juarez explained.
“We’re an open-service, no questions asked. 
What that means is that students can come in and 
have 10 points, and they can get as many products 
totalling up to the 10 points that they get a week, ” 
Juarez said.
The pantry receives funds from the UC’s 
Office of the President through the Global Food 
Initiative, a program created by UCOP to help 
increase food security among students. That 
money given to UCOP through the initiative is 
then distributed to other UC campuses, where it is utilized in different ways. The pantry receives 
money from other sources as well, ranging from 
college councils to individual donations. 
“ Almost all campuses put money toward a 
pantry of some sort, which we’ve also done with 
that funding, ” Juarez said. “ A.S. [Council] puts 
some money into [the pantry], we have an in 
with the college councils. As of now each college 
council gives $1,000 for the food pantry. We 
received a couple donations as well. We’ve been 
lucky to receive that. Last year, we were able to do 
our crowdsourcing campaign to get donations, so 
that is another aspect of how we’re hoping to get 
more money. But as for next year, we need to get 
more money, our service is growing. Students are 
still growing hungry. ”
According to Juarez, the pantry received its 
highest number of visits during the Fall 2016 
academic quarter, with 3,397 visits. Some of those 
visits may have consisted of returning students. 
“Of those students, around 58 percent were 
women, 41 percent were identified as male, 40 
percent of the students were seniors, 22 were 
juniors, 11 were sophomores and 10 were 
freshmen, and 17 percent of the students were 
graduate students, ” Juarez said.B y  ARMONIE MENDEZ  CONTRIBUTING WRITERUCSD
The hackathon brings students and medical professionals together to address refugee health issues.See FOOD PANTRY , page 3
SCITECH
BY  r e b e c ca  c h o n g
SENIOR STAFF writer
BY  M A T T H E W  Z A M U D I O
NEWS EDITOR
UCSD to Host UC Health Hack Event in March 
Photo by Christian Duarte// UCSD Guardian
See HACKS , page 3ma tthew zamudio  m1zamudi@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
To set up an interview please  
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com   
or call Stefanie at 303-918-6109. Interviews will be held on  
Wednesday, February 22nd  
10:00 AM – 5:00 PM at the 
Career Development Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 3/6/17@ucsdguardian
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianHey friends, A.S. Council had 
a really short meeting this week. 
It was Adan Chavez’s last week as 
interim vice president external. I 
applaud all the work he put into 
the position and the great insights 
he cast into the nature of the role. 
Nicolas Monteiro was appointed as the new VP external. I expect to see 
great work come out of him. 
There is still time to submit 
applications for A.S. Council 
positions. Applications for A.S. 
judicial board members and Office 
of External Affairs: Legislative 
Director close Friday, Feb. 24, 2017.
Student Lobby Conference 
applications are open until the end 
of Week 7.
There was a special presentation in council on the Triton Food Pantry 
and Basic Needs by A.S. President 
Daniel Juarez and Lesly Figueroa, a 
student manager at the Triton Food 
Pantry. 
Basic Needs security usually 
approaches food and housing 
security. Juarez highlighted the 
importance of the Triton Food 
Pantry and the importance of not 
initiating a vetting process that 
may jeopardize the accessibility of the Pantry for students in need. 
Figueroa gave student testimonials 
and covered topics such as costs, 
fundraising, expansion and 
the pantry’s three-year budget. 
The full presentation can be 
provided by your college’s A.S.                                            
Council representative. A.S Council Transitions to New Vice President External
A number of student positions in A.S., including Legislative Director, are open to applicants right now until the February 24 deadline.A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.edu
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withFollow us @
on  Inst agramucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Everyone quit.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
application deadline:
sunday , February 26, 2017  
for PPLICATION QUESTIONS, Contact ASSOCIATEDSTUDENTS@ucsd.eduor the first-ever
uc student advisor!APPLY FOR
UC STUDENT
REGENTRaise your voice, leave your legacy
uc student regent:
 attend all uc board meetings maintain full voting power enjoy waived university fees
uc student advisor: 
attend all UC board meetings further supplement thE single student regent vote.With the new expansion, the 
pantry is planning to hire a basic 
needs coordinator to help implement 
programs to help limit student 
hunger.
Muir College junior Stephany 
Gonzalez, the student outreach 
manager at the pantry, told the 
UCSD Guardian that the coordinator 
position will involve assisting students 
in receiving federally mandated state 
food benefits.
“The expansion will involve 
housing and security resources, so by 
having a basic needs coordinator, this 
employee will be able to streamline 
students into CalFresh, a nutrition 
assistance program, ” Gonzalez said. 
“Students who face food insecurity 
to a higher degree will be able to 
apply to this federal-level nutrition 
assistance program. ”
The pantry encourages students 
to utilize the service when needed without having to admit their food 
insecurity. First-timers can expect a 
brief history of the pantry and an 
explanation of the service’s point-
based system.  
“Y ou get what you need, and you 
go out. We don’t want it to be an 
intimidating experience. Nobody 
has to validate themselves to get the 
help. I think for me, that is my most 
genuine belief. We’re not going to 
make you tell us why you’re food 
insecure and have to relive that. We 
want to offer the help. We want to 
make sure that help is accessible, ” 
Juarez said.
The pantry is open five days a 
week, and operates from 9 a.m. to 2 
p.m on Mondays and Wednesdays, 
2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays and from 10 a.m. to 12 
p.m. on Fridays.▶ FOOD PANTRY ,  from page 1 A Basic Needs Coordinator Will Work Out 
of  the Food Pantry to Assist Students in Need
Armonie Mendez  aemendez@ucsd.eduGuardian. “We’ve partnered with two 
incubator spaces on campus, [the Von 
Levy Center for Entrepreneurism and 
Pepper House Incubator Space] that 
winners from each track will have 
access to … including $12,000 worth 
of prizes to help these teams jumpstart 
their start ups, prototype designs and 
pitch ideas. ”
Other resources include 
the Entrepreneur Challenge, a 
collaboration between the Jacobs 
School of Engineering and Rady 
School of Management. The organizers 
will offer workshops on leadership and 
funding for semifinalists, along with 
$500 to help get their projects off the 
ground.
Niranjanaa Jeeva, co-director of 
UC HH and a past participant herself, 
described the project she created with 
her teammates W arren College junior 
Julie Yip and Muir College sophomore 
Ella Stimson to improve maternal 
health care. “The project [we] created last 
year is called the Amniotic Wrap, ” 
Jeeva said. “It was basically a wearable 
sensor blanket and sock duo to 
combat postpartum depression. The 
sock would use a pulse oximeter in 
order to measure the baby’s heart 
rate. Bluetooth devices would then 
transmit this data over to the blanket, 
which would then pulse to the beat 
of the baby’s heart rate [to] help the 
mother feel the child’s heart rate and 
would foster a connection that might 
otherwise be difficult for a mother 
struggling with PPD. ”
Jeeva explained how her experience 
in the first UC HH hackathon inspired 
her to become more involved.
“I was really nervous about 
competing [last year], but I ended up 
having so much fun I decided I wanted 
to make sure that others had a good 
experience, so I decided to take part 
in the planning process, ” Jeeva told the 
Guardian. 
Stimson, another co-director of 
the UC HH, expanded how her past experiences helped push her toward 
participating in the hackathon.
“Coming out of high school, 
Niranjanaa and I were very into 
hands-on engineering and applying 
the skills we learned in high school 
— so participating in Health Hack 
was tempting!” Stimson said. “The 
great experience from the hackathon 
brought me to get involved with 
Engineering World Health, where I 
could apply these skills further. Within 
the club, I got involved with the 
hackathon once again and am now 
helping with further developing UC 
Health Hack to be a bigger experience 
than the last. ”
Jeeva and Stimson say that once 
UC Health Hack 2017 has been 
successfully organized and executed, 
their team will continue to develop and 
prototype the Amniotic Wrap in order 
to further this project that they are all 
passionate about. ▶ HACKS,  from page 1 Semi-finalists of Entrepreneur Challenge Will Win Project Funding 
from the Rady School of Management and Jacobs School of Engineering
Rebecca chong  rcchong@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANl i k e  u s  o n  f b 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
On February 7, Mark Pence casted 
his tie-breaking vote confirming 
Betsy DeVos, a Trump appointee, as 
secretary of education. Prior to the 
appointment, DeVos was serving as a 
prominent proponent of a notorious, 
loosely-regulated Detroit charter school 
system, as well as of voucher programs. 
After the appointment, she showed her 
incompetence by failing to answer basic 
questions about educational policies 
in the Senate confirmation hearings. 
Her appointment incited protests in 
public schools and provoked many of 
her opponents to predict the disastrous 
results during the her time of service. 
Although her appointment is unlikely 
to bring any improvements into the 
nation’s school system, the ultimate destruction of public schools is unlikely 
to happen. Ironically, since the office 
of the Secretary of Education has little 
power and DeVos is too unqualified 
to bring any meaningful changes, 
her appointment, in lieu of a more 
capable candidate, might allow schools 
to survive during the tough period 
of the Trump administration, and 
even might help Democrats to get 
re-elected in the future. 
DeVos will not be able to do much 
since she had low political capital 
from the start and spent much of that 
capital on being confirmed. Detroit 
Free Press and other newspapers 
favoring public schools were driving 
public attention to the fact that her 
money and efforts are being spent on 
Detroit’s charter school system, one 
of the worst educational systems of the nation, which consistently shows 
low results and ineffective spending 
decisions. They also highlighted her ties 
to reformatory Christian organizations. 
Beyond this, the fact that she has never 
had any experience in the public school 
system, has never been an educator 
and has never worked closely with 
school curricula further diminish her 
political capital. 
The most disastrous event for 
her authority was the Senate hearing, 
where she failed to answer such basic 
questions such as the one asked by 
Sen. Al Franken, which sought her 
opinion on proficiency versus growth 
tests. Proficiency tests are tests that 
measure the results of the students in 
comparison to other students’ results, 
while growth tests measure the progress 
the students make in comparison to their own previous results. The debate 
over which one is better is among the 
hottest education topics of past three 
years, and led to the replacement of 
the No Child Left Behind Act with the 
Every Student Succeeds Act in 2015-
2016. DeVos was so unfamiliar with 
the topic that she failed to understand 
the question. This and other 
unanswered or ridiculously-answered 
questions effectively undermined her 
authority among not only educators, 
future co-workers and anti-voucher 
democrats, but even among republicans 
who initially supported her. 
Two Republican senators — Lisa 
Murkowski of Alaska and Susan 
Collins of Maine — refused to support 
the Republican Party appointee and On the morning after the 
presidential election, the UC San 
Diego Department of Theater and 
Dance laid off all 21 employees in the 
production department. Two months 
later, all but two of those employees 
had been rehired, some by La Jolla 
Playhouse, some by UCSD.
UCSD’s goal for this layoff was not 
to get rid of staff members, who are still 
necessary for a theater program, nor to 
cut labor costs. Even with draconian 
reductions in compensation, UCSD 
will be spending more for the same 
labor pool. 
The real goal was to end the 
decades old shared labor arrangement 
with La Jolla Playhouse.
UCSD had depleted the funding 
used to produce student shows. 
Production staff were concerned 
about possible cutbacks due to this 
budget issue, but in August a deal was 
announced between the department, 
the Chancellor and the EVC that 
would provide substantial funding for 
production over the next five years. 
What wasn’t announced was that 
the deal also involved an end to the 
sharing relationship.
Over the three months between 
this deal and the layoffs, there was 
no discussion of the separation plan 
with faculty, staff or students, and 
none after it was implemented. It has 
never been adequately explained how 
ending the shared labor system would 
benefit UC. 
It certainly doesn’t benefit the 
academic mission. The students and 
faculty would lose, in the middle of 
the academic year and onward, the 
expertise of a team that also supported 
one of the top regional theaters in 
the country. The theater department 
provided staff mentors who were 
current on best practices and who 
used their professional contacts to help many students start 
their careers.
It doesn’t benefit the staff either. 
If rehired by UCSD, they would have 
their compensation dramatically 
reduced by up to 40 percent. As 
there were no guarantees at UC, they 
would have to look for work over 
the holidays when both theater and 
academia usually hire in the spring 
and summer. If not rehired, they 
would lose all benefits on January 31, 
including health care. Most really had 
no choice but to wait and hope to get 
hired into the new jobs despite the 
pay cuts. 
The hiring process itself was 
disorganized, which made the stress 
even worse. LJP had no plan for this 
reorganization despite knowing about 
it well in advance. UC changed the 
plan several times after the layoffs 
so people couldn’t be sure of the 
parameters of the jobs they were being 
asked to apply for: Some people didn’t 
find out until January 8 whether or not 
they would still have jobs in La Jolla, or 
what exactly those jobs would be. 
The only apparent beneficiary was 
La Jolla Playhouse. Despite repeated 
denials, LJP management wanted out 
of the sharing arrangement and had 
begun the process unilaterally. UC was auditing the financial relationship 
between the two, especially 
compensation for shared employees, 
and ending the relationship would end 
those questions. The layoffs were also 
conveniently timed to coincide with 
LJP union contract negotiations due to 
conclude in December, as well as a lull 
in their production schedule. 
It’s pretty mystifying that this 
action was taken in such a rushed, 
secretive way to benefit a third party 
at the expense of students, faculty and 
staff. When a third party benefits from 
UC resources through an existing 
agreement, like LJP and its investors 
making millions of dollars from shows 
produced using UC facilities and UC 
staff, it’s okay because that’s the deal 
the Regents made. But when UC 
people and programs are hurt by back 
door deals without formal agreements 
or explanation, that’s not okay. 
A conspiracy theorist might 
look for connections between senior 
administrators and LJP. I prefer the 
more innocent view that UC needed 
to protect itself from liabilities at the 
Playhouse and handled the whole 
thing badly.
UC was dealing with many serious 
complaints of abusive behavior by 
Playhouse employees toward UC staff. Through a combination of 
incompetence and hostility, Playhouse 
managers had destroyed the working 
relationship between the two entities, 
and UC staff were caught in the 
middle. Supervisors in charge of 
both LJP and UC staff were unable 
to protect their people or themselves. 
They were attacked for trying to follow 
UC policy and maintain standards, 
and for fulfilling their obligations 
to students and faculty. Playhouse 
managers used every trick in the book 
to pressure senior staff to leave, and 
were caught lying outright in efforts to 
compromise joint staff careers. 
Though the university continued 
providing millions of dollars in 
subsidies to the Playhouse, the 
administration was unwilling to use 
that leverage to fix the problems.   
So UC pulled the plug. Rather than 
responding to whistleblower tips and 
formal complaints on behalf of their 
employees, they fired them all and 
gave LJP what it wanted.
As we say in the theater, no one 
died, but the impact will be around for 
a long time. The theater department, 
which was already suffering from 
neglect, will never be the same. The 
experienced staff will turn over as 
people forced to accept huge cuts in 
pay find new jobs in the spring. Costs 
will go up and, without aggressive 
action, standards will go down for 
both LJP and UC. 
Eventually, it will all probably work 
out and people will forget about this 
as staff and students — the ones most 
hurt by this — move on. New people 
won’t know what the department 
could have been. I’m just glad that 
Arthur Wagner, who created, funded 
and loved the theater program and the 
mutually beneficial relationship with 
La Jolla Playhouse, wasn’t around to 
see his legacy ripped apart. 
DeVos’s Capacity for Damage Limited by Low 
Political Capital, Checks & Balances
BY RIVKA GERSHOVICHAs we say in the theater, no 
one died, but the impact will 
be around for a long time. The 
theater department, which was 
already suffering from neglect, 
will never be the same.    I have been an immigrant almost 
all my life. I was born in France and 
moved around quite a bit. I lived for 
a year in Hong Kong, then eight in 
Munich Germany and four back home 
in Paris before settling down in San 
Francisco when I was 15. Now, at age 
20, I have been living outside my birth 
country for close to three quarters of 
my life. I have been some sort of an 
outsider for most of my life, yet never 
have I felt so distressed as during these 
past two weeks. However, despite 
my status as an immigrant, and now a 
permanent resident of this country, I 
have never really been targeted by any 
discriminatory immigration laws.
   The so-called “Muslim Ban” does 
not affect me. I am neither muslim, nor 
was I born in one of the seven coun -
tries targeted by it. I am also a male, 
heterosexual and white. I am usually 
not affected by any negative stereotype, 
unless you consider a French person 
eating baguette, frog legs, camembert 
and drinking wine negative. What I 
mean to say is that even though I was 
not directly affected by all the negativ -
ity surrounding the simple word “immi -
grant” in the current political context, 
I am emotionally scared and saddened 
by what is going on right now.
   We wrote on this column a while ago 
that even though then-President Obama 
pledged to welcome over 10,000 Syrian 
refugees to the United States, it was not 
nearly enough. Immigrants built this 
country. Immigrants, most of whom 
were outcasts of society back in their 
home countries in Europe, were wel -
comed into the United States. It used 
to be the country of new beginnings, of 
new chances, a country far away with 
the promise of a better life. And I cer -
tainly felt that way when I came here 
at 15. The United States was a foreign 
land to me, with a language I did not 
know and a culture I was ignorant of. 
But I grew into it, and as a green card 
holder, am now proudly attending UC 
San Diego. 
   There is so much wrong with the 
Muslim Ban, but what I realized most 
poignantly is that those rights and op -
portunities could be taken away from 
immigrants as easily as that. Again, I 
am not here pretending I am at risk of 
being deported or will not be allowed 
into the country in the future, like many 
undocumented immigrants. Still, when 
laws specifically target and discrimi -
nate against immigrants, I find myself 
at a loss for words. I am sincerely 
concerned for all immigrants in this 
country. I am in shock and angered that 
in the 21st century, the president of a 
country like the United State could still 
present laws discriminating against 
a specific group of people. That is, 
the leader of one nation, under God, 
promising he will keep out all terrorists 
to protect America. What’s omitted and 
erased by fabricated accounts of terror -
ism like the Bowling Green Massacre 
is the fact that immigrants and refugees 
go through several background checks 
and lengthy application processes to get 
into this country. In fact no immigrant 
from the seven countries banned 
have killed on U.S. soil since 1975. A 
universal background check is only in 
place in eight states when it comes to 
buying guns, and there have been over 
1.5 million gun deaths in the United 
States since 1968.
   This last example and the figures are 
really self-explanatory. Immigrants are 
not the enemy. They are “safe.” They 
are the glue to this country and con -
tribute everyday to creating a thriving 
economic, social and cultural environ -
ment. I am a proud immigrant, and like 
so many others, I only want to bring 
good into this country, and no one can 
tell me otherwise, not even the man I 
now have to call the president. Layoffs 
Affecting 
Theater 
Production 
Staff at UCSD 
Lacked TactOP-ED
OPINION
The Muslim Ban: 
Un-American and 
Unproductive
BY JOE HUPPERT 
DEPT. OF THEATERE AND DANCE, SOUND SUPERVISORMarcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
See CHECKS & BALANCES  page 5Illustration by 
David G. JuarezOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/Homeproclaimed her as unqualified, 
further challenging the influence 
she will be able to exercise as the 
secretary of education.
If Trump were to choose a more 
popular and qualified candidate for 
the position, he would be much more 
effective in implementing his agenda. 
However, he was unable to choose such 
an appointee, and his present pick 
will not be an aid in putting his ideas 
into fruition. 
More fundamentally, even though 
DeVos seems to be in an important 
position on federal level, her office 
itself does not give her much power in 
shaping public education.
Because of the 10th Amendment 
to the Constitution, the major role in 
creating educational policies is given 
to states and districts. This supreme 
role of local governments was further 
emphasized in the Every Student Succeeds Act, and was later reaffirmed 
by Betsy DeVos herself. Furthermore, 
in the highly decentralized U.S. 
Department of Education, the system 
of checks and balances works very well. 
The actual functions of the Secretary 
of Education entail advising to the 
president or, in practice, transmitting 
the president’s position, along 
with many technical duties, such as 
coordinations of department activities. 
In other words, the secretary of 
education does not actually decide on 
or implement the policies — these are 
the prerogatives of the deputy secretary 
for elementary and middle school and 
the under secretary for high school 
and postsecondary education. DeVos 
lacks the ability to implement a federal 
voucher program since it is already 
the realm of Congress to implement 
federal programs. Instead, the secretary 
of education is a public and technical 
position. Unless the secretary has the personal charisma and authority within 
a department — which DeVos does 
not — the secretary does not have 
any real power. 
Betsy DeVos is nothing more 
than an irksome parasite and her 
appointment might ironically help 
to protect schools from Trump’s 
destructive idea. However, even though 
her ultimate ineffectiveness and lack of 
power should give us hope, it is not yet 
time to relax. As a public figure, DeVos 
might have influence on Congress and 
local educational leaders. Therefore 
we should unite together to prevent 
her from destroying our public school 
system, and help children of color, 
those with disabilities, and all other 
underrepresented groups of students to 
endure through this tough period and 
to succeed academically.▶ CHECKS & BALANCES , from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
Got letter S?
email us at opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publi Sh them .
Rivka Ger shovich    revekka97@gmail.com   6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Out of the hundreds of students in his lecture at a small Western Massachusetts college, Paul Pickowicz sat 
toward the back. He was a quiet student, barely noticeable among the bustling crowds that would swell 
in and out of the room — he barely wanted to be there to begin with. Time spent in classrooms and with 
the endless piles of reading was time that was taken away from tossing a ball around under clear blue skies. 
Yet, there was something about the way the professors talked — so full of authority and rich with knowledge 
— that inspired Pickowicz from the back of the class. Eventually, Pickowicz gave up his dreams of becoming a star 
athlete; there were always those who did better than him, who were more athletic than he was. But the inspiration 
that his professors gave him from the front of the classroom became a part of his very being--so much so that one 
day he would point to them and say, “I want to be like you. ”
Pickowicz began his life and career as the underdog. He came from an immigrant family; his mother’s family 
escaped from the Irish Potato Famine, and his father’s family came from Ukraine on the eve of World War I. Of 
his parents and four siblings, Pickowicz was the first and only one to graduate with a college degree.
“I didn’t get any advice from my parents, they just didn’t know what to tell me … I never visited any of the 
schools … but I ended up going to a small college in Western Massachusetts. I did my B.A. degree there, and I 
thought I was going to be a star athlete there, but it didn’t work out, ” he said with a small chuckle. 
Thus it was in the classrooms of that small college — rather than out on the fields — that Pickowicz began 
his life’s work. Toward the end of his sophomore year in college, Pickowicz had the opportunity to go on a trip 
to Europe with his American history professor for a year, an event that he refers to as the “luckiest thing that 
happened to him at the time. ”
“I had never been out of New England my whole life … He wanted to take everybody to Scotland and, to me, it 
might as well have been the moon. It was just, wow, I got really excited. And, you know, my parents couldn’t really 
understand … but it changed my whole life. To this day. To this day, the impact of that, I cannot stop traveling … 
I wanted to see every country in the world. ” 
Going on the trip, Pickowicz felt as if his eyes were opened to the world. Travel exposed him not only to other 
cultures and peoples, but also to books and learning. Paul found himself in an age of discovery, one that eventually 
led to his interest in China. It was 1966 and the topic of every newspaper and radio broadcast was the Cultural 
Revolution (the movement that purged all capitalist elements and promoted Communism) in China. China was 
the center of the world’s attention yet, like North Korea today — completely shadowed in secrecy. This only 
spurred his interest further. 
“I started picking books in the bookstore and reading about China. I just couldn’t get enough! The more I read, 
the more I wanted to read. And when I got back to my own campus in senior year, that was it. I just had to take 
every class I could take on Asia … I couldn’t get enough. And I decided that this is what I wanted to do with my 
life. I wanted to be a professor like the people who inspired me. ” 
Pickowicz went on to get his masters degree at Tufts University and his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin, 
where he worked on his dissertation, which focused on Chinese Communist leader Qu Qiubai. Research for 
his dissertation led him to travel all over Asia, beginning in Japan, then to Taiwan and then for a full year to 
Hong Kong. However, information on the subject of his dissertation, China, could still only be found in books. 
Pickowicz wouldn’t give up. He gathered a group of graduate students all yearning to see the untouched country 
and put together a letter to the Chinese government asking for access into their country. To their great surprise, BEHIND THE LECTERN
Paul Pickowicz- Thirty Steps to the FrontBy Madeline Park  / / Contributing Writer
SeePICKOWICZ , page 7Pickowicz meets Chou En-lai in the great hall of the people. Photo courtesy of the UCSD Guardian archivesFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
BEHIND THE LECTERN
Paul Pickowicz- Thirty Steps to the Front
Madeline P ark  map048@ucsd.eduthe Chinese government consented. In 1971, Pickowicz 
became part of the first American student delegation to 
visit China. 
“Even though it was a carefully guided trip and 
you were just taken into these model units … you got 
enough taste of being on location, of having your feet on 
the ground, talking to people… It generated this hope 
that maybe someday in the future it’ll be possible to do 
grassroots historical studies [in China]. ” 
Still, it wasn’t until 1978 that Pickowicz was able to 
make a real breakthrough in his studies. With the close 
of the Cultural Revolution and Mao’s death came the 
idea of opening up China to the outside world. It was 
a time when letting the truth come out was not viewed 
negatively but instead positively. Seizing the opportunity, 
Pickowicz put forth a proposal to do some field research 
in an outlying village. For the second time, Pickowicz was 
the very first to receive a “go-ahead” from the Chinese 
government for his project. 
“It wasn’t easy … but it was very exciting, ” he said with 
a small laugh. “We went to a village. They didn’t have any 
running water, … electricity [and] there was no way to 
take a shower! But this is the way everybody lived, so what 
was the big deal? … But you felt great because you were 
there! … But because this hadn’t been done before, people 
were very careful about what they told you. But you keep 
on going back and they get to know your personality … 
and sometimes I would interview people over a period of 
10 years. The more that people got to know you, the more 
they knew about what you were doing, and the more they 
liked what you were doing. ” 
Fast forward 20 years and Pickowicz wrote two books 
on this one village and its history. One of his books, 
“Chinese Village, Socialist State, ” was awarded the Joseph 
R. Levenson Prize of the Association for Asian Studies 
in 1993 and became immensely popular among the rural 
society of China.
Alongside this project, Paul worked on a separate 
project — one completely different from the realistic 
scenes of village life. It involved the world of fiction — 
the world of film. In 1982, Pickowicz got a grant from the 
Chinese government and, in another first, gained access 
to film archive of China. Slowly, he was able to collect 
his own archive of videos, which he used to set up a class 
here at UC San Diego. Being a professor here, Pickowicz 
wanted to use this class to encourage students to probe 
cultural and social history.
“More than 20 years ago, I said to myself, ‘I want to 
teach a class on early-era Chinese film. ’ Nobody knows 
anything about it. You know, early Chinese film was great 
but nobody knows about it! … [They] were great precisely 
because they dealt head on with all the gut wrenching 
social, political, economic and cultural traumas people 
were going through at that time. For better or worse, 
China at that time was confronted by the powerful 
currents of a very complicated global modernity … I kept 
telling the Chinese authorities, ‘You’re so restrictive on 
film access. It’s a great pity because people should know 
how interesting the early film industry was. ’ So I started 
teaching this class. And it got a big response. ”
This class was revolutionary. Because of the lack of 
knowledge on the subject, broke ground and gained a 
huge response from the student body. In fact, it garnered 
so much attention that Pickowicz got invitations from 
schools around the world — as far away as Germany, 
Scotland and China — to teach it. However, knowledge of 
Chinese film is not the only thing that Pickowicz wished 
to impart upon his students. 
“The lasting influence that we [as professors] want to 
have on people is to have respect for all of the conditions 
that exist all around the world. You know, be a little bit 
modest. Be a little bit humble. Don’t assume you know 
everything and that everyone else doesn’t … We have 
differences, but don’t forget what we all share in common. 
You can connect to people, you can understand people 
better if your mind is open. That’s the bottom line — keep 
your mind open. ” 
Several years have passed since Pickowicz last sat in 
the back of a lecture hall — he can no longer maintain 
the “low-profile” status within the classroom that he once 
held. In his journey of 30-something steps from the back 
to the front of the lecture hall he has opened his eyes to 
the world around him and found a new appreciation for 
people’s differences. Paul Pickowicz: news junkie, travel 
bug and explorer is not the same as he once was. But 
maybe that’s okay. 
▶ PICKOWICZ , from page 6
Pickowicz’s trip to China was featured in a 1981 issue of The Guardian. Photo courtesy of the UCSD Guardian archives
A farmer in Wugong, the village where Pickowicz studied. Photo courtesy of the UCSD Guardian archives
A peasant from Xian, Shaanki province. Photo courtesy of the UCSD Guardian archivesIsabelle Huppert is, as they say en France, the creme de la creme. The French 
star’s notoriety for selecting complicated, burdensome roles is manifested 
completely in “Elle. ” She plays “Michèle, ” a successful video-game designer 
who develops a twisted, corrosive relationship with her rapist, ruthlessly 
refusing victimization. Portraying a woman who pursues intimacy with 
her attacker without fetishizing rape is no easy task, but Huppert 
manages to humanize a wildly messy character and a film potentially 
too unfathomable to swallow with nuance and wit. She is starkly 
revealing without attempting explanation or justification. The film’s 
success as a thriller-comedy hybrid owes itself primarily to her 
masterful shapeshifting — intermittent moments of humor make 
her performance inviting and all the more unsettling. Huppert’s 
mind-bending embodiment of moral perversity and flawed 
humanity blurs standards of judgement and showcases the 
depth of her brilliance. The Academy could do with some of 
her bravery in selecting a winner this year. 
 
—   Ma y a  Kleiman
Contributing WriterA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKENDThe “La La Land” hype is at fever pitch, but the fact that it was even made is no small feat. Director Damien 
Chazelle was repeatedly turned down when he approached studios with this project since, unsurprisingly, no one 
thought a contemporary musical would be profitable. It wasn’t until he directed his breakthrough film “Whiplash” 
in 2014 that Chazelle was finally able to make “La La Land. ” Despite being pushed by studio heads to compromise 
vital elements of the film, Chazelle persevered, and his dedication to preserving the aesthetics of old Hollywood in a 
modern story is commendable. From the breathtaking opening number all the way to the heartfelt ending, Chazelle 
displays his artistry with dazzling single takes, bursts of color and enchanting dance sequences that celebrate Los 
Angeles and the dreamers who chase the city’s promise of success. “La La Land” got an entire generation excited about 
silver-screen musicals again, and it would only be fitting that Chazelle win an Oscar to top off his own Hollywood 
story.
—   Ell ysa Lim
 Senior Staff Writer
Casey, the less muscled of the two Affleck brothers, has long thrived in his 
niche of low-budget dramas by high-minded directors. Whether it’s his turn 
to be a coward, a cheat or a liar, Casey imbues his performances with an 
academic understanding of sympathy that pulls on our pity with tact. In 
“Manchester by the Sea, ” director Kenneth Lonergan tackles grief head-on 
by having Casey’s morose Lee Chandler parcel out the consequences of 
his own heart-wrenching mistakes into a lifestyle defined by that regret. 
Chandler, a former family man and now an aspiring hermit/handyman, 
goes back to see the people of Manchester-by-the-sea he left behind 
in search of solitude. Once back, he retreats into his shoulders — 
devoid of most human expression outside of the “mildly displeased” 
to “mildly pleased” range — and brushes off the need for minor 
human conveniences like conversation. Chandler, simply said, is 
clemency characterized.
—  Sam Velazquez  
A&E EditorGUARDIAN NOMINATION
Damien Chazelle
GUARDIAN NOMINATION
Casey Affleck
GUARDIAN NOMINATION
Hell or High WaterLIKELY WINNER
 Damien Chazelle
LIKELY WINNER
 Ryan Gosling
LIKELY WINNER
La La LandThe year of 2016 was barren for animated cinema. Ranging from some shameless, money-grubbing 
adaptations to two noteworthy Disney films, there was very little to consider worthy of a prestigious title. Enter 
“Kubo and the Two Strings. ” Displaying an unbending desire to present a masterpiece, the artists of Laika toiled 
to produce a marvel. Their trials with past works allowed them to realize a tale reminiscent of aweing short 
stories. “Kubo” is a wonderful fable that synergizes aspects of Japanese culture with an underappreciated, yet 
ornate art form. The mixture of warm and cool colors with incredible claymation seems to transcend the fictional 
dimension and enter the real world. Bolstering this are sound performances by Parkinson and cast, and a well-
articulated odyssey about the significance of one’s humanity. While certainly not a magnum opus, “Kubo” bodes 
well for Laika’s future endeavours. 
—   Da vid  de  Leon
 Contributing WriterGUARDIAN NOMINATION
Kubo and the Two 
Strings
GUARDIAN NOMINATION
Isabelle HuppertLIKELY WINNER
 Kubo and the Two 
Strings
LIKELY WINNER
 Emma StoneBEST 
ANIMATED 
FILMBEST 
DIRECTOR
BEST LEAD ACTOR BEST LEAD ACTRESS
BEST 
PICTUREEric Heisserer, the screenwriter of “ Arrival, ” had the task of lifting the linguistic and deterministic themes 
from Ted Chiang’s “Story of Y our Life, ” the short story upon which the film was based, while telling a story that is 
both cinematic and emotional. What is most remarkable about this film is not only its reimagination of the alien-
encounter genre but its narrative and thematic coherence. Themes are filtered through moments, characters and 
other themes, the result of extraordinary top-down and bottom-up storytelling. Thus, “ Arrival” manages to be a 
large-scale spectacle while keeping the emotional focus on the character of Louise Banks, a linguist working to 
understand the alien language. It manages to explore language, not only the language of communication but also 
the language of film, while keeping its focus on an intriguing alien encounter. Heisserer was able to build a ship 
inside of a bottle, a paradoxical construction whose wonder derives from its inexplicable coherence.
 
—   Naft ali  Burak ovsky  
A&E Associate EditorGUARDIAN NOMINATION
Arrival
LIKELY WINNER
 MoonlightBEST 
ADAPTED 
SCREENPLAY
A lone car travels down a dusty road, endless fields sweeping out from both sides. Roiling gray clouds loom over 
the landscape, and there’s a subdued loneliness that fills the scene. Among the other nominees, a crime drama like 
“Hell or High Water” seems like a bit of an outlier. Its story is basic: Two brothers, with all their differences between 
them, come together for a series of bank heists in order to pay off a desperate debt. What moves it past being a simple 
action-thriller is the stillness in between the sudden bouts of violence — the contemplation and serenity. Chris Pine 
and Ben Foster’s excellent portrayal of the brothers and their bond are undoubtedly the driving force behind the 
film. There is a scene in the film where the two men look out as the sun goes down. There is no dialogue, only a 
multicolored sky and the full expanse of the Texan outlands before them. The moment is ephemeral, but it’s strangely 
beautiful in a film dealing with guns and robbery. Of course, “Hell or High Water” likely won’t win Best Picture. But 
it was nominated for a reason, and it’s definitely worth a watch.
—   Derek Deng
Senior Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Steve Martin’s first full-length 
play, originally performed in 
1993, is undergoing a revival 
at The Old Globe. The show, while 
undeniably entertaining and graced 
with an incredible set and cast, never 
quite finds its footing; bits of potential 
deeper meaning are lost underneath 
carefully crafted banter and 
increasingly surreal events. “Picasso at 
the Lapin Agile” sets out to explore the 
nature of genius and how the world 
responds to young men who will 
become giants, but this exploration 
becomes muddled by its conclusion.
At the Lapin Agile, a Parisian 
bar historically frequented by the 
titular Pablo Picasso, a lively set of 
characters comes to drink, socialize 
or wait for Picasso himself to arrive. 
As customers trickle in for a night 
of drinking, even the side characters 
get a bit of spotlight: The eternally 
cheerful barkeep Freddy (Donald 
Faison), regular customer and “newly 
old” Gaston (Hal Linden) and Picasso admirer Suzanne (Liza Lapira) play 
off of each other wittily enough to 
make us forget that Picasso himself 
is absent. But while the Parisians 
recognize the standard characters of 
a Paris bar scene, 25-year-old Swiss 
patent officer Albert Einstein (Justin 
Long) is a total mystery — in a good 
way. It takes some time to reconcile 
the popular conception of an elderly, 
widely recognized Einstein with a 
young man who is earnest, yes, but 
also seems to miss social conventions 
left and right. Fortunately, the banter 
between Einstein and the other bar 
patrons, especially the forward-
thinking Germaine (Luna Vélez), 
eventually does ground him in the 
setting, even if it never quite feels like 
he belongs. Martin’s Einstein is a fun 
and interesting enough character to 
justify his presence, but through an 
enthusiastic lack of social awareness, 
Long’s portrayal feels more like a 
parody of who Einstein could have 
been rather than a genuine homage.It takes Picasso half of the play to 
finally show up and for the audience 
to finally see who the fuss is all about. 
Philippe Bowgen manages to portray 
a womanizing, charismatic version of 
the famous painter sympathetically. 
Bowgen’s Picasso unapologetically 
grandstands and brags about his 
genius to every person in the Lapin 
Agile, yet through Martin’s brand of 
clever over-the-top comedy, he comes 
across as so charming and theatrical 
that we excuse his vices — at first. 
Picasso, at least, has much less time 
than Einstein to make it clear that his 
characterization is a little flat. As the 
two men meet, the contrast between 
the self-important Picasso’s brand of 
sudden creative genius and Einstein’s 
inaccessible, contemplative genius 
is so stark that it seems natural for 
them to completely fail to understand 
each other. The two men spar verbally 
in the manner of their genius until, 
somehow, they embrace each other 
on a tabletop as brothers. I say ‘somehow’ because this moment of 
understanding represents a complete 
180-degree turn from the passion 
of their arguments through a single 
agreement. Perhaps this is, simply, 
the nature of genius: If so, then this 
play did not end on its punch line.
“Picasso” is an undeniably well-
written, funny comedy; Martin’s name 
is enough to prove that. The supporting 
characters, for the most part, have 
enough nuance to feel as though they 
are complete people we only see one 
side of. However, the one-sided near-
caricatures of Picasso and Einstein 
themselves, along with banter filled 
with references only our parents would 
understand, set “Picasso” as a play in 
no way aimed toward college students.
For a play put on by The Old Globe 
theater, which made its name on 
Shakespeare performances, “Picasso” 
is a bit on the edgy, experimental side. 
But, for experimental plays, “Picasso” 
is decidedly tame and unsatisfying. 
It sits in the awkward middle ground between a traditional theatrical 
performance and the self-aware 
extravagance of modern risk-taking 
theater; to attend this play and expect 
either is a mistake. “Picasso” neither 
pushes the boundaries far enough to 
excuse its one-sided characterizations 
of the main characters, nor takes 
itself seriously enough to follow 
through with its explorations of 
genius. Its surreal events seem 
surreal for its own sake, and they 
seem to be played for fan-service 
rather than for meaning. To a fringe-
theater newcomer, though, “Picasso” 
might be a perfect introduction to 
theater which comments on itself 
and breaks the fourth wall when 
the opportunity strikes. It is, if 
nothing else, successful comedy.
—   Sage Schubert 
Christian
 Staff Writer
“The Lego Movie” made 
a splash — it was 
whimsical, fun and 
more than a little silly. Not to mention, 
it was lucrative; so much so, Warner 
Animation and DC Entertainment 
formed a conglomerate power-block 
to give the film’s standout character, 
the caped crusader, his own flick to 
frolic and play. And, boy, does he!
Batman (Will Arnett, so juvenile it’s 
Oscar-worthy) blows past the fourth 
wall, narrating the introduction and 
cribbing a quote from Michael Jackson 
along the way. A sullen, emotionally 
underdeveloped man-child with 
a penchant for ultra-violence and 
bouts of explosive egotism, this 
particular incarnation of Gotham’s 
own superhero is a special wreck of Freudian anxiety. He beats the 
baddies and whoops ass, but the Bat 
can’t quell his own desire for family.
After a day spent thwarting 
the Joker’s plans (again), Batman 
ventures home to the Batcave. He 
settles in, microwaves some lobster 
thermidor and eats his meal in an 
empty dining room. (At this point 
during the showing, a little boy 
in the audience leaned over to his 
mother and stage-whispered, “He’s 
lonely!”) It’s true — after rejecting 
the Joker’s overtures of enemy-ship, 
Batman is starting to feel the isolation. 
So, when the Joker and all 
of Gotham’s worst villains turn 
themselves in during Barbara Gordon’s 
(Rosario Dawson) police-chief inauguration, Batman panics. Without 
criminals to punch, what’s a Batman 
to a city? Nothing! In an ill-conceived 
revenge plan, Batman mistakenly 
adopts uber-cute local orphan Dick 
Grayson (Michael Cera) and mounts 
a raid on Superman’s crib to steal the 
Phantom-Zone generator and perma-
banish the Joker from Gotham. Can’t 
he just ask to borrow it? Well, that 
would involve a little something called 
“socialization. ” Director Chris McKay 
understands, instinctively, that this 
Batman is a maladjusted child at heart. 
Nothing goes as planned. Batman 
flails, wails and plunges the city 
into a full-scale disaster as a direct 
result of unresolved childhood 
trauma. And it’s really, really amusing. McKay infuses this romp 
with winking verve, ridiculous pop-
culture references and callbacks to 
Batman’s past, and the mixture works. 
Bruce Wayne busts crazy moves, 
spins mad raps, shoots the villains 
and bonds with Grayson — his very 
own Robin! Somewhere, somehow, 
he also finds time to mature, too. 
The animation is a step up from 
“The Lego Movie. ” McKay blends 
traditional 3-D visuals with the 
distinctive blockiness of Lego, and 
the sets seem plausible as creations 
of a particularly imaginative child. 
The same rampant inventiveness is 
at work here, and Batman gets to 
flaunt his “master builder” chops by 
constructing vehicles out of buildings and stacking blocks on a whim. 
Occasionally, the backdrops are almost 
painterly, bursting color and activity. 
However, “The Lego Batman 
Movie” is at its most charming 
when it gives in fully to its zaniness. 
What’s the password to the Batcave? 
“Ironman sucks!” Who runs the 
Phantom Zone? A glowing brick that 
resembles a stoplight, of course. This 
kind of dream-logic infuses the film 
with more good humor than any well-
placed wisecracks could. Pull on your 
mask, Batman, it’s time to go nuts!
—   Alicia Lepler  
A&E Editorial AssistantCleverly written banter and surrealism obscure the deeper questions in Steve Martin’s “Picasso at the Lapin Agile. ”
Batman rides out of the dark and into the light with this family-friendly o ffering from Lego and Warner Brothers.
PLA Y    REVIEW
FILM    REVIEWPicasso a t the Lapin Agile
The  Lego  Ba tman  MoviePHOTO COURTESY OF JIM COX
PHOTO COURTESY OF WARNER BROTHERS
Director   Barry Edelstein
Writer Steve Martin
Starring   Philippe Bowgen and Justin Long
Runs   Feb. 4 - Mar. 12 at The Old Globe B-  
Director   Chris McKay
Starring Will Arnett, Zach Gali fianakis, Michael Cera
Release Date   Feb. 10
Rated   PG B  10                                       T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 1 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Taking the ROad less traveled: being liberal arts at ucsd
by Annika Olives // Sta ff  Writer
Illustration by David Juarez // UCSD GuardianComing into UC San Diego, I declared psychology without a second thought.
It had long been my favorite subject — I loved the brain, but I also loved 
analyzing humans, and this study of people seemed like the perfect option. The 
liberal arts and social sciences always interested me, and I thought I would fit in best with 
a major in one of those areas. Arts comprise most of my extracurriculars: I’ve taken ballet 
and jazz classes, sang in talent shows, did journalism and theater all four years of high 
school. As a kid, I was a self-proclaimed writer, writing stories about ballet dancers with 
magical powers and fairies that lived in the woods, and as I grew up, my stories changed 
to relate to events in my life, the successes and the struggles. I very much consider creative 
writing my way of making sense of the world and a way of finding my sense of self.
I knew going to a UC school, a primarily research-based institution, I would be 
surrounded by a lot of intelligent STEM-minded people. I was nervous at first: What if I 
couldn’t find people with my interests? What if I couldn’t make friends? What if I would 
be ostracized because I didn’t know how to code or wasn’t up to date on stem cell research?
Turns out, on the friend front, I had nothing to worry about. I quickly bonded with my 
roommates — a bio major, a computer science major, and a mechanical engineering major 
— and with the rest of my generally science-minded suite. But as I settled into my dorm 
room, my classes and my first quarter at college, I realized something else.
There is a stigma against the liberal arts and social sciences on this campus. It’s 
something that’s never explicitly said but is known by all students, both STEM and 
non-STEM alike.
Often, liberal arts and social science majors are perceived as easier because their work 
is seen as not as challenging.
“If ever [my friends and I] were to run into someone in the library [during finals], they 
would be like ‘Oh, what are you studying for?’ and they’ d be like “Oh we’re studying for this, 
she’s just writing a paper, ’ as if it wasn’t a big deal, ” senior Julia Carbajal, a communications 
major, said. “There was this underlying, ‘It’s just a paper, it’s not as stressful as what I have 
to do right now. ”
Stress is definitely a huge motivator in STEM students, but it could also be a bonding 
tactic, a way to separate the “strong” from the “weak. ”
“[Liberal arts are] viewed not only as less challenging but maybe even implying that 
oh, you’re not as capable as me to handle stress, ” sophomore and political science major 
Natalyn Pow said. “I feel like there’s this pride that goes with ‘Oh look I’m STEM, I have 
responsibilities you don’t have, I take pride in how stressed out I am. ’”  
The first time I noticed the stigma was when I felt embarrassed about struggling with 
math problems a lot of my peers considered “high-school level. ” I felt like I would be 
ridiculed if I, god forbid, asked for help with derivatives, because they were supposed to be 
easy, and I was supposed to know how to do them.
I felt looked down upon because I was a “flowery liberal arts major” in a sea full              
of STEMs.
Over the course of the quarter, I started to understand that there was a hierarchy 
among the majors — STEM at the top, liberal arts and social sciences below — and that 
this hierarchy was either consciously or unconsciously used to determine to how smart you were, how much respect you deserved.
Senior Alyssa Bradshaw changed her major from physiology and neuroscience to 
public health in her sophomore year, a major many consider a “soft” science as opposed 
to a “hard” one.
“Even for myself, changing my major was kind of a difficult process because I really 
knew that I didn’t want to be in the competitive sciences, but I felt that I had to in order to 
be respected by my peers and my family, my parents, ” Bradshaw said. “I didn’t want people 
to see me as giving up on science or taking the easy way out. ”
Opposite of Bradshaw, I recently switched my major to cognitive science, and while 
I don’t like to think that I changed it because of the stigma, I can’t help but wonder if it 
played a role. The majors study similar topics, but the difference is nuanced. If I were to 
introduce myself as a psychology major instead of a cognitive science major, would 
people perceive me differently?
I realize that this is a school of majority STEM majors that receives its funding from 
STEM research. I knew I would receive a different college experience by choosing to go to 
a huge public school over a smaller liberal arts school. But that doesn’t mean that students 
can demean whole areas of study just because it’s not their study. That doesn’t mean that 
the arts don’t warrant respect.
 “Personally, I think that for me, the first step is to accept and take pride in my focus of 
study and to not be defensive if someone were to make a snide comment about it, ” Carbajal 
said. “ And then to also recognize, like, that’s their area and this is my area, and both are 
necessary. ”
Pow suggests making conversations more accessible for all types of people. “It’s easier 
to use the technical terms of the field but a lot of the times people who are not in that field 
won’t understand you, ” Pow said. “So, I think, conversations where we put into our own 
words and we highlight what interests us from that field would help to get to know each 
other better and help shed more light on the social sciences. ”
Perhaps one of the most important and hardest points to argue is that art can bring 
something to the table that STEM cannot. While it may not speak to everyone, I believe 
that the arts have a certain power.
“I think people need to realize what art actually means to some people. Art isn’t just 
making paintings anymore, it’s creating ways of moving people, and I think they don’t 
see the value that artists have, because artists are more than just making things, ” Bradshaw 
explained. “They are always creating and innovating in their mind, just ways to see the 
world and ways to perceive situations in the world and commenting on that and raising 
attention in a way that can’t be done with just science or math. ”
Discrediting whole areas of study shows an unawareness of the work that people put 
in. Openness and genuine curiosity lead to an understanding of what people study and 
why they study what they study, and this is a crucial first step to decrease the prevalence 
of this stigma.
If you’re a liberal arts or social sciences major, I invite you to challenge the stigma. Start 
arts clubs. Be proud of what you’re studying. Stand among the STEM majors and show 
them that you can bloom into the most beautiful flower you can be.LIFESTYLE        THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
“It’s ‘Barthelona. ’ Not ‘Barcelona. ’” This is the battle cry 
of every student upon returning from study abroad in 
Europe, an experience they will relentlessly bring up for 
months to come in unrelated conversation. How do I know this? Well, 
*sighs pensively and looks out the window while holding a glass of 
red wine* I was once that student. About this time a year ago, I was 
still saying “bless you” and “excuse me” instinctively in their Spanish 
counterparts of “salud” and “con permiso. ” As any student who has 
been abroad will tell you, this is  one of the best decisions you can 
make as an undergrad. Y ou learn so much about the world and 
yourself. Cheesy, I know, but it’s true.  
While I spent four months living in the southern city of Sevilla 
(yes, the same Sevilla featured in “Game of Thrones” as the paradise 
of Dorne), it was the two weeks that I spent backpacking with my best 
friend that had the greatest impact on me. I discovered that I was much 
more capable of living off a bare minimum of supplies while learning 
the approximate distance of a kilometer. Y ou don’t need a plethora of 
things when you travel to have a great experience. While I know that 
this is a sustainability column, I believe minimalist traveling to be in 
the same vein as ecologically responsible consumerism. 
Now that we’ve gotten through the long exposition, let’s get to 
the main story. During my two-week backpacking adventure, I had 
three changes of clothes, one pair of shoes, a water bottle, toiletries, 
my phone and charger, a book, my wallet and passport. When we 
cast off, I was terrified that I wouldn’t have something I needed for 
an unanticipated occasion. Turned out I did forget my swimsuit, but 
aside from that, I had more than enough. We primarily ate street food, 
took buses and trains to travel further distances and washed our three 
changes of clothes a grand total of two times. I’ d say our waste levels 
were next to nothing. We would steal food from our hostels’ breakfast 
layout and eat that for lunch to save money. Only occasionally did we 
lavishly dine out. After that experience, I will never travel with more 
than the bare necessities.
The mysterious sorcery that is financial aid is what got me to 
Europe, but saving money while still seeing as much as I possibly 
could was up to me. If you are fortunate enough to travel the world, 
you can save money, and the planet, by traveling on buses, staying 
in insanely non-private hostels and eating street food. While buses 
take much more time than airplanes which pollute a sh*t ton, the 
countrysides you’ll see on the ride are well worth it. More energy and 
space is required when you stay in a private room, so living in hostels 
is a great way to both meet people and reduce your energy usage. 
Lastly, street food has the benefit of not being prepackaged, like fast 
food, or expensive, like everything else, while still being  delicious. I 
can promise you, living poor while traveling in Europe actually makes 
the experience unlike any other situation that involves being short on 
cash, like being a student for example. How to Live Your Life, by an ESYS Major: Trekking Sustainably
by Nadia Link // Contributing Writer
Illustration by Michi Sora // UCSD Guardian12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
Ask anyone where to find 
Saturday night kickbacks on 
campus, and I’ll guarantee 
the answer is I-House. But what 
about a global forum discussing 
tattoo removals of sex workers in 
Tijuana on a Wednesday afternoon? 
A place to learn Russian every 
Thursday evening? And if you’re 
craving Estonian cuisine on a Friday 
— Burger King in PC won’t satisfy 
that hunger. 
A little controversy, a lot of 
culture.
I-House, short for International 
House, is home for UC San 
Diego’s global community. A hub 
for domestic and international 
students alike, I-House is a concrete 
corridor stretching from Asante to 
Kathmandu, and crowned by the 
Great Hall. Aiming to “cultivate cross 
cultural understanding, ” I-House is 
more than on-campus housing for 
our visiting scholars or friends from 
abroad. 
Every year, nearly 300 students 
from 30 nations abide in these 
apartments. This half-and-half 
community of local and global 
provides a unique opportunity for 
integrated interaction and learning 
experiences that go beyond the 
classroom. 
I-House also hosts weekly, 
monthly and quarterly events that 
showcase both the beauty of what is 
overseas and the challenges of “going 
global. ” Open to all UCSD students, 
here are a few programs not to miss:
Global Forums at Great Hall, 
Wednesdays 3 p.m.
From food insecurity to refugee 
crises, executive orders and sexuality 
in South Korea, this is a public forum 
for UCSD students to interact with professional panelists, discuss local 
interventions to global concerns and 
engage with international issues. 
With a diverse range of topics, get 
involved to learn outside the lecture.
Language Conversation 
Tables at Great Hall and Asante 
Classrooms, Thursdays 5 p.m.
Each week, international and 
local students with a heart for 
linguistics host different tables to 
teach everything from Arabic to 
Chinese, English to Swahili, German 
to Russian. This is the perfect place to come pick up a new language or share 
what you speak.
Friday Cafe at Great Hall, 
Fridays 12 p.m.
For $5, get a plate (or two) of 
traditional cuisine from the country 
of the week. Sure, it might just 
be HDH catering, but the effort 
behind authenticity is nothing 
short of genuine. Each Friday Cafe 
is accompanied with a presentation 
given by a student from the featured 
country to share insight about their 
home country, traditions and culture. Serving good food and good lessons, 
come have lunch with our local and 
global neighbors.
Sunday Supper at Great Hall, 
Sunday 5 p.m. (quarterly) 
The cost of $25, dining dollars 
accepted — I repeat, dining dollars 
accepted — pays for a night of fine 
dining, entertainment, dancing and 
music. Each supper follows a theme, 
with this past one being “Fantastic 
People and Where to Find Them, ” 
featuring a magician and discourse on 
dreams. A treat for the community, put on by our friends at I-House. 
These are only a few of the 
offerings I-House provides to make 
sure all have a sense of voice in the 
UCSD and global community. From 
house to home, this international 
community helps students seamlessly 
transition into U.S. university life, 
maintains cultural preservation, 
cultivates space to discuss challenging 
subjects and intertwines a cultural 
body of students.
So come for the party, stay for the 
community. An Introduction to I-House  
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
Photo courtesy of I-House UCSDCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
IGNITE CONFERENCE
PRICE CENTER • FREETahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 20 - FEB 262017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 2.20 WED2.22WEDNESDAY 2.22  • 8am
THU2.23
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE2.21
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - GREAT 
HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of the 
world in which we live. The Global Forum is a 
program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through 
speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
NOMINATIONS FOR WARREN 
COLLEGE'S BEARL AWARDS FOR 
PRINCIPLES OF COMMUNITY - 
NOMINATION SUBMISSION ONLINE
Warren College will honor individuals and groups 
who exemplify the UC San Diego Principles of 
Community on April 22 at an Academe Awards 
celebration. The "BEARLS" honors five members of 
the Warren College community for excellence in 
upholding these principles. Nomination 
submissions are open until March 1 at 11:59pm 
at http://warren.ucsd.edu/programs/bearls.html. 
Contact: waprovost@ucsd.edu
8am
IGNITE CONFERENCE - PRICE 
CENTER 
Ignite brings together university innovators, 
startups and regional partners to spark 
interdisciplinary conversation and “ignite" new 
ideas. The FREE, daylong conference will offer 
keynote remarks from Scot Chisholm, CEO and 
co-founder of Classy, a leading fundraising 
platform for social-good organizations, and Jon 
Belmonte, CEO of Spoutable. The conference will 
also feature an innovation economy forum with 
senior leaders from around the region. Other 
highlights include 24-plus breakout sessions, 
three business idea ”pitch” competitions, a 
startup fair featuring more than 30 company 
demonstrations, mentoring opportunities and a 
“startup crawl” touring some of downtown San 
Diego"s hottest companies. Contact: 
ignite@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 PRESENTS: RED FISH BLUE 
FISH - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER 
UC San Diego's own percussion ensemble red fish 
blue fish will perform as part of the Department of 
Music's ongoing Wednesdays@7 concert series. 
The performance will be conducted by Founder 
and Distinguished Professor of Music Steven 
Schick. The ensemble's program will include the 
following: Percussion Suite (1933) by Johanna 
Beyer, a new work by Justin Murphy-Mancini, 
Persephassa (1969) by Iannis Xenakis. Tickets: 
GA: $15.50, faculty/staff/alumni: $10.50, 
students: Free. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu
8pm
MIGUEL ZENON QUARTET AT 
ARTPOWER - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST 
UCSD Student: $9 Multiple Grammy nominee and 
Guggenheim and MacArthur fellow Miguel Zenón 
represents a select group of musicians who have 
masterfully balanced the often contradictory poles 
of innovation and tradition. He is one of the most 
groundbreaking and influential saxophonists of 
his generation. He has also developed a unique 
voice as a composer and conceptualist, 
concentrating his efforts on perfecting a fine mix 
between Latin American folkloric music and jazz. 
From Puerto Rico, Zenón has released nine 
recordings, and will be touring his tenth and 
forthcoming album, Tipico, while at ArtPower. 
Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu7:30pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Camera Lucida's program will include: Fantasy 
Pieces for Cello and Piano, Opus 73 (1849) by 
Robert Schumann. String Quartet in D major, K. 
575, “King of Prussia” (1789-90) by Wolfgang 
Amadeus Mozart. Piano Quintet in a minor, Opus 
84 (1918) by Edward Elgar. No late seating. 
Tickets: Reserved: $37, faculty/staff/alumni: 
$28, students: Free Tickets are on sale 
exclusively through the UC San Diego Box 
Office:https://ucsdboxoffice.com/Online/ 
Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
YOUABROAD STUDY ABROAD 
SERIES PRESENTS: QUEERABROAD 
- LGBT CENTER
An interactive conversation about Lesbian, Gay, 
Bisexual and Transgender experiences abroad.  
Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
SAT2.25
10am
2017 BLACK HISTORY MONTH 
SCHOLARSHIP BRUNCH - PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM A/B
Join us for UC San Diego’s 15th annual Black 
History Scholarship Brunch, which will feature a 
keynote address by educator, national 
change-maker and author Dr. Steve Perry. All are 
invited to this soulful experience, which will 
include a performance by national recording jazz 
harpist Mariea Antoinette, a Southern-style soul 
food brunch, a silent auction and recognition of 
student scholars. All proceeds from the silent 
auction support undergraduate scholarships. 
Contact: blackhistorymonth@ucsd.edu11am
EXPLORING RESILIENCY AND 
POSSIBILITY WITHIN - 
ROOSEVELT ROOM, PC WEST
Have you ever explored resiliency? What keeps 
you resilient in the face of stress, competing 
priorities and distraction? Participants will 
reflect on their own understanding of resiliency, 
engage in dialogue, and explore ways to practice 
resiliency, self-care and possibility. Presented by 
Katelin Rae, Greek Life Advisor, Center for 
Student Involvement. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
CELEBRATING BLACK 
HISTORY MONTH: 
AFRO-CARIBBEAN DANCE 
AND DRUMMING - SOCIAL 
SCIENCE BUILDING #101
Celebrating Black History Month 2017 
Afro-Caribbean Dance and Drumming with Gene 
Perry Organized by the African & 
African-American Studies Research Center, this 
program presents an overview of African and 
Afro- Caribbean percussive and dance forms 
with demonstrations by professional performers 
and audience participation. Admission is free 
and open to the campus community and the 
general public. Light refreshments will be 
served. Contact: bjulesro@ucsd.edu
5pm
HERO SEMINARS - MUIR 
BIOLOGY BUILDING SEMINAR 
ROOM 1103
The Human and Earth Rights Organization is a 
non-profit student organization at UCSD that is 
dedicated to educating the public about social 
and environmental issues. HERO provides 
opportunities for student involvement in the 
community and supports human rights and 
environmental sustainability. HERO believes 
that there can be a social change drastic 
enough to end human suffering and stop the 
destruction of our planet. Contact: 
msaier@ucsd.eduSUN2.26
9am
UCSD ROTARACT INVITES YOU TO 
THE 3RD ANNUAL WAPI PROJECT! 
- GREAT HALL IN INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE, ERC
The WAPI Project an annual event held by Rotaract 
where we gather the UCSD community together to 
make 1,000 WAPIs (Water Pasteurization 
Indicators) in just one day to be delivered to 
communities in Nairobi, Kenya! Last year we were 
able to exceed that number and this year we hope 
to do so again with your help! The event is FREE! 
Sign up at: www.wapiproject.eventbrite.com. We're 
trying to get as big of a turnout as possible this 
year, so feel free to invite any of your family, 
friends, and fellow org members to show them 
how awesome international service is! Both 
breakfast and lunch will be provided.FRI2.24
8pm
THALMA & LAERCIO DE FREITAS 
AT ARTPOWER - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
UCSD Student: $9. For her return to ArtPower  
following her sold-out U.S. debut here , Thalma de 
Freitas joins forces with her father, Laércio to 
showcase beautiful Brazilian jazz music that 
demonstrates the power of cross-generational 
influences. Father/daughter duo Laércio and 
Thalma have a long and rich history of writing 
and performing music together. Thalma credits 
her father for developing her musical ear and 
exposing her to the deep roots of jazz music in 
Brazilian culture. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Bungle badly
6. Famous fabler
11. ‘’It’s freezing!’’
14. Rudimentary seed
15. Sri ---
16. Tolstoy’s first
17. Fruity loaf
19. Actress Gardner
20. Criticize crudely
21. Chicago political name
22. Desert Storm missile
23. Vein pursuit
25. Second-chance exams
27. Ribbed cover
32. Drab’s partner
33. Cigarette stat
34. Turns sharply
36. Keep --- to the ground
39. Worship
41. Command to a horse
42. Pisa’s place
43. Axman
44. ‘’Don’t --- the small stuff!’’
46. Born as
47. Untouchable lawman
49. Backs a candidate
51. Paper pads
54. Resentment
55. Pub brews
56. Uplift
59. No-see-um
63. Mass. school
64. Meaty wrap
66. Garfield, to Jon
67. Musical drama
68. Not on deck
69. Random choice
70. Financier John Jacob
71. Wishlist entriesDown
1. Short cuts
2. Somewhat round
3. Deli order
4. Racket
5. Old biddy
6. ‘’Duchess of ---’’ (Goya painting)
7. Viscount’s superior in rank
8. Scornful smile
9. Authorized
10. Toad’s stool
11. Feijoada ingredients
12. Vaudeville production
13. Many have shoulders
18. Fred Astaire’s sister
22. Peter or Paul’s title
24. Motorist’s option
26. Turncoat
27. Mormon State
28. Created
29. Baked apple dessert
30. Calf locales
31. ‘’--- having fun yet?’’
35. ‘’I’ve --- the light!’’
37. Away from the wind
38. Bread choices
40. Virginia square dances
45. Cheerio
48. Prepares in a teapot
50. Feel sorry about
51. Florida bay
52. Strange
53. Highway headache
57. Spheroid hairdo
58. Vail device
60. Khartoum river
61. Tiny particle
62. Clears from the no-parking zone
64. Feathery wrap
65. Box score statTEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FREE Electric cement mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In work -
ing condition but note wheels are broken.
Pick up from DeakinLast Edited Condition 
Used... Pictures and contact information on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 310101715 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
TICKETS
Ghastly - OMNIA FRIDAYS - Bottle Service 
:: 619.602.XXXX. Listing ID: 310101777 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Okkervil River & Landlady - Belly Up Solana 
Beach, Sat. Oct. 1 - $30 - Okkervil River 
(opener: Landlady - a good band), Sat, 
October 1, 8:00 pm, 2 general admission 
tickets, Belly Up in Solana Beach. Should be 
a great show but I can’t go. Selling for under 
face value (bellyup.com: $20 advance). Email to arrange pick up. I’ll be in North 
Park Thurs night, or on campus Friday. 
Cash only please. Listing ID: 309778538 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
World Crawl San Diego - Club Crawl 2016 
- What You Get 4-6 Venues in 1 Night We 
start early! Just be prepared, it’s a long 
night! We typically go to two bars and three 
nightclubs. Sometimes more, sometimes 
less. The night has an exciting progres -
sion throughout the evening. Pace yourself 
people! Some of the final venues we hit are 
the most popular and exciting nightclubs 
in the world! Get involved at the start of 
the night, because that’s where a lot of the 
magic happens. The people you meet at 
the start of the night are your pals (or more) 
through the evening. Party on people. 2-5 
Drink Tickets & Specials At up to $14 / drink, 
picking up some drinks in San Diego can be 
expensive! That’s why we get you half way 
there. We will hook you up some a drink 
ticket at some venues. Some are good for 
highballs and beers, and some are good 
for a shot off. Either way, you’re going to 
be saving over $40 in drinks alone. Not 
to mention that we’re going to play a few 
rounds of flip cup, beer pong, and some 
other games that we’ll supply the drinks for. 
Listing ID: 310101778 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. You can find the link in the description.
Take our Entertainment Survey to be entered for 
the chance to win a $10 Starbucks gift card.studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16
PRESIDENT’S DAYFEB 20SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
After a disappointing Triton 
Invitational that saw the Tritons drop 
from No. 9 to No. 17, UC San Diego 
rebounded with a convincing 9–6 
win over No. 25 California Baptist 
University. With the win on Saturday 
afternoon, the Tritons are now one 
game away from an even record.
On the road, the Tritons used a 
dominant first period to keep the 
Lancers at a safe distance and cruise 
to the win. 
With four goals in the first period, 
UCSD pulled away quickly. Sophomore 
center Chanel Schilling opened the 
score, notching the ball in the back of 
the net after only two minutes of play. 
Sophomore attacker Krista Schneider 
followed her, scoring on a power play. 
With another goal from Schilling and 
one by senior center Lauren Boyer, the 
Tritons ended the first period up 4–1 
on the Lancers.
UCSD took a step back in the 
second quarter, and CBU answered a 
goal by senior defender Alexis Wieseler with two of its own to close the gap 
to two.
UCSD did not let CBU get any 
closer though, and Wieseler took over, 
bagging back-to-back goals in the third 
period. CBU also scored two in the 
period, but Schilling got her third of 
the game on a power play to get the 
Tritons up 8–5.
Senior two-meter defender Lani 
Tittle scored for the Tritons in the 
fourth, and with CBU scoring one 
itself, the final score stood at 9–6.
Wieseler and Schilling had three 
goals each, junior utility Kayla Fedler 
had three assists and Schneider 
compiled a team-high four steals. 
Freshman goalie Reilly Gallagher 
further established herself as a future 
force to be reckoned with in goal for 
the Tritons, with nine saves in four 
quarters.
Next for the Tritons is the three-day 
Barbara Kalbus Invitational from Feb. 
24 to Feb. 26. Their first game will be on 
Friday against No. 3 UCLA at 12:30 
p.m.final regular season game at RIMAC 
Arena with a career-high 17 points. 
Similar to Everman, Cox found 
himself open from the three-point 
line repeatedly during the game and 
was able to knock down five-of-eight 
from deep. Senior guard Adam Klie 
also racked up double-digit scoring 
with 13 points, while Oshita earned 
a career-high 11 boards.  
UCSD shot 46 percent (33–72) 
and took over the game from the 
start, getting up on its opponents 
often and early, never trailing in the 
game. The team’s biggest lead was 29 
points, though it could have been a 
lot more.  
The Tritons will now take their 
six-game win streak on the road for 
the final regular season game versus 
Cal State Bernardino on Thursday, 
Feb. 23. The CCAA regular season 
title, which the program has never 
won before, will be at stake for the 
Tritons at this next matchup. After 
Thursday’s game, UCSD will shift its 
focus to the postseason as it hosts a 
CCAA Tournament quarterfinal on 
Tuesday, Feb. 28 at 7:30 p.m.  ▶ M. BASKETBALL , from page 16
Tritons Remain Afloat With Bounce-Back VictoryTritons Spiral Out Of Control, Again
UCSD improves to 4–5 overall after dispatching of No. 25 CBU.UC San Diego swept twice on the road despite close 
sets against No. 3 BYU to increase losing streak to four.
W. W A TER POLOM. VOLLEYBALL
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu  BY  M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e r
editor in chief
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduThe UC San Diego men’s vol -
leyball teams traveled to Provo, Utah 
this past weekend to play against 
No. 3 Brigham Y oung University. 
The Tritons lost two close games in 
three sets, bringing their record to 
2–7 in the Mountain Pacific Sports 
Federation and 5–9 overall. BYU 
improved its record to 6–1 in the 
MPSF and 12–2 overall. 
Game 1
UCSD started off with a 3–0 run, 
but BYU later responded with three 
kills in a row to tie the set 12–12. The 
match remained close for the rest 
of the set, but UCSD was unable to 
edge ahead of BYU, despite strong 
offensive efforts. The final score was 
25–21. A nail-biting second set made 
it seem like the Tritons could pull 
for the win, but two kills in a row 
by BYU’s senior outside hitter Jake 
Langlois sealed BYU’s win, 26–24. 
Again, the third set was a close 
one. Even though the Tritons never 
took the lead, they came within one 
point a few times. Alas, a Jake Langlois 
kill sealed the deal for the Cougars, as 
they won 25–23. Langlois had the 
most kills of the night, with 17. Junior 
opposite and setter Tanner Syftestad 
had the most for the Tritons, with 13. 
“If you look at the statistics from 
the match tonight, we did a lot of 
good things, ” UCSD head coach 
Kevin Ring told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We hit .324 to .348 by 
BYU, had 7.5 stuff blocks to 6.0 and 
24 digs to their 20. In the end, the big 
difference was they had 10 more kills 
than us and eight more points on the 
night. We did a lot of good things, 
but for us to win a set, get a second 
and try to win the match, we have to play some of the key points a little bit 
stronger. ”
Game 2
The first match saw 12 tied scores 
and three lead changes, the last lead 
change coming at the end of the 
match. The Tritons were up 25–24 
and needed one more point for the 
win. However, sloppy Triton defense 
allowed the Cougars to take the win, 
27–25. 
The second match was not as com -
petitive as the first, but the Tritons 
did have two more kills in this set 
than the previous one. Unfortunately, 
though, a kill by — you guessed it 
— BYU’s Langlois gave the Cougars 
their winning point to put the final 
score at 25–21. 
In the third set, the Tritons were 
off to a solid start, but a kill from the 
Cougars put them up 7–6, and they 
never looked back. BYU won 25–22.
“When you’re playing a team like 
BYU, at home and as good as they are, 
you have to find what you are going 
to do that’s better than them, ” Ring 
said. “From the service line tonight, 
we missed 18 serves, so we defi -
nitely needed to cut down on some 
errors. I felt like on the night, we 
competed really hard and never quit, 
so I definitely appreciate the battle 
in the guys. But we still have some 
work to do to try and find a level of 
play that we can stay consistent at 
and can push us across the finish line 
late in these sets to turn the tide in 
our favor. ”
Next up, the Tritons will host UC 
Santa Barbara and UCLA on Feb. 24 
and Feb. 25, respectively. Both games 
will start at 7 p.m.
BY  R o s i n a  g a r c i a
editor in chief
ROSINA GARCIA  rmg008@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
A.S. Safe Rides
Free Uber ride up to $10 for all UCSD students
You don’t have to be a first time 
Uber user to get the free credit.
Link your UCSD email to your Uber 
account, and enter in this quarter’s 
promo code!
ASUCSD x Uber
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeEnjoy your free ride (up to $10) between 8pm- 3am,
Wednesday through Sunday. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego women’s basketball team defeated Cal 
Poly Pomona (80–67) and Humboldt State (64–55) last 
week. The win over Humboldt State secured a second-
straight regular season title for the Tritons. UCSD improved to 
16–3 with its victories over Cal Poly Pomona and Humboldt 
State and is guaranteed a home quarterfinal in the upcoming 
California Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. 
Cal Poly Pomona
UCSD put on an offensive clinic against Cal Poly Pomona and 
never trailed throughout the game. The Tritons built a lead early 
on in the first and held onto the lead for the remainder of the 
game. While the Broncos shot a respectable 45.6 percent (26–57) 
from the field, it was not enough to top the blistering-hot Triton 
offense, which shot 56.3 percent (27–48). 
The Tritons were led in scoring by senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod, who went 11–16 from the field for a career-high 30 
points. Three other Tritons scored in double digits: senior guard 
Beth Mounier (15), sophomore guard Joleen Y ang (11) and 
junior guard Paige Song (11). Mounier was also active on defense 
and distributing the ball, tallying five steals and six assists. 
The Tritons held a 20-point lead at 5:41 in the fourth quarter, 
but a strong push by the Broncos brought the game to 70–64 
with 50 seconds left to go. With the game on the line, UCSD pushed the lead to 77–64 with 16 seconds left to go. At this point, 
no amount of intentional fouling and three-pointers could bring 
the Broncos back into the game. 
MacLeod credited her scoring performance to the shooting 
practice she put in throughout the season and her improved 
leadership abilities on the court. 
“I just played hard, tried to score and be aggressive. That’s what 
we worked on all week, because in the past few games we’ve been 
pretty passive, ” MacLeod told the Athletics Department, “ And so, as 
a team, we decided to be more aggressive. I just happened to be the 
one that got the most buckets. ” 
Humboldt State
The Tritons were led in scoring by junior forward Dalayna 
Sampton, who posted a game-high 19 points and nine rebounds. 
Mounier and Y ang were also in double-digits, scoring 13 and 11 
points, respectively. 
Neither team shot the ball particularly well; Humboldt State was 
16–48 (33.3 percent) from the field, while UCSD went 18–46 (39.1 
percent). However, the Tritons were far more accurate from behind-
the-arc than the Lumberjacks. UCSD went 7–14 (50 percent) from 
three compared to Humboldt State’s 5–19 (26.3 percent). 
The first quarter was a back-and-forth affair and ended with 
a layup by Lumberjack freshman guard Tyra Turner to tie the game at 15–15. The Tritons pulled ahead in the second quarter by 
outscoring the Lumberjacks 16–9. The score was 31–24 heading 
into the second half. 
UCSD built on its lead in the third quarter that the Lumberjacks 
were never be able to come back from. At its greatest, the lead was 
at 14 points, courtesy of a layup by Sampton with 5:24 remaining. 
Humboldt State brought the game to 40–35 with a three by junior 
forward Allison Zalin at the 3:03 mark. This five-point deficit 
was the closest that the Lumberjacks ever got to overcoming the 
Tritons, as UCSD held onto its lead in the fourth to close out the 
game 64–55. 
“I’m excited [for the game against San Bernardino.] … This is 
game time, ” Sampton told the Athletics Department. “They’re going 
to come at us with everything they have, and we’re going to come 
right back. Our coach talked to us about not being a punching bag, 
but, you know, throwing some, and that’s my kind of game. I’m 
excited. ”
UCSD will face off against Cal State San Bernardino at the 
Coussoulis Arena on Thursday, Feb. 23. Tip-off is scheduled for 
5:30 p.m.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
CCAA 
Champions
Once Again
UC San Diego trounces the 
competition in final regular 
season homestand.
by Richard Lu// Contributing Writer
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIAN
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team had a fairly 
comfortable weekend on the 
court as the players were able to put 
both of their opponents out of the 
contest early. On Friday, the Tritons 
faced off against Cal Poly Pomona, 
winning by a 22-point margin, 
72–50. Meanwhile on Saturday, 
they finished off their two-game 
home stand with a 21-point win 
over Humboldt State, 88–67. The 
back-to-back 20-plus-point wins 
extend UCSD’s win streak to six 
wins, helping the team maintain its 
top spot in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings. The 
Tritons improved their record to 
16–3 in the conference — the most 
conference wins for the team since 
joining the CCAA in the 00–01 
season.  
Cal Poly Pomona 
The Tritons were not tested by 
Cal Poly Pomona that night, thus 
continuing their winning ways 
on their way to a fifth-straight 
victory. Sophomore guard Christian 
Oshita led the way with a 17-point 
performance off of five-for-seven 
shooting to go along with nine 
rebounds.  
Defensively, UCSD held Cal Poly 
to a below-par 36 percent (19–53) 
shooting from the field, while 
shooting 49 percent (21–43) on the 
Tritons’ part.  
Besides trailing in the first minutes of the game, the Tritons 
never relinquished the lead as they 
dominated their opponents on both 
ends of the court. 
Senior guard Aleks Lipovic 
ended the game with 16 points and 
four assists with 12 points coming 
from behind the arc. Another Triton 
ended the game in double-figures: 
Sophomore center Chris Hansen 
scored 12 points and grabbed seven 
rebounds. 
The momentum is starting to shift 
for the Tritons, as they are being able 
to string strong performances late in 
the season which will be extremely 
important for their mentality going 
into the postseason.  
Humboldt State
Freshman forward Scott 
Everman, was undoubtedly the star 
of the night versus Humboldt State. 
He dropped 28 points and putt on 
a clinical display from three-point 
land as he hit eight three-pointers. 
Although, he was not the only one 
on the team hitting threes as the 
Tritons racked up a total of 18 threes 
on their way to a sixth-consecutive 
victory.  
Everman found himself open 
from behind the arc on many 
occasions and was able to get going 
from long range in the first half, 
hitting seven-of-eight threes in the 
first 20 minutes of play. Overall, 
the freshman forward ended 10–21 
from the field. 
Senior guard Koree Cox had 
himself a solid game as well in his 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
Unstoppable: Men’s Basketball Finishes Regular 
Season In Style With Weekend Home Victories
UCSD is now 16–3 in CCAA play and will host the CCAA tournament quarterfinals.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSBY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
senior STAFF writer
SeeM. BASKETBALL , page 15UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Tennis
Baseball2 PM
5:30 PM
6 PM
3 PM
6 PM2/21
2/23
2/23
2/24
2/24VS Eastern Washington
AT Cal State San Bernardino
AT Cal State San Bernardino
VS Holy Names
VS Cal State San Marcos
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.edu