VOLUME 50, ISSUE 24  MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREREALITY 
TV
REALITY TELEVISION 
MAY NOT BE THE END OF 
CULTURE, BUT WHETHER 
OR NOT IT HERALDS   
ANYTHING OF VALUE IS 
EQUALLY QUESTIONABLE. 
THE BACHELOR,” STARRING 
FAKE TANS GALORE, IS THE 
GENRE’S NORTH STAR. 
TRUMP  AND  THE  EP A
HOW  GRANT  CUTS    AFFECT  UCSD
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
SHOULD  FEDERAL  RESEARCH  
DOLLAR S CONTINUE  
TO EVAPORATE , CORE 
ESTABLI SHMENT S OF THE 
MERITOCRACY  AND ACCE SSIBILITY  . 
. . WILL CONTINUE  TO BE ERODED , 
LEAVING  BEHIND  THE WOULD -BE 
NOBEL LAUREATE S AND CAPTAIN S 
OF INDUSTRY WHO WOULD  MOVE  
OUR COUNTRY  FORWARD .”
- Kenneth Schrupp
Divesting from Science
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN  ...2
PROTEST AND VICTORY .....3
LIFESTYLE  ...................... 8
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
SWIM & DIVE  ................ 16A&E,  P AGE 9
PHOTO COURTESTY OF JOHANSEN KRAUSE
Researchers from UC San Diego 
and Northwestern University will 
collaborate with the Southwest 
Oncology Group in a study of 
immunotherapy for rare cancer 
patients. The study, funded by the 
National Cancer Institute, began 
enrolling participants from all over 
the country on Jan. 24. 
Officially called the “Dual Anti-
CTLA-4 and Anti-PD-1 Blockade 
in Rare Tumors” or DART, the 
trial will investigate the efficacy of 
treating rare cancers of the nerves, 
skin, glands and bones with the 
monoclonal antibodies nivolumab 
and ipilimumab. The idea of 
immunotherapy is to introduce 
these antibodies into the immune 
systems of cancer patients and promote their bodies’ own abilities 
to stop the growth of tumor cells. 
A combination of the two drugs, 
Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-PD-1, will 
be given in six-week cycles, with 
changes in tumor size being tracked 
through computerized tomography 
scans, an imaging technique that 
utilizes X-ray technology to visualize 
the inside of the body. In addition to 
treatment, a basic science team will 
study the tumor tissue samples to 
understand responses to the drug 
as well as potential biomarkers of 
treatment response.
For The Rare Cancer Foundation, 
this federally-funded clinical trial 
represents a hopeful shift toward 
more awareness and research into 
rare cancer treatment. 
“It’s refreshing to see rare cancer 
patients have the option to join a 
significant trial, ” the foundation said in an email to the UCSD Guardian. 
“Rare cancers are often ignored as 
being a ‘niche’ problem, yet they 
are responsible for 25 percent of 
new cancer diagnoses and over 40 
percent of cancer deaths in the U.S. 
Having significant clinical trials 
made available to the rare cancer 
patient community is a big step in 
the right direction. ”
Dr. Sandip Patel, one of DART’s 
primary investigators and an assistant 
director of the Clinical Trials Office at 
UCSD’s Moores Cancer Center, finds 
both the basic research and clinical 
care aspects of the trial to be very 
exciting and novel.
“The ability to help those 
patients that I see in clinic that have 
historically not had clinical trial 
options … is the most rewarding Students 
Demand UC 
Divestment 
from Fossil 
FuelsCAMPUS
The students also protested 
President Trump’s denial of 
climate change.
A few of students gathered on 
Library Walk Monday afternoon 
to protest President Donald 
Trump’s denial of climate change 
and to demand that the UC Board 
of Regents divest from fossil 
fuels in response. Organized 
by the Student Sustainability                                               
Collective, the students held 
cardboard signs with messages such 
as “There is NO PLANET B” and 
“INVEST IN OUR FUTURE. ”
The protest lasted approximately 
one hour, and the students mostly 
remained in front of Student 
Health Services for the duration, 
talking with passersby and chanting 
“DIVEST, DIVEST - leave fossil 
fuels to rest. ” 
The statement included on 
SSC’s Facebook event page, 
“Reject Trump’s Climate Change 
Denial: Divest from Fossil Fuels, ” 
stated clearly that the students 
see President Trump’s refusal to 
acknowledge the existence of global 
warming, a scientifically-proven 
event, as a threat. 
“[Trump] has stacked his 
cabinet with climate deniers, white 
supremacists, and Wall Street 
bankers, ” the statement reads. “We 
will not stand by this unjust and 
unsustainable decision. 
There is no room for neutrality 
when the president of the United 
States is actively threatening 
the very future of this planet by 
protecting and profiting from the 
fossil fuel industry. ”
According to John Muir College 
senior Mukta Kelkar, the protest 
was part of a larger movement that 
extends across the UC campuses.
“The movement is the Fossil 
Fuel UC Campaign, and we’re 
asking the University of California 
to divest from fossil fuel companies 
and reinvest in renewable energy, ” 
Kelkar told the UCSD Guardian. 
“This is actually part of a statewide 
movement; all of the undergraduate 
campuses are having some kind of 
action today as part of an initiative 
across the nation as well. These 
actions are all tied to Trump’s 
inauguration and how much that 
administration has pushed for 
climate denial. ”
The Sacramento Bee reported 
that UC Davis held its own rally, 
about 50 people strong, but there 
were no other articles describing 
any similar events at the rest of the 
UC campuses.
Bryant Jew, a sophomore 
from Earl Warren College, told 
the Guardian that while there 
are only about eight students in 
the campaign, they are hosting 
upcoming events to encourage more 
students to participate.Regents Approve Tuition Hike, Students Protest
Approximately 20 students gathered to protest 
the University of California Board of Regents 
vote to raise tuition, which occurred earlier 
today. UCSD Students Against Tuition Hikes also 
organized the protest to demand free UC tuition, to 
make UC campuses sanctuary campuses, to encourage 
prison and energy transfer partner divestment, to 
advocate that the UC endorse Proposition 13 reform 
and that, overall, the UC become more democratized.
In-state tuition is expected to rise by 2.5 percent, 
or $282 per student, with an additional $54 increase in 
student services fees, totaling $11,502 for the 2017-18 
academic year. Out-of-state students will experience a 
total increase of $1,668 resulting from the overall 2.5 
percent increase, in addition to five percent more in 
supplemental tuition — an overall cost of $28,014 for 
the next school year. This is the first tuition increase 
the UC system has seen in six years. 
Protesters marched down Library Walk and 
through Price Center chanting, “Hey hey ho ho, 
tuition hikes have got to go, ” among other phrases 
including, “Tuition is going up on a Thursday and the 
chancellor’s getting a pay raise, ” and stopping briefly 
to discuss why the tuition hikes are making it difficult 
for students to continue studying at the university. 
Students, including some who finance their own 
education, explained the struggle of working multiple 
jobs to meet the tuition and the high cost of living in La Jolla. These students are concerned that increasing 
tuition would make it even more difficult to balance 
academic, social and work life.
Ricardo Vazquez, the director of media relations 
at the University of California Office of the President 
told the UCSD Guardian that two out of three UC 
students will still be covered by financial aid and will 
not have to pay the tuition increase.
“One-third of the increase in revenue will be added 
to the financial aid fund, ” he added. “The rest of the 
revenue will go to campus priorities and to things 
that will directly benefit students. [Things that] the 
students themselves have told us [ they want], and 
others [that are] are a very high priority for them in 
terms of the quality of education. ”
Priorities vary from campus to campus but 
include hiring more faculty to combat the increasing 
enrollment, hiring more TAs and lowering the 
student-to-faculty ratio. Most of the increase in the 
student services fee will go to improving mental 
health facilities for students. 
“The revenue from the tuition and fee increase [will 
provide UC students] with more than $540 million, 
including more than $250 million directly from the 
university to help pay for educational expenses [aside 
from] tuition, ” Vazquez told the Guardian.
Students covered by financial aid will also receive 
funds to pay for expenses besides tuition, such as B y  Promit a Nandy   SENIOR Staff WriterUCSD
The trial, which started enrolling patients, will introduce antibodies into the immune system.See TUITION , page 3
SCITECH
BY   R e b e c ca  C h o n g
SENIOR STAFF writer
See CANCER  , page 3
Photo by Patrick Lazo// UCSD GuardianBY L a u r e n  H o l t
NEWS EDITOR
Immunotherapy Study for Rare Cancers BeginsEVERY WEEK DINING HALLS AT 
UCSD THROW OUT SEVERAL 
POUNDS OF PERFECTLY 
USABLE FOOD – FOOD THAT 
COULD FEED PEOPLE IN NEED. 
THE GUARDIAN SPOKE TO 
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN FOOD 
RECOVERY AT UCSD TO LEARN 
ABOUT THEIR EFFORTS AND 
WHAT STUDENTS CAN DO TO 
CUT DOWN ON THEIR OWN 
FOOD WASTE.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ON A  ROLL
W. Basketball Wins 12  In A Row
sports,  P age  15FOOD W ASTE A T UCSD
See FOSSIL FUEL , page 3“2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES  By Alex Lee
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La J ollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 b urrito & 2 Mexican soda sDine-in onlPresent this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRE S 2/13/17YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.org
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. You can find the link in the description.
Take our Entertainment Survey to be entered for 
the chance to win a $10 Starbucks gift card.studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Margus is alive and well.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Rosina Garcia 
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatHello again friends!  I hope this 
week has been treating you well. The 
A.S. Senate Meeting on the Jan. 25 
was a rather short one, but a lot of 
important material was covered so 
let’s jump right in. 
The meeting began on one of those 
a abundantly chilly January evenings. 
The sun had set, and I made my way to 
the warm senate room bundled in fifty 
layers of clothing. The meeting began 
with public input from Burgundy 
Fletcher, the Vice President of the 
Native American Student Alliance 
and a co-author of the resolution that 
would pass through the senate today.
Senator Evan Jan gave a 
fantastic presentation about the 
Standing Rules of A.S. Council. 
In his presentation he highlighted 
the many of the major issues of 
the documentation of Associated 
Students. From formatting issues 
to irregular font use, Senator Jan 
brought forth some of the issues 
that he has identified as needing 
to be fixed immediately such as 
little clarity of the responsibility 
of senators, irregular sorting, and missing procedure (like the 
previously missing procedure 
of reappointment in the case of 
the resignation/removal of a Vice 
President.) When discussing 
solutions, Senator Jan recommended 
reformatting, simplifying and 
adding a table of contents. Senator 
Jan also mentioned progress reports 
and performance reports to increase 
transparency, along with publishing 
minutes from meeting.
Props to Senator Jan for the 
presentation. I am looking forward 
to the implementation of some of 
the solutions he mentioned for 
the many problems plaguing the 
Standing Rules.
President Daniel Juarez 
announced a Q&A session for VP 
external selection. In absence of an 
election, the Q&A session will serve 
as a channel of direct student input 
to the selection committee on the 
decision. Date to be announced. 
Financial Controller Pennish 
reminded the council that UC San 
Diego A.S. has teamed up with Uber 
to provide safe rides from UCSD in 
the now extended times of 6 p.m. 
to 3 a.m., seven days a week, for 
rides up to $10. Visit as.ucsd.edu/
saferides for more information on how to use it. 
President Juarez announced 
Open Forums for the position of 
Basic Needs Coordinator. As this 
paper goes to press, you will still 
be able to attend the session on 
Friday, Feb. 3 at 10:15 a.m. in the 
LGBT Resource Center Conference 
Room. This is a really important 
position because it coordinates 
many of the basic need efforts that 
have been thought of in the basic 
needs committee. This position is 
one that provides the structure for 
the ideas to become reality
The Senate moved to order into 
new business, where there was a 
motion to add a resolution calling 
for administration to hire Native 
American faculty. This resolution is 
of acute importance now. Although 
UCSD claims to advocate the 
“increase the diversity of our faculty 
to enhance our intellectual, ethnic 
and cultural diversity, ” there are 
currently no professors who self-
identify as Native American as of 
January 2017. The resolution was 
passed with no objections. 
In an additional point of news, 
President Juarez has noted that, due 
to it being winter quarter, there 
is a need to find a new elections manager for the upcoming elections. 
Anyone interested should contract 
President Juarez.
As for Senator Projects, Eleanor 
Roosevelt College Senator Matthew 
Arrollado has partnered up with 
the Sexual Assault Resource Center 
for a Valentine’s Day event on Feb. 
13 on Ridgewalk from 12 p.m. to 
2 p.m. The event features a healthy 
relationship board along with 
distribution of relevant literature and 
consent buttons. Make sure to come 
check it out to learn about consent 
and healthy relationships! Senator 
Ricky Flahive has been working as 
an A.S. liaison to Triton Television. 
He has plans to work with his own 
production team from Triton TV 
to make five-minute recap videos of 
A.S. Council meetings every week. 
Hopefully he isn’t too successful or 
else he will put me out of my job. 
 P .S. Shout out to Financial Chair 
Pennish for the shoutout in meeting.
A.S. Council Senate meetings are 
open to the public and take place 
Wednesdays starting at 6 p.m. at 
the PC Forum, located on the fourth 
floor of Price Center. Senate Passes Resolution Calling for Hiring of  Native American Faculty
A.S. Council will also hold public hearings for students to ask questions to candidates for the Basic Needs Coordinator position.A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.edu
.com/ucsdguardian@ucsdguardianNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
thing, ” Patel told the Guardian. “ At 
a broader level, our hope is that this 
allows for more clinical trials to be 
done in rare tumors and especially 
in immunotherapeutics — [UCSD 
is going to be integrated….] on 
the scientific aspect [of studying 
the tumors to better]... understand 
the patient’s cancer and immune 
response to these therapies … 
I’m excited for both the bench 
and bedside components of                              
this protocol. ” 
Dr. Razelle Kurzrock, the 
co-principle investigator of the 
DART study, also runs a rare tumor 
clinic out of UCSD’s Moores Cancer 
Center. She gave insight into the 
struggles faced by patients with 
rare tumors who often have few 
resources for treatment.
“For those patients [with rare 
tumors], there are not a lot of 
options — no FDA approved therapy or even a clinical trial — because 
most clinical trials are aimed at 
common tumors like breast, lung 
and so forth, ” Kurzrock explained 
to the Guardian. “That is why we 
started the rare tumor clinic … 
because cumulatively there are a 
lot of patients suffering and have 
nowhere to turn to. ”
This lack of basic research into 
rare tumors is being addressed 
by the NCI, one of the National 
Institutes of Health’s many 
divisions. Dr. Sharon Elad, a 
senior investigator in the institute’s 
Investigational Drug Branch that 
works on immunotherapy drug 
development, described the role the 
NCI plays in funding these trials all 
across the country.
“We give money to groups like 
[the Southwest Oncology Group] 
… or sometimes specifically to 
institutions like UCSD, ” Elad told 
the Guardian. “The NCI tries to complement what industry does on 
its own …[which] tends to focus on 
common cancers. There are different 
incentives that the government tries 
to use to get them to work in rarer 
tumors, but a lot of the work on 
rare tumors ends up coming from 
the NCI. ”
Elad also explained how the 
recruitment process of this study will 
draw from NCI-MATCH, a clinical 
trial that analyzes patient tumors for 
gene abnormalities that have drugs 
that can target them. Participants 
with rare cancers are hard to find by 
virtue of having rare tumors; DART 
aims to enroll 300 participants in 
its trial. Participants who were not 
eligible for NCI-MATCH but have a 
rare cancer specified in the protocol 
can also enroll, allowing greater 
access to clinical trials and potential 
treatments they did not have before. books, housing, and transportation.
Associated Student Council 
President Daniel Juarez, who 
participated in the protest, spoke 
to the Guardian about her thoughts 
on the tuition hikes as a response 
to inflation. 
“I understand that money 
is needed for the [University of 
California], ” she explained. “The 
UC [system] is in a place where it 
needs to be sustained financially; 
I understand and agree with that 
100 percent. I don’t agree with the 
fact that students need to pay for it 
because we have been paying for the 
increases for over a decade. ” 
Ly Nguyen, a graduate student 
from the ethnic studies department 
attending the protest today also 
expressed concerns that the UC 
system is becoming increasingly 
privatized.
“I don’t want to use this myth 
of the golden time when education 
is free because every historical era 
has its own flaws, ” she clarified. 
“But the fact that the UC system is 
gradually becoming privatized, and 
[it is] investing in a lot of national 
projects like the prison industry 
and the private banking system 
and things like that, while students 
have to pay  the price. I think it’s 
important for students to realize 
that this is the battle they are going 
to have to fight now. ”
Juarez also pointed out that, 
although state officials helped ensure 
tuition would not rise in 2014, they 
have not provided adequate support 
for higher education over the past 
couple of years.
“ Addressing UC’s accountability 
issue as an excuse to not fund higher 
education properly is no longer an 
acceptable excuse, I would argue, ” 
Juarez said. “Because that’s the 
excuse that’s been given to us in the 
past you know. Students mobilized 
and we worked with the state in 
2014...they were supposed to be the 
ally that we had in terms of higher education funding and then we were 
let down. ”
With regards to preventing tuition 
hikes now and in the future, Juarez 
discussed that she would be looking 
for different ways to mobilize and unite 
students while also finding alternative 
ways to fund higher education, 
including starting conversations about 
rolling back tuition.
“I am going to use my position to 
keep pushing the student narrative 
that’s valuable that we need to 
hear, I really hope to keep doing 
that, ” Juarez said. “I think that at 
the administration’s level, it’ll be 
expressing that we’re discontent 
with this decision. Also, trying to 
mobilize other students as a whole 
by partnering with our graduate 
students and our faculty. I think 
together we have a lot of similar 
interests and we are really powerful. 
At the state level, I think we are 
going to have to lobby the state…
at the rate that the state is funding 
us, this [raising tuition] is not going 
to be uncommon. We need to start 
talking about what we can do to 
get a tuition rollback … understand 
what is necessary to do that and do 
it or do something to make higher 
education more affordable … there’s 
a lot that could be done and we need 
the money but we also need the 
priorities from those higher up to 
commit to our needs. ”
The UC Board of Regents 
previously voted to approve a 
tuition hike in 2014 that would 
have increased tuition by up to 
five percent annually through the 
2019-2020 academic year. The 
proposal resulted in protests across 
the UC campuses, and, following 
negotiations with the state to 
provide more funding, the increase 
was ultimately not enforced.
Additional reporting by Tina 
Butoiu and Lauren Holt.“We have a public meeting this 
Thursday at 4 p.m., we’re actually 
going to have an information 
session about steps you can take 
and how you can help, ” Jew said. 
“We’re also going to have Fossil Fuel 
Divestment meetings weekly in the Sustainability Resource Center. ”
Sixth College junior Natasha 
Gunawan emphasized the 
importance of  involvement, stating  
“It’s pushing the UC Regents to 
consider this action more when 
there’s a large student body pushing 
for it. ”
SSC has also launched campaigns calling for the elimination of plastic 
water bottles on campus and 
increasing accessibility to bicycles 
by repurposing abandoned ones. 
Aarthi Venkat contributed to this 
report.  ▶ TUITION,  from page 1 ▶ CANCER,  from page 1 Juarez: We Need to Find Alternative Ways 
to Fund Higher Education to Avoid HikesNational Cancer Institute Is Increasing Research Into Rare Tumors
SSC Hopes to Eliminate the Use of  Plastic Water Bottles on Campus
▶ FOSSIL FUEL,  from page 1
Lauren Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu
Promit a Nand y  pnandy@UCSD.EDURebecca Chong  rcchong@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. You can find the link in the description.
Take our Entertainment Survey to be entered for 
the chance to win a $10 Starbucks gift card.studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce164  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org OPINION
Faced with the cold of winter and 
the force of water cannons, thousands 
of protesters at Standing Rock Sioux 
Reservation camped out for months 
in an attempt to reject a reroute of 
the Dakota Access Pipeline through 
Native American land. Two months 
after the U.S. Court of Appeals denied 
an injunction to prevent the crude 
oil pipeline’s advancement, the Army 
Corps of Engineers made the decision 
to a construction in December.
Last Tuesday, President Trump 
signed an executive order to advance 
approval of the Keystone XL and 
Dakota Access pipelines, proving 
temporary the “victory for protesters” 
headlined by news sources following 
the Army Corps’ announcement.
Dave Archambault II, chairman 
of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, 
said at the time of the Army Corps’ 
decision to halt construction: “We 
have to persevere. Trump’s right next 
in line. ”  But his quotes were placed at 
the very end of news articles reporting 
a success.
Two months out, the stark 
change in the story of the Dakota 
Access Pipeline speaks to the fact 
that landmark victories can dissipate 
with an ounce of the publicity and 
urgency with which they were fought 
for, due to strategy, timing, lack of 
proactive leadership or presence of undemocratic leadership.
As protesters gathered, calls were 
made — namely by Senator Bernie 
Sanders — to declare Standing Rock a 
federal monument in order to prevent 
the corporate invasion of indigenous 
land that would follow. 
“In any and every way you can, 
stop the pipeline, ” Sanders said in 
November outside of the White 
House.
If Archambault foresaw what a 
Trump administration could mean for 
the future of Standing Rock, Obama 
lacked foresight, never furnishing 
Standing Rock with this designation. 
Though this demand fizzled out 
following the move of the Army Corps 
of Engineers, it should never have 
been disqualified. What Obama didn’t 
do in the face of formidable corporate 
interests failed protesters and the 
Sioux tribe simply because the fate of 
the pipeline never boiled down to a 
halt-or-no-halt decision at the hands 
of the Army Corps.
The scope of an action’s potential 
results can be narrowed by the 
people who have culpability in its 
outcome and by the people who report 
on it. In being described as more 
ultimate and irrefutable than they are, 
so-called victories can signal falsely 
that an unfinished objective has been 
accomplished, or that there are fewer feasible options available than there 
are in reality. This happens on such a 
microscale as this university. 
For one, there’s the future of the 
University Art Gallery. 
After announcing last Spring that 
the UAG would be closed, students 
responded with petitions and protest. 
Many cited the fact that UC San Diego 
would become the only UC school 
to lack an art gallery. Following this 
reaction, the university revealed a 
change in plans via email, announcing 
the decision to “remove the UAG from 
consideration for redevelopment at 
this time. ”  
Immediately, it seemed like a 
victory. In some ways, it was. Unlike 
Graffiti Hall and the Crafts Center, the 
UAG would not be shut down at that 
time due to its failure to be profitable.
But between the lines — and even 
inside of them, through phrasings like 
“at this time” and “remaining open 
to considering a viable proposition 
for [its] revitalization” — reads a new 
message: It could be shut in the near 
future, perhaps during summer, when 
students are generally gone and unable 
to protest. 
After all, as discussed in a San 
Diego City Beat profile on the UAG, 
Visual Arts Department Chair In March of 1958, scientist Charles 
Keeling began monitoring atmospheric 
carbon dioxide levels at the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography at the 
behest of then-director Roger Revelle. 
Two years later, Keeling became the 
first to alert the world to the hazard 
of alarming increases in atmospheric 
carbon dioxide, laying the blame at the 
combustion of fossil fuels. Since then, 
UC San Diego and SIO have been at the 
forefront of climate change research; 
just this month, a new model from 
SIO demonstrated the link between 
rising greenhouse gas emissions and 
the declining circulation of water in 
the Atlantic Ocean. With President 
Trump’s promise to eliminate $14 
billion of federal funding for climate 
change research, this tradition of giving 
students opportunities to grow through 
hands-research under the best minds 
in the world, opportunities like the 
Keeling and the Atlantic circulation 
projects, is put at risk. 
Most alarmingly, cuts to climate 
change research are only the tip of 
the iceberg. Last year, UCSD and 
SIO spent a combined $1.3 billion on 
total research, 58 percent of which came from federal agencies. The 
Department of Energy, whose new 
secretary once called climate change 
science a “contrived, phony mess, ” 
funds both the Keeling project and 
the SIO model. The National Institute 
of Health, which Trump has judged as 
“terrible, ” contributed $365 million to 
UCSD’ s 2016 research budget. Gutting 
these institutions and defunding long-
term fields of study simply because 
they are not squarely within his 
populist parameters is short-sighted 
and downright negligent. Among 
the casualties of Trump’ s agenda are 
women’s reproductive health and green energy development, major 
fields that require continuous scientific 
contributions in order to have any 
chance at producing results that the 
country needs to remain competitive. 
To make matters worse, UCSD 
lacks the financial resources to make 
up for any reductions in government 
support. UCSD may be ranked eighth 
in terms of federal research dollars, but 
its competitors all have endowments 
in the billions of dollars and deep-
pocketed alumni networks that can 
guarantee continued funding for 
at-risk projects; UCSD, due in part to 
its relative youth, has a comparatively paltry $600 million endowment 
and a burgeoning but still fledgling 
development arm. UCSD simply does 
not have the capability to solicit the 
private donations that have poured into 
now-federally blacklisted organizations 
like National Public Radio and Planned 
Parenthood, meaning that cuts to 
research are inevitable. 
Research is the lifeblood of STEM-
heavy institutions like UCSD, without 
which they are unable able to secure 
the best and brightest leaders in their 
given fields from competitors. The 
doctoral candidates and professors 
who undertake the projects that make UCSD one of the premier research 
universities in the world will have no 
choice but to seek out better-funded 
schools in order to continue their 
research, leaving students without 
the basic opportunities they need to 
gain experience, make connections, 
and start their careers. This will only 
grow the disparity between public 
and private universities: those with 
the resources to weather politically-
induced shortfalls versus those 
more vulnerably dependent on the            
federal government. 
Trump promised to “Make 
America Great Again, ” to rebuild the 
public institutions that have nurtured 
American growth and security since 
the end of the second world war, but 
his actions will only have the effect 
of hollowing out the very institutions 
he has sworn to protect. By fiat of 
executive orders, by the power of the 
purse provisioned by the Republican-
led Congress, he has successively 
moved to grow private education from 
kindergarten through the university 
level- first through his preference for 
1
BY KENNETH SCHRUPP // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Should federal research dollars continue to evaporate, 
core establishments of  the meritocracy and accessibility on 
which public universities were principled will continue to be 
eroded, leaving behind the would-be Nobel Laureates and 
captains of  industry who would move our country forward. 
BY QUINN PIEPER // OPINION EDITORDefunding Environmental Research Will Hinder 
Progress at Universities Reliant on GrantsILLUSTRRATION  BY  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
See SCIENCE page 5
See PROTEST page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
YOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.eduJake Greenstein describes a steady 
defunding of the art gallery. The 
position of gallery director became 
supplemental to teaching positions at 
the university, and as of Spring of 
2015 there have been no full-time 
employees at the gallery.
Without any guarantee or even 
true indication of future efforts, the 
saving of the art gallery could turn out 
temporary, a decision made to appease 
those who opposed its elimination. 
Questions linger: if the number of 
UC managers and administrators 
has doubled across the past 15 years 
while that of faculty has remained 
constant, what’s one more for an art 
gallery? Or rather, what’s one more on 
a campus whose art spaces have been 
closed down for lack of profitability? 
Or instead, as Greenstein points out, 
a vote like that on entering Division 
I athletics?As incomparable as the 
construction of the DAPL and the 
livelihood of the UAG are, both show 
the tendency of victories surrounding 
collective action to be challenged by 
power figures who disagree with the 
way things played out.
Chelsea Manning, in her first 
column since the announcement of 
her pardoning, writes of Obama’s 
legacy: “Over the last eight years, 
there have been very few permanent 
accomplishments. ” 
With this in mind, there is a need 
for leaders in uncertain circumstances 
to be proactive rather than merely 
hopeful. And there’s a need for hope. 
But in some ways, it’s up to the people 
who wield power to stop, to listen 
and to recognize what they can do to 
translate the widespread momentum 
of hope into meaningful change.school vouchers and now through 
his defunding of public universities. 
T o give all people the opportunity to 
succeed, they must have equal access to 
institutions that can provide the basic 
skills they need to participate in the 
modern labor force. Public institutions 
are often the only financially feasible 
options for the vast majority of 
Americans and have traditionally 
been able to compete with the best 
of private universities, but should 
federal research dollars continue to 
evaporate, core establishments of the 
meritocracy and accessibility on which 
public universities were principled will 
continue to erode, leaving behind the 
would-be Nobel Laureates and captains 
of industry who would move our 
country forward. 
YOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.edu
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian▶ PROTEST, from page 4
Kenneth Schrupp    kschrupp@UCSD.EDU▶ SCIENCE, from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
quinn pieper    opinion@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
On the second floor of the Old Student Center sits Sara 
Rupp and the Food Recovery Network’s home base of 
operations. The office through which they are making a 
monumental change in their community looks rather drab. The 
placard outside has the old occupants’ student org name on it, 
with a paper that reads “Food Recovery Network” taped on it. 
Rupp remarks that they haven’t been here long, and that they 
still need to get that changed. 
Rupp beamed as I met with her, proud and excited to share 
the work that her club had been doing. Behind her stood three 
simple coolers that you would normally take to a beach party or 
a picnic. These coolers never had that function though: Instead, 
they were used to recover food that would have been wasted 
otherwise. I was truly touched that out of this small office came 
big change.
Rupp met with her friends after quitting HDH, tired of being 
an implicit perpetrator of wasteful behavior and wanting to do 
something about it. 
“I was working as prep cook in catering. I was actually a 
lead which is one step up from prep cook, and I hated having 
to throw out food, ” Rupp said. “So we just got together in an 
apartment and started tossing out ideas about how to address 
it, and we had no idea how to do it at first. ” They did not let 
their confusion stop them from solving this issue they found. 
Without hesitance, they petitioned HDH at various levels of 
the administration, and though it took a year, they were able to 
spark an agreement that would allow them to repurpose food. 
To further legitimize themselves, they became a chapter of the 
Food Recovery Network, a national organization. Though it 
took a whole year of negotiation with HDH and there was a lot 
of red tape, they got finally got started.
They recover food from various locations like the farmer’s 
market, faculty lounges, four dining halls and UC San Diego’s 
catering four times a week. The Food Recovery Network 
recovers food as diverse as salmon belly, ribs, bacon brussel 
sprouts, and mac and cheese. These foods have been hand-prepared with the choicest of ingredients. If they had been 
thrown out, not only would the food itself have been wasted, 
but the hours spent by UCSD student cooks and HDH chefs 
as well. 
The Food Recovery Network does all this, maintaining 
the strictest of food safety precautions to ensure that its aid 
is brought in perfect condition. The average UCSD student, 
who does not enjoy eating leftovers and is quick to throw away 
food, can learn from their efforts and educate themselves on 
the real shelf life of their leftovers in order to reduce waste and             
save money. 
“ A lot of our legitimacy is from our food safety requirements, ” 
Rupp said. “Basically we work under the Emerson Good 
Samaritan Act, which is from the ‘90s. ” This protective law 
ensures that HDH is not responsible for any food recovered 
from them by an independent entity that is then donated to a 
separate entity. The Food Recovery Network essentially takes 
the burden of responsibility in ensuring that food donated 
meets health standards. They do this by taking the temperature 
of the good at recovery and when it is delivered, maintaining 
strict logs throughout. 
Asking Rupp who their recoveries benefited, I was ecstatic 
with her response. “We donate to a local shelter for youth 
of 18–26 year olds. It's called Urban Street Angels and it's in 
North Park off the 805, ” Rupp said smiling and sitting up more 
in her chair. “Most of them come from foster care, have drug 
addictions [or] whatever reason, but this shelter supports them 
through a few night shelters a week and dinners. Our food 
supplies 85 percent of the food they serve. So we’re making a 
big difference there surprisingly quickly. ” 
Not only have they made an impact on the San Diego 
community but also on HDH policy. 
“ At least UCSD is improving, and I have to say it is because 
of us, because we are holding [it] more accountable, ” Rupp said. 
“A n d  w e’r e  r e c o r d i n g  [ i t s ]  w a s t e ,  a n d  [ i t  i s ]  m o r e  a w a r e  o f  i t .”
Christine Clark, manager of UCSD University 
COMBA TING W ASTE A T UCSDBy Dominic Spencer 
Staff Writer
SeeFOOD WASTE , page 7Every week HDH throws out several pounds of perfectly edible food – food that could better be used 
elsewhere. The UCSD Guardian interviewed students on the front lines of making a difference in 
sustainability and food reclamation in the San Diego community. photo courtesy of Food Recovery Network at UCSDFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
At 14 years old, when most teenage 
girls were preoccupied with other 
engagements, a young Professor Mary 
McKay began to work. Her intellectual 
restlessness and love for change has 
driven her to become a passionate 
college professor. 
The courses she teaches 
correspond with her undergraduate 
studies of psychology and business 
administration along with her 
doctoral degree in leadership studies. 
She hopes that by engaging students 
and giving them tools to become great 
leaders, they can build their own path 
to success and happiness.
By no means is this an easy task, 
but as last year's’ Distinguished 
Teaching Award recipient from UC 
San Diego’s Office of Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion, Professor Mary McKay 
is leading the charge. 
Professor McKay is part of the 
teaching faculty at Rady School             
of Management at UCSD. She                 
teaches nine sections over the 
academic year, typically “Business 
& Organizational Leadership” and 
“Managing Diverse Teams.”
She moved to Rady School 
of Business at UCSD in 2011 after 
working for the University of San 
Diego School of Business for many 
years. The shift from teaching at a 
small private university to a large 
public one was tough at first as 
class sizes became much larger, but 
Professor McKay kept it a priority to 
get to know her students to the best 
of her ability. 
“I’ll never forget when a student 
told me he had been at UCSD for four 
years, and I was the first professor 
who knew his name, ” McKay told the 
UCSD Guardian. “The memory acts 
as a reminder to me of the importance 
of human connection, even when the 
circumstances don’t make it easy. ”
Human connection is one key to 
classroom engagement, according to 
Professor McKay, but it is definitely 
not the only one. She believes that 
full classroom engagement involves 
a deeper interaction with course 
materials through both readings and 
in-class discussions and has used 
lecture time as an avenue for students 
to openly express their opinions         
on both.
Professor McKay’s lectures are 
guided by PowerPoint, but they also 
make room for exemplary stories, pair 
work, group work, debates and of 
course, questions. This style facilitates 
riveting in-class discussion, ultimately 
serving as a testament to her efforts 
in choosing, planning and creating 
exceptional course materials. 
Since she’s been at UCSD, Professor 
McKay has tackled four new courses.   
“This is the creative aspect of my 
work and a favorite part of my job, ” 
McKay said. “I tell my students how 
exciting and anxiety-producing it is to 
present 10 weeks of new material for 
the first time. ”With each new course Professor 
McKay begins with about 80 percent 
in place and as the course progresses 
gains a better idea of how well her 
students are grasping the material. 
The more in tune with course 
objectives and materials students are, 
the more in depth and productive 
their discussion. 
“Students show me what’s possible 
as I watch them absorb content, 
connect the dots within the course 
itself and test ideas in both professional 
and personal environments,”                                 
McKay said.
This is why she never writes the 
10th-week lecture of a new course 
before she’s given the first nine 
weeks. Each course ending the first 
time through is unique, since it’s the 
students who ultimately shape what 
the last few lectures will look like. 
“Consistently student response 
to course content takes me places 
beyond my original expectation, ” 
McKay said. “This is a great joy in the 
classroom, and it doesn’t stop with the 
first classroom cohort. ”
Adding new material to a course 
can be tricky, and tying in major 
current events to course material 
can be even trickier. Nonetheless, 
Professor McKay has learned that it’s 
important to take some risks, as she 
recently offered some of her class time 
to discuss the Nov. 8 election.
“That morning of Nov. 10, I 
reminded students that the classroom 
was as much theirs as mine, and I 
wanted them to feel free to express 
a feeling, state an opinion or ask a 
question, ” McKay said. 
One particular section of her 
“Business and Organizational 
Leadership” class turned out to be 
quite memorable. 
“I was impressed with how 
thoughtful, passionate, articulate 
and respectful of others my students 
were, ” McKay said. “Feelings were so 
raw and the room was heavy with 
emotion, but my students not only 
allowed for multiple perspectives, but 
without being asked, they connected 
their words to the readings for that 
day’s lecture. ”
Jason Grimm, who was taking 
Professor McKay’s “Business and 
Organizational Leadership” course 
at the time of the election, recalls           
the occasion.
“That day demonstrated her 
commitment to a healthy campus 
climate because she enabled students 
who felt any range of emotions to 
share, ” Grimm told the Guardian. “I 
think ignoring such a momentous 
occasion would have been pointless 
given the atmosphere in the room. I 
felt better after the discussion even 
though I was still disappointed in the 
election returns. ”
Professor McKay had hoped for 
this release of emotional tension, 
which in turn produced heartfelt 
discussion of the day’s readings on authentic leadership. 
“It should be no surprise that even 
after I launched the planned lecture, 
the class was incredible — rich with 
thoughtful dialogue and students 
connecting to one another, not just 
through me, ” McKay said. 
That is perhaps the essence of 
Professor McKay’s teaching style: 
the focus is never on her; it’s on her 
students. She holds each and every 
one of her students to a higher 
standard, treating them as smart, 
capable individuals and soon-to-be 
professionals. She harnesses mutual 
respect and growth, as every lecture 
is planned and delivered to the T, 
ensuring students absorb as much 
knowledge as they possibly can.
“My favorite thing about her 
courses is how knowledgeable she is 
about the subject and how easy it is for her to engage with her students about 
the material, ” Grimm said. “That 
really helped me learn and made me 
feel like an active learner. ”
Professor McKay continues to 
provide students with knowledge 
on how to become great leaders in 
both their current lives and future 
workplaces. Through her many 
lectures over the years she has given 
thousands of students a toolbox for 
success, allowing them to unleash 
their leadership potential. Seeing her 
students grow is one of her biggest 
inspirations in life. 
“I get to watch as students prepare 
to launch their professional lives. It’s 
a time of great pride and promise, 
ambition and anxiety, ” McKay said. 
“Students have four years to fill 
themselves up with knowledge, to 
form key relationships with mentors, advisors and friends and to find 
and explore the myriad of pathways 
available to them upon graduation. ”
Becoming a leader in your own 
right takes hard work, courage and a 
plethora of personal growth. Nobody 
said becoming a great leader would 
be easy, but Professor McKay reminds 
UCSD students that they must keep 
reaching for it and gives them the tools 
to do so.
“When students can make sense of 
the big picture of their undergraduate 
education, when they have crafted 
their narrative and can speak about 
themselves, their purpose and goal 
with confidence, they are ready for the 
future. And I am inspired every time. ”BEHIND THE LECTERN
Mary McKay - Training the Next Generation of LeadersBy Noam Leead  / / Staff Writer
Noam  LEEAD  nleead@ucsd.edu
Communications and Public Affairs, told the Guardian 
about HDH’s commitment to sustainability and an “efficient 
and sustainable business model. ” She continued by saying 
that all the new buildings are pursuing Leadership in 
Energy & Environmental Design certification. The LEED 
certification is a green building certification program that 
recognizes best-in-class building strategies and practices. 
Clark reaffirmed that the style in which HDH serves 
food is geared toward a more sustainable model and that 
the a la carte service is purposed toward proper portion 
control and mitigation of food waste, relative to a buffet 
style. “We believe that our plan and offerings helps guests 
not over-portion and waste a sizable amount of food, as 
most other universities note a large amount of loss via 
guests’ eyes being too big for their stomachs, resulting in 
thrown-out product, ” Clark said.
In spite of these moves toward sustainability, HDH has 
had to counter claims that it is managing waste inefficiently. “I know someone who said they were ‘sorting’ trash 
and recycling, but really everything goes to the same place 
[and they don’t really recycle them], ” Thurgood Marshall 
College junior Nicole Ekiss told the Guardian. 
Y et Clark reaffirmed that they are committed to full 
sustainability efforts. My words with Clark dispelled a little 
of my previous notions. 
Regardless, it is the work of students to hold our 
businesses and school accountable. It also requires a 
personal effort in our daily lives to contribute to creating a 
greater caring culture on campus. 
“I try to reduce my waste production by using a reusable 
water bottle and using Tupperware over plastic bags when I 
pack lunch and reusable bags when I shop, ” Revelle junior 
Morgan McCullough told the Guardian.
Nicole Ekiss echoed the same sentiment and gave 
some tips for sustainability when living on campus. “To 
limit my waste production, when I lived on campus, I tried to minimize how much food I took to go [from 
the dining halls] because that required disposable plates/
bowls/utensils. ”
HDH encourages students to join them in a 
sustainability movement as well by suggesting guests avoid 
using paper and plastic products in-house and instead use 
the reusable ware. Clark said, “Guests are also encouraged 
to bring their own cups/travelers; [this is incentivized] via a                                                    
20-cent discount. ”
Rupp, as a testament to the power of organized student 
action, had some parting words to students who see an 
issue that puts a fire in their belly and is wanting of change. 
“I think to be successful you first have to have passion and 
indignation. And also people skills, because you can't do 
it alone. ” 
Dominic SPencer  D1spence@ucsd.edu▶ FOOD WASTE , from page 6
photo by Christian Duarte//UCSD Guardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
On the second floor of the Old Student Center sits Sara 
Rupp and the Food Recovery Network’s home base of 
operations. The office through which they are making a 
monumental change in their community looks rather drab. The 
placard outside has the old occupants’ student org name on it, 
with a paper that reads “Food Recovery Network” taped on it. 
Rupp remarks that they haven’t been here long, and that they 
still need to get that changed. 
Rupp beamed as I met with her, proud and excited to share 
the work that her club had been doing. Behind her stood three 
simple coolers that you would normally take to a beach party or 
a picnic. These coolers never had that function though: Instead, 
they were used to recover food that would have been wasted 
otherwise. I was truly touched that out of this small office came 
big change.
Rupp met with her friends after quitting HDH, tired of being 
an implicit perpetrator of wasteful behavior and wanting to do 
something about it. 
“I was working as prep cook in catering. I was actually a 
lead which is one step up from prep cook, and I hated having 
to throw out food, ” Rupp said. “So we just got together in an 
apartment and started tossing out ideas about how to address 
it, and we had no idea how to do it at first. ” They did not let 
their confusion stop them from solving this issue they found. 
Without hesitance, they petitioned HDH at various levels of 
the administration, and though it took a year, they were able to 
spark an agreement that would allow them to repurpose food. 
To further legitimize themselves, they became a chapter of the 
Food Recovery Network, a national organization. Though it 
took a whole year of negotiation with HDH and there was a lot 
of red tape, they got finally got started.
They recover food from various locations like the farmer’s 
market, faculty lounges, four dining halls and UC San Diego’s 
catering four times a week. The Food Recovery Network 
recovers food as diverse as salmon belly, ribs, bacon brussel 
sprouts, and mac and cheese. These foods have been hand-prepared with the choicest of ingredients. If they had been 
thrown out, not only would the food itself have been wasted, 
but the hours spent by UCSD student cooks and HDH chefs 
as well. 
The Food Recovery Network does all this, maintaining 
the strictest of food safety precautions to ensure that its aid 
is brought in perfect condition. The average UCSD student, 
who does not enjoy eating leftovers and is quick to throw away 
food, can learn from their efforts and educate themselves on 
the real shelf life of their leftovers in order to reduce waste and             
save money. 
“ A lot of our legitimacy is from our food safety requirements, ” 
Rupp said. “Basically we work under the Emerson Good 
Samaritan Act, which is from the ‘90s. ” This protective law 
ensures that HDH is not responsible for any food recovered 
from them by an independent entity that is then donated to a 
separate entity. The Food Recovery Network essentially takes 
the burden of responsibility in ensuring that food donated 
meets health standards. They do this by taking the temperature 
of the good at recovery and when it is delivered, maintaining 
strict logs throughout. 
Asking Rupp who their recoveries benefited, I was ecstatic 
with her response. “We donate to a local shelter for youth 
of 18–26 year olds. It's called Urban Street Angels and it's in 
North Park off the 805, ” Rupp said smiling and sitting up more 
in her chair. “Most of them come from foster care, have drug 
addictions [or] whatever reason, but this shelter supports them 
through a few night shelters a week and dinners. Our food 
supplies 85 percent of the food they serve. So we’re making a 
big difference there surprisingly quickly. ” 
Not only have they made an impact on the San Diego 
community but also on HDH policy. 
“ At least UCSD is improving, and I have to say it is because 
of us, because we are holding [it] more accountable, ” Rupp said. 
“A n d  w e’r e  r e c o r d i n g  [ i t s ]  w a s t e ,  a n d  [ i t  i s ]  m o r e  a w a r e  o f  i t .”
Christine Clark, manager of UCSD University 
COMBA TING W ASTE A T UCSDBy Dominic Spencer 
Staff Writer
SeeFOOD WASTE , page 7Every week HDH throws out several pounds of perfectly edible food – food that could better be used 
elsewhere. The UCSD Guardian interviewed students on the front lines of making a difference in 
sustainability and food reclamation in the San Diego community. photo courtesy of Food Recovery Network at UCSDFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
At 14 years old, when most teenage 
girls were preoccupied with other 
engagements, a young Professor Mary 
McKay began to work. Her intellectual 
restlessness and love for change has 
driven her to become a passionate 
college professor. 
The courses she teaches 
correspond with her undergraduate 
studies of psychology and business 
administration along with her 
doctoral degree in leadership studies. 
She hopes that by engaging students 
and giving them tools to become great 
leaders, they can build their own path 
to success and happiness.
By no means is this an easy task, 
but as last year's’ Distinguished 
Teaching Award recipient from UC 
San Diego’s Office of Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion, Professor Mary McKay 
is leading the charge. 
Professor McKay is part of the 
teaching faculty at Rady School             
of Management at UCSD. She                 
teaches nine sections over the 
academic year, typically “Business 
& Organizational Leadership” and 
“Managing Diverse Teams.”
She moved to Rady School 
of Business at UCSD in 2011 after 
working for the University of San 
Diego School of Business for many 
years. The shift from teaching at a 
small private university to a large 
public one was tough at first as 
class sizes became much larger, but 
Professor McKay kept it a priority to 
get to know her students to the best 
of her ability. 
“I’ll never forget when a student 
told me he had been at UCSD for four 
years, and I was the first professor 
who knew his name, ” McKay told the 
UCSD Guardian. “The memory acts 
as a reminder to me of the importance 
of human connection, even when the 
circumstances don’t make it easy. ”
Human connection is one key to 
classroom engagement, according to 
Professor McKay, but it is definitely 
not the only one. She believes that 
full classroom engagement involves 
a deeper interaction with course 
materials through both readings and 
in-class discussions and has used 
lecture time as an avenue for students 
to openly express their opinions         
on both.
Professor McKay’s lectures are 
guided by PowerPoint, but they also 
make room for exemplary stories, pair 
work, group work, debates and of 
course, questions. This style facilitates 
riveting in-class discussion, ultimately 
serving as a testament to her efforts 
in choosing, planning and creating 
exceptional course materials. 
Since she’s been at UCSD, Professor 
McKay has tackled four new courses.   
“This is the creative aspect of my 
work and a favorite part of my job, ” 
McKay said. “I tell my students how 
exciting and anxiety-producing it is to 
present 10 weeks of new material for 
the first time. ”With each new course Professor 
McKay begins with about 80 percent 
in place and as the course progresses 
gains a better idea of how well her 
students are grasping the material. 
The more in tune with course 
objectives and materials students are, 
the more in depth and productive 
their discussion. 
“Students show me what’s possible 
as I watch them absorb content, 
connect the dots within the course 
itself and test ideas in both professional 
and personal environments,”                                 
McKay said.
This is why she never writes the 
10th-week lecture of a new course 
before she’s given the first nine 
weeks. Each course ending the first 
time through is unique, since it’s the 
students who ultimately shape what 
the last few lectures will look like. 
“Consistently student response 
to course content takes me places 
beyond my original expectation, ” 
McKay said. “This is a great joy in the 
classroom, and it doesn’t stop with the 
first classroom cohort. ”
Adding new material to a course 
can be tricky, and tying in major 
current events to course material 
can be even trickier. Nonetheless, 
Professor McKay has learned that it’s 
important to take some risks, as she 
recently offered some of her class time 
to discuss the Nov. 8 election.
“That morning of Nov. 10, I 
reminded students that the classroom 
was as much theirs as mine, and I 
wanted them to feel free to express 
a feeling, state an opinion or ask a 
question, ” McKay said. 
One particular section of her 
“Business and Organizational 
Leadership” class turned out to be 
quite memorable. 
“I was impressed with how 
thoughtful, passionate, articulate 
and respectful of others my students 
were, ” McKay said. “Feelings were so 
raw and the room was heavy with 
emotion, but my students not only 
allowed for multiple perspectives, but 
without being asked, they connected 
their words to the readings for that 
day’s lecture. ”
Jason Grimm, who was taking 
Professor McKay’s “Business and 
Organizational Leadership” course 
at the time of the election, recalls           
the occasion.
“That day demonstrated her 
commitment to a healthy campus 
climate because she enabled students 
who felt any range of emotions to 
share, ” Grimm told the Guardian. “I 
think ignoring such a momentous 
occasion would have been pointless 
given the atmosphere in the room. I 
felt better after the discussion even 
though I was still disappointed in the 
election returns. ”
Professor McKay had hoped for 
this release of emotional tension, 
which in turn produced heartfelt 
discussion of the day’s readings on authentic leadership. 
“It should be no surprise that even 
after I launched the planned lecture, 
the class was incredible — rich with 
thoughtful dialogue and students 
connecting to one another, not just 
through me, ” McKay said. 
That is perhaps the essence of 
Professor McKay’s teaching style: 
the focus is never on her; it’s on her 
students. She holds each and every 
one of her students to a higher 
standard, treating them as smart, 
capable individuals and soon-to-be 
professionals. She harnesses mutual 
respect and growth, as every lecture 
is planned and delivered to the T, 
ensuring students absorb as much 
knowledge as they possibly can.
“My favorite thing about her 
courses is how knowledgeable she is 
about the subject and how easy it is for her to engage with her students about 
the material, ” Grimm said. “That 
really helped me learn and made me 
feel like an active learner. ”
Professor McKay continues to 
provide students with knowledge 
on how to become great leaders in 
both their current lives and future 
workplaces. Through her many 
lectures over the years she has given 
thousands of students a toolbox for 
success, allowing them to unleash 
their leadership potential. Seeing her 
students grow is one of her biggest 
inspirations in life. 
“I get to watch as students prepare 
to launch their professional lives. It’s 
a time of great pride and promise, 
ambition and anxiety, ” McKay said. 
“Students have four years to fill 
themselves up with knowledge, to 
form key relationships with mentors, advisors and friends and to find 
and explore the myriad of pathways 
available to them upon graduation. ”
Becoming a leader in your own 
right takes hard work, courage and a 
plethora of personal growth. Nobody 
said becoming a great leader would 
be easy, but Professor McKay reminds 
UCSD students that they must keep 
reaching for it and gives them the tools 
to do so.
“When students can make sense of 
the big picture of their undergraduate 
education, when they have crafted 
their narrative and can speak about 
themselves, their purpose and goal 
with confidence, they are ready for the 
future. And I am inspired every time. ”BEHIND THE LECTERN
Mary McKay - Training the Next Generation of LeadersBy Noam Leead  / / Staff Writer
Noam  LEEAD  nleead@ucsd.edu
Communications and Public Affairs, told the Guardian 
about HDH’s commitment to sustainability and an “efficient 
and sustainable business model. ” She continued by saying 
that all the new buildings are pursuing Leadership in 
Energy & Environmental Design certification. The LEED 
certification is a green building certification program that 
recognizes best-in-class building strategies and practices. 
Clark reaffirmed that the style in which HDH serves 
food is geared toward a more sustainable model and that 
the a la carte service is purposed toward proper portion 
control and mitigation of food waste, relative to a buffet 
style. “We believe that our plan and offerings helps guests 
not over-portion and waste a sizable amount of food, as 
most other universities note a large amount of loss via 
guests’ eyes being too big for their stomachs, resulting in 
thrown-out product, ” Clark said.
In spite of these moves toward sustainability, HDH has 
had to counter claims that it is managing waste inefficiently. “I know someone who said they were ‘sorting’ trash 
and recycling, but really everything goes to the same place 
[and they don’t really recycle them], ” Thurgood Marshall 
College junior Nicole Ekiss told the Guardian. 
Y et Clark reaffirmed that they are committed to full 
sustainability efforts. My words with Clark dispelled a little 
of my previous notions. 
Regardless, it is the work of students to hold our 
businesses and school accountable. It also requires a 
personal effort in our daily lives to contribute to creating a 
greater caring culture on campus. 
“I try to reduce my waste production by using a reusable 
water bottle and using Tupperware over plastic bags when I 
pack lunch and reusable bags when I shop, ” Revelle junior 
Morgan McCullough told the Guardian.
Nicole Ekiss echoed the same sentiment and gave 
some tips for sustainability when living on campus. “To 
limit my waste production, when I lived on campus, I tried to minimize how much food I took to go [from 
the dining halls] because that required disposable plates/
bowls/utensils. ”
HDH encourages students to join them in a 
sustainability movement as well by suggesting guests avoid 
using paper and plastic products in-house and instead use 
the reusable ware. Clark said, “Guests are also encouraged 
to bring their own cups/travelers; [this is incentivized] via a                                                    
20-cent discount. ”
Rupp, as a testament to the power of organized student 
action, had some parting words to students who see an 
issue that puts a fire in their belly and is wanting of change. 
“I think to be successful you first have to have passion and 
indignation. And also people skills, because you can't do 
it alone. ” 
Dominic SPencer  D1spence@ucsd.edu▶ FOOD WASTE , from page 6
photo by Christian Duarte//UCSD GuardianA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Unreal
PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHANSEN KRAUSE
COMING  ( Season 2 on  Feb. 11 )
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend  
The CW has spent the last few years going through a critical re-
appraisal of it programming. Moving away from the mentally empty, 
beautiful people of shows like “The OC, ” the network has moved 
toward deeply flawed, beautiful people that only look like they 
belong on “The OC. ” A major contributor is the Rebecca Bloom-
led series, “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend. ” Bloom’s take on Rebecca Bunch, a 
deeply flawed, beautiful and prestigious lawyer that moves from New 
Yor k  t o  C a l i for n i a  afte r  a  m i n i  bre a kd ow n  an d  bu mpi n g  i nt o  h e r  e x -
boyfriend, is a blessing to have on a network television. As raunchy 
as it is funny, “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend” makes sure to use humor and 
humanity as a way to dissect the internal maelstrom that grinds at 
oneself. This second season continues to bring together the power 
of ‘70s variety shows, friendship and mental health. This series is no 
menial musical, but a magnificent one.
—   Sam Velazquez  
A&E EditorCOMING  (  Feb. 1 )
Woman in Gold  
“Woman in Gold” follows the story of Maria Altmann, played by 
Dame Helen Mirren, as she tries to recover several family-owned 
Gustav Klimt paintings of her beloved aunt from the Austrian 
government. How the paintings ended up in the hands of the 
Austrian government is neither simple nor pretty. Combining 
flashbacks from Altmann’s experience as a Jewish woman in the 
Nazi-controlled country and her present-day legal battle against 
a nation holding the remaining art pieces of her family from her, 
the film examines the challenge of healing after a great tragedy. 
Ryan Reynolds plays her lawyer and son of her family friend, but 
he seems out of place for most of the film. He relies on his quick 
wit more than compassion, which occasionally creates awkward 
scenes. Nonetheless, the politically poignant film will be available 
for streaming on Netflix soon. 
—   Rachel novotny
Senior Staff WriterThings leave, things come. Here’s what’s what.Back i n the aughts, for a while it 
seemed like all anyone wanted 
to talk or rant about was reality 
television. Reality TV’s inevitability, 
and its genius, lies in its simplicity. 
Find a mixture of high- and low-class 
people, film them going about their 
lives and make the footage available. 
It takes the voyeurism and perversion 
at the center of all films and refines 
it into its purest form. Its existence 
and popularity were inevitable as 
soon as TV was invented. Of course 
despite its inevitability, culturally, 
reality TV isn’t easy to swallow whole. 
Reality TV is part of a larger trend of 
doing away with shame, and the desire 
to appear civilized. In 2001, David 
Foster Wallace wrote the short story 
“The Suffering Channel, ” a pointed 
critique of media with a reality show at the center of it that displays “real-
life still and moving images of the 
most intense available moments of 
human anguish. ” The 2000s were a 
bleak time: Western fashion finally 
reached its nadir with the ubiquitous 
Juicy sweatsuit, people started walking 
everywhere with bright white cords, 
pumping whole solipsistic symphonies 
directly into their skulls. It was a 
good time to be a misanthrope. But 
entropy, like justice, never sleeps and, 
culturally, this decade is beginning 
to make the last one look harmless, 
wholesome even — in a shocking twist 
we now we have a reality star leading 
the country. Thankfully, with a nice 
patina of quaintness and nostalgia, the 
delicious, sordid genre of TV from 
which he emerged isn’t spiraling 
into obsolescence anytime soon. Bobcat Goldthwait, gifted comedian 
and creator of the ultimate misanthrope 
movie “God Bless America, ” once 
compared reality TV to the Roman 
Colosseum, an arena for exploiting 
and ridiculing the most laughable, 
the most uneducated. If reality TV 
is our Colosseum, the ladies of “The 
Bachelor” are our star gladiators. They 
subject themselves to certain rejection 
by the worst guys for the sake of the 
show, taking part in a grand tradition 
of pageantry and ceremony that has 
disappeared everywhere else from 
courtship — they do it for themselves, 
and they do it for their sisters. A theory 
— everyone who used to complain 
about reality TV has stopped because 
they’ve heeded the call to complain 
about Tinder. They’ve had to move 
on from one to another, so perhaps they’ve all stopped complaining about 
it because the only reality show people 
still love to watch and talk about is 
“The Bachelor. ” Its pantomimed, 
orchestrated mating process is 
inspiring to us because the show’s 
popularity evinces some longing for a 
return to a pre-Tinder, more romantic 
time in the culture. This is a longing 
people sympathize with because they 
recognize how shambolic dating is, 
and also because they are people who 
sympathize with longings in general. 
Close your eyes and think about 
how you might try to bring the most 
amount of joy to the most amount of 
people. Realization: They did it. Over 
the years, the creators of this show 
have mastered the alchemy of finding 
the perfect women, producers and 
editors. “The Bachelorette” is garbage because the men who go on it are 
lame. They’re deadbeats “in between” 
jobs or fraternity boys with a sense of 
humor. But women who go on “The 
Bachelor” are the greatest among us. 
They have a zest for life that cannot 
be rivaled. These are pretty women, 
waging a full-out war against one 
another for an average man whom 
they all know they could secure for 
themselves in any major city on a 
weekday. The Bachelor himself is 
someone so boring that lifelong fans 
of the show who write about the show 
for fun can’t remember his name. He’ s 
awful, but that doesn’t much matter, 
he doesn’t much matter — what 
makes this show great is the women.
—   Susie  Da vidson  
Senior Staff WriterWhy reality shows are the greatest of all television and “The Bachelor” is the greatest of all reality shows.A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
The long awaited season four of 
“Sherlock” is finally available 
to fans after two years of 
anticipation, taking the show in a new, 
more character-centered direction. 
The season opens with Sherlock 
(Benedict Cumberbatch), John W atson 
(Martin Freeman) and his wife Mary 
(Amanda Abbington) as we last saw 
them in season three, reeling from the 
inexplicable message from the thought-
to-be-dead Moriarty. Recognizing 
that the best course of action is to 
carry on with life as usual, Sherlock 
and John continue to solve cases that 
involve both old and new concerns. 
Taking everything into 
consideration, the season is neither 
spectacular nor terrible, but it is 
different. General storylines continue, 
the actors portray their characters well 
and appropriately for their roles in 
the season, and none of the side plots 
distract too much from the end goal of each episode. This being said, the 
quality of the overall script and verbal 
exchanges between characters and in 
monologues has changed. Sherlock’s 
quick speech and deductions, 
previously considered by viewers to 
be charming, come off as confusing 
in this season. This feeling increases 
when combined with the sporadic, 
frantic style of filming these scenes. 
The exception to this aspect is when it 
is done to build up to a joke, since the 
sudden breaking of tension allows the 
viewer to relax in knowing that they did 
not miss any key clues in the dialogue.
Sherlock has been accused before 
of feeling more emotions than the 
cold, analytical front he puts on. Up 
until this point in the series, these 
suspicions come from subtle glimpses 
into Sherlock’s past and sentimental 
side. In season four, though, the 
slow discreteness of his character 
development is completely eradicated, and Sherlock’s personality is friendly 
and pleasant. He makes jokes, shows 
an easy affection and allows his 
external state to show internal turmoil. 
This radical change in Sherlock’s 
demeanor makes sense to a certain 
extent, considering that his prolonged 
exposure to John and Mary has softened 
his stern attitude. That being said, the 
difference between the Sherlock of this 
season and the seasons prior is one of 
night and day. As a result, this sudden 
character development is a shocking, 
almost disruptive change in the show. 
Sherlock is the notoriously indifferent 
main character of the series, and his 
dramatic emotional shift leads to the 
season taking on a more personal lens.  
While the change in Sherlock’s 
demeanor affects those around him, 
especially John and Mycroft Holmes 
(Mark Gatiss), it is more purposefully 
included trials of the season that 
develop its characters. For instance, the unexpected outcome of a case places 
strain on the relationship between John 
and Sherlock. John’s ultimate reaction 
to this event continues to show his 
amazing capacity for understanding 
and the duo becomes stronger. John 
truly epitomizes the role of a loyal 
soldier in this season, showing that he 
will stop at nothing to protect those he 
loves. In the third episode, “The Final 
Problem, ” a new character’s appearance 
forces Mycroft to once again feel 
the need to validate his intelligence 
and protect his family. As a result, 
Mycroft is further characterized as a 
big brother and a genius. Despite the 
significance of these events, however, 
the main result is that characters are 
expanded upon in expected ways, 
which adds an element of transparency 
to the emotional lens of the season.
Overall, while the fourth season 
of “Sherlock” emphasizes character 
development more than the cases, it is still worth watching. All of the 
questions that fans have been waiting 
for two years to be answered, such as 
the background story of Redbeard, are 
answered beyond satisfaction. It is a 
necessary component to the series, and 
while the emotional lens is different, 
the episodes are enjoyable to watch. 
They are all suspenseful and intriguing 
in their own right, and as usual with 
“Sherlock, ” there is a surprise twist 
to each of the episodes’ respective 
endings. The acting is superb, the sets 
are a collection of the familiar and new, 
and inside jokes from prior seasons 
are evident. Hopefully these aspects 
of the show will remain constant if the 
writers attempt to make a fifth season, 
and the emotional angle of this season 
will provide a smooth transition to it.
—   Dais y Scott
Contributing WriterThe recent season of “Sherlock” places emphasis on the emotions and characterization of characters while maintaining its intellectual charm. 
TV    REVIEW
Sherlock  (season 4 )
PHOTO COURTESY OF BBC
Starring Benedict Cumberbatch, Martin Freeman, Mark Gatiss
Runs   Season Available on Amazon
Created by   Steven Moffat, Mark GatissB  
COMING  (  Feb. 1 )
A Nightmare Before 
Christmas  
Whether it’s Christmas or Halloween time, “ A Nightmare Before 
Christmas” is a classic musical that contains cheerful Christmas vibes 
with a creepy twist. It’s filled with Tim Burton’s style of ghouls and 
monsters who love to sing tunes like the catchy “This is Halloween. ” 
Jack Skeleton, the Pumpkin King, is determined to deliver the glory 
of Christmas to Halloween Town, but it’s his love interest Sally who 
keeps him sane and adds a hopeful touch to the oblivious characters. 
Throughout the film, you witness his plan fall apart, from the kidnap 
of “Sandy Claws” to the deceiving scary Christmas presents. Don’t 
let the dark mischievousness of the characters fool you, though; this 
musical is a kid-friendly adventure that contains soft humor and 
upbeat jingles. So don’t forget to tune in to Netflix Feb. 1 to find out 
how the Pumpkin King saves Christmas in Halloween Town.
—   Rachel novotny
Senior Staff Writergoing  (  Feb. 1 )
There Will Be Blood  
Slurp yourself up a milkshake and celebrate the 10th anniversary of Paul Thomas Anderson’s 
overwhelming anti-capitalist thriller. “There Will Be Blood” is a rags-to-riches story of a 
hard-working oil prospector, Daniel Plainview, who makes it big but wants to make it even 
bigger — hence the viciousness of capitalism. After staking a claim on a small family farm, 
which sits atop a rich oil deposit, Plainview drags us through a mud-ridden path toward 
economic, environmental and psychological destruction, one all too familiar and immediate 
for today’s audience.
Daniel Day Lewis, as Plainview, delivers an historic performance, in both his exacting 
evocation of an era past and his cementation among the ranks of acting royalty. His opposite 
for much of the film, Paul Dano, portraying an equally greedy evangelical nut, is nearly as 
compelling to witness, particularly in a scene at his church, where he physically banishes a 
senior woman’s arthritis. Under the direction of the gifted Anderson, “There Will Be Blood” 
is a rare consensus masterpiece, with few detractors, that stands at the very top of the past 
decade’s cinema. 
— Jacky To  
Senior Staff Writer10                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  3 0 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Sustainable Fashion: Taking it Slow           
by Annika Olives/ /Lifestyle Staff Writer
“Fast fashion” is a term the fashion industry has dubbed the manufacturing of large amounts of clothing for incredibly low prices. While everyone 
loves a good deal, it’ s important to note what impact these companies practicing fast fasion have on their workers. In 2013, the Bangladesh factory 
collapse that killed over a thousand people brought to light the extremely unsafe working conditions that contribute to making that five-dollar shirt. 
Fabrics used in fast fashion are also cheap and easily torn, making them more likely to end up in the landfill, taking years and years to biodegrade. 
As college students on small budgets, it may seem like there’ s not much we can do to combat this problem since sustainable brands tend to be pretty 
expensive, but here are a few options to slow down fashion that you and your bank account can both enjoy. 
ASOS Eco Edit / $–$$
ASOS is an online store based in Britain with thousands of options for both men’s and women’s clothing, and the “Eco Edit” part of the website 
selects clothing, either by ASOS or by brands that ASOS supports, that meet ASOS’ level of sustainability. This is by far one of the most affordable 
places to purchase sustainable clothing, especially if you want more basic pieces. 
Etsy / $–$$$
If you’re looking for something that’s one-of-a-kind, try Etsy. Launched in 2005, this online marketplace has been a haven for artisans and craft 
makers to sell their products to the world. By assuring everything is made ethically and sustainably, Etsy hopes to lead the world into supporting the 
people-powered economy. 
Patagonia / $$
Instead of shopping for outerwear by North Face or Columbia, give Patagonia a shot. Famous for its colorful pullovers 
and down jackets, the brand uses combinations of natural and recycled fabrics to create pieces that 
will keep you warm, no matter where adventures take you. The company donates one percent of its 
sales every year to small groups advocating the preservation of the environment and also encourages 
passing down pieces by increasing the longevity of garments with sets of fix-it guides on its website 
and repair trucks that drive all over the country. 
Secondhand Clothing Options / $–$$
We’ve all been victim of losing a receipt before you can return something. ThredUp, an online 
thrift store, fixes this problem by buying back gently-worn clothes to resell on its website for 
reasonable prices. Goodwill and the like are often very hit-or-miss, but if you have a few hours and 
prefer shopping in person, hit the thrift stores with some friends and see if you can find some new 
treasures. UCSD students also sell clothes and other items on Facebook pages, and there’s even 
one specifically for women’s clothes. Whichever way you choose, you contribute to the collective 
recycling of the world’s products. Sustainability:                         
Doing Good for Green 
   by Brittney Lu/ /Lifestyle Editor
Muppet legend has it that “it’s not easy being green. ” If you’re Kermit, 
then maybe it’s easy, but we’ d like to beg to differ. Arguably, America is one 
of the most technologically-advanced nations, but even this operates on a 
double-edged sword. While new gadgets and gizmos are coming out at a 
Ford-esque, assembly-line record pace, we have adopted a “technological 
hubris” that prohibits us from thinking and planning ahead, relying on 
our capacity to just invent something new to tackle an oncoming, usually 
preventable, problem. 
Couple our overestimated confidence with a sociopolitical culture that 
undermines a global problem in climate change, and we’ve become a nation 
that is one of the biggest contributors to a world warming at an extent we can 
no longer sustainably maintain. A few degrees may not make that much of a 
difference when it comes to heating up a Hot Pocket, but on a global stance, 
a few degrees can transform citizens into displaced climate refugees, habitats 
into unusable wastelands. 
So what does a global problem, existing in places beyond our local 
proximity, have to do with us? In San Diego, a few rising degrees translate into 
sea-level rises, threatening homes and disrupting ecosystems. Those Sunset 
Cliffs you love so much? At our current rates of consumption, bluff erosion is 
a reality with consequences more imminent than we want to internalize. Top 
that off with the harrowing fact that these effects disproportionately threaten 
low-income communities, and I would hope something is triggering your 
inner tree-hugger. 
Individually, it’s hard to imagine just turning off the sink or catching 
a ride with the MTS will make an impact. But solutions have to start 
somewhere, no matter how incremental or insignificant at surface level. We 
might have the intellectual capacity to “fix” this global problem, but let’s take 
a preventative approach shall we? Educate yourself, find solutions that adapt 
to current concerns and be innovative now, not later. Y ou might realize that 
being eco-friendly is not a radical lifestyle change, but an accumulation of 
small steps over time that can dramatically change the way we see the green 
around us.
illustration by April Gau// UCSD Guardianillustration by Leanne Chen// UCSD Guardian
LIFESTYLE                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  3 0 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
It’s Not Easy 
Being Green    
 
by Jocelyn Yang & Tara Nejad/ /Staff Writers
We know it’s hard. But, hey, don’t worry! One of the best 
things about the UCSD Guardian is that we provide for our 
readers. Being green requires a lot of effort, so we made daily 
sustainability easier for you.
tDon’t brush your teeth in the shower; you’ll end up 
wasting more water standing under the shower head. 
tActually, don’t brush your teeth at all. This will save 
five gallons of water a day. 
tIn fact, forget the shower too. That’s another 120 
gallons per hour of shower.
tIf you do shower, pee in the shower. Another three 
gallons.
tIf you’re not a pee-in-the-shower fan, then flush only 
when the water level reaches half an inch below the 
rim of the bowl. Y ou know what they say: “If it’s brown, 
let it drown. ”
tBring your own thermoses to college markets for 
morning coffee — you’ll even get a discount.
tSay “yes” to that brown paper bag only if you really 
need it or will be reusing it multiple times. A good 
alternative to carrying your groceries in paper bags is 
your backpack. Or your arms. Y ou’ll get a discount for 
that, too. 
tAt dining halls, grab only as many napkins as you 
need. We all know you aren’t going to use that entire 
three-inch stack of paper.
tReuse tissues. If you lay them out to dry in the 
daytime, you’ll be able to use them by dinnertime.
tWash your clothes in the rain. Forecast shows optimal 
conditions for sky water — and for saving 40 gallons of 
water and 500 watts of energy for the rest of this week. 
tSkip the toilet paper. Air dry. 
tDon’t bother making lunch. Forget the stove, the 
microwave and the conventional oven; instead, 
consider sifting through the food waste bin at dining 
halls. Y ou’ll be surprised by all the food waste treasures 
— and the wrongly trashed recyclables — you’ll find!
tShare floss with your roommates. Depending on 
variations of personal hygiene, one box could last you 
a whole year.
tInvest in hamsters to generate electricity from their 
wheels. 
tPull a Bear Grylls: Drink your own pee. The California 
drought needs all the help it can get. 
tPurchase a warehouse-sized bag of salt to cure your 
meats. A typical 25-pounder can save you 36,000 watts 
worth of refrigerator use on your electricity bill. 
tLick your plates and silverware clean to save 10 gallons 
of water and 1,800 watts of energy per wash.
tSave electricity; sleep all day. 
illustration by Irene Luu// UCSD Guardian
12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
HOURS
/tritonfoodpantry
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
OTHER DATESOTHER DATES
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PM
FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!
FEB 6, MAR 17FEB 2Paint the Campus Green 
Compiled by Lifestyle Writers 
Read on to see what tips and tricks Lifestyle has to cultivate a sustainable daily pattern! Have 
ideas? Email us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org! 
tIntegrity doesn’t stop in the academic setting. See a plastic water bottle on the ground? 
UC San Diego has those solar-powered recycling bins for a reason. So it might not be 
your waste, but the collective campus is our treasure.
tGet involved with the Student Sustainability Collective or The Zone to learn more 
about transforming our daily habits and campus. 
tThis might not be everyone’s favorite way to participate, but taking classes to 
understand what’s going on in our world is a foundational step toward being a part of 
the new sustainability movement. If you have the time, or need some credits, enroll 
in an environmental science course or urban studies class about sustainable living.
tThough plastic utensils may be more convenient, opt for reusable plates and cups 
when eating at dining halls. 
tAre your coffee habits breaking the bank? Try bringing your own mug to Perks, 
campus markets or other cafes. Most places will offer you a small discount, and you 
get to cut down on waste too. 
tNot everything has to be lit. Turn off the light when you leave your dorm.
tDon’t be like Cady and convert to the Plastics. Invest in a reusable water bottle, and 
take advantage of the hydration stations.
tThey may only be 10 cents extra at Ralphs, but those plastic bags don’t have the 
capacity to biodegrade. Pick up a few eco-friendly bags, and leave them in your 
backpack or car so they’re always ready to go. 
tHave a meeting with your suitemates to see how, together, you can all do your part to 
create a greener living space.
tRaise those green thumbs and check out a community garden. Ellie’s Garden in 
Eleanor Roosevelt College offers spaces to grow some sprouts or pick up some 
in-season greens — for free!
tCarpool or take the bus, and remember, walking is a privilege, so do what you can to 
reduce our ecological footprint. How to Live Your   
Life, as told by   
an ESYS Major         
by Nadia Link/ /Contributing Writer
So you’re interested in becoming healthier or more “green” or something along those 
lines. Where do you start? Recycle more? Start going to the gym? Maybe even try to eat 
“healthier”? While those are all great starts, I can say from personal experience, such 
general goals don’t get you far.  
In the past, I have tried every variety of changing my life to live healthier or be more 
“green. ” Ultimately, I failed, because I didn’t really think about the change itself, and 
I didn’t take it one step at a time. It wasn’t until I started seriously thinking about the 
small, unsustainable and unhealthy habits I do every day that I was actually able to shift 
my daily routine to being better for my body and the environment. It is my hope that I 
can share what I did, as well as what I will continue to do.  
For starters, instead of making any massive and generic changes, I did one small, 
barely noticeable change each week. Over time, they added up, and I am pretty damn 
happy with where I am today. I feel healthier, more energetic and less wasteful. As 
you might be able to guess, most of the adjustments I made were related to diet. No, 
I didn’t go vegan or start doing maple syrup cleanses or anything like that: I like food 
way too much for that trendy stuff. Instead, I started cooking more, buying ingredients 
instead of prepackaged foods. I also chose to walk more and carry a water bottle daily 
— changes like that.  Truth be told, I have always been a bit more conscientious about 
the environment (it is literally my major), so I was pretty enthusiastic about becoming 
healthier and green without doing anything anyone else would find difficult.  
So without rambling much further, I am starting this weekly piece to give insight on 
easy ways you can become healthier and reduce your impact on the environment, while 
simultaneously explaining the actual benefits with real numbers and science. Y ou know 
what? I’ll just go ahead and tell you exactly what I’m planning to write about next week: 
cooking. Specifically what to cook, how to cook it and how it helps financially, mentally 
and physically. Hope to catch you next week.
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
TANER HALICIOGLU
ATKINSON HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 30 - FEB 52017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 1.30 WED2.01TUESDAY 1.31  • 8pm
THU2.02
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE1.31
4pm
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - GREAT 
HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of the 
world in which we live. The Global Forum is a 
program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through 
speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
THE STUDENT EXPERIENCE & 
ACTIVISM ON CAMPUS - SEUSS 
ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
UC San Diego has a rich history of student 
activism. From the universit’s beginning, 
moments of crisis have been met by student-led 
transformative action. Join us for a panel 
discussion with staff, faculty, and alumni who 
have been on the front lines of change at UC San 
Diego. The panelists will include: Fnann Keflezighi 
(UCSD Thurgood Marshall College), Angela Kong 
(UCSD OASIS), Jorge Mariscal (UCSD Literature), 
AgustÃn Orozco (UCSD OASIS), and Danny Widener 
(UCSD History).The event will include a reception 
and time to view the exhibit. This free event is 
open to the public. Contact: tlrhodes@ucsd.edu
6pm
UCSD MEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS. 
PRINCETON - RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Men's Volleyball
team as they take on Princeton.
6:30pm
TEA & PAINT NIGHT - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Feeling artsy? Come join The Zone to paint your 
own masterpiece while sipping on delicious tea, 
snacking on healthy food, and enjoying time with 
good company! This event is first come, first 
served. Arrive early as this program gets full 
quickly.
7pm
REED FAMILY CONCERT - BOULEZ: 
REPONS - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Steven Schick will conduct the second annual 
Reed Family Concert, featuring musicians from 
the Renga and Palimpsest ensembles and 
including a performance of Pierre Boulez's Repons 
(1981-84). This presentation of Repons will 
include solos by Distinguished Professor Aleck 
Karis (piano), Nicholas Tolle (cimbalom), graduate 
student Kyle Adam Blair (piano), graduate 
student Fiona Digney (xylophone and 
glockenspiel), Julie Smith Phillips (harp) and 
graduate student James Beauton (vibraphone). 
The performance will also feature technical 
integration led by Professor Miller Puckette and 
sound design by Professor Shahrokh Yadegari. 
The evening's program will include: Octandre by 
Edgard Varese, A new work by graduate student 
Anahita Abbasi, Repons by Pierre Boulez. Tickets: 
GA: $15.50, faculty/staff/alumni: $10.50, 
students: Free. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu10am
OGA ZONE: VINYASA - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
An invigorating and dynamic style of yoga in 
which breath and movement are linked in a 
flowing sequence to create heat, flexibility, 
strength, and awareness. Originating from the 
practice of Ashtanga, this style is also referred to 
as flow yoga or vinyasa flow. Led by FitLife 
instructor Rachel, this free program is on first 
come, first serve basis. Blocks and yoga mats 
provided.
12pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY: HOW TO FILE 
YOUR FAFSA - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Learn how to fill out your FAFSA! Hosted by the 
Financial Aid & Scholarships Office. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: 
COUSCOUS SALAD - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Come join us as we make healthy recipes, hosted 
by various guests and get FREE samples! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: DECORATIVE TILES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Tile your way to success with these decorative 
tiles! Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
WHAT'S YOUR FILTER? 
DEVELOPING YOUR 
PROFESSIONAL LENS - PC WEST - 
RED SHOE ROOM
This workshop will explore strategies to develop 
a more positive personal and professional brand. 
Students will learn to be more aware of the 
content they post, repost, share, and like. 
Presented by Christian Medero, Office & Project 
Coordinator, Center for Student Involvement; and 
Diana Figueroa, Graduate Assistant, Center for 
Student Involvement. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
YOUABROAD STUDY ABROAD 
SERIES PRESENTS: 
BLACKABROAD - BLACK 
RESOURCE CENTER
An interactive Conversation about Black 
experiences abroad. Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
5pm
EVENING WITH AN 
ENTREPRENEUR: TANER 
HALICIOGLU - ATKINSON HALL
Taner Halicioglu earned his bachelor’s degree in 
computer science from UC San Diego in 1996. He 
went on to work for such companies as Cisco 
Systems, Loudcloud and eBay before he landed 
at Facebook in October 2004, less than a year 
after the company was founded. Halicioglu was 
among Facebook’s first 20 employees. As a 
software engineer and operations officer, he 
developed the hardware infrastructure that 
enabled the social network’s explosive growth. 
The company now has about 1.5 billion active 
users worldwide. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
NEXT STEPS 1: MOVING FROM 
ALLYSHIHP TO ACTION - BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST
In this workshop we will explore the notion of 
allyship and gain a deeper understanding of how 
one’s identities influence the ally continuum. 
Together we will take a critical look at the role we 
play in perpetuating and breaking the cycle of 
oppression. Using this insight, students will then 
be exposed to the Critical Liberation Theory and 
reflect on how action creates change. Presented 
by Katy Brecht, Program Coordinator, Center for 
Student Involvement. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES AT INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE - INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
Want to study abroad? Interested in sharing your 
language skills with others? Then come to LCT! 
The Language Conversation Tables are one of 
International House's most popular programs. 
Each quarter, students host a variety of 
languages for UC San Diego students, staff, 
faculty, and community members to learn and 
practice another language in a fun and casual 
environment. Language Conversation Tables are 
especially important for students who wish to 
study abroad or simply improve their language 
skills at UCSD! LCTs meet every Thursday at 6pm 
either in the Great Hall or the Asante classrooms! 
Register here: http://tinyurl.com/LCTWinter2017  
Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.eduFRI2.03EVENING WITH AN ENTREPRENEUR:
8pm
THE FIRST MOVIE AT ARTPOWER - 
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
UCSD Student Food + Movie: $29; UCSD Student 
Movie Only: Free The First Movie is a tribute to 
the imaginative resilience of children. When 
filmmaker Mark Cousins traveled to Goptapa, a 
small Kurdish village in Northern Iraq 
devastated by Saddam Hussein ’s regime, he 
discovered children who have known nothing but 
war. The children were given camcorders and 
they created their own movies filled with wonder 
and boundless imagination. The resulting films 
are the true gift of The First Movie. Get a glimpse 
of a different Iraq and the world through the 
transformative lens of a child ’s eyes. FREE 
FOOD! Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. ____ jockey
5. Gentle
9. Proclamation
14. Met solo
15. Levin and Gershwin
16. Piggy bank user
17. Citrus fruit
19. Look happy
20. Los ____, California
21. Painters’ stands
22. In the best-case scenario
25. Mayday!
26. Author ____ Asimov
30. Diamond and Armstrong
31. Synagogue figure
32. Future fish
33. Small nail
37. Small bay
38. ____ voyage!
39. Box
40. Poppy or sesame
41. Cooking fuel
42. Slugger Hank ____
43. Work
45. Foe
46. Eminem’s milieu
49. Egg dishes
51. Go by
53. Horse breed
58. Forbidden items (hyph.)
59. Acceptance of others
61. The ones here
62. Starting bet
63. Summer treats
64. Shoppers’ delights
65. Male children
66. BoysDown
1. Computer info
2. Persia, today
3. Warble
4. Enclosure
5. Fatigued
6. Gotten up
7. Grown boy
8. Compass point (abbr.)
9. Compositions
10. Beaver projects
11. Climbing plants
12. Violin’s kin
13. Lock of hair
18. Draw out
21. She (Fr.)
23. Hairspray type
24. Roaring feline
26. Purple flower
27. Rational
28. Talented
29. Not up yet
33. Dietary fiber
34. Hard to find
35. Potent particle
36. Refuse
38. Infant
39. ____ Salad
41. Amusement
43. Defeats
44. House-selling business
46. Leases
47. Oahu greeting
48. Wall board
50. Orchard members
52. Stance
54. Scoop water
55. Andes native
56. Passed effortlessly
57. Famous loch
59. Typewriter key
60. Yoko ____ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condition. 
They come with a pelican case and ballast. 
They all have bulbs and some lighting 
accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
PETS
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 
- Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the 
limitation of two pets, therefore, I have to 
rehome two little creamy kittens. One is 
a girl (Pic3)and the other is a boy(Pic 1). 
They are playful, intelligent, and friendly. 
The boy has two levels of hair (dark and 
light creamy) and he likes to eat. The girl is 
sooo energetic, her eyes are bright! No ve. 
Listing ID: 310088197 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - 
Pug Puppies for sale, we accept all Major 
credit cards thru PayPal if you prefer to use 
your credit card, or we can accept cash, 
totally up to you, below we have written an 
individual Bio of each available puppy to help you get acquainted with each puppy. 
Meeka is a beautiful Sable Silver Fawn, she 
is an absolute sweetheart, she is best bud -
dies. Listing ID: 310088070 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - 
$1300 - Houston is a Chocolate & White 
Teddy Bear male.This Adorable boy has his 
current shots and vet checks and will weigh 
around 9-13lbs. Houston will follow you 
everywhere you go. He comes with a 1 Year 
Health Guarantee and you can find him in 
San Diego,CA. 619-786-7362 or http://www.
puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 310087920 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
VACATION
0 bedroom Pacific Beach - $4000. Minutes 
to the beach. Easy access to freeway and 
downtown. Sit down bay view from dining 
table. Watch fireworks from living room or 
off deck. Very private deluxe accommoda -
tions. Listing ID: 310319955 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2 bedroom Sorrento Valley - $2850. 
Charming 1st floor end south facing unit. 
Enjoy plenty of sunshine on a tranquil 
private lake, pool and jacuzzi. Koi filled 
streams and waterfalls meander through -
out the property grounds. Tennis courts, 
and Saunal on the property. 5 minutes 
on local street to Torrey Pines State Beach 
and Reserve. Very tastefully decorated with 
antiques and an Asian flare. Tiffany lamps, 
new King size bed in the Master, new refrig -
erator, Internet and phone service. Close to 
downtown Del Mar, shops, restaurants. 20 
minutes from downtown San Diego and 
the Airport. Close to Carmel Valley Business 
District. Unlike any other complex in the 
area. Listing ID: 310319940 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 bedroom Pacific Beach - $3950. The Beach 
House on Venice Court is a fully furnished 3 
bedroom/2 bathroom house in an amazing 
location! Just steps from the ocean and 
walking distance to Pacific Beach stores and restaurants. Looking for medium to lon -
ger term rentals $3950/month. Also open 
to shorter term rentals if space is avail -
able. Newly renovated with fully equipped 
kitchen including fridge/freezer, dishwash -
er, microwave, oven, coffee maker, toaster 
oven, blender, silverware, plates, glasses, 
and cookware. Unit also has washer/dryer, 
Big Screen HD TV on main, and TVs in 
all bedrooms. Parking for 2 vehicles and 
private patio with BBQ and furniture. No 
smoking. Small pets will be considered. 
Close to USD, UCSD, Pacific Beach, La Jolla, 
Pt Loma, downtown (Gaslamp, Little Italy, 
East Village). Great central location and 
easily accessible given its proximity to free -
ways. Listing ID: 309519712 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Level: 1234SUDOKU
GROUNDHOG DAY
FEBRARY 2
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Coming off of its first win 
of the season last week, the 
UC San Diego men’s volleyball 
team rode that momentum to 
secure its second win against 
Hope International University at 
home on Jan. 28. The Royals 
put up a good fight, as it took 
five sets for the Tritons to win. 
The final scores in in this non-
conference match were 25–23 
(Royals), 15–25 (Tritons), 25–20 
(Royals), 22–25 (Tritons) and 
14–16 (Tritons). UCSD is now 
2–5 overall while the Royals 
dropped to 4–4. 
The first set was neck-and-
neck for the most part, as the 
lead changed several times 
throughout the set. The Tritons 
were leading 23–19, but a couple 
of attack errors by the Tritons 
and kills from the Royals put 
the final score at 23–25. The 
second match did not have the 
same back-and-forth style as the 
first match as the Tritons never 
allowed the Royals to take the 
lead. The Tritons also played 
more aggressively, serving up 13 
kills in this set to win 25–15. The 
third and fourth sets were played 
similarly to the first set, with 
solid defense accompanied by 
several lead changes from both teams. Hope International took 
the third set 25–20, while the 
Tritons won the fourth set 25–22, 
making a tie-breaking fifth set 
necessary. 
In the fifth, most exciting 
match, the Tritons sealed their 
victory with a kill by junior sideout 
Tanner Syftestad. However, that 
match was not so easily won. It 
really was anyone’s game, as both 
teams took advantage of their 
opponents’ attack errors and 
made some kills to try to propel 
their team to the win. Ultimately, 
the Tritons barely edged out their 
competition to win 16–14. 
It proved to be a memorable 
22nd birthday for Syftestad, as 
he had a career-high 31 kills, just 
two shy of earning the Mountain 
Pacific Sports Federation game-
high record, which is held by 
USC’s Lucas Yoder. Additionally, 
junior setter Milosh Stojcic went 
past the 50 assist milestone, 
finishing the game with 56, a 
personal record. This was also 
the best game of the season for 
the Tritons in terms of hitting, 
as they went 64–25–132 (0.295). 
The Tritons will host 
Princeton University in another 
non-conference match this 
Wednesday, Feb. 1 at 6 p.m.Tritons Secure Second Win of  
Season at Home Against HIU
In a non-conference match, the Tritons edged out 
the Hope International University Royals in five 
sets, improving their losing record to 2–5. MEN'S VOLLEYBALL
BY  R O S I N A  G A R C I A
SPORTS EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA  rmg008@ucsd.eduThe UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team hasn’t known anything 
but winning lately, and it wasn’t about 
to let that change in its road games 
against Stanislaus State and Chico State. 
Despite some rough stretches, the Tritons 
eventually came out with solid victories 
over their California Collegiate Athletic 
Association rivals and improved to 16–3 
overall and 12–1 in conference.
Game v.s Stanislaus State
The team came out in stride on 
Friday night, blowing down the doors 
with an 8–0 scoring run to start the 
game. By the end of the quarter, the team 
had pushed the lead to double digits, 
something it would continually build 
upon until the fourth quarter.
For a majority of the next two 
quarters, the Tritons maintained their 
double digit lead over the Warriors, 
peaking at 20 points in the beginning of the third quarter. But soon afterward, 
the team found itself quickly tumbling 
down that slope via back-to-back three-
pointers by the Warriors’ freshman 
forward Lizzy Alexander, cutting the lead 
to just 14. Just minutes into the fourth, 
the Triton lead was just seven. 
The Tritons weren’t about to let their 
win streak be snapped by a 20-point 
collapse, however. Senior guard Beth 
Mounier led the team with seven points 
in the fourth quarter to help push the 
lead back into double digits, preventing 
any chance of an upset. The Tritons won 
their 11th straight game 68–55.
Game vs. Chico State
Although UCSD wound up 
demolishing the Wildcats by the end 
of the game, the opening quarters 
were a neck-and-neck affair. Marked 
by multiple tie scores, the Tritons had 
trouble holding off Chico State for much 
of the first half.
With the start of the third quarter, the Tritons pushed the lead up to 10 off of a 
three-pointer by junior guard Paige Song, 
but the Wildcats cut the deficit to just 
one within five minutes. With 3:31 left 
in the third quarter, the Wildcats took a 
one-point lead, but that was all they were 
going to get. The team would close out 
the game on an incredible 29–8, led by 
Mounier, who scored 10 fourth-quarter 
points and outscored the entire Chico 
State team in the process.
“We made some big plays early 
and had several different players step 
up and contribute, ” UCSD head coach 
Heidi VanDerveer told the Athletics 
Department. “Our defense really kicked 
into gear in the second half and we were 
able to end the game on a great run. ”
Next up, the Tritons host Cal State 
Monterey Bay for Spirit Night on Friday, 
Feb. 3 at 5:30 p.m.Tritons Win Two on the Road, Extend Win Streak 
UC San Diego defeated conference rivals to remain in first place in the CCAA. WOMAN'S BASKETBALL
ALEX WU  adw006@ucsd,eduReaders can contactBY  A L E X  W U
ASSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
MEN'S BASKETBALL
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team endured 
some highs and lows this 
weekend as it took on Stanislaus 
State on Friday, then traveled to 
Chico to take on Chico State on 
Saturday. Despite getting back to 
winning ways with a comfortable 
72–54 victory against the Warriors, 
UCSD fell down to second place in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association after a tough 64–69 
defeat in Chico. UCSD now stand 
with a 15–5 overall record and 10–3 
in conference play.
Game vs. Stanislaus State
Coming into the matchup, the 
Tritons were on a two-game losing 
streak and what a better way to get 
back on track than a win on the 
road? The Tritons looked like they 
would never be on the wrong side of an upset as they led comfortably for 
a majority of the game.  
Senior guard Adam Klie led 
the way for the Tritons, as he has 
done countless times throughout 
the season, with 20 points including 
seven rebounds and seven assists. 
Teammates, junior guard George 
Buaku (12) and sophomore guard 
and forward Christian Oshita (10) 
also added double-figure point 
totals along with a combined total 
of six three-pointers.
UCSD shot 46 percent (27–58) 
from the field, while also doing 
a solid job on the defensive end, 
forcing Stanislaus State into 14 
turnovers. When defense turns 
into offense, creating easy baskets 
happens regularly and the Tritons 
did just that with 16 points off 
turnovers.  Game vs. Chico State
With the first-place spot at stake 
on Saturday night, the two teams 
had that much more to fight for. 
Unfortunately, the Tritons could not 
hold on to their first place spot as 
they fell to defeat 69–64. 
The game seemed to be going 
the Tritons’ way in the first half 
as they got up to a 15-point lead 
after shooting 58 (18–31) percent 
from the field in the half. Although, 
their streaky shooting came to a 
complete halt in the second half as 
they shot the ball 20 percent (5–25), 
drastically different from the first 
half. Simply, nothing would fall for 
the Tritons in the second half and 
as a result, were outscored 40–22 in 
the half.  
Even with a poor shooting 
display in the second half, somehow, the Tritons were still in the game 
late on with less than three minutes 
remaining, only down by a mere 
point, 61–60. However, Chico State 
was able to make a couple more 
plays in the last minutes of the game 
to earn a well-fought victory. 
Individually, Klie had it going on 
the night with a game-high 24 points 
off of 8-for-16 shooting including 
five rebounds, three assists and two 
steals. Oshita scored 16 points and 
seven rebounds.  
At the end of the game, UCSD 
head coach Eric Olen expressed his 
thoughts on the game, telling the 
Athletics Department, “We played 
really well early, but Chico made 
more plays down the stretch. ” 
Sometimes that is all it comes 
down to, who makes plays at the 
crucial points of the game and unfortunately, the Tritons did not 
have the best of second half ’s on 
the night and paid the price. They 
will look at tapes and improve what 
needs to be improved and move on 
like any great team does.
After the two-game stint on the 
road, the Tritons will be back at 
RIMAC Arena for a pair of games 
where they will battle it out versus 
Cal State Monterey Bay on Friday, 
Feb. 3, for Spirit Night. Then on 
Saturday, Feb. 4, the Tritons will host 
Cal State East Bay. The Tritons beat 
both teams in their first meetings 
of the season and will look to take 
the season series against both this 
week. Both games are set for a 7:30 
p.m. tip off. 
Tritons 
Split Two 
on the 
Road 
With the weekend’s loss, 
the Tritons moved down to 
second place in the CCAA. 
by Daniel Hernandez// Senior Staff WriterPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
daniel hernandez dah043@ucsd.edu
Regardless of the competition 
this season, UC San Diego women’s 
swimming and diving team 
dominated. No. 6 in the nation, the 
team is on a five-meet win streak, 
and their latest victim were the USD 
Toreros. 
There’s nothing like a little cross-
city rivalry, but UCSD dispatched of 
University of San Diego fairly easily, 
winning 14 of 16 events on the day 
and defeating the Toreros 197–96. 
UCSD is now 7–2 on the season and 
dropped its opponents of the day 
to 2–7. The Tritons are unbeaten 
against USD in five straight meets 
and sport a 14–1–1 record when 
matched up against them in the past 
16 meetings. 
At home, the Tritons dominated 
the diving competition. Sophomore Brooke Abrantes won both the one-
meter and the three-meters events. 
She scored two NCAA qualifiers, 
among them a personal best on the 
one meter. 
Freshman Alayna Gocke had a 
coming out party on the day, with 
personal records in the 200 freestyle 
(1:52.74) and 500 free (5:03.73), 
both wins for UCSD. In their final 
home meet, seniors Natalie Tang 
and Jaimie Bryan won the two 
sprints and the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke races, respectively. All-
American junior Julia Toronczak 
won the 100 backstroke in 57.79 and 
the 200 in a season-best of 2:01.38. 
Two more Tritons won their event, 
with freshman Casey Brotherton 
taking the 1000 free and freshman 
Anissa Barroso dominating the 200 
individual medley.
The Tritons also took home the 
relay races. In the 200 medley, Tang, 
junior Angie Phetbenjakul, junior 
Jayna Wittenbrink and junior Haley Murphy took first place in 1:47.00. 
Toronczak, Phetbenjakul, freshman 
Amanda Rios and junior Sarah Yao 
took home the 400 free relay in 
(3:33.99). USD won the 100 and 200 
butterfly races.
UCSD had six 1–2–3 finishes, in 
the 1000, 100 back, 200 back, 200 
breast and in both diving events.
On the day, the Tritons also 
had eight NCAA consideration 
qualifiers. Brotherton in the 1000, 
Bryan and Gocke in their respective wins, Toronczak in the 200 back and 
Phetbenjakul in the two breaststroke 
events she placed second in.
UCSD is now done with the 
regular season and turns to the 2017 
Pacific Collegiate Swimming and 
Diving Conference Championships 
as eight-time defending champions, 
which will be held Feb. 8–11 in 
Monterey Park.SWIM & DIVE
Tritons End 
Regular 
Season at 
Home with a 
Win
Crosstown rival University 
of San Diego unable to keep 
up with No. 6 Tritons.
BY  M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e r
Managing editor
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
M. Volleyball 
M. Tennis
W. Basketball
M. Basketball6 PM
5:30 PM
1 PM
5:30
7:30 PM1/31
2/1
2/3
2/3
2/3VS Biola
VS Princeton
AT  UC Irvine
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS CSU Monterey Bay