VOLUME 51, ISSUE 9  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 27, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
HUMANS OF 
UCSD
The Humans of UCSD Facebook 
page elicits more than just a 
scroll through your noti fications 
bar. It provides a pathway 
to meeting people, and more 
importantly, knowing the 
strangers that make up our vast 
student body.
FOOD  INSECURITY 
BEHIND THE CURTAINUCSD  budget surplus
interview  w/  mario  barricelliOPINION,  Page   4
A&E,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The nonprofit sector needs 
to quantitatively approach 
all aspects of its day-to-day 
operations by researching 
which modes of fundraising 
it will use, implementing 
programs with the highest 
reach and success rates 
and regularly re-evaluating 
its latest approach to 
philanthropy.”
- SUZANNE GOLSHANARA
ECONOMIZE  IT
OPINION, PAGE 5Features,   PAGE   6
MONDAY
H 19 L 12
WEDNESDAY
H 27 L 15
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
University of California 
President Janet Napolitano has been 
admonished by the UC Regents at 
their last meeting for allowing her 
top aides to interfere in a state audit, making surveys of the UC Office of the President less critical. 
State Auditor Elaine Howle 
publicly denounced Napolitano and announced she believed her 
offices mishandled the surveys, thus 
leading the regents to commence a full-fledged investigation, which was led by State Supreme Court Justice Carlos Moreno and the Huesten 
Hennigan Law Firm. The criticism 
received by Napolitano followed the conclusion of the investigation, which found that the UC president 
had given the green light to her 
chief-of-staff, Seth Grossman, and her deputy chief-of-staff Bernie 
Jones, to repress responses from 
the confidential surveys regarding operations in the UCOP on order to make them less critical before being returned back to Howle. 
The UC Regents met for nearly 
five hours discussing possible disciplinary actions to be taken against the UC President along with UC Regents 
Makes Decision on UCSD ConstructionCAMPUS
Chancellor Khosla sought to 
approve a $118 million budget 
from the UC Board of Regents.
The UC Board of Regents 
approved three major 
developments for the San Diego 
campus last week during a Finance 
and Capital Strategies Committee meeting in San Francisco on Nov. 15. UCSD Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla attended, as well as Vice 
Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer Pierre Ouillet and Campus Architect Joel King.
The first item that was approved 
was the budget for the Ridge Walk Academic Complex, which would function as a new building for both arts and humanities as well as social 
sciences. In the past five years 
about 30 faculty members have been hired for the departments, but no additional space has been added to the campus to accommodate this 
personnel increase. 
In July, the Regents endorsed 
the project for funding. During 
last week’s meeting, Khosla sought the approval of a budget of over $118 million, about $68 million 
in external financing and about 
$50 million general funds from the state. In March of 2018, the design’s environmental impact will be reviewed, in accordance with 
California Environmental Quality 
Act regulations.
The next two items that 
were approved were designs for 
redevelopment in the Mesa Nueva 
graduate student housing project. Khosla cited a growing student body as well as an increasing demand for campus housing. 
“In a locality where the housing 
prices are going up eight to 12 percent a year … I am convinced that it is in our interest and our 
responsibility to really try to 
become as much of a residential campus as we possibly can with a promise to the students of rental values that are below market,” 
Khosla told the Regents.
The projects would be an 
extension of Mesa Neuvo and 
would redevelop low-density 
buildings in East Campus to 
accommodate more graduate and professional students. Six existing apartment buildings would be demolished. The goal is to build 
housing complexes that allow for 
more units in the space.
One of the Regents questioned 
whether the redevelopment would 
be more effective in reducing costs 
per foot, so the UC San Diego A dead body was found in the waters by 
Pacific Beach in La Jolla after another man was pulled from the ocean in the same 
vicinity. Both men were allegedly participants in a Mexican human smuggling attempt on Saturday, Nov. 18.
Human smuggling is the “illegal entry of a 
person across an international border” under the person’s own will, in the hopes of gaining some benefit. 
According to an article by NBC 7 San Diego, 
La Jolla resident Phoenix Coberley found the man in the water around 11 p.m. on Saturday when she “could hear a man screaming out of her window” in her home.  
Coberley called for lifeguards who pulled 
the 32-year-old Mexican national out of the water. Shortly afterward, the policemen and an ambulance arrived. A Channel 7 report noted 
that the man “told [lifeguards] there were still five 
other people in the ocean on boogie boards” who had also jumped off the boat. He was “one of six immigrants” who had allegedly attempted to cross the American-Mexican border via boat in a case of 
human smuggling.
“It is believed that they were told to swim to 
shore [by the driver], ” Border Patrol Agent Tekae 
Michael told ABC 10 News. 
“The San Diego Police Department, U.S. Border 
Patrol, and U.S. Coast Guard were notified, ” San Diego Fire-Rescue Department spokeswoman told The San Diego Union-Tribune.
The 32-year-old Mexican was taken to the 
hospital due to hypothermia.
Just a few hours after the man was pulled from 
the water, lifeguards found a lifeless body in the water at 1 a.m. on Sunday, Nov. 19. As stated in The San Diego Union-Tribune, Michael confirms that 
“he was pronounced dead at the scene. ”
Despite the discovery of these two bodies, 
investigators were unable to find the boat itself or 
the remaining members.
“It is believed that the driver of the boat did 
return back to Mexico, ” Michael said.
The San Diego Coast Guard sent a helicopter 
Saturday night and a rescue boat on Sunday 
morning in search of the other members. However, 
according to a report by ABC 10 News, “lifeguards determined that the other people swam ashore and disappeared. ”
Treasurer of the UCSD College Republicans 
Travis Gilbert is concerned about the effectiveness of immigration policies in regard to the safety of the immigrants and proper border control. He sees the “loss of human life” as “tragic, ” but also 
recognizes that “the incident comes from a distinct 
issue in overall immigration policy. ”
Gilbert believes that “the U.S. should further 
work with Mexican authorities to properly control 
[its] sea-borders and continue patrols off the 
coasts to ensure that incidents like these can be prevented. Law must be maintained, but catching By  Madeline Leon  Contributing Writer
 After receiving much backlash, UC President Napolitano still receives support for her leadership.UC REGENTS 
BY Armonie Mendez
Editorial Assistant
BY Tyler Faurot
Contributing Writer
UC Regents Rebuke Janet Napolitano’s Role in State Audit
The band Courtship performs at Hullabaloo in Matthews Quad. Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
SAN DIEGO
See CONSTRUCTION,  page 3See NAPOLITANO , page 3See IMMIGRATION , page 3One Dead in Smuggling Attempt off La Jolla Coast
TUESDAY
H 20 L 13
THURSDAY
H 27 L 15
LIGHTS AND SIRENS....2
QUICK-TAKES...............4
HEALTHY EATING.......10
CROSSWORD .............14
W SOCCER.................152 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
POP UP
SHAKESPEARE
BOOK SALE
+ academic/nonfiction/
fiction galore
Del Mar Library
Camino del Mar & 13th St.SaturdaY, Dec  2
10am-12pm
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Marcus is hella salty af.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Aarthi Venkat
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Opinion EditorAssociate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Chris Robertson
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Armonie Mendez, Maya Kleiman, Chloe Esser Thursday, November 16
12:59 p.m - 6:16 p.m. Information
Male possibly exposing his personal body parts. Report Take - Checks OK.2:27 a.m. - 4:13 a.m. Attempted SuicideTransported to Hospital.12:52 p.m. Medical AidFemale having reaction to procedure. Transported to Hospital.4:03 p.m. Medical AidFemale having seizure. Transported to Hospital.9:43 p.m - 10:49 p.m. Threaten Crime with Intent to TerrorizeMale made a threat to physically harm reporting party. Report 
Taken.
Friday, November 17
2:01 p.m. Medical Aid 
Male having severe allergic reaction. Transported to Hospital.
8:32 p.m. Petty The ft
Unknown person seen possibly leaving the laundry room with 
reporting party’s clothes, loss $500. Service Provided.8:52 p.m. Excessive Alcohol
Male student found incoherent during Hullabaloo event. 
Transported to Hospital.Saturday, November 18
12:17 a.m. Disturbance Transient attempting to get medication using a false identification. Service Provided. 1:56 a.m. Excessive AlcoholFemale student found lying on ground vomiting. Transported to Hospital.  9:25 p.m. Missing PersonMale with Alzheimer’s walked away from wedding. Service Provided.9:20 p.m. - 11:45 p.m.  Grand The ft
Unknown suspect(s) took laptop, charger, and headphones 
from backpack, loss $2330. Report Taken
Sunday, November 19
1:53 a.m. Quiet Hours Contact
Loud Talking. Student Conduct Referral.
5:35 p.m. Injury 
Ceiling panel fell and struck male non-a ffiliate on top of head, 
causing injury. Transported to Hospital. 
—   Armonie Mendez
Editorial AssistantLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
For more information, email Lesly at aspresident@ucsd.eduThe Associated Students Oﬃce of the President is looking for students to join the UNIVER (CITY) 
Campus Planning Committee. Members of this committee will be asked to think creatively and 
holistically as UC San Diego campus enters a period of transitions and changes. As we welcome new housing projects, new academic buildings, and the light rail transit, the Campus Planning Committee will attend student town hall meetings as well as other planning meetings to collect student input. Ultimately, the goal of this group is to create a more eﬀective and hands-on approach to have students be part of the community planning process at UC San Diego.officials cited the low cost of using 
the land, as well as a proportionate saving in costs between this project 
and the first Mesa development.
“We’re seeing a savings due 
to the economies of scale of just 
under five percent project to 
project, versus the escalation in 
the economy that’s happening with 
an increase in building materials 
ann labor, ” King said. “We’re able 
to keep the prices marginally lower than the escalation that’s in the 
economy. ”The redevelopment project 
is expected to be completed by 
November of 2019.
Following these approvals, 
Khosla and his associates proposed the development of a new “Triton Pavilion” to house student services. 
The pavilion would be built along 
Gilman Drive between Center Hall and the Conrad Prebys Music 
Center. 
“There is [currently] no location 
called 9500 Gilman [Drive], ” Khosla 
said. “It is a made-up location, it 
is a made-up address. ” The new structure’s address would officially be 9500 Gilman, and serve as the “gateway” to the campus, as Khosla called it. If approved, the project 
is expected to reach completion 
before the fall of 2021.
Videos of the Regents’ most 
recent meeting can be viewed 
online. The next meeting will be 
Jan. 24 and Jan. 25 at UC San Francisco.Janet Napolitano released a statement apologizing for her actions.
▶ NAPOLITANO , from page 1 Project is expected to be completed by 2019.
and turning back these boats would 
also maintain the safety of those on it. ”
Graduate student Jonathan Yost 
is the Water Drop Route leader for the Border Angels, an organization that provides supplies and improves 
safety for the Mexican immigrants 
crossing the border, specifically through the desert.
Through his work, Yost has 
familiarized himself with the 
dangers of crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, such as those faced by the boat group.
 “This is not at all uncommon, ” 
he stated. “People are risking their 
lives and doing really extreme things 
in order to get a better life. ”
Yost describes the method 
of “funneling” that he believes 
may have pushed the group into attempting to enter the U.S. via boat. 
“One thing the government 
has done is [use] a lot of ways to militarize safer urban crossing. ” Yost believes that in urban areas 
immigrants are not so prone to “face a lot of those risks” they may face in desert crossings. “That 
means people [are] pushed into the extreme areas. ”
As of Nov. 22, the whereabouts 
of the other four immigrants, as well as the driver of the boat and the boat itself, remain unknown to authorities. The hospitalized man was released to California Border 
Patrol.those involved in the interference. 
In the end, the regents rebuked Napolitano’s actions as well as her staff ’s.
“The President is responsible for 
setting an appropriate tone from the top and fostering a culture of transparency and accountability on behalf of the University, which operates as a public trust for the 
State and people of California,” 
George David Keiffer, Chair of 
the UC Regents, said. “She is also responsible for the conduct of her staff, particularly her direct reports, 
including her Chief of Staff and 
Deputy Chief of Staff. ”
While the UC Regents criticized 
Napolitano’s actions, some believed the statement was insufficient and 
that more serious consequences 
should result from the findings of the investigation. UC Regent John A. Pérez believed that the actions 
taken by Napolitano are worthy of 
more serious disciplinary action in order to serve as a disincentive from potentially happening in the future, as the offense obstructed Elaine 
Howle’s capabilities and prevented 
the public from receiving truthful responses regarding operations within UCOP .
However, after receiving much 
backlash regarding the matter, Napolitano released a statement apologizing for her actions and her role in the interference. 
“I would like to assure the 
Board of Regents, the students, faculty and staff of the University of California, state legislators 
and the people of California that 
I hear them loud and clear, ” said Napolitano. “I regret deeply that I did not show better judgment in 
connection with this matter. I have 
already taken steps to ensure that this does not happen again and together with the Board will work 
to implement the additional changes 
being recommended by the Board to further strengthen our processes in this regard. ”   
In light of recent events, however, 
the UC president’s leadership is still supported by her fellow regents.
“It is important to note that, in 
directing that the State Auditor’s campus surveys go through the Chancellors and also to her office 
for review, the President relied on 
the advice of counsel, ” Keiffer said. “We are also mindful of the context for the actions taken, including the 
lack of trust between the Office of 
the President and the State Auditor based on a previous audit. Finally, we view the President’s conduct in the context of a long record 
of public service and leadership, 
including strong leadership of this University. The Board continues to have confidence in and fully 
supports her continuing leadership. ”
Effective Jan. 1 will be a new 
legislature making obstruction to 
state audits and offense and subject those who do to fines. Furthermore, 
UC Regents announced that more 
reforms are being created to combat things like this from occurring once more. 
Armonie Mendez  aemendez@ucsd.edu
Both men were originally told by the driver to swim their way to shore.
▶ IMMIGRATION, from page 1
Madeline  Leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu
Tyler  Faurot   tfaurot@ucsd.edu▶ CONTRUSCTION, from page 1
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb 4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
AARTHI VENKAT
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK-TAKES
The decision to shift forward the deadline to drop with a “W” is founded on two points: 
First, it intends to compel professors and teaching assistants to return grades more quickly, 
and second, it means to increase student attentiveness by obliging self-evaluation. It fails both goals. 
 Returning graded midterms to students earlier is an admirable goal but not a realistic 
one. The new deadline assumes that the time it takes to properly grade midterms is dependent upon how effortful TAs and professors happen to feel that week. In reality, grading is an uphill battle where the hill consists of stacks upon stacks of midterms. So, it unfortunately takes as long as it takes. Also, the deadline change ignores the second round of exams that many courses administer after Week 6. This forces students to drop with fewer scores by which to measure their comprehension of the material. The timeline for administering exams cannot feasibly change in response to the new deadline either. Midterms test the material covered in class, so exams would either have to become more frequent but test less content, or happen rarely but become very content-dense. The first alternative would actually increase time to grade — as the stacks of midterms grow ever taller — and the second would give students even fewer opportunities to gauge their comprehension of the material. 
 The other argument — that students who would otherwise drop a course will be 
compelled to drop earlier — ignores the fact that students learn at different rates. It’s certainly true that some students who drop do so because they chose not to put in a meaningful effort. The new deadline will decidedly address some of these students. However, some students simply find themselves unable to keep up with the speed of a class. In that case, not only would the deadline intimidate well-intentioned, engaged students into dropping, it would disproportionately disadvantage students who face issues with family, mental health, and financial struggles. The current, more prolonged deadline gives students significantly more time to accommodate their needs while still working towards the end goal of learning and retaining the knowledge needed from the course. 
 The “W” deadline change represents one of the fundamental flaws in the way UC 
San Diego makes academic decisions — changes often occur without student input. Many students vehemently oppose this new rule, not because we demand more wiggle room with our grades, but because any argument operating under the assumption that students and faculty are actively ineffectual is ignorant of the individual struggles students face.College is a time where we learn to develop into fully functional human beings. 
And while the knowledge gained in the classroom is important, it is the lessons 
learned outside of the classroom that are most important. One such lesson is how to 
prioritize our various obligations, specifically in regard to how we can utilize our 
time efficiently. The recent change in the course drop deadline has this lesson in mind; we must learn to gauge our abilities in the classroom in a timely fashion in order to succeed. Even so, this lesson is a hard pill to swallow, with many students 
outraged by the recent change.
However, this change is vital to the Triton community. First, this change will put 
pressure on our professors to grade assignments in a timely manner. Many of us are 
frustrated that for most of the quarter, we have no grades. This new legislation will encourage professors to reformat how they allocate their time in regard to grading, 
allowing us to better gauge our progress.
Further, this change will encourage students to put in the maximum effort possible 
into a course if they are truly determined to succeed in the subject. Often times, students who drop so late in the quarter do so because they are not pleased with 
their grades. However, attending college is not about getting the grade you want: It is about getting the grade that reflects your effort. With this change, students will be forced to make these tough decisions early on, rather than being allowed to wait until Week 9 without ever learning this concept. Additionally, this will teach students to 
understand their own capabilities in the classroom, teaching us what our maximum 
workloads are based on our individual learning speeds.
While it may not appear to be this way, college is a place to make mistakes. In 
the long run, not getting the grades we want in a handful of classes will not affect our life trajectories. This change may seem alarming now. However, because we 
will learn to self-evaluate our performance in our classes prior to Week 6, we will 
eventually accept and welcome this new deadline.The New Deadline Fails to Return Grades Faster, 
but Succeeds in Intimidating Engaged StudentsThe New Deadline Trains Students to Stay 
Attentive and Effortful in their Coursework
By Chris Robertson // Associate Editor By Jacob Sutherland // Contributing WriterStarting in Fall 2018, Students Will No Longer Be Able to Drop a Class by the 
End of Week 9. Instead, Dropping a Class after Week 6 Will Result in an F in 
the Class. Does this Change Incentivize Students to Engage More with the 
Material or Does It Disadvantage Students who Need More Time?
UC San Diego 
Lags Behind 
Other UCs In 
Tackling Food 
Insecurity
Everyone has seen some joke on social media depicting 
‘college student struggles,’ and many of these jokes revolve around students’ inability to acquire nutritious 
food. However, these jokes underline the important issue of food insecurity that is found across all college campuses in the United States. Each UC campus is doing what it can to help combat this issue, but when compared to other UC campuses, UC San Diego is falling behind in solving the problem of food insecurity. This is due to an inefficient allocation of funds, which is inhibiting the on-campus Basic Needs Hub from securing a more varied array of food resources, instituting a larger building to host these resources, and having regular and consistent hours. 
UCSD Basic Needs Report estimates that one in four students 
have “somewhat to very often” skipped meals to save money, and four in 10 UC students have “very little” access to high quality nutritious food. This topic has recently come to light in 2015 with UC President Janet Napolitano launching the Global Food Initiative and disbursing a $151,000 grant to every UC campus. With this increased funding to combat food insecurity, many UC campuses have already utilized these funds to combat the widespread problem. However, while each campus has already broken ground in this problem, it seems that one campus in particular is leading the pack and becoming the pioneer in minimizing food insecurity. Unfortunately, it is not UCSD.  
On Oct. 2 of this year, UC Irvine launched a 2,318-square-
foot FRESH Basic Needs Hub offering a fully stocked pantry with dried and canned goods, large baskets of fresh fruits and vegetables, refrigerated items, and emergency toiletries.The pantry is the largest, most comprehensive food pantry in the UC system and is open to all students for regular business hours days. In addition to the pantry, multiple programs are available to every student such as the Emergency Meal Swipes Program; applicants who qualify for this program receive 10 free meal swipes per quarter from the UCI dining services. 
UCSD also has a Basic Needs Hub and a food pantry open to 
all students, but they  operate on a much smaller scale. The Triton 
Food Pantry is located in the Old Student Center and can be 
described with one word: cramped. The actual size of the space cannot be more than 500 square feet. While the actual Basic 
Needs Hub is slightly larger, it is currently under construction 
and is rarely accessible. The hours of the food pantry are also 
sporadic since it is not open the same time each day. In addition, 
the majority of the Triton Food Pantry’s food products are processed items, and while this allows for a longer shelf-life, 
the food lacks the type of nutrition that fresh produce and other varied non-perishable items can provide.
The total budget of the UCSD Basic Needs Hub is 
$127,828.03 and its expenditures cost $100,066.59, with a surplus of $27,761.44. With such a large surplus, the Hub could strategically use it to secure a larger space to host the Triton Food Pantry, invest in more sustainable produce, and hire more managers to extend its hours. As of now, the Hub is somewhat fixing the on-campus food insecurity issue by providing free food, but it is only acknowledging half of the problem.The food supplied by the Triton Food Pantry does not always equate to a nutritious healthy meal, due to the fact that most of their products are non-perishable items. This is hardly a nourishing meal for students that rely on a healthy mind and body to accomplish day-to-day tasks. Therefore, the Hub should utilize the budget it was allotted to purchase more sustainable and variable foods such as vegetables and fruits instead of investing in foods with longer shelf lives. Only then would UCSD be able to fulfill its status as conquering food insecurity like UCI has. Until then, many students will be substituting dry produce for nutritious meals, which do not retain any sort of valuable nutritional value except extreme salt content. 
As the cost of living prices continue to rise, more students 
will continue to struggle in finding the financial resources to meet their basic needs. With universities continuing to accept our tuition payments, it is their responsibility to ensure the security and prosperity of every single student attending that school.
“UC San Diego is falling 
behind in solving the problem of 
food insecurity. This is due to an 
inefficient allocation of funds, which 
is inhibiting the on-campus Basic 
Needs Hub from securing a more 
varied array of food resources.”By Clarisse Vazquez // Contributing WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FALL 2017
M: 9am-12pm
Tu: 1pm-5pm
W: 11:30am-2pm
Th: 9am-5pm
F: 11:30am-4pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez Economize
By Suzanne Golshanara //
Contributing Writer IT
Data Driven Donations
The holidays seem to trigger everyone’s altruistic side. 
Indeed, many charities have dubbed the months of October 
to December as the Giving Season, since that is when most 
charities receive the majority of their donations. Yet despite 
their good intentions, a large majority of charities are not using their money effectively. While corporations have incorporated data into their decision making processes in order to ensure 
efficiency and productivity, philanthropic organizations have 
lagged behind. 
According to a survey done by the Nonprofit Technology 
Enterprise Network, only one in four nonprofits uses data to influence its organization’s strategies and programs. Often, 
charities will simply spend funding in the same ways they 
always have without looking for better alternatives, or they will choose to run an initiative that sounds appealing without checking if it is numerically the best choice for their cause. 
Unlike businesses, nonprofits are not directly affected by the 
free market and the creative destruction that it brings. Thus, the root of the stagnation seen in the nonprofit sector mostly comes from the fact that charities do not need to innovate in order to stay operational.
Collecting and analyzing data will take time and may incur 
additional costs, but such actions would more than pay for themselves in the form of increased efficacy of charities. For example, Friends of the Earth thrives due to the “data-centric culture within their organization” that was achieved as a result of its fundraising team “tracking outcomes, testing channels and measuring supporter response.” With their data analysis, 
Friends of the Earth saw that its Street Fundraising Program 
was costing them more than it was worth and ditched it in 
exchange for more advantageous forms of fundraising. In Pro Bono Economics, economists are even willing 
to help assess a charity’s impact and improve their existing 
programs for free. Sue Holloway, former director of PBE, 
recognizes that its economists had “worked with a number of 
charities where the evidence had not been conclusive that they [were] having a big impact.” So yes, data may show charities that their current approach to addressing humanitarian issues 
just is not working. Yet, instead of fearing and ignoring the 
news that data may bring, charities need to welcome it as it may lead them to come up with new methods of helping that are far more effective. Charities do not deal with the competition corporations face, leading to stagnation and a 
lack of innovation. Given that philanthropy is a multi-trillion-
dollar market, higher standards must be held by both charities themselves and by donors who can show preference to charities that have more transparency when it comes to data.
The aid charities supply is no excuse for them failing to 
spend the public’s donations with fiscal responsibility. The nonprofit sector needs to quantitatively approach all aspects of its day-to-day operations by researching which modes of fundraising it will use, implementing programs with the 
highest reach and success rates and regularly re-evaluating its 
latest approach to philanthropy. Philanthropic organizations undoubtedly already help society a great amount; taking a factual approach to giving would only help them help more.
“The nonprofit sector needs 
to quantitatively approach 
all aspects of its day-to-day 
operations by researching 
which modes of fundraising 
it will use, implementing 
programs with the highest 
reach and success rates 
and regularly re-evaluating 
its latest approach to 
philanthropy.”6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Amid the hordes of students that bustle down Library Walk each 
day, it can become very easy to lose one’s sense of self.  
With headphones on and hands shoved in pockets, the typical 
UC San Diego student goes unnoticed amongst the 35,000 that make up our student body. Something about the way that people have become numbers — an iClicker vote, a statistic on university records, and an indistinct face among the masses — has created a crowd of non-humans 
living in a non-human world.
Strangely, it is this very sense of anonymity that propels the beauty of 
Facebook pages such as “Humans of UCSD. ” 
Created in 2014, “Humans of UCSD” (HoU) has sought to illuminate 
the diversity and culture that is present within 
the very individuals who dwell on campus. Its mission: to show that 
people are more than just 
the sum of their GPA. 
Yet, this page is 
not entirely original by nature. Rather, it 
is considered to be a 
subsidiary of journalist and photographer Brandon Stanton’s 
“Humans of New York” 
— a Facebook page that has garnered over 18 million followers since its origins in 2010. Capturing pieces of New York through its inhabitants, “Humans of New York” has inspired “Humans of UCSD” to do the same. By going around and seeking out random people to interview on a weekly 
basis, the HoU team has been able to showcase many of the unique 
individuals that constitute our campus.
So who makes up this team of people? Hidden behind the simple white 
Facebook photo runs a group of around six active members, each brand new to the team this school year. For them — with all old members having 
graduated — one of the biggest difficulties has been having to start with 
virtually no experience. 
“When we’re starting off, we’re just trying to figure out what [the page] is, ” commented Nick Lin, a Revelle College sophomore data science major. “We don’t know what to ask. We don’t know exactly how conversations are supposed to go. And we learn out of experience. We’re also trying to 
figure out our own styles of interviewing and all that other stuff. And it’s 
the beginning that’s the most difficult, I believe. ”
However, hard it may be though, it is this sense of a “fresh start” that 
has allowed for new goals and ideas to develop. To remedy the lack of 
activity and involvement characterizing the page in the past, the new team 
seeks to up its posts to around one per day. Alongside this, there have also been other substantive goals. 
Meet Daniel Walker, a Marshall junior and soon-to-be anthropology 
major. Despite joining 
the team only about a 
month ago, Walker already has big ideas for the page. For him, 
HoU has the potential to 
be be more than just a news site or a professed community. Instead, it should constitute an 
actual connection. 
“One thing I’ve 
noticed with ‘Humans of 
New York’ is that, every 
now and then, someone 
in my friend group will comment, like, or see a post from three to four years 
ago. All of a sudden on my news feed, it will be like, so and so liked this post from ‘Humans of New York’ back in 2013. And then I go look at what they liked, and it’s this emotional story, and what they were commenting 
was how it resonated with them or it got them through because they were 
having a similar scenario — things like that, ” Walker said. 
It is this sense of connection that really displays what the Humans of 
UCSD page is about. In a school filled above and beyond the capacity of the resident halls, Humans of UCSD takes a unique approach to meeting 
people. In a way, it gets to the heart of what it means to be human. By The Humans of 
UCSD Facebook page 
elicits more than just 
a scroll through your 
notifications bar. It 
provides a pathway to meeting people, and 
more importantly, 
knowing the strangers 
that make up the vast student body, with touching and 
relatable stories of 
the interviewees 
helping take readers to a place of genuine human connection.by Madeline Park // Sta ff Writer
“It is this sense of connection that really displays 
what the Humans of UCSD page is about. In a 
school filled above and beyond the capacity of the 
resident halls, Humans of UCSD takes a unique 
approach to meeting people. In a way, it gets to the 
heart of what it means to be human. ”
SeeHUMANS OF UCSD , page 7
Restoring 
the Human 
in Us: 
Humans 
of UCSD
Illustration by David JuarezFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
About 10 minutes away from UC San Diego, in a nestled 
area by Westfield Shoppingtown-UTC, is the UC San Diego 
Health Center, a research and treatment facility. The UCSD 
Eating Disorders Center, which has three separate areas 
for pediatric, adolescent, and adult treatment, is one such facility. Entering the clinic reveals rows of patient chairs and a reception desk, with “UCSD Eating Disorders Center” written 
overhead, alongside an artistic composition of a brain. The 
clinic has multiple offices for personal therapy as well as group therapy rooms. In the adolescent facility, the walls are covered with art projects and statements with personal goals, whereas the pediatric facility has school desks with rows of elementary 
school children. 
 The Guardian sat down with Dr. Erin Parks, director 
of outreach and clinical psychologist, to learn more about the 
research and treatment that makes the UCSD Eating Disorders 
Center unique. 
 “People travel from all over the world to get treatment 
here. We are regarded as one of, if not the, top treatment 
center, in the world, for eating disorders, ” she said. 
 She continued to explain the three aspects of the 
center: research, clinician training, and treatment. Together, all three work “synergistically” to treat patients that are admitted. For example, “research is constantly informing treatment. ”
 According to Dr. Parks, one major problem 
concerning eating disorder treatment is the enduring barriers that discourage people from seeking treatment.
 “Eating disorders are different from other mental 
health disorders in many ways. One way is that it seems to be the last place where we [the greater public] blame the person who’s ill, and we still blame the families of the people who are ill. ”
 Dr. Parks also elaborated on how, as a society and 
as a field of psychology, we’ve come a long way in moving past stigmas of blame to better understand the neurological underpinnings of mental illness, but we still have work to do.
 “Eating disorders are the deadliest of all mental 
health disorders; about 10 percent of people will die of eating disorders out of those afflicted. ”
 But what causes eating disorders? According to Dr. 
Parks, it cannot simply be the effects of our culture. While it may seem convenient to connect the growing social media 
influence with the onset of eating disorders in adolescents, it is 
important to note that while everyone in westernized societies are exposed to media and cultural influences, only about 1 percent of people are affected with an eating disorder. 
 “[There are] plenty of people who don’t like their 
bodies, and plenty of people who diet …  who are exposed to our culture that overemphasizes unattainable ideals … so there’s got to be something going on [neuro-biologically]. For most of us, if we try to not eat, strong biological mechanisms 
override everything else. ”
 Investigating and researching more about what 
exactly happens on the neurological basis is what the UCSD 
Eating Disorders Center is known for. Part of understanding eating disorders — how they come about, who is more affected 
by them, and how differing experiences and traumas play 
a part in disordered eating involves recognizing that eating disorders don’t discriminate according to age, gender, or race.
 “Something that a lot of people don’t know is how 
many males suffer from eating disorders, there are now estimates that up to 40 percent of those suffering are males, ” explained Dr. Parks. Eating disorders also affect people of all ages; the 
UCSD Center for Eating Disorders treats patients from seven years of age, up to about age sixty-five. So why are eating 
disorder patients often depicted in one standard way: 18-25 
years of age, white, and female? 
 “We have a lot of barriers to treatment … a male goes 
to a doctor, and they might be praised for being so physically 
fit … that behavior in men tends to get labeled as ‘dedication’ 
or ‘willpower’ as opposed to really unhealthy or disordered, ” she said.
 Eating disorder clinics can also perpetuate this 
stereotype, as the majority of “treatment centers only treat 
18-25 year olds, ” which can alienate someone who does not fit 
this cutoff but is suffering from an eating disorder.
 “ A lot of our adults say ‘I look at these websites, and 
it’s all a bunch of white girls who are between the ages of 18-25, 
and I don’t see me. ’ [At the UCSD Eating Disorder Center] 
we’re proud to offer treatment to everyone. ”
 The broad realm of people who are affected by 
eating disorders does not mean to indicate that people are equally susceptible to developing an eating disorder, 
however. According to Dr. Parks, there are temperament traits, 
indicating underlying neurological features, that can make someone more susceptible. Traits include proneness to anxiety, 
perfectionism, and the capacity to feel heightened emotions. 
Importantly, these traits are not inherently positive or negative; the way an individual translates features of their temperament into actions and daily life is what determines its positive or 
negative impacts.
 Someone who uses their penchant for perfection 
to purvey their own bodily “imperfections, ” for example, 
are aiming their focus inward in a judgmental and negative light. Part of what the Eating Disorders Center aims to help 
accomplish among patients is the ability to direct these traits 
“outwardly, ” in the form of hobbies or passions, instead of “inwardly” in a self-critical light. 
 Furthermore, college students are drastically more 
likely to develop an eating disorder; while eating disorders affect about three percent of Americans, they affect as many as 10 percent of college students. According to Dr. Parks, there are many features inherent in the college process and lifestyle that could account for this large percentage.
 “ A lot of people who struggle with anorexia have 
[certain] temperament traits; they tend to have tunnel vision, tend to have a very high attentive to detail, and high error-detection rate … a lot of them can also study through fatigue, play sports through the pain. ” 
 Ultimately, she clarifies, these are traits of people 
who go to college. “… so [college] is already a self-selective sample, and while they are definitely people with eating disorders that don’t go to college, the temperament traits for 
anorexia really prime you to do well in our American school 
environment. ”
 A school system that rewards students based on 
proof of dedication often resonates with students that associate success with sleepless nights, stress-induced anxiety, and 
unhealthy lifestyle choices as positive — something to be 
praised. This mindset is inherently harmful, as it correlates unhealthy traits with positive outcomes but can be dangerous or life-threatening when outlets for stress turn toward self-
harming practices, such as restricted eating.
 UCSD, a highly competitive school that lends to an 
over-stressed environment, is no exception. While there are a few students who do reach out to Counseling and Psychological 
Servies or find treatment in the Eating Disorders Center, the vast majority of students that struggle with unhealthy and self-
harmful behaviors do not receive the treatment they need.
 A system and structure that also drives students 
to constantly compare themselves to peers can create an 
environment of competitiveness and comparison; an 
environment that is inherently judgemental. For people who 
are already prone to holding themselves to these unreasonable standard of competition, this type of environment can be especially toxic. 
 The foundation of treatment used in the center 
is based off Dialectical-based therapy (DBT). This form of therapy encourages treatment through “mindfulness and distress-tolerance. ” More specifically, DBT gives patients the skills to accept certain “paradoxes, ” such as acceptance for their 
current self and the ability to embrace change. This form of 
therapy also emphasizes teaching patients skills for how to deal with distressing situations that trigger the feeling of needing to restrict or binge.
 One such skill is called “opposite action. ” “[Patients 
are encouraged to] do the opposite of [their] emotion all the way through, ” explained Dr. Parks. This starts with physically altering how a patient might be sitting, their facial expressions 
(turning a frown into a smile), and considering opposite 
thoughts (supportive instead of self-demeaning). Eventually, patients are encouraged to engage in opposite action — going out with friends if they are by themselves at home, for example.
 Other skills include “accumulating the positive, ” 
or creating a supportive, positive framework, and “riding the wave” of negative emotion without reverting back to compensatory behaviors.
 “It’s not just about eating, usually it’s the large 
emotions that get in the way of doing what you need to do around eating … for some people, eating brings about great anxiety, and we try to use these skills to lower the anxiety, ” Dr. Parks said.
 The UCSD Eating Disorders Center has a range 
of different treatment options for patients,from intensive 10hour daily commitments for six days a week to one-hour per week sessions. Dr. Parks explains that treatment is most effective when patients start at a more intensive level of care, 
if necessary, and gradually decrease the amount of hours 
they spend in treatment as they gain more skills and show improved behaviors. Jumping from one level to the next without adequately “graduating” to a lower level of treatment is not as effective, and can lead to relapse. Students in treatment 
can work with doctors and nutritionists to tailor a schedule 
that allows them to attend school while enrolling in intensive treatment in order to maintain the level of treatment necessary for them. Dr. Parks explains that he Eating Disorders Center 
works with UCSD, especially, to make this possible.
 “ A lot of people, not just from [UCSD] but all around 
San Diego don’t realize is that they’ve got this gem in their 
backyard, ” Dr. Parks explained. If a student or member of the San Diego community is struggling with an eating disorder, 
seeking treatment that fits their needs is easier now more than 
ever.sharing painful moments like the loss of a loved one, or even by expressing the simple joys in life — such as the interviewee who talked solely about rice — HoU takes the reader to a place of deep connection, one that is genuine and sweet. It shows that any given person you sit next to in lecture, stand in the endless Starbucks line with, or work out beside in RIMAC has a story to 
tell. It celebrates our differences, all the while highlighting what connects us. It is this that makes 
Humans of UCSD so special: that we, as readers, are invited to take part in that. 
Yet, there are challenges in bringing out this unity without the attempt being fake. As 
mentioned by Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Kyoka Matsunanga, “Some people have some 
inherent quality in them or something about them that is very unique, very different from 
everyone. But at the same time I don’t want to choose them because of that, because I don’t want them to feel like some sort of symbol or something. The last time we did interviews, we were 
going to chase down this one guy that we saw on Library Walk, and he was blind and he had a 
walking cane. We were thinking of interviewing him, but at the same time it seems like we’re interviewing him just because he’s blind. We’re not seeing beneath all that, we’re not seeing him 
just as a person. And I’m trying to come to terms with how we should go about that. I guess it’s in the kind of questions we’re supposed to ask. ”
In the end, the Humans of UCSD page creates more than just a bridge — it enacts a full 
and complete story. And hopefully, it is this very story that creates the sense of community 
that “UC Socially Dead” seems to be lacking. Perhaps it is best summed up by Walker when he 
explained the effect he wants the page to have. “What I’m hoping happens is after interviewing 
and showcasing so many points, people start feeling those points, and it helps them one way or another. It could just be a laugh at a time when they really need a laugh or a deep connection with somebody they’ve never met before, ” he said. 
In order for UCSD to become a well-rounded community, more interactions and 
conversations such as these need to take place. For our school as a whole, Humans of UCSD can be that first step. 
If you would like to learn more about Humans of UCSD, please visit their page here: https://
www.facebook.com/Humans.UCSD/. 
Madeline  Park   map048@ucsd.edu
Shirelle  Mizrahi   shmizrah@ucsd.edu▶ HUMANS OF UCSD, from page 6
Coping with Eating Disorders and 
Overcoming the Social Stigma to Treatment
Growing awareness and research surrounding the prevalence of eating disorders, the deadliest psychological disorders, point toward a neurological basis. The UCSD Guardian sat down with Dr. Erin Parks, clinician and director of outreach at the UCSD Eating Disorders Center, to discuss what “causes” an 
eating disorder, how current research in fluences treatment, and how enduring social and cultural barriers can problematize treatment.
By Shirelle Mizrahi // Sta ff WriterA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
For Marco Barricelli, “The Green Cockatoo” has been a long time coming. The 
actor-director first came across the play as a student at Juilliard School. Despite his repeated attempts to arrange a production, the enormity of the play’s cast (and the 
associated expense) proved too formidable a roadblock to overcome. Now, as the head of UC San Diego’s graduate acting program and director of this year’s fall production, 
Barricelli has overseen the fruition of a passion project.
“‘The Green Cockatoo’ is the name of an underground tavern [and] performance 
space in Paris, France, ” Barricelli told the UCSD Guardian. The tavern hostess, Prospère, 
acts as a stage manager to an assembly of amateur actors who perform improvisational theater in exchange for food, wine, and meager salaries. The actors use real-world happenings as improvisational inspiration, and the performances allow them to vent their frustrations to the nobility while recusing themselves from legal repercussions under the guise of entertainment. The French nobility receives the improvisations with fascination and great amusement. “The aristocrats come to this place because they get titillated by the 
types of improvs that go on there, ” Barricelli said. The parallels between the performance 
content and the outside world create a palpable tension that pervades the play from start to finish. “There’s a confusion always about what is illusion and what is reality, and that really excites me, ” Barricelli said. 
The play takes place on the night of July 14, 1789 –– the storming of the Bastille. 
“It’s happening at this cataclysmic time, ” Barricelli said. “It’s the disintegration of the monarchy. ” The battle in the Paris streets becomes a direct echo of the sentiments expressed inside The Green Cockatoo. “On this particular night this improvisation is going on and right outside the doors, unbeknownst to the nobility that are in [the tavern], 
the Bastille is being stormed, the peasants are taking over, and so the improvisation 
becomes real. ” 
The meta nature of “The Green Cockatoo” blurs the line between theatrics and reality 
–– even the characters themselves experience varying levels of uncertainty. Barricelli stressed the importance of proper distinction for his actors, but hopes that the play’s ambiguity lingers with his audience. “I hope that they’re struck by the levels that this writer has been able to examine without being sure of all the answers to what they’ve seen, ” he said. “I’ d love if they walked out with questions and not answers. ”
The multi-award-winning director is drawn to theater that is driven by human 
exploration. “I like something that is not focused on event, but is focused on the human condition, ” he explained. Despite its historical premise, Arthur Schnitzler’s “The Green Cockatoo” satisfies this classification for Barricelli. “I honestly don’t believe that Schnitzler’s writing a play about the French revolution, ” he said. “I think he is more interested in the idea of […] human beings’ response to that historical event. ” However, the play’s period-specific vernacular was a deciding factor for Barricelli in selecting the work. “I am more drawn to plays that have some muscularity of language, ” he said. “I wanted to do something not contemporary, something that would require of the actors a sense of scope and size and plain, and sort of panache. ”
The sheer size of the cast came with its fair share of challenges for Barricelli. “ At times 
you feel like air traffic control, ” he remarked. As a director, he takes care to ensure the total development of each character. “I’m trying to make sure that each one of them has a full life, that even the ensemble that don’t actually have lines … that they’re alive, that they’re living in the space, they’re not just filling up space in a period costume, ” Barricelli said. The director included students from all three years of the graduate acting program in the cast and even recruited undergraduates, fostering a diverse learning environment. “Y ou 
have to balance the different levels of acting that are present on stage, ” he said.
Barricelli, whose performance credits include titular roles in “Cyrano de Bergerac, ” 
“Hamlet, ” “Richard III” and many more, has a keen understanding of the theatrical 
process as a whole –– including when to extricate himself from it. His sensitivity to his students’ work is bolstered by his own onstage experience. 
“Being an actor is important because I’m sympathetic to their process, ” he explained. 
“It’s as important to know when not to give a note as it is to know when to give a note. So, I can tell that an actor isn’t quite there yet, but if I step into this process at this moment, and define it for [them], it will lose its organic specificity. It will be something they’ll create 
to please me, rather than something they will eventually get to on their own, which is a 
thousand times more valuable. ”
Barricelli’s acute consciousness of the balance of power in the theater extends to 
his relationship with playwrights, including Arthur Schnitzler. Barricelli doesn’t view his directorial position as an opportunity to tamper with original material. Instead, he devotes himself to delivering the authorial vision. 
“I’m all about the playwright, ” he said. “It’s not a vehicle for me to make a statement 
about the French revolution or revolutions in general or the nobility of the 18th century or the proletariat of the same time, ” he said. “I take what I think Schnitzler wants, and I 
try to realize that. So my guidance is really him. ”
Barricelli, who teaches Shakespeare and heightened text in addition to serving as head 
of graduate acting, revels in his time at UCSD. “I get to do Shakespeare everyday of my 
life, ” he said. The renowned theater faculty was one of the primary factors that drew him to the department. “There were some people that I had known in my professional life who were on faculty here and other people that I’ d known of and admired throughout my professional life, and this was a chance to collaborate with them and that’s terribly exciting to me. ” As an added bonus, Barricelli’s side-hobby of riding motorcycles perfectly suits San Diego’s temperate climate. “I can ride almost 365 days a year, ” he enthused.
Barricelli’s advice for young actors and directors: “Don’t expect too much too soon 
[...] Be patient about a career and let it evolve. ” Barricelli also stressed the importance of cultivating a passion outside of the theater. “Y ou’ve gotta find your joy in life because it’s a hard, hard road […] Make stuff that has nothing to do with theater. Just create, alongside the training. ”
With “The Green Cockatoo, ” Barricelli hopes to make a lasting impact on the lives of 
his students. “What I really hope is that they can close this show being that much better of an actor than they were at the first read-through, ” he said. “That’s really the goal. So they have something they can take with them. ”Marco Barricelli is bringing 1700s France to UCSD with sophistication and style.
By Maya Kleiman // A&E Editorial Assistant 
Behind  the  Curtain  with  Marco  Barricelli
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSDA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
One-hit wonders were a curiously 
common phenomenon in the 
1980s. Arguably, one of the 
best examples of this occurrence was 
Gary Numan’s “Cars, ” which released 
in 1979 and served as a harbinger of 
the New Wave movement. Numan’s smash hit featured synthesizers, drum 
machines, and agoraphobic lyrics, 
extolling the virtues of living in one’s car — where Numan feels safest of 
all. The music video demonstrates the 
aesthetic Numan was going for — he stands on a dark set, complete with densely caked makeup and a spacesuit-
esque costume. Despite its promise, 
“Cars” remains Numan’s most well-known work; his subsequent releases 
have failed to garner the same attention.
Because of this, a concert by Numan 
in 2017 had a certain appeal — what had become of this new wave alien in 
the course of the past 30 years? The opening band, Me Not You, gives a 
hint. It is markedly dark — backed 
by moody guitars and heavy scifi-
inspired synthesizers. Lyrics are largely concerned with mental health and 
paranoia. Me Not You is a punk band 
that puts on an archetypical punk show — it has an attitude reminiscent of the early days of Garbage. In short, it 
doesn’t seem like the type of band that 
would open for a music-scene veteran, especially one who is most well known 
for an ‘80s pop tune. Overall, its 
performance was solid but out of place.
However, it made more sense once 
the headliner began to perform. The moment Numan walked out on stage, he began to show how much he has changed during his long career. This 
tour was done in support of his 2017 release, “Savage (Songs from a Broken 
World), ” and-many of his songs he 
performed come from that album. 
This album was heavily influenced by alternative and metal music and reflects 
a darker outlook from the singer. He 
has dropped his new wave persona and styling in favor of some much closer 
to those found on lead singers for 
industrial rock bands. His performance followed suit; Numan growled his lyrics 
and hovered around the microphone 
on a dark stage. It was evident he was doing his very best to embody the apocalyptic survivor featured 
on the cover of his newest release. 
The album’s lead single, “My Name 
Is Ruin, ” stood out brightly from the rest of the set. This song is much 
more synth and drum machine heavy, pairing better with his earlier releases. 
Numan’s pained vocals complimented 
the darker tone and got the crowd moving — a few even headbanging. 
Ultimately, the energy Numan tried 
to convey in his album is present in 
equal measure in his performance, and it gives his music a new life. It doesn’t 
hurt that he closed out the show with 
his biggest hit, “Cars, ” to many cheers from the crowd. This was a great concert that I would highly recommend 
to anyone looking for a blast from 
the past a la 1980. It felt almost like going back in time. Numan and the 
audience have left the apocalyptic 
wasteland and landed squarely back in the neon New Wave clubs.
—   Bailey CHabot
Contributing Writer
Few venues provide the level of ear-destroying sound quality and atmosphere as The Irenic. A small 
concert venue made out of a renovated church, The Irenic hides away in a residential neighborhood just off the main 
drag in North Park. The location gives the 
shows performed there a special intimacy rarely found in venues of larger scale. 
Therefore, when a band with a big sound 
visits, its performance is even further amplified. This is exactly what happened at the “The World is a Beautiful Place and I 
Am No Longer Afraid to Die” show on Oct. 
23. The sextet released “ Always Foreign” in September of this year, and this show was 
one of its last stops on the promotional 
tour for the album. However, any post-tour fatigue was well hidden as the group 
made jokes with the audience, turned the 
amps up to 11, and played an hour-and-a-half-long set full of energy and angst.
Though most widely known for “Harmlessness, ” its most major 2015 release, TWIABP’s newest album, “ Always Foreign, ” is grander and more well-rounded. With 
the departure of the previous guitarist, the 
band clearly feels freer to modify and play around with its sound. It is also feeling 
free to poke a little fun, as “The Future, ” 
the second track, proclaims “Execute the queen!” — a thinly veiled allusion to the 
departure of former bandmate. “ Always 
Foreign” relies heavily on themes of alienation and loneliness without falling into the bleakness that many emo bands 
are wont to find. Instead, the band focuses 
on a more optimistic stance for this album, contrasting the darkness with lighter 
lyrics like those found in “The Future. ”
The opening artist was Rozwell Kid, an 
indie rock band that manages to stand out from the indie music crowd. It had a great 
energy with the audience, establishing a running gag having to do with sunglasses 
and their effect on rockstar personalities. The band’s biggest hit, “Kangaroo Pocket, ” 
was also their biggest hit on the stage. When they started playing the banger, the 
crowd formed a mosh pit — or the closest 
thing possible in such a small venue. Their set was short but sweet, leaving everyone 
in the room clamoring for an encore.
When the headliners took the stage, the 
room was already hyped up from Rozwell Kid. TWIABP took that energy and ran 
with it. The frontman, Josh Cyr, wailed his lyrics in the same manner as its recorded work, earning points right away. The band 
sounds just as good as on its albums, a 
rare feature in the emo/pop punk genres. When it began to play its current biggest 
hit, “Marine Tigers, ” the energy of the band 
picked up in concert with the energy in the room. The World is a Beautiful Place 
imbued its live performance with all the 
emotion promised by every album in its catalogue thus far. It’s rare that a musician 
or group of musicians creates music of the quality and sincerity they have and their live performances continue the trend.
Overall, both acts were fantastic. 
Rozwell Kid played as if it was headlining 
a major festival. They surprised with a 
performance that delivered all of the 
enthusiasm of a rock band and all of the chill of a local indie band. TWIABP 
showed emotion and vulnerability unlike 
any other act touring. Each song segued into the next in what felt like a story 
unwinding — the night started with its 
slower songs and crescendoed into its most emphatic. The show started off slow and quiet, showcasing the band’s emo roots, 
and ended on a mix of pop punk and hard 
rock uniquely their. The band’s sound sets them apart from the rest of their growing 
genre and makes the group an act to see.
  
—   Bailey CHabot
Contributing Writer
He has dropped his new wave persona and styling in favor 
of some much closer to those found on lead singers for 
industrial rock bands.
The band sounds just as good as on its albums, a rare feature in the emo/pop punk genres.CONCERT  REVIEW
CONCERT  REVIEWGary Numan
TWIABPPHOTO BY ESRA ELHENDY  
PHOTO COURTESY OF WIKIMEDIA10                                      T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
UC San Diego’s 60-degree weather can usually put a smile on anyone’s 
face. But, come December, sometimes we wish for something a bit colder 
to pair with peppermint mochas and Christmas sweaters. While San Diego can’t give us actual snow, here’s a list of places to see and things to do to get you into that holiday spirit. 
Balboa Park December Nights [Dec. 1–2]
For two nights, San Diego’s famous Balboa Park transforms into a 
Christmas wonderland. Featuring entertainment showcasing local talent and a plethora of food, drink, and shopping, it’s the perfect way to mark the beginning of the holiday season. And for those that would rather be indoors, all museums in the park are free from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. each day. 
Skating by the Sea [Nov. 23 – Jan. 1]
If you thought San Diego couldn’t bring you both snow and sea, think 
again. Skate under the  twinkling lights of the Hotel del Coronado’s beachfront skating rink as the sounds of the Pacific fill your ears. The $30 ticket includes skates and a portion of the sales go to Make-A-Wish San Diego. 
The SD Union-Tribune Gaslamp Holiday Pet Parade [Dec. 10]
In the need for some puppers to cheer you up before finals week? Head 
down to Gaslamp to see all kinds of pets, furry or scaly, donned in their holiday best. The parade begins at 3 p.m. — but make sure you go early to get a good spot to watch. 
Christmas Lights [Dec. 10 and Dec. 17]
Stand at the bayfront to watch this year’s San Diego Bay Parade of Lights. 
The event will feature over 80 boats decorated in this year’s theme: “ Arrrgh! A Pirate’s Christmas. ” Or, check out the local light displays — a Google search usually provides ample lists of houses in your neighborhood that have decked out their front porches and yards for all to enjoy.
See a Performance
Experience a classic Christmas story with “The Nutcracker, ” put on by 
the California Ballet, the City Ballet, or West Coast Ballet. Or, if Geisel Library isn’t giving you enough Dr. Seuss, take a trip down to the Old Globe to see a live performance of “How the Grinch Stole Christmas. ” With the holiday seasons bombarding us, we are constantly presented 
with some delicious foods we have not seen for a while. However, this 
might lead to overeating patterns and overindulgence. Here are some tips 
for eating mindfully.
Never arrive to dinner with an empty stomach.Drink a cup of water before the meal and snack on some food high in 
protein if you feel hungry. When you are hungry, your brain craves sugary foods to fill your stomach, which will lead to a spike in blood glucose levels.
Be aware of the beverages you consume.Whether drinking good, old classic apple cider or your favorite beer, bear 
in mind that these beverages are loaded with hidden calories that will also 
fluctuate blood sugar levels. Do drink—but limit the amount you consume. 
The utensils and tableware you use do matter.
Trick your mind into thinking that you’ve taken enough food simply by 
using a smaller plate. Additionally, using a blue color plate will suppress your appetite as our brains do not perceive blue as a safe color to eat. Chopsticks are usually not the first utensil you use when eating turkey; however, that will actually slow down the rate you eat, thus avoiding bloating.  
Pay attention to what and how much you eat. There is a reason why vegetables and fruits are encouraged to be eaten — 
because they contain better nutritional values compare to a bowl of mac n’ cheese, or a slice of pecan pie. Ensure that your plate is filled with vegetables, like brussel sprouts or green beans, and lean protein like turkey breast. Instead of cutting a regular-sized slice of that pumpkin cheesecake you’ve been eyeing since the beginning of the dinner, cut it into a smaller portion, and you will be amazed that you are already full. Finally, you are not in an eating competition so take your time to eat, chewing slowly and thoroughly. 
Take a break.You have done the deed and eaten more than you can handle. First, do 
not feel guilty or disappointed at yourself — this happens to numerous people. Change to some loose-fitting bottoms and take a stroll around the neighborhood or try herbal teas as that will help with digestion. Also, avoid lying on your back as this may cause heartburn.
Disclaimer: I am not a professional, and I am not restricting you from 
enjoying your holiday meal. The purpose of this article is simply to inform you ways to healthy eating.By Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor
By Rebecca Tsang // Contributing Writer
A San Diego Holiday
Healthy Ways to Eat During the HolidaysLIFESTYLE         THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Monday
Dec. 11th
10pmNow that Black Friday has come and gone, and you’ve been able to pick 
up that Vanilla Bean Noel candle along with other unnecessarily necessary 
items, extend the season of gratitude and giving into the rest of 2017. Here are some ideas to practice some compassion and spread a little love around our city of San Diego and UC San Diego campus.
Local Hands for Global NeighborsBe a part of International Rescue Committee’ s team, whose vision hopes 
to assist the transition from “harm to home. ” For eighty-three years, the 
IRC has provided refuge to humanitarian crises at different sites around 
the globe. In San Diego — a major site for refugee resettlement in the City Heights and El Cajon areas — IRC helps with tax preparations, after-school 
tutoring, and immigration processes. Offer some time or donate to their 
#givingtuesday fund online. Another way to lend a hand is to participate in the Border Angels’ water drop. This organization places jugs of water around the desert border region between San Diego and Mexico to prevent dehydration as well as provide immigration counseling and advocacy. Check the website for upcoming dates, events and other ways to help.
Food for ThoughtWith food insecurity affecting nearly 500,000 children and adults in the 
city of San Diego, Feeding San Diego is a community organization looking 
to restore resilience and dignity through the distribution of nutritious food. 
Become an advocate, donate a can or two, or help volunteer to sort, clean, and share food. Or, consider checking out and helping with non-profit The Hub. Hosted at City Heights Coffee House on Monday nights at 6:30 p.m., The Hub hosts a free meal for those in City Heights. 
Fulfill Another Wish ListOn Dec. 21, head over to the nearest San Diego Fire Department 
Station to donate toys for this holiday season with the organization Toys for Tots. Make it a communal effort and invite classmates and suitemates 
to spread some cheer for children in need. Or, consider Rady Children’s In 
Kind Program by donating toys, books or movies for children who might be spending the holidays in hospitals. Donate on Mondays 10-11:30 a.m., Wednesdays 3-4:30 p.m., or any Friday in December from 4-6 p.m at Rady Children’s Hospital.
Cleaning Up the CoastlineCheck out Surfrider Foundation’s San Diego chapter to help with 
cleaning up the shores we call home. In the past year, 135 beach cleanups took place to get rid of 4,000 plastic bags, 18,000 pieces of styrofoam, and 
nearly 9,000 pounds of litter. So before hitting the waves, prevent litter from 
harming marine life and help spiff up the sand.
No time or car to go around San Diego? Opportunities to be a neighbor 
are aplenty at UCSD. Offer time or food to the Triton Food Pantry at the Old Student Center or leave some snacks in study spaces for fellow students to spread some campus compassion. Ah, holiday season; the most wonderful time of the year. We are now entering the 
familiar season of family, gift giving, and good spirits. As students, we’ll trudge through our finals, keeping the long-awaited hometown arrival in our minds for inspiration. Soon, we’ll just be couch potatoes without a care in the world. For a few weeks, anyway.
In the midst of holiday cheer being thrust upon us by nearby stores, TV ads, or 
radio stations, it’s too easy to get caught up in it all. I can honestly say I love to see the jolly decor, twinkly lights outside of houses, and watching “Elf ” or “The Polar Express” in my coziest pajamas. However, sometimes it can feel like we only get one option during the holidays: be cheerful, merry, and bright at all times. Though it may be ideal, 
that’s not always the case.
For many, holidays can bring stress. We stress over buying the perfect gift for the 
perfect person. We stress over all of the family gatherings we go to, where we wrack 
our brains for all the highlights of the school year so far. As we catch up with relatives, we want to sound as good as our Instagram pages make us look. Who actually wants to hear how many times we’ve doubted our choice of major, debated adding on that minor, or how that essay we wrote last week caused a slight existential crisis, anyway? We even stress over the fact that our nearest Rite Aid starting putting holiday decorations out before Halloween had even passed (I know I can’t be the only one!). 
The holiday season comes fast and furious; this time of rest and relaxation over 
break can still make us feel tired or worn out. And that’s OK. In addition to the normal stressors, this season can also be hard in other ways. Holidays, especially those when we celebrate what we have and what we’re thankful for, often serve as reminders of what we’re missing. 
This will be my third Christmas since my dad passed away in 2015. I love Christmas 
and all the fun that comes with it, but I’ d be lying if I said it didn’t hurt, too. Last year, my family didn’t even bother buying a tree. Often times I find myself wishing I could just sleep through October to January. It can be hard to feel present and authentic 
without being the Debbie Downer of your friend’s white elephant party. However, what 
I’ve learned in the past three years is that we don’t need to be in happy holiday mode 24/7. More importantly, if we feel the opposite of merry, it’s crucial that we take time for ourselves. 
Over this upcoming break, go to all of the holiday parties, watch all your favorite 
holiday classics, and check in with your family and friends. In between those moments though, do what you feel you need to do, too. If you find yourself feeling ambushed by holiday spirit, take a drive by yourself. Play your favorite song too loud and sing along even louder. Go for a walk. Call a friend. Buy a fancy bath bomb, and take the 
most luxurious bath you’ve ever taken. Whatever it is you need, do it! A major part of 
this year involves giving, but, as cheesy as it sounds, make sure you’re giving back to yourself, too. By Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle Editor
By Colleen Conradi // Contributing Writer
A City That GivesSelf Care During the Holiday Season12                                    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Ascendant Sign
Sometimes people may seem like their sign and have characteristics that 
oppose those of their sign; this primarily has to do with their ascendant (or 
rising) sign. One’s ascendant is how they come off to others. It is their public face, 
the mask they wear every day. It shows one’s innate defenses and initial responses 
to the environment.
Aries:
Aries ascendants are very straightforward and forthright. They crave immediate gratification 
and are somewhat childlike in their actions. Always moving on to the next fun thing, Aries 
ascendants do not hold grudges and get over past dramas easily.
Taurus:
Taurus ascendants are stable and loyal. They do not enjoy change, though. This rising sign 
will find it challenging to immerse themselves in entirely new situations. They also enjoy the finer things in life. However, this extravagance can do more harm than good at times.
Gemini:
Gemini ascendants can be spotted by their classic curiosity. Being fun, witty, and talkative 
people, they have a special interest in people and social phenomena. They need intellectual 
stimulation and always ask questions.
Cancer:
This ascendant sign is more understated. They are gentle and timid. When entering foreign 
situations, they stay back and observe first. Cancer risings come off as kind and caring. Surprisingly, they value security just as much as an earth sign would.
Leo:
Loud and proud, Leo ascendants demand everyone’s attention. Despite their air of 
confidence, they are quite self-conscious; image is everything. Being very emotionally driven, rising Leos can let their feelings carry their actions too far.
Virgo:
Virgo ascendants are analytical, but reserved. Their attention to detail sets them apart. They 
can be controlling at times, but it is only because they aspire for perfection. Their standoffish attitude does not show how truly modest and helpful they are.Libra:
Libra ascendants are generally very likeable. They are kind, pleasant, and easy to get along 
with, explaining their many friendships and relationships. They need balance in their lives and 
have a talent when it comes to intervening and mediating. 
Scorpio:
Strong and intense, Scorpio risings demand attention and respect. Because of their tuned 
emotional intuition, they can see through a person’s image and see the real them. Scorpio ascendants are genuine and honest.
Sagittarius:
Sagittarius ascendants are characterized by a child-like exuberance and wanderlust. They 
want to learn through experiences; at times it seems as if they are running away from something 
instead of running toward it.
Capricorn:
Competent and confident, Capricorn ascendants can achieve whatever they put their 
mind to. They are quite serious, and not the most emotionally expressive. Their high level of responsibility is obvious to anyone and everyone they meet.
Aquarius:
The quirky Aquarius rising keeps everyone on their toes. They have seen it all and are 
hardly ever shocked. Their humanitarian interests and kindness can throw people off. They are strangely unique and different than anyone else you have ever known.
Pisces:
Pisces ascendants are very gentle and adaptive. They are soft-hearted and compassionate. 
Though they are perceived as timid and quiet, this is not always the case. Rising Pisces are dreamy and sure to put anyone in a daze.
That’s all for this week’s addition to Astrology 101. Make sure to check back in next week, 
Astro-lovers!By Natasha Vandamme 
// Contributing Writer101:CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS  FEUFOLLETTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 27 - DEC 32017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN12.01 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
UC SAN DIEGO BLOOD DRIVE - 
BLOODMOBILE ON LIBRARY 
WALK
BLOOD DONORS - Lives depend on it! Contact: 
hrdcc@ucsd.edu
4pm
DR. YINGXI LIN FROM MIT - 
SANFORD CONSORTIUM, DUANE J. ROTH AUDITORIUM
How are transient experiences converted into 
long-lasting memories? How do experiences modify behaviors? How do similar experiences elicit drastically different behavioral responses in the healthy and disease states? The key to answering these important questions is to understand how sensory information is processed and stored in the brain. My research aims to address these questions at the molecular and cellular level, by exploring the mechanisms by which experiences are coupled to synaptic modifications of neural circuits that lead to long-term behavioral changes.
7pm
LIVING LIKE LORDE - 
OFF -CAMPUS
This month marks the 25th anniversary of 
Audre Lordes passing. The legacy of this self-described Black, feminist, lesbian, poet, and warrior has much to teach us about living in this moment in time. We invite you to join us as we celebrate the life and work of Audre Lorde. The free screening of "A Litany for Survival: The Life and Work of Audre Lorde" is open to the San Diego community and will be followed by a brief film discussion and open mic. We invite everyone in attendance to share their original works, read their favorite works by Lorde or simple share their reflections on Audre Lorde. Refreshments will be served. Digital Gym, 2921 El Cajon Blvd, San Diego, CA 92104. Contact: cgs@ucsd.edu10am
UC SAN DIEGO BLOOD DRIVE - 
BLOODMOBILE ON LIBRARY WALK
BLOOD DONORS - LIVES DEPEND ON IT!
Appointments will be honored first. Schedule an 
appointment with the San Diego Blood Bank by logging onto http://www.sandiegobloodbank.org, click on “Donate Blood” select “Appointments”, Provide Sponsor Code: UCPC *Walk-ins are welcome as openings are available. Picture identification is required. Donors are eligible to give blood every 56 days. Earn points for each blood donation and shop online at the Donors 4 Life Store. Sponsored and Coordinated by the UC San Diego Human Resources Department
7pm
LIVING A TOBACCO-FREE LIFE - 
GREEN TABLE ROOM, PRICE 
CENTER WEST
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday! Come to learn and practice 
languages, exchange culture weekly, and to 
connect with students from all over the world! 
Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see which languages 
are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: 
http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: 
ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu10am
6TH ANNUAL TAIWAN FILM 
SHOWCASE - PRICE CENTER THEATER
BLOOD DONORS - Lives depend on it! Contact: 
hrdcc@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 9 - GREAT HALL
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, 
and Friday! Come to learn and practice 
languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see which languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
6pm
MORE THAN A WORD FILM 
SCREENING AND DIALOGUE - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Join us for a film screening of More Than a Word 
and dialogue following the film. The dialogue will 
include a deeper discussion of the films themes 
with insight from film creators. Specifically attendees will: Learn constructive dialogue skills, explore policy implications, engage in cross-cultural communication. View the film trailer: https://www.youtube.com/watch ?v=A86QFzzp7s8. Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.edu
6pm
ILEAD: MORE THAN A WORD 
SCREENING AND DIALOGUE (DOUBLE STAMP ) - THE LOFT, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER EAST
Join us for a screening of More Than a Word and 
dialogue following the film. The dialogue will include a deeper discussion of the films themes with insight from film creators. Full attendance at this workshop will grant you 2 stamps. Presented by Jenny Kressel, Student Org Advisor, Center for Student Involvement. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
ALL DAY
SEAS ‘N’ GREETINGS - BIRCH 
AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
From December 1 to 31, Birch Aquarium at 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography is transformed into a holiday wonderland full of SEAsonal activities for the whole family. Deck the Hall (of Fishes) and get into the holiday spirit every day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and check the schedule for special appearances by Scuba Santa, crafts, activities, as well as live holiday music on weekends. All holiday activities are included with admission.Please check our website for the full calendar of Seas ’n’ Greetings events.5:30Pm
UCSD WOMEN’S BASKETBALL VS. 
CAL STATE SAN BERNARDINO - 
RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Women's Basketball 
team as they take on Cal State San Bernardino! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6pm
TEFL CERTIFICATE PROGRAM 
INFORMATION SESSION - UC SAN 
DIEGO EXTENSION, ROOM 106
UC San Diego Extension offers a high-quality 
certificate program in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL),which can open doors for you to teach around the world. The information session will include a brief overview of the program, instructor presentations, and a question and answer period. *Special benefits available for full-time UC San Diego students. A light snack and refreshments will be served. Contact: tefl@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: IT 
- PRICE CENTER THEATER
University Centers is bringing the horrors of 
Pennywise and the hilarities of The Losers Club to campus on Thursday, November 30th! The record-breaking film "It" is now the highest-grossing R-rated movie of all time. Doors Open: 6:30 PM. Film Starts: 7:00 PM. FREE for UCSD Students with valid ID. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
UCSD MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. CAL 
STATE SAN BERNARDINO - RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Men's Basketball team 
as they take on Cal State San Bernardino! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 8 - ASANTE CLASSROOMS
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday! Come to learn and practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see which languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
8pm
FEUFOLLET - THE LOFT
Feufollet is Americana at its finest reverential but wholly nonconformist. The young and vibrant southwest Louisiana band takes Cajun, honky-tonk, and string-band music as starting points, keeping an open mind about where their songcraft will lead them next. On their most recent album, Two Universes, Feufollet prove their Cajun roots don’t define them as much as propel them forward. The band accomplishes the unusual feat of creating a sound that is at once familiar and fresh, classic and yet unmistakably original. Contact: artpower.marketing@ucsd.eduTUE11.28
THU11.30
SAT12.02MON 11.27
FRI12.01WED11.29
2pm
UC SAN DIEGO PUBLIC TOURS: 
HIGHLIGHTING CAMPUS HISTORY, 
ART AND ARCHITECTURE - 
PARKING LOT P103
UC San Diego’s Visitors Tour Program offers 
free tours to local residents, new faculty and staff, first-time visitors and the general public. These Sunday afternoon tours are led by knowledgeable adult volunteer guides who are eager to show you the most notable features of our beautiful 1,200-acre campus.SUN12.03THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EASTFRIDAY
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
DID YOU KNOW?
DECEMBER 1
NATIONAL PIE DAYCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Fertile desert spot
6. Concluded10. Messy fellow
14. Razor ____
15. Ascend
16. Roman garment17. Comic ____ DeGeneres18. Christmas carol
19. Bakery item
20. Not year-round
22. Showed feelings24. Finale25. Kept
27. Flower container
28. More sharply inclined
32. Most skillful35. Pause36. Legendary boxer
37. Sulk
38. Maiden name indicator
39. Grinding machine40. Pitcher’s stat41. Bottomless43. Raspy45. Get together again47. Wish48. All people50. Bustle53. Make attractive56. Jeweler’s helper58. Placed59. Smelling organ61. Make right62. Window ledge63. Pub potables64. Succinct65. Fashion magazine66. “____ we forget”67. Computer keyDOWN
 1. Overweight2. Woody or Tim3. Mixed greens
4. “Beware the ____ of March”
5. Spanish women
6. Elaborate7. Fiddle’s kin8. Compass point (abbr.)
9. Eases up
10. Took long steps
11. Burglar’s booty12. Stare13. Hairless
21. Bird’s home
23. Track event
26. Words of comprehension (2 wds.)27. Animal doc29. Couple
30. House additions
31. Agitate
32. One who mimics33. Tedious one34. Hawaiian feast35. GOP member38. Not ever, poetically39. ____ West of Hollywood41. Opera star42. Unending43. ____ Kong44. Perform surgery46. Sewing item47. Not lying49. Positive answers50. Turn aside51. Compact52. Command53. Ultimatum word54. Brad55. Pickle seasoning57. Prayer close60. Bullring cheerHOUSING
La Jolla Crossroads. $1875- $3050. 9085 
Judicial Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. Picture yourself in a Meditteranean village- the 
aroma of fresh food, the chatter of people 
in the park and an easy stroll to shops and fun. We welcome you to visit La Jolla 
Crossroads. You’ll be minutes from the 
beach, UCSD, major employers, shopping, 
movie theaters and fine dining! Our stylish studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes feature washers and dryers, modern appliances, fireplaces, roman tubs and cathedral ceilings. La Jolla Crossroads 
offers amenities that are truly one of a kind pools, spas, a tech lounge, movie theater, 
modern clubhouse with kitchen. You can 
work out in our fitness facility and then 
hang out in our picnic areas with BBQ’s. We offer services to our residents including 
a shuttle, package acceptance, concierge 
services, 24-hour courtesy services and so 
much more.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
La Jolla International Gardens. $1645 - 
$2555.3417 Lebon Drive, San Diego, CA 
92122.  The art of living comes alive at La Jolla International Gardens located in La Jolla/UTC area of San Diego, CA. La 
Jolla International Gardens treats you to a 
wealth of executive appointments featur -
ing our Newly Renovated 1 & 2 bedroom apartment homes. Your backdrop: dramatic 
vaulted ceilings, a romantic wood-burning 
fireplace, breezy patios (on select units) 
and large master suites with walk-in clos -
ets; all providing an open and airy canvas 
to complement your lifestyle. A resort-
style fitness haven has been designed to 
meet your quest for fun and activity. Work 
out in our complete gym with Nautilus and aerobic equipment, swim in our heat -
ed lap pool, or simply relax in a bubbly jacuzzi. Entertain guests in our game room, 
complete with wet bar, kitchen and pool 
table......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Costa Verde Village. $1800 - $3525. 8720 
Costa Verde Boulevard, San Diego, CA 
92122. We welcome you to visit our luxury community in the beautiful La Jolla/UTC 
area of San Diego, California. Costa Verde 
Village has everything to offer including 
studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes that include full size washers 
and dryers, central air and heat, private balconies and patios, modern kitchen with 
pantry and in select homes we have fire -
places available. Costa Verde Village offers 
spacious floor plans, fitness center, billiards 
and game room, refreshing swimming 
pool with spa, playground and planned 
resident activities. You are convenient to La 
Jolla beaches, UCSD, UTC Mall, and much more.......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
BICYCLES
Hampton Cruiser Bicycle.  Looking for a nice Cruiser for back to school /College /
University without paying too much? this 
Hampton Cruiser is light mauve/ Gray.. new inner tubes lots of tread on tires good back 
brake easy with comfortable Fuji seat as 
the other 1 got stolen.….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Vintage Orange Bicycle. The “Excerciser” . Good condition, Bronze copper finish. From the 60’s or 70’s. Asking $89 or best offer. 
Measures approximately 40” tall x 45” long 
x 19” wide. Adjustable seat and handlebars. 
Please email, text, or call with any questions between the hours..…...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
MTB Trek Fuel. Selling my 2009 Trek Fuel 
EX 6.5 Full suspension Mountain bike. Size 
medium 17.5. Front fork is RockShox Recon 
335 SL Air 130mm of travel rear shock is 
Fox RP2 120mm of travel Bike is in a attrac -
tive shape and recently has been serviced. 
Shock and Fork..... ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationJOBS
Gas Station Cashier needed in University 
City. University City Mobil is looking for 
a hard-working cashier. Experience pre -
ferred but not necessary. Must be courte -
ous and prompt. Please apply in person at 
University City Mobil 3861 Governor Drive 
San Diego, CA 92122…..ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
San Diego SAT Writing and Language Tutor. 
Varsity TutorsVarsity Tutors is always look -
ing for bright individuals in San Diego who 
are passionate about mentoring others. 
Aside from having knowledge in a subject 
area, tutors should also be friendly, articu -
late, and punctual. Working with Varsity 
Tutors in San Diego includes several ben-
efits, such as the flexibility to schedule your 
own sessions , and to set your own tutoring 
load. We put forth great effort to match 
students to the right tutors, resulting in relationships that provide for great learning 
environments...... ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
San Diego SAT Tutor Job. Varsity Tutors. 
Varsity Tutors is always looking for bright 
individuals in San Diego who are passion -
ate about mentoring others. Aside from 
having knowledge in a subject area, tutors 
should also be friendly, articulate, and 
punctual. Working with Varsity Tutors in San Diego includes several benefits, such 
as the flexibility to schedule your own ses-
sions , and to set your own tutoring load. 
We put forth great effort to match students 
to the right tutors, resulting in relationships 
that provide for great learning environ -
ments........ ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
University City Mobil 
is looking for a 
prompt and courteous 
individual for part-
time cashier work. 
Apply in person 
3861 Governor Drive 
San Diego 92122
what do you
need?
let ushelp.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
MONDA Y
IS   THE   NEW
BLACK
CYBER MONDAY SALE • 11/27
to.ucsd.edu
FREE STICKER WITH EVERY PURCHASEALL HULLABALOO APPAREL ON SALE
ALL LA HOLLA APPAREL ON SALEAmid a season that felt like no one could find a way to beat them, 
the UC San Diego women’s soccer team dropped a penalty-kick 
heartbreaker to No. 23 University of Colorado – Colorado Springs 
Sunday evening in the NCAA quarter finals. 
The Tritons hit the ground running early, scoring the first goal of 
the game about 15 minutes into the first half. UCSD senior forward 
and All-CCAA First Team honoree, Katie O’Laughlin, picked up her ninth goal of the season on a right-footed strike to the le ft side 
of the net. Assists were granted to senior forward Mary Reilly and 
freshman mid fielder, Caitlin McCarthy.
Several aggressive plays led to multiple bodies flying le ft and 
right as both teams would go down in a dog fight tonight. UCSD carried its one goal advantage into hal ftime. 
The second 45-minute period opened up with back-and-
forth shots from both sides of the pitch. In spite of six corner kick opportunities and an additional 10 shots on goal in the second half 
alone, the Tritons still failed to push one past six-foot UCCS senior 
goalie, Taylor Proctor. 
With 11:02 le ft on the clock in regulation, UCSD committed 
a careless foul inside the goalie box that gave the Mountain Lions 
a penalty kick and direct shot at the Tritons’ goal, which UCCS 
capitalized on.
Even at one goal apiece a fter 90 minutes, the audience sat at 
the edge of their seats filled with angst and excitement. Following 
two scoreless 10-minute overtime periods, the match was set to 
conclude in a five-round penalty kick shootout. 
UCSD sent forward All-American and team captain, O’Laughlin, Saddic, Barber, and two freshmen mid fielders, Michelle Baddour 
and Delaney Whittet. Unfortunately, the Tritons came up one goal 
short as the Mountain Lions prevailed 4–3.
Despite the loss and in just her third collegiate game, Wilkes 
performed spectacularly, recording five stunning saves including 
two full-body extended stops. As a true freshman, Wilkes’ talented blocks prolonged the match for the Tritons multiple times.
UCCS commanded in shots on goal 23–20, saves by period 8–5, 
and fouls 15–13. 
Despite the tough atmosphere following the game at Triton 
Soccer Stadium, UCSD finished the season at 17–2–3 and celebrated 
the finale of seven outstanding Triton senior careers.BY Madeline Lewis
Staff WriterAfter opening up the score in the first fifteen minutes through Katie O’Laughlin’s right footed shot, the Tritons conceded the equalizer on a penalty 
kick with ten minutes left in regulation. The score remained tied through overtime, and UC San Diego ended up losing 4-3 on penalty kicks.Women’s Soccer Fails to Make the Final Four, Falls to No. 23 University of  Colorado Colorado Springs
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org  
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
woMEN'S Basketball 
UC San Diego vs. Dominican 
University of California
Last Friday, the UC San Diego 
women’s basketball team played in 
and hosted the eighth annual UCSD 
Thanksgiving Classic. The Tritons 
started the tournament with a bang, soundly defeating Dominican 
University 75–57.
The Tritons established their lead early in the game, earning the first 
points of the game with a layup by 
senior forward Dalayna Sampton. Though the Tritons never lost their 
lead, the game remained close through the first half of the first quarter. 
However, three-pointers by junior forward Joleen W ang and guard 
Marcella Hughes brought UCSD out 
to a more commanding 16–8 lead. The 
Tritons remained dominant, closing out the first quarter 20–12.
For the rest of the game, the Tritons 
continued to add onto their lead. In the second half, junior forward 
Rebecca Williams and sophomore forward Mikayla Williams had nice 
performances, tying each other for 
a team-high eight points. A three-pointer by senior Paige Song gave 
the Tritons a 10-point lead midway 
through the fourth quarter; a fter that 
point, the Tritons lead never dipped below double-digits. UCSD easily 
handled Dominican for the rest of the 
game, coasting to a decisive 75–57.
In both halves, the Tritons 
consistently outscored the Penguins by at least 10 points. Through all four 
quarters, the Penguins were never able to hold a lead. A key to the Triton’s 
victory was their depth and balance. 
UCSD managed 41 points o ff the 
bench and, while no single player had a dominant game, they played excellent 
team basketball.
UC San Diego vs. Azusa Pacifi c 
The UC San Diego women’s basketball 
team fell to Azusa Paci fic in the fourth 
game of the Thanksgiving Classic 
tournament on Saturday a fternoon. 
The two teams struggled to maintain 
a lasting advantage until the Cougars 
managed to pull ahead one final time 
in the fourth quarter, winning 82–76. 
 Azusa Paci fic took the lead 
early in the first quarter as the Tritons 
were unable to capitalize on their shots. 
The Cougars stayed ahead, challenging 
UCSD’s defense with hard pressed layups.
Although the Tritons continued to 
trail throughout the half, they steadily rose until they were behind merely 12–
14 in the last two minutes. Junior guard 
Marcella Hughes sank a three pointer 
in the final minute of the quarter, 
securing a 15–14 lead.
Senior forward Dayana Sampton 
kicked o ff the second quarter with a 
layup, making the score 17–15 in the first 30 seconds of play. The Cougars 
quickly clawed their way back to the top, utilizing their strength in layups to 
regain the lead, 19–18, within the next 
two minutes. 
The Tritons responded almost 
instantaneously, tying the game at 
20–20 before pulling ahead yet again. A three pointer by senior guard Paige 
Song and two by Hughes kept UCSD’s 
advantage, ending the second quarter 
37–36.
The lead bobbled between the two 
teams 8 times throughout the entirety of the third quarter. The Tritons 
managed to score their layups while 
the Cougars continued to bury threes 
until they gained a steady advantage 
over UCSD.
When it looked like Azusa Paci fic 
might hold onto its lead, UCSD put its 
foot on the gas and continued to drive 
to the basket. Another crucial layup by 
Sampton in the final four minutes gave 
the Tritons the push that they needed 
to recapture the lead.
The Tritons odds at taking the final 
quarter looked promising, ended the third quarter with a layup by Mikayla 
Williams and regaining the lead, 60–
59.
The fourth quarter did not fall in 
the Tritons favor as the Cougars took 
back the lead with a layup in the first 
two minutes. The Cougars kept their 
advantage for the remainder of the 
game. UCSD was unable to find its 
momentum, turning over the ball and 
struggling to get shots o ff.
Although Azusa Paci fic dominated 
the scoreboard for the majority of 
the half, the Tritons didn’t go down 
without a fight, staying right on the 
Cougars heels and utilizing Hughes’s three pointers to eventually pull ahead 
in the last three minutes. However, Azusa Paci fic struck yet again, scoring 
a three pointer and five free throws 
in the final 40 seconds to secure their 
victory, 82–76. 
The loss moved the Tritons to 
4–2 overall. The women will begin 
their California Collegiate Athletic 
Association season at 5:30 p.m. on 
Nov. 30 at home against Cal State San Bernardino. 
Delaney Whittet  dwhittet@ucsd.eduBY Delaney Whittet and Wesley Xiao
Staff WRITERSAfter the Thanksgiving Classic, UC San Diego looks ahead to CCAA season.Tritons Split Weekend Matchups
UC San Diego vs. Western 
Washington 
The UC San Diego men’s basketball 
team defeated Western Washington, 
81–73, on Friday, Nov. 24 in its first 
game at the Chuck Randall Classic.  
With the victory, the Tritons improve 
to 2–3 on the season with one more 
game to go before the California Collegiate Athletic Association season begins. 
The first half was a back-and-forth 
affair with neither team able to gain 
a signi ficant lead. The teams traded 
baskets, until the final minute of the 
half. Subbing in for redshirt freshman Mikey Howell, senior guard Anthony Ballestero sank a three-pointer to put the Tritons up 41–38 going into halftime.
The Tritons came into the second 
half with a head full of steam. Senior forward Michael Shomaker grabbed an offensive rebound, finished a layup, 
and knocked down a three-pointer within the first two minutes of the 
half. His energy fueled the Tritons, as UCSD never lost the lead. 
However, the Vikings were 
persistent, closing the lead to just two points in the final two minutes 
of the game. With the Vikings on their tail, the Tritons called again on Shoemaker. A fter a 30-second 
timeout, Shoemaker sank a basket 
from behind the arc to stall the Viking 
momentum and put the Tritons up 
78–73 with 0:42 le ft to go. Feeling the 
pressure, Western Washington hastily 
chucked three-pointers and were fortunate enough to grab two o ffensive 
rebounds for more opportunities. They were, however, unable to convert 
on any of their attempts. Free throws by junior guard Christian Bayne and 
senior guard George Buaku sealed the 
game for the Tritons, giving them the 81–73 victory.
UC San Diego vs. Alaska 
Fairbanks 
In its last game at the Chuck 
Randall Classic, UC San Diego defeated Alaska Fairbanks 80–56 to earn its second win of the tournament. 
The second consecutive win improves 
the Tritons’ overall record to 3-3.  
The Tritons had a solid shooting 
afternoon as they shot 51.7 percent 
(31–60) from the field, including 
an impressive 47.1 percent (16–34) from the three-point line. Sophomore 
forward Scott Everman had seven of the team’s three-pointers on the afternoon, piling up a game-high 
24 points on eight for 16 shooting. 
Everman was one of four Tritons in 
double- figures: Senior guard Anthony 
Ballestero and junior guard Christian 
Bayne added 17 and 16 points respectively, while junior forward Christian Oshita ended with 12. Ballestero had the most e fficient game 
of all the Tritons, as he earned his 17 points o ff of six-of-eight shooting, 
including five threes from behind the 
arc.  
Alaska Fairbanks never looked to 
pose an issue to UC San Diego, as the Tritons dominated throughout and had “ ....another quality win” according to head coach Eric Olen. Within ten minutes of tipo ff, UCSD already held 
a double-digit lead and never looked back as the team consistently shot 
the ball from the three-point line. 
Over half of the Tritons’ shots came from three-point land and their high-percentage shooting really gave them the upperhand in the game.  
Another category that UCSD held the advantage was in turnovers, as they minimized turning the ball over to 10, while their opponents had 19. The 
Tritons made sure to make the most out of the 19 turnovers, with 27 points 
coming o ff of those opportunities.  
For the second consecutive 
game, the Tritons hit the 80-point 
mark. Most importantly, both games resulted in wins. The success in the 
tournament served as a good tuneup for the start conference play, which starts later this week for the Tritons. 
Oshita was named MVP of the 
Chuck Randall Classic, averaging 
17 points, all while shooting 59.1 
percent from the field.  Bayne and 
Ballestero also were included in the All-Tournament team.
Up next for the Tritons is the start 
of the California Collegiate Athletic Association season as they are set to take on Cal State San Bernardino at RIMAC Arena for their home opener 
on Thursday, Nov. 30.  Tip-o ff at 7:30 
p.m. men's  BasketballPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
UC San Diego evens 
up its season record with back-to-back victories over Western Washington and Alaska Fairbanks.Christian 
Oshita 
Leads 
Tritons to Chuck 
Randall 
Classic Win
by Richard Lu and 
Daniel Hernandez// 
Associate Sports Editor and Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
richard lu  RIL014@ucsd.eduUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Basketball
M Basketball
Swim & Dive
W Basketball
M Basketball11/3011/30
12/112/212/25:30 PM7:30 PM
2 PM
5:30 PM7:30 PMCal State San BernardinoCal State San BernardinoAT San Diego StateAT Cal State San MarcosAT Cal State San Marcos
Wesley Xiao  WEX057@ucsd.edu
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu