VOLUME 50, ISSUE 21   MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 9, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
NEW YEAR, SAME 
OL’ MISTAKES
RESOLUTIONS ARE INFAMOUS 
FOR BEING MADE, AND EVEN 
MORE SO FOR BEING BROKEN. 
WILL 2017 BE ANY DIFFERENT? 
LIFESTYLE SAYS GOODBYE 
TO THOSE WE TRY AND FAIL, 
LOOKS INTO SOME HISTORICAL 
RESOLUTION MAKING AND 
OFFERS NEW ALTERNATIVES 
TO OLD FAVORITES. 
ACCOUNT ABLE  GOVERNMENT
OFFICE  OF  CONGRESSIONAL  ETHICS
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
HOPEFULLY , THESE DECISIONS  
REFLECT  A DESIRE  TO IMPROVE  
STAR TREK’S LGBT TRACK  
RECORD , AND DEPICT  A MORE  
BELIEVA BLY INCLUSIVE  FUTURE  
THAT TRULY  EMBODIES  THE 
VULCAN  MAXIM , “INFINITE  
DIVERSITY  IN INFINITE  
COM BINATIONS .”
- Thomas Finn
LGBT Representation in 
Star Trek
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCITECH  ......................... 2
LAPTOP USAGE IN CLASS..3
A&E .............................. 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
SWIM AND DIVE  ............ 16lifestyle,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY APRIL GAU/UCSD GUARDIAN
The UCSD Associated Students 
Office of the President announced 
an increase in funding for the 
undocumented student community 
on campus on Dec. 29. A.S. 
President Daniel Juarez  committed 
$175,000 each year for the next three 
years to services for undocumented 
students, and $100,000 over the next 
three years for financial aid grants 
for undocumented students.
Currently, all $825,000 of those 
funds have been raised. The Office of 
the President is now looking within 
the current budget to evaluate the 
possibility of adding an additional 
$100,000 per year toward financial 
aid grants, which Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez 
offered to match for a potential 
total of $200,000 over the next three 
years.  
According to Daniel Alfaro, the 
coordinator for the Undocumented 
Student Services Center on campus, 
the school is estimated to have 
300 students this year who are 
undocumented.
The needs assessment survey, 
which prompted the creation of the 
center in 2014, did not take place 
last year, but Alfaro said the center 
had many meetings with students, 
student leaders, the Migrant Rights 
Awareness organization and other 
groups, as well as feedback from 
students who would visit the office 
and tell him what they needed.
Juarez explained to the UCSD Guardian that the distribution of 
the financial aid grant funds will be 
decided by the financial aid office, 
and the funding for services will be 
allocated by Alfaro in collaboration 
with students.
Alfaro noted that the center 
will rely on students and the 
Office of Student Affairs as well as 
other groups on campus to decide 
specifically toward what the money 
will go.
“We are determining how to use 
those funds, but we know we want 
to support our students with grants, 
we want to support them with 
academic development, professional 
development, community building 
and immigration services; so UCSD Receives 
Record Number 
of  Freshman 
Applications for 
Fall 2017ADMISSIONS
More students applied to UC 
San Diego than any other UC 
campus, except for UCLA. 
UCSD has broken its record for 
freshman applicants, receiving 88,451 
applications for the Fall 2017 quarter. 
The figure pushes past UC Berkeley’s 
total number of freshman applicants 
for the second year in a row, making 
UCSD the second most applied to 
University of California after UCLA. 
The UC system had a record number 
of applicants for this fall, receiving 
171,449 in-state freshman applications 
for a 3.1 percent total increase across 
the nine public universities.
UCSD data reflects a seven percent 
increase in applications from California 
residents. At 35 percent, the largest 
group of California applicants hail 
from the Los Angeles area, followed by 
the Bay Area at 16 percent.
The data also shows a 10.6 percent 
increase in UCSD applications from 
historically marginalized communities. 
African American applicants increased 
by 12 percent, followed closely by 
Latinos and Mexican-Americans 
whose applications to UCSD rose by 
11 percent, according to a press release 
from UCSD News Center. The three 
largest groups of applicants still remain 
Asian Americans followed by Latinos 
and finally Caucasians. The number of 
students who will be the first to go to 
college within their families increased 
to 40.2 percent.
Out of state applications to 
UCSD decreased by 1.5 percent 
while applications from international 
students rose by 3.2 percent. However, 
with 59,080 California residents 
applying to UCSD for fall 2017, 
Californians still remain the heavy 
majority at 66.8 percent of those that 
apply to the school.
The most popular majors at 
UCSD continued to fall within the 
fields of social sciences, engineering 
and biology.
In a statement released by the 
UC Office of the President, UC 
President Janet Napolitano noted that 
the growing number of applications 
illustrates the quality of the university.  
“This year’ s applications affirm, 
once again, that Californians’ demand 
for a UC education keeps getting 
stronger, ” Napolitano said. “This 
is a testament to the excellence of 
California’s public research university, 
and reinforces the imperative to 
continue working with our state 
government to preserve UC’s quality 
and affordability, and to ensure there 
is a place at the university for every 
deserving California student. ”
To address that demand, the UC 
system intends on enrolling 2,500 
more students this year, contributing 
to its goal of adding 10,000 additional 
students across the nine UC campuses 
over the next three years.UC Officials Announce Tuition Hike Plan
The University of California introduced a 
proposal on Jan. 4 to increase tuition by 2.5 
percent for the 2017–2018 academic year. 
Pending the approval of the Board of Regents, the 
tuition hike will be the first in six years.  
The Board will vote on the $282 tuition increase 
at its meeting on Jan. 25 to Jan. 26, along with a 
systemwide $54 student service fee raise intended 
to provide more funding for campus mental health 
resources. 
According to a press release from the UC Office of 
the President, the purpose of the hike is to increase 
funding for programs “like tutoring and academic 
counseling” as well as to allow campuses to hire more 
faculty and teaching assistants.
In the statement, UCOP spokesperson Dianne 
Klein explained that about two-thirds of students will 
have the tuition increase fully covered by additional 
financial aid, and many students already receive 
complete financial aid for their tuition and fees.
“More than half of California undergraduates 
have all of their tuition and fees completely covered by financial aid, ” Klein said. “That will continue to 
be the case. ”
Klein further added that one-third of the tuition 
hike would “go back into supporting need-based 
financial aid for California undergraduates. ”
Gov. Jerry Brown is one of several state officials 
who believe that this “modest increase” would be 
reasonable after six years without any other hikes, the 
Los Angeles Times stated. 
However, the tuition increase has faced opposition 
from many students across the UC system, and 
student protesters briefly disrupted the Board’s 
meeting in November.
UC President Janet Napolitano told the UCSD 
Guardian and several other UC student-run 
newspapers that she agrees with students that tuition 
increases should be minimal.
“I’m with students that tuition needs to be as 
low as possible, ” Napolitano said. “It also needs 
to be predictable, and we need to have generous 
financial aid to help those students from lower-
income households. That is what we are striving B y  LAUREN  HOL T    NEWS EDITORMEN’S BASKETBALL
President Daniel Juarez pledged $825,000 for financial aid and more for undocumented students. See TUITION , page 3
A.S. COUNCIL
BY   N a t as h a  V y h o vs ky
contributing writer
See FUNDING  , page 3
With eight straight wins to open conference play, UC San Diego moved to the top of the conference table. 
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
UC SYSTEM BY  t i a  i k e m o t o
staff writer
A.S. Secures Funding for Undocumented StudentsCITY GOVERNMENT AND 
NON-PROFITS HAVE MADE 
GREAT EFFORTS TO FIGHT 
HOMELESSNESS, BUT 
SAN DIEGO STILL HAS THE 
FOURTH LARGEST HOMELESS 
POPULATION IN THE COUNTRY. 
WE TALKED TO PEOPLE CLOSE 
TO THE ISSUE WHO SUGGESTED 
THAT SAN DIEGO’S STRATEGY 
FOR FIGHTING HOUSING 
INSECURITY IS DUE FOR AN 
OVERHAUL.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  7
UCSD SPORTS
wha t  ha ve  they  been  up  to?
sports,  P age  16HOMELESSNESS  IN  SD
See ADMISSIONS , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.orgThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Sex is a way of getting to know 
eachother, physically...
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Rosina Garcia 
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Miguel Sheker
Christina CarlsonEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Alicia Ho, Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatResearchers at UCSD have 
discovered a subpopulation of 
neurons that encode the axis of 
travel on a multi-path setting. 
The results, published in the 
online research journal Nature 
Neuroscience on Dec. 19, revealed 
novel information into how the 
brain navigates through space.
The researchers placed rats into 
an arena of multiple, interconnected 
paths while measuring neuronal 
activity, and observed “axis-tuned” 
neurons in the subiculum that fire 
whenever the rats traveled in either 
direction on a particular line.
The subiculum is located in the 
inferior region of the hippocampus, 
an area known to play critical 
roles in navigation and episodic 
memory. Running through space 
can be considered as a series of 
events, or episodes, that help to 
understand how the hippocampus 
is contributing to spatial cognition 
and episodic memory.First author and cognitive science 
Ph.D student Jacob Olson explained 
that one of the distinctions between 
axis-tuned and the previously-
discovered head-direction neurons, 
is that axis-tuned neurons peaked at 
opposite orientations.
“The biggest difference is having 
two preferred directions instead of 
one — all head direction neurons 
have one preferred direction, ” Olson 
told the UCSD Guardian. “But if 
the neurons were axis-tuned … 
[it would] seem more likely to be 
closely related to the space as well as 
the direction. ”
The next variance between the 
two neurons is the environment in 
which they are active. Axis-tuned 
neurons responded only to paths, 
while head-direction neurons 
responded to both paths and open 
fields. Olson pointed out that the 
routes the rats traveled on was a 
factor previously overlooked.
“The other important aspect 
of open-field versus path is that 
previous work has mostly focused 
on open-field experiments, ” Olson 
explained. “This highlights the importance of giving the animals 
structured space and tasks for 
interpreting what these brain 
regions are doing. ”
Senior author and professor 
of cognitive science in the UCSD 
division of social sciences Douglas 
Nitz elaborated on the importance of 
the open-field and path distinction.
“In many other studies, spatial 
mapping is examined when animals 
simply wander around an arena 
aimlessly, ” Nitz said. “This study 
shows that, while that approach 
has value, you may be missing key 
operations that the brain carries out 
when navigating in the real world. ”
Nitz said that one of the 
interpretations for the different 
environmental preferences is that axis-
tuning pertains to the orientation of 
the path relative to the environment, 
as opposed to the orientation of the 
animal to the environment in head-
direction neurons.
Neurons communicate via 
action potentials, which produce an 
electrical signal that can be measured 
using special devices. Researchers 
measured these signals while the rats ran on interconnected routes. 
Olson described the technique that 
they used to determine neuronal 
activity based on this property.
“The neurons were recorded 
by implanting electrodes into 
the subiculum and recording the 
electrical potentials that occur,” 
Olson said. “We recorded from 
near the cell bodies, so it is an 
extracellular recording … and we 
can record the electrical signals that 
the cells near the wires are creating. ”
Nitz concluded by outlining 
their research in the context of 
understanding how space and time 
is represented in the brain.
“To understand navigation, you 
need to understand which of the 
nearly endless spatial relationships 
out in the world are actually encoded 
in neural activity and you need 
to know in what regions different 
spatial relationships are encoded, ” 
Nitz said. “Our work illuminates 
a unique role for subiculum in 
mapping the orientation of paths 
relative to the larger environment. ”UCSD Researchers Discover Neurons that Indicate Direction of Travel
The scientists placed rats on several connected routes and monitored the brain cells of the subiculum while the animals moved.  SCITECH
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
senior staff writer
Ming-Ra y Liao  m4liao@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  THROWBACK: BIRDLAND By Rebeca Dyer
mightily to do. ”
When asked if a decrease in 
tuition would be possible in the 
future, Napolitano noted that such 
a change would be unlikely, largely 
due to a lack of state funding.
“[A decrease in tuition] would 
require the state to put in substantially 
more money, particularly given 
the enrollment growth we’ve had, ” 
Napolitano stated. “I’m concerned 
about affordability and accessibility 
for [the university], but I’m also 
concerned about quality. Y ou 
want to hit the sweet spot where you’ve maximized affordability and 
accessibility but also maintained or 
improved quality and the quality of 
the academic experience. ”
Since 2000, state allocations have 
dropped from providing 24 percent 
of the UC system’s revenue to 10 
percent in 2014.  
In addition to the funding it 
receives from the state, the university 
supplements tuition revenue by 
reforming its methods for land 
procurement, founding its own 
captive insurance company to save 
costs by insuring itself, completing 
energy efficiency projects and soliciting private donations. 
However, according to the Daily 
Cal, Jason Constantouros, a fiscal 
and policy analyst at the California 
Legislative Analyst’s Office stated 
that the LAO has repeatedly 
suggested a new funding policy to 
UC officials, which would “organize 
the increasing cost of education and 
call for specific percentages of that 
cost to be paid for by the state and 
by the students. ”
in general, those would be the 
buckets of funding that we would 
be allocating the money we are 
receiving, ” Alfaro told the Guardian.
Juarez further emphasized 
that providing funding for 
undocumented students is 
universally beneficial. 
“I think in general it benefits 
everyone directly,” Juarez stated. 
“It is very deliberately trying to 
alleviate situations for one of 
our communities and one of our 
communities that has the least 
resources available to them. I 
also think it’s a message that our 
university cares for undocumented 
students, and hopefully that will 
continue for further actions that 
they need. ”
The UC Office of the President 
has also made commitments to 
protecting undocumented students across the UC campuses by initiating 
the D.R.E.A.M. Loan Program in Jan. 
2016, which allows undocumented 
students to apply for loans from the 
UC system itself, and establishing               
the Undocumented Legal Services 
Center in May of last year. 
In the wake of the presidential 
election, UCOP also released the 
Statement of Principles in Support 
of Undocumented Members of 
the UC Community. Issued in 
late November, the statement 
promises, among other things, that 
campus police officers will not 
question, detain or arrest students 
“solely on the basis of (suspected) 
undocumented immigration status” 
or assist with state, local and 
federal investigations into students’ 
immigration statuses.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
stated during a conference call with 
the Guardian and other UC student-
run newspapers that she considers immigration investigations into UC 
students a waste of immigration 
enforcement agencies’ resources 
because “these are the kind of young 
people you want to have stay in 
the country. They have a lot to 
contribute to our country. ”
Napolitano additionally 
explained that the university is 
exploring what other support 
it should offer to undocumented 
students, such as mental health 
services and fortifying their 
legal services, and that while she 
took retaliation by the federal 
government into consideration 
when creating the Statement of 
Principles, Napolitano does not                                                                                                       
believe it is an immediate concern 
considering that unrelated 
retaliation is illegal. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 12 • 5:30 - 6:30 PM • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
for PPLICATION QUESTIONS, Contact ASSOCIATEDSTUDENTS@ucsd.eduor the first-ever
uc student advisor!Be the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTRaise your voice, leave your legacy
Join us for an exciting opportunity to speak with current 
UC Student Regent Marcela Ramirez! Learn about her 
position, the brand new Student Advisor position,
and how you can apply .▶ TUITION,  from page 1 Napolitano: We Need to Balance the Quality and Affordability of the UC 
UCOP Considering An Expansion of Services for Undocumented Students
▶ FUNDING,  from page 1Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Na t asha  Vyhov sky  NVYHOVSK@UCSD.EDU▶ ADMISSIONS,  from page 1 
Change in number of applicants Change in number of applicantsChange in UCSD Freshman Application Demographics
Change in UCSD Freshman Application Demographics3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
-500
14000
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0Number of years since 2015
Number of years since 20150                        0.5                         1                         1.5                         2
0                        0.5                        1                         1.5                        2African Amercian
American Indian
Asian American
Chicano/Latino
Missing
Pacific Islander
White
Berkeley
Davis
Irvine
Los Angeles
Merced
Riverside
San Diego
Santa Barbara
Santa Cruz4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
On Jan. 2, House Republicans, 
albeit against the wishes of their 
leaders, voted to dismantle the Office of 
Congressional Ethics, an independent 
investigative office created in 2008 
following a series of bribery scandals 
that sent three congressmen to jail. Most 
notably, they sought to allow members 
of the House Ethics Committee to 
conduct future investigations into 
their peers’ wrongdoings, to strip 
the office of its power to accept 
anonymous tips, and to no longer 
require allegations to be disclosed to 
the public. Understandably, citizens 
from across the political spectrum 
furiously bombarded representatives’ 
offices with their concerns.
Disclosure of allegations is a 
powerful deterrent against unethical 
behavior, and even when an allegation 
is proven false as the result of a 
comprehensive investigation, faith in 
the representative is restored; faith in 
our system of justice is strengthened. 
Anonymous tips, too, are required for 
a serviceable investigatory body, for 
without fear of reprisal, lawmakers 
are significantly more likely to report 
unethical behavior. And, with politics 
clearly established as an inherently 
corrupt system, politicians should 
not be entrusted with the power to 
investigate themselves; this is giving 
Winnie-the-Pooh a jar of honey and 
telling him not to eat it.
So ridiculously self-seeking was 
this vote that president-elect Donald 
Trump, no paradigm of ethical 
behavior himself, decried the move 
as representative of “misplaced 
priorities” … all while calling the OCE 
“unfair. ” Mr. Trump, the OCE exists to 
make politics more fair by not allowing 
politicians to so easily get away with 
bribery and conflicts of interest. 
Given Trump’s continued ownership 
of the Trump Organization, which 
has far-flung business operations and 
creditors in every corner of the finance 
industry, conflicts of interest are sure 
to plague his Wall Street-studded 
administration. His dismissal of the 
OCE as “unfair” should be cause for 
alarm, especially when Trump is sure 
to personally benefit from his planned 
financial deregulation and tax cuts. 
Independent oversight is the only way 
to protect ourselves from inevitable 
ethical quandaries and rebuild some 
semblance of trust in our government. 
The fundamental factor in 
functioning democracies is trust — 
trust that the elections are fair and that 
the government serves the people and 
not itself. America was long able to 
rest upon its credentials as perhaps the 
most open, democratic country in the 
world; its position of moral superiority 
emboldened its citizens to truly believe 
that our country is indeed a city upon 
a hill.
Last year’s elections shattered 
this image. The leaked DNC emails 
further exposed politics as a foul 
game rigged by party officials and 
major donors, and the incrimination 
of Russian government hackers in 
swaying the election in favor of Trump 
undermined faith in the legitimacy of 
our elections. Now, with trust in the 
holiest of our institutions diminished 
— the Russian objective achieved — 
we stand at a crossroads. We must not, 
like too many in Russia, keep our heads 
down and simply accept government 
as utterly corrupt. W e must instead 
demand accountability to ensure that 
our politicians do not use their power to 
free themselves from moral obligations. For 50 years, across six series and 
13 films, Star Trek has used its science 
fiction premise to make topical social 
commentary. The franchise’s central 
mission — “to boldly go where no one 
has gone before” — applies not only 
to its diverse characters’ exploration 
of their galaxy on a starship, but also 
to the show’s exploration of subject 
matters, allegory and the sensibilities 
of its audience. CBS has announced a 
seventh series, “Star Trek: Discovery, ” 
set to premiere in May 2017 starring 
Sonequa Martin-Green, known for 
playing Sasha on “The Walking Dead, ” 
alongside queer-identified actor 
Anthony Rapp, playing a gay character. 
This marks a long overdue change, 
as Star Trek has always sidelined 
its implied-queer characters and                                                                 
their storylines throughout the 
franchise’s history.
The characters of the original series 
maintain a default cis-heteronormative 
view of all beings, including aliens 
as bizarre as an incorporeal ball 
of energy, which the characters categorize as female in one episode 
based on its “natural” heterosexual 
love for a human man. Though Star 
Trek famously depicted a diverse, 
inclusive future where people work 
together regardless of race, national 
origin, sex or species, cooperating 
alongside one another toward 
a common goal, it also very much 
reflected its era, with blatant double 
standards like miniskirt Starfleet 
uniforms for the female crew. Even 
Spock, the show’s voice for reason and 
scientific explanations, occasionally 
makes sexist remarks about women’s 
abilities, and some of Captain Kirk’s 
relations with his female subordinates 
would seem wholly inappropriate in 
a modern professional environment, 
let alone a 23rd century starship. As 
our gender politics evolve, Star Trek’s 
original treatment of gender in a 
supposed future seems more and more 
anachronistic and absurd; getting 
gender wrong necessarily means that 
any attempts to explore LGBT topics, 
were there any in the first place, would seem likewise shallow.
Luckily, the franchise survived 
into the late eighties and nineties and 
kept exploring the kinds of issues 
it could address and the kinds of 
diversity it could represent. Its issues 
with representing women seem all 
but resolved in these series, where 
some episodes even poke fun at the 
original series’ sexism. But where 
the gender equality of this future 
seems more believable in the newer 
shows, examples of explicitly queer 
characters and themes remain few and                     
far between.
“The Next Generation, ” Star Trek’s 
third series, includes one episode 
where an alien breaks the gender 
norms of her culture and undergoes 
forced conversion therapy. Another 
episode deals with an android raised 
without gender and encouraged 
to choose her own identity and 
appearance, taught that love can exist 
between people regardless of gender. 
It also introduces a species called the 
Trill, who can survive death by settling into a new host body, experiencing 
different personalities, sexualities, 
and gender identities throughout             
their lifetimes.
“The Next Generation” spawned 
two spinoffs in the 1990s, “Deep 
Space Nine” and “Voyager, ” the former 
featuring a black captain and the latter 
a female captain. In “Deep Space 
Nine, ” the characters casually embrace 
their colleagues’ alien family structures 
and reproductive habits, talking about 
them in passing and making many of 
the same kinds of remarks they make 
about heterosexual, monogamous 
human families. One main character, 
a Trill named Dax, makes regular 
mention to her past as both men and 
women with husbands and wives. Her 
fluidity seems most notable in one 
episode where she meets an ex-wife 
she had in a former male host body, 
and finds the two still have feelings 
for one another despite their culture 
treating “reassociation” with past 
See STAR TREK , page 5
QUICK TAKESAS PROFESORS CONTINUE TO DIFFER IN THEIR POLICIES ON LAPTOP USAGE IN LECTURE HALLS, RESEARCH 
SUPPORTS CAUSES FOR AGAINST. DO ELECTRONIC DEVICES INHIBIT OR ENHANCE THE LEARNING EXPERIENCE?
In Allowing Integrative, Collaborative and Flexible Appraoches 
to Learning, Laptops Have Rightful Place in Lecture Halls
Banning laptops is a simple, yet effective, solution to the problem of 
student distraction during lecture. Studies from various researchers, including 
Michigan State University, have confirmed this assertion, going so far as to 
note that, on average one-fourth of lecture time was spent on non-coursework 
related internet usage. Furthermore, lecture laptop usage has shown no positive 
benefits for students; instead students tend to “copy more and synthesize less, ” 
ultimately ending up with a worse understanding of the material. In addition, 
research has definitively shown that removing laptops forces students to slow 
down, handwrite and analyze the important parts of a lecture, leading to a better 
retention of the material. Paradoxically, this approach is not modeled when 
taking notes via laptops, since students have a tendency to type quickly and 
directly copy lecture slides, rather than deeply comprehend a topic. To further 
cement this point, additional research showed that even when students referred 
back to their computerized notes, which were much longer and more thorough, 
handwritten notes still proved king, largely because students understood the 
information better the first time.
This research is frustrating for students, especially those who would prefer 
to “zone out” for a lecture rather than focus on the material at hand. This is 
especially true for classes deemed to be “low-effort, ” namely general education 
courses which many students don’t respect. However, students should strive to 
look for courses that are interesting and engaging, and therefore, command respect. 
Doing so, and then banning laptops from lecture, would create an educational 
environment, allowing students to effectively learn and synthesize new information 
that they find useful and relevant. Arguably, a good portion of the desire to use laptops 
is a thinly-veiled desire to defocus during lectures, and encouraging students to take 
interesting classes would reduce dependence on laptops, even if the class itself was 
harder than a more boring and less engaging class.
Professors should be enacting new rules in their lecture halls so that they can 
continue to keep participation and interest high. It is unfair to ask professors 
to compete with the vast plethora of information and entertainment on the 
Internet, and even the most dedicated laptop-using student sets an example 
for struggling students, who may lack similar note-taking and comprehension 
abilities. Education, therefore, is a group effort, and you can do yours by turning 
off the screen until after class ends.
             — NATHAN WALKER
Associate EditorBecause many students use their laptops to further facilitate learning in the 
classroom, lecturers should allow laptop use and take advantage of the prevalence 
of technology to encourage student engagement. During information-heavy 
lectures, many students find handwritten notes overwhelming, seeking refuge 
in the speed and ease of electronic note-taking. Furthermore, with ever-
progressing note-taking technology, students can easily make diagrams, insert 
pictures or videos and have their notes stored in the cloud for quick access and 
live-collaboration through Google Docs and other popular softwares. This 
is the age of digitized sources, and online lecture slides, textbook readings 
and interactive activities prove to enhance learning for students who feel 
comfortable using their laptop as an academic aid. The issue is not that laptops 
are inadequate for note-taking; it is that students are often not trained to 
effectively take notes electronically. However, this is dramatically changing, as, 
according to THE Journal, 75 percent of high school students use their laptops 
for educational purposes, and the vast majority believe tablets will “help them 
learn and lighten their backpacks. ” Laptop use in education is increasingly 
commonplace, and young students are becoming more comfortable with using 
their laptops for academics. 
Instructors can apply this relationship with technology to adapt to new forms 
of hands-on learning and evade distractions in the classroom. As Assumption 
College Professor Jim Lang writes, “when you have a sea of distracted students 
while you are reading slides from the front of the room, it may be time to 
explore some new teaching techniques. ” Technology provides an easy outlet to 
distracted students, but disengaging lecturing is the primary reason they are 
distracted. Instead of placing a blanket ban on all laptops or simply lecturing 
without engaging with the students and their devices, lecturers could take a 
nuanced approach to benefit from pervasive laptop use. By directing the class to 
certain pertinent articles, creating interactive online guides to follow or making 
polls to understand how students best learn, lecturers can communicate in the 
language our generation best understands. At the same time, instructors need 
to be trained to interact with a technology-dependent younger generation and 
bridge generational gaps in learning. Teaching proper note-taking skills on 
our devices and engaging in interactive lecturing will lead students to be less 
distracted in class.
                                 — AARTHI VENKAT
                             Editorial AssistantBy Prohibiting Laptop Usage in Lectures, Professors Encourage 
to Focus First and Foremost on What Matters: Content
For decades,Star Trek has failed 
to feature dynamic characters 
whose gender identites and sexual 
orientations stray from heterosexual 
and cisgender standards. “Discovery” 
can and should mark a change.With “Discovery,” Star Trek Has 
Opportunity to Meaningfully 
Include Queer Identity In Series BY THOMAS FINN // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONBY KENNETH SCHRUPP // 
CONTRIBUTING WRITERProponents of 
OCE’s 
Dismantling Leave 
Accountability 
Behind
kenneth schrupp    kschrupp@UCSD.EDUOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeYOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.eduromances as taboo. The two women 
kiss onscreen, the first of its kind in 
any Star Trek series, but ultimately 
decide the consequences of a forbidden 
relationship seem too great.
Aside from Trill characters, “Deep 
Space Nine” codes some of its main 
characters’ encounters as potentially 
bisexual. The show includes an 
intimate, at times seemingly flirtatious, 
but platonic, relationship between 
two male characters, as well as an 
additional main character who comes 
from a species of liquid shapeshifters 
called changelings who can melt 
together in a euphoric act analogous 
to human orgasm, which he does with 
both a male and a female of his species.
Still, the only explicitly bisexual 
characters on the show come as 
antagonistic “mirror universe” 
versions of main characters. In several 
episodes, the characters meet versions of themselves from a dark alternate 
timeline, wherein the mirror version 
of Kira, a female main character, 
clearly expresses sexual attraction to 
both men and women. Mirror Kira 
reveals she and the mirror version of 
Dax have a sexual relationship, even 
kissing on screen. Unfortunately, with 
this kind of overt bisexuality left to 
their amoral mirror counterparts, the 
show perpetuates the stereotype of 
associating bisexuality with hedonistic 
depravity, the kind that characterizes 
the mirror universe at large.
The most recent Star Trek series, 
“Enterprise, ” did not improve its 
visibility of queer characters, save 
for one main character who comes 
from a culture of open polygamous 
marriage, and also sets up an allegory 
to the AIDS crisis in one episode 
with telepathic mind melding in place         
of sex.
In all these series, Star Trek has 
not yet depicted an explicitly gay or bisexual protagonist,  even despite 
George Takei, the gay actor who 
portrayed Hikaru Sulu in “The 
Original Series, ” reportedly asking 
Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry 
for a gay or lesbian storyline almost 
50 years ago. Ultimately, the show 
made no attempt, since its depiction 
of an interracial kiss had already cost 
ratings, according to Roddenberry. 
However, this changed last year with 
Hikaru Sulu greeting his husband and 
daughter in a scene from “Star Trek 
Beyond, ” and will continue this year 
with Rapp’s gay character announced 
in the main cast of “Star Trek: 
Discovery. ” Hopefully, these decisions 
reflect a desire to improve Star Trek’s 
LGBT track record, and depict a more 
believably inclusive future that truly 
embodies the Vulcan maxim, “Infinite 
diversity in infinite combinations. ”
THOMAS FINN     TFIINN@UCSD.EDU▶ STAR TREK, from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Exiting the I-5 South freeway, lined with palm trees, the sun glints off the ocean just a few miles to the 
right. A cruise through downtown takes you past looming financial buildings and office spaces. Y oung 
professionals dressed in baby blue button-ups with sleeves rolled up to their elbows dine outside trendy 
New American restaurants.
         However, just a few blocks from some of the richest real estate in California, there is a semi-permanent 
homeless settlement. Squeezed between the city’s gorgeous multimillion-dollar, nine-story library and Petco 
Stadium lies what used to be a plaza. As the homeless population rose and was pushed out of the busier financial 
sections of the city, people began to take over the plaza. Hundreds of tents line the sidewalks all around the lot. 
Men and women sleep on benches in the middle of the warm day or squat on the sidewalks. The lot is so heavily 
populated by homeless that a two-man convoy of policemen on bikes constantly patrols the area. They ride around 
the block over and over, neutralizing fights and watching out for risks. They are kind to the men and women of 
the encampments, but their work is endless amidst a sea of tents, trash and people down on their luck.
         This homeless square has been a result of anti-loitering laws and other measures which have culminated 
in a life in which it is not acceptable to be poor and homeless — corralling San Diego’s homeless population 
slowly into this one block. It has swollen far past its capacity, and cars must swerve around tents that spill out into             
the roads.
         Homelessness is an issue that goes hand in hand with many metropolitan cities across the country. In 
2015, officials from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development put New Y ork City at the 
top of its list, followed by Los Angeles, for the highest population of homeless people. Moving up to fourth place 
that year was sunny San Diego. With a countywide homeless population of 8,742 at last count, San Diego’s struggle 
to reign in its numbers has been a long, slow battle.
         According to Richard Gentry, president of the San Diego Housing Commission, in an interview with the 
Los Angeles Times, there are several factors that contribute to the city’s high levels of homelessness. Drug abuse, 
mental illness and high costs of living are common causes of homelessness and are by no means unique to San 
Diego; they also contribute to the high homeless populations in Los Angeles and New Y ork City. What is unique 
about San Diego is its large military community, which has led to the state’s second-highest population of homeless 
veterans, according to 2015 Department of Veterans Affairs data, in addition to its temperate climate, which makes 
it possible to sleep outdoors year-round rather than to seek admission into a homeless shelter.
 While some have been drawn to San Diego for its mild climate, others have been sent from neighboring 
states. In February of last year, NBC San Diego reported on a lawsuit against a Las Vegas hospital which bussed 
more than 500 of its patients to San Diego, San Francisco and several other California cities. Many ended up on 
the streets.
         Granted, San Diego does deserve credit for its efforts. It has come a long way from 2007, when there were 
a record 10,000 people living without fixed housing. Collaborations between the SDHC, state and local officials, 
nonprofits and the federal government have helped reduce the homeless population by nearly 2,000, but these 
efforts have not been enough in comparison to the success of other cities. Within the past ten years, San Diego 
jumped from 12th to fourth on the list of highest homeless populations because cities formerly at the top of the 
list have found more efficient ways to combat homelessness, causing their levels to fall faster than San Diego’s.
         Why is it that San Diego has been bogged down with the same issues while others have pressed ahead?
         One city council staffer is all too familiar with the frustrations San Diego has faced in trying to answer 
this question.
 “It’s a very large and complex problem that no one really has their arms around, ” the staffer, who chose 
not to be identified, told the UCSD Guardian. “Nobody really knows how much is spent [by the city] in trying to 
help the homeless population in San Diego each year. ” The individual believes this is the real issue holding San 
Diego back — a lack of centralization of organizations and services for the homeless.
 They continue, “There’s over 100 different nonprofits within San Diego that are all trying to work on 
homelessness in San Diego, but there’s not a strong centralized force within San Diego that is leading all of 
them. Oftentimes, you have wasted resources with a handful of organizations working on the same problem and 
duplicating each other’s work. ”
 According to the staffer, this type of inefficient spending is common, especially due to a lack of 
recordkeeping on different projects. They explain that oftentimes, due to the fragmented nature of the efforts, 
nonprofits, government programs and city council members all try to tackle the issue with their own “gut feeling” 
approach. However, they end up competing for resources and pursuing seemingly ineffective programs doomed 
for failure.
 One look at the SDHC’s official website confirms this. It is full of hopeful — but often abandoned — 
programs aimed at eradicating homelessness in the region like the “Campaign to End Homelessness, ” which 
occurred six years ago and boasts of securing 125 housing vouchers for chronic homeless — without deigning to 
mention that there are more vouchers to go around than available housing options.
    The city’s most recent project, “Housing Our Heroes, ” is well behind schedule despite its flashy and 
inspiring name. The campaign was announced last January by Mayor Kevin Faulconer in his annual “State of the 
City” address, a speech filled with soaring phrases like “San Diego is leading, ” “San Diego is doing” and “a better Searching for Shelter:  
San Diego’s Struggle to Mitigate Homelessness
San Diego currently has the nation’s fourth largest homeless population 
in the country. Such a high ranking has lead some to believe that San 
Diego’s strategy for combatting housing security is due for an overhaul.
by Tia Ikemoto // Associate Features EditorFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
San Diego. ” According to the speech, the initiative’s goal was to house 1,000 of San Diego’s homeless veteran 
population by the end of this past year. A glance at the SDHC’s website tells a less optimistic story, with 461 
veterans housed at last count.
 It’s results like these that speak to the staffer’s concern of resources being spread too thin. San Diego is 
not apathetic to its homeless problem; however, its current strategy of “going by gut” has resulted in programs and 
initiatives funded more out of good will than good research.
 Jessica Chamberlain, former Homeless Outreach Coordinator for the San Diego branch of the Veterans 
Affairs Healthcare System, had more to add about work within the city to end homelessness. Chamberlain 
explains that, unlike other nonprofits and private services aimed at eradicating homelessness, the Veterans Affair 
Supportable Housing program she used to be a part of is entirely centered around the Continuum of Care’s scoring 
process that weighs veterans’ needs and current risks of being homeless. Entitlement to care and a government-
issued housing voucher is dependent on a string of numbers computed by V ASH case managers using advanced 
algorithm software provided by Continuum of Care rather than a subjective assessment conducted by program 
employees. As ominous as leaving the decision to provide care to a software system may sound, Chamberlain 
insists it’s been a great strategy for prioritizing need-based veteran housing and hopes other organizations will 
start adopting it soon. She speaks appraisingly of the Continuum of Care, the federal program whose mission 
to support local efforts to end homelessness via funding and community tools, such as the computerized case 
diagnosis system, for its assistance in increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of V ASH’s cases. Chamberlain 
believes getting other organizations to adopt this software, thus pooling city and county homeless services 
together, will optimize San Diego’s resources.
 “It’s really getting the community to shift the way they do things instead of separating the issue into ‘my 
community’ and ‘our homeless, ’” said Chamberlain. “If you’re going to participate in the coordinated entry system 
we want you to put your resources into our system. ”
 This coordinated entry system is what Chamberlain envisions as the future of homeless care not just in 
San Diego, but throughout the county. She explains that if the entire region used the same form of data entry that 
V ASH uses to analyze veterans and match them up with available vouchers, then the county could more easily 
pool its resources to ensure that everyone’s needs were met. Instead of turning away homeless veterans who don’t 
score high enough on the federal software program to merit a housing voucher, they could tell them within the 
same visit which nonprofits they qualify for, and how many beds are available. A centralized care system would 
directly address Chamberlain and the staffer’s concerns that there are untapped resources floating around the 
county waiting to be utilized. However, she adds that it isn’t as easy as it sounds.
 “Old habits die hard, ” Chamberlain says, “It’s a lot of work to try and shift your program into something 
else. Some nonprofits just don’t have the time and energy to do it. They’re struggling just to perform their existing 
functions as it is. ”
 Chamberlain explains that overhauling the V ASH system to adopt the Continuum of Care’s suggested 
scoring software was a long and frustrating process, but it was worth it for long-term investment. The SDHC has 
been quick to jump on board, but most nonprofits, overwhelmed with work in their filled-to-the-brim shelters, 
are more concerned with day-to-day operations than with their future. They have yet to set aside the time it would 
take to adopt the system, and what they don’t excuse as busyness can be chalked up to stubbornness. The result 
is new programs and projects initiated each year by well-meaning police chiefs, city council members, private 
citizens and nonprofits — all of which divert resources away from each other.
 And if the archaic system of tracking the homeless countywide wasn’t enough of an obstacle, another 
huge issue is the competitiveness of the rent market. Chamberlain recounts how easy it was to secure housing 
vouchers from the V A back in 2009, following the recession. Now, as rent prices climb back up to a peak, less 
landlords are willing to accept V A vouchers, which pay a flat market rate as opposed to the hiked-up prices a 
landlord could get from the iPhone-toting yuppies filling up downtown San Diego.
 As of our phone conversation in December, Chamberlain had on record 126 homeless veterans who had 
gone through the scoring process with V ASH and held physical V ASH vouchers in their hands but were still living 
on the streets due to a lack of vacant units. She estimates that the average time it took to move after receiving a 
voucher in 2009 was about two weeks, whereas now, the majority of veterans are waiting over 90 days to secure 
housing with the vouchers. When there are more V A vouchers to be handed out than there are open spots, you 
can finally understand how flawed the system is.
         But, there is hope.
         The Continuum of Care’s software is ready for use, waiting to be adopted. The V A center and the city 
are also leading by example through a new federal philosophy introduced in 2014 called “Housing First. ” While 
previous programs have always required that those suffering from substance abuse must becoming sober before 
being allowed into a homeless shelter, the Housing First movement’s research-backed argument asserts that it is 
vital to provide people with housing first before being admitted into rehab programs. Many nonprofits, often those 
with Christian undertones, have had strict rules against substance abusers stepping foot in their shelters, despite 
the fact that they are typically the ones most likely to be suffering from chronic homelessness, defined as having 
spent at least a year living without permanent housing. However, the new federally-endorsed ideology of housing 
before drug rehabilitation has helped to get the chronically homeless off the streets.
         In addition, the city deserves recognition for the work they have done to eradicate homelessness in the 
first place. Chamberlain explained that most states handle homelessness at the county level due to the transiency 
of the homeless population. Cities are not expected to be responsible for the homeless in their boundaries and 
typically use that as an excuse to push the issue onto the county. Chamberlain was proud of the San Diego 
community for taking a stand and asserting that issues of homelessness in their city mattered to them. A huge 
amount of the work done would not be accomplished if it wasn’t important to San Diego residents. And despite 
failed projects, it would be wrong to think the city is apathetic to its large homeless population.
         Just this past month, Mayor Faulconer hired public relations and communications specialist Stacie 
Spector to orchestrate a massive overhaul of the homeless care system across San Diego at the various levels of 
governance. Whereas Chamberlain bemoaned stubborn programs refusing to get on board with the Continuum 
of Care, Spector’s sole job responsibility will be updating the infrastructure of San Diego, ensuring its ability to 
serve the homeless and to work with nonprofits, private companies, landlords and officials at the city, county, state 
and federal levels to create a universal system that has never been seen before. If successful, Spector’s work will be 
looked at by other cities as a model of homeless care and rehabilitation, a refreshing position to be in after years 
of criticism.
Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD GuardianTia  Ikemoto  tikemoto@ucsd.eduOde to Oaths:  A Eulogy
by Jocelyn Yang // Staff Writer
Thank you all for coming out tonight. 
Just as this year comes to a close, so too we close the casket on past 
resolutions never achieved. This one goes out to promises unkept, letters 
unwritten, visits unmade and goals forgotten. 
To the thinning wallet and starving bank account: you poor, malnourished 
souls have suffered throughout the gift-giving season. Y our hunger and 
emptiness deserve to be prioritized, and our frugality of 2017 will soon       
feed you.
To our motivation for the past school year: our subscription to you was 
strong, but our pledge to the online TV show streaming service was stronger. 
To those agreements to hang out: your life was short-lived, only lasting as 
long as the length of the conversation at hand. No matter your sincerity or 
half-heartedness, we wish you well. We should’ve really caught up over some 
coffee together!
To the sweetest muffin top: sincerest apologies for your loss — or lack 
thereof. We couldn’t bear to lose you or your siblings; we had to keep you by 
our side, on our thighs and under our chins. Y ou have all been loyal, even 
throughout the course of that gym membership, but we do hope that your 
time comes soon enough. 
And to any other commitments we make in the future: we pray you live a 
life full and resolute. 
A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKEND
Resolute in Resolutions
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
Annually, we make promises to improve ourselves, only to see those promises die down by the 
next week. Resolutions are great; executing them, on the other hand…
So through personal trial and error, read on for alternatives to the most infamous, and most unkept, 
resolutions we make. 
If you are aiming for a target weight —
Promised too many times and broken even more times, this resolution never seems to stick around 
(unlike those pounds). It doesn’t matter what kale-infused diet, pilates-cardio hybrid workout routine 
or “fitspo” quote set as a phone wallpaper is tried — by Jan. 20, it’ s typically back to pretzel over carrot 
sticks, Netflix over Nike. Now, this doesn’t insinuate a be all, end all universality to this theorem, but 
given general trends and personal (failed) attempts, this resolution is far more idealistically broad than 
given credit for. 
Alternative resolution — specify goals, not numbers.
It might be easier to sign up for the Triton 5K than trying to radically change your perspective on 
food, exercise and overall lifestyle all at once. In a sense, this better accommodates the UCSD mindset; 
think of the 5K as the final, morning trial runs as readings you do before class and evenings at RIMAC 
as those essays you write the night before. And unlike group projects, signing up for a 5K as a group with 
apartment-mates or co-workers actually legitimizes the saying, “the more, the merrier. ” 
If you are looking to beef up that bank account —
Y et another trending (but difficult to manage) resolution, a stable savings account is always longed 
for, but never quite attainable. Think: savings account is Rihanna and the college student paying for 
monthly rent, quarterly tuition, weekly groceries and unread textbooks is Drake — enamored but 
unrealistic, and unfortunately dodged. It’ s hard enough when the minimum wage job and unpaid 
internship barely covers survival; but to start up a savings account, knowing you have cash to spend yet 
unable to touch? No thanks. 
 Alternative resolution — know what to cut.
Adding to the account (or heck, even creating one) is only as effective as knowing what to subtract 
from what is already spent. Realistically, a good portion of the paycheck does go to the “I need to eat 
something and sleep somewhere” fund, but do you need that grande latte with extra caramel every 
morning? Granted, the “what is going on with 2016, I need to stress eat a Sprinkles cupcake” can 
be warranted, but know what can be realistically eliminated from your daily spendings and what is 
financially feasible. Adopting a new spending practice might be more practical for our current life stage 
and better prepare us for building that side account from the bottom up. 
If you are promising to spend more time with family —
Maybe not one of the top ten most sought-after resolutions to make, or perhaps the permission slip 
your mom made you sign before coming back to school after break; nevertheless, this is another tried-
and-failed resolution for many. Especially if you live far away, need to navigate tricky family dynamics or 
have a demanding schedule that makes the weekend trip impossible. 
Alternative resolution — quality time with quality people.
So maybe coming home bi-weekly to appreciate your aunt’ s collection of teacups and pent up 
commentary about your weight isn’t what you quite had in mind. Know what your boundaries are, what 
you are mentally and emotionally capable of, and work up from there. Spend your time with people you 
know will fill, rather than drain, you of joy — and if happens to be your mom, do it; she birthed you, 
yes? But if not, that’s okay too. (Although the occasional phone call to those who care wouldn’t hurt.)
If you are determined to “live in the moment” —
Every year, there are those of us (guilty) who strive to embody the effortlessly carefree, cool LA 
persona. This inevitably perpetuates the unachievable equilibrium of attempting to be spontaneous 
enough to Instagram a good night without the aftermath of 10 shots of vodka. Eventually, this can 
either be a one-way ticket to a regret-filled Snapchat story or falling back into a routine, because being 
effortlessly carefree is much harder than previously thought. 
Alternative resolution — know when to say yes and no. 
So instead of trying to be a trope that only 0.0001 percent of the population has perfectly 
manipulated, maybe living in the moment hasn’t been a mindset to adopt but rather evolved into a 
lifestyle to be bought. Simply promise yourself to genuinely say yes to something you want to do and no 
to something you don’t. Carpe diem the hell out of an adventurous night out or a wild night in. 
If you are planning on travelling the world —
So you read “Eat, Pray, Love” and are ready to spend the rest of 2017 globetrotting to undiscovered 
or overpopulated countries looking to find good food, spiritual reawakening and unnecessary romance; 
only to realize that you’re a student in San Diego, looking instead to find cheap bars, GPA revival and a 
roommate who will wake you up for that 8 a.m. Reality hurts, kids. 
Alternative resolution — explore existing spaces.
Remember that not all of us can be Elizabeth Gilbert. Y ou live in San Diego. There’ s so much to see 
and do in this southern California gem, without the need to board a plane. Get a glimpse of the Global 
in City Heights, swap out touristy Potato Chip for breathtaking Cowles Mountain, read books and sip 
cappuccinos like a local on Adams Avenue and learn to surf out at Black’ s Beach. With cheap tacos in 
Chula Vista (not to mention Tijuana only being a drive away) and poetry slams down in North Park, 
make San Diego your city to fall in love with. 
If you are finally taking that step to stop procrastinating —
Impossible, memes exist for a reason.
Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD GuardianIllustration by Michi Sora // UCSD GuardianLIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
New Year, Better Me: The Art of Making 
and Keeping Resolutions 
by Annika Olives // Staff Writer
As the clock tolls midnight on Jan. 1, there seems to be a special magic in the 
air. Everyone is a bit lighter on their feet, metaphorically leaving the bad memories 
of the past year behind, to welcome the new year with open arms and trending   
Twitter hashtags. 
The promise of a shiny new year is a good motivator, and it has been for 
thousands of years. 
For the Babylonians, the new year was marked by the crowning of a new king 
and the reaffirmation of worship to their gods — they believed that, if they failed 
to keep their promises to the gods, they would fall out of good favor. Later, around 
46 B.C., Romans made sacrifices to their gods and introduced a more social aspect 
to the occasion with gift-giving, and Methodists spent New Y ear’s Eve praying 
and promising good behavior. Today, resolution-making has turned into a young 
person’s game: In 2012, a majority of people aged 45 or younger said that they were 
likely to make a new year’s resolution, while less than a third of people aged 45 or 
older said they were to do the same. Additionally, not keeping a resolution does             
not have the same dramatic outcome as it would in a Babylonian’s mind, and 
resolutions in general are more focused on bettering ourselves for intrinsic reasons 
rather than extrinsic. 
While not a perfect indicator, iQuanti, a marketing company, used Google search 
terms to identify a list of the most popular resolutions for 2017. “Live life to the 
fullest” was third with almost 19 million searches from January 2016 to October 
2016, and “get organized” was second with over 33 million. Not surprisingly, 
“get healthy” was first on the list, after having been searched a whopping                                          
62,776,640 times. 
What was surprising, however, was that people were more specific in how they 
were going to “get healthy. ” “Gym” and other fitness-related terms saw a significant 
increase in searches, and, in general, Google searches were more direct than in 
previous years. Current research reveals that 80 percent of resolutions fail before 
the end of the year, but this means that people are starting to take their resolutions 
more seriously, at least at the start. 
Setting specific goals is a way to increase the success rate in keeping a resolution. 
Experts suggest making small, manageable goals that are easily accomplishable with 
a bit of work. 
Tracking progress, either by writing it down or updating others, also makes 
people more accountable. And, like most things, one must adapt their mindset 
before they can fully commit to their actions. 
Whatever your resolutions for 2017 are, there is no doubt that the season will 
bring about new promises and more gym memberships. Only time will tell whether 
those promises are temporary or year-long. Illustration by Michi Sora // UCSD Guardian
Illustration by April Gau // UCSD Guardian10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A & E
Films have the power to 
inspire, excite and move an 
audience. But without the 
near certainty of being lucrative, a 
screenplay wouldn’t make it past the 
door of a Hollywood executive. All of 
Hollywood’s recent blockbusters were 
crafted from start to finish with one 
goal in mind: to generate the highest 
return on investment. So if you are ever 
puzzled by the otherwise inexplicable 
trends of major blockbusters, simply 
follow the money. One of these trends 
is the increased incorporation of 
China as a setting, whether primary 
or minor, for Hollywood films. China 
has experienced rapid economic 
growth and its importance as an 
international political actor continues 
to grow, but Hollywood’s only interest 
in China is its growing film market. 
The expansion of the Chinese middle 
class, as well as an astounding increase 
in movie infrastructure has fueled this 
growth. In 2014 alone, China installed 
over 8,000 screens, edging its way 
toward surpassing the United States’ total. With a population four times the 
size of the United States, the Chinese 
market, as well as its influence on 
Hollywood, will continue to grow.
It is unsurprising, therefore, that 
Hollywood producers want to indulge 
in the growth of the Chinese market 
for films. Having their films succeed 
in the Chinese market could add 
millions to a studio’s balance sheet, so 
the stakes for Hollywood’s producers 
couldn’t be higher. This creates an 
incentive to add Chinese flair to a 
film with international box-office 
potential. However, American film 
producers face a roadblock when it 
comes to raking in Chinese box office 
renminbi: China’s own government. 
For the same reason that Google 
and Facebook are banned in China, 
Hollywood films do not have easy 
access to the Chinese market. Not 
only does China have a quota on 
the number of foreign films that it 
imports, which was 34 last year, it also 
has strict censorship policies. 
Appeasing the Chinese censors may be a small creative price 
to pay, but the prize is too big to 
pass up. American filmmakers 
have motivation to satisfy Chinese 
regulators, even if that means cutting 
scenes or themes which might not 
show China in the best light. The 2012 
film “Skyfall, ” for example, featured 
a scene in which James Bond kills a 
Chinese security guard, and regulators 
could not tolerate the depiction of 
a Chinese citizen being killed by a 
foreigner. Given the censors’ eagle 
eyes for anything unflattering to 
China, studios are vigilant towards 
anything that could potentially be 
rejected for social or political reasons. 
And because appeasing regulators 
is often difficult and unpredictable, 
American filmmakers self-censor 
scenes, dialogue, images and themes 
they fear will jeopardize their film’s 
chance of receiving approval. 
China’s most significant influence 
on Hollywood, however, comes from 
its domestic audience. Once a film 
gets past the censors and the strict quota, its main job, like any film, is to 
appease the audience. This, of course, 
involves more than a scene omission, 
but an entire narrative makeup, one 
which will please both American 
and Chinese moviegoers. American 
filmmakers attempt to entice Chinese 
audiences by including popular 
Chinese locations and actors in their 
films. Take the 2013 film, “Gravity, ” 
for instance: A stranded astronaut 
saves herself by utilizing an advanced 
Chinese space station and lands on 
Earth in a Chinese space capsule. 
American audiences didn’t seem to 
mind, and the film went on to gross 
$71 million in China. 
As the Chinese film industry 
grows, so does the number of 
co-productions between Chinese and 
American studios. The great benefit 
of co-productions is that they allow 
a film to bypass the quota and enter 
the Chinese market. As you may have 
guessed, however, co-productions 
involve more than just sharing the 
cost of production. The studio behind the movie “Looper, ” for example, was 
offered a co-production deal with 
China’s DMG Entertainment on the 
condition that a scene originally 
intended to take place in Paris be 
switched to Shanghai. And because 
of the financial incentives of such 
co-production agreements, American 
audiences can expect to see more and 
more of China’s influence, whether it 
be in setting, actors or theme. 
While the Chinese import 
quota and strict censorship present 
a challenge to Hollywood studios, 
China is a growing, lucrative market 
that will further attract producers 
and filmmakers, especially as China 
gradually increases its import 
quota over time. And in this age of 
Hollywood’s creative coma, any bit 
of novelty can be appreciated, even 
that driven by financial incentives and 
strict Chinese censorship laws. 
—   Naft ali   Burak ovsky
 Associate A&E Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF MGM
When Annette Bening, 
with an eerie steadiness, 
narrates in the beginning 
of the film, “In 1999, I will die of 
lung cancer, ” it is immediately clear 
that writer and director Mike Mills is 
not pursuing drama by any ordinary 
means. Constructed in a series of 
vignettes, Mills’ exploration of human 
relationships prioritizes characters over 
plot and tracks their connections to the 
cultural environment.  
During the summer of 1979 in 
Santa Barbara, chain-smoking single 
mother Dorothea (Annette Bening) 
lives in a fixer-upper boarding house 
with her 15-year-old son Jamie (Lucas 
Jade Zumann). Will (Billy Crudup), 
an ex-hippie craftsman and solitary 
lost soul, helps Dorothea renovate in 
exchange for a place to live. Dorothea 
increasingly struggles to understand Jamie as he grapples with the trials 
of adolescence, so she enlists Abbie 
(Greta Gerwig), a tenant recovering 
from cancer and Julie (Elle Fanning), 
a neighbor two years Jamie’s senior, 
to help raise him. Though Jamie’s 
maturation constitutes the majority of 
the narrative, the film’ s true focus is the 
women who influence and shape him. 
Jamie’ s situation is the impetus for the 
three women’s individual journeys.
Narration is interspersed throughout 
and alternates between Dorothea 
and Jamie’s perspectives, revealing 
information about the characters 
as they struggle to find their place in 
1979’ s changing tides. Jamie and Abbie 
are helpless to the impending demise 
of punk rock, and Julie’s developing 
worldliness is suppressed by Santa 
Barbara’ s sleepy climate. Will, apathetic 
and abandoned by ‘60s counterculture, drifts without purpose. Dorothea, a child 
of the Depression, feels disconnected 
from the ‘70s. Jimmy Carter’ s Crisis of 
Confidence speech screens in Dorothea’ s 
living room, serving as an emblem of 
the aimlessness and disunity plaguing 
their generations.
Mills’ background in graphic design 
and music video is apparent in the film’ s 
portrait-like cinematography. The softly 
lit opening shot of Dorothea’s Ford 
Galaxy erupting in a haze of orange 
flames in a parking lot, captured from 
an unmoving one-point perspective, 
is striking. Characters’ narrations are 
accompanied by archival images like 
Ingrid Bergman with Humphrey Bogart 
and The Talking Heads in concert from 
Jamie and Dorothea’ s respective eras. 
One at a time, Abbie’ s autobiographical 
polaroids are displayed on the full 
screen while new wave tunes blare, and moments of tension are embellished by 
muted, reverberating synth. 
The attention to detail and sensory 
experience, though distinct and alluring, 
detracts from the film’ s potential to excite 
emotion in viewers. It’ s almost as if in an 
effort to avoid overripe sentimentality, 
Mills overcorrected and created a walk-
through historical exhibit. The result is 
more a pastiche of cultural and artistic 
memorabilia than a cohesive narrative 
with an emotional arc. 
Several relationship dynamics 
and character attributes, including 
Abbie’s sisterly advice for Jamie and 
Julie’ s reading habits, are pulled from 
Mills’ own experiences. Perhaps his 
connections to the story explain his 
specificity and precious handling 
of his characters. His previous work, 
“Beginners, ” was an effort by Mills to 
understand his father through art. “20th Century W omen” is a similarly personal 
examination of his mother’ s legacy. 
Bening brilliantly embodies the 
humanity that the screenplay strives for. 
She embraces Dorothea’ s contradictions 
with grace, effortlessly shifting from 
easygoing and laidback to uptight and 
defensive — all with a sense of humor 
and impeccable timing. Dorothea is 
inherently curious about others yet 
intensely guarded. Her unexplained 
polarities generate a mystique that 
reflects Mills’s realist approach to 
filmmaking.
Though sometimes disjointed, 
“20th Century W omen” is lively and 
memorable thanks to its thoughtfully 
crafted characters.
—   Ma y a Kleiman
 Contributing WriterMike Mills’ unconventional approach to storytelling produces a refreshingly honest work rich with cultural reference and character insight.
FILM  REVIEW
20th centur y woman
PHOTO COURTESY OF LAUNCHING FILMS
Director   Mike Mills
Starring Annette Bening, Elle Fanning, Greta Gerwig, Billy Crudup 
Release Date   December 28
Rated   RB-How Chinese  
Policies are 
Changing 
Holl ywoodA & E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
 
h^ ŚĂƐ ĂŶ ŝŶƚĞƌŶƐŚŝƉ ĨŽƌ ǇŽƵ ! 
Public Service, ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ, Education, ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ , 
Health, /ŵŵŝŐƌĂƟŽŶ , International, :ŽƵƌŶĂůŝƐŵ , 
Law, >ĞŐŝƐůĂƚƵƌĞ , Local Government, DĞĚŝĂ, NonͲ
Profit  
&Žƌ ŵŽƌĞ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƟŽŶ͕ ƉůĞĂƐĞ ǀŝƐŝƚ  
ǁǁǁ͘ƵĐĐƐ͘ƵĐĚĂǀŝƐ͘ĞĚ͘  
“Collateral Beauty” 
carries a weighty 
name for a film that 
lacks the dramatic punch it tries 
to create. The overt attempts at 
sentimentality, paired with its self-
satisfaction, created an unbearable 
movie. The film’s saving grace is 
Will Smith’s ability to deliver 
a heartrending performance 
regardless of the schmaltz in the 
dialogue, premise and plot.
Will Smith plays Howard, an 
enigmatic boss and major share -
holder of a successful ad agency in 
Manhattan. Howard’s pseudo-deep 
philosophy behind the company’s 
success is “find their why. ” It is his 
belief that everything can be sold on 
people’s want for love, fear of death 
and desire for more time. Quick cut to three years and one impressive 
domino structure later, Howard has 
lost his six-year-old child, his will to 
function and his “why. ”
Kate Winslet, Michael Pena 
and Edward Norton play Howard’s 
partners, who are supposedly con -
cerned with Howard’s mental state 
but mostly the declining state of 
business. This particular section of 
the film’s premise is hard to swal -
low. Pena, Winslet and Norton hire 
actors to convince their lawyers, and 
potentially Howard, that Howard is 
unfit to be a major shareholder. The 
evidence isn’t shared with a psychia -
trist or  anyone with the credentials 
to help Howard, they simply turn 
Howard loose after showing him he 
is crazy.
The trio keeps saying they hired the actors for Howard’s welfare, and 
he does change his ways. However, 
it never feels like his interactions 
with Love (Keira Knightley), Death 
(Helen Mirren) and Time (Jacob 
Latimore) are the cause of the 
change. The first time Love, Death, 
and Time bump into Howard, he 
questions his own sanity, but it 
doesn’t cause personal growth. It 
is only after his second encoun -
ter with the abstractions that his 
cathartic reaction aids his character          
development.
The conclusion of Howard’s 
plot should be an emotional release 
since it is the main storyline, but 
it isn’t. Howard’s road to accep -
tance and recovery occupy the fore -
ground for most of the film, but the 
collateral characters have equally compelling hardships they are try -
ing to work through — hardships 
that need advice from Love, Death 
and Time. For example, Howard’s 
partner Whit went through an ugly 
divorce and is trying to win back 
the love of his daughter. By the 
end of the film, through his lim -
ited dialogue with Love, he is able 
to start rebuilding that relationship 
with his daughter. The conclusion of 
the secondary characters’ storylines 
creates a greater emotional release               
then Howard’s.
With every other aspect of the 
film clearly explained, predictable 
and lacking the subtlety for personal 
interpretation and deeper meaning, 
the absence of explanation for what 
the collateral beauty in the film is supposed to be is odd. The film had 
the time to carefully explain the 
symbolism and meaning in love, 
death, time and grief but not the 
title of the film. 
Explanation was placed where it 
wasn’t needed to ensure viewers left 
with only one interpretation of the 
film. It didn’t just lead the horse to 
water — the film made it drink. The 
greeting card platitudes from the 
abstractions to Howard don’t carry 
life-altering weight, and their advice 
to the three friends sounds more 
like advice they could get from any 
self-help novel . 
—   Rachel Novotny
 Senior Staff WriterWhile billed as a heartfelt holiday movie with an all-star cast, the movie descends into the stuff that fills bargain bins.
FILM  REVIEW
Colla teral Beauty
PHOTO COURTESY OF NEW LINE CINEMA
Director   David Frankel
Starring Will Smith, Edward Norton, Kate Winslet 
Release Date   December 16
Rated   PG-13C-
ucsdguardian.orgVisit us a t12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A & E
DAY OF SERVICE PARADE
Help build garden beds, 
paint murals, and relevel 
books for Oneonta 
Elementary. FREE 
transportation, lunch,
and t-shirt! Parade starts at 2:00 p.m. 
Staging will begin at 1:15 p.m.
on the bayside of the County 
Administration Building located 
on Harbor Drive along the 
Embarcadero.CEDAR ST.GRAPE ST.HAWTHORN ST.
ASH ST.
BROADWAY
G STREET
HARBOR DRIVE
PARADE ROUTE STAGING AREAPARADE ROUTE MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
PARADE &
DAY OF SERVICE
SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 2017
The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Parade and Day of Service Committee would 
like to invite you to join UC San Diego in a campus tradition of serving our 
local community and marching in the 37th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Parade in celebration of the principles and ideals of Dr. King. This is a great 
activity to do with a department or your family!
Register at mlkday.ucsd.eduFreedom
Through
EducationCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
Freedom
Through
Education
MLK, JR. PARADE &
DAY OF SERVICE
MORE INFO & REGISTER AT MLKDAY.UCSD.EDUTahrirWEEKTHIS
at UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 9 - JAN 15
EVENT
HIGHLIGHT
THU 1/12 • pm
LOFT, PC
2017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 1.09 WED1.11SUN1.15 2pm
THU1.12
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE1.10
EDUCATIONCORPS WINTER 2017 
INFO SESSION - MULTIPLE 
LOCATIONS
Interested in tutoring K-12 students at 
underprivileged schools in the San Diego area? 
Come to one of the EducationCorps info sessions 
and learn about the opportunities we offer! 
1/9-1/12 @ PC: Bear Room 1/13 @SSC Room 
350. Contact: educationcorps@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Camera Lucida is a chamber music 
collaboration between four musicians with 
diverse backgrounds. Created by a generous gift 
from the Sam B. Ersan Chamber Music Fund, 
Camera Lucida is a unique project matching 
masterpieces of the chamber music repertoire 
with a group of world-class instrumentalists 
who happen to call San Diego home.For its third 
concert of the 2016-17 season, Camera Lucida's 
program will include: Fairy Tale Pictures for Viola 
and Piano, Op. 113 (1851) by Robert Schuman 
Violin Sonata in d minor, Opus 75 (1885) by 
Camille Saint-Saens Trio for Clarinet, Cello and 
Piano, Opus 120 (1923) by Gabriel Faur No late 
seating. Contact: mroos@ucsd.eduEDUCATIONCORPS WINTER 
2017 INFO SESSION - MULTIPLE 
LOCATIONS
Interested in tutoring K-12 students at 
underprivileged schools in the San Diego 
area? Come to one of the EducationCorps info 
sessions and learn about the opportunities we 
offer! 1/9-1/12 @ PC: Bear Room 1/13 @SSC 
Room 350
Contact: educationcorps@ucsd.edu11am
ILEAD REGISTRATION DRIVE - 
LIBRARY WALK SPACE 1995
Have you heard of iLead but do not know where 
to start? Visit our table on Library Walk Space 
1995 for more information on how to sign up! 
iLead provides students with the flexibility to 
choose workshop sessions on various 
communication and leadership topics that 
align with your individual interests and 
schedule. Attend workshops and collect 10 
stamps to complete the program! Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
1pm
EDUCATIONCORPS WINTER 
2017 INFO SESSION
Interested in tutoring K-12 students at 
underprivileged schools in the San Diego area? 
Come to one of the EducationCorps info 
sessions and learn about the opportunities we 
offer! 1/9-1/12 @ PC: Bear Room 1/13 @SSC 
Room 350
SAT1.14
8pm
LEA DELARIA AT ARTPOWER - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
UCSD Student: $20. Lea DeLaria seems to have 
achieved overnight stardom with her SAG 
Award -winning stand-out role as Carrie “Big 
Boo” Black in the Netflix hit series Orange is the 
New Black. However, her multifaceted career as 
a comedian, actress, and jazz musician has in 
fact spanned decades. She was the featured 
vocalist at the 50th anniversary of the Newport 
Jazz Festival, and has performed in some of the 
most prestigious houses in the world, including 
Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, the Chicago 
Symphony, Hollywood Bowl, the Royal Albert 
Hall, and the Sydney Opera House. For her 
ArtPower debut, DeLaria will treat the audience 
to her beautiful vocal jazz styling and witty 
commentary. Expect vocal and comedic 
fireworks. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduEDUCATIONCORPS WINTER 2017 
INFO SESSION
Interested in tutoring K-12 students at 
underprivileged schools in the San Diego area? 
Come to one of the EducationCorps info sessions 
and learn about the opportunities we offer! 
1/9-1/12 @ PC: Bear Room 1/13 @SSC Room 350
3pm
FIT FEST - RIMAC
Join us for free FitLife classes, food truck, LIVE DJ, 
chair massages, "Ask the Dietician," chances to 
win amazing prizes and so much more! Contact: 
ucsdrecmarketing@gmail.com
3:30pm
UCSD EDUCATION PANEL - 
CAREN HOLTZMAN, LUZ CHUNG 
- COMUNIDAD ROOM, PC EAST
Join us on Thursday, January 12th for a panel on 
education with special guests Caren Holtzman 
and Luz Chung of the UCSD Education Studies 
department. Admission is free! This panel is held 
in association with the UCSD MLK Jr. Day Parade 
& Day of Service (mlkday.ucsd.edu) Contact: 
faantonio@ucsd.edu 8582462228
5pm
IDEAS EVENT: MACHINAL - 
CALIT2 THEATER, ATKINSON 
HALL
This performance of "MACHINAL" will be the first 
performance of 2017 in the Qualcomm Institute's 
Initiative for Digital Exploration of Arts and 
Sciences (IDEAS) series. The list of collaborators 
on the performance Will Detlefsen (director), Mary 
Glen Fredrick (actor), Grady Kestler (sound 
designer), Annie Le (designer), Steven Leffue 
(sound designer), Anna Robinson (designer), 
Brandon Rosen (lighting designer), Ph.D. student 
Kristen Tregar, Enrico Nassi (MFA actor), and 
Stephanie Del Rosso (MFA playwright). Contact: 
tstone@ucsd.edu 858-822-53075:30pm
MEET THE STUDENT REGENT - 
THE FORUM, PC EAST
Every year, one student is selected to serve as 
the Student Regent on the Board of Regents of 
the University of California. This individual, 
conjointly selected by the principal governing 
bodies of the UC system, attends all board 
meetings, maintains full voting power, and 
enjoys waived university fees whilst they serve 
as a Regents-designate and as a member of 
the Board. The position was created to ensure 
that the student voice was heard and 
represented, even at the highest level of 
administrative decision-making. On Jan. 12th, 
Student Regent Marcela Ramirez will be 
hosting an open forum to answer questions 
about both her position, as well as the brand 
new Student Advisor position. FREE RUBIO'S to 
all attendees!
Contact: aspr@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES - INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
Want to study abroad? Interested in sharing 
your language skills with others? Then come to 
LCT! The Language Conversation Tables are 
one of International House's most popular 
programs. Each quarter, students host a 
variety of languages for UC San Diego 
students, staff, faculty, and community 
members to learn and practice another 
language in a fun and casual environment. 
Language Conversation Tables are especially 
important for students who wish to study 
abroad or simply improve their language skills 
at UCSD! LCTs meet every Thursday at 6pm 
either in the Great Hall or the Asante 
classrooms! Register here: 
http://tinyurl.com/LCTWinter2017
Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.eduFRI1.13
EDUCATIONCORPS WINTER 2017 
INFO SESSION - MULTIPLE 
LOCATIONS
Interested in tutoring K-12 students at 
underprivileged schools in the San Diego area? 
Come to one of the EducationCorps info sessions 
and learn about the opportunities we offer! 
1/9-1/12 @ PC: Bear Room 1/13 @SSC Room 
350. Contact: educationcorps@ucsd.edu
SUN1.15
2pm
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. PARADE 
& DAY OF SERVICE - ONEONTA 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL & 
DOWNTOWN SAN DIEGO
Join UC San Diego students, staff, and faculty 
members for a day of community service at 
Oneonta Elementary School in South Bay San 
Diego! Afterwards, join UC San Diego's 
Chancellor Khosla, students, staff, faculty and 
alumni as we march in the 37th Annual Martin 
Luther King Jr. Parade in downtown San Diego - 
Harbor Drive/Embarcadero. This campus tradition 
is free and open to all. Day of Service: A bus will 
provide transportation for the first 55 students 
who sign up for the Day of Service. Lunch, 
snacks, and t-shirts will also be provided to 
volunteers at no cost. Register to volunteer 
Parade: Students, staff, faculty, alumni and 
guests: You don't have to be on the buses to 
march in the parade. For directions to the parade 
please, or to reserve your space on the bus, visit 
our website. FREE snacks and transportation. 
Meet at the Sun God Parking Lot by noon.
Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.edu
JERRON
Jerron “Blind Boy ” Paxton may be one of the greatest 
multi-instrumentalists whom you have not heard of. . 
. yet. Only in his 20s, Paxton has an eerie ability to 
transform traditional blues, folk, country, and jazz 
into the here and now. He additionally mesmerizes 
audiences with his humor and storytelling. A 
world-class talent and a uniquely colorful character, 
he is “virtually the only music-maker of his 
generation ” playing guitar, banjo, piano, and violin, 
among other instruments , to fully assimilate the 
blues idiom of the 1920s and 30s . (Wall Street 
Journal). UCSD Student: $914 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Storage container
4. In the center
9. Mystery writer’s award
14. Team managed by Tommy 
Lasorda
15. Farewell in France
16. Enrico’s portrayer Lanza
17. “Cool!”
18. Atlantic City casino mogul
20. Snail follower?
22. Pennsylvania port
23. Bumbler
24. Tumbler
27. Read
30. Salon job
31. Too pooped to participate
32. Apple pie’s partner?
35. Put one’s foot down
37. Ross or Rigg
40. “Defence of Fort McHenry” poet
44. Pianist Claudio
45. Island in the Hebrides
46. Ram’s mate
47. Actor Montgomery
50. They call out “Out!”
52. Serbia neighbor
54. Saw red
58. Revolution at Le Mans
59. Agitated state
61. Time long past
62. Betty Comden’s partner in  
songwriting
67. Republicans, for short
68. Grinding tooth
69. Sharif and Epps
70. Commotion
71. Like some winter weather
72. Steamy relaxant
73. Court dividerDown
1. Myanmar, formerly
2. Singer Hayes
3. As low as you can go
4. Off-the-wall
5. Swear words?
6. Eating areas
7. Scorch
8. Dutch export
9. CPR giver
10. ___ es Salaam
11. Prospector’s start-up costs
12. Songstress Mann
13. Lassoed
19. “___ Purple”
21. Home base?
25. Gravy base?
26. Opposed to
28. Bureaucratic stumbling block
29. Condo, for example
32. Curator’s deg.
33. Bobby on the ice
34. Venetian voyager
36. Chi-omega go-between
38. Common city name starter
39. Vote of confidence
41. Simba’s mate in “The Lion King”
42. Big name in underwater explora -
tion
43. “It’s ___” (treater’s phrase)
48. Angle
49. Dances with dips
51. Home for Babe
52. Bucks
53. Household inspection target
55. Paul from down under
56. Eat away
57. One end of the line
60. “___ La Douce”
63. Order’s partner
64. Snoop
65. Mod ending?
66. Gov’t code breakersHOUSING
$950 - Carmel Valley. Resort style living 
in a gated community with golf,tennis,2 
heated pools,2 jacuzzis, workout room, 
basketball courts, and hiking/biking trails. 
Looking for a female student to rent a fully 
furnished bedroom in this beautiful 5-bed -
room 3-bath house. Bathroom shared with 
another UCSD female graduate student. 
Rent includes utilities, Wifi, use of all ameni -
ties, washer/dryer, maid service and park -
ing. Located near I-5 and Hwy 56, about 3 
miles from the beach. Must love dogs. Visit 
ucsd.uloop.com. Listing ID: 517626011
$850 - Carmel Valley. Bedroom with shared 
bathroom available in quaint suburban 
Carmel Valley neighborhood. Two small 
dogs live at the residence. There is a large 
outdoor patio area with room for a gar -
den. Kitchen and community areas shared. 
Professional and clean female roommates 
looking for respectful housemate. Visit 
ucsd.uloop.com. Listing ID: 515694986
$1000 - UTC. Seeking female UCSD stu -
dents. We are a senior couple that travels 
often renting 3 furnished rooms in our 
corner unit townhouse in the heart of 
UTC. Rooms are furnished with a shared 
bathroom with other female students. 
Parking onsite in our private driveway. 
Newly remodeled fully equipped spa -
cious kitchen. Walking distance to UCSD 
bus lines, grocery store, pharmacy, post 
office, resteraunts and UTC mall. Utilities 
included. Washer dryer on property. Two 
tennis courts, basketball court, and swim -
ming pools/jacuzzi. Seeking responsible 
and respectful UCSD female students. Only 
for UCSD students no exceptions. IF you 
are looking for a quiet and safe environ -
ment to study this is for you! No drugs, No 
smoking, No pets, no parties allowed.  We 
have had UCSD students previously from 
Korea and Japan and have their references 
upon request. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. Listing 
ID: 518681806$1000 - University City. Seeking FEMALE 
graduate student, or working profession -
al to share two bedroom, very spacious, 
apartment in University City. The Master 
Bedroom is 14’ by 12’ with a 8’ by 8’ walk 
in closet. The apartment is in the most 
quiet, single family residential neighbor -
hood of University City and the apartment 
is attached to a large home where my 
86-year-old mother lives. Presently, the 
apartment is shared by my 23-year-old 
nephew who is rarely home, and who is 
in the process of moving out by summer, 
at which time we may opt to leave the 
second room unoccupied.  The price is 
reduced BECAUSE we need to select an 
individual who will agree to no sleepovers 
with significant others. We need someone 
who is a nonsmoker and non drinker, and, 
absolutely, no partiers. We want our Mother 
to not be disturbed by lots of activity, SO 
WE ARE SEEKING A QUIET INDIVIDUAL WHO 
will appreciate the super large space, as 
well as the peaceful nature of the environ -
ment. Please, respond to this ad ONLY if 
this desire for a quiet place is acceptable. 
Parking is plentiful. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. 
Listing ID: 514418823
JOBS
Camp Echo. IMPORTANT: Applicants MUST 
be available June 9th - August 16th. Camp 
Echo’s summer photographers help us to 
take 20,000 + pictures throughout the sum -
mer of our campers and staff. We are look -
ing for an individual with great ability as a 
photographer, but someone who will also 
be a nice fit for our camp environment. In 
addition to walking around camp taking 
photos each day, our photographer will be 
responsible for uploading to our website 
each day for parents to view.  Our camp 
photographer will also be responsible for 
our End of Season Categorization -- orga -
nizing the best photos from the summer for 
year-round use. Salary is determined based 
on experience. Room + Board is included 
for full summer. Playstation 3 with 5 Games  - $75. Selling my used Playstation. With Call 
of Duty World at War, Skate 3, UFC 3, Mafia 
2 and Call of Duty Ghost. Comes with three 
controllers. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. Listing ID: 
517773678
BABYSITTER - $20/hour. Nikoo Chitayat. I 
have 3 children ages 11-13 and am look -
ing for a babysitter to assist with pick up 
and drop off from school and activities; 
assist children to complete homework and 
prepare for tests. Must have references 
and clean driving record and a car in good 
condition. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. Listing ID: 
519609850
TOUR GUIDE - $50/hour. Outgoing and 
confident guides required with an excellent 
all round knowledge of the campus to take 
High School students on a Campus Tour. 
These Tours are generally around 60-90 
minutes and require an informative guide 
to housing, dining and social clubs. Groups 
are generally between 20-40 High School 
students and include adult chaperones. 
Guides should be aware of student engage -
ment and have the flexibility to tailor the 
tour to the requirements of the students/
chaperones. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. Listing 
ID: 519609850
FOR SALE
2005 Volkswagen Golf - $3,500 OBO. * 
Second Owner * Clean title * Registration 
valid until Feb 2017 * LOW MILEAGE: 
137000 miles only * Manual transmission (5 
speed) * 4 Doors * Cruise Control * New bat -
tery (changed 2 months ago) * Spare Tire 
under the trunk * Radio with CD player and 
USB connector * SMOG checked (2 weeks) 
* Oil changed (2 weeks) * In excellent con -
dition, runs greatglass doors. Perfect for 
television. Like new. Visit ucsd.uloop.com. 
Call/text me at 61nine 7o1 o836
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
/tritonfoodpantryTritons Stumble In Regular Season Start
Men’s VolleyballPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
While we’ve all been off in our various parts of the world resting up for 
the start of a new quarter, the UCSD men’s volleyball team has been hard at 
work starting off its 2017 season, with aspirations of wiping off the stink of its 
disappointing 5–23 campaign from just a year ago. 
And in UCSD’s exhibition game against University of Manitoba, the Tritons 
were looking like they were on the upswing. With the help of junior opposite 
Tanner Syftestad’s nine kills and a team leading 12.5 points, the Tritons fought 
their way to a decisive 3–0 victory against the Bisons — showing flashes of a 
team that knew how to win along the way.
But unfortunately for UCSD, the Tritons found themselves in more familiar 
territory once games started counting. Facing the No. 8 UC Irvine is no simple 
task, and the team ended up on the other end of a three game sweep, losing 
each set by a greater margin than the last. Nonetheless, freshman outside hitter 
Devin Pontigon led the teams in kills and points, with nine and 9.5, respectively. 
Their fortunes didn’t improve in their home opener either. Despite a 25–23 
victory over Grand Canyon in the second set to make the match an even 
1–1, the Tritons were unable to build on their momentum, as the Antelopes 
bounced back with a statement-making 25–16 victory over the Tritons in the 
third set. Even though the Tritons made it close in the final set of the night, they 
eventually fell 1–3. On the bright side, Pontigon had another strong night with 
14 kills and 17.5 points, leading the team in both categories. 
As it stands, the Tritons are 0–2 overall and 0–1 in conference. Next up, the 
team will travel to face UC Santa Barbara on Friday, Jan. 13 at 7 p.m.  
ucsdguardian.orgVisit us a tSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 9, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SINCE YOU'VE 
  BEEN GONE
The UCSD Guardian Sports ﬁlls you in on what you missed while you 
were gone on winter break. Men’s Basketball
Tritons Improve to 8-0 in Conference Play
The UC San Diego men’s basketball team has had a brilliant start 
to the regular season, going 8–0 in California Collegiate Athletic 
Conference play and boosting its overall record to 13–2, with its last 
defeat coming on Dec. 12 versus Western Washington University. In 
the month of December, UCSD took full advantage of its home court 
in a six-game stretch of home games, with its only loss coming at the 
hands of the aforementioned Western Washington. However, during 
the homestand, the Tritons grinded out victories against a 17th-ranked 
Chico State and a solid Cal State Dominguez Hills team. 
As the Tritons welcomed the new year, they also began and are 
in the midst of a four-game road trip. Their last two meetings have 
come against Cal State Monterey Bay and Cal State East Bay, both 
surprisingly narrow victories given the two teams’ below .500 record in                                                                 
conference play. 
Moreover, UCSD’s latest victories have helped maintain their 15th 
national ranking, seven spots better than their 22nd ranking at the 
beginning of December. Additionally, their 8-0 conference record has 
them atop of the CCAA standings with San Francisco State and Chico 
State right behind with only one loss on the season (7–1). 
With the standings as they are, Friday night’s match-up versus San 
Francisco State will have an extra importance and will be a real road 
test for the Tritons. With a win, they can pull away in the conference 
standings and make a statement to the rest of the conference.
During the team’s current six-game win streak, senior guard Adam 
Klie has led the way in the scoring department with an average of 16 
points along with seven rebounds. Another standout Triton, sophomore 
center Chris Hansen, has averaged 12.8 points and 6.5 rebounds during 
the six games, including a 24-point and seven-rebound performance 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills in December.
Klie and Hansen both will lead the way on Friday, Jan. 13 when 
UCSD takes on San Francisco State followed by another tough matchup 
on Saturday against Sonoma State to end the road trip. The results of 
these two games can potentially shake up the conference standings; 
therefore, the Tritons need to play some of their best basketball in the 
coming games. Both games are set for a 7:30 p.m. tip-off. Tritons Go Perfect Over Winter Recess and Boast Seven Game Win Streak
The UCSD women’s basketball team has a busy 
winter break, playing six games and winning all 
of them. Having not lost a game since Nov. 29, 
the Tritons are now 11–3 overall and 7–1 in the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association. 
On Dec. 16, the Tritons handily beat Cal State 
Bernardino 82–48. The Tritons only allowed the 
Coyotes to slip into the lead once early on. Senior 
forward Cassie MacLeod led UCSD in points scored 
with 20; she shot an amazing 9-for-10 in field 
goals. Two other Tritons, sophomore guard Marcella 
Hughes and redshirt freshman forward Mikayla 
Williams also scored in double digits that day. UCSD, 
as a team, shot over 50 percent from the floor.
The Tritons were back in action on Dec. 19, when 
they took down Cal State Dominguez Hills 82–64. 
MacLeod was once again the star of the game, as she 
compiled 21 points on 915 shooting. Three other 
Tritons scored over 10 points, and two others, junior 
forward Dalayna Sampton and Williams had over 10 
rebounds. Junior guard Taylor Tanita finished the 
game close to a double-double with eight points and 
nine assists.  
UCSD competed in two other games to close out 
the year, against Cal State Los Angeles and Stanislaus State. On Dec. 29, the Tritons escaped a close one 
against Cal State Los Angeles 63–57. This time it 
was sophomore guard Joleen Y ang that carried the 
load with 24 points, the only Triton to put up double 
figures. Sampton compiled nine points and nine 
rebounds and was tied for the lead in rebounds on 
the day. On Dec. 30, Big Blue took down Stanislaus 
State 69–63. Senior guard Beth Mounier took the 
over, going to the free-throw line 14 times en route to 
21 points on the day. Both MacLeod and Y ang scored 
11 and Sampton and Williams grabbed 14 and 10 
rebounds respectively.
After five straight games at home, UCSD was back 
on the road on Jan. 5 and Jan. 7. In their first away 
game, the Tritons squeezed out a one-point victory 
over Cal State Monterey Bay, 63–62. MacLeod had 
a double-double with 12 points and 10 rebounds, 
while Sampton grabbed another 11. Mounier and 
Y ang once again proved their consistency, scoring in 
double figures. On the second day, UCSD concluded 
its successful winter “break” taking down Cal State 
East Bay 59–47. Sampton dominated, putting up a 
double-double with 16 points and 12 rebounds. 
UCSD is back on the road to face San Francisco 
State on Jan. 13 and Sonoma State on Jan. 14. 
Swim & Dive Crushes Its Competition Over Break
The UCSD men’s and women’s swim 
teams competed on four occasions during 
winter break and got stellar results at          
each occasion. 
The women’s team opened up the 
festivities when it took down No. 18 Cal 
State East Bay, 148–109. Junior swimmer 
Julia Toronczak won two events for the 
Tritons, dominating both the 100 and 200-
yard backstroke. Highlights of the event were 
in three events in which the Tritons placed 
1–2–3. UCSD was first in the 800, the 400 
and the 100 fly in the event.
In the second event of winter break, the 
Tritons competed against solid Division-I 
programs. The men placed first, dominating 
the field consisting of Air Force and 
Incarnate Word. The women had a more 
tedious competition, finishing fourth in a 
field of six.
For UCSD’s only 1–2–3 finish of the 
meet, junior Kevin Wylder finished first 
in the 100 butterfly, ahead of teammates 
sophomore Garrett Tse (50.09) and senior 
Gabriel Hernandez (50.54). Senior Michael 
Cohn won the 100 backstroke and freshman 
Edgar Chin took the 100 breaststroke for the Tritons. The women only won one 
event, when junior Angie Phetbenjakul took 
the 100 breast with an NCAA B qualifier              
of 1:04.66.
In the third meet of the break, UCSD 
finished fourth in the invitational-style meet 
behind Division-I opponents Rice University, 
San Diego State and San Jose State.
The Tritons’ women’s swimming and 
diving took first place in the 200-yard 
backstroke via junior Julia Toronczak, 
who finished a second ahead of second                    
place Kaitlyn Swinney of Rice. UCSD 
finished the meet with five more NCAA 
consideration qualifiers.
In the final meet of the break, both UCSD 
men’s and women’s teams competed and won. 
The men, ranked fifth in Division II, got the 
victory over Cal State Bakersfield, 198–93. 
The women, No. 6 in the country, won both 
meets against Division I opponents Cal State 
Bakersfield 165–134 and Loyola Marymount 
University 234–57. 
These meets concluded UCSD’s successful 
winter as the teams look to keep their hot 
streak going into the new year with eyes set 
on Nationals.
Women’s Basketball
Swim & Diveby Guardian Sports Staff
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESFencing
W. Basketball
M. Volleyball
M. Basketball
M. Tennis1/6
1/13
1/13
1/13
1/145:00 AM
5:30 PM
7:00 PM
7:30 PM
2:00 PMAT North American Cup
AT SF State
AT UC Santa Barbara
AT SF State
AT UC Riverside