Why is the athletics budget 
important?
Since its inception, the UCSD 
athletics department has been 
gradually fostering its overall competitiveness and intercollegiate 
influence. Despite budgetary 
constraints and limited state-wide recognition, the UCSD Tritons have managed to make a consistent impact within National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division II sports.
According to the 2015-2016 
Annual Report for UCSD Athletics, it recently won sixth California Collegiate Athletic Association Commissioner’s Cup title, third in the Director’s Cup and had 17 out of 23 teams compete in NCAA postseason play.
However, a student referendum 
back in May 2016 showed how 
ready many UCSD students were for 
Division I. 70 percent of the student body – out of 8,828 ballots cast – voted in favor of a potential twofold increase of the Intercollegiate Athletics (ICA) 
student activity fee to shoulder the 
transitioning costs.     
A general break-down of the UCSD 
athletics budget in the Division I Fact-Finding Task Force Final Report of April 2016 shows that the budget was mostly split between team operations (47.7 percent) and personnel (48.9 VOLUME 51, ISSUE 5  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 30, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
MAN BEHIND 
THE MEMES
The word “meme” was coined 
by Richard Dawkins in 1976. 
Memes make us laugh as they 
naturally evolve, mutate, and 
die. Talking is out; @tagging 
is in! Memes create a shared 
community, and that’s what 
Shaikh has done at UCSD.
STEM     ELITISM
KILLING   OF   A    SACRED    DEERLiberal Arts Neglected
Film   ReviewOPINION,  Page   4
A&E,  Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE”When analysing international 
problems, U.S. authorities 
tend to disregard social 
analysis in favor of state-
based thinking. Even though 
state-based analysis has 
its own advantages, the full 
denigration of group-based 
thinking still harms the U.S.”
- REVEKKA GERSHOVICH
PUTIN IT IN PERSPECTIVE
OPINION, PAGE 5
IN BRIEF...............................2
HDH TRANSPARENCY. ..4
HOROSCOPE....................8
CROSSWORD .................14
SOCCER............................16Features,   PAGE 6
MONDAY
H 85 L 65TUESDAY
H 83 L 63
WEDNESDAY    
H 80 L 63THURSDAY
 H 76 L 64
Internal Audit 
Reveals Violation of  2015 UC System Minimum Wage PolicyUC SYSTEM
The UC system previously vowed 
to set a $15 minimum wage in their Fair Wage/Fair Work Plan.
The University of California set a 
policy in 2015 that called for setting 
the minimum wage for workers at $15 
through the Fare W age/Fair W ork Plan. 
However, two years later, internal audits, conducted by UC Internal Audit and obtained by the San Jose Mercury News, 
concluded that the system is not keeping 
up with the promises it made. The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees 3299’s Spokesperson, John de los Angeles, 
reports that an audit of the UC Office 
of the President in April by the state have uncovered $175 million in hidden funds. 
According to AFSCME, the UC 
system’ s largest labor union which has been following UC activity since it was established in 1948 at UC Berkeley, the UC system, while avoiding to enforce 
the $15 minimum wage, is allocating 
its spending elsewhere by continuing to pay ex-employees. 
“W e see news reports of executives 
making six-figure salaries, even above the governor of California. Ex-chancellors from Berkeley and Davis are making more to essentially do nothing, ” Angeles said.
UC San Diego has also experienced 
the lack of enforcement of the policies included in the Fair W age/Fair W ork Plan.  
“44 out of 47 companies who met 
the $100k threshold did not provide legitimate certification forms or audits demonstrating compliance with Fair W age/Fair W ork Plan, including seven 
whose forms were signed by a company 
executive instead of an independent auditor, ” Angeles stated. Angeles continued to say that “one supplier was 
provided outdated terms and conditions 
so Fair W age/Fair W ork Plan was not implemented. ” 
Refilwe Gqajela, the UCSD 
Vice President of External Affairs of 
Associated Students, noted that the lack 
of enforcement can be seen across the UC campuses. 
“W e are seeing this a lot in housing 
developments in particular with UC Davis, ” said Gqajela.
Workers that are contracted out are  
“working side by side with folks who 
are UC employees doing the same work 
where one is getting paid barely over the minimum wage of the state and another is getting paid $15 minimum wage, ” Gqajela noted.UC San Diego students gathered in Price Theater for a screening of former Vice President Al Gore’s film, “ An Inconvenient 
Sequel: Truth to Power, ” which was streamed nationwide on Thursday afternoon. Before the film, Gore participated in a live Q&A session from Connecticut, where he answered a few pre-submitted 
questions from students across the country on how 
to combat climate change. The event was hosted as part of a year-long celebration of the Muir College 50th Anniversary.
A special committee has been putting together 
various events throughout the year to commemorate the college’s landmark year. Muir College Council President Kyler Vaughan, a student member of the 
Muir 50th committee, told the UCSD Guardian that 
they were initially considering asking Al Gore to come and speak at the school in person. When they heard about the nationwide stream of the film, they 
opted to host the screening instead.
 “ A lot of the work that former Vice President 
Gore has done aligns with Muir [College’s] vision for 
environmentalism, ” Vaughan said. 
As an outspoken environmentalist, Gore has 
spent most of his career raising awareness on the effects of climate change. Aside from his work as a congressman and vice president, he is perhaps most known for his film, “ An Inconvenient Truth. ” Most 
recently, he has been a vocal critic of the Trump 
administration’s recent decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement.Gore’s relationship to UCSD became evident 
during the Q&A. While answering a question, he stated that he was first made aware of the effects 
of global warming by his then-professor Roger 
Revelle, who was part of the early movement to study humanity’s effect on global warming. The name drop of Revelle College’s namesake was received warmly 
by the students in attendance who immediately 
responded by cheering. 
While answering student-submitted questions, 
Gore made several impassioned pleas to students 
nationwide to get more involved in combatting 
climate change. As the former Vice President put it, college students have been the “vanguards” of every major social movement in recent history. He cited 
the opposition to the Vietnam War, Civil Rights, and 
gay rights movements as examples. 
When asked asked how students could make a 
difference with regards to climate change, Gore told 
students to become politically involved.
“Use your vote, ” Gore said. “Don’t let denial go 
unchallenged. Please become a part of the solution. ” 
Earlier in the month, the celebration committee 
unearthed a time capsule buried by Muir’s first graduating class in 1971. More commemorative 
events are scheduled throughout the year, including an upcoming speaking appearance by co-founder and former chairman of Qualcomm Irwin Jacobs on 
Nov. 15th. 
“If you want to contribute to the celebration, reach 
out to your student government representatives and By Tyler Faurot  contributing writer
Scholarships are the only category for which women’s teams receive more funding.CAMPUS
BY Kevin Chiang
Contributing Writer
BY Tanaya Sawant
Contributing Writer
UCSD Athletics Spends More Money on Men’s Teams 
In their first meet under new head coach David Marsh, UCSD Swim and Dive defeated Claremont-Mudd-Scripps.
Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
CAMPUS
See AUDIT , page 3See ATHLETICS , page 3See AL GORE , page 3Politican Al Gore Addresses Students Via Livestream
ILLUSTRATION BY SUSAN SUN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
Follo w us o n all platfo rms! @ucsdasce
TIMMY TRITON COMICS By Andrew Diep
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. “Siri - hit the Dungeon lights.”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org  
managing@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Aarthi Venkat
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent GaoUnited States Secretary of 
Education Betsy DeVos provided new 
guidelines on how school officials 
should treat sexual misdemeanor 
cases, retracting the Obama-era 
Title IX regulations. She issued a 
press conference on Sept. 22. Claire Doan, a UC Office of the President 
spokesperson, assures that Devos’ plan 
will not drastically affect the current 
systemwide policy.
 “The campuses have flexibility 
in tailoring their approaches to training, prevention, and support 
for complainants and respondents to 
meet the unique needs of their local 
communities, ” Doan stated.
University of California President 
Janet Napolitano voiced her concern 
in a statement she released on Sept. 22.
“I am deeply worried by 
the Department of Education 
announcement today that will in effect 
weaken sexual violence protections 
[and] prompt confusion among 
campuses, ” Napolitano stated.
UC System’s Title IX Coordinator 
Kathleen Salvaty explained the 
UC System’s responses to the modifications in a letter sent to the 
Title IX coordinators on Sept. 22. 
“UC’s systemwide policies and 
procedures on sexual violence and 
sexual harassment remain in full 
effect, ” Salvaty said. “The policy is 
compliant with federal regulations and 
state law, which require equal rights 
for complainants and respondents. ” 
DeVos’s new plan provides 
guidelines that suggest school officials 
ask for more evidence when reviewing 
cases in order to protect the rights of 
the accused.
“In order to ensure that America’s 
schools employ clear, equitable, just, and fair procedures that inspire 
trust and confidence, we will launch 
a transparent notice and comment 
process to incorporate the insights of 
all parties in developing a better way, ” 
DeVos said.  
The Department of Education 
released a new question and answer document. In the document, there is 
no time frame specified for a “prompt 
investigation” of a case. 
“There is no fixed time frame 
under which a school must complete 
a Title IX investigation, ” the article UC Spokesperson Confirms Title IX Policies Largely Unchanged IN BRIEF
BY Madeline Leon
CONTRIBUTING WRITERU.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos altered the requirements for sexual assault cases towards the end of September.
Tuesday, Oct. 24
6:54 a.m. Welfare CheckReported subject in sewer requesting help getting out. Unable to locate.10:20 a.m. Medical AidSubject was reported to have cramps. Service Provided.2:41 p.m. Noise DisturbanceReported female yelling. Unable to locate.Wednesday, Oct. 251:54 p.m. InjurySubject fell from teeter totter. Transported to hospital. 3 p.m. - 3:45 p.m. Petty The ft
Undergarments taken from washing machine, loss $20. Report Taken.
11:24 p.m. Issuance of Stay Away OrderOriginal call for suspicious person locking themselves in bathroom. Report Taken.
—   Armonie Mendez
Editorial AssistantLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduSee DEVOS , page 3NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
percent), while a smaller fraction 
went to scholarships (3.41 percent). Team Operations include travel costs, recruiting, team apparel, equipment, game expenses, and other activities.
The Equity in Athletics Data 
Analysis (EADA) shows the precise distribution of funds within the UCSD athletic department in 2015. The data also indicates that both the expenses and revenues for almost all EADA-defined categories – coaching and staffing salaries, recruiting, and operating and team expenses – tend to 
be higher for men’s teams.
Student aid is the sole category 
in which women’s teams had more 
funding. In 2015, the student aid expenses totaled $161,014 for men’s teams and $186,400 for women’s teams.
The data further reveals that UCSD 
is outperformed by other Division I 
UCs in their annual expenses and 
revenues of practically all the EADA-categories. For example, the operating expenses of men’s basketball totaled $92,023 at UCSD, while UC Irvine spent $568,581.
Wendy Taylor May, the Deputy 
Director of Athletics at UCSD, spoke to the Guardian about the recent attempts at transitioning to Division I and the potential financial gaps.
“The area of the largest difference 
from our current funding is in scholarships, ” she stated.
In the Division I Fact-Finding Task 
Force Final Report, a financial model based on two-year average revenue and expense data from other Big West Conference schools shows that UCSD spent $300,000 on scholarships, while 
the Division I two-year average was 
$6,000,000 between 2012 and 2014.
Despite this funding gap, Deputy 
Director May indicated that UCSD is not underfunded at its current stage of Division II. She emphasized that much of the funding goes into community and student development, alumni engagement, and the diversity initiative. 
UCSD was one of 26 NCAA 
Division II institutions to earn a 2016 Presidents’ Award for Academic Excellence for its academic achievements. It retained a four-year Academic Success Rate (ASR) of 90 percent or higher.
In the 2015-2016 Annual Report, 
Director of Athletics Earl Edwards further celebrates the achievements by focusing on the academic accomplishments of the student-athletes.
“With academics being the top 
priority of our department, over 55 percent of student-athletes earned a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher, 
placing them on the Athletic Director’s 
Honor Roll,” he stated.
In fact, the report also confirms 
this – student-athletes graduated at a higher rate (90 percent) than the general student body (87 percent). give them your ideas for events and 
speaker requests, ” Vaughan said. 
A complete list of events can be 
found in the Muir Woods Newsletter, on social media, and online at muir.ucsd.edu.
states. “[The Office for Civil Rights] 
will evaluate a school’s good faith 
effort to conduct a fair, impartial 
investigation in a timely manner. ”
To evaluate misconduct 
cases, the document proposes 
“either a preponderance of the 
evidence standard or a clear and 
convincing evidence standard. ” The 
“preponderance of the evidence” 
guidelines suggests that at least 50 
percent of the evidence must point to 
the accused in order for the alleged 
attacker to undergo disciplinary 
sanction. 
California State government 
planned on passing SB 169, a bill that aimed to burrow the modifications of 
Title IX. According to Buzzfeed News, 
“ Advocates for accused students had asked [Governor Edmund Brown] 
to veto the bill, raising concern that 
minority and low-income students 
could be more likely to face discipline. ” 
Governor Brown sided with the 
opposition and vetoed SB 169 on Oct. 
15.
In his veto message, Brown stated, 
“On the one side are complainants 
who come forward to seek justice and protection; on the other side stand accused students, who, guilty or not, 
must be treated fairly. ”
Sixth College Sophomore Drew 
Olbrantz spoke on his stance regarding 
the Title IX adjustments. “The 
accused are often punished without due process — a fundamental right outlined by the Fifth and Fourteenth 
Amendments of our constitution, ” 
Olbrantz states. “Title IX protections 
are vital to protecting against sex discrimination and protecting victims 
of sexual assault, but the way in which 
these protections are carried out 
hopefully force us to consider a new solution. ”
Revelle College sophomore Melody 
Fajardo expressed her concern that the 
Title IX consequences will make it 
more difficult for women to speak out. 
“I’m disappointed in the fact that 
[DeVos] is asking for more evidence. 
It’s hard for women to report these 
incidents because they fear for their 
job, their pride, and their lives, ” Fajardo stated. 
Salvaty and Doan stress that the 
current UC System policy for dealing 
with sexual misconduct will remain 
unchanged. Angles explained that although the 
university claims to be saving a lot of 
money by resorting to contracting out, there is no evidence that this is true.  
“UC was claiming to have saved 
millions of dollars from contracting out, but the audit found that the $109 million in the claimed savings couldn’t be substantiated” Angeles stated. Contracting out allows the UC system 
to hire workers that the $15 minimum 
wage doesn’t apply to. 
The Fair W age/Fair W ork plan has 
prompted the UC system to contract out employees instead of hiring UC employees. “There are problems with increased 
use of subcontractors that creates a staffing problem, ” Angeles explained. 
“These directly employed workers are 
trained for very specific tasks and when they have to use contract works, the directly employed workers have an increased workload because they have 
to also worry about training the new 
contracted employees. This presents a decrease in services provided to students. ” 
More than the inability to enforce the 
policies that the UC system implements, AFSCME 3299 is concerned about the lack of adherence by the UC system to 
its core mission. 
“UC is really going away with its core public vision, serve as an engine of social 
mobility in California as exemplified by the non-conformity to these policies, ” 
Angeles stated. “This problem is bigger 
than a union contract, it is bigger than a piece of legislation. What we want is change and we want UC to get back to its core public mission. ”
The first round of internal audit for 
the University of California has just been completed and the audit plans can be found on the UC website. For more 
information about the internal audits, 
please refer to the San Jose Mercury 
News article. 
AFSCME Worries the UC System Is Departing From Its Mission
Student Athletes Have a Ninety Percent Rate of  GraduationMuir Will Host Additional Anniverary Events
Gov. Brown Vetoed Bill Overriding DeVos
Tanaya  Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.edu
Kevin Chiang   kkc024@ucsd.eduTyler   Faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.edu▶ AUDIT, from page 1
▶ ATHLETICS, from page 1▶ AL GORE, from page 1
▶ DEVOS, from page 2
Madeline  Leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Aarthi Venkat
While dining with my friend at the Bistro this past month, our waiter looked 
longingly upon our meals and said: “that was my favorite dish; I used to have it all 
the time when they let me eat here for free.” My friend and I exchanged a bewildered 
glance and I asked why she was not able to have a free meal, when the first thing that 
every HDH flyer I have seen posted around the University advertised a “free meal” when working for HDH. She reciprocated our confusion. This was the impression I received after speaking to a couple more waiters and waitresses as well as the assistant 
manager of the Bistro. They all knew that they were not allowed to eat prerequisite 
meals, or even discounted meals anymore, but did not know why or what brought along this sudden end to one of their best benefits.  
HDH - Housing, Dining and Hospitality - currently has two on-campus restaurants 
that simulate any normal dining establishment, except two important details; tips are 
prohibited, and as of 2017, employees at each restaurant must “perk” at a separate 
dining establishment. Perk is defined on HDH job advertisements as a “free meal” when in actuality it is a 10$ benefit given to students each shift they complete. It has been regulated to cover an entree and two sides and any additional costs must be 
covered by the students. However, the Bistro and 64 North are the only two dining 
establishments that are excluded from this benefits program, and students employed by each establishment must perk at other dining services in their vicinity. So, Bistro employees can perk at Cafe V and certain items from the Market. This system is replicated throughout the other colleges at their corresponding dining halls and 
markets.
Allowing a prerequisite meal at the dining halls where each respective student is 
employed is a logical benefit to work at HDH, but a problem arises when HDH begins 
to misinform employees, entertain ambiguous ideas, and operate under an inconsistent 
business model. 
After interviewing multiple employees from HDH, the higher I climbed up the 
organizational chain, the information I received became less obscure and more specific 
and reliable. Even the assistant manager at the Bistro provided me with information contradicted by HDH directors Jason Andrews and Ralph Duaphin. While the assistant 
manager blamed the high prices of Bistro meals to cause the new ‘no in-house perk 
meal’ policy, Andrews and Duaphin attributed it to the lack of designated break areas in each restaurant establishment. 
According to Andrews and Duaphin, when students took their breaks and ate their 
free meals, they took away a potential seat that could have been sold to a paying customer. During the summer, HDH revisited this matter and concluded that restaurant employees were prohibited to take breaks inside each establishment and must instead walk to another dining hall and make it back in time, all in the span of 30 minutes. 
I asked Andrews and Duaphin if there could be an opportunity to create a designated 
employee break room, to which Andrews considered a possibility but refrained from speaking hypothetically. If the solution to re-instituting the in-house perk meal at restaurant establishments is as easy as instituting an employee break room, then HDH 
should consider it a possibility if enough employees request it. However, did HDH 
purposely refrain from informing workers to prevent this type of reaction and the possibility of a such a request?
HDH should encourage a collaborative network amongst employers and the 
employees to ensure worker satisfaction. Student employees should be treated with 
the same level of professionalism as non-student employees instead of capitalising off 
their obliviousness. If a new policy is unpopular amongst workers, it would benefit HDH to withhold certain details to limit any employee dissatisfaction. Therefore, HDH would not need to be compelled to revise a policy that might directly benefit 
them, but not the employees. In this case, if HDH restaurant employees knew that 
restoring their in house perk benefits was as simple as requesting for an employee break room, then they might have requested one a long time ago; but since they were oblivious to the new policy revision, HDH did not have to take action and was able to convince employees to follow the new policy. 
It is unacceptable to withhold information that deals directly with employee affairs. 
It leads me to wonder what other vital information HDH is choosing to not disclose to their workers. If Andrews and Duaphin should communicate my concerns to their supervisors in order to impel HDH to reconsider their workplace practices and blatant 
misconduct. Their first priority must be to improve their communication amongst 
employees by holding weekly meetings and continuously updating employees on policy revisions. HDH should also avoid ambiguous marketing techniques by revising the wording in their advertisements, so students are not mislead into believing they will receive a free meal with every shift; and finally, HDH should work on their 
consistency in relation to new policies, which Andrews and Duaphin both agree is one 
of their biggest obstacles to overcome. 
Clarisse V azquez  cpvasq@gmail.comIn 2016, 57 percent of the UC San Diego 
undergraduates enrolled were majoring 
in a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics field with 25 percent of 
freshmen declaring Biology. By October, 
there were only 268 Literature majors, 
compared to nearly 2,000 Computer Science and Engineering. These numbers don’t 
account for undeclared students who may 
switch into those majors or any of the math-
and-science heavy social sciences such as Economics. This is a science school and 
it has the numbers — and the corporate 
research funding — to prove it. But a 
majority does not a whole make. In this 
rosy-colored picture of chemistry labs and 
pre-med symposiums, some of us have fallen through the cracks. Although STEM elitism 
is a pervasive force in the current technology 
boom, non-STEM UCSD students, by virtue 
of attending this university, are sometimes 
facing disproportionate challenges and pressures that come from the aforementioned 
elitism and definitive lack of representation 
and resources. College is hard enough 
without having to jump through hoops to be heard.
Unfortunately no amount of trivia night 
mixers can change the second-class status of 
the humanities and social sciences in academic 
conversations. There is a fundamental sense 
of superiority that STEM majors feel entitled to by sheer virtue of studying a scientific 
discipline. They say that their classes are just 
so much harder, that they’re so much more of 
a challenge than the humanities and, because 
they are able to overcome them, that they simply must be smarter. This is a sentiment 
echoed across UCSD, the humanities and 
social sciences seen as just a punchline 
in memes and jokes both online and in the flesh. Perhaps it stems from the promise 
of a job market with high starting salaries and Palo Alto corner offices, as opposed to 
the “starving” humanities majors who are supposedly graduating and then filing rank into barista training at Starbucks.
 I n  s o m e  r e g a r d s ,  t h e s e  a s s e r t i o n s  a r e  
not wrong. STEM classes are extremely 
challenging, particularly on this campus. The job market does favor STEM majors, 
and there are plenty of horror stories about 
the fate that befalls humanities and social 
science majors upon graduation. But this 
doesn’t give them the right to act as though the Lord came down from the high heavens 
and marked them with a pi sign on their 
forehead, anointing them as the sole heirs 
to human knowledge. Non-STEM subjects 
might not always have precise right and wrong answers, but there is nuance and skill 
that go into careers in those fields and it is 
unfair to write them off simply because a lot 
of it is subjective work.
 T h e  S T E M  p o p u l a t i o n  o n  t h i s  c a m p u s  
carry with them this elitism, and the humanities and social sciences people here do little to convince them otherwise. The lack of a community for non-STEM majors can be seen very clearly in the lack of student 
organizations on campus aimed toward the 
expression of such skills/talents. Not only is 
there a deficiency of such clubs, those that do exist are often underpublicized. This is 
never more evident than when looking at 
the bulletin boards on campus that are filled 
with offers to be in scientific studies and 
reminders about a pre-med society meeting. The arts and humanities clubs are partially 
at fault for this due to their underwhelming 
publicity, but it is hard to publicize something 
that is so heavily stigmatized. The vast 
amount of science societies is also probably a deterrent to the creation of new non-STEM 
clubs because it can make it seem as though 
there is no one who could want those clubs. 
It can be very isolating to be in college, and without organizations to socialize and create 
a sense of community, it becomes that much harder to stay motivated and find stability. 
Furthermore, as everyone loves to remind humanities and social science majors, the job market is not kind to them and it is even 
harder to enter it without extracurriculars 
that in some manner demonstrate skills and 
leadership positions, extracurriculars that, due to a lack of exposure, people might not 
have a chance to experience. 
This problem with the job market goes 
even further to the lack of internships that 
exist for non-STEM majors and the hassle 
that it is to find and apply to them. STEM 
majors might argue that anything they ever 
apply for is heavily impacted and that their 
internships are hard to get, but at the very 
least those opportunities are conspicuous and numerous. Humanities and social science 
internships are hard to come by: They are 
rarely on campus and are usually advertised 
by word of mouth. If you don’t happen to 
have a certain professor or catch up to the rumor mill, you probably won’t find out 
about it. Not to mention that there is rarely a 
focus on the specific subject area people wish 
to be involved in, so one has to take whatever internship is closest to their professional 
aspirations.
Non-STEM majors who chose UCSD 
knew that they were going to a science school, 
and so there is something left to be said for 
why they shouldn’t complain. The fact of the matter however is that this institution 
offers a lot of non-technical degrees, and by 
doing so it puts out a clear message — that 
humanities and social sciences are welcome 
here. 43 percent of the students were sent that message, but there is uncertainty as to how 
many can truly say they feel that that promise 
was delivered.
Lack of HDH Transparency Necessitates Top-Down Communication with Student Employees
By: Clarisse Vazquez // Contributing Writeradriana Barrios  a7barrio@ucsd.eduSTEM vs. Humanities: Liberal Arts Left Behind
By: Adriana Barrios // Senior Sta ff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David JuarezPutin  It  In  Perspective
While taking my friends’ and my own laundry out of the 
washer, I discovered a washed passport among the clothes. 
“I washed my passport,” I thought to myself. “God! I will 
have to go to the nearest Russian consulate all the way in Seattle and wait there forever for a new passport to be 
issued. So much money! So much time! So much trouble!” 
With cold, sweaty hands I close the passport. Thank God! it’s blue, which means it’s American. My Russian passport 
is red. 
Just last year my problem could have been solved much 
more conveniently. The Russian consulate was in San Francisco, and I could get a new passport over the weekend. 
However, this summer, the US State Department ordered three Russian consulates to be closed, including an office 
in San Francisco serving of 1,700,000 Californian Russians 
(most of whom live in and around SF). This action was taken as a response to Putin’s demand to cut the US mission in 
Russia by 1755 employees and to surrender two properties. 
Putin’s demand - and America’s retaliation - were purely 
symbolic as neither of the countries was harmed by them. The closure of a consulate does not harm a country’s strategic or even diplomatic positions since all major diplomatic 
missions are usually completed in the embassy rather than 
periphery mission posts. This only harms citizens of one 
country who want to travel or to live in the other such as Russian immigrants, international students like myself, 
professors, researchers, businesspeople, and tourists.
 As a Russian national in the US, you need to go to an 
embassy or a consulate in many cases: if you need to renew your passport, permit your mom to sell your apartment, 
obtain a non-conviction certificate for a new job or even to vote in the upcoming elections. Now, for all of those 
you would have to fly all the way to Seattle and wait there 
forever since, after the closure of those three consulates, all the lines there backed up. 
Such a disadvantage for Russian Americans comes in 
handy for Putin; in Russian propaganda we are traitors, and the consequences of brain drain on scientists and promising 
students can hardly be positive. However, the question of 
why disadvantaging American Russians is good for the US is debatable.
In this particular decision we can see the manifestation of a common problem: when dealing with domestic policies, the US politicians tend to do a strong social analysis of how 
specific groups will be affected by particular policies. They 
must because they are held accountable on domestic issues by their voting constituents.
However, since non-citizens cannot vote, US authorities 
frequently neglect their needs. When analysing international problems, US authorities tend to disregard social analysis 
in favor of state-based thinking. Even though state-based 
analysis has its own advantages, the full denigration of group-based thinking still harms the US. In this case, the 
US will be hurt by a future drop in the rate of immigration 
of well-educated Russians who would otherwise be able to contribute to the US scientific progress and economic 
development. All in all, such a state-level neglect of migrant 
and immigrant groups needs decreases an economic growth and impedes cultural and scientific progress of the US.  
REvekka  Gershovich  revekka97@gmail.comClosure of Russian 
Consulates Only
 Hurts the 
US Migrant 
Population 
By: Revekka Gershovich //
Senior Staff Writer6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
On an average day in the midst of Nov. 2016, Faraz Noor Shaikh 
created what has now become a community.
With three to four thousand people joining within the first 
three weeks and close to 17,500 members people as of today, Shaikh was 
unable to anticipate the magnitude of the crowd that his small idea would attract.
This idea? Put simply, it is the UCSD Facebook meme page, more 
commonly known as “UCSD Memes for Sleep Deprived Tritons” — a page where fellow Tritons can gather to share a good laugh or inside jokes.
Meet Faraz Shaikh, the third-year computer science Marshall College 
student who created the page. Although eventually turning into something quite big, the meme page’s origins were quite humble.
“Initially, I was writing an essay and I decided to take a break, ” Shaikh 
said, “So I went on Facebook during that break. And I was on the Berkeley meme page and I thought, ‘does UCSD even have a meme page’? So I looked it up and we had some meme thing that wasn’t really popular, so 
I made one — just for 
kicks and giggles. I never expected it to blow up in this way. ”
The meme page’s 
simple origin reflects the very thing that makes it popular — its relatability. Just like how many can 
connect to Shaikh’s 
experience — being distracted by Facebook in the midst of an essay — are memes popular 
because they provide a 
feeling of connectivity among students. From Eggers tags to raccoon reacts, memes have contributed to the culture of UCSD in a very tangible way.
“I’ve seen people in my lecture halls, like seven or eight people sitting 
together looking at the meme page right in front of me. And they’ll be laughing at memes together, ” Shaikh remarked. “When I see that happening I feel happy — I feel like, ‘wow, I’m bringing laughter into their lives. ’ … Generally, the atmosphere at this campus is like Week 3 hits and you get very serious, very depressed because of midterms. So I feel like through the 
meme page you have this portal to forgetting about your [worries]. ”
It is this sense of unity that gets at the heart of the meme page. In the 
increasingly internet-centered world, memes have now become the new 
expression of friendship. Rather than merely chatting through private 
messaging, tagging friends in memes acts as a public way of showing 
someone that you are thinking of them and that you want to share this “experience” with them.
For meme creators as well, memes are more than just funny pictures. 
Enter Nick Lin, a second-year data science student from Revelle. One of the admins on the UCSD meme page, Lin gained a reputation for being one of the more notable meme creators, especially for being the one who began the “raccoon craze. ” For him, memes have not only been a way to show off his comedic talent, but have also served as an outlet for expression.
“I originally posted stuff because I thought it was funny, because my 
background was actually stand-up. I used that talent for the memes, ” Lin 
remarked. “I started off standup comedy in high school senior year. It was 
basically something to help me overcome my public speaking fear, which I still kind of have … you kind of figure out what people find funny and what people don’t find funny through your standup. The similarities are that 
you need to find what people can relate to. I think that’s the main goal of 
comedy, being like ‘oh, I’ve experienced this somehow’ or ‘I’ve experienced something similar to this. ’ And then you laugh at yourself. ”
So what exactly do these memes consist of? For those who have been 
on the page since its beginning, the meme page has seen a flurry of diverse 
topics. From the time that Professor Eggers joined the page and was 
continuously tagged in posts to the battles between STEM versus non-STEM majors to the more recent memes about the transit situation, this page is constantly being updated with new and current content. In a way, 
it is this very feature that makes the meme page unique. With the freedom to post about nearly anything, the meme page 
has brought an awareness 
to certain issues that affect the students of UCSD.
Lin emphasized 
the common student problems that the meme page regularly brings to light, such as the lack of parking and the finicky 
wifi. 
“What is great about the meme page is that it brings up issues that there 
are not many avenues to address ... even larger [ones] like student housing 
and how that has impacted so many people, ” Lin explained. “To cope with 
such things, I feel people will make a meme about them to show that 
they are not alone [in] facing this dilemma, and I also feel that the school administration should take advantage of the page and use it as an avenue to see the problems students are facing. ” 
For the 17,500 members that are part of the “UCSD Memes for Sleep 
Deprived Tritons” page, memes have become more than just pictures of raccoons. Instead, they have grown to encapsulate and connect a whole culture and community that is alive and thriving at UCSD. Whether that takes the form of tagging or “cracking open a cold one with the boys, ” 
meme culture is just another way to find community. 
“[The meme page] gives people the opportunity to come together and 
laugh at issues about the school that all of us know about. … we don’t have 
a sports team where you can go and cheer them on. We have raccoons 
instead, ” Shaikh joked. “[The meme page] is a nice place where people can 
come to have fun, to have a laugh. ”Faraz Noor Shaikh, 
creator of the UC San Diego Memes Facebook page, describes the importance of memes in creating laughter and a community feel that builds friendships and gets you through the tough times.The Man 
Behind the 
Meme:  Where 
Distraction 
Thrives
by Madeline Park // Sta ff Writer
“It is this sense of unity that gets at the heart of the 
meme page. In the increasingly internet-centered world, 
memes have now become the new expression of friendship. 
Rather than merely chatting through private messaging, 
tagging friends in memes acts as a public way of showing 
someone that you are thinking of them and that you want 
to share this “experience” with them. ”
Madeline  Park  map048@ucsd.edu
ILLUSTRATION BY SUSAN SUNFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
by Madeline Park // Sta ff WriterArtwork by artwork and building by building, Professor Ann Woods is opening up UC 
San Diego’s students to the world of art history and architecture. She channels her own 
passion for the history and storytelling she sees in art around the world to share it with 
her students, many of whom have never been introduced to the subject before.
Woods got her first look at the world of art history when she visited Tokyo as a child and 
stayed at the Imperial Hotel, which was designed by the famous American architect Frank Lloyd 
Wright. 
“We stayed there for a week, and I rambled all over the hotel. It was just extraordinary inside 
and out; I’ve never forgotten the experience, ” Woods remembered. “ And the next year we went back, they had demolished it to build a big generic skyscraper with more hotel rooms. It was 
so sad. ”
Woods didn’t realize her passion for art history until she spent her junior year of her 
undergraduate education in Paris. A fter taking a few art history classes in one of the most 
beautiful cities in the world, she fell in love with the subject. 
“Because I was a student at the University of Paris, I had a pass that would get me into all 
the museums free at any time. I would go to the Louvre like twice a week!” Woods recalled. “I always liked history, but seeing the images and the buildings made history real to me. And so I 
realized: I have to do this. ”
Inspired by the history behind the art and structures she had admired for a year, Woods went 
on to get her doctorate at UCLA. Though she originally thought she would focus on nineteenth-
century French art and history, she eventually decided to specialize in Greco-Roman art and architecture, with a minor in medieval art. She completed a dissertation studying the tombs of 
a Roman priesthood of ex-slaves that documented their ascent into Roman society. Her face lit 
up as she elaborated on a subject near and dear to her.
“I like Roman social history. The fact that ex-slaves gained Roman citizenship, and they 
could own a business and become really wealthy — I found that so interesting. A number of them built really important tombs because they wanted to be remembered and leave a record of their accomplishments, ” Woods said, who spent much of her time analyzing these very records. 
“The first Roman priesthood gave these ex-slaves a way to participate in their cities, and lots of 
them advertised the fact that they were priests on their tombs. ”
Eight years ago, Woods joined the City of San Diego’s Historical Resources Board in an 
effort to learn about San Diego architecture, so that she could incorporate it into her history of 
architecture class. She now serves as the board’s art historian. 
“They designate buildings and houses as important resources that should be preserved. It’s 
amazing; there are neighborhoods that are filled with cra ftsman houses that were put up in the 
1910s and 1920s, and there are old Victorians from the 1880s, ” Woods marvelled. “You can’t just 
turn every building into a museum. They need to be adapted for some sort of modern reuse. We 
try to negotiate that. ”
While teaching her Introduction to Art History class, Woods found that many of her 
students’ minds have been broadened while learning about ancient societies. She believes art 
history is a truly interdisciplinary subject which can aid students in their other classes and even 
in other walks of life. 
“I’ve had people take history classes and then say, ‘I’ve actually learned more history in art 
history classes than in history class. ’ I think they remember it better, ” Woods remarked.
There are common misconceptions on campus — chock full of science, technology, 
engineering, and math majors — that a major like art history isn’t applicable to life a fter the 
undergraduate years. According to Woods, that just isn’t the case. She believes there are many 
things you can do with an art history degree.
“There’s teaching of course, and not just at the university level. There’s museum work and 
programs in arts administration and museum studies. There’s writing for art magazines or 
columns like the art critic in the New York Times, and there are lawyers who specialize in 
artistic copyright, ” Woods pointed out.
Furthermore, the major is versatile. Woods is earnest in emphasizing the value of pursuing 
what interests you and what you will succeed at while in college; one can never know what path it might lead them down.“You’re only in college once, and you should take what you love. You will do better, and you’ll 
come out as a more well-rounded person, ” Woods asserted. “To be an art history major doesn’t 
mean you have to have a career in art history. It means you can go on to business school or law 
school, or you can do anything with a good liberal arts education. ”
Woods thinks that part of getting a college education is building up a cultured mind that is 
open and knowledgeable about the world around you. As a frequent international traveler (she’s been to Oxford, Prague, Budapest and Greece in the past year alone), Woods knows firsthand 
how much more rewarding a trip abroad is when one has plenty of knowledge about the sights 
they’re seeing in their back pocket.
“I think more students should take art history, ” Woods said. “Students are going to travel and 
go to museums, and I think a college graduate should be able to wander through a museum and have an idea of what they’re looking at. ”
Woods’ favorite part about teaching, besides the fact that there are always new things to 
discover about art history, is the fact that her subject matter is exciting to students — at first, 
they don’t quite know what to expect, but they become interested in spite of themselves.
“I think art history is fun, and I get really positive feedback. Students travel and then they 
email me with a photo of them in the Sainte-Chapelle, excited that they got to see it, ” Woods describes.  “Students are excited about this field. It’s still interesting. I’m still learning new 
things. ”BEHIND THE LECTERN
Ann Woods: From the Louvre to the Lecture HallBy Charlotte Armstrong // Contributing Writer
Charlotte  Armstrong  c1armstr@ucsd.edu
  fg
Happy Halloween 
From The Guardian!A&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
By Natasha Vandamme 
// Sta ff Writer Horoscopes101:
Aries
Nostalgia is the theme of the week, Aries. Y ou may be missing someone, something, somewhere, or 
just a memory, but the thought keeps crossing your mind. Be at ease, though. It’s time to make peace 
with the past, one way or another, and do what must be done.
Taurus
Y ou’ve been in a bit of a rut lately. True, you love stability, but things have been … a little boring. 
Try to put yourself out there and meet new friends, or go out with your besties this weekend! Step out, have fun, and make some new memories.
Gemini
Gemini, you are keeping true feelings quiet and hidden under your classic, light-hearted facade, but 
the longer you allow these emotions to go unresolved, the stronger they will get. Be open and honest about how you feel and watch everything fall into place.
Cancer
Allow your natural talents to shine this week, Cancer! Hiding in the dark isn’t doing any good. An 
opportunity to showcase your gifts will be brought to light, and despite your timid tendencies, be bold and show the world what you can do. 
Leo
Romance, or should I say, emotional stress, is in the air! A current or possible partner has been 
rocking the boat in the unstable waters that are your feelings; however, do not fret. It sounds cliché, but if it wasn’t meant to be, it wasn’t meant to be. Remember who you are, and pick yourself back up!
Virgo
Virgo, you are usually the epitome of poise and overachievement, but lately something has been off. 
These urges of laziness in combination with your lack of motivation right now are forming a dangerous storm. Look up some organizational motivation and get to work!
Libra
Though Libra season has recently come to an end, don’t let that stop you from being your best! Things are only looking up. Y es, a heavy and very important decision must be made soon, but have faith in yourself and consult a close friend if you truly need to.
Scorpio
It’s Scorpio season! And I know you’ve been waiting patiently. Maybe things haven’t been going your 
way, but watch out. With the Sun in your path, no one will be able to stop you (until Nov. 22 that is). Get spooky and embrace a dark side.
Sagittarius
Y ou have been exploring a lot lately. While it is in your natural spirit to gravitate towards adventure, 
this does not line up with your current motives. These distractions you are using are just a self-made maze. Stop running away from what scares you and face it head on.
Capricorn
Things have been messy lately, Capricorn, but it’s time to take control and clean things up. Stop 
letting others have control over your feelings; only you can decide how you feel. There is an enormous and magnificent world out there; make it yours.
Aquarius
Aquarius, you are a natural people-pleaser, but face it — you can’t please everyone! Accept that you 
cannot always make everyone happy, because by focusing on everyone else’s needs, you are ignoring your own. Take some time to focus on what you need.
Pisces
This week has been hectic to say the least! School and work have you swamped, and you have been 
working extra hard. Allow yourself one day to settle down and clear your mind. Go on a walk along the shore, meditate a little, journal, or look up at the stars on a clear, dark night.
Wow, the stars really do know all, huh? I hope your weekly horoscope sheds light on whatever the 
situation may be. Do what you will with this information, and make it count. Best of luck, Astro-lovers!Hey Astro-lovers, welcome to a new astrological article. Today’s topic is horoscopes. Just so you feel like you can trust me (and the stars), I will include some background about myself! Throughout high school career, my friends and I were all interested (borderline obsessed) with astrology. We talked about the signs and analyzed birth charts all of the time. Not only did I learn from my friends and through my own personal research, but my mom actually had her own astrological curiosity. Astrology is not random and requires some studying to get a solid handle on (like all things). This piece will be less informational and 
more fun! So keep reading to uncover some seriously spooky horoscopes.
DIY HALLOWEEN COSTUMES
By Fred Grier // Contributing Writer
Last Halloween, you promised that you wouldn’t wait until 
the last minute to pick out a costume. With Halloween landing 
in the midst of midterm season, finding time in busy schedules to go costume hunting was something that was placed on the back burner. When it comes to Halloween, half the fun comes from 
costuming — the rest is having the excuse to eat a whole bag of 
Snickers without being socially judged and of course, parties.
Halloween used to be so effortless as a kid. When I was 
younger, my mom would take my brothers and me to some warehouse, and we would pick out some pop culture character that was the craze of that year — which was probably Batman, because when can you ever go wrong with a Batman costume? As the night approached we readily went door-to-door in privileged neighborhoods, where homes were featured on TV for having the 
best Halloween decorations, and adults handed out king-sized 
candy bars.  
Now, as young adults, Halloween has shifted into a 
competition, where costumes have to be full of … effort. We have the expectation to originate awe-inspiring costumes or recreate pop-culture memes, while still managing to look sexy at the same time. 
By all means, choosing a Halloween costume is not only 
challenging, but expensive. Being college students, most of us 
barely have the budget to afford a $4 coffee each morning, let 
alone expend our allowances on a festive costume likely to be worn only once or twice in our lives. A cheaper alternative could be utilizing your own wardrobe and composing a costume that is both unique and creative. Not only will it be easier on the pockets, but a DIY version will set you apart from the crowd. 
So before you go out searching for that impressive Halloween 
costume, check out these quick-and-easy DIY Halloween costume ideas that are trendy, yet affordable. I also recommend 
shopping at San Diego’s local thrift boutiques for vintage pieces 
to help bring your costume to life without breaking the bank. DIY Ideas
Fruit CostumeWhat you need: Blank T-shirt (Color depends on fruit) Fabric paint (Color depends on texture)Stencil to apply paint
Marker *optional
Instructions: Apply paint or marker onto the shirt, replicating the design 
of your chosen fruit (i.e black seeds for watermelon, triangle-like symbols for a pineapple, etc.).
Nerdy Student
What you need:Button-up shirtHigh waisted shortsSuspendersGlasses
Knee socks
Accessories *optionalInstructions: The best way to nail this outfit is by accessing the inner nerd. 
Baywatch Costume
What you need:Red swimsuitRed life preserverNatural moisturizer *optionalInstructions:
Find a bright red bathing suit or shorts to recreate the iconic 
Baywatch lifeguard character. I suggest getting a small inflatable 
preserver and writing “Baywatch” in bold lettering so people can distinguish your costume from a typical lifeguard.   
Athlete
What you need:Sports jerseyBall or sports prop *optionalInstructions:If you have a specific player’s jersey try to find relevant things 
related to that player and imitate those traits to bring your character to life. Also if you don’t own any sports gear, try asking friends to borrow their memorabilia to avoid spending money.
Where’s Waldo?
What you need: Blue jeansRed and white striped long sleeveBlack glassesRed beanie
Wooden cane *optional
Instructions:The most important pieces in this outfit is the shirt, beanie, 
and glasses. Where’s waldo is a world known phenomena, with these three identifiable garments most people will be able to recognize your character.
Firefighter
What you need:Black/brown cargo pantsFireman helmetRed suspendersY ellow duct tape
White T-shirt *optional
Instructions:
See DIY HALLOWEEN , page 9
LIFESTYLE        THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
While my last few columns have been focused on culture and identity, I want to talk 
about my actual trip to the Philippines for the next few weeks. 
After a few short days in Manila, my family and I headed off to our first 
adventure, Boracay — a small island situated in the center of the Philippines. There’s no actual airport in Boracay, so our plane 
landed in Caticlan, the city across the water, and we took a short 
boat ride to the port. Our resort was simple, but since we went during the rainy season and the connections on the island aren’t very strong, the Wi-Fi was down throughout the five days we were there. This actually ended up being a blessing instead of a curse, because I found myself actually appreciating the world around me instead of looking at my phone. 
As most Filipino vacations go, a lot of my time was spent eating. 
We had breakfast every morning at the hotel, where there was a 
wide range of both Filipino and American offerings. It’s normal 
for Filipinos to have rice at breakfast, usually with some “ulam, ” or main dish. I tried the longanisa (sweet sausage) and tocino (cured pork), but the best one, in my opinion, was the daing na bangus (fried milkfish). It’s salty, vinegary, and the perfect complement to some garlic fried rice.
The main mode of transportation other than feet was a tricycle, 
a cart attached to a motorbike. Nearly every day, we took one down to Station One, a stretch of restaurants and small stands about 
a 10-minute ride away. We had all sorts of food — mango milk 
smoothies at Jonah’s, grilled squid on Puka Shell Beach, melt-in-your-mouth tuna belly at Hoy, Panga! One night, we bought fresh seafood from the market and asked our hotel to cook it for us. I think I had inihaw na liempo (grilled pork belly) every day we were there. 
The back of our hotel opened up to the beach, and every day we 
set up camp under the palms. I alternated between reading, writing, swimming, making sandcastles with my little cousins, catching 
crabs, and just enjoying the sun — which I might’ve enjoyed too 
much, since I ended up getting a nasty sunburn after my first day — ouch. Vendors strolled by with plastic bags of Indian mangoes, and we snacked on those, dipping them in salt laced with chilies for a little kick. I paddle boarded for the first time, balancing not only myself, but my brother and cousins, who fought about who got to sit on the back end of the board. 
Boracay is one of those places that looks like a postcard. It’s 
a place that seemingly only exists in dreams, and I had to keep 
pinching myself because I couldn’t believe I was seeing it with my own eyes. The sand is 
white, fluffy, and it never gets hot. The water is a beautiful shade of aquamarine, and it’s so clear that you can see fish swimming around your feet as you paddle, no matter how deep the sea is. 
My favorite memory is of my first night. The beach, which was normally full of blankets, 
frisbees and running children, was oddly empty, and a strange sense of calm settled over me. I waded out to the ocean just as dusk approached, and the light bounced off the water as the sun set, turning the shining ripples orange and red and pink. It looked like I was swimming in fire. 
I’ve been to Boracay before, when I was around six, so it was interesting being back in a 
place I vaguely remember from my memories. One day, my mom and I were walking up and down the stretch of beach that had all the hotels and resorts lined up, and I suddenly stopped in front of a resort with wicker chairs and circular tables. I told my mom that I felt like I’ d been there before, and she suddenly realized that this was where we stayed back in the 2000s. I visited a cafe I used to go to with my grandpa — my mom says he and I would sneak off in the middle of the day to get our Nutella crepe fix. It’s cool to think that I’ve walked across those sands before — even though my footprints are more than a decade old, they still exist. 
Too often do we get caught up in the chaos that is life, and I’m glad that Boracay helped 
me remember to slow down, even if just for a few days. It was a perfect reset, especially after my hectic first year of college. It’s also one of those places I can’t really visit often — due to the high tourist rate and inflated prices on the island, so things tend to be more expensive — but it’s a place I love visiting when I have the chance. It’ll probably be another 10 years or so before I’m back again, but I know the beach will be waiting for me when I do return, exactly how I left it. 
Inspired by my recent trip to the Philippines, Tales of a Philippine Life is a weekly column 
exploring culture, family, mindsets, home, and more. If you’ d like to read the other pieces in this column, please visit the “Tales of a Philippine Life” series under the Lifestyle tab on the UCSD Guardian website. If you’ d like to see more pictures of my trip, check out @storiesnstills on Instagram. 
Tales   o f   a     Ph i li ppi n e     Li fe:
 Easy    Living     in      Boracay▶ DIY HALLOWEEN, from page 8
Apply a strip of duct tape to cuffs of the cargo pants. There 
are many ways to approach this costume, Google “Firefighter 
Halloween Costume” and see what suits best.
Thing 1 & 2
What you need:Red T-ShirtTransfer paperAccess to a computer and printer (to print shirt logo)Red or white over-the-knee socks
Iron
Light blue wig hair *optional
Instructions: 
Customize a by printing out logo from Google onto transfer paper (which can be found at the local fabric store) and just iron 
the logo onto your plain T-shirt. Pair this shirt with either jeans or tights, and you quickly made a Thing 1 costume! 
The Purge
What you need:Purge mask Business attire Plastic weapon *optionalInstructions:
Any business attire paired with a plastic spooky mask will do 
the job.Superwoman/man in disguise
What you need:
Superman logo shirtWhite dress shirtBlack dress or slacksBlack glasses 
Suspenders *optional
Tie *optionalInstruction:To achieve the superhero in disguise look, wear the logo 
branded shirt under your business outfit, but be sure to unbutton the white dress shirt to put the logo on full display. 
 Lastly, I want to wish everyone a safe night and happy 
Halloween!
By Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor 10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
We humans are particularly 
attached to a semblance of order 
and consistent reality. We like 
the predictable and the comprehensible 
because they signify and symbolize our 
control over our lives and destiny. This is 
why we are so afraid of the supernatural; it seizes our sense of control and subjects us to uncertainty and cruel, unavoidable 
fate. We deny that forces much greater 
than ourselves can govern us, and we wail and claw the ground in pathetic 
agony if gods punish us with ruin. This 
is the unenviable fate of the Murphy family in “The Killing of a Sacred Deer. ” 
Heading the Murphy family is Steven 
(Colin Farrell), a successful surgeon who wipes himself clean of blood and responsibility each time he finishes an 
operation. His loved ones are perfect; 
a loving son, a talented daughter, a supportive spouse. His life is spick and 
span, almost uncomfortably so; all the 
more reason for him to share his natural fortune by befriending the young Martin 
(Barry Keoghan), the son of one of his late patients. Their friendship is so innocent; 
sharing invitations to dinner, the presenting 
of gifts, meeting each other’s families. 
Then Martin begins stalking Steven. 
He’s there in the parking lot, he’s in his office for unscheduled checkups, and he’s 
obsessively texting Steven for get-togethers. Steven is wise to turn him away, but he does not see the true extent of Martin’s 
psychosis. By the time Martin reveals 
his sinister intent, it is already too late.
A while after Steven attempts to break 
things off with Martin, his son Bob (Sunny Suljic) loses the use of his legs. Then he can’t eat. Steven’s hospital can’t 
diagnose his illness. So Martin does it 
for him; for letting his father die on the operating table, each of his family will go limp, starve, and eventually bleed out 
from the eyes. And the only way to end 
this plague is if Steven sacrifices one of them himself. There is no logical or 
medical explanation for why they are 
dying; it is simply retribution in Martin’s eyes. Steven denies that some cosmic 
force is invading his household, but time runs thin as his daughter Kim (Raffey 
Cassidy) becomes afflicted. His secure 
lifestyle is compromised; he must now 
cope with circumstances far beyond his understanding and his comprehension.
The world of “The Killing of a Sacred 
Deer” emanates an intensely focused style. It’s one that director Yorgos Lanthimos executed masterfully in “The Lobster, ” and 
he continues it here. “The Killing” exudes 
an uncomfortable philia for straight lines. Hallways emphasize distance and a cold 
disconnection. Corridors are windows 
into claustrophobic spaces. Filling these voids are characters that share 
conversations with almost no surprise. 
Normally pronounced statements are almost monotone; even socially-taboo declarations and dire contexts 
are received with no obvious emotion. 
Perhaps most peculiar of all is an 
unexpected sensation — “The Killing” will make you laugh. Here, the Kubrickian 
influence becomes obvious. The deepest, darkest of humor spawns from the most 
unexpected places in this universe. It’s bizarre that three kids could be sitting in 
awkward silence after Kim nonchalantly 
announces her first period, then Steven 
is clumsily dragging his immobilized son around the next moment. Of course, we 
must be reminded that this is a horror film, 
and whenever human dignity is defiled on the screen, it is profoundly disturbing. The thought of watching a loved one 
succumb to a gruesome, unnatural 
fate by your hand is upsetting alone.
It’s unapologetically grim, and is 
not for happy people. Yet, “The Killing of a Sacred Deer” visits shadowed areas of the mind that require some 
introspection from time to time. It’s a 
sadistic reminder about the consequences of pride and folly, extrapolating the repercussions to unearthly 
proportions. At least you’ll giggle a little.
—   Da vid  De  Leon
Senior Staff Writer
And the gods saw humanity’s pride and ignorance; and they came down to smite them.FILM  REVIEW
The  Killing  of  a  Sacred  Deer
PHOTO COURTESY OF A24
Directed By   Yorgos Lanthimos
Starring  Colin Farrell, Barry Keoghan, Nicole Kidman, Ra ffey Cassidy
Release Date  Oct. 20, 2017
Rated  R A-A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS WITH VALID STUDENT ID
NOVEMBER 3RD, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUAD•
21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.•
For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu or 
(858) 534-0477.Val Kilmer is in this movie. It’s good 
to see him still working. Kilmer 
became something of a Hollywood 
punchline later in his career, as his severe good looks melted away, and he made some, 
let’s call them questionable, career choices. 
He has been on a bit of a comeback lately, 
taking on some smaller roles in movies despite his recent diagnosis of facial cancer.
In “The Snowman, ” Kilmer plays a 
supporting role as this sort of lumpy, sad-
sack alcoholic detective. Kilmer is relatively 
entertaining, and he stumbles around the 
screen, spraying vodka directly into his mouth 
from a sports bottle from his desk drawer.
That’s about the only good thing I can say 
about this terrible, terrible movie. If given the choice between watching “The Snowman” 
again and getting frostbite on my fingers 
and toes, I would have to think about it.
An adaptation of Norwegian author Jo Nesbo’s hard-boiled detective novel, this film follows Harry Hole (played by 
Michael Fassbender, who should have 
petitioned to get his character’s name 
changed in pre-production) as a troubled 
but brilliant homicide detective, with 
a serious taste for vodka and cliches. He 
leads a task force hunting a deranged serial killer, who is either called “The Snowman, ” 
or perhaps just likes snowmen. It’s never 
quite explained in any coherent way.
Who makes up this elite task force, you 
ask? Well, there is Nameless Bearded Guy 
#1, who sleeps at his desk the whole movie. 
Also, it features the ever-talented Nameless Bearded Guy #2, who Googles things on 
his phone when asked. Rounding out this 
crack team is a junior detective (Rebecca 
Ferguson), who uses this opportunity to 
focus on her vendetta against local business 
tycoon Arve Stop (J.K. Simmons) instead of doing any actual investigation or police work.  
This team is hunting a serial killer who 
is set off by the falling snow (shocking! 
Also, based on the weather in Norway, he 
would probably kill about 200 people a 
year). He targets adulterous women based 
on some strange Oedipus complex from an 
abusive childhood. His calling card is — you guessed it — a little half-sized snowman, 
which is supposed to look vaguely sinister 
but instead looks so silly and contrived that 
it destroys any sense of suspense or danger. 
Director Tomas Alfredson seems afraid to 
embrace any type of sexuality, suspense, or 
violence in “The Snowman. ” When he actually does show us the grisly goods, it’s gratuitous 
and mostly unnecessary, lingering far too 
long on decapitated heads or fully clothed 
characters grinding awkwardly on each other. 
This film wastes talented actors and 
some gorgeous Norwegian landscapes in a nearly criminal way. The screenplay reads 
like it was run through an outdated Google-
translate program about 10 times, then 
filmed right away without edits. The dialogue 
is so inexplicably clunky and inhuman as 
to be almost artistic in its shittyness, and 
the stage direction feels like community 
theater for the mentally deranged.
“The Snowman” shows us that even 
A-list actors and acclaimed directors can’t overcome a god-awful script or a budget 
too small to afford decent CGI technology. 
Willingly watching “The Snowman” is an exercise in self-loathing; if you find yourself 
doing it, please seek help immediately.
—   Spike Hemans
Senior  Staff Writer
‘Snowman’ is a plodding mess, with about as much charm as freezerburn.FILM  REVIEW
The Snowman
PHOTO COURTESY OF UNIVERSAL PICTURES
Directed By   Tomas Alfredson
Starring  Michael Fassbender, Rebecca Ferguson, J.K. Simmons 
Release Date  Oct. 20, 2017
Rated  R D12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
42 y ears since its original release in 
1975, AMC La Jolla has put on 
another screening of the cult-
classic “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” — a film that has been screened regularly 
in theaters all over the nation since the ‘80s. 
A musical parody of sci-fi and romance 
films, “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” makes several classic allusions to movies 
like “Forbidden Planet” and “King Kong, ” 
and adds some interesting, sexual twists. 
The soundtrack is phenomenal, perfectly 
representing the time of androgyny, 
misfit culture, adventurous sexuality, and 
the rock-and-roll aesthetic known of the ‘70s. From the iconic “Time Warp, ” to 
Tim Curry’s “Sweet Transvestite, ” to Susan Sarandon’s “Touch-A, Touch-A, Touch Me, ” 
“The Rocky Horror Picture Show” does 
not fail to deliver a thrilling experience 
for each and every viewer, new or old.  
The movie begins with a pair of bright 
red lips singing the intro song, “Science 
Fiction/Double Feature” before they fade 
off into a clear blue sky. We are introduced to Brad (Barry Bostwick) and Janet (Susan 
Sarandon), a traditional (and seemingly 
innocent) couple which has just gotten 
engaged. They find themselves with a flat 
tire when driving during a heavy storm 
in the middle of the night. Brad tells Janet 
to wait in the car while he goes to look for a telephone to use, but Janet insists on 
coming with him. The two come across Dr. Frank-N-Furter’s (Tim Curry) eerie castle 
where they meet his butler Riff Raff (Richard 
O’Brien) and maid Magenta (Patricia 
Quinn). Riff Raff, a hunchbacked, balding 
man with pale skin, dark circles underneath 
his eyes, and stringy blonde hair, takes Brad 
and Janet to meet the rest of the castle’s 
residents. Brad and Janet unsuspectingly follow Riff Raff into a room where the 
guests welcome them to their celebration 
by dancing and singing along to the “Time 
W arp” song. As it turns out, Brad and Janet 
have arrived on the night that Dr. Frank-N-
Furter’s newest creation is due to be born. 
An elevator comes down, revealing a 
sultry Dr. Frank-N-Furter inside. Brad and Janet stand in shock as he sashays across the room in sexy lingerie while seductively 
singing “Sweet Transvestite” as a way of introducing himself. He is wearing a heavy 
amount of makeup, black stilettos, fishnet 
tights, fingerless gloves, matching black 
briefs and corset, and (of course) pearls. 
When Dr. Frank-N-Furter’s long awaited 
creation, “Rocky, ” (Peter Hinwood) is finally 
introduced, he is revealed to be a muscular blonde man with androgynous features, clad 
in tight gold briefs. Despite their recent 
engagement, Brad and Janet each have sexual 
encounters with Dr. Frank-N-Furter, and once 
Janet gets a taste, she cannot seem to quench 
her thirst for it. As she sings her iconic song 
“Touch-A, Touch-A, Touch Me, ” she engages 
in a casual sexual encounter with Rocky, Dr. 
Frank-N-Furter’s prized possession. Cross-dressing and debauchery, ahh, yes, just as 
Dr. Frank-N-Furter famously says in the 
film: “Give yourself over to absolute pleasure. 
Swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh 
— erotic nightmares beyond any measure, 
and sensual daydreams to treasure forever. 
Can’t you just see it? Don’t dream it, be it. ”
My only criticism is that the plot feels 
a bit jumpy, and it’s accordingly harder to 
understand what happens. Almost all of the 
story is told through the songs rather than 
the dialogue, which makes sense since the 
film is a musical, but the lyrics can be near 
inarticulate. The music is great, catchy, fun, 
and amusing, but it also rewards fans who decide to rewatch a couple of times, allowing 
them to fully appreciate all the allusions, jokes, 
innuendos, songs, and assorted hidden details. 
Fair warning, this film is not for children 
or the easily offended. There is no explicit 
nudity, but there are nipples and risque attire 
shown along with murder, sex, and eccentric dancing. Dr. Frank-N-Furter cultivates the 
kind of atmosphere that encourages giving 
in to your guilty pleasures shamelessly, along 
with letting go of your sexual inhibitions 
and conservative morals. If you are an open-minded individual who enjoys a sexually 
and culturally challenging, adventurous 
experience, then I highly recommend 
watching “The Rocky Horror Picture Show. ”
—   Lorena  Espinoza 
Staff Writer
Damn it, Janet. Time Warp back to Transylvania and see your favorite cast of freaks. The Rocky  Horror  Picture Show
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOXRETROSPECTIVE   REVIEW
Event   Do the Time Warp Again: AMC October Screenings
Location AMC La Jolla
Screening Date   Every Fri. & Sat. through Oct. @ 10:00 PM
Rated   RCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ASCE PRESENTS: DOMO GENESISTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 30 - NOV 52017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN11.02 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org1pm
ILEAD: CONFLICT STYLES - HARRY 
POTTER EDITION - BEAR ROOM, 
2ND LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER 
WEST
Conflict will always find a way into our lives, 
so it is necessary that we are conscious of who we become in the midst of conflict. During this 
workshop, explore your conflict style with 
examples from the Harry Potter series. 
Presented by Haley Lomax, Coordinator of Student Activities, Muir College. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
TEA & PAINT NIGHT - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Feeling artsy and want to de-stress during 
midterms season? Come Wednesday, November 1, from 4:30 - 6 pm. We will be holding Tea and Paint Night! Enjoy delicious tea and healthy snacks while you paint away your worries. Come and stay for as long as you want. We love having you all here. Although it's midterms season, don't forget to practice self-care, stay hydrated and sleep! All supplies are provided for this event. First come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
DIA DE LOS MUERTOS 
CELEBRATION - CANYON VISTA AND EARL ’S
Face Painters, authentic menu, Ballet Folkloric 
performance, Mariachi Band, craft stations, and raffle prizes! Contact: lchambliss@ucsd.edu
5:30pm
MENTOR-MENTEE MIXER - YORK 
HALL ROOM 3010
The BSSA Mentor-Mentee Mixer offers mentees 
a chance to interact with different mentors before the Mentor-Mentee decisions come out! This is a great opportunity to network and get to know your peers within the organization, and perhaps make a few friends. There will be games and other opportunities to both celebrate the beginning of the Mentor-Mentee program and the beginning of another school year! Come and meet your potential mentor or mentee!! Contact: ucsdbssa@gmail.com Website: http://bssa.ucsd.edu/mentor-mentee-program.html3:30pm
THE POLITICS OF INNOVATION - 
SCHOOL OF GLOBAL POLICY AND STRATEGY, ROOM 3203
Why are some countries better at innovation than 
others? Mark Zachary Taylor's book The Politics of Innovation brings together the current political and economic wisdom about how nations become science and technology leaders. Taylor is an associate professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He specializes in international relations, political economy, and, comparative politics. Event is free and open to the public. RSVP at igcc-science-and-tech-talk.eventbrite.com. Contact: mthiveos@ucsd.edu
7pm
BURNT SUGAR THE ARKESTRA 
CHAMBER AND GUESTS - THE LOFT
Join us for Professor Stephanie Richards's event 
with Burnt Sugar the Arkestra Chamber on Monday, 
October 30th at 7:00 PM! There will be a 
pre-concert lecture by Professor Stephanie Richards at 7:30 PM followed by a performance by the wonderful Burnt Sugar the Arkestra Chamber at 8:30 PM. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTER PRESENTS: 
DANIEL CAESAR W/ SNOH AALEGRA - 
THE STAGE ROOM @ STUDENT CENTER
With each song, Daniel Caesar reaches out and 
makes a connection. His debut album, Freudian, which will be released on August 25, is no different. It is a compilation of melodies tied together to amplify the R&B singer’s distinct, soothing voice. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu11am
UCSD BOOKSTORE PRESENTS THE 
ANNUAL HALLOWEEN COSTUME CONTEST - PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Contest sign ups start at 11:30am, contest starts 
at 11:45. Dress to impress. We have had some great costumes in the past. Here are photos and video from last year's contest. Event flyer with categories and all the great prizes. Awesome prizes for first and second place in 4 spooktacular categories: funniest costume, scariest costume, most creative costume and best group costume. An addition to our contest, enjoy our live DJ from UCSD's own DJV, interactive photo booth, free samples from our Sunshine Market and candy stations inside the Bookstore! Contact: dfroehlich@ucsd.edu
2pm
HALLOWEEN SCAVENGER HUNT - 
ALL OVER CAMPUS
Join the Halloween Hunt and win multiple prizes. 
The list of items and tasks will be released via e-mail at 2pm on Halloween. Teams of 2-5 will complete the tasks around campus to unlock the final challenges. Big prizes for the top 3 teams and a smaller prize for all who participate. Sign up here:tinyurl.com/halloweenscavenger. Contact: wrfisher@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
ANNABELLE CREATION - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Haven't watched Annabelle yet? Well, here's your 
chance to watch it for FREE with your student ID! Bring friends, watch it together! Door: 6:30PM // Time: 7PM. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
4pm
UCSD MEN’S WATER POLO VS. UC 
DAVIS - CANYONVIEW POOLS
Come support your UCSD Men's Water Polo 
team as they take on UC Davis! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
WHAT FUELED ME TO BE FIRST? - 
MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM, STUDENT SERVICES CENTER
Join UC San Diego's first-generation faculty, staff 
and students as we connect to share our first-generation college student stories, highlighting our triumphs and challenges, and identifying what fuels us to be the first of many - first to go to college, first to graduate, and first in lots of other areas in our lives. Contact: tritonfacultyfirsts@ucsd.edu
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: DOMO GENESIS - 
THE LOFT
Along with artists Earl Sweatshirt and Frank 
Ocean, Domo Genesis joined the hip hop collective, Odd Future, in 2009. Since then, he has been featured on tracks such as 'Rella' and 'Rusty' with Tyler, The Creator and has performed with various rappers such as Wiz Khalifa and Anderson .Paak. UCSD Undergrads. : $11, Tickets on sale here: https://goo.gl/t8HSHb. General Admission: $17, Tickets on sale here: https://goo.gl/VDbKmr. Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.edu11am
GO GLOBAL, GO GREEN - 
SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE 
CENTER
Wondering how you can learn more about global 
environmental issues? Want to know what YOU can do to help? Come learn about global environmental issues with Student Sustainability Collective to grab some coffee and Sprinkle's cupcakes to go! Note that we are offering vegan cupcakes as well! Contact: grfuller@ucsd.edu
11:30am
FLU CLINIC AT THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE
Protect yourself from Flu Season! Come by The 
Zone November 1 & 3 from 11:30 - 4:00 pm. No appointment needed. Walk-ins Welcome. Tdap vaccines are also available. Note: This service is for registered students only. Cost: Free for students with SHIP and $25 for students with RAFT or a fee for service (with outside insurance). Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: NOVEMBEARFEST 
BEAR GARDEN - MATTHEWS QUAD
It's the first Bear Garden of the year presented to 
you by AS Concerts and Events! This Fall, we're bringing the Munich fun of Oktoberfest straight to you with FREE CARNIVAL GAMES, FOOD, PRIZES, and BEER! FREE for UCSD Undergrads of ALL AGES with valid Student ID. Must be 21+ with valid government-issued ID to drink. Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.eduTUE10.31
THU11.02
SAT11.04MON 10.30
FRI11.03WED11.01
8am
UCSD FENCING - BLADERUNNER - 
RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Fencing team during 
the BladeRunner event! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edSUN10.29The Loft @ UCSD, PC EastTHURSDAY
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Edges
5. Dozed10. Too
14. Foot part
15. Concerned one
16. Thin17. Slow down19. Fellow
20. Eating away
21. Trade restriction
23. Pigpen24. Honk26. Quilting event
27. Positive answer
28. Actor’s desire
30. Cage33. Jacket part36. At no time hereafter
38. Diva’s offering
39. Carried
40. Spring flower41. Labrador ____43. Guinness and Baldwin44. Week division45. Actor ____ Connery46. Completely47. TV room48. Sandwich shop50. Sis’s sibling53. Plead with57. Decorative clothing59. “Wish You ____ Here”60. Political bureaucracy62. Love god63. Make into law64. Netting65. Decays66. Leases67. Lyric versesDOWN
 1. Carnival attractions2. Lethargic3. Doctor on “Star Trek”
4. Cast off
5. Panoramas
6. Shirt size7. Age8. Singer ____ Seeger
9. Shook
10. Aquatic plants
11. Sly glance12. Warbled13. On top of
18. Defame
22. Pub drink
25. Make believe27. 365 days29. Done
30. Skin opening
31. Guitarist ____ Clapton
32. Loch ____ monster33. Cooking fat34. Site35. Sympathy36. Flaring star37. Flour factory39. Adolescent42. Got it! (2 wds.)43. Straighten46. Warns47. Attire49. Upright50. Run, as colors51. Remove suds52. Curses53. Water vessel54. Notorious emperor55. Jogging gait56. Quality of sound58. Military supplies61. Moving truckHOUSING
BLVD63- $1750-$4720. 6345 El Cajon Blvd, 
San Diego, CA 92115. Discover a relaxed So-Cal vibe apartment with an urban twist-where beach style collides with boulevard 
attitude, all in the SDSU area. Does stu -
dent living get much better than this? Two 
resort-style pools, a spa, outdoor fire pits 
and grills, and shuffleboard let you live the 
life that most only dream about. Then add 
in an awesome tech center, game room, 
and epic fitness center. It’s everything you need to put you in a San Diego State of Mind. -----Now Leasing Fall 2017! Reserve you new home today!......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Costa Verde Village $1800- $3525. 9720 
Costa Verde Boulevard, San Diego, CA 92122. We welcome you to visit our luxury community in the beautiful La Jolla/UTC area of San Diego, California. Costa Verde Village has everything to offer including 
studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes that include full size washers 
and dryers, central air and heat, private balconies and patios, modern kitchen with pantry and in select homes we have fire -
places available. Costa Verde Village offers spacious floor plans, fitness center, billiards and game room, refreshing swimming pool with spa, playground and planned resident activities. You are convenient to La Jolla beaches, UCSD, UTC Mall, and much more.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationVue at Lake Murray- $1625-$1995. 6867 
Golfcrest Drive, San Diego, CA 92119. Bring 
your golf clubs and hiking boots to the Vue 
at Lake Murray Apartments! You can select 
from large one or two bedroom floor plans with abundant storage and open designs. Enjoy modern amenities such as gorgeous tiger-eye granite countertops, new kitchen cabinetry with all new designer kitchen appliances, plush carpet and plank-style flooring throughout, designer lighting packages and fixtures, and a washer & dryer in-residence complete the package! Enjoy easy access to I-8, I-125, Rt. 52, and I-15 and experience all the fun activities the east San Diego area has to offer. Call or stop by and tour the Vue at Lake Murray Apartments, and discover your new mountainside home in San Diego......ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
AUTO
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, CA 92108. 2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500, 
2D Standard Cab, , WT, , Stock #: 180284, 
VIN Number: 1GCNKNEH7JZ146632….ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
2018 Chevrolet Colorado Work Truck. San 
Diego, CA 92108. 2018 Chevrolet Colorado, 4D Crew Cab, , Work Truck, , Stock #: 180270, VIN Number: 1GCGTBEN7J1135932.…...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information2018 Mini Countryman Cooper S AWD 
Crossover. San Diego, CA 92111. This 2018 
MINI Cooper S Countryman four door 
ALL4 features a 2.0L four CYL four cylinder 
Gasoline engine. It is equipped with a 6 Gear Manual transmission. The vehicle is Light White with a Carbon Black interior. It is offered with a full factory warranty..…... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Thule 953 Wheel On Front Wheel carri -
ers. San Diego, CA. Near new condition. 
$40 each or $100 for all 3 Hollywood fork 
mounts: $25 each or $60 for three, includ -
ing aluminum mounting plate. Package 
deal for all. Trade for other Thule racks pos-sibly.…..ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
49 cm Nishiki Century 12 Speed Road bike. 
San Diego, CALightweight 4130 Chromoly 
steel ‘mixte’ frame. All original, high qual -
ity, Japanese made components: 27” alloy 
Araya X Sansin hub wheelset, Shimano 
deraillers and shifters, Sugino cranks, and 
Dia-Compe..... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Swiftgear Bicycle Folding Bike Japan. San 
Diego, CA Nice red beach cruiser a “folder” imported from Japan by Swiftgear and the perfect collapsible commuter bicycle. $100 OBO...... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
UC San Diego swim and dive 
defeated Claremont-Mudd-Scripps 
148–135 on the men’s side and 175–114 on the women’s side on Saturday, 
Oct. 28. The No. 7-ranked Tritons 
won their first meet under the new 
head coach, David Marsh, who also 
served as head coach for the 2016 U.S. 
Women’s Olympic Team. 
In 20 out of the total 32 swim and 
dive events, UCSD placed first. 
Among the list of notable Tritons 
were freshman sprint freestyle Ciara 
Franke, senior individual medley/butterfly Kevin Fink, sophomore 
sprint freestyle Sawyer Farmer, and freshman backstroke freestyle/
butterfly Tenny Chong. All four 
of these individuals placed first in 
multiple events.
Farmer and Franke dominated 
the 50- and 100-yard freestyles for 
the men’s side and women’s side, respectively. Fink won the 200-yard fly and 500-yard free. Tenny finished first for the 100-yard and 200-yard back, but was also part of the team that swept the 200-yard IM. 
For diving, junior Brooke 
Abrantes garnered scores of 241.87 in 
the Women’s 3-meter and 249.75 in 
the Women’s 1-meter to take first in 
both events. 
Some other winners of the day 
were sophomore distance freestyle Kaitlyn Ritchey (1000 free, 10:27.45), junior distance freestyle Alejandro Ortiz (1000 free, 9:50.13), sophomore middle distance freestyle Alayna Gocke (200 free, 1:53.82), senior 
sprint/middle distance freestyle 
Samuel Lee (200 free, 1:44.24), senior sprint freestyle/breastroke Angie Phetbenjakul (100 breast, 1:05.64), and freshman butter fly/backstroke 
Lindsay Clark (200 fl y, 2:09.12).
UCSD will swim against UC Santa 
Barbara on Nov. 4 at 11 p.m. This 
event will be a swim-only event and 
will take place in Santa Barbara.UC San Diego Opens 
Season with a SplashTritons Splits Final Home Games 
Tritons win in head coach David Marsh’s debut.UCSD defeated CSUMB, but dropped its home finale against CSUEB.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSThe UC San Diego women’s 
volleyball team posted a 3–1 victory 
over Cal State Monterey Bay on Friday night. While the win doesn’t alter their rankings, it places the Tritons (16–5, 10–3 California Collegiate Athletics Association) comfortably at second in their division.
The first set of the night started 
off tight: The point di fferential stayed 
within two points well past the halfway mark. Unfortunately for the Tritons, the Otters managed to find their 
groove, scoring seven points straight, led by Otter outside hitter Kyra Galloway, taking control of the game. Though UCSD attempted a resilient set 
point stand, it was unable to rebound, losing the first set 21–25.
The Tritons quickly brushed o ff 
their opening-set loss, going on to win the next three sets by sizable margins: 25–18, 25–14, and 25–12, respectively. Elite play by junior middle blocker Micah Hammond and senior outside hitter Amanda Colla, who combined for 40 kills on the night, provided the Tritons with the momentum and confidence to win the game. “Micah 
Hammond played a great game for us, so I started sticking her in the front row, ” head coach Ricci Luyties commented, as he celebrated his 150th win with the women’s volleyball team. “ Amanda Colla, who kind of does everything for us, really came through after that first game as well. ”
UCSD v. Cal State East BayIn the final home game of the 
season, UCSD was unable to hold o ff 
a surging Cal State East Bay team. The 
Pioneers (14–9, 7–7 CCAA) upset the Tritons (16–6, 10–4 CCAA) in five sets. 
Assistant coach Jaye Loyd said it came down to momentum.
“Consistency and momentum is 
huge in volleyball, ” Loyd said. “I think you can see huge momentum shi fts in 
the games and a little bit of a lack of consistency. ”
Momentum was not in UCSD’s 
favor in the first set. Though the start 
of the set remained close, the Pioneers broke out, scoring six unanswered points. The Triton’s attempted 
comeback was plagued by self-in flicted 
errors and the Triton’s were soundly defeated 15–25.
The Tritons quickly rebounded a fter 
losing the first set, like the night before. 
UCSD jumped out to a commanding 6–1 lead early in the set and never relinquished their lead. In this set, UCSD flipped the script, defeating Cal 
State East Bay 25–16.
In the third set, the Tritons carried the momentum from their second set victory. A kill by Hammond set UCSD on a scoring streak that would continue until the end of the set. With a strong o ffensive performance, as well 
as multiple miscommunications and errors by their opponents, the Tritons easily handled the Pioneers, winning 25–13.
Just as quickly as it swung in 
UCSD’s favor, momentum seemed to shift in favor of Cal State East Bay. A fter 
getting their first lead of the set, the 
Pioneers took command of the game, scoring 15 points to the Triton’s four to win the set.
The final set started o ff close: Both 
teams understood that the game was on the line. No team was able to break the stalemate until the final three points. 
A service error by UCSD, followed by two other errors, gave the game to the Pioneers. In disappointing fashion, the Tritons fell 12–15 in the final set.
UCSD will finish their season 
on the road, heading to San Marcos on Nov. 4 to play division rival Cal State San Marcos.
RICHARD LU  RIL014@ucsd.edu
BY MAdeline  Lewis
Staff WriterBYRichard  Lu
Sports editorial assistant
by Wesley Xiao // Contributing Writer
PHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER  // UCSD GUARDIAN
wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
UC San Diego at Cal State East 
Bay — Hayward, CA
The UC San Diego women’s soccer 
nine-game California Collegiate 
Athletic Association win streak finally 
concluded on the road Thursday night 
after a Cal State East Bay tie, 1–1. Due 
to the draw, the No. 7 Tritons came up just shy of back-to-back perfect c onference seasons, attempting to 
match last year’s 12–0 flawless record.
Nonetheless, the Tritons picked 
up their second consecutive CCAA 
regular-season championship with a 
stellar 10–0–1 in league and 12–2–2 
overall.
The score was quiet through the 
entirety of period one. UCSD led in 
shots on goal 6–4 and corner kicks 2–0, yet still struggled to sneak one past the 
Pioneer goalie in the first 45 minutes.
The first goal of the game came 
early in the second half by Triton 
senior forward, Katie O’Laughlin. 
Two freshmen mid fielders, Natalie 
Widmer and Caitlin McCarthy both received assists on the play as Widmer initiated and McCarthy dummied to 
set the ball perfectly for upperclassman 
O’Laughlin. Striking the back of 
the net just above the goalie’s reach, 
O’Laughlin tallied her sixth goal of the 
season.
The Pioneers were quick to answer 
in return, bringing the game even 
at one at the 55:39 marker. Abby 
Buitrago, CSUEB freshman mid fielder, 
capitalized on a long shot from the le ft 
side.
At the end of regulation and a 
combined 15 shots later, the match 
was sent into two 10-minute overtime 
periods. However, neither team was able to close out the battle on the pitch.
Triton redshirt sophomore, 
Angelica Ramos, collected another five 
saves to add to her 51 total.
UC San Diego at Cal State 
Monterey Bay — Seaside, CAUpon traveling slightly south from 
East Bay to Monterey, UCSD wrapped 
up the 2017 season undefeated in the CCAA this Saturday. The Tritons have 
not only locked up the number one seed 
for the upcoming CCAA Tournament, but a home crowd hosting position as well.
Another 1–0 win makes it the ninth 
time UCSD has walked o ff the field 
with only a single goal advantage.
The point evolved late in the second 
period when redshirt sophomore midfielder, Natalie Saddic executed 
on a careless Cal State Monterey Bay penalty in the box. With a hushed crowd in the background and her 
teammates solely relying on her in the 
moment, Saddic nailed the upper le ft 
corner of the goal; it was her second of the season.
Regardless of the flat first half and 
a majority of the second, the Tritons continued the pressure, commanding in shots 18–8, an even split of nine in each 45-minute period. A sporadic nine players from UCSD contributed 
to the constant attack, including three 
mighty shots apiece from O’Laughlin, Saddic, and Widmer.
Triton goalkeeper Ramos filed 
another three saves on the shutout. 
With the help from a solid defense, 
Ramos has allowed only three goals in the last 12 competitions.
UCSD successfully wrapped up the 
2017 grind 10–0–1 in conference. They 
patiently await the winner of Tuesday’s game amidst Chico State (No. 4) and Cal State San Marcos (No. 5). The 
Tritons defeated the Wildcats 3-0 back in September and the Cougars 1–0 in 
early October.
The semi final of the CCAA 
Tournament will take place Friday, 
Nov. 3 at Triton Soccer Stadium at 7 p.m. 
The UC San Diego men’s soccer 
team traveled up north to face its last 
two opponents of the regular season in an attempt to earn a top-two iseed 
and a first-round bye in the conference 
tournament coming up this week. 
Two wins over Cal State East Bay and 
Cal State Monterey Bay would have 
secured the Tritons a first-round bye; 
however, they were stopped just short 
of the second seed. On Thursday, the 
Tritons got business done with a 4–1 
victory over East Bay, but on Saturday 
they were held scoreless in a 0–0 draw 
against Monterey Bay. As a result, UCSD earned the third seed and will 
not have a first-round bye.  
Game v. East Bay
The Tritons needed some good 
results on Thursday and they got just 
that, thanks to a great response a fter 
going down 1–0 in the opening 20 
minutes of the game. East Bay’s goal 
came from a rebound that kindly fell into the path of Pioneer’s striker, who 
was able to tap it in from close range 
to give his team the early lead. An East Bay goal against UCSD is a bit of a 
rarity as, up to that point, the Tritons 
had held the Pioneer’s scoreless for over nine games, amounting to 847 
minutes of play.  
UCSD’s response did not come 
until about five minutes remaining 
in the first half, as freshman forward 
Jonathan Sabouri leveled the match 
at 1–1 a fter receiving a wonderful 
diagonal ball from senior forward Uly 
de la Cal who, at about the edge of the 
six-yard box, tapped it in from close range for UCSD’s first goal. Then with 
a minute remaining in the half, De La Cal would get in the act as he made the best out of a poor clearance from 
the Pioneer defense, receiving the ball 
on left side of the 18-yard box and 
hitting a shot from distance to beat the 
goalkeeper at his near post.  
Sabouri would prove to be the man 
of the match; he was able to knock in a couple more goals to earn his first-
ever hat trick, an impressive feat for 
the freshman. His second goal was a 
lovely display of skill: He received the 
ball about 50 yards from goal and, with his back to the goal, got past the 
first defender with a wonderful turn to 
the inside and beat him out with pace 
towards goal. He then sidestepped 
another defender and curled the ball 
from outside the 18-yard box to the bottom right corner. The freshman’s 
third goal came courtesy of a through pass from redshirt senior forward Malek Bashti. 
Game v. Monterey Bay In a must-win game for the Tritons, 
they came up short. Unlike their game 
against Cal State East Bay, they could 
not buy themselves a goal on that day.  
The Tritons held the shot advantage 
at 15–5 a fter the two periods of extra 
time. On a couple of occasions, UCSD had their shots hit the bar, unlucky to 
not go in. But, it simply was not meant 
to be that day, as the game ended with a 0–0 draw and UCSD fell to the third 
seed.  
As the third seed, the Tritons will 
face San Francisco State University on Tuesday night, Oct. 31, as they 
begin their quest for a second straight California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Tournament crown. 
Kickoff is set for 7 p.m. BY Daniel Hernandez
Senior Staff Writer
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduTritons Earn Regular Season 
CCAA Title, Await Tournament 
Tritons Finish Season with CCAA 
Championship AspirationsUC San Diego finished the season with a stellar 10-0-1 record in conference 
and will host the CCAA tournament, with its first game on Friday night.
UC San Diego ends season with a 4-1 victory against Cal State East Bay 
and a tie against Cal State Monterey Bay for a 7-1-3 conference record.Women's  soccer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduBY MAdeline  Lewis
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSmen's  soccerUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Soccer
W Soccer
Fencing
Cross Country
M Water Polo10/31
11/3
11/411/411/47 PM7 PM
8 AM
11 AM
4 PMSF State (CCAA Tournament)TBA (CCAA Tournament)BladeRunnerAT NCAA West RegionalsUC Davis