VOLUME 50, ISSUE 28   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 27, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREGUARDIAN CHOICE 
AWARDS
ARE YOU OVER THE OSCARS? 
IF YOU’RE NOT, GO AND 
PRETEND TO HAVE FUN 
WATCHING THE LITERATE 
MILLIONAIRES READING FROM 
TELEPROMPTERS  — WE’LL 
BE CHILLING WITH OUR OWN 
AWARDS FOR THE FILMS AND 
FINE ACTORS WHO ARE WORTHY 
OF OUR INK. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Our Countr y's burden  
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
 “ IT WAS  NOT THE ADMINISTRAT ION 
THAT CANCELLED  THE SPEAKERS , BUT 
RATHER  THE SECUR ITY TEAMS  OR 
THE STUDENT  ORGAN IZATIONS THAT 
ORIGINALLY INVITED THE SPEAKERS . 
THE ADMINISTRAT ION HAD NO SAY 
IN THE DECISION TO DISINVITE MILO 
YIANNOPOULOS .
- Editorial Board
FIRST AMENDMENT  
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
A.S. COLUMN  .................. 2
GENERATION Y...................4
LIFESTYLE..................... 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. BASKETBALL  ............ 15A&E,  P AGE 8
ON FEB. 9 THE ARMENIAN 
STUDENT ASSOCIATION 
PROTESTED IN FRONT 
OF SILENT TREE FOR 
RECOGNITION OF THE 
ARMENIAN GENOCIDE, TAPE 
COVERING THEIR MOUTHS. 
WE SPOKE TO MEMBERS 
OF ASA ABOUT WHY THEY 
CHOSE THEIR UNIQUE STYLE 
OF PROTEST AND WHAT 
THE GENOCIDE MEANS TO 
ARMENIAN AMERICANS TODAY
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
M.  BASKETBALL
UCSd  clinches  CCAA  Ber th
sports,  P age  15SHOUTING   IN   SILENCE
In a study commenced in 2012 at 
UC San Diego’s Moores Cancer Center, 
researchers have revealed a possible 
drug mixture treatment for ovarian 
cancer. The bioinformatics portion of 
the study helped refine research in 
2013.
Research on possible treatments 
began when the Nine Girls Ask 
Foundation, a nonprofit organization 
devoted to finding a cure for ovarian 
cancer, reached out to Dr. Dwayne 
Stupack, an associate professor at the 
cancer center, and his mentee, Dr. Joe 
Delaney, a postdoctoral scholar. 
“The Nine Girls Ask foundation 
connected me and Dwayne to people 
suffering from ovarian cancer in 
their family, which reinforced my 
own beliefs that finding an applicable treatment is at least equally important 
to the science behind the treatment, ” 
Delaney told the UCSD Guardian. 
Four years later, the research of 
both Stupack and Delaney has led 
them to a possible five-drug mixture 
titled Combination of Autophagy 
Selective Therapeutics. The blend 
consists of drugs including metformin, 
chloroquine, nelfinavir, rapamycin and 
dasatinib.
Some of the drugs in the COAST 
treatment initially failed during testing. 
However, they were not ruled out after 
producing unsuccessful results.
“The one-drug approach 
wasn’t sufficient, ” Stupack said to 
the Guardian. “What we’re trying 
to do with this protocol is to use a 
combination of drugs. … Chloroquine 
is an anti-malarial taken by millions 
of people. Metformin is a drug that is 
used in diabetes. … These are drugs we’ve pulled out of other diseases but 
that are very safe, that are hitting the 
targets in our genetic studies. ” 
With the combination, the 
researchers predicted the drugs would 
invoke cell death as a result of the 
cells not being able to go through a 
process called autophagy, a recycling 
system within the body. During the 
process, cells search for other cells 
that are causing disturbances. Once 
found, they are recycled into energy 
in different ways that are later fed into 
cell pathways, which are often used by 
stressed cells. 
Part of the disturbances found were 
recorded from Haploinsufficiency and 
Triplosensitivity Gene, a software 
designed by Delaney to include 
research on conserved genes.
“The drugs all cause dysregulation 
of autophagy and/or proteostasis, in IT Services 
Launches 
Cybersecurity 
CampaignUCSD
Each month will focus on a 
different cybersecurity topic 
to promote awareness. 
The UC San Diego Office of 
Information Technology Services 
announced a new cyber security 
awareness campaign this month. 
The campaign is intended to educate 
students and staff on how to protect 
their data and keep the school 
network safe.
The UCSD Guardian spoke with 
Chief Information Security Officer 
Michael Corn about the purpose of 
the campaign.
“We all run our lives mediated by 
technology … The problem is that 
people are not trained how to use and 
be savvy in cyber security, ” he stated. 
“The whole point of the campaign is 
to sensitize people to issues of [cyber 
security] and to provide the basic 
information on what it means to 
work in a secure manner. ”
According to Corn, the campaign 
will consist of a variety of media 
postings in the form of articles, blog-
posts, newsletters and more that 
will follow a monthly topic focusing 
on some aspect of cyber security. 
The first article, which focuses on 
how to identify phishing scams, was 
published last week. 
Corn emphasized that the 
purpose of the campaign is not to 
restrict people’s use of the network, 
but to educate them on to how to 
properly use it.
“It’s important for people to 
understand what we are doing here 
is not trying to police them but 
giving them the tools to protect 
themselves and to become more 
savvy consumers of digital content, ” 
Corn said.
Corn also pointed out that those 
who are victims of hackers or viruses 
shouldn’t feel guilty, considering the 
complexity of today’s major cyber 
threats.
The University of California 
has been the victim of large-scale 
data breaches in the past. In 2015, 
a cyberattack on the UCLA Health 
System jeopardized sensitive 
information on as many as 4.5 
million patients. Last year, UC 
Berkeley announced that a hacker 
broke into its system holding the 
financial data of 80,000 current and 
former employees.
Going forward, Corn highlighted 
the importance of employing 
multiple strategies and measuring 
which messages have the largest 
impact on the UCSD population.
“We can’t send and craft a 
message that’s going to appeal to 
19 year olds and have that same 
message appeal to tenured faculty, ” 
Corn said. “We are never going to 
have a single vehicle. Y ou have to try 
multiple methods that go across the 
entire spectrum and measure which 
are effective. ”
According to Corn, the campaign Sixth College Hosts Annual Videogame Fest
UC San Diego’s Sixth College Technology 
Committee held its 13th annual Winter 
Gamefest in Price Center last weekend. 
This year’s event was larger than in previous years 
with 2,200 students and guests attending the 
gamefest, spanning from last Friday to Sunday 
night.
Attendees could participate in a variety of 
events, including raffles for gaming gear like 
virtual reality systems, cosplay contests, virtual 
reality demos and Overwatch and Rocket League 
tournaments. Gamefest-goers could also watch 
the first ever Tespa Collegiate Series Overwatch 
Finals, a five-month-long tournament where 
teams of gamers from universities around the 
country battle for first place and $100,000 in 
scholarships and prizes.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Christina 
Carlson participated in many of the activities at 
the Winter Gamefest.
“This was my first gaming convention, ” Carlson 
told the UCSD Guardian. “I spent time looking 
around at the different exhibits like game stations, 
VR demos, [and] art booths, as well as doing some 
actual gaming. The event that stuck out to me 
was the Overwatch Collegiate Championships. It was the first time I fully realized just how huge 
competitive gaming had become. ”
For many attendees, the TCS Overwatch 
Finals were a major highlight of the event, with 
seating in Price Center theater reaching the 
300-person capacity as students spectated and 
livestreamed the competition. Price Center’s East 
Ballroom was completely transformed by Blizzard 
Entertainment, the game-developing company 
that created Overwatch. An announcer booth was 
set up in the back of the room and spectators were 
greeted with a tall and illuminated representation 
of the official game logo. On each side of the logo, 
which served as a centerpiece, six computers were 
set up for each competing team of gamers. 
Four teams from UC Berkeley, University 
of Texas, Rutgers University and the University 
of Toronto competed for over $100,000 in 
scholarships and prizes. In the semifinals, Rutgers 
lost to UC Berkeley while Toronto defeated Texas. 
In the finals, UC Berkeley took the win over 
Toronto, winning each match and sweeping the 
tournament without a single loss.  
Most of the attendees at the Gamefest were 
UCSD students with few visiting individuals, 
according to Tespa officials. UC Irvine junior B y Nadia Link  CONTRIBUTING WRITERCAMPUS
Researchers at Moores Cancer Center developed a five-drug mixture that was tested on mice.See GAMEFEST , page 3
SCITECH
BY  A r m o n i e  M e n d e z
contributing writer
BY  J o s h  L e f l e r
Senior staff writer
Potential Ovarian Cancer Treatment Discovered
Photo by Nadia Link// UCSD Guardian
See CANCER , page 3 See CYBERSECURITY , page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 3/13/17
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.orgHello friends, it was another 
short meeting this week. 
A.S. Council will be tabling 
the Monday of Week 8 on Library 
Walk all day as part of the AS 
One Campaign, a campaign to raise 
awareness about A.S. Council and 
students representatives on Council. 
A.S. President Daniel Juarez and 
AVP of Environmental Justice 
Affairs Lesly Figueroa will be visiting 
college councils to talk about the Triton Food Pantry. Starting Week 
8, they will visit the Sixth, Muir and 
Earl Warren College Councils. If 
you are interested in learning more, 
it may be in your best interest to sit 
in during the presentation to your 
local college council. 
Student Sustainability Collective 
gave a presentation in A.S. Council 
where representatives spoke about 
changes being made to their charter 
that will be submitted for approval 
to A.S. Council in the coming weeks. 
Additionally, the presentation 
covered issues such as SSC manager pay, along with the status of 
recent campaigns on food rights, 
environmental policy, public health, 
water, corporate accountability and 
urban development/transportation.  
The presentation also highlighted a 
recent campaign by SSC to instate 
Community Choice Energy in San 
Diego. CCE is a system that allows 
cities to aggregate the buying power 
of individual customers to secure 
alternative energy supply contracts 
on a community-wide basis. CCEs 
are public agencies that take on the 
decision-making role about sources of energy for electricity generation. 
Existing electricity service utility 
companies continue to own and 
maintain the transmission and 
distribution infrastructure; however, 
the source of electricity falls under 
the purview of CCE. 
The Student Sustainability 
Collective have events every week. 
Anyone interested should check out 
their Facebook page. 
Have a good Week 8!Student Sustainability Collective Updates Council on Campaigns, Pay
The A.S. president and AVP of Environmental Justice Affairs are in the process of visiting each college to discuss the Triton Food Pantry.A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. We’re a bad Christian newspaper.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withFollow us @
on  Inst agramucsdguardianNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ORMARCH 2, 20 17
Students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents
can submit the FAFSA online at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA, 
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:www.fafsa.ed.gov
  
Note:   You will be asked to provide 2015 Income Tax information when filing your 2017-18 FAFSA or Califonia 
Dream Act Application.  FAFSA filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
FINANCIAL AID 2017-18REAPPLY FOR
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or 
California Dream Act Application is:
Use UCSD school co de 001317 .
Use UCSD school code 00131700. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 534-4480.Hailey Ragan was one of a handful of 
visitors.
“I was really excited to get together 
with a bunch of people who share 
my passion for video games as well 
as to watch my first live esports 
event, ” Ragan told the Guardian. “The 
weekend was definitely a highlight of 
the year for me, and now I am really 
hoping to come back again next year. ” 
The Sixth College Technology 
Committee held the inaugural Winter 
Gamefest in 2005 as a means of bringing 
gamers and individuals interested in 
gaming together, said Sixth College 
junior Karmah Eldesouky and lead 
planner for this year’s fest. 
“[Winter Gamefest] started off 
as a small scale event with about 30 
people in attendance in the Sixth 
College Lodge and is now not only a 
campus event but also a community 
one, ” Eldesouky said. “What makes [Winter Gamefest] stand out is 
that it promotes and encourages a 
community of students who most 
often times are overlooked and really 
gives them an outlet and opportunity 
to meet one another, which tackles 
the misconception that gaming makes 
individuals antisocial. ”
In order to continue expanding, 
changes are being considered to 
accommodate the event’s growing 
popularity, according to Eldesouky.
“I feel like now that we’ve become 
so large, there’s no going back, and 
we can only move forward and grow 
from here, ” she said. “In the future, I 
really hope that the event will move 
to a larger space that can better 
centralize and host it. Right now, the 
best option and potential location is 
RIMAC Arena, which I think would 
dramatically improve the event. ”▶ GAMEFEST,  from page 1 The Inaugural Winter Gamefest W as Held in 2005.
NADIA LINK    nlink@ucsd.edu
Josh Lefler    jlefler@ucsd.eduArmonie Mendez  aemendez@ucsd.eduone way or another” Delaney said.  
“Some force autophagy into flux 
(metformin and rapamycin), others 
prevent autophagy from resolving 
(chloroquine and nelfinavir) and 
others induce cellular stress which is 
normally cleared by autophagy (all 
of the above and dasatinib). Since 
autophagy is already disrupted by the 
genetics we found from HAPTRIG, 
ovarian cancer cells cannot ameliorate 
the stress caused by these drugs like 
normal cells can.  Thus, proteotoxic 
aggregates form, and the cell dies by 
unregulated cell death (not apoptosis 
or necroptosis). ”
Part of the testing done in the study 
consisted of treating mice that had cell 
grafts from an ovarian cancer patient 
who had tried multiple therapies 
without success. The patient donated 
the cells to the study, and the mouse grafted with her cells was cleared of all 
visible cancer after receiving COAST 
treatment.
Although the mice trials produced 
positive effects resulting from COAST , 
using such a drug mixture in human 
cancer patients poses questions as to 
the extent of the safety of a five-drug 
combination.
“They look safe alone, they’re 
probably safe in small combinations, 
but we’re using five drugs together, ” 
Stupack said. “ A big question now is 
whether or not we can do that in 
people without making them sick. ”
According to Stupack and Delaney, 
the next step is to move from mice to 
the clinic to be able to test if such a 
treatment can prove effective and safe 
in treating ovarian cancer in humans.will be a continuous effort and will 
continue to improve and flourish 
with feedback from the UCSD 
population. 
“We really need to hear back 
from people as to what they find is 
effective, ” Corn said. “It’s astonishing 
how often just one person has the 
insight that really helps improve [a 
campaign] like this. ” 
Corn encouraged those who 
wish to provide feedback for the 
campaign to email security@ucsd.
edu or to contact Corn directly. 
More information and future articles 
will be posted on the IT Security 
website.▶ CANCER,  from page 1 
▶ CYBERSECURITY ,  from page 1 The Researchers Are Concerned That the 
Treatment Will Make Human Patients Sick.Corn: We Need to Find 
a Way to Appeal to 
Students and Faculty.
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
“I can’t hear you, it’s too dark in 
here!” – Patrick Star. I am recently 
suspecting that our elected ringleader is 
playing us with the same empty-headed 
confidence and ignorance that Patrick 
Star uses constantly in SpongeBob. In 
fact, I believe our beloved dignitary is 
the direct manifestation of Patrick Star 
and should be labeled as such.  
Despite this awkward dilemma, I 
sense an impulse in our country, where 
the stout and multifarious pedigree 
of America won’t take this dismissive 
behavior from our squishy pink leader. 
On top of all of this lying nonsense 
and unmitigated foolery that I see 
with our country’s Mr. Dr. Professor 
Patrick, I feel a complete humiliation 
among the world. The world watches 
and weeps as we proceed to shred 
everything positive for the humans 
that undeniably construct our makeup 
and multilevel support system.  
Besides, only having Christian 
white people in our country is boring 
and spawns a dismal echo chamber 
of future habsburgs. No one can just 
sit and watch as the the monocultural 
corn variety all die off in just one 
growing season.    
When our technology, primitive 
human freedoms and just simply 
character, are sacrificed because this 
one cartoon character who lives under 
a rock wants to use his repugnant 
name as our country’s logo, it is time to 
fight back. Get on your phone, get on 
your pineapple, let’s paint his pink skin 
rainbow and fix the unproportional 
mouth that occupies his body. It is our 
destiny to solve what problems have 
been created, and our time to find 
something truly important to define 
just what our generation is made of. 
Our presidential election is void and 
should be dealt with as such. The 
Russian intervention, the electoral 
college, the damned misfortune of 
our current election system.  Let us 
decree a new epoch and turn this 
whole deal upside down. If Patrick Star 
is our country’s burden, we will be the 
SpongeBob renaissance.
Always,
Stig Terrebonne, Junior Electrical 
Engineering, Muir College, San Diego. As the new Trump administration 
has moved toward implementing 
policy, many lobbying groups have 
started to push their influence onto 
the White House. One of them is the 
Goldwater Institute, a libertarian think-
tank, with strong ties to extremely 
right-wing donors and organizations. 
In response to the Milo Yiannopoulos’s 
disinvitation to speak at UC Berkeley, 
the Goldwater Institute published 
model legislation encouraging the 
Trump Administration to require that 
institutions remove their “free speech 
zones” and speech codes alongside 
prohibiting college and universities 
from disinviting controversial 
speakers. The model bill also requires 
institutions to discipline students who 
interfere with the free speech of others 
on campus, citing protesters who 
interrupt speakers.
In 2016, 43 speakers have been met with large protests and opposition 
when attempting to speak on a college 
campus, as compiled by the Foundation 
for Individual Rights in Education. Of 
those 43 speakers, 35 were opposed 
by left-leaning activists while only five 
were opposed by right-leaning activists. 
The remaining three speakers were 
opposed for non-partisan or split issues. 
As a conservative lobbying group, the 
Goldwater Institute, therefore, has a 
concern that its viewpoints are not 
being adequately heard on college 
campuses. However, their concerns 
that free speech is hindered at the 
administrative level are misleading, 
as it was not the administration that 
cancelled the speakers, but rather 
the security teams or the student 
organizations that originally invited 
the speakers. The administration had 
no say in the decision to disinvite Milo 
Yiannopoulos. The problem with the Goldwater 
Institute’s methods of promoting 
new “free speech” legislation is their 
premise that the protests happening 
across college campuses are attacks 
on hosting controversial right-wing 
speakers and, more broadly, on free 
speech. In reality, the protests are 
exercises of the First Amendment. 
When UCSD students gathered at the 
Silent Tree and marched to Galbraith 
Hall in a demonstration against 
the Muslim Ban the Monday after 
President Trump issued an executive 
order temporarily preventing citizens 
from seven majority-Muslim countries 
and refugees from entering the country, 
they were peacefully assembling. 
When campuses erupted in protests 
the night of the election after President 
Trump was declared the winner, they 
were peacefully assembling. And until 
a local group of non-students hijacked the demonstration at UC Berkeley 
and caused mayhem, the students at 
Yiannopoulos’s event were peacefully 
assembling. The Goldwater Institute 
suggests that the actions of students — 
some even non-university-affiliated, as 
at Berkeley — practicing their First 
Amendment Rights were the fault of 
college administrators. At Davis, for 
example, it was the chancellor who 
defended Yiannopolous’s right to 
speak at the university amid student 
protests prior to the event. At UCLA, 
it was the College Republicans who 
disinvited him from the event, not a 
member of administration. 
The ban on “free speech zones” 
and the call for student discipline 
proposed by the Goldwater Institute 
seek to stifle the voices of students 
with whom the Goldwater Institute 
See SPEECH , page 5
Empowerment, Not Entitlement: My Generation YAs protests over controversial speakers erupt 
across college campuses, the Goldwater Institute 
has proposed ‘free speech codes’ which would 
force college administrators to suppress protests 
and protect speakers from disinvitationGoldwater Institute’s Model 
Legislation Promotes their Agenda, 
Not The 1st AmendmentBY GUARDIAN EDITORIAL BOARDLetter to 
the Editor
“Millennials are lazy, narcissistic 
and entitled,” writes the baby 
boomer author of an article 
inevitably containing at least 
one image of a teenager taking a 
selfie. This tired characterization 
seems almost inescapable in the 
discussion of what it means to be 
a member of Generation Y. Yet, 
sweeping generalizations of an 
entire population only perpetuate 
the cycle of blaming younger 
generations. Criticizing, rather than 
understanding, the moral vision of 
young people harmfully devolves the 
understanding of social progression 
and, because of this, mischaracterizes 
and others our generation.
Without acknowledging the shifts 
in ideological framework that have 
taken place over previous decades 
— namely that toward inclusion and 
empathy — there is no potential to 
understand Generation Y beyond 
stereotypes. From baby boomers to 
Generation X to millennials, there 
has been a significant increase 
in diversity in the American 
population, a trend driven by the late 
20th-century wave of Hispanic and Asian immigrants, as expounded by 
Pew Social Trends. Today, half of 
the newborns in America are non-
white. Exposure to a wide breadth of 
values, socioeconomic backgrounds 
and personal histories has allowed 
our generation to develop moral 
relativism and empathy for others. 
As per Pew Research, in America, 68 
percent of millennials favor allowing 
same-sex marriage in comparison 
to 48 percent of baby boomers. 
Seventy-six percent of millennials 
believe immigrants strengthen the 
country through hard work, while 
48 percent of baby boomers say the 
same. Twelve percent of millennials 
are “faithful vegetarians” compared 
to one percent of baby boomers. 
Taken together, these principles look 
less like narcissism and more like 
inclusion and empathy. Through 
open-minded connection to others, 
millennials represent a growing 
trend toward celebrating diversity 
and individual importance.
 Individualism is further 
integrated into cultural networks 
through the advancement of 
technology. Millennials, who grew 
up alongside technology, take 
advantage of its possibilities through both individual expression and 
access to information. Social media 
is an open platform of expression, 
and selfies are a medium of self-
appreciation. These are products 
of the times, forms of regaining 
a sense of self as individualistic 
and powerful. In addition, the 
widespread access to information 
has evolved the relationship toward 
the authority figures traditionally 
guarding information, as elucidated 
by Scott Hess, senior vice president of 
human intelligence for Spark SMG. 
Personal access to information gives 
millennials the capability to question 
authority and develop opinions 
beyond the reaches of our teachers 
and parents. With the world’s 
knowledge at our fingertips, the idea 
of the “individual” is empowered. 
Today, it is more possible than ever 
for one person alone to learn, to 
speak and to create change.
Defining individualism as 
selfishness or entitlement is 
deleterious because it lacks 
historicization. When millennials 
are deemed “narcissistic” because 
of the prevalence of selfies, the 
issue is defined as that of millennial 
devolution instead of a technological evolution. “Can you imagine 
how many frickin’ Instagrams of 
people playing in the mud during 
Woodstock we would’ve seen?” 
asks Hess in his TEDx talk advising 
companies to market towards 
youth. “I think, in many ways, 
you’re blaming millennials for the 
technology that happens to exist right 
now. ” Furthermore, changing moral 
structures leads to novel methods 
of solving problems. Despite lower 
voting rates and lack of patriotism 
compared to previous generations, 
young people are “interested in 
social change and finding creative, 
innovative ways to make a difference 
that are in a way more effective than 
the systems of the past, ” says social 
impact strategist Erica Williams 
Simon. Those who turn to Facebook 
to shed light on a social issue or 
join protests against discriminatory 
legislation are utilizing the tools 
of our generation to be passionate, 
vocal and reactive to injustices, 
and they’re reaching audiences of 
hundreds, even thousands. It’s an 
unapologetic shift in power.
Criticizing youth has been 
commonplace for centuries. Socrates 
is often quoted as saying children “have bad manners, contempt for 
authority. ” In 1990, TIME published 
an editorial complaining about young 
Gen Xers, defining them as having 
short attention spans and “craving 
entertainment. ” Yet, if changing 
social structures follow current 
trends, blaming future generations 
will not only be hypocritical — it will 
be retrogressive. Generations after 
us are only going to further embody 
empowerment, individualism and 
inclusivity. It has already begun 
manifesting in the news industry, 
with outlets, such as Mic, breaking 
barriers in journalism by tailoring 
news to young people. Diversity will 
continue to rise; the U.S. Census 
Bureau even projects a non-white 
majority population by 2043. In 
the words of Megan Tan, the host 
of the “Millennial” podcast, “You 
don’t need to go through a company 
in order to do the thing that you 
want in life anymore. I don’t think 
that’s entitlement; I think that’s just 
a shift in the times and young people 
recognizing that and being able to 
take action. ” 
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
BY AARTHI  VENKAT
aarthi venka t  avenkat@ucsd.eduopinion@ucsdguardian.orgOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
/tritonfoodpantryREVISED NOTICE OF PREPARATION DRAFT 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
MESA HOUSING NUEVO
WEST AND EAST
The University of California is the Lead Agency for the Mesa Housing Nuevo 
West and East project and will prepare a focused environmental impact report 
(EIR) to evaluate the environmental effects of project implementation.  The 
University recently circulated a Notice of Preparation (NOP) for the proposed 
project, but subsequently determined that the proposed project housing density 
should be increased.  Therefore a revised NOP is being reissued for the project.  
The proposed project would consist of two campus housing developments and a 
shared parking structure located on separate, but proximate sites totaling 
approximately 17 acres within the 87 acre Mesa Housing Neighborhood located 
on the East Campus of the University of California, San Diego.  The proposed 
project would replace low-density student housing with higher-density 
apartment buildings that are environmentally responsible in design and 
construction, and address the current demand for affordable on-campus 
housing, which exceeds the supply.  The project would provide a total of 
approximately 1,870 net new beds for graduate students; 80 beds for the UC 
San Diego Family House which provides temporary accommodations for the 
families of patients being treated at Medical Center La Jolla; structured and 
surface parking; and supporting facilities within the Mesa Housing 
Neighborhood. The project would seek to achieve Leadership in Energy 
Efficient Design Gold rating from the U.S. Green Building Council.
In compliance with the State and University of California guidelines for 
implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act, this notice is 
hereby provided to inform the public that the University of California, San 
Diego is preparing a Draft Tiered EIR on the above-named project.
The Notice of Preparation can also be viewed at
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html 
The public scoping period for the Draft EIR will extend from February 
23, 2017 to March 24, 2017.  Any comments regarding the scope and 
content of the project EIR should be directed to Catherine Presmyk, 
UCSD Physical & Community Planning, 9500 Gilman Drive MC 
0074, La Jolla, CA  92093-0074.disagrees in order to promote right-
wing philosophies. Their assertion that 
protesting is dangerous is inherently 
false, especially given the Goldwater 
Institute’s history of defending Tea 
Party activists and conservative 
bloggers. It begs the question of why 
the Goldwater Institute isn’t on the 
side of protesters, who should have 
the freedom to argue against speakers 
they disagree with. This is because the 
Goldwater Institute is not interested 
in protecting the First Amendment, 
but rather quelling ideologies they 
deem disagreeable. We are a nation 
who dumps tea in the harbor, boycotts 
busses and stages protests on college 
campuses. To regulate that in the way 
the Goldwater Institute is proposing 
would damage the sanctity of the First 
Amendment.
The new codes and regulation that 
the Goldwater Institute is advocating for should not be taken lightly. 
Lobbying groups have a trail of laws 
and legislative victories proving their 
success. At the end of the 19th century, 
the American Medical Association 
convinced legislators to constrict 
access to abortion, and in some cases 
criminalize the practice, in order to 
curtain the popularity of midwives 
and monopolize health care in general. 
In the early 1900s, the Immigration 
Restriction League, a group founded in 
response to the influx of immigrants, 
played an influential role in the passing 
of the Immigration Acts of 1921 and 
1924, which established national 
origin quotas intending to limit the 
flow of migration from Southern and 
Eastern Europe, by portraying such 
immigrants as low-skilled, uneducated 
and criminals. More recently, in 
2012, Big Tobacco managed to defeat 
Proposition 29 on the California 
ballot that would have increased the 
tax on cigarette by $1 and donated all the additional revenue to cancer 
research. With a Republican Congress, 
president and many state legislatures, 
the Goldwater Institute has a real 
chance of influencing changes to the 
way the rights guaranteed by the First 
Amendment are enacted on college 
campuses. Already, there have been 
several bills introduced across several 
states designed to limit the ability of 
protesters and curb the power of the 
First Amendment. 
Unfortunately, the current 
administration is listening: Trump 
himself tweeted that he would like 
to see Berkeley lose federal funds 
for the cancellation of Yiannopolous 
at the campus. This sentiment — 
one legitimized by the office of the 
president, on a public platform — is 
misleading in its scapegoating of the 
University of California and dangerous 
in this respect. ▶ SPEECH, from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
editorial board  opinion@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
The Armenian Genocide of 1915, which saw the extermination of 1.5 million Armenians in the Ottoman 
Empire, holds a significant place in the hearts of many Armenian-Americans even today, more than a 
century later. Hripsime “Rips” Karadjian, Revelle senior and cultural chair leader of the Armenian Genocide 
Commemoration Committee, described to The Guardian some of the horrors that took place.
“They imprisoned and tried to deport all of these men and the intellectuals from their villages and towns, leaving 
the elderly, women and children behind to fend for themselves. Later they decided to send all of them on death marches 
and kill them along the way, ” Karadjian said.
Originally a well-off nation that thrived on trade, Armenia suffered from the advent of religious conflict in the late 
19th century between the mostly Christian Armenians and the Islamic Ottoman Empire that ruled the country. During 
the Ottomans’ struggle with Russia in World War I, the “Y oung Turks” who governed the Empire decided to relocate the 
Armenians in their territory who, living close to the border with Russia, were seen as a possible threat to the war effort; 
because they were Christian it was feared that they would side with mostly-Christian Russia. An estimated 600,000 to 
1,000,000 Armenians perished in the resulting forced marches from 1915 to 1916. 
“We kind of want it to [be recognized] by the intellectual community as being on the same namesake level as the 
Holocaust, even though we realize that the numbers [for the Holocaust] were much larger, because Hitler’s inspiration 
for the Holocaust did come from the Armenian Genocide, ” Karadjian said.
One of the ways the Armenian Students Association at UCSD aims to bring recognition to the genocide is through 
its annual protest, which this year was held at the Silent Tree in front of Geisel Library on Feb. 9. The guidelines for 
the protest provided by “ All-ASA, ” an organization which oversees ASAs in campuses throughout America, called for a 
decidedly different protest from the kind most college students are used to seeing and hearing about. In shifts of 12 to 
15 members, the members of ASA gathered around the Silent Tree and held up eye-catching red and black posters with 
slogans such as “Tomorrow’s Intellectuals Against Genocide. ” Perhaps what was the most striking was the red tape they 
all wore over their mouths, with the word “DENIAL ” written in dark black ink.
“The red tape is symbolic of the years of silencing they’ve had; post genocide, the Ottoman Empire censored 
everything and made sure no one was talking about what happened, ” Karadjian explained. To this day, the Republic of 
Turkey refuses to call the event a genocide.
“They’re constantly in denial of it, ” Karadjian said.
This is the main reason why the ASA practices silent protests as opposed to a louder approach to gain people’s 
attention.
“It’s unique, and it’s very symbolic of the way that they were silenced for so many years. Also, I feel like it unsettles 
people, ” said Karadjian. In fact, the gesture made the protesters appear more open and approachable: Students came 
up to them and asked questions about the genocide and other ASA awareness events, during which the ASA members 
took the tape off. 
However, not everyone is accepting of their cause on campus. Other protestors, the not-so-silent ones, can often 
present problems. One man in particular, a preacher who regularly visits campus and loudly advocates Christianity, has 
had many run its with ASA members.
“ At last year’s genocide awareness week he came up to our group every single day and talked to me for at least a 
half hour, discussing the historical validity of the Armenian Genocide, and saying that the countries in that region 
weren’t only explicitly after Armenians, ” Karadjian told the UCSD Guardian. “He studied history at UC Berkeley and 
approached us when there was only three of us left at the end of our protest and just stood behind us, waiting. And I 
knew that he wanted to talk to us, and I just wasn’t acknowledging his presence because I didn’t want to get into it again 
and there’s no reason for me to expound any more energy trying to explain this to him. I’m pretty sure he’s gonna be 
there this April too. ”
The preacher has apparently based his theories on a couple of college classes on the Ottoman Empire, and even 
brings quotes from textbooks to prove his point.
“I mean, I’m a very open-minded person, I’ve read what he said, and I have respect for everyone’s opinions and 
beliefs, but to continuously pester students who are protesting … I just don’t see a point to it. That man honestly is just 
a whirlwind, ” Karadjian said, exasperated. “Let’s get down to it: 1.5 million people of a certain race died from a sought-
out attack, being deemed unworthy for being Christian — that was the whole root of it. ”
 Karadjian is used to dealing with the feeling of being marginalized. Growing up as Armenian but also half Filipino 
in predominantly Armenian Glendale, she often faced instances of racism.UC San Diego’s student body 
prides itself on exercising free 
speech and frequently carrying 
out protests on campus, 
especially as of late. One that 
stands out is the Armenian-
American Students’ silent voice 
to speak out against the genocide 
that almost destroyed an entire 
race and how it still affects 
millions who live today.
SeeARMENIAN GENOCIDE , page 7Shouting  
in  Silence 
The  Protest  to  Recognize  
the  Armenian  Genocide
by Susanti Sarkar//
Features Editorial AssistantPhoto courtesy of the UCSD ASAFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Professor Norman Bryson stands out in more ways 
than one. As a lecturer, he is easily recognizable by his 
British accent and impassioned tone. He readily voices 
his opinion, but is also just as quick to make self-deprecating 
jokes. Typically, his outfit includes a baseball cap, fanny pack 
and polo shirt that reveals his tattoo sleeves. On top of all these 
idiosyncrasies, Bryson is an art history professor at a university 
where science takes the spotlight. 
Born in Scotland, Bryson was the only member of his family 
who chose not to become involved in film, instead exploring 
his own interests by pursuing art history.
“My family wondered why I didn’t study something that 
mattered, like film, ” he recalled.
Nevertheless, Bryson studied art history at the University of 
Cambridge, and then moved back and forth between America 
and the United Kingdom as he taught at the University 
of Cambridge, Harvard University and the University of 
Rochester. At the University of Rochester, Bryson founded the 
visual and cultural studies program, which requires students to 
engage in comprehensive studies spanning film, comparative 
literature and art history.
“It became quite popular. UC Irvine even copied it, ” Bryson 
said, citing the impact of his program, which was innovative 
in its integration of pop culture into the school curriculum. 
The result is an educational experience that immerses students 
in highly relevant topics across a broad range of humanities 
courses.
After waiting for an appropriate time to leave his daughter 
in the UK while she finished school, Professor Bryson moved 
to California with his partner. 
“When my daughter started arguing with me and giving me 
attitude, I knew it was a good time to leave, ” he laughed.
Once he arrived in California, some of his old students who 
were involved with UC San Diego helped him land his current 
position at the university. Compared to the UK universities he 
had worked at, UCSD has a more laid back atmosphere, which 
Bryson appreciates.
“My colleagues here are loud and raucous. They’re real 
people, ” he remarked excitedly, distinguishing them from his 
more serious colleagues back at Cambridge.
The rigidity of the UK universities extends into their 
curriculum as well. Terms are typically eight weeks long, and 
graduate students lack a sense of community as their classes are 
comprised of only one or two students.
“I would much rather prefer big class sizes that I can 
disappear into, ” Bryson chuckled, recalling his own shy 
demeanor as a graduate student. “That’s why I teach my classes such that you don’t have to say a word. ”
Unfortunately, Bryson also finds fault with the academic 
environment of UCSD. The school is becoming increasingly 
focused on the sciences, forcing the arts and humanities into 
the background.
“It’s terrible!” Bryson exclaimed. “It’s appalling how uneven 
it is here. ”
At the most prestigious universities, such as Harvard, 
different subjects are funded more equally and are generally 
regarded with the same importance. Bryson, who comes from 
this culture of uniformity among academic focuses, finds that 
universities in the UK are also much more charitable toward the 
arts. At UCSD, however, the arts and humanities are not only 
less popular majors among students, but their corresponding 
departments also receive less funding than the sciences do. 
“The school is contributing to an overproduction of 
scientists. They’ll regret it in the long run, ” Bryson opined.
 He also noted the new perspective of art among millennials 
as an act of rebellion. 
This generation of college students is so fixated on science 
that arts and humanities students, especially those at science-
inclined universities like UCSD, have identified as and 
empowered themselves with a minority status.
“Millennials who choose to study art are priding themselves 
in going against the norm. It’s really very interesting. ”
In addition to equal funding, Bryson believes that the arts 
should receive equal attention and respect from the UCSD 
community and be seen as a legitimately important part of life.
“ Art is everywhere in our terribly visual culture, ” he 
remarked, going on to explain how we encounter artistic 
elements in everything from social media to architecture. “Y ou 
don’t have to study art. You’re living it. ” 
Bryson further believes that art is more useful than science 
for exploring the human experience.
“Psychology used to be great around the age of Freud, 
when it was a revolutionary discipline that sought to prove the 
interiority of human beings, ” he claimed. “But now it appears 
that the human psyche is more mappable by the arts than by 
psychology. ” Continuing to explain how art is significant in 
that it requires introspection, Bryson remarked, “If I browse 
the Internet for four or five hours, I’m losing my sense of 
interiority. There’s no inner thought taking place. I’m just going 
through the motions. But it takes skill to draw on inner thought 
by producing art. It’s a skill we’re less in touch with in this day 
and age. ” 
Still, Bryson concedes that those who study arts and 
humanities face the struggle of being less employable down the road. 
“I get a lot of my friends coming up to me telling me how 
their parents have forced them into some scientific career path, 
when really they just want to be an artist. And I don’t know 
exactly what to say, ” he said with a chuckle. “I tell them, ‘Don’t 
quit your day job. ’”
People also commonly struggle to see the usefulness of an 
art degree. Bryson agrees that studying art, and the attainment 
of knowledge in general, can appear to be a means of mere 
social advancement.
“Education is very hierarchical in many ways. You have to 
wonder whether people are learning things just so they can 
place themselves above those who don’t know what they do, ” 
he commented.
In spite of these common struggles among arts and 
humanities students, Bryson believes that no one should be 
worried about pursuing a subject that they enjoy.
“If you’re drawn to art and you’re doomed to study it, then 
let nothing stop you. Those who doubt you will be wrong in 
the end. ” 
Past generations saw universities as more of a direct step 
toward financial success, but newer generations understand 
that having a college degree does not guarantee employment. 
Bryson also pointed out how the perceived significance of a 
college degree has changed from one generation to the next. 
“Before, it was believed that as long as you were educated, 
no matter what you’ d studied, that there’ d be a job for you at the 
end of the degree, ” he remarked. 
Moreover, there is a discrepancy in the employability of 
students from state universities and more prestigious schools 
that is based on name alone. Bryson posited his own solution 
to this issue. 
“Universities need to be more upfront about what they can 
do and what they can’t do. They should not be misleading about 
what happens after you graduate. ”
While a university education does not guarantee that you 
will be transported into a world of success, Bryson believes that 
attending university is instrumental to a student’s growth as an 
individual. For students of all disciplines, a college education 
fosters open-mindedness and the ability to question the world 
around them — everything from what they are taught to the 
purpose of their own academic goals.
“In the end, ” Bryson concluded, “university is about inciting 
doubt. It’s about making you less manipulable. ”
Jade Wong  jknowshi@ucsd.eduBEHIND THE LECTERN
Norman Bryson – The Plight of the College StudentBy Jade Wong  / / Contributing Writer“I’m just as Armenian as the other kids I went to high school with, but because I don’t look typically Armenian, 
because of my eyes and because of my skin tone, I did experience a lot of racism in the Armenian community growing 
up, ” she told the Guardian.
Although for a time in her life she shunned her culture in favor of exploring a world outside “Little Armenia, ” (as 
Glendale is often known), she rediscovered her love for her culture through ASA when she came to UCSD as a junior 
transfer student. Consequently, she hopes that more students will join.
“There are people who come to college from Armenian-American centralized communities and don’t really want to 
be associated with Armenians just because they’re at a time in their lives where they want to escape it, but ASA really 
encourages fostering a homey feeling, ” said Karadjian. “I’ve made so many friends here who I didn’t think I would 
initially be close to. It’s a learning experience with this leadership opportunity, and I’ve learned how to try and take 
control of situations and have people respond to it. ” 
Another member and historian of ASA, Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Anahit Topachyan also extolled the 
benefits of joining ASA.
“ All my family and friends have been members of ASA and been on the board, so I grew up knowing I would be part 
of it and help organize events, ” said Topachyan. “We wanted to raise awareness of not just the Armenian genocide, but 
all genocides in history that aren’t being spoken about, so we thought a silent sit-in was the best way to show that we 
recognize, we see it, but we don’t really talk about it. ”
This protest was just a precursor leading up to the main events that will take place during Genocide Awareness Week 
in April, which will commemorate the 102nd anniversary of the Genocide and promote a better understanding of what 
actually happened.
Karadjian emphasized the importance of remembering the genocide by citing a famous quote attributed to Hitler. 
“‘Who, after all, speaks today of the annihilation of the Armenians?’ Um, us, ” Karadjian retorted. “ As an Armenian 
population, we do! And basically we want everyone to know and accept that the Armenian Genocide did happen and 
that so many people were massacred, ” she told the Guardian.
During Genocide Awareness Week, ASA will host a candlelight vigil, a priest from an Armenian church and, as a 
highlight, a tent-like setup which will portray the true stories of people (such as great-grandparents of students) affected 
by the genocide: tales of war and fleeing from the Ottoman soldiers.
Topachyan further explained how this massacre is significant to the lives of every single Armenian, even in America, 
whether they realize it or not.
“My great grandpa — all his siblings died, and it was up to him alone to fight and survive. He was two years old. 
Without him, I wouldn’t be here, you know? Like it’s crazy, how that literally affected all Armenians, ” she told the 
Guardian. “There’s literally no one Armenian who hasn’t been affected by the genocide. Everyone has a story. ”
Topachyan believes that Armenian students should shed their hesitation and join ASA because of the many cultural 
benefits it offers.
“I’m disappointed that not all American-Armenians join. A lot of these students are like, Americanized? Like they 
don’t want to be a part of the Armenian community. Maybe they had bad experiences or connotations, but we are very 
welcoming of everyone who wants to join and support. We want to be united, ” she said.
“It’s a big part of my college experience: it’s how I met my roommate, and I have an unbreakable bond with all my 
friends there. ”▶ ARMENIAN GENOCIDE , from page 6
Susanti Sarkar  s5sarkar@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The Best of the Best, 
A&E Chooses 2016’s 
Most Worthy Films, 
Oscar-Style Guardian 
Choice 
Awa r d s
Best Animal Performance: The Dog 
from “A Dog’s Purpose”
Harvey Levin hates hard unpaid work, thus hating the very foundation of these United 
States. All that working-class dogs want in their dog-years on Earth is to pull themselves up 
by their bootie straps and provide a decent life for their 12 children. Levin, the devil clad in 
black V-necks, instead decides to publish the fake video of a distressed stunt dog being held 
gently above a churning pool. Shame on TMZ for trying to capitalize on Americans’ love of 
dogs, misinformation and poor work conditions. As for the dog, he turned in a more lively 
performance than Dennis Quaid, who purportedly got lost at a Tucson flea market 10 years ago.
—  Sam Velazquez  
A&E EditorMost Emphatically Not Racist:  
“Race”
Unlike most dying of old age, Hollywood has adopted a new expressly anti-racist bent in her 
twilight years. We’ve been gifted with a year saturated by the sorts of films you usually only ever 
enjoy against your will, over a period of several days, after having given your history teacher a 
special waiver. Many vied for the title of least racist, but “Race” wins — it’s even called “Race. ” Y ou’re 
a fan? Congratulations, you don’t hate scores of people you’ve never met for no rational reason! 
Haven't you any more virtuous virtues to signal?
—   Susie  Da vidson
 Senior Staff Writer
Best Biopic:  
“Assassin’s Creed” 
Fassbender’s portrayal of parkour enthusiast and part-time hitman Aguilar 
de Nerha is a riveting one. Best known for his work in acrobatic bungee 
jumping — without the cord — de Nerha once survived a 592-foot jump 
from the Sevilla Tower by breaking his fall with a haystack. Set during the 
Granada W ar of 1492, “ Assassin’s Creed” follows de Nerha’s journey 
through troubled times, and ultimately, his founding of the Spanish 
Freerunning Society. The film is chock-full of revelations for history 
buffs, and it explores the importance of both brotherhood and unity 
in times of war.
—   Derek Deng
 Senior Staff WriterBest Psychological Thriller:  “Finding 
Dory”
“Finding Dory” opens unlike many psychological thrillers by letting viewers know the exact 
problem Dory faces from the first moment. Even though we know what is wrong with the titular 
character, it oddly helps draw us deeper into the film so that we physically and emotionally 
experience the trials she goes through. The building tension is overshadowed by the Disney-
approved mindfuckery and emotional drainage the director creates in order to keep viewers on the 
edge of their seats. Bursting with unplumbed mysteries, “Finding Dory” is deeper than the ocean, 
which definitely makes it worth a rewatch.
—   Rachel Novotny
 Senior Staff WriterMost Versatile Actor:  Kevin Hart
Following several years of being boxed in and typecast by Hollywood 
elites as what many in the industry call a “Kevin Hart type, ” Kevin Hart has 
transcended his former personality to become something new, something 
bigger, something better: alt-Kevin Hart. Mimicking the career of alt-right 
disciple Steve Bannon, alt-Hart has taken on a plethora of roles. These include 
a supporter of an extrajudicial police force (check), an idiot thrust into the national 
intelligence community (check), a malevolent bunny rabbit who’s angrier than he 
should be (check) and a stage puppet known for cracking jokes left and alt-right 
while becoming rich (million-dollar check). What now, liberals?
—   Jacky To
 Senior Staff Writer
Best Children’s Movie: “Sausage 
Party”
Few films inspire the imagination of a wide-eyed child like “Sausage Party, ” the tale of titular 
sausage Frank and his journey to rescue girlfriend Brenda and all her bunly goodness. From the 
opening musical number, which features ignorant grocery items happily singing on their 
shelves, “Sausage Party” brings the food we eat to life, compelling any child to play 
with their food while being haunted by the souls of all the Goldfish crackers they once 
brutally chewed to pieces. With its loveable characters, tasteful racial humor and pro-
drug message, “Sausage Party” is this generation’s “Wizard of Oz. ”
—   Naft ali  burak ovsky
 Associate A&E Editor
A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Best Lonergan:  Kenneth Lonergan
This one was close, folks. A true photo finish, if I’ve ever seen one. Hands down, 
we spent the most time ferociously debating this essential and extremely consequential 
category. At one point, our editor even thumbed me in the eye when I tried to suggest 
we get rid of it altogether. One might ask, what makes a great Lonergan? We here at the 
UCSD Guardian defined three criteria. First, they must possess United States citizenship. 
Surprisingly, this didn’t narrow down the contenders at all. Second, they must love “Sex and 
the City 2” — a nearly impossible feat that delivered to us our shining final four. Third, their 
last name has to be Lonergan. Since all four passed this bar, we picked Kenneth’s name out 
of a hat. Congrats, Kenny!
—   Jacky To
 Senior Staff Writer
Most Tragic On-Screen Death:  “Sully”
Last year saw countless tragic deaths and inexplicable violence, from the untimely death of 
heptapod Abbott in “ Arrival” to the death of the DC Cinematic Universe itself in “Batman v 
Superman: Dawn of Justice. ” Y et nothing compares to the sheer carnage of the opening of “Sully” in 
which pilot Sully Sullenberger (Tom Hanks) mercilessly brutalizes and murders a flock of innocent 
geese with a jet engine. God only knows what those geese experienced as they were sucked into a 
turbine, never to migrate south again. It’s difficult to imagine how their flock picked up the pieces 
after this sudden and senseless tragedy.
—   Naft ali  burak ovsky
 Associate A&E Editor
Breakthrough Performance: Robert 
“Bobby” De Niro in “Dirty Grandpa”
It’s a new era, people! Hollywood has proven that age truly is just a number. Y ou 
can forget about Woody Allen’s tarnished past and, just like public opinion, stop 
pretending to care outside of awards season. Newcomer Robert De Niro steals the 
spotlight in “Dirty Grandpa” as the dirty grandpa — a liver-spotted and loveless 
veteran who manages to keep up a charming disposition even in the worst of times. 
How? Simple: There are no follies of youth to worry about. De Niro shines as DG (our 
Dirty Grandpa, not Delta Gamma) and, barring any geriatric dangers, is sure to become 
a Hollywood mainstay.
—  Sam Velazquez  
A&E Editor
Best Film: Suicide Squad (Trailer)
“I Started a Joke”
“Bohemian Rhapsody” (Remix)
“Y ou Don’t Own Me” 
“The Ballroom Blitz”
“Heathens”
These songs are as edgy as your eighth-grade cousin who dyed his hair three months ago. These songs say, “This is badass, and so are you, stud!” These songs assure you 
of your coolness as you eat lunch alone. Y eah, the “Suicide Squad” trailer really was something else — classic, gorgeously-edited, smooth. Featuring Will Smith’s dead-eyed 
existential despair, this is a work for the ages. Who needs full-length movies when you’ve already got 90 seconds of heaven delivered in such a neat, bite-sized package?
—  Alicia Lepler
A&E Editorial AssistantBest Bollywood Film:  “La La Land”
With an opening so mind-blowing garish baby angels wept to see it, “La La Land” is as 
Indian as apple pie. Bask in the sultry glow of a properly exotic film and savor the taste of 
culture with this offering from across the Atlantic. I’m certain that our Bollywood cousins tried 
their darnedest to make “La La” American-friendly, but even so, it has the telltale flavor of a 
singularly Eastern work. Truly, this is a worthy offering from those fine foreigners — why, “La 
La Land” might even merit an Oscar nomination.
— Alicia Lepler
A&E Editorial Assistant
“The  MAGA nificent  Seven ”
Putin:  “The Meddler ” 
Runners-Up: “Where to Invade Next, ” 
“A  Mo n s t e r  C a l l s”
Trump:  “X-Men: Apocal ypse ” 
Runners-Up: “Fences, ” “Me Before Y ou, ” 
“Rules Don’t Apply”
Fl ynn:  “Our Kind of Traitor ”
Runners-Up: “The Infiltrator, ” “The 
Secret Life of Pets”Bannon:  “Birth of a Na tion ” 
Runners-Up: “Captain America: Civil 
War,” “Hail, Caesar”
Pence:  “Weiner ” 
Runners-Up: “Sausage Party, ” “Dirty 
Grandpa, ” “Moonlight”
Spicer:  “The Boss ” 
Runners-Up: “Ghostbusters, ” “ Angry 
Birds”
Sessions:  “Meet the 
Black s ” 
Runners-Up:  “Boo: A Madea 
Halloween, ” “Selma, ” “Barbershop 3”
10                                          T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
FASHIONI am the last person you should take fashion advice from. Whenever my 
friends ask me, “which one looks better?” my answer usually contrasts with 
the group consensus. My suggestion would lead to you being underdressed 
for the occasion. My closet looks as empty as someone who hasn’t done laundry in 
months, and what’s there mostly consists of different-colored long sleeve T-shirts 
with an occasional V-neck for when I feel like making a fashion statement. So 
rather than giving you advice on what to wear, I will give you advice on how 
to make the most of whatever assortment of fabric you choose to adorn your 
body with.
How frequently do you go shopping? Do you always need something new to 
add to your wardrobe? Probably not. Unless someone can make that dad joke 
about your clothes being so holy that they belong in a church, you can probably 
make do with whatever you already have. When it really comes down to it, people 
won’t notice you re-wearing clothes if you cycle through everything over the 
course of a few weeks, especially if you switch up how you wear it. Throw on a 
scarf or some hard core necklaces with the other pair of shoes that you own. Well 
don’t you feel fancy now?
I know some of you change your wardrobe frequently due to a change in style. 
What do you do with the clothes you no longer want? Donate them. Even better, 
donate them to one of those used clothing stores like thredup.com, Crossroads 
Trading Co. or Thrift Trader where you receive cash or credit for your clothes that 
you can put toward buying used clothes in excellent condition. By doing this you 
save money on your new wardrobe, and you give back by reducing the waste from 
clothes that are trashed with every new fashion season. Some people may like last 
season’s fashion more than what's currently trendy, so it’s the perfect solution for 
them as well. Y our used clothes will go to good use.
Buying new clothes every season gets expensive and wasteful quickly. By 
donating what doesn’t match your taste and buying gently used clothing from 
thrifty boutiques, you save money and reduce fabric waste. Try to avoid buying 
a new top for every day of the month, and instead purchase accessory pieces like 
scarves to change up how a certain top is styled. If you do it just right, people won’t 
even notice that you’re still just wearing a plain T-shirt and rather that the T-shirt/
scarf combo really looks “on point. ”How To Live Your Life By an ESYS Major: Fashion and Sustainability 
by Nadia Link // Contributing Writer
STYLE:  CASUAL
INGRID NILSEN
Lover of jeans and checkered Vans, Ingrid Nilsen has a fresh and effortless style. A 
series called “Fashion Fourplay” displays four different ways, usually ranging from 
comfy to dressy, to style an item of clothing, whether it be an oversized sweater 
or booties. Though her videos now stray more from fashion since the start of her 
channel, they’re still worth a watch: Her voice and relaxing music immediately 
calm any viewer. Plus, many of her lifestyle videos deal with combating life’s 
stressors in effective ways. 
TESS CHRISTINE
If you want to dress like an Instagram model, Tess Christine’s channel is a good 
place to start. She shows how to take common trends, like neck scarves, off-the-
shoulder shirts or nonprescription glasses, and execute them in everyday life. 
Christine also reuses a lot of pieces, especially in her “Outfits Of The Week” 
videos, demonstrating that you don’t need a lot of clothing to dress well. Her “Get 
the Look” series also shows how to dress like popular actors or characters — for 
an affordable price. 
JAIRWOO
Palm springs native JairWoo shows that comfy can look good. Though he 
employs the usual male fashion pieces like joggers, hoodies or sneakers, Woo 
combines them in ways that make them look like more than just pajamas or 
lounge clothes. Each outfit in his lookbooks usually vary by type, ranging from 
very casual to semi-dressy. His mix of fashion, hairstyle, exercise and other 
lifestyle videos provide a good base for any modern man to go back to. 
STYLE: MINIMALIST
THELINEUP
Julia Dang and Maya Nilsen are best friends who show that simple doesn’t have 
to be boring. Their style is minimalistic, focusing on transforming basic, neutral 
pieces into wearable outfits. Since these two are natives to the colder Swedish 
climate, their videos put more of an emphasis on layering, especially in the 
winter months, but the duo also has vlogs from travel destinations all over the 
world, most recently Morocco, South Korea and Japan.What to Wear: Youtubers to Watchby Annika Olives // Lifestyle Associate Editor
Want to up your fashion game but don’t know where to 
start? Take some inspiration from this mix of young people 
dedicated to sharing their styles with the world. 
TOTHE9S
ToThe9s was created by Vancouver college students Cassie Masangkay and Ricci 
Pamintuan. Like TheLineUp, their style is straightforward — uncomplicated 
pieces put together for a chic look. Other than lookbooks and monthly favorites 
videos, Masangkay and Pamintuan make videos focusing specifically on trends, 
like how to style fur collars or blanket scarves, along with a variety of DIYs and 
Q&As. There is a bit of men’s fashion present on this channel through collabs as 
well. 
STYLE: EDGY 
CLOTHESENCOUNTERS
One of the first things I learned from watching LA-based Y ouTuber Jenn Im is 
that if you’re going to go with a monochromatic outfit, switch up the textures. 
Im’s style focuses on how to seamlessly integrate edgier pieces into your daily 
wardrobe. Her snarky personality shines through her voiceovers, and she’s one 
to watch if you don’t have a lot of time since her videos are on the shorter end. 
Some of my favorites are part of the “What Would Jenn Wear” series, where 
viewers can send in questions about clothing dilemmas for specific situations. 
IAMKARENO
Eclectic and fun, Karen Y eung brings a unique perspective to the fashion sphere. 
Inspired “by the toughness of the city and the lax suburban lifestyle, ” Y eung 
proves that she’s not afraid to take risks with her clothing. Employing a mixture 
of young and old pieces, colorful backgrounds and sometimes her own poetry, 
Y eung’s videos often straddle the line between fashion videos and fashion as a 
form of artistic expression.
DREW SCOTT
LA Y ouTuber Drew Scott takes the latest runway trends and puts them on the 
streets. He takes pride in his cinematography through his ethereal music choices 
and varied shots, which add to the artistry of his videos. Other than lookbooks, 
Scott has lifestyle videos about all sorts of topics, like jewelry, money-saving tips 
or home decor. In “What Would Drew Wear, ” Scott takes one of Jenn Im’s popular 
segments and adapts it for his own channel. What’s unique about Scott is that 
many of his outfits are unisex, making his videos useful for anyone. LIFESTYLE         THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
FASHIONUC San Diego students face quite an uphill battle (literally) in order to 
dress in a presentable fashion. The pressure to conform to a part of a 
group in college eliminates any little effort we students give to the daily 
commitment of picking out clothes. Ultimately, the stereotype more or less holds 
true: Everyone in college consequently looks the same.
There are, I believe, three main reasons to this phenomenon. 
The first is financial. New clothes — much less, elegant clothes — cost a lot. 
And no one expects you to have your own personal style if we all go shopping 
at Forever 21 or online through Asos. We need money to buy food, books or 
that special something for that special someone. But there are also other brands 
in the same price range. Expand your horizons. Or take advantage of sales on 
more obscure, upscale brands. British brands like Ben Sherman or Fred Perry 
are pretty expensive but often have 50 to 70 percent off sales, offering high-scale 
clothing at Goodwill pricing. Go thrift shopping. And my personal favorite, steal 
your parents’ clothes that they don’t wear anymore, and bring them into the 21st 
century.
The second is time. Time is of the essence when making decisions in college, 
and heck, nobody has the time for picking out clothes. The 8 a.m. lectures pile up 
in college, and with all nighters, you don’t want to spend more than five seconds 
picking out whichever top and bottom you might wear. There is an easy fix to 
that — plan ahead. If you’re good at planning homework time and food-prep 
time, then you should be able to plan outfits. Now I get not all of us necessarily 
have time for this, myself included, but if you set aside just five minutes to shuffle 
through your clothes, it could provide you with a big positive confidence boost, 
‘cause, girl, you look good.
The last, and perhaps most important, is that SoCal culture and weather make 
it a real pain to dress up. Part of looking good resides in the layering of clothes. 
How can you look classy when only wearing a T-shirt? But then, why wear heavy, 
and sometimes uncomfortable, clothes if it is over 80 degrees outside? Why 
wear expensive and color-coordinated clothes if everyone around you is wearing 
leggings and tank tops, or joggers with some color block T-shirt. I guess there is 
no real answer to that except for be bold. Dare to wear something different. Dare 
to mix and match colors that are not exclusively black, white or teal. If you want 
to look like everybody else, then it is your choice, but if you dare to be different, 
don’t let the weather or the money stop you.College Fashion Statement: There is a way to differentiate yourself
by Marcus Thuillier//Editor in Chief
And my personal favorite, 
steal your parents’ clothes 
that they don’t wear 
anymore, and bring them into 
the 21st century.”
“12                                      T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
FORMALS
tY our underwear line might show through that dress. Better to just go 
commando. That’s one less piece of clothing to wash, and for every 
season from now on, sustainability is IN!
tDrape your bed sheets over yourself as an elegant gown; only a few 
people will be sober enough to notice. 
tY ou left your deodorant at home. Don’t sweat it — there’s a ton of chalk 
powder in classrooms available for your convenience. Feel free to use the 
erasers as your applicators. 
INTERVIEWS
tY ou forgot you had an interview today. Easy fix: Tape some LEGOs to 
the heel of your sliders to resemble the perfect professional two-inch 
heel. 
tNo LEGOs? Also an easy fix: Jenga blocks double beautifully as DIY 
wedges. 
tLodge a piece of fresh greenery between your two front teeth before 
going into the interview. It will really showcase your strong commitment 
to your vegan diet. 
tDon’t be drab! Wear a tracksuit to the meeting, to prove to your managers 
that you’re always ready to run circles around your competition. 
EVERYDAY WEAR
tGot high quality, new looking denim? Wrong. Slit some holes in the 
knees so that you get that freshly-fallen-off-the-skateboard look.
tTired of the impracticality of your purse? Carry a full-on lunch box for 
your snack treasures instead, so that your actually important cargo items 
will feel more at home. 
tIf you want to be cute in the cold, don’t forget to add padding to your 
bra so no one can see how cold your girls really are, and you can stay 
sneezy, breezy, beautiful. 
tPick out two outfits for the week. Wear the first one on Monday; wear 
it again on Tuesday. Save the second one for Wednesday and Thursday. 
Did you really outfit repeat if you don’t see the same people?
tIt’s raining and you don’t have an umbrella. What do you think 
textbooks are for? Bind them to the top of your head and you’ve not only 
dodged a bullet on soaking clothing, but you’ve also managed to make 
a fashion statement. We’ll call it, “Cloudy With a Chance of Metabolic 
Biochemistry. ”
YOU’RE WELCOME. by Jocelyn Yang and Tara Nejad//Staff Writers
Fashion Faux Better or Faux Worse
Time for spring cleaning? Family or friends secretly nominate 
you for a humiliating episode of “What Not to Wear?”  No 
worries — your friends Stacy and Clinton are here to help 
throw away all of your fashion no-nos and replace them with 
the season’s hottest tips and newest trends. CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
DUBLIN GUITAR QUARTET
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL TahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 27 - MAR 52017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 2.27 WED3.01FRIDAY 3.03  • 8pm
THU3.02
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE2.28
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - GREAT 
HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of the 
world in which we live. The Global Forum is a 
program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through 
speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
JOIN THE EQUILIBRIUM RESEARCH 
JOURNAL TEAM! - ONLINE
Are you a Warren student? Are you interested in 
undergraduate research? Join The Equilibrium’s 
editorial team today! Funded by the Warren 
Provost’s office, The Equilibrium team annually 
reviews, edits, and publishes research conducted 
by Warren undergraduates in all fields of study. 
We’re looking for passionate individuals to be the 
next Student editors, Design editors, and Public 
relations officers! Email: 
warrenEquilibrium@gmail.com. Online 
publication: www.tinyurl.com/equilibriumvol2. 
Contact: ktongpra@ucsd.edu 
NOMINATIONS FOR WARREN 
COLLEGE'S BEARL AWARDS FOR 
PRINCIPLES OF COMMUNITY - 
NOMINATION SUBMISSION ONLINE
Warren College will honor individuals and groups 
who exemplify the UC San Diego Principles of 
Community on April 22 at an Academe Awards 
celebration. The "BEARLS" honors five members of 
the Warren College community for excellence in 
upholding these principles. Nomination 
submissions are open until March 1 at 11:59 PM 
at http://warren.ucsd.edu/programs/bearls.html. 
Contact: waprovost@ucsd.edu
CGI U EARLY BIRD APPLICATION 
DEADLINE - ONLINE
The Clinton Global Initiative University is a 
conference held in October that brings together 
leaders who want to make a difference. Attendees 
are required to make a Commitment to Action that 
addresses a current, real world social issue. There 
is $75,000 of funding available for award winning 
plans.Students who complete the application by 
the early bird deadline may receive stipends that 
will assist in covering costs for attending the 
conference. Contact: clettieri@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu10am
YOGA ZONE: RESTORATIVE - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
In truth, restorative yoga is simply that - 
restorative. The props assist in helping you to hold 
poses longer. Led by FitLife instructor Laura, this 
free program is on first come, first serve basis. 
Blocks and yoga mats provided.  Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
12pm
CREATIVITY AND PURPOSE: THE 
NIA CULTURAL ORGANIZATION 
AND BLACK POWER - SEUSS 
ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
Drawing from his research, Mychal Odom, UC San 
Diego History doctoral candidate, will explain how 
the NIA’s efforts continued the work of Black Power 
and laid the very important ground for 
anti-apartheid struggles in San Diego during 
1970/80s. Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGAN 
MAC N' CHEESE - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Come join us as we make vegan mac and cheese, 
hosted by Michelle Zitt and get FREE samples! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
DISCOVER YOUR VALUES ILEAD 
WORKSHOP - BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST
Discover what you value most and consider how 
your values consciously and unconsciously inform 
you decisions and guide your actions, in this fun 
interactive, activity-based workshop. Presented by 
the Peer Educators, Center for Student 
Involvement. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: PLAYDOUGH AND 
CLAY CREATIONS - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Bring back the 8 year old in you - come and make 
playdough and clay buddies! Workshops are free; 
all supplies and materials provided. Space is 
limited and is first come, first served.  Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
UCSD WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. 
CONCORDIA - NORTH CAMPUS 
COURTS
Come watch your UCSD Women's Tennis team take 
on Concordia! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
2pm
MINDFULNESS TO REDUCE STRESS 
- BEAR ROOM, PC WEST
Being a student and being a leader brings in an 
array of stressors. Juggling activities and 
academics, time management, leading with 
empathy, and managing social relationships all 
have stressors. This can be detrimental to 
performance and to a sense of well-being. This 
experiential workshop teaches you Mindfulness 
tools to change your relationship with stress. Full 
attendance at this workshop will grant you 2 
stamps. Limited capacity is available at this 
workshop. To participate in this workshop, sign-up 
here: http://tinyurl.com/mindfulnesswi17 
Presented by Swati Desai, Director of Campus 
Relations, Center for Mindfulness. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
YOUABROAD STUDY ABROAD 
SERIES PRESENTS: YOUABROAD - 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
The culmination of our intersectional identity 
series. We will explore our collective stories. 
Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
SAT3.04
7pm
MUSICAINS' CLUB PRESENTS: 
ICONIC 2017! - PC BALLROOM 
EAST
Iconic is Musicians' Club's annual winter 
production, in which a rotating cast of over 60 
musicians comes together to perform iconic 
songs from the 50's to the present day. 
Experience a wide variety of genres, spanning 
from hip-hop to classic rock. Come see your fellow 
students pay tribute to influential artists and 
bands! If you're interested in joining Musicians' 
Club, visit our Facebook page! Contact: 
musiciansclub.ucsd@gmail.com12pm
THE CHOICE IS YOURS! 
ETHICAL DECISION MAKING - 
BEAR ROOM, PC WEST
Join us for this interactive session where you 
can discuss how to make positive ethical 
decisions and choices that lead to our ideal 
college experience! Presented by Jesselan Nehs, 
Program Assistant, Warren College; and Mario 
Garibay, Coordinator of Student Activities, 
Warren College. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
5pm
HERO SEMINARS - MUIR 
BIOLOGY BUILDING SEMINAR 
ROOM 1103
The Human and Earth Rights Organization is a 
non-profit student organization at UCSD that is 
dedicated to educating the public about social 
and environmental issues. HERO provides 
opportunities for student involvement in the 
community and supports human rights and 
environmental sustainability. HERO believes 
that only by addressing factors that affect the 
entire world, rather than considering issues that 
only pertain to a separate group or nation, can 
there be a social change drastic enough to end 
human suffering and stop the destruction of our 
planet. Contact: msaier@ucsd.eduFRI3.03
8pm
DUBLIN GUITAR QUARTET AT 
ARTPOWER - DEPT OF MUSIC'S 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
UCSD Student: $9. They might play traditional 
Spanish-style classical guitars, but they ’re not 
your standard guitar ensemble.The Dublin Guitar 
Quartet is the first classical guitar quartet 
entirely devoted to new music. Since their 
formation, the quartet has worked to expand the 
genre ’s limited repertoire by commissioning new 
works and adapting modern masterpieces. The 
quartet has created an original catalogue of 
arrangements by composers such as Philip Glass, 
Steve Reich, Arvo Pärt, and György Ligeti. Expect 
a dynamic, entertaining, and completely novel 
concert experience at their San Diego debut with 
ArtPower. Program: Bryce Dessner: Aheym; Philip 
Glass: Saxophone Quartet; Rachel Grimes: Book 
of Leaves; William Kanengiser: Gongan; Nikita 
Koshkin: Changing the Guard; György Ligeti: 
Inaktelki Nóták and Mátraszentimrei Dalok; Marc 
Mellits: Quartet; Urmas Sisask: Songs in Honour 
of the Virgin Mary; Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Vent sound
5. They get people into jams
9. Assessed
14. Tolstoy hero
15. Over again
16. Take the honey and run?
17. Type of stick
18. Yuletide visitors
19. Field doc
20. What a stuck-up person may be 
called
23. Kind of fork
24. Heavy metal
25. Put one over on
27. Overhaul
32. Be in accord
36. Kind of wave
38. Comment made with a nod
39. What an old-timer may be called
42. Cathedral or church part
43. Saver of many endangered species?
44. Stops presenting evidence
45. Herb of Tijuana Brass fame
47. Construction block manufacturer
49. Spooky waterway?
51. Jumpy
56. What a fairy-tale emperor could be 
called?
61. Martini garnish
62. Made cheddar better
63. Split personalities?
64. Prominent Chicago politician
65. Out of the wind
66. Prescribed ceremony
67. Slumber rumble
68. ‘’The King and I’’ co-star
69. Marsh duckDown
1. ‘’Hungry, hungry’’ critter of a kid’s 
game
2. Coast or tower
3. Certain powdered starches
4. Pig proboscis
5. Sporty Chevy
6. Collections of literary snippets
7. Rhyming noble defender of the 
downtrodden?
8. Utilize a charge card
9. All new from the ground up
10. Sir Guinness
11. Worker’s list heading
12. Grand in scale
13. Where to find two black suits
21. Pass the buck
22. Terra firma
26. ‘’This can’t be!’’
28. Type of squad
29. Seeks a favor
30. Make the acquaintance of
31. Kennel features
32. Tolstoy’s Karenina
33. Hockey player’s quest
34. Letters for an invitee
35. Certain fencing blade
37. Belly problem
40. Start for mural
41. Satire, perhaps
46. Night flight
48. Needler
50. Chris of ‘’Wicked Game’’ fame
52. Film buff Roger
53. Word with Chicks or cups
54. Screen great Garbo
55. Famed ‘50s flop
56. Says ‘’yes’’ without saying ‘’yes’’
57. NASA’s Shepard
58. Drug shipment, perhaps
59. At all times
60. Express derisionPETS
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. Super 
cute purebred Holland Lop Baby Bunnies. 
They are 8 weeks old and ready to go. I 
handle all my baby bunnies from birth, 
so they are all tame and sweet. They will 
be between 3-4 pounds when full grown. 
I will show you how to handle your new 
bunny and give you lots of helpful informa -
tion. Please text me at 951-294-2051. I am 
located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 305984269 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. Adorable 
Olde English Bulldogge boys born on 06 
Aug 2016. The pups will be ready to go 
home on 01 Oct 2016 at 8 weeks of age. 
They will come with first two sets of vac -
cines. Please be in touch for rehoming fee 
if interested and/or to schedule an appt to 
visit. Parents on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. I have 
3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m moving to a 
place with limitation of two pets, I need to 
find them a new home! They are all healthy, playful and energetic. Litter box- trained. 
There is one girl, the others are boys. If you 
could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not 
a breeder, so they have never been to a vet. 
However, their parents are healthy. Listing 
ID: 305139343 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including 
camera , two batteries, camera bag and 
charger. Everything is in super condition. 
Listing ID: 305156992 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM 
PRICE $300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too 
many to list. Must buy all boxes. I will 
deliver if you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway and College Blvd. Listing 
ID: 304329626 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash Sale 
- Furniture is in attractive condition as it has 
been a month since we bought it. Please 
contact -- if you are interested. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves are 
glass. Bottom with small door. Superb 
condition. Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156999 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - 
Entertain in style with this lovely wooden 
high-top table and stool set. You’ll have 
the best seat in the house or even outside 
to enjoy snacks beverages or a complete 
meal. Comes with stools and table. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305156995 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
FEBRUARY 27
NATIONAL
STRAWBERRY
DAY
6+O3 TR,TO1 OUTF,TTER6
to.ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
SocialPowerHourSocial
Power
Hour
FIRST C OME,  FIRST SERVEd
FIRST C OME, FIRST SERVEd
WH EN AND WHE REWH EN AND WH ERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PM
FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!
MAR
2Tritons Down Coyotes in Season Finale
UC San Diego women’s basketball will host No. 8 
Sonoma state in the CCAA quarterfinals.W. BASKETBALL
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team defeated Cal State 
San Bernardino, 66–60, last Thursday 
to clinch the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association championship. 
The Tritons finished atop the 
conference with a 17–3 conference 
record and a 21–5 record overall. 
Last year, UCSD shared the regular 
season title with two other teams, Cal 
State Dominguez Hills and Cal State 
East Bay. This year, UCSD alone was 
the recipient of the CCAA regular 
season title, marking the fifth time 
that the Tritons have won the title. 
UCSD heads into the playoffs hoping 
to carry the momentum of a very 
successful regular season forward. 
The first quarter began with a 
jumper off an offensive rebound by 
Coyote senior forward Casie Johnson. 
Both teams would trade a few baskets 
until the 5:05 minute mark, when 
UCSD pulled ahead 11–8, courtesy of 
a three-pointer by sophomore guard 
Joleen Y ang. The Tritons held onto 
their advantage, heading into the 
second quarter with a 23–17 lead. 
The second quarter was a low-
scoring affair. Other than a three-
pointer by Coyote freshman guard 
Courtney Coleman to open up the 
quarter, neither team scored again 
until the 5:34 mark. The lead changed 
hands four times until UCSD senior 
guard Beth Mounier knocked down 
a three-pointer to put the Tritons 
up 31–28. The end of the second 
quarter saw the Tritons holding an 
uncomfortable 34–31 lead with the 
Coyotes right on their heels. 
UCSD started off the third quarter 
with a three-pointer by junior guard 
Paige Song to bring the lead to 37–31. The Tritons’ point advantage over Cal 
State San Bernardino would not last, 
as the Coyotes came close to closing 
the gap multiple times throughout the 
quarter. They ultimately succeeded 
with 1:57 left to go in the third, 
securing a short-lived 47–46 lead. 
UCSD easily took the lead again and 
finished the quarter five points ahead 
at 52–47.
The Tritons held onto their lead 
for the remainder of the game. UCSD 
scored 14 in the fourth quarter to Cal 
State San Bernardino’s 13. Neither 
team shot very well from the field 
in the fourth quarter: UCSD went 
3–12 and Cal State San Bernardino 
went 3–15. The difference was in the 
free throws; UCSD was 8–8 while 
Cal State San Bernardino was 7–10. 
UCSD secured the victory with a 
pair of free throws by Y ang with one 
second left to go. 
Mounier, Y ang and junior forward 
Dalayna Sampton scored in double 
digits for the Tritons — 16, 15 and 10, 
respectively. The Tritons rebounded 
the ball very well; Mounier and 
Sampton contributed eight rebounds 
while senior forward Cassie MacLeod 
grabbed nine. 
“We made some big plays down 
the stretch, ” head coach Heidi 
V anDerveer told the UC San Diego 
Athletics Department. “Different 
players stepped up, and we were able 
to hold on to grab the win. ”
UCSD will host No. 8 Sonoma 
State in a quarterfinal game for the 
eight-team CCAA tournament. Tip-
off is set for 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, 
Feb. 28. BY  R i c h a r d  L u
Contributing writer
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduKlie Pushes Tritons Over the Top In Record-Setting Game 
Senior guard Adam Klie became the UC San Diego Division-II scoring leader 
as the team prepares to face off against Humboldt State on Tuesday night.M. BASKETBALL
The UC San Diego men’s basketball 
team earned its first California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
regular season title with 74–64 win 
over Cal State San Bernardino on 
Thursday night. The Tritons made 
history in the process, winning the 
CCAA title for the first time ever in 
the program’s history. With the win, 
UCSD extends its win streak to seven 
games and ends the regular season 
with a 22–5 overall record and 17–3 
in conference play.  
Senior guard Adam Klie led the 
scoring for the Tritons as he dropped 
26 points on 10-for-20 shooting 
including six assists, three rebounds 
and a steal. Klie consistently has 
showcased his overall play from game to game, and Thursday night was no 
exception. The senior made history 
by becoming UCSD’s Division-II 
scoring leader, now with 1,402 points 
and will have a chance to separate 
himself on the scoring leaderboard in 
the postseason.
Along with Klie, sophomore 
center Chris Hansen had 23 points, six 
rebounds and a block. Additionally, 
sophomore forward Christian Oshita 
recorded 12 boards in the game for 
a career-high, while junior guard 
Anthony Ballestero chipped in with 
13 solid points off the bench, going 
three-for-three from three-point land.  
The Tritons shot 46 percent from 
the field (26–57), while the Coyotes 
shot a similar percentage, 45 percent 
(19–42). However, the volume of 
shooting had a significant impact on 
the end result as the Tritons were able to put up 15 more shots compared to 
their opponents.  
UCSD is now officially done with 
the regular season and fully focused 
on the postseason. While the CCAA 
season title was a great achievement, 
the team has its eyes set on postseason 
titles. Looking to repeat as champions 
in the CCAA Tournament, the 
Tritons’ first order of business will 
be to go through Humboldt State 
University on Tuesday, Feb. 28, when 
they will host the CCAA T ournament 
quarterfinal game at 7:30 p.m. The 
winner of that matchup will head to 
the semifinals, which will be held on 
March 3 and March 4 at Cal State San 
Marcos.BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
senior STAFF writer
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 27, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Last week, the No. 14 UC San Diego men’s tennis team 
completed a successful Hawaii road trip with a win 
against the University of Hawaii at Hilo and followed 
that up with a home win against Holy Names University. 
Fresh off an upset win against No. 1 Hawaii Pacific and 
another victory against No. 26 Brigham Young University, 
the Tritons are now on a four-game win streak.
This past Sunday, UCSD completed a sweep of the 
Hawaii Invitational with a 6-3 defeat of UH Hilo.
The Tritons lost both the No. 1 singles and doubles 
and the No. 6 singles but won all other matchups. Junior 
Eric Tseng lost in two sets at the one spot, while senior 
Alexandre Miaule and freshman Marc Isaia lost one double. 
In the win column, Miaule won at the two, 6-1, 6-4, junior 
Justin Zhang got a tough victory in three sets at the three, 
(6-4, 2-6, 10-8). Isaia took the fourth game with an easy 6-1, 
6-1 victory, while freshman Marius Ruh followed suit with 
the 6-0, 6-1 drubbing of his opponent at the five.
Doubles players of the day freshman Sreeganesh 
Manoharan and senior Edvin Larsson paired up for the win 
at two, and Tseng and Zhang rounded up the scoring at the 
No. 3 doubles.
The Tritons went back to work on Friday against No. 
30 Holy Names and picked up another win. With the 7-2 
victory, UCSD moved to 5-3 and a regional ranking of      
No. 3.
Tseng, the 36th-ranked singles player in the country, lost 
again at the No. 1 spot against senior Matthew Halligan. 
Halligan took the first set, winning the tie break 7-5. 
Tseng made it a game when he took the second set 6-3 but 
ultimately was defeated in the super tiebreaker 10-7.
Miaule at the two, Zhang at the three, Larsson at the 
five and sophomore Rodrigo Amaral at the six all won in 
straight sets. Ruh had a more difficult time at the four spot 
against freshman Javier Luque. Ruh won the first set 6-2, 
lost the second 2-6 and then narrowly escaped the super 
tiebreaker 12-10.
The one spot for the Tritons in the doubles was a bit of 
a let down for the second time in a row, as Isaia and Miaule 
lost 8-3. Tseng and Zhang took the No. 2 with a 8-2 victory, 
and Amaral and Larsson took care of business at the three.MEN'STENNIS
Winner 
Winner,
Chicken Dinner
The men’s tennis team showed 
no fear in its successful upset of 
No. 1 Hawaii Pacific
by Marcus Thuillier// Co Editor In Chief
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Tennis
Softball2 PM
5:30 PM
7:30 PM
9 AM
1 PM2/28
2/28
2/28
3/2
3/3
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduREADERS CAN CONTACT
The No. 13 UC San Diego women’s 
tennis team had a busy week seven, 
playing three matches in seven days, 
winning all three. Though the Tritons 
lost a few exhibition games last month, 
they have been unstoppable since the 
regular season started. On Sunday Feb. 
19, they beat No. 50 Cal State Stanislaus 
8–1, then went on to win 5–4 against 
Eastern Michigan University on 
Tuesday Feb. 21. Finally, they traveled 
north to Los Angeles this past weekend 
and defeated No. 29 Cal State Los 
Angeles 6–3. With these three wins, the Tritons remain undefeated with a 
7–0 overall record. 
UCSD vs. Cal State Stanislaus
The Tritons swept the competition 
in all of the singles matches. Each 
match only required two sets, except 
for the match between junior Jasmine 
Hosseini and junior Stanislaus’s Ebone 
Qualls, which required a tie-breaking 
third set. Hosseini, however, fought 
hard to defeat Qualls in the final set 
13–11. Sophomore Alexandra Weil 
and freshman V aleria Corral did not 
let their opponents score at all, both earning the victory in two sets (6–0, 
6–0). 
The doubles competition was the 
only one in which the Tritons had a 
loss. Junior Britta Mosser and senior 
Shannon Theisen were defeated 8–1. 
Mosser, however, won her singles 
competition. The Madison Hale and 
Weil duo blanked Stanislaus 8–0, 
meaning that Weil did not let her 
opponent score at all that day. 
UCSD vs. Eastern Michigan 
UCSD again thrived in the singles 
competition, taking four out of the six matches. The Tritons, however, 
struggled a bit in the doubles matches, 
losing two out of the three matches. 
Again, the Hale and Weil duo — they 
even have the rhyming name thing 
going for them — defeated their 
opponent in the doubles match, 8–6. 
UCSD vs. Cal State LA
With a 6–3 win over Cal State Los 
Angeles, the Tritons once again saw 
victories from Mosser, Hosseini, Weil 
and Corral in the singles matches. 
In true fashion, the Hale and Weil 
duo beat Cal State Los Angeles in the doubles competition. Sophomore 
Ashley Chao and freshman Becky 
Chou improved upon their two 
losses against Stanislaus and Eastern 
Michigan to defeat their opponent in 
the doubles competition, 8–3. 
Next up, the Tritons will host No. 
31 Concordia University this Tuesday, 
Feb. 28 at 2 p.m.  WOMEN'S TENNIS
The Road 
Warriors
Tritons remain undefeated after going 3–0 
on the road over the past week.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSby Rosina Garcia// Co Editor In Chief
ROSINA GARCIA  rmg008@ucsd.eduVS Concordia
VS Sonoma State
VS Humboldt State 
VS Villanova
VS SF State