VOLUME 50, ISSUE 32   MONDA Y , APRIL 10, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A.S. COUNCIL 
ENDORSEMENTS
STAY INFORMED WITH THE 
A.S. COUNCIL ELECTIONS — 
READ THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
EDITORIAL BOARD’S 
ENDORSEMENTS AND SEE IF 
OUR PICKS ALIGN WITH YOUR 
VIEWS AND VALUES. 
HILLCREST
12  TRITONS  HONOREDanother  ga yborhood  lost 
na tional  student  a thlete  da yopinion,  P age   3
sports,  P age  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“AS STUDENTS, WE HAVE A 
CHOICE TO BECOME INVOLVED 
WITH OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY 
RATHER THAN BE STRANGERS 
PASSING THROUGH AN 
INSTITUTION.”
- BECCA CHONG
OP-ED
OPINION , PAGE 3
INSIDE
OPINION  .......................... 4
LIFESTYLE  ...................... 6
MUIR MUSICAL  ............. 11
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
SOFTBALL  .................... 15fea tures,  P AGE  8
LLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON 
MONDAY
H 66 L 57TUESDAY
H 66 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 59THURSDAY 
H 66 L 56
The UC San Diego Outback Adventures Surf Shop 
announced last week that it would be shutting down this 
quarter. The shop has been a campus fixture since 2009.
According to shop manager Isaac Brandle, the decision 
was made because profits were not sufficient enough to keep 
the store open.
Brandle assured that the closure will not affect the other 
programs offered by Outback Adventures.
“The retail space is closing indefinitely; [however,] the 
other Outback offerings will not be affected, ” Brandle said. 
“That includes rentals, trips, the climbing gym and our other 
programs. ”
The Surf Shop is managed by UCSD Recreation and 
Outback Adventures. With the shop’s closure, University 
Centers will take control of the space the shop occupies and 
determine its use going forward.
The University Center Advisory Board’s Associated 
Students representative Evan Jan told the UCSD Guardian 
that UCAB is already floating around ideas for replacements.
“UCAB has convened an ad-hoc committee to explore 
options for the Outback Surf Shop space, ” Jan said. “ At this point, there is no set concept for the space, and ideas have 
ranged from food sales to relaxation areas for students. ” 
Some replacement ideas that have been proposed by 
UCAB include a mental health space for students similar 
to The Zone, a new bar, a retail vendor such as Triton 
Outfitters, or a storage or office space. 
According to UCAB Chair Luke W ang, the option to 
keep the Surf Shop is not off the table. 
“If there is a strong desire to keep Outback Surf Shop, 
then maybe we can communicate with the owner, ” W ang 
told the UCSD Guardian.
If the Surf Shop were allowed to remain on campus, 
administrative oversight would be transferred from UCSD 
Recreation to University Centers. 
The decision to keep the Surf Shop will be discussed at 
the UCAB meeting this week.
According to Brandle, the Surf Shop will be officially 
removed from the campus on May 31, but the last day that 
it will be open to students will depend on how quickly their 
remaining inventory is sold. There is currently a clearance 
sale on all items. Voting Begins 
in Campus 
ElectionsA.S. ELECTIONS
Results will be announced on 
Friday at 5:30 p.m. at Round 
Table Pizza.
Voting for the A.S. and college 
council elections began today on 
TritonLink and will last through 
Friday. The majority of the 
candidates running in the A.S. 
election belong to either the Students 
Determined or THRIVE slates, with 
a handful of independents in the 
races as well.
The Students Determined slate, 
which describes itself as a coalition 
of progressive students, is running 
on a platform of addressing issues 
such as food and housing insecurity, 
access and retention, transparency 
and campus planning, among 
other things. Running alongside a 
number of candidates for senatorial 
positions, the slate’s executive team 
is comprised of Lesly Figueroa for 
president and Refilwe Gqajela for 
vice president of external affairs, 
although the pair will be listed on 
the ballot as independents after an 
error was made during the filing 
process. Figueroa told the UCSD 
Guardian that Students Determined 
intends to create a student-
centered institution with a focus on 
empowerment and advocacy.
Running under the slogan “You 
got here, now thrive here, ” THRIVE 
is running as a group of equity-
minded, progressive leaders aiming 
to reform leadership on campus 
to be a “thoughtful, equitable and 
collaborative process.” The slate 
plans to establish institutions that 
will allow progress to be made on 
the issues they address beyond their 
own terms. THRIVE is fielding 
candidates for most positions, with 
Tara Vahdani for president, Matthew 
Arrollado for vice president of 
campus affairs and Adan Chavez 
for vice president of external affairs.
Vahdani explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that the slate aims to 
challenge its senators to propose 
initiatives where if they came back 
to campus in several years, they 
would be able to see that their ideas 
actually affected students. Vahdani 
noted that during the campaign 
process, they are pushing to interact 
with students because they want 
their campaign to reflect how the 
candidates will behave as elected 
officials.    
Three independent candidates 
will also be running for A.S. 
president — Aaron Dalton Burgess, 
Dennis Y eh and Gus Guerrero.
Guerrero, who has served in 
the past as Muir College Council 
president, is running on a platform 
of unifying the campus, improving 
transportation, creating a 
centralized institutions for wellness 
entities like The Zone and CARE 
and improving A.S. Council’s 
visibility.
Guerrero stated to the Guardian 
that although independents have 
a harder time being elected, he ASCE Partially Releases Sun God Lineup
ScHoolboy Q will be headlining Sun God 
Festival 2017, A.S. Concerts and Events 
announced online Monday afternoon. The 
lineup will also include Bad Suns and Manila 
Killa, among other artists. 
ScHoolboy Q is a rapper from South Central 
Los Angeles. Influenced by artists like Jay-Z, 50 
Cent and 2Pac, ScHoolboy Q has been nominated 
for multiple Grammys, including Best Rap Album 
in 2015 for “Oxymoron” and in 2017 for “Blank 
Face LP . ” Among his most popular songs are 
“Collard Greens” and “Studio.”
A four-man rock band largely from L.A., Bad 
Suns are inspired by 1970s and 1980s post-punk. 
The group has released two albums — “Language 
& Perspective” and “Disappear Here” — along with 
“Transpose EP . ” One of it’s most popular singles 
is “Cardiac Arrest, ” which it released without 
expecting recognition. Two years after their 
formation, Bad Suns opened for The 1975 in 2014, 
and in 2015, the group performed at Coachella. 
Manila Killa, who self-describes his genre as “variety, ” is a solo artist initially from the 
Philippines but is now based out of Washington 
D.C. Among his most well-known works are his 
remix of Tegan & Sara’s “Walking With A Ghost” 
and his original “ All That’s Left. ” According to his 
Twitter, the 22-year-old aspires to be “as extra as 
Jay Gatsby.”
Associated Vice President of ASCE Michelle 
Luong explained to the UCSD Guardian in 
November that ASCE selects artists for its lineups 
based on how they will fit into the show as a 
whole.
“You’re building a lineup, as opposed to 
booking one thing, ” Luong said. “You have to 
think of how that lineup will come together, 
the genres you’re using and also the size of the 
audience. ”
Luong also noted that the lineup is dependent 
on a number of other factors, like artists’ 
availability and cost.
ASCE received $730,000 for Sun God in 
the 2016–17 A.S. Budget, along with a $20,000 B y Lauren  HOl t  News EditorSUN GOD 2017
University Centers will take control of the space after the shop closes its doors by end of May.See SUN GOD , page 3
UNIVERSITY CENTERS
BY  J o s h   l e f l e r
Senior staff writer
BY  L a u r e n  H o l t
news editor
Outback Adventures Surf  Shop to Close Permanently
A.S. Council presidential candidates debated for students’ votes last Friday, April 7 at PC Plaza. From left to 
right: Lesly Figueroa (Students Determined), Dennis Y eh (independent), Tara Vahdani (THRIVE) and Gus 
Guerrero (independent). Photo used with permission from Hrishikesh Barokar. A.S. ELECTIONS
josh  lefler  jlefler@ucsd.eduSee ELECTIONS , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
SPIRT PARADIMG By Michi Sora
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 4/17/17
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.orgThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Season 1: The Guardian, Episode: Rosina is Mad 
(See pg 3 for next ep). 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel WalkerUC San Diego held its annual 
Triton Day last Saturday for newly 
admitted students to preview the 
campus along with their prospective 
colleges. 
The day consisted of various events 
ranging from campus tours, college 
overview sessions and booths, allowing 
students to submit their Statements of 
Intent to Register.
The atmosphere of UCSD for some 
new students is a complete switch 
from their normal routines, as is the 
case of incoming Eleanor Roosevelt 
College freshmen Lorena Gonzalez, who stayed on campus for two nights 
before Triton Day with a current ERC 
student.
“The 180-degree turn from my 
life in the Bay Area holds me back, ” 
Gonzalez told the UCSD Guardian. 
“It is not easy to go from a graduating 
class of 123 and the physical support 
of parents 24/7 to a class of thousands 
and parents hundreds of miles away. ”
To help with the transition from 
high school to college, the college 
overview sessions went over the 
First Y ear Experience program, a 
one-quarter class offered in the fall 
throughout the six colleges with the 
intent of making students aware of 
campus resources so that they can utilize them throughout their first year.
In addition to new students’ 
concerns, parents wonder what campus 
life will entail for their children.
“A s  a  p a r e n t ,  o f  c o u r s e  t h e r e  w i l l  b e  
worries, ” Gonzalez’s father said. “We 
worry whether she will eat or sleep 
enough, whether she will overload 
herself with too much work. We worry 
that if something goes wrong we will 
not be able to get to her in time to 
help her. ”
To help settle concerns, parents 
will be offered the opportunity to 
attend orientations specifically for 
them during the time that their child 
will be attending their own. Family 
orientations will focus around topics ranging from financial aid to how to 
deal with the transitional period.
Despite worries, Gonzalez’s father 
expressed pride in his daughter’s 
accomplishments. 
“It is a very happy moment for 
the family, ” Mr. Gonzalez stated. She 
is the first to go to college, and we 
see it as all of our hard work finally 
paying off. However, there is still the 
pain of seeing our first child and only 
daughter leaving our home. ”
Transfer Triton Day will be held on 
May 6 and will consist of events similar 
to this past weekend’s Triton Day.UC San Diego Hosts Annual Triton Day for Perpsective StudentsCAMPUS
BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g
Senior staff writer
Rebecca Chong  rcchong@ucsd.edu
The Big West Athletics Conference denied membership to 
UC San Diego, Vice Chancellor-Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez 
and Intercollegiate Athletics Director Earl Edwards said in an 
email announcement. Gonzalez and Edwards emphasized their 
commitment to the students and faculty’s desire to move to 
Division-I.
“ As a University, we will continue dialogue to better understand 
and address the current issues surrounding UC San Diego’s 
potential membership in the Big West Conference, ” they said in the 
announcement.
For UC San Diego to secure Division-I membership, seven of 
the nine schools in the conference needed to vote “yes, ” which 
did not happen. The schools, which include four UC schools, four 
Cal State schools and University of Hawaii at Manoa, the most recent member, were represented by their respective chancellors 
or presidents. In May 2016, 6,137 out of the 8,828 voting students 
indicated that they wanted the university to move to Division-I. In 
the 2016 Fall Quarter, 736 faculty members casted a vote, with 457 
of them voting in favor of the move. If UCSD is not accepted to a 
conference by 2018, the student vote will be invalid, and the process 
will have to start over. 
“The Big West Board of Directors (composed of the conference 
member institutions’ presidents and chancellors) have decided not 
to pursue membership expansion at this time, ” Big West Conference 
Commissioner Dennis Farrell told the UCSD Guardian. “The Board 
is comfortable with the current alignment of membership and this 
decision should not reflect negatively in any way UC San Diego’s 
qualifications or Division-I potential. ”IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
ROSINA GARCIA //  CO-EDITOR IN CHIEF
Back to the Drawing Board, as Big West Athletics Conference Denies UC San Diego D-I Membershipis running because he believes 
that there should be more than 
two candidates and he wants to 
destigmatize student government.
Yeh, who has no student 
government experience at UCSD, admitted to the Guardian that he 
initially ran just to “stick it to the 
man, ” but he is now committed to 
representing the average student, 
as one of his main stances is that 
A.S. Council overrepresents certain 
groups and always consists of the 
same people. 
The election results will be announced on Friday at Round 
Table Pizza at 5:30 p.m. The voter 
turnout rate must be 20 percent or 
better in order for the results to be 
official.contingency allocation. However, 
much of that funding is not spent 
on booking artists but rather on 
other costs like security and the 
performance itself. 
The other artists, who will be 
performing on the North Stage, 
include female singer-songwriter Mark Johns, alternative solo 
artist Mild High Club and dance 
companies KINJAZ, 220 Second 
to None and Choreo Cookies. 
Two mystery artists have yet to be 
announced.  
According to Luong, the decision 
to incorporate dance companies 
into the festival “was driven by 
student input collected from our 
survey data. ”In addition to musical 
performances, the festival will 
also feature carnival rides, food, 
promotional booths and art displays.
Free to all UC San Diego 
undergraduates, the festival will be 
held on RIMAC Field on April 29.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ SUN GOD,  from page 1 
▶ ELECTIONS,  from page 1 Dance Companies Will Also Be Included in This Year’s Festivities
Voter Turnout Must Surpass 20 Percent for Results to be OfficialLauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  
IS CUREDR O S I N A  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Deep in the flood of disturbing 
reports, policy changes and 
sardonic commentary flowing 
from Washington D.C., the Trump 
administration has been recklessly 
undoing the environmental policy 
work of the Obama administration.  
Trump’s commitment to 
“stopping the war on coal,” for 
one, reversed the Obama-era 
moratorium on the federal coal 
program that provided new coal 
leases. His free-market, deregulation 
stance means a review on the EPA ’s 
Clean Water Rule which protects 
streams and wetlands from 
pollution and degradation. Further, 
he has denounced the whole of 
climate change policy by rescinding 
Obama’s climate action plan from 
2013. 
As frustrating as this has been, 
there is an opportunity here for 
students and faculty alike to create 
strong, community-based climate 
change policy by supporting 
Community Choice Energy.
Community Choice Energy, 
sometimes referred to as community 
choice aggregation, is a non-
profit alternative to the corporate 
monopoly of San Diego Gas & 
Electric. SDG&E is an investor-owned utility, which means that 
the average person has no say over 
the source of their energy. SDG&E 
works through contracting to 
smaller, local energy providers such 
as Palomar Energy Center and the 
Encina Power Station.
CCE aims to create a non-profit 
energy provider run by the local city 
government that contracts out local, 
clean energy providers. Its goal is 
twofold: increase the percentage of 
clean energy provided to consumers 
based on their wants and needs and 
invest in local businesses rather than 
outsourcing to large corporations. 
The city of San Diego is 
conducting a feasibility study that 
is key to accomplishing its goals, 
projected to publish preliminary results in the summer of 2017. The 
study will examine energy providers 
by their costs to consumers and 
their carbon footprints. 
Programs like Community 
Choice Energy already exist in 
counties across California, and 
many other local governments are in 
considering a restructuring of their 
power. In Oakland and Berkeley, 
similar models of clean energy 
providers are being pushed for. 
Monterey Bay Community Power, 
however, has already conducted and 
presented the results of a feasibility 
study from May 2016 that shows 
that the CCE model would be viable 
under a range of market conditions 
and has the potential to reduce 
carbon emissions greatly depending 
on the type of plan chosen.
CCE has been heavily opposed 
and lobbied against by SDG&E 
because it presents a threat to 
SDG&E’s energy monopoly. In a 
Voice of San Diego breakdown, 
author Ry Rivard explains how 
the process of buying power for 
its customers, regardless of type, is 
often done through contracts that 
project 20 years into the future. 
Community Choice Energy 
Key Player In Local 
Climate Change Policy
BY  BECCA CHONG Hillcrest, otherwise known as San 
Diego’ s “gayborhood” much like Los 
Angeles’ W est Hollywood, has served 
as a local bastion for gay community 
and activism for decades. Unique 
for the peaceful juxtaposition of its 
frenetic nighttime go-go boys and its 
cozy elderly population, Hillcrest has 
always strived to honor its original 
moniker “the gay-nineties. ” This 
illustrious history of flamboyancy once 
situated San Diego as one of the top five 
cities in LGBT population, according 
to UCLA. 
Hillcrest’ s history as a nexus of 
queers, however, now stands in the face 
of a study which relegates San Diego’ s 
prestigious top five seat to 32nd in terms 
of LGBT population.  This appears to be 
a part of the growing trend across the 
United States showing the decline of 
gayborhoods.  Researchers have pointed 
to the gentrification of these areas as the 
cause for this decline. And its effects are 
starting to reverberate. 
In many ways, Hillcrest 
followed the same progression that 
many gayborhoods follow in their 
transformations into gay havens. During 
its time as an underpopulated and 
lower-income area, gay people flocked 
to Hillcrest seeking affordable rent and 
amicable treatment.  They soon began 
to dig their roots; “definitely, the bars 
came first” followed by LGBT-owned 
clubs and clothing stores and overpriced 
coffee. Gay people, enticed by the lively, 
accepting, and - most importantly - 
cheap scene quickly followed suit. Then 
in time, Hillcrest as a lively hub of gay 
life was born.
But gay people were not the only 
ones attracted to the area by these factors. 
As its reputation as an original niche 
grew, the gay residents unknowingly 
invited what researcher Petra Doan 
called “the exploitation of gay capital. ” 
The culture created and maintained 
by gay people interested their straight counterparts who figured they might 
as well ingratiate themselves into the 
existing community. 
While the interest and influx of 
straight people into the area increased 
demand and raised property values, 
these gains are made on the backs of the 
gay residents. The gay population saw 
themselves and their business forced 
out by large hikes in rent.  
Some researchers explain away 
these concerns by claiming that gay 
people are reaping what they sowed 
in revitalizing low-income areas. This 
is to say that producing wealth there 
pulled the rug out from under later 
LGBT migrants. This ignores obvious 
coordination between city planners 
and corporate interest to displace gay 
locally-owned institutions. 
 The most egregious example of this 
occurred in 2015. City planners were 
developing The Uptown Plan, which 
decided future regulations on a number 
of areas including Hillcrest. A lobbyist 
for a realty company incorporated 100 
pages of changes which gave them 
the right to build with “unlimited 
height and density, and to bulldoze 
nine square blocks” of Hillcrest’ s main 
thoroughfare. At the same time, the city 
opposed naming the area as a historic 
gay district, which would have interfered 
with these construction plans. 
When corporate greed comes 
with the cost of a community, that 
community loses its voice. Raunchy 
clubs and dirty underwear shops aside, 
Hillcrest is a locus of gay activism. Its 
community members, in coordination 
with the local LGBT Resource Center, 
do more than fill a desperate need 
for resources from HIV testing to 
temporary housing. They also serve as 
the vanguard for gay rights contentions. 
This ability to congregate safely 
creates the real power and value of 
a community. There is strength in 
numbers. The problem arises when 
this community is taken for granted. 
In Hillcrest, like plenty of other 
gayborhoods, commercial interest 
exploits the community until it no 
longer exists. However, on UCSD 
campus, it is LGBT students who 
often take advantage of the existing 
community by reaping the rewards of 
earlier advancements without seeking 
to pull them further. Given that LGBT 
students are not fighting corporations 
like their counterparts in Hillcrest, the 
entity hindering a lack of a community 
is the lack of campus-wide coalition-
building itself.
When looking at LGBT and gender-
inclusive housing, and the LGBT 
Resource center , students should 
applaud our queer predecessors for a 
job well done. These resources have 
improved the quality of life for LGBT 
students, but there will always be more 
work to do. On college campuses, LGBT 
students are two to three times more 
likely to drop out, and 56% of those 
students cite a lack of belonging as 
their reason for leaving, according to 
Stonewall Organization. Those that stay 
experience higher rates of assault - and 
the highest rates of sexual harassment 
- than any other group. Harassment 
is especially common for transgender 
students, and queer students of color. 
No one is asking for every queer 
within a five-mile radius to take up a 
sword and fight for our rights and safety. 
But when UCSD provides a number of 
resources for LGBT students, it’ s silly 
not to take advantage of those fully. The 
funding, housing, and advising issues 
which stifle many LGBT neighborhoods 
are not the issue on campus. Here, the 
resources are waiting for students from 
our universities many campuses to unite 
and take them. Despite all the promises of 
technological innovation, the 
proliferation of automated machines 
will harm financial prospects for 
working people  in the following 
decades. According to Digital 
Trends, robots are likely to replace 
around five million jobs by 2020. 
Beyond the threat of job destruction, 
MIT researchers have found that the 
effect of creating one robot for every 
thousand workers is a decrease in 
wages by about 0.25-0.5 percent. As 
robots are continually engineered 
to be more efficient and productive 
than humans, their work is valued 
at lower costs and is preferred over 
human labor. 
But this change doesn't only 
affect blue-collar and administrative 
work; with the advent of artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, 
automated machines have already 
begun to substantially impact skilled 
professions, such as surgery and 
accounting. Additionally, reliance on 
technology allows corporations to 
find loopholes in providing worker 
benefits. Uber and Lyft, for instance 
— businesses that utilize apps in 
providing services—categorize their 
drivers as independent contractors 
rather than employees to avoid extra 
fees, leaving workers without proper 
coverage and protection. This trend 
of prioritizing profits at the expense of uncompensated employees — 
one so prescient in these apps —will 
likely be worsened as  technological 
advancement integrates technology 
with employment.
The expansion of automation 
brings heavy implications beyond 
the economic sphere. Although we 
are in the age of connectivity, the 
next decades will inevitably witness 
people physically withdrawing from 
reality by immersing themselves in 
virtual worlds, sometimes with great 
consequences. Virtual reality will 
allow those dissatisfied with their 
lives to not only escape into more 
ideal digital worlds, but ultimately 
prefer virtual fantasy to real life. 
This will consequently hinder 
physical connection and intimacy 
in human relationships. As an 
extreme example of technological 
innovation being detrimental 
to human interaction, a Japanese 
virtual reality game allowing users 
to sexually assault women characters 
was released last summer. The future 
of the digital age may distort the 
authenticity and moral standards 
surrounding human connection, 
and desensitize users from the true 
weight of their actions, rendering 
them lost and physically detached 
in virtual worlds.
 — EMILY ZHAO
Staff WriterILLUSTRA TION BY 
CHRISTINA CARLSON
QUICK-TAKES
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGREADERS CAN CONTACTWith Technological Advancement 
Comes Easier Methods to Exploit
At its core, technology is a 
beautiful and wonderful tool of 
humanity that has the potential 
to elevate standards of living to 
previously unimagined levels. Yet, 
despite this incredible potential 
for growth, many have come to 
see technology and automation of 
labor as malevolent job-destroyers 
intent on dismantling the liveli -
hoods of millions of Americans 
who rely on their unskilled labor 
to earn a living.
The truth, however, is far 
more nuanced. Although automa -
tion will indeed reduce the labor 
needs of some professions, it will 
also open up entirely new job 
industries for workers to enter. 
According to the Economist, labor 
costs related to weaving and tex -
tile production during the 19th 
century dropped 98 percent after 
improvements in automation. 
Ye t ,  t h i s  d i d  n ot  d e s t roy  w e av -
ers’ livelihoods since they simply 
migrated from directly produc -
ing the cloth to managing the 
machines. Furthermore, the price 
of cloth dropped substantially, 
hugely increasing demand and, as 
a result, increasing total employ -
ment by over four times the origi -
nal amount from 1830 to 1900. 
Automation, therefore, does not 
destroy labor but rather changes it and forces workers to adapt to a 
new job role.
The same situation is unfold -
ing in the modern day. Automated 
improvements in the transporta -
tion industry (which is expected 
to see massive changes in employ -
ment) will result in drivers moving 
toward maintaining the self-driv -
ing trucks. Grocery store cashiers 
will migrate to overseeing large 
sections of self-checkouts rather 
than their own individual lane. 
Chefs will become waiters or man -
agers (which still require a per -
sonal touch). All of these improve -
ments will result in lower prices 
and a higher standard of living.
Furthermore, the increased 
automation of labor opens us up 
to explore the creative aspects of 
humanity. Similar to how special -
ization of labor helped allow early 
tribes to become powerful civiliza -
tions and create incredible works 
of art, the reduced demand on 
routine labor will allow humanity 
to focus on deeper, more impor -
tant questions in both STEM and 
humanities. We will undoubtedly 
see an explosion of higher learn -
ing, deeper research and great 
works of art that will define the 
post-Information Era of humanity.
— N ATHAN WALKER
Editorial AssistantT echnology Will Invent New 
Methods of  Labor, not Destroy Them
There Goes A 
GayborhoodCHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON //  
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
OP-ED
As students, we have 
a choice to become 
involved with our local 
community rather than 
be strangers passing 
through an institution.
""
IS THERE MORE REASON TO BE HOPEFUL OR WEARY OF WHAT WILL COME 
WITH TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS?▶ SEE ENERGY ,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
YOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.edu
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
Should SDG&E experience a 
reduction in purchasing, it could 
have an issue of excess supply. 
Another incentive for SDG&E to 
oppose CCE is the government 
incentive to use rooftop solar, which 
would ultimately lead to decreased 
demand for its product, something 
that has certainly been a concern for 
the company long before the push for 
CCE.
This movement for CCE has largely 
been driven by local organizations like 
the Sierra Club and San Diego’s 350.
org chapter. Proponents of the energy 
alternative say that CCE is the single 
biggest thing that the city can do to 
reach its Climate Action Plan goals of fostering a greener economy, one of 
them being  a target to reduce carbon 
emissions to 50 percent of their 2010 
levels by the year 2035.
What matters now is contributing 
support to local action. In times when 
the energy surrounding environmental 
justice is so negative, it is motivating to 
look at our own campus as an example 
of how nonprofit, independent energy is 
economically and environmentally viable 
— 88 percent of the campus is powered 
by electricity from our local grid.
As students, we have a choice 
to become involved with our local 
community rather than be strangers 
passing through an institution. Right 
now, there is a chance to make your 
voice heard: Our representative, 
Barbara Bry, is not opposed to CCE but has not made any strong stances on it. 
UC San Diego is a huge proportion 
of her district and therefore her 
constituents — simple acts like signing 
this petition, making a phone call to 
her office or even joining organizing 
efforts with the Sierra Club and 
Student Sustainability Collective are 
different but effective ways to get 
involved. Community choice energy is 
an opportunity to bring a community 
together that fights for clean power, but 
inspires the kind of positive, passionate 
energy needed to make change at the 
local level. 
If  you are interested in learning more 
about CCE, contact Bryant Jew at bjew@
ucsd.edu or the writer, Rebecca Chong, at 
rcchong@ucsd.edu. ▶ ENERGY  from page 4Going professional in the music industry requires 
more than a few investments upfront: cash for studio 
recordings and equipment, cash for travel, and time 
to play and perform. It’s a difficult balancing act, especially 
when you’re a full-time student at UC San Diego. Jason Matkin, 
business major and singer-songwriter straddles the line between 
these antithetical obligations with the hope of succeeding in both. 
The UCSD Guardian sat down with Jason to discuss the highs 
and lows of being a student musician. 
Well aware of those hurdles, Matkin wryly reflected, “The 
industry is really hard … But if I could choose one career to 
do for the rest of my life, it would be music. ” He’s wanted to be 
a musician well before coming to UCSD, and his first album, 
“Forget the Dark, ” stands as testament to that desire. 
A mix of mountain folk and pop, it’s a one-man guitar-and-
voice collection and the culmination of years of work. 
“I started when I was in high school, ” Matkin noted. “There’s 
some songs that are very old. For example, ‘Parkside’ is the first 
one I ever wrote. ” 
When asked to discuss the connecting thread between 
business and his overarching musical aspirations, Matkin told 
the Guardian, “I figured international business would be more 
applicable to music. Being a musician is essentially being self-
employed, and you spend a lot of money. Recording, traveling, 
you know, getting where you need to go. On instruments, repairs, 
strings. ” 
Nonetheless, Matkin’s choice of major has borne fruit. “I make 
money playing at shows, restaurants and corporate events. With 
the knowledge I’ve acquired over these last two quarters, I’ve 
been able to convert it into a legitimate business. ” It’s a slow-going 
process, but his profile has grown over the last two years, and he’s 
started work on a follow-up to 2015’s “Forget the Dark. ”
With recent singles like “The Storm” and “Underwater, ” Jason 
has laid the foundations for a new album, planning to record 
during the early weeks of this spring quarter. His work has veered 
closer to an earthy, down-home style in recent years, accented by 
a personal enthusiasm for hiking and backpacking. 
Primary creative periods accompany times spent in Alaska 
at his uncle’s house. Upon a customary visit last August, Matkin 
found himself reinvigorated and ready to work again. “I went 
through a long period of no writing … It’s hard to be in such a 
picturesque location and not feel inspired. The first three days 
I was there, I wrote five songs. I played shows there … It was 
amazing how instantaneous it was when I got there — the writer’s 
block was just gone. ”
Matkin also touched on more pragmatic concerns. He was 
candid with the Guardian about the difficulty of receiving 
exposure. 
“Y ou can go about it just off promotion, promotion, promotion 
… Eventually, you might create a fanbase and a record label might 
sign you. Or it could just be dumb luck. ” 
He’s taken a philosophical stance toward the music industry 
rat-races, however. “The music itself is what I’m in this for. It’s not 
fame, necessarily. To me, success is being able to do what I love. ” A  Sit  down   with   Jason   Ma tkinAt the intersection of business and music, Jason Matkin 
charts a new course in collegiate folk.by Alicia Lepler // A&E Associate EditorIMAGE COURTESY OF JASON MATKINThe premise might 
seem patently absurd: 
19th-century German teens 
get embroiled in a salad-toss of sex, 
latin discourse, wet dreams, abuse 
and atheism. Well, that’s “Spring 
Awakening” for you. Adapted from a 100-year-old German play and 
packed off to Broadway in the ‘90s, 
Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater’s 
brainchild is a weird, wicked beast. 
Muir Musical has put its own 
spin on the production, making 
extensive use of “shadows” that accompany the protagonists and 
ventriloquize song through dance. 
It’s an interesting proposition, 
in the same line as Deaf West 
Theatre’s incorporation of ASL into 
performances. The choreography 
is occasionally haphazard, especially during big numbers, 
but communicates the students’ 
emotions effectively. Thankfully, 
“Spring Awakening” lends itself 
well to such tangible displays; 
between the subject matter and the 
soliloquies, the audience benefits 
from some guidance. 
The stage is sparser than that 
of 2016’s “In the Heights, ” a given 
considering Muir Musical had 
access to the national touring set. 
Costuming keeps fairly close to the 
original Broadway production and 
is effective in communicating the 
students’ youth; they dress in school 
clothes and wear short pants, and 
the girls have their hair in pigtails. 
The adults are overwhelmingly 
swathed in blacks and grays, 
befitting their status as taskmasters.
We open with the innocent 
Wendla Bergmann (Miranda Evans) 
asking her mother about the birds 
and bees. Naturally, accounting for 
time and setting, Frau Bergmann 
(Angelina Shea Harris) is 
scandalized beyond words. Where 
does a baby come from? Sadly, the 
stork story doesn’t hold water with 
Wendla anymore. 
The exchange, fraught with 
unspoken parental anxiety, is more 
than characteristic of the story 
that unfolds. Schoolboy Melchior 
Gabor (Andrew Paiva) struggles 
with the unforgiving discipline 
and censorship of adults, seeking 
out information on sex that we 
thankfully get today in Planned 
Parenthood packets. Melchy has 
to make do with a few musty 
textbooks on human anatomy. 
He and the boys lead a few ribald 
choruses, celebrating nightly 
masturbation. It’s more than a   
little silly.
Moritz Stiefel (Austyn Myers) 
is haunted by more than women’s 
legs, however — he’s all but failing his classes, and exams are around 
the corner. Nonetheless, those legs 
override his need to study, and 
Moritz entreats Melchior for a 
detailed journal on sex. Melchior, 
buddy that he is, acquiesces and 
includes drawings!
Meanwhile, Melchior grapples 
with his own devils: He doesn’t 
believe, as the girls are wont to 
swoon, “in anything. Not even 
God!” As such, Melchior wants 
nothing more than to cast off 
the dated self-righteousness of 
his elders, espousing free love 
and morality. Wendla is doubly 
conflicted, as she discovers one of 
her friends, Martha Bessell (Lea 
Magro), is regularly beaten by     
her father. 
These tumultuous desires and 
fears condense into an unbridled 
conflagration of love and violence. 
Moritz and Wendla, wracked with 
guilt and doubt, careen toward 
disaster. The adults are vicious 
arbiters of the law — Headmaster 
Knochenbruch (Christopher 
Thomas) is a man utterly 
without pity. Ultimately, “Spring 
Awakening” is more a tragedy 
than a drama, with attempts to 
leaven the plot left to a traditional 
Broadway ending and reprise. 
In addition, the usual opening-
night issues were minimal, with 
only a mic malfunction and 
intermittent overlap between the 
orchestra and singers. Neither 
detracted from the performances, 
all of which were excellent and 
well-executed. No off-notes or 
mistakes, and, as far as could be 
seen, no forgotten lyrics. Muir 
Musical’s “Spring Awakening” pops, 
and it’s a fun, wild ride.
—  Alicia Lepler
A&E Associate EditorA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
So  far, 2017 has been a 
fascinating year composed of 
the rote and irregular. Frank 
Ocean has returned and is releasing 
music semi-regularly, but Playboi 
Carti remains steadfast at depriving 
his remaining fans. Drake proved 
himself as capable at British English 
as he is at Canadian English but still 
yearns to speak in unadulterated 
patois while circling a heated pool. 
Kendrick Lamar is still too busy 
trying to prove he’s bona-fide woke 
to make a decent track, but at least 
someone else has now become 
concerned with making great music 
— Calvin Harris. 
Harris, the life-sized DJ Ken doll 
who’s produced mall classics like 
“Feel So Close” and “This Is What 
You Came For, ” has been lurking 
at the edges of pop excellence 
for years. The pieces have long 
been there. He had hooks and 
extravagant features but still lacked 
substance (or something similar 
to it). He made songs for the 
summer but never the song of the 
summer. His songs were destined 
to walk through department store 
purgatory for years instead of our 
precious personalized playlists. 
But for whatever reason, after his 
breakup with Grammy award-winning snake Taylor Swift, he put 
“it” together. We may not know 
what “it” is or how he did “it, ” but 
the results are undeniable. “Slide” 
and “Heatstroke” are anthems to 
youth, humidity and the undeniable 
pleasure of pop. Heartbreak Harris 
also vowed to never release an 
album again, instead opting to 
release music in pop forward singles 
that make sense of the zeitgeist and 
mold it into a four-minute bop.
Unconcerned with the typical 
conventions of the music besides 
making money, capitalist Harris 
has broken loose from the mindset 
afflicting artists everywhere. 
Albums, which he called “time-
consuming” and “limiting, ” are 
no longer the main concern — 
singles are. It makes sense for a 
man whose music has become 
ubiquitous after years on pop radio 
but who has barely made a lasting 
impression outside of the Billboard 
charts. Nobody’s looking to buy an 
18-track odyssey through Harris’ 
maitai-battered psyche, but a brief 
trip into the sands of his id? Sign 
us up.
Harris must be an enchantress. 
Ocean, who once called radio a 
soulless conveyor belt of music, 
is now being streamed to Gap stores nationwide and 
couldn’t be better. No longer 
must we linger in a society 
where people cede to 
the empty hooks of 
Selena Gomez. 
Now, people can 
instead sink into the 
honeyed croons of 
Ocean while searching 
for form-fitting non-
iron khakis. The world 
is a better place for this. 
We may still be ignoring the 
environmental and economic 
ravages that neoliberalism has 
brought upon our planet, but 
at least we’ve got one hell of a 
soundtrack on the way down. 
Operating off an uncanny 
understanding of market-driven 
data that looks like cultural 
intuition (or vice versa), Harris 
makes us question the authenticity 
of his two most recent singles. Were 
these made with heart and soul or 
nothing but commercial ambition? 
The ‘80s-inflected stylings of his 
new tracks and meme-friendly 
features would suggest not, but 
Harris elevated the art of elevator 
bangers past its current limits 
and into the realm of undeniable, 
appetite-sating hits. There’s an alchemy 
operating at 
perfect balance in Harris 
laboratories. There’s no way he 
could have predicted Offset would 
have shown up Quavo by rapping 
about Ricky Ricardo, or that 
Young Thug was again going to 
prove himself as the best rapper 
under 30 or that Ocean wasn’t just 
a myth. But Harris, now curator 
extraordinaire, did it.
The bounce imbued in both 
singles must have found its origin 
somewhere deep within our own 
circadian rhythms, releasing an unmissable 
groove that few 
others have been able to tap into. 
Bruno Mars and Carly Rae Jepsen, 
who have long shared a timeshare 
there, would be remiss not to 
welcome Harris into the fold.
—  Sam  Velazquez
A&E Editor“Spring Awakening” is in full bloom at the Mandeville Auditorium, courtesy of our own Muir Musical.
We don’t expect much from our DJs except for a humble 
jockeying of the discs, but Calvin Harris aspires to 
become something more as a nascent auteur.Spring  a w akening
Cal vin  Harris:
Free  From  the  Shackles  
of  MediocrityPHOTO COURTESY OF MUIR MUSICAL
Director   Nicole McEntee
Writer   Steven Sater
Starring Miranda Evans, Andrew Paiva, Austyn Myers
Release Date   April 8 –15, 2017 A-PLA Y  REVIEW
We are not accustomed to a tight presidential campaign anymore 
here at UCSD, but this year there are four candidates standing 
tall on the debate stage, vying for the right to be our 
next student body president. Though no one is a bad 
candidate, Lesly Figueroa stood out to us the most. 
She is currently the Associate Vice President of 
Environmental Justice Affairs and the Triton 
Food Pantry student manager, among other 
roles, and is running on a platform of 
creating a student-centered institution with 
her progressive colleagues. Figueroa is not 
just a candidate that throws around big 
words and does not follow up on them. She has shown in the past, working with University Centers and at the Food 
Pantry, that she’s the right candidate for the job. An urban studies and 
planning major, she’s well aware of the issues facing UCSD as a large 
community, from food affordability to housing and transportation. 
She has tangible plans to address those issues, like the rerouting of 
shuttles or advocating for off-campus, university-owned housing. Her 
platform is a breath of fresh air, focusing on issues that students face 
daily and providing practical, long-term solutions to those issues. 
There is nothing fluffy or phony about Figueroa or her candidacy. In 
her debate, her passion was apparent when discussing students’ basic 
needs. We appreciate that she had succinct ideas. With presidents only 
serving for one year, she recognizes her limitations and has set out 
clear, non-farfetched goals for accomplishing them in her short tenure 
if she is elected. Despite the talented candidates in this year’s field, 
Figueroa stands out with her spirit and her ideas and as a leader 
will undoubtedly make a responsible and effective A.S. president.
Refilwe Gqajela’s passion for UC San Diego has been demonstrated 
numerous times through her commitment to social activism and 
community outreach, not just in her continued work through the 
Black Student Union and Black Resource Center, but also 
through her internship and experience at the Student 
Sustainability Collective. This experience will prove 
invaluable as UCSD and A.S. must answer tough 
questions this year regarding UCSD’s possible 
status as a sanctuary college amid dwindling 
federal support. In addition, Gqajela recognizes 
the importance of student outreach and 
challenges the idea of student apathy on a 
campus where many students are unaware of the issues. Her self-described mission is to build student coalitions 
around these topics and encourage students to make their voices heard 
through the appropriate channels so that they may engage with the 
community both inside and outside of UCSD. Her expertise, however, 
expands beyond the campus boundaries. Both in her community at 
home and here in San Diego, Gqajela has built a reputation around 
strong community engagement, as exemplified by her internship for U.S. 
Congressperson Scott Peters. This passion has driven her to strongly 
question A.S. ’s complicit role in many of the injustices around the world, 
including the Dakota Access Pipeline, which she supports divesting 
from. These experiences, combined with realistic and concrete ideas 
for student outreach, make her a strong choice for A.S. VP of External 
Affairs.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER  KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A.S. PRESIDENT
VICE PRESIDENT EXTERNAL AFFAIRSLESLY FIGUEROA, STUDENTS DETERMINED 
REFILWE GQAJELA, STUDENTS DETERMINED 
a.s. endorsementsucsd guardian 2017
Though a year ago Matthew Arrollado would have laughed at the 
idea of running for Vice President Campus Affairs, his sincerity and 
excitement about his goals for this position are no joke. Currently 
serving as an A.S. Council senator for Eleanor Roosevelt College, 
he has also held other positions in student government, including 
membership on the Well-Being Cluster Student Advisory Board and an 
undergraduate representative for UC SHIP . These experiences, among 
others, show that he has an informed perspective of student issues. 
Arrollado also has experience being criticized as a student leader. 
Recently, Student Council of ERC, which he is a part of, received flack 
for its seemingly exorbitant spending on itself. Matthew, however, 
handled it in stride, holding extra office hours and actively reaching 
out to people on social media to explain SCERC’s perspective. He 
intends to increase A.S. Council’s transparency and visibility and, since 
he’s already doing this with SCERC, we believe that he will actually 
make this happen. His slate is running on the pretense of developing long-term 
goals for the university through an equity-minded lens. His goals for 
transportation and representing students’ needs reflect this. He says 
that he will use the transportation survey, which 
was sent out to students last quarter, to 
better understand students’ parking and 
transportation needs. Additionally, 
he intends to increase support 
for transfer students through 
a central resource center and 
to have more programming 
directed at transfers. 
Matthew’s experience and 
candor made us believe that 
students actually can thrive 
here. 
VICE PRESIDENT CAMPUS AFFAIRS
MATTHEW ARROLLADO, THRIVE
Every year the UCSD Guardian Editorial Board interviews A.S. Council candidates for president, vice president of campus and external affairs 
and the campuswide senators. These endorsements do not reﬂect individual editorial board members’ voting preferences. Presidential 
candidate Aaron Dalton Burgess and campuswide senator candidate Julia Prinzi did not respond to our request for an interview. 
THRIVE photos courtesy of Akanksha Kevalramani and Students Determined photos courtesy of Dellanira Alcauter and David Liao. With many candidates running for a campuswide senator position 
and only five slots, it’s difficult to determine who is most qualified. 
Snehal “Sne” Lochan’s experience and clear ideas, however, made her a 
viable candidate for this position. We especially appreciate her concrete 
ideas about increasing A.S. Council transparency and visibility. She 
believes that there shouldn’t be a barrier between the students and the 
Council and hopes to combat this by creating practical avenues for 
students to get in touch with their representatives. For example, she 
wants to improve the A.S. Council website and create an anonymous 
online outlet for students to voice their concerns and feedback. 
Additionally, Sne prioritizes mental health, a longstanding student 
concern. Sne notices that there is a stigma surrounding Counseling and 
Psychological Services and Campus Assault Resources and Education 
services and hopes to make these spaces 
more visible. She wants A.S. Council 
to host fundraisers to promote these spaces and raise money to provide short-term assistance. She envisions 
a speaker-type series to destigmatize mental health and hopes that 
professors will be part of this. She also wants professors to 
be more vocal about CAPS in their classes. She noted 
that some professors mention CAPS in their 
syllabus but do not take the time to follow up or 
mention this later on in the class. Sne’s clear 
goals about transparency and mental health 
show us that she has the right mindset for 
campuswide senator. 
A major contributor to the Co-ops, Mohamed Al Elew brings to the 
table a mix of much-needed experience, willingness and passion from a 
campuswide senator. He is a second-year computer engineering major, 
a member of the UCSD College Democrats and a much-improved 
version of the kid who was in student government in third grade. Al 
Elew has risen this past year in the shadow of campuswide senator 
Rachel Adams, herself a member of the Co-ops, and is dedicated to 
representing people frequenting those spaces. Like her, he is running on 
a platform that includes fighting for student-oriented spaces, like The 
Che Cafe or art spaces, and he is willing to be the bridge between those 
and the UCSD administration. But he doesn’t just want to represent 
those students, as he also possesses broader interests including but 
not limited to being a student of the Jacobs School of Engineering. He 
is critical of the issues facing A.S. Council and promises to operate in 
consensus and compromise. To 
him, the public — in this case the student body — should have more access to senators, and one of 
his ideas involves advocating for a press secretary to A.S. Council. For 
Al Elew, A.S. Council cannot continue to take sudden and unilateral 
decisions, like the defunding of student media. Al 
Elew is a candidate ready to work to build a 
student dialogue and to use his position 
in A.S. Council to serve and advocate 
for the student body, making him a 
shoo-in as a campuswide senator for 
a council that desperately needs 
to represent more of the student 
body.With their focus on institutionalizing progressive practices and 
unmistakable keenness to do so, Miguel Angel Tapia is a candidate with 
strong ideals and genuine understanding of their role in A.S. Council. 
Bringing community voices to A.S. is at the forefront of 
their campaign, and Tapia has outlined specific 
issues currently persisting in this realm, such 
as the historic disenfranchisement of the 
voices of students of color. They also 
discussed small-scale solutions, including 
collaborating with SAC organizations 
to give them a greater say in A.S., and 
large-scale solutions, including using 
their greater access to connections 
and opportunities to put pressure on the administration. Tapia’s ideas span a wide range of important 
issues, from sanctuary campus policy, to divestment from DAPL, 
to voter registration, to overnight programs, proving their nuanced 
understanding of campus issues and smart look at where A.S. could 
make change. Perhaps most importantly, Tapia is highly qualified in 
service. Their first year at UCSD, Tapia was the chairperson of Education 
and Awareness for UConsent, working to destigmatize conversations 
of sexual assault and awareness, as well as a member of Cultural House 
in Muir College, where they sprung conversations about proper yet 
appropriate vocabulary with respect to LGBTQ identity, positionality 
and accessibility. All around, Tapia’s repertoire reads as varied yet 
focused, which will prove meaningful in their advocacy for community 
engagement, institutionalization of policy and representation of student 
voices in A.S. Council.
Monica Valdez is a qualified candidate with an impressive history in 
serving and representing students. But one of the most promising things 
about her candidacy is this: She wants to be held accountable. Though 
accountability is a word thrown around so much that it seems to lose 
meaning, it’s believable coming from a candidate whose 
goals center around finding out what students want 
and need rather than deciding for them.
She says that when students feel like 
they can, they will. This is the thread that 
weaves her plans together and has a 
place in addressing retention rates for 
underrepresented students.
A commuter student, an out-of-
state student and a first-generation 
American and college student, a major part of her platform is ensuring that students feel they have a home at 
UC San Diego. For commuter students, it’s converting unused campus 
spaces to study and nap areas. For everyone, it’s adding ease and security 
to the process of securing housing. More broadly, her plan to utilize 
existing resources by making them more visible is feasible and necessary. 
Speaking of the Inter-Tribal Resource Center, she pointed out in our 
interview that even she, a Native American and Latina student, wasn’t 
aware some campus centers until recently because its existence is not 
publicized. 
Her passion for student government shows as she talks about her 
plans, whether they are collaborating with the future president on 
housing issues or finding ways to make students feel at home at the 
massive campus that is UCSD. We are confident as an editorial board 
that she will honor her desire to be held accountable and work to make 
UCSD a home to students.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
CAMPUSWIDE SENATOR
CAMPUSWIDE SENATORCAMPUSWIDE SENATOR
CAMPUSWIDE SENATORSNEHAL LOCHAN, STUDENTS DETERMINED 
MOHAMED AL ELEW, THRIVE MIGUEL ANGEL TAPIA, STUDENTS DETERMINED 
MONICA VALDEZ, THRIVE 10  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Although he’s only a second year, Kian Falah has already made a 
mark in A.S. Council this past year, both as the chief-of-staff of the 
Office of College Affairs and the A.S. Fellowship Director, a professional 
development initiative aimed at new students interested in student 
government. He has also been active with UCSD Circle K and done 
community service, all of which led him to his interest for the campus-
wide senator position. Kian wants to have a lasting impact on campus, 
one that can withstand the years and his graduation. Two of his goals are 
to create an alliance between student organizations and A.S. Council, 
as well as to hold quarterly townhalls for campuswide senators to get 
them out of their chambers and in front of their constituents. This 
is on par with his down-to-earth attitude and makes him one of the 
most approachable candidates the UCSD Guardian has interviewed. 
He is also confident in his abilities to 
empower students through the fellowship 
program. Like many other candidates, Falah highlighted the lack of transparency of A.S. Council and the need 
for an updated website, something he will push for in his term. Finally, 
he will advocate for students to be exposed to the flourish of 
organizations and centers that the campus has to offer, 
even those who don’t necessarily fit them. He is a 
passionate candidate whose attention to detail 
and continuous commitment is likely to take 
A.S. Council by storm. All in all, Falah is an 
experienced, hard-working and dedicated 
candidate who is sure to continue to 
make an impact in A.S. Council the     
upcoming year.
CAMPUSWIDE SENATOR
KIAN FALAH, THRIVE 
VOTE  ON  TRITONLINKA.S. ELECTIONs 2017
APRIL 10-14. FOR MORE INFO VISIT AS.UCSD.EDU/ELECTIONSFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
LIFESTYLECONTACT THE EDITOR
BRITTNEY LU
features@ucsdguardian.org
Muir  Out spoken  Speak s  Out  Loud
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Some work with parametric lines and planes, some with pages and paragraphs; both are capable 
of curating unique art forms that speak in multiple dimensions. For Muir College sophomore 
Henri Etel Skinner, the intersection of diverse community, contrasting academia, personal 
experience and inherent creativity drives her passion to create spaces where words can fall on 
a page from any author who wants to tell a story. In the midst of winter quarter blues, Skinner 
shares how it was through written words and creative thinking that helped her not only understand 
herself better, but explain that part of her identity to others too. And this past fall, she helped 
co-create Muir Outspoken, a gathering atop of Tioga Hall where writers of all skill levels and of all 
backgrounds congregate to compose. 
“I’m so glad this space exists, ” Skinner said. “It has not only provided a place for students to stop 
thinking about school [through] writing, but to get over the fear of not writing well … to stretch 
writing abilities, [and] to take the reality of our thoughts and lives — sometimes heartbreaking 
and sometimes silly — and putting it into words. ” At an institution where students can operate on 
a cycle of learning, memorizing, retaining and disposing, Muir Outspoken is a space to take better, 
and perhaps a more holistic, ownership of what is learned both in and out of the lecture.  
Since its origin fall quarter, Muir Outspoken has already seen its fair share of up-and-coming 
creative writers. In the process of developing more creative writers, Muir Outspoken has also 
cultivated a community where “people are [beginning] to understand each other through creative 
thoughts, ” where students are more than “classes, jobs or an answer to a homework problem, ” says 
Skinner. In this unique community, and perhaps divine space that stimulates a search for identity, 
group processing and cognitive creativity helps this band of scribes express themselves in ways that 
go beyond what is seen on resumes or quantified through GPAs. 
In this space for creative writers and thinkers, artistic movers and shakers, Skinner hopes 
that each person will begin to retrospectively realize their individually-gifted “ability to think 
creatively. ” For her, “creativity does not [solely] mean you can paint something well, write a sonnet 
within five minutes, or create an entire backstory for a meme economy presentation” — all of 
which have been byproducts of Muir Outspoken. Rather, Skinner believes that it is instead the 
ability to introspectively reflect and “tell a story no one else would be able to tell, ” from whatever 
perspective one uniquely brings to the writing table. She concludes her own story with Muir 
Outspoken by inviting even more to join her tribe of troubadours, no matter how much writing 
experience one may have, or how “creative” one may perceive themselves. (Normalcy in creative 
thought is presumably only a consequence of social constructs, no? But I digress.) So she asks, 
“Does physiology leave you wondering about some wild biological scenario? Do you unashamedly 
want to work on math because you love the way numbers fall into place? Do you love the beauty 
of consistency in physics?” Because in the end, “that is all creativity. ” 
Her active pursuit to challenge and redefine what creativity looks like, coupled with her crusade 
for a community that is all-inclusive, yet heightens the individual experience, is iconically Henri 
Skinner — she lives through stanzas, perceives through poetry and sees a world where all are 
welcome to come and color it in. And through Muir Outspoken, this is exactly the sort of space 
where you are invited to do the same. So pick up a pencil and a few loose-leaf sheets and check out 
Muir Outspoken to hear some stories as you share your own. 
The Loft: Growing Grounds of Crea tivity
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
It’s not often we find spaces at UC San Diego conducive to creating oppor -
tunities to engage creatively or to express oneself in nonacademic ways. The 
emphasis here is primarily STEM (a beautiful necessity) and UCSD is first and 
foremost known to be a research institute. But to be frank, the architectural lay -
out — and perhaps more so, barrier — prevents student congregation for public 
expression of thought and instead constitutes a loose and isolating network of 
quasi-amphitheater-like spaces (but more on that another time, another day). 
So, in having structured spaces like The Loft, students are able to witness 
and be witness to soul-speaking, soul-baring moments of spoken word, music, 
poetry and everything else in between. Located on the second floor of Price 
Center, across from the Cross Cultural Center, this space is home to concerts, 
spoken word and visual art. Some noteworthy features at The Loft include Art 
Power, an event that hosts performances of local and global artists and a gallery 
that is installed into the walled interior. Quarterly opportunities can also arise, 
like Color and Chill, where students can tap into their artistic potential. But it’s 
in events like Blabbermouth that really help give voice to the student. On the 
first day of every month, Blabbermouth hosts student performances of poetic 
prose or original songs. In 10-minute segments, students from any major, any 
college and any experience are able to storytell in whatever medium that ampli -
fies their voice best. And in an institute where it can be relatively easy to fall 
into the crowd of 400 in a chemistry lecture, an intimate space like this one can 
help humanize and revitalize.
Known to be the “social crossroads of emerging art and pop culture, ” The 
Loft speaks through its performances and design. It’s meant to be simultane -
ously “absorptive and collective” while capturing the “dynamism” of voyeurship. 
Run by and for students, The Loft is the ultimate dichotomy of coming to learn 
and be learned about. 
photo courtesy of The Loftphoto courtesy of Henri Etel Skinner
photo courtesy of Henri Etel Skinner photo courtesy of Henri Etel Skinner12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Ent anglements: Rae Armantrout 
Finds the Poetr y in Phy sics
 by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Rae Armantrout is a versatile poet. 
Armantrout was born in 1947 on a California naval base. She attended UC Berkeley and was part of 
the first generation of Language poets, an avant garde group that brought poetry to the postmodernist 
sphere. In 2010, she won the Pulitzer Prize with “Versed, ” a book consisting of poems mainly relating to 
Armantrout’s battle with cancer. 
The words she chooses in her work appear to look simple, but her ideas are profound. She is well-
known within a field where not many are. 
“Entanglements, ” recently published, was inspired by Armantrout’s burgeoning interest in science. 
The title has two meanings: One is based on the idea that particles can become so entangled that there 
is virtually no space between them; the second is about Armantrout’s entanglement with physics itself. 
Armantrout is currently a professor emerita at UC San Diego within the literature department. Join 
her on April 13 in the Atkinson Hall Auditorium as she reads poems from “Entanglements, ” discusses 
the process behind her work and describes how she was able to combine science with the written word. Student  Poets  Break  the  Silence  
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Maria Omelchenko found her knack for poetry in 
elementary school. 
“I think back in the fourth grade, I don’t know if you guys had this, but we had a student-
of-the-month thing, and everyone got a student of the month award, and mine was like, ‘Oh, 
you’re a really good writer, ’” Omelchenko said. “So I kind of just started to dabble with writing 
and dabble with poetry. ” 
In high school, she discovered her love for spoken word. “When my friends started a club, 
I started going to that club, and then I kind of fell in love with [spoken word] from there, ” 
Omelchenko said. “Just the emotion, the feeling, the power that you can actually hear people 
read words instead of just reading it on paper: It’s just a different feeling. ”
So, when Omelchenko arrived at UC San Diego, she set out to join a spoken word club but 
quickly realized there were none. 
“When I would go to my high school [spoken word] club, it was kind of like a getaway from 
everything else that was going on in life … it really brought a lot of people together, through 
the word, through how people express themselves, so when I came to college I was looking for 
a club like that, but I couldn’t find one, ” Omelchenko said. “I couldn’t even find a poetry club, 
even, so I kind of decided to take matters into my own hands because I feel like I know a lot of 
people who do write, not even just spoken word but poetry in general, and I wanted to bring 
that to this campus because I was quite shocked that we didn’t have something like that, and 
we definitely need to promote the arts at this university. ” 
Thus, Omelchenko took to Facebook and found fellow poetry-lover and Muir College 
sophomore Leonardo Amador. They, along with a few other principal members, joined forces 
to create Break the Silence, UCSD’s first and only spoken word club. 
Many young adults are drawn to poetry, specifically slam poetry, because the words give 
them power or allow a form of expression. 
“I like the raw emotion that comes attached to [slam poetry]. A lot of slam is very personal, 
people writing about stuff that they struggle with, their inner demons, ” Amador said. 
“It’s a good way to cope, I feel, because a lot of the time when it comes to spoken word and 
when it comes to poetry in general, not often do you hear people read or perform poetry that’s 
necessarily happy, ” Omelchenko said. “ A lot of the time writing comes from very dark places 
in our hearts, so I feel like it’s a good way to release that energy because, definitely, when I sit 
down and write I’m in a certain state of mind. ”
Through Break the Silence, Omelchenko hopes to establish a place on campus for both 
poets and nonpoets to share those emotions openly and freely. “My main purpose of the club, 
and this is pretty much said at every meeting, [is that] it’s a safe space, ” she said. “So, whatever’s 
said in the club shouldn’t be publicly mentioned, no one should be discussed, and it should 
really be a safe space with no judgment for everyone to read what they want to read, even if it’s 
a haiku, even if it’s a short story, even if that’s not even poetry but they just want to go ahead 
and read a five-minute story, that’s fine too. ”
Amador agrees. “I know one of our big goals is to make it a place that people come out and 
be who they want to be, be vulnerable and be able to tell people what they’re thinking or what 
they’re feeling, ” he said. 
Break the Silence meets every other Wednesday at 7 p.m. Its next meeting is on April 19 
in Conference Room 300 in the Student Center. Visit its Facebook page for more informationHow to live y our life b y an es y s 
major:  science  and  scribing
by Nadia Link // Staff Writer
THW ACK! Cindy shot up, instantly scanning her pitch-black surroundings. The room was 
too dark to see anything but she knew she wasn’t alone … She tried to focus on lowering her 
heart rate when suddenly … Did I get your attention? (I hope so, because I put way too much 
thought into that introduction …) 
Assuming that I did pique your interest, I’m going to have to pull a “bait and switch” because 
this column is unfortunately not about a harrowing tale of a late-night break-in but about how to 
get the attention of readers and to keep it when you’re discussing less-than-entertaining material 
such as scientific breakthroughs and environmental issues. That’s right my friends. This shall be 
another informative piece involving the environment and sustainability. But continue coming 
back, for maybe someday I shall reward your patience with, I don’t know, a haiku?
Anyway, chances are unless you’re a science major, breakthroughs in climate change research 
and the environmental issues themselves are hard to follow, understand the relevance of 
and apply to normal-life routines. For the most part, the science itself is explained in a very 
convoluted and complicated way, so communication is key if a writer or researcher wants to get 
the word out on their work and the issues involved. I’m going to get a little personal here, but 
while I was always interested in science, I was never quite as good at the data and research part 
as I was at communicating through writing and video. For that reason, I have put a lot of effort 
in trying to engage people and help them better understand the full impact of environmental 
and sustainability issues in their lives.  
My favorite technique — literally just translate the science into its practical applications 
or real world effects. Yeah it's a bummer that sea levels are rising, but many people often 
don’t see the urgency and the need for change until you mention how there are small island 
countries that are literally not going to exist in a matter of years. Mentioning the real-world 
impact gives relevance to the problems. 
That however, is where you hit another 
problem in communicating the topic of 
sustainability: the fact that some of the 
problems seem too far progressed for 
any one individual to have any impact. 
Complacency is one of the most 
significant hurdles to overcome when 
handling environmental issues. It is 
absolutely disheartening to hear about 
temperature rise and species extinction 
rates. But the best way to overcome the 
challenge is to always present a possible 
solution. The United States’ dependence 
on gasoline for transportation seems too 
far along to change, but when you learn of a 
replacement fuel that is more or less ready 
to go now, like algae biofuel, prospects 
seem much more positive. Keep 
mentioning the solutions whenever you 
mention the problem and before long, 
the solution becomes more and more 
obvious to the point where it can build 
traction in the public eye and someday 
overcome the status quo.  
The last thing I want to mention is the actual 
vernacular. I purposely used a fancy word in place 
of vocabulary because it made me seem (i.e. feel) 
smarter which in many ways undermined my point. 
When writing pieces that are intended for public 
audiences, trying to sound smart can be off-putting 
and even condescending. Superhero movies aren’t 
popular because of their complex storylines. 
They’re popular because they’re interesting and 
easy to follow. The same should be said about 
informative pieces on the climate. They should 
be written with enthusiasm and an overall 
sense of positivity. If you feel good writing 
it, then the reader most likely will feel good 
reading it.  
To quote a character from the popular 
game “Overwatch, ” “our world is worth fighting 
for. ” As a campus full of scientists, it’s important 
to remember that it will require a group effort 
not just from our fellow scientifically-inclined 
brethren but everyone else as well. How we 
communicate our breakthroughs and discoveries 
can often be just as crucial in solving the world’s 
problems as the breakthroughs themselves.
Illustrations by Christina CarlsonCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
SPRING AWAKENING
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM • ARTPOWERTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
APR 10 - APR 162017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 4.10WED 4.12APRIL 13 -15 • 8pm
THU 4.13
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE4.11
10am
TRITON SPRING CAREER FAIR - 
PRICE CENTER BALLROOM EAST 
AND WEST
Meet face-to-face with top employers seeking to 
hire you! Now's your chance to make valuable 
contacts, learn inside information (the stuff you 
can’t always find online), and leave behind a 
personal impression that employers will 
remember! Follow these steps to make the most 
of your Career Fair experience -- whether you are 
ready for a full-time position, an internship or 
simply searching for information on employers 
and your target industry. Contact: 
stu-cloi@mail.ucsd.edu Website: 
http://career.ucsd.edu/
11am
BODY COMPOSITION -THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu10am
SIGEP SPRING RECRUITMENT
MULTIPLE DATES
MON, APR 10, 2017 10:00PM - 11:55PM
TUE, APR 11, 2017 6:00PM - 9:00PM
WED, APR 12, 2017 6:00PM - 9:00PM
THU, APR 13, 2017 6:00PM - 9:00PM
Check out our Facebook event page to stay current 
with all the week's events, and updates throughout 
the week! More information about the fraternity 
can be found at ucsdsigep.com If you have any 
questions, you can contact: Vice President of 
Recruitment: Lucas Borowski (619) 253-3773  
Rush Chairman: Alex Gilges (585) 354-2324 
Contact: acann@ucsd.edu 916-705-2223. 
Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/6559914879259
93/3pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
CRAFTCHELLA - THE HUMP @ THE 
STUDENT CENTER
FESTIVAL SEASON IS JUST AROUND THE 
CORNER!!! Get ready for all the upcoming 
festivals and concerts this spring with some 
FREE DIY crafts to get you ready and looking cute 
for festival season! We will be having be FREE 
DIY chokers, tie-dye shirts, and flower 
crowns!!!! The event will be hosted at the Hump 
which is right next to Hi-Thai in the Student 
Center! We will be giving out FREE gear and art 
supplies from 3-5PM. This is a FREE student 
event but just remember to bring your Student ID 
with you! Contact: cenmarketing@ucsd.edu. 
Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/14055126561
39206/
SAT4.15
9:30am
5TH ANNUAL CIGARETTE BUTT 
CLEAN UP - THE ZONE
Please join us at UCSD's 5th Annual Cigarette 
Butt Clean-up! Support UCSD's smoke-free 
campus by cleaning up the cigarette litter 
found on our campus with fellow members of 
the UCSD community! The first 100 registrants 
that attend the event will receive a free "Sun 
God Says..." T-Shirt, and everyone will receive 
complimentary snacks and water. **All 
materials (gloves and bags to put the cigarette 
butts in) will be provided. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/5th-annual-cigar
ette-butt-clean-up-uc-san-diego-tickets-33255
837104
11am
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
VS. CAL STATE LA - NORTHVIEW 
TENNIS COURTS
Come out and support your UC San Diego 
Tritons as they compete against Cal State LA's 
Women's Tennis team! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
A practice to help increase focus and 
concentration, reduce stress and gain 
a sense of well-being. Whether or not 
you have ever meditated, you may 
enjoy this sampling of techniques as 
they guide you to the blissful silence 
behind thoughts. Seated, standing, 
lying down and moving techniques 
may be covered. Suitable for all levels 
of experience. All classes with Vou 
Athens. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
UC SAN DIEGO/WSGR 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
SERIES: FORMING A 
COMPANY I - ROTH 
AUDITORIUM, SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM FOR 
REGENERATIVE 
MEDICINE
San Diego Research Affairs & The 
Office of Innovation and 
Commercialization is partnering with 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
(WSGR), a premier law firm in 
corporate and intellectual property 
matters, to bring an eighteen-month 
Entrepreneurship Seminar series to UC 
San Diego and the Mesa. This monthly 
series is focused on educating 
innovators and entrepreneurs on the 
various aspects of technology 
commercialization, company formation 
and funding. In addition to staff and 
students, the Office of Research 
Affairs welcomes all community 
members, including other research 
institutions, to participate in this free 
seminar series. Please use the links 
below to reserve your space for one or 
all of the seminars. 1:00pm - 5:00pm: 
Introduction/Overview in the 
auditorium. 5:00pm - 6:00pm: 
Reception on the terrace. Contact: 
invent@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE 
ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet 
therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu4pm
INTER-SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL 
MIXER - SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE 
CENTER
The Inter-Sustainability Council is a student organization at 
UCSD whose goal is to bring together all of the student 
sustainability orgs to foster an environment of growth and 
productivity so we may be the sustainability resource for 
students on campus. We will be hosting our spring quarter 
mixer on Thursday, April 13 from 4-6PM in the Sustainability 
Resource Center and all students as well as any interested 
faculty and staff are welcome to come! The event is informal 
and is a wonderful opportunity for students to learn more 
about what ISC does and the role we play in providing access 
to resources to students about sustainability at UCSD. Food 
and refreshments will be provided! Contact: 
k7scott@ucsd.edu Website: http://iscucsd.wixsite.com/main
5pm
THE MASK YOU LIVE IN - COMUNIDAD 
LARGE, CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
What mask do you put on every day? Join us for a screening 
and discussion of Jennifer Siebel Newsom's documentary "The 
Mask You Live In", which depicts the issues men face when 
growing up and trying to fit into what America's definition of 
a man is. Contact: gmiramon@ucsd.edu
6pm
UC SAN DIEGO BASEBALL VS. CAL 
POLY POMONA - TRITON BALLPARK
Come out and support your UC San Diego Tritons as they face 
off against Cal Poly Pomona's Baseball team! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6pm
ENTANGLEMENTS: RAE ARMANTROUT 
& THE POETRY OF PHYSICS -ATKINSON 
HALL AUDITORIUM
One of the favorite subjects of Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Rae 
Armantrout (Professor Emerita, UCSD) is physics--from the 
big ideas of cosmology to the infinitesimally small wonders of 
the quantum world. To celebrate the publication of 
Entanglements, a chapbook selection of her science-minded 
poems, Brian Keating (Astrophysics, UCSD) and the Clarke 
Center are hosting an evening with Rae Armantrout, who will 
read selections and discuss the creative process behind her 
work. Keating, along with Brandon Som (Creative Writing, 
UCSD) and Amelia Glaser (Literature, UCSD), will join her in a 
conversation about how these poems mix the personal with 
the scientific and speculative, the process of 
interdisciplinary creativity, and what her poetic engagement 
with physics can teach those working in the physical 
sciences.FRI4.14
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Korean Food! Friday International Cafe is a 
weekly lunch hosted by the International Center 
featuring a different country every week, where 
students, faculty, and staff can learn about the 
culture as well as enjoy a representative cuisine 
of the featured country. Invite your friends for a 
fun lunch and a plate full of delicious cuisines 
for $5 a plate!
MUIR MUSICAL ENSEMBLE AND AS PRESENTS14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
Across
1. ‘’Bells Are Ringing’’ actor Eddie
4. Applications with blanks, e.g.
9. Support
14. Swear words?
15. Covent Garden event
16. High-tech surgical tool
17. Three options for 35-Across
20. Played city after city
21. A social grace
22. Tosses the horsehide
23. Part of a pirate ship
25. Follow a Vail trail
28. Cruiser at 1,350 mph
29. What some hoods cop
31. Having all one’s marbles
33. Makes hermetic
34. Flowery attractions
35. Gain an early advantage
38. Hedy of Hollywood
39. Antipathetical
40. Show biz awards since 1949
41. Rampal’s instrument
42. Kubrick’s computer
45. Leaves for a party?
46. Couric’s ‘’Today’’ partner
48. Avignon’s river
50. Look after
51. Crop up
52. Four options for 35-Across
57. Fabulous fellow
58. Makes, as money
59. Roth --- (investment choice)
60. Irritable
61. Word with shirt or shop
62. Kind of careDown
1. Liquor purchases
2. Detestable
3. Ice cream alternative
4. Three options for 35-Across
5. Newspaper’s essay forum
6. Exercise unit
7. CAT scan relative
8. December hirees
9. Three options for 35-Across
10. Enthralled
11. Venomous snake
12. Lincoln center?
13. Make muffs
18. Net destination
19. Garbage collector?
23. Soccer sensation
24. French explorer of the Mississippi
25. Stitch souvenir
26. Bagpiper’s attire
27. Age verifiers
30. Lionized actor?
32. Jazz home
33. Linger
34. High sch. exam
35. Safari sighting
36. Jane Austen title
37. Sullen
38. Authorize
41. Falsifies a bit
42. Exceedingly bad
43. Kind of rabbit or goat
44. Room to maneuver
47. Director Lee
49. Nameless woman
50. Hambletonian event
51. European erupter
52. Mare’s morsel
53. Collar shape
54. Part of a dollar sign
55. Hem’s partner
56. Rock depositBIKES
Opus Legato Bicycle - $300. A great tour -
ing bicycle. Solid build with accessories 
including helmet, bicycle pump, front and 
rear lights, panniers and lock. Listing ID: 
247469521 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beach Cruiser Bikes - $175. Roommate and 
I are moving cross country and can’t take 
the bikes. Bought them in September. In 
attractive condition. Kept inside when not 
in use. One is sea foam green and one 
is grey-blue. Both with floral cup holders 
and wicker baskets. Listing ID: 245794248 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Mountain Bike - $350. Great bike. Has lights. 
Fast and clean. Ready for a new owner. 
Listing ID: 244614666 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Like New Logitech Wireless Keyboard - 
$14.99. Used very few times. Mint condi -
tion. Comes with original box and Logitech unify USB receiver. Listing ID: 247469595 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Playstation 3 with 5 Games  - $75. Selling my 
used Playstation. With Call of Duty World at 
War, Skate 3, UFC 3, Mafia 2 and Call of 
Duty Ghost. Comes with three controllers. 
Listing ID: 247469593 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Polaroid Camera - $70. Selling my Polaroid 
camera. Been used three times. Does not 
come with batteries or film. Listing ID: 
247469590 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Hydraulic Bar Stool Set - $80. Matching pair 
of air actuated bar stools in exceptional 
condition. Listing ID: 247469632 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Black Cabinet - $295. Black cabinet with 
glass doors. Perfect for television. Like new. 
Listing ID: 247469629 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationBrown Leather Recliner - $150. Exceptional 
condition. Real leather. Very comfortable. 
You pick up. Listing ID: 247469616 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
Level: 1234Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS | APRIL 14, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUAD
-Free for UC San Diego undergrad students with valid I.D. 
-21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.
-For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu or (858) 534-0477.LUMPIA
CITYDOGGOS
GUSCHURROS
EL TIGRERED
SAMBUSASKETTLE
MASTERS
KETTLE KORN
The UC San Diego women’s 
tennis team faced off against the 
University of Hawaii-Hilo last 
Monday and Point Loma Nazarene 
University the following Thursday. 
The Tritons swept Hawaii-Hilo 
(9–0) but fell to Point Loma (6–3) to 
finish the week with a 15–4 record 
for the season. 
Vs. Hawaii-Hilo
UCSD dominated Hawaii-Hilo, 
easily securing victories at all three 
doubles positions. Junior Britta 
Mosser and senior Shannon Theisen 
claimed an 8–2 victory at the one 
spot. Sophomore Ashley Chao and freshman Becky Chou grabbed 
themselves an 8–0 bagel at the two. 
At the three spot, the sophomore 
tandem of Madison Hale and 
Alexandra Weil were able to secure 
an 8–2 win over the Vulcans. 
The Tritons’ singles results were 
reflective of the dominance they 
had over the Vulcans. Out of the 
12 singles sets played, the Tritons 
had seven bagels. The closest games 
were at the one and two spot (6–2, 
6–1 and 6–0, 6–4 respectively). 
Vs. Point Loma
The Tritons were unable to 
overcome the Sea Lions on Thursday, 
falling to Point Loma 6–3. The Sea 
Lions took two out of the three 
doubles games — 8–5 at the one and 8–3 at the three. The lone doubles 
team to win for the Tritons was the 
Chao-Chou duo, who claimed an 
8–3 victory at the two spot. 
Mosser defeated junior Nikki 
Newell (6–3, 7–6) at the one singles 
spot. The other singles victory for 
the Tritons was at the six spot, 
where Triton freshman Valeria 
Corral defeated Sea Lion freshman 
Ellie Gamble (4–6, 6–1, 6–4). 
The Tritons look to finish off the 
season strong and will travel north 
to face Azusa Pacific University on 
April 12 at 3 p.m.The UC San Diego softball team 
participated in the Tournament of 
Champions last week and finished 
with a 4–2 tournament record. The 
team played two games Sunday, one 
against Concordia University (8–4) 
and Simon Fraser University (5–4). 
UCSD results at the tournament 
pushed its overall record to 19–17. 
Riding the success of its 
tournament results, UCSD went on 
to face top-ranked Humboldt State 
University in a four-game series the 
following Friday and Saturday. On 
Friday, the Tritons took the first 
game (4–2) and lost the second 
(2–3). The next day, they fell to 
the Lumberjacks 4–6 in the first 
game and managed to squeeze out 
a victory in the second game (3–2). 
UCSD improved to a 21–19 
record and 12–16 California 
Collegiate Athletic Association record. 
The second game against 
Humboldt State was a nail-biter. 
Humboldt State scored a runs in 
the first and second innings, and 
UCSD managed to find a run in the 
second inning, bringing the game to 
2–1. Neither team managed to score 
a run until the fifth inning, when 
juniors left-fielder Kendall Baker 
and catcher Lauren Sanders scored 
runs to bring the game to 3–2. 
Humboldt State had a chance to 
win the game in the seventh inning, 
when it had all three bases loaded. 
However, the Tritons were able to 
close out the game to split the series 
2–2. 
UCSD faces off in a series against 
Chico State on Friday, April 15 and 
Saturday, April 16. The first game 
for Friday starts at 1 p.m., and the 
first for Saturday starts at 11 a.m. UCSD Splits Weekend Series 
Against No. 1 Humboldt StateTritons Dominate Hawaii-Hilo at Home, Fall 
Flat Against Point Loma on the Road
Despite a close final matchup, the Tritons held on 
to tie the series 2–2.UCSD won all nine matches against Hawaii-Hilo but went 3–6 against Point Loma.WOMEN'S  TENNIS SOFTBALL
BY  r i c h a r d  l u
Staff writerBY  r i c h a r d  l u
Staff writer
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduRichard Lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
Like us at 
UCSDGUARDIAN  
on Facebook
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 10, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UC San Diego honored 12 of its student-athletes this past 
Wednesday, April 5 in honor of National Student Athlete Day. The 
National Consortium for Academic and Sports established National 
Student Athlete Day in 1987. When recognizing UCSD student-
athletes, Director of Athletics Earl Edwards and Senior Associate 
Athletic Director Ken Grosse noted that UCSD athletes’ average GPA 
is often higher than the schoolwide average. The accomplishments of 
these students on and off the field/court/track/pool contribute to the 
high-caliber university that UCSD is. National Student 
Athlete Day
Jaimie Bryan  
Women’s Swimming & Diving  
College: Muir 
Major/Y ear: physiology and 
neuroscience, senior
GPA: 3.68
Accolades: Four-year NCAA 
Championship qualifier, 100 and 
200 breastroke All-AmericanCameron McElfresh 
Men’s Soccer
College: Revelle 
Major/Y ear: nanoengineering, senior
GPA: 3.56
Accolades: First team All-American 
goalkeeper, CCAA Defensive Player 
of the Y earMateusz Kucz 
Men’s Golf
College: Earl Warren 
Major/Y ear: economics, junior 
GPA: 3.71
Accolades: Two-time CCAA All-
Academic, helped UCSD earn 
Johnson Shootout tournament titleKendall Baker 
Softball
College: Thurgood Marshall 
Major/Y ear: human development, 
junior
GPA: 3.85
Accolades: Second team All-CCAA 
second baseman (sophomore year), Eric Tseng 
Men’s Tennis
College: Eleanor Roosevelt 
Major/Y ear: cognitive science, junior
GPA: 3.84
Accolades: Three-time Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association Scholar-Athlete, 
has always been either No. 1 or No. 2 
singles player
Haley Anderson 
Women’s Basketball
College: Marshall
Major/Y ear: human development, 
senior
GPA: 3.66
Accolades: Helped lead team to 2017 
CCAA regular season championship, 
three-time CCAA All-Academic Alec Flowers  
Men’s Volleyball
College: Marshall 
Major/Y ear: economics, senior
GPA: 3.61
Accolades: 2016 MPSF All-
Academic, Triton Athletics Council 
memberJustin Zhang  
Men’s Tennis
College: Muir 
Major/Y ear: human biology, junior
GPA: 3.90
Accolades: No. 3 singles player, 
CoSIDA Academic All-District 8 
First TeamKristin Semancsin  
Women’s Cross Country/Track & Field
College: Revelle 
Major/Y ear: chemical engineering, 
junior
GPA: 3.79
Accolades: UCSD’s second finisher 
at the 2017 CCAA Championships, 
CCAA and USTFCCA All-AcademicLauren Boyer  
Women’s Water Polo
College: Sixth
Major/Y ear: literature/writing, senior
GPA: 3.60
Accolades: 2016 Second Team All-
WWPA, 177 career goals
Malek Bashti  
Men’s Soccer
College: Muir
Major/Y ear: microbiology, junior
GPA: 3.77
Accolades: All-CCAA honorable 
mention, CCAA All-AcademicLauren Iannetta 
Women’s Rowing
College: Roosevelt 
Major/Y ear: history, senior
GPA: 3.43
Accolades: Second varsity eight boat 
gold medalist at the 2016 WIRA 
Championships, bronze medalist in 
2015
Back row, left to right: Haley Anderson, Cameron McElfresh, Malek Bashti, Earl Edwards, Alec Flowers, Mateusz Kucz, Eric Tseng
Front row, left to right: Lauren Iannetta, Kendall Baker, Lauren Boyer, Kristin Semancsin, Justin Zhang
Not pictured because she’s a true student-athlete and had to go to class: Jaimie BryanUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Volleyball
Baseball
Softball
Baseball
W. Tennis7 PM 
6 PM
1 PM 
6 PM 
11 AM4/12
4/13
4/14
4/14
4/15AT California Baptist
VS Cal Poly Pomona
AT Chico State
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Cal State LA
PHOTO COURTESY OF SCOTT FLANDERS/UCSD ATHLETICS