VOLUME 50, (SO MANY) ISSUE(S)   MONDA Y , APRIL 3, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWE FINALLY 
FOUND JOSE
“She’s been MIA for 3 months 
now. I know she likes Mathangi 
“Maya” Arulpragasam alot but 
like this is a little extra.”
-Everyone ever
FA K E  N E W S
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEwe  sit  on  a  throne  of  lies
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  P age  idk
section,  P age  ?
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“AND THEY WERE 
ROOMATES.”
“OH MY GOD THEY WERE 
ROOMATES.”
-VINE 
#RIP
MISS YOU VINE
INSIDE
JOURNALISM, WOW  ........ X
ALTERNATIVE FACTS  .......X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  ........ X
YOUR G-MA’S FAV GAME  .X
A SOCCER BALL! OMG  ....XSECTION,  P AGE 2
WEDNESDAY
It’ll rain for like 10 minutes and 
you 100% won’t be prepared. 
Then it’ll get really hot so you 
change into a short sleeve shirt 
when suddenly it drops to 30 
degrees and you’re freezing.
After 50 years of serving the 
UCSD students, the Guardian staff 
has unanimously decides that they 
can’t even anymore. 
“When I meet people and tell them 
I write for the UCSD newspaper they 
always start throwing stuff at me. 
Then I tell them ‘No the Guardian, 
not the Koala, ’ and they apologize, ” 
Sports Editor said.
The office has recently run 
out of food and motivation to 
care, prompting most of the staff 
to wonder “is it even worth it 
anymore?” The answer is no. Khosla 
Announces 
Expansion 
of  UCSD
An 
o p e n 
letter to our 
Supreme Leader here at UCSD 
from a student who is like legit done with this. Like 
I get it Khosla, you wanna do stuff for the school, 
trust me, I get it. But like stop. I swear if you make 
me walk around this campus anymore than I do 
now I’m gonna petition for UCSD to give every 
student a pair of roller blades upon acceptance. And 
no that doesn’t mean you can hike tuition to pay for 
those roller blades, I see you. 
Also like ty for creating less parking for students at UCSD because those 
weren’t necessary at all. We’ll just park at 
your masion from now on, cool? 
Quick question, why is this campus always 
under construction? It’s getting to the point that 
we should start selling UCSD hard hats at the 
bookstore. 
Sincerely, a student that needed to vent.
Long live the Leader.By  S t o p  T h i s  M e s s   NEWS EDITOR
CAMPUS
BY  I ’m  Done
SENIOR STAFF writerEveryone at the 
Guardian decides 
they are over it
Students wonder why to 
heck this campus needs 
to be bigger, I mean like 
seriously, I walk like 5 miles 
a day, wtf Khosla.
GooooneVOLUME 50, ISSUE 31   MONDA Y , APRIL 3, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
COMEDIAN 
Q&A
PETE HOLMES AND JUDD 
APATOW, CONFIDENT IN THEIR 
MASCULINITY AND HAIRLINES, 
PLAN TO VANQUISH THIS 
DARKNESS TO THE LAND OF 
WIND AND GHOSTS WITH THEIR 
NEW HBO SERIES, “CRASHING.” 
INDEPENDENT  MEDIA
SPRING  BREAK  RECAPSCONFLICT  OF  INTEREST
tennis,  softball,  w a ter  poloOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  15
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“ONE WAY THAT THE POSITION 
WOULD BE REDUNDANT, SINCE 
THE UNIVERSITY ALREADY 
FOCUSES ON THOSE AREAS 
OF SOCIAL JUSTICE IN EVERY 
DEPARTMENT AND PROGRAM. 
THE OTHER CONCERNED 
THE VERY HIGH PAY OF THE 
POSITION,”
- NANCY FREELANDER
OP-ED
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  ..4
FEATURES  ....................... 6
WEEKEND  ....................... 8
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
DISREGUARDIAN  ........... 16a&e,  P AGE  8
PHOTO COURTESY OF WINNI WINTERMEYER 
PHOTOGRAPHY
MONDAY
H 62 L 53TUESDAY
H 65 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 55THURSDAY 
H 69 L 54
Researchers at the La Jolla 
Institute for Allergy and Immunity 
have announced their success in 
reversing Type 2 diabetes in mice. 
The paper, published in Nature 
last week, was authored by UCSD 
School of Medicine professor 
Nunzio Bottini and Assistant 
Professor Stephanie Stanford. The 
results of the study suggests a new 
treatment for Type 2 diabetes in 
human patients.
Diabetes is characterized by a 
dangerous accumulation of sugar in 
the human bloodstream. Normally this sugar, an energy source for 
the human body, is absorbed from 
the bloodstream and into cells with 
the aid of the hormone insulin. 
In Type 2 diabetics, the insulin 
receptors which allow the cell to 
recognize the hormone and begin 
sugar absorption do not function 
properly.  Type 2 diabetes most 
commonly manifests itself in people 
who are obese.
Whereas previous treatments 
for diabetes rely on a mixture of 
insulin injections, drugs and careful 
oversight of sugar intake, this new 
compound was found to successfully 
restore the functionality of insulin 
receptors in diabetic mice without the unpleasant side effects -- such 
as water retention, weight loss and 
nausea -- which are common of 
other drugs. 
According to the research 
paper, the team accomplished this 
by first identifying an enzyme that 
suppresses the activity of the insulin 
receptors and then generating a 
compound that can deactivate this 
enzyme.
The team identified an enzyme 
termed “low-molecular-weight 
protein tyrosine phosphatase, ” or 
LMPTP , that plays a direct role in 
insulin resistance by repressing Alumnus Gifts 
$75 Million to 
Fundraising 
CampaignUCSD
UC San Diego Revelle College 
alumnus Taner Halicioglu donated 
$75 million toward the university’s $2 
billion “Campaign for UC San Diego. ” 
According to the campaign’s website, 
money is being raised for student 
experience, campus community and 
research and innovation. 
Halicioglu, a former software 
engineer for Facebook, co-founded 
SEED and Keshif Ventures, investing 
groups in San Diego. 
Halicioglu’s gift will lay foundation 
for the Halicioglu Institute for 
Data Science. Data science is an 
interdisciplinary approach to 
gaining insight from data. Halicioglu 
explained the importance of this field 
and institute to his Facebook friends 
and followers.
“Because Data Science is an 
extremely cross-disciplinary subject, 
it only seems fitting that something 
like an institute should exist in order 
to support it” Halicioglu wrote on his 
Facebook page. “While this Institute’s 
roots will be mainly with computer 
science, math and cognitive science, 
its reaches will span across the 
campus. ”
Halicioglu, who also teaches a 
seminar in the computer science and 
engineering department, donated 
an additional $2 million to the 
department in 2015 to combat the 
rapid growth of the department. Half 
was for establishing a new position in 
the department, an endowed teaching 
chair, and the other half was meant to 
reduce teaching time for lecturers 
so that they could spend more time 
mentoring students. 
Halicioglu’s gift marks the most 
any individual alumnus has given 
to the university. At the campaign 
kickoff, Chancellor Pradeep K. 
Khosla expressed the importance of 
Halicioglu’s donation. 
“This generous gift will transform 
our institution and forever change 
the way we educate the next 
generation of scholars, which is what 
the Campaign for UC San Diego 
is about, ” Chancellor Khosla said. 
“What we accomplish together in this 
campaign will lead to a future that is 
smarter, and brighter, than ever. ”
The campaign, which is trying 
to “continue the nontradition, ” has 
raised $1,216,466,310 of its $2 billion 
goal from over 88,295 unique donors. 
The campaign’s website explains that 
the nontradition is “an ongoing, 
collective effort to transform the 
student experience, our campus and 
ultimately humanity itself. ” 
This campaign started with a 
silent phase in July 2012. Halicioglu’s 
gift was announced at the university’s 
campaign kickoff event last month.SEDS Competes in Challenge to Send Satellite to 
the Moon
Students for the Exploration and 
Development of Space at UC San Diego 
are currently participating in NASA ’s Cube 
Quest challenge to send their satellite, Triteia, 
to the moon as part of the first mission of the 
Space Launch System rocket in late 2018. Should 
Triteia be one of the three miniature satellites 
selected by NASA for a secondary payload spot 
on Orion, the spacecraft atop the rocket, it 
would be the first satellite built by students to 
orbit the moon.
In order to reach the competition itself, 
SEDS UCSD must move through a series of 
four ground tournaments, which are checkpoint 
contests where teams are judged and can 
potentially receive funding. Each of the three 
already-completed ground tournaments have 
measured the concept, preliminary design and 
critical design respectively. According to the 
Triteia Project Manager Faris Hamdi, SEDS UCSD reached the top five in the second and 
third ground tournament, and the actual contest 
takes place when the satellites are operating in 
space.
Hamdi explained that SEDS UCSD decided 
to participate in NASA ’s challenge to advance 
the capabilities of miniaturized satellites, called 
CubeSats.
“We entered the Cube Quest competition to 
help push the boundaries of what is possible in 
space, ” Hamdi told the UCSD Guardian.“The 
space industry is known for being slow and far 
away from being agile. However, with the advent 
of [CubeSats] we are able to design, build, test 
and fly new hardware in space faster than before. 
Not only that, but CubeSats and small satellites 
have the potential to make space drastically 
cheaper because of their small size and quick 
development cycle. ” 
Hamdi further noted that if Triteia secures B y  Lauren Hol t  NEWS EDITORCAMPUS
UCSD School of Medicine Professor Nunzio BottiniSee SEDS , page 3
SCITECH
BY  J O S H  L E F L E R
SENIOR STAFF writer
BY  R O S I N A  G A R C I A
co-EDITOR in chief
Local Researchers Discover Compound That 
Reverses Type-II Diabetes Conditions in Mice
See DIABETES , page 3ROSINA GARCIA  RMG008@ucsd.eduThe donation marks 
the beginning of the 
administration’s fundraising 
campaign to acquire $2 billion.3 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingADS
You've got 'em,we want them.The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. It’s not funny.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walkera spot on the SLS rocket, it “will 
be pushing the limits of what can 
be done by a CubeSat by sending 
Triteia to the moon next year on 
the first mission of the NASA SLS 
rocket. Triteia will be the first 
CubeSat to venture out of low-Earth 
orbit and the first CubeSat to have a 
chemical propulsion system. ” 
With the first three ground 
tournaments completed, SEDS 
UCSD is now in the “integration 
stage” during which they are 
preparing for the fourth tournament, 
which will measure flight readiness, 
and their presentation to NASA on 
the satellite. The entries for Ground 
Tournament Four are due April 6. 
Hamdi says that the integration 
stage is where the organization 
members “purchase components, 
test and validate them and integrate 
them into Triteia. ”
A significant component of 
Triteia is the thruster, which the 
team 3-D printed. According to 
Hamdi, this lowers the cost of the 
satellite and expands SEDS UCSD’s 
manufacturing capabilities.“We chose to 3-D print the 
thruster because of the flexibility 
and reduction of cost that is offered 
by additive manufacturing (3-D 
printing),” Hamdi stated. “The 
ability to 3-D print allows you to 
manufacture components that 
otherwise could not have been 
made by traditional manufacturing 
techniques. Our satellite is the only 
satellite in the competition to be 
built by a completely undergrad 
team; it is also the most affordable 
satellite in th e competition. With 
our 3-D printed thruster, we will 
be able to reach the moon in less 
than six days, faster than any of our 
competitors. ”
To cover the costs of building the 
satellite and purchasing the various 
parts, UCSD SEDS has started an 
indiegogo.com campaign where 
individuals can donate various 
amounts to assist the team. The 
fundraising campaign will end on 
May 14.▶ SEDS,  from page 2 The Aerospace Group Is Currently Staging 
an Online Camplaign to Raise Funds for 
the Satellite’s Components.
LAUREN HOL T  LCHOLT@ucsd.eduinsulin receptors studded on the cell 
membrane. The researchers bred 
two strains of mice, one of which 
had the gene that encodes LMPTP 
deactivated, and placed both groups 
on a high fat diet in an attempt 
to induce obesity-related insulin 
resistance.
The team found that deactivation 
of LMPTP in liver cells had a 
significant improvement on 
insulin sensitivity and recorded 
significantly lower blood sugar 
levels in the genetically modified 
mice when compared to the normal 
mice.
With this connection made clear, 
the researchers began the search for 
a compound that could deactivate 
the LMPTP enzyme. 
Their work produced a 
compound that, when ingested 
by diabetic mice, restored insulin 
sensitivity and lowered their blood 
sugar without the unintended 
side effects associated with other 
treatments.
Additionally, the compound 
was found to exclusively work on 
LMPTP without affecting other protein tyrosine phosphatases, the 
family of enzymes which LMPTP 
belongs to. Bottini says that this is 
feat is exceptionally challenging to 
pull off.
“[TPT is] traditionally 
considered very difficult ... to 
drug, because it’s very hard to get a 
compound which is selective for one 
of those enzymes vs. others, ” Bottini 
told the San Diego Union-Tribune.
Bottini also told the San Diego 
Union-Tribune that he and his team 
hope to turn their results into a 
drug for human clinical trials and 
are reaching out to pharmaceutical 
companies for partnership.
According to the American 
Diabetes Association, 9.3 percent 
of the American population had 
diabetes in 2012, a majority of 
which suffer from Type 2. Around 
85 percent of those suffering from 
Type 2 diabetes is overweight. It is 
the seventh leading cause of death 
in the United States as of 2010.▶ DIABETES,  from page 2 Bottini: We Hope to Adapt This Drug 
for Human Clinical Trials.
JOSH LEFLER JLEFLER@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  4
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
With the launch of “Senate 
Digest, ” a weekly video which will 
be produced by Triton Television, 
A.S. Council takes a step toward 
promoting full transparency in the 
affairs of student government. In 
scheduled programming, a rotation 
of two senators will “report” on the 
weekly happenings of the council. 
A conflict of interest making the 
partnership concerning, however, 
rests in the fact that “Senate 
Digest” is a program that receives 
funding from the very body of 
government it’s meant to report on.
We as an Editorial Board laud 
any initiative that would inform 
the student body of the council 
chambers’ happenings. Students, 
who vote for the leaders of that 
council, have a right to know 
what is done for them. The video 
campaign looks to accomplish 
this by informing the students 
of events or projects led by their 
student representatives, and of new 
appointments within the council. 
The tone is light and joyful, and the 
process of humanizing the decisions 
made in council helps make 
them seem more accessible. The senators are open to questions 
and comments, and their personal 
information is linked to the video.
The issue arises with how the 
video is set up. Triton Television, 
who receives more than $35,000 
every year from A.S. Council, has given them a platform in the media 
to say whatever they want. This 
is not to claim that the senators 
will recite lies and and conceal 
incriminating information. There 
is, however, a structural concern 
with the potential for doing exactly that. When they can go on air 
and report, unchecked, on what 
they themselves are doing, there 
is ambiguity surrounding who 
in this process would prevent 
A.S. Council from using this 
program purely for their own 
advantage. 
Media and government 
should be independent, and 
Senate Digest’s crossing of that 
line brings fear of being misled 
by our Student Government 
to a forefront. Although the 
UCSD Guardian Editorial Board 
supports the nature of this 
initiative in the hope that A.S. 
Council will continue to strive 
for transparency, we cannot stand 
behind a campaign that mixes 
university-funded media and 
student government. Simply put, 
a project dedicated to promoting 
transparency cannot accomplish 
its goal when the information 
being reported concerns the very 
body funding its distribution.
Independence of  Student Government and 
University-Funded Media Necessary For 
Trustworthy Campus News Program
BY GUARDIAN EDITORIAL BOARDLetter  to 
the editor
“There’ s more to the story of 
Nixon,” confided Alexander P. 
Butterfield, the aide who disclosed 
the president’s greatest secret — 
the taping system that provided the 
evidence of his Watergate crimes 
and ended the Nixon presidency. 
For three years as Deputy Assistant 
to the President, working and 
watching from an office adjoining 
the Oval Office, Butterfield was 
often the first to see Nixon in 
the morning and the last at night, 
the ultimate insider and the most 
dangerous witness. Butterfield 
supervised the installation of 
the taping system and was one 
of a handful who knew about it. 
Even Nixon’s top aides, Henry 
Kissinger and John Ehrlichman, 
were not aware of it. In his memoir 
“RN,” the president wrote that he 
believed the secret “would never 
be revealed.” 
Butterfield’s insights reveal 
Nixon’s secrets, rages, obsessions 
and deceptions; and his vindictive 
preoccupation with disinformation 
and suppression of the press, 
especially The New York Times 
and The Washington Post. Sound 
familiar? Pulitzer Prize winner 
and Washington Post investigative 
journalist Bob Woodward 
describes the intense drama of 
Butterfield’s struggle and why and 
how he changed history.
Alexander P. Butterfield 
attended UCLA, the University 
of Maryland, George Washington 
University, the National War 
College and the National Defense 
University. During his Air Force 
career, Col. Butterfield flew 
98 combat and reconnaissance 
missions during the Vietnam War 
and was awarded the Distinguished 
Flying Cross. He later served as a 
military assistant to the Secretary 
and Deputy Secretary of Defense 
and was senior U.S. military 
officer in Australia. After leaving 
the White House, he served as 
Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration.
“It was the biggest bombshell 
of the biggest political scandal 
in American history: White 
House aide Alexander Butterfield 
revealing the existence of the 
White House taping system.”  CBS 
News.
— Dennis Wills,
D.G.WILLS BOOKS
7461 Girard Ave., La Jolla
(858)456-1800
www.dgwillsbooks.comUC San Diego has had a 
strongly beneficial effect 
on La Jolla’s inclusiveness 
and diversity. For example, when 
UCSD’s location was chosen, La 
Jolla had realty practices banning 
Jews, African-Americans, foreign 
nationals, and other ethnic 
minorities from purchasing houses 
and real property within the 
community. Through the efforts 
of Roger Revelle and others, 
such discriminatory practices 
were overturned. Ideally, UCSD’s 
admirable history of increasing 
diversity and inclusion in La Jolla 
will continue.
With this history in mind, 
I thought the Office of Equity, 
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) would 
be the appropriate starting place to 
introduce a proposition by which 
UCSD could benefit the community 
in such areas. For one month, 
beginning Jan. 23, I tried to set up 
a meeting with Vice Chancellor-
EDI Becky Petitt. Despite repeated 
phone calls, my requests were 
ignored or denied. 
After weeks of fruitless phone 
calls, the VC’s executive assistant 
asked me to submit a one-page 
proposal for the VC to consider. I 
submitted the requested proposal 
on Feb. 13, along with five 
supplementary documents. 
My proposal involved the most 
visible and publicized practice 
still echoing La Jolla’s history of 
anti-Semitism, bigotry, hatred, and 
racism: The La Jolla Christmas Parade (since 2005, “and Holiday 
Festival”). Its Christian-exclusive 
name has elicited years of criticism, 
including four editorials in the La 
Jolla Light. The majority of La Jolla 
residents favor a name change, 
and the La Jolla Village Merchants 
Association voted to ask that the 
name be changed from faith-based 
to faith-neutral. Furthermore, La 
Jolla is the only remaining San Diego 
community with a faith-based name 
for its annual holiday parade.
In my one-page document, two simultaneous approaches 
were proposed to the VC-EDI. 
One involved using UCSD’s direct 
influence to change the word 
“Christmas” to a faith-neutral word. 
The second involved increasing 
awareness of religious diversity by 
having students of different faiths 
participate in the parade, featuring 
the beauty and value of humanity’s 
wide variety of belief systems and 
cultural practices.
 I worked in faculty and staff 
positions with UCSD students for more than 20 years. Based 
on my experience, I believe that 
our students, with their strong 
sense of justice, fairness, and 
tolerance, and their motivation to 
correct wrongs, could contribute 
greatly toward correcting local 
intolerance and exclusion. Student 
involvement could include A.S. 
Council, the six colleges’ student 
councils, International House and 
other organizations. Faculty and 
additional student representation 
could come from such departments 
and programs as ethnic studies, 
Judaic studies, Chinese studies, 
Japanese studies and the study of 
religion. 
Again, I was not asking the VC 
for a commitment or promise — 
only for a short meeting. On Feb. 22, 
I received a voicemail from the VC’s 
Assistant telling me that the VC 
would not meet with me. After some 
thought, I left messages saying that 
I would drop by the Chancellor’s 
Complex and talk to whomever I 
could.
On Feb. 23, I received a brief 
email from VC Petitt herself 
saying she would not meet with 
me. Her note made no mention of 
the specific issues involved or the 
documents I had submitted. When 
all was said and done, I never got to 
speak with the VC herself, despite 
my month of efforts.
 The VC-EDI’s responsibilities 
explicitly include the following: In Order to Fulfill Guiding Principles, 
Office of Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Needs Greater Accessibility
That Senate Digest looks to keep students informed on 
the affairs of A.S. Council is a laudable mission. Its 
production by university-funded Triton Television, however, 
brings forth the need for a system of checks in order to ensure 
separation between student government and media.ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
The inaccessibility I 
experienced has raised 
serious concerns for me. 
I am not sure that the 
university’s budget, and 
therefore the students’ 
money, is being wisely 
spent in that area.OP-EDAlexander P. Butterfield will 
discuss Bob Woodward’s 
new book, The Last of the 
President’s Men on Sunday, 
April 9, 2 p.m.
Got letter S?
      email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
. . .
we publi Sh them .NANCY FREELANDER
 SAN DIEGO COUNTY DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSIVENESS GROUP
SDCDIG.ORG
See ACCESSIBILITY , page 5"
"  opinion@ucsdguardian.org5 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
YOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.edu
“She will . . . help lead the 
institution effectively in productive 
collaborative partnerships 
throughout the campus and with 
external constituents (italics 
mine) to catalyze change in this 
area. ” Clearly, her responsibilities 
include encouragement of potential 
partnerships between UCSD and 
its local community to improve 
issues related to equity, diversity 
and inclusion. 
There was concern when UCSD first created the office of the 
VC-EDI, especially in two areas. 
One was that the position would 
be redundant, since the University 
already focuses on those areas of 
social justice in every department 
and program. The other concerned 
the very high pay of the position 
— $250,000 salary, not counting 
other benefits, when first created 
— and its potential to worsen the 
University’s economic situation, 
possibly leading to higher student 
costs and fees.
During the month I spent trying to meet with the VC-EDI to discuss 
a real-life problem involving equity, 
diversity and inclusion, I saw no 
evidence at all that the Office of EDI 
has any interest in furthering those 
goals on campus and in its home 
community. The inaccessibility 
I experienced has raised serious 
concerns for me. I am not sure 
that the university’s budget — and 
therefore the students’ money — is 
being wisely spent in that area.▶ ACCESSIBILITY  from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianNANC Y FREELANDER   nfriedlander 2@gmail .comFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  6
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Of the many philosophies that define Making of the 
Modern World professor Edmond Chang’s worldview, 
perhaps the most prominent is Buddhism. This is 
clear to any visitor to his office, which is replete with Buddhist 
memorabilia. Born to a Chinese family that fled to Taiwan 
after the Chinese Communist Revolution on the mainland, 
Chang was introduced to Buddhism as a family religion. 
Though his father introduced him more to his academic 
interest, he explained to the UCSD Guardian that his mother 
introduced him to the basic practices of Buddhism at home.
“My mother, based on her own upbringing, her own 
childhood, was kind of more of a Buddhist and she would 
sometimes recite the sutras and burn some incense, ” Chang 
told the Guardian.
As Chang grew older, he became increasingly interested 
in Buddhism as a philosophy, particularly in the practice 
of mindfulness. The MMW program, which he began to 
teach in 2006, proved to be the perfect outlet for sharing his 
passion for Buddhism with students. In MMW , he found an 
opportunity to share with his class the history of the religion 
— the Buddha’s search for enlightenment under a Bodhi tree, 
his many sermons and his attainment of Nirvana at the end of 
his life. However, he began to look for ways to do more than 
just lecture about this religion — he wanted to let his students 
experience it firsthand. In 2010, he found an opportunity to 
do just that at the nearby Deer Park Monastery.
Deer Park Monastery sits in the arid mountains above 
Escondido, about an hour north of UCSD and the clamor 
of urban San Diego. In this serene setting sanghas, dressed 
in humble brown robes, carry out a life of simplicity and 
contemplation. Founded by the influential Vietnamese monk 
Thich Nhat Hanh in 2000, the monastery practices Zen, a 
school of Buddhism that centered on meditation, the practice 
of mindfulness and the cultivation of inner peace. The idea 
of a one-day retreat to a zen monastery piqued the interest of 
many of Chang’s students, and he soon had a group ready to 
join him on his adventure.
One Sunday in Spring 2010, Chang and 25 students 
embarked on the first Eleanor Roosevelt College retreat to 
Deer Park Monastery. The full-day retreat served as a break 
from modern technology and the sense of urgency that often 
hangs over college students. Instead of checking their phones, 
for instance, the students practiced a “noble silence” every 
half hour at the toll of a “mindfulness bell. ”
“So when that bell rings you stop talking, if you were 
talking, ” explained Chang. “ And you kind of come back to 
your own breath. It’s a really calming experience, so for about 
a minute you remind yourself not to get caught up in the rush 
of things. ”
Savoring each bite before moving onto the next, the group 
ate a vegetarian meal in the monastery’s communal dining 
hall. The meal was eaten in absolute silence,  This, too, was 
practiced in silence, giving them space to reflect on each bite. 
To supplement their education, they listened to a Dharma talk 
about Thich Nhat Hanh’s philosophy given by one of Deer 
Park’s monks. Chang remarked that, even after returning to 
their ordinary lives, the students carried what they learned 
with them, having formed a “monastery in their hearts and 
minds. ”
“Overall, it was a very positive experience that kind of 
conveyed to the students that the practice of religion is not 
necessarily about worshipping and putting everything aside and just praying and meditating, but [what we practice] in 
our daily lives that is actually the most important part of 
religious practice, ” reflected Chang. “ As you eat, as you work, 
as you walk — all of that is actually a way to pursue the 
practice of meditation. I think the students really were able to 
walk away with that very important sensibility. ”
The retreat to Deer Park Monastery, offered to ERC 
students in Spring Quarter, has become a yearly tradition. 
With the exception of one year, Chang has led a band of his 
most eager students to the mountain retreat annually for the 
past seven years. Expanding on the experience of the first 
year, a few of those retreats lasted an entire weekend, with 
students sleeping under the stars and in rustic cabins before 
waking for a day of meditation and “mindfulness walks” 
through the hills that surround the monastery.
At typical day for students on a full-weekend retreat at 
Deer Park begins at the crack of dawn, 5:00 in the morning. 
As the sun breaks over the mountain retreat the campers and 
cabin-dwellers awake to the clamor of bells. Weary with sleep, 
they ascend the hill to the monastery’s dining hall, where 
they eat a simple but nourishing breakfast of oatmeal and hot 
green tea – a meal fit for a monk. After contemplating over 
their meal bite-by-bite, the guests make their way to a prayer 
room in the middle of the monastery. Here they sit almost 
absolutely still for an hour, squatting on a beanbag stool. For 
college students accustomed to being active every minute of 
the day sitting still for this long can be quite the challenge, 
but the breathtaking view of the rising sun proves to be some 
compensation. With the morning’s sitting meditation out of 
the way, students take in Escondido’s mountain landscape 
through walking meditation – a slow, calm hike through 
the trails surrounding the monastery. Following lunch and 
a mindful rest, the students partake in a dharma discussion 
with the resident monks and with each other, learning about 
mindfulness and how they have learned to practice it in their 
own lives. After a light dinner, the visitors who are ending 
their stay leave, while those who are staying for another night 
enjoy a few hours of personal study and noble silence before 
turning in for another night, awaiting another day of learning 
and contemplation.
Despite the religious nature of the monastery, Chang 
stresses that he does not attempt to push Buddhism on his 
students – his role at UCSD is as an educator rather than a 
spiritual leader. What he stresses instead is the practice of 
mindfulness, a philosophy that, despite being developed by 
by Zen buddhists, is practiced by religious and secular people 
alike. He expounds upon the personal growth he has seen in 
students just from one weekend at the monastery.
“I don’t know about the lifelong impact, but they certainly 
all came back with a real determination and a sense of 
confidence in how they can reduce their stress as college 
students, how to incorporate more contemplation and more 
meditation in their daily lifestyle,“ recalled Chang. “So the 
monastery you can think of as a physical space, but you can 
also think of the monastery that exists in your hear and in 
your mind, and in many ways I think they took the monaster 
– the symbolic meaning of the monastery – back to their lives 
on campus.“
Though MMW may be just another GE to many ERC 
students, to those who take a trip to Deer Park monastery it 
can be an experience that truly alters their worldview.Last quarter, we 
explored MMW 
professor Edmond 
Chang’s life story, 
the experiences that 
led him to UC San 
Diego. This week we 
explore one facet 
of his worldview 
that has marked 
his experience 
as a professor 
at UCSD — his 
understanding of 
Buddhism and how 
he brings it to life 
for his students.The Professor and 
the Monastery:  
Edmond 
Chang
by Oliver Kelton // Features Editor Photo courtesy of Professor Edmond Chang7 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 4/17/17
A.S. Safe Rides
Free Uber ride up to $10 for all UCSD students
You don’t have to be a first time 
Uber user to get the free credit.
Link your UCSD email to your Uber 
account, and enter in this quarter’s 
promo code!
ASUCSD x Uber
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeEnjoy your free ride (up to $10) between 8pm- 3am,
Wednesday through Sunday. Two weeks ago, I realized I had been waking up 
wrong my entire life. 
Walking into Patrick Velasquez’s brightly lit 
office on a warm Tuesday, I didn’t exactly expect 
to realize this about myself. Yet when I sat down 
— amidst black-framed band posters that hung 
displayed against sun-splattered walls — and talked 
to Velasquez, my eyes were opened.  
For most people, myself included, waking up 
means a fight against the alarm on the phone that 
sits idly atop our desks. It means lifting eyelids 
burdened with late night paper-writing and furious 
test-cramming to struggle through another day. 
For Velasquez, this is not the case. For him, 
the work that lies ahead keeps him waking up 
every morning and working throughout the day. 
Velasquez awakes every morning because he has 
a purpose, one that is stronger than any alarm 
setting. He wakes up every morning to fight. 
Velasquez came from a small Chicano community 
in Nebraska. Both his grandparents and parents 
were meat-packers in the 1950s — a typical job for 
Mexican immigrants at the time. Neither of them 
had gone to college. In fact, barely anyone from the 
Chicano community had. At the time, the Chicano 
community as a whole was scarred by poverty 
and unemployment, filled with low-wage earners 
and not enough educated leaders. This sad state 
of affairs inspired Velasquez to pursue a career in 
education and counseling. 
“I thought education was really allowing people 
to make the kinds of decisions that I struggled 
with, and to do whatever they wanted in their 
lives, ” remarked Velasquez. “But also, I thought 
that through education, you could become a leader. 
And what I noticed in our Chicano community was 
that we didn’t have any lawyers, we didn’t have any 
doctors … and we had a lot of problems … I felt 
like we needed well-educated leadership to change 
that. ”
After receiving a bachelor’s degree in social 
work and a master’s degree in education, Velasquez 
found himself drawn to the Office of Academic 
Support and Instructional Services at UC San 
Diego, a program that offers tutoring and 
mentorship to UCSD students. In 1989, he was 
hired as a coordinator for OASIS’ Summer Bridge 
Program, a program that gives incoming freshmen 
five weeks in the summer before college to live on 
campus and adjust to college life. After receiving 
his doctorate in higher education policy and 
student development from Claremont University 
in 1995, he was promoted to director of OASIS the 
following year. Serving over 3,000 students per year, OASIS has 
been the campus’ learning center for underprivileged 
students — students just like Velasquez once was. 
For the underrepresented, those who feel they don’t 
belong or the minority group students, OASIS 
has been the “knight in shining armor” for social 
justice that sits atop Center Hall, overlooking 
Library Walk. Not only does the program seek to 
help students academically, but it also tries to give 
them a home away from home. 
For 21 years, Velasquez served as the head of 
OASIS. However, the end of Winter Quarter this 
year marked the end of his career. With his office 
packed away in cardboard boxes, Velasquez said 
goodbye on the Friday of Week 10. In a sense, 
though, he didn’t leave satisfied. 
For both Velasquez and OASIS, the fight against 
UCSD’s administration and institution has been 
seemingly never-ending. With a figurative sword 
in hand, Velasquez has continually been pushing 
for more diversity reflected in UCSD’s faculty, the 
increase of student representation in major school 
decisions and recently even hinting at the idea of 
naming Sixth College after a Chicano person. As a 
whole, though, success hasn’t come easy, and each 
step forward has included a fight. 
“We haven’t made a lot of progress, ” he admitted. 
“There are people on the campus who tell me that 
the faculty was more diverse in the 1970s than it is 
now … Within recent years, what I have seen in the 
administration we have now is more of a tendency 
to try to silence people that work here when they 
criticize UCSD. ”
As a part of the Chicano/Latino Concilio at 
UCSD, which was formed in 1991, Velasquez has 
helped produce many documents, institutional 
report cards and recommendations on the way 
the campus could be improved and made more 
equitable. The process hasn’t been unopposed.
“What I have seen in the last three or four years is 
people like me who are given negative performance 
evaluations and are threatened with termination if 
we don’t stop criticizing the university … That’s the 
way the administration seems to be operating now. 
So I don’t really see the commitment to diversity 
and equity, ” he said.
This hasn’t been helped by the fact that Velasquez 
is now retiring. With his retirement has come 
concerns from many students and even Velasquez 
himself about the future of OASIS. The biggest 
concern is whether OASIS will maintain its current 
mission to emphasize social justice, diversity and 
the representation of people of color. Yet, fears 
have only worsened with the personality of the current administration. With a furrowed brow, 
Velasquez expressed his concern that he would be 
replaced with someone who would “water down” 
the mission that OASIS has upheld for so many 
students at UCSD. For him and for many others, 
this sense of inclusiveness that OASIS promotes 
must be carried on. 
“I wish that more people understood the 
complexities that our students face if they come 
from the backgrounds of a lot of OASIS students, ” 
he said earnestly.
Because many OASIS students come from 
underrepresented ethnic backgrounds and are first 
generation college students, their parents are often 
unable to help them with schoolwork or in making 
important decisions like choosing a major. Adding 
to this are struggles with finances and funding 
their college education.
“I think there are some folks on campus who 
understand [these challenges], but I don’t think 
that is really at the highest levels of administration 
or amongst our faculty … You can’t change the 
students, it’s not right to expect the students to 
change. They shouldn’t always be the ones to 
adapt to a predominantly white institution. The 
institution needs to change, ” he said. 
Still, Velasquez can be sure that he has made 
a lasting impact on this campus. In the 1990s, 
Velasquez, along with the UCSD Chicano/Latino 
Concilio, was able to successfully push for the 
Chicano Legacy Mural that now graces the side 
of Peterson Hall. He also helped push for the 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion requirement that is 
now demanded of all students, and resource centers 
such as the Black Resource Center. Although such 
accomplishments have not become the catalyst 
for change that Velasquez and several others had 
hoped they would have become, there is still the 
hope that “continuing the good fight” will one day 
make UCSD a more inclusive place. 
“One thing’s for sure – the roadmap of how to 
get there is out there. If they read the scholarship 
on how to create a diverse, equitable institution the 
answers are there. And we know how to get there. 
It’s just you have to have the will and the capacity. ” 
Velasquez has now stepped down from his 
position, said goodbye to the students and the 
community that he has created homes for and 
parted from his little office on the third floor. But 
as long as he continues waking up, Velasquez will 
continue fighting. “Y ou can ’t change the students, it’ s not right to expect 
the students to change. They shouldn ’t always be the 
ones to adapt to a predominantly white institution. The 
institution needs to change. ” – Patrick VelasquezSocial Injustice: The Hidden Battle
By Madeline Park / / Contributing WriterComedy legends Judd Apatow and Pete Holmes 
were kind enough to grace the UCSD Guardian 
with their digital presence and meaty answers. 
Read ahead to learn how these artists — nay, 
modern philosophers — waxed poetic about their 
new HBO series.
GUARDIAN:  Many say that TV is in a golden age, with people 
like Martin Scorsese and Paolo Sorrentino staking their claim 
in recent years. Judd, you’ve been operating in this sphere since 
the early ’90s and film hasn’t kept you from returning decade 
after decade. Why do you keep coming back?
JUDD AP A TOW: There’s a lot of freedom on television that you 
don’t get in film. Y ou get to tell weirder stories that can be more 
complicated, and you don’t have to clean everything up to make 
everyone happy, allowing you to explore characters much deeper 
than those in a 90-minute movie. And, you’re treated well — at 
least by HBO. It’s not like on network TV where they cancel you 
and break your heart.
GUARDIAN:  Pete, you call the show a love story to suffering. 
Can either of you pinpoint a specific moment in your comedic 
career where you believe you felt true suffering and that you 
later realized was integral to getting you where you are today?
PETE  HOLMES:  Y eah, unfortunately. Or fortunately? I can think of 
dozens of times. I remember filming a pilot with Kumail Nanjiani 
— he will be in a very funny upcoming Apatow movie called 
“The Big Sick” — that was so bad, I smoked a cigarette after the 
show because I wanted part of me to die. I guess another answer 
would be my divorce, although that did make me funnier. I just 
wound up spending more time with comedians just getting better 
and having much more of a perspective.
GUARDIAN: Artie Lange and TJ Miller are the first glimpses 
of comedic success on the show. How did you decide which 
comedians you wanted to feature on “Crashing”?
PH:  The fun thing about TJ Miller is that he actually reached out 
to me after my wife left, and he invited me to Pittsburgh. We 
smoked pot and went to the Andy W arhol Museum, called 
up a lot of room service and that was one of the things that 
inspired the show. When one of us [comedians] is hurt, 
we’re kind of like dolphins — we won’t leave them alone. 
Judd had a great idea to cast Artie Lange as the show’s 
comedian Ghost of Christmas Past, warning Pete 
about all the follies that lie ahead in his comedy 
adventure. We tried to find people who we 
found funny and that we could juxtapose with 
my character’s naivete.
GUARDIAN: How do you decide how much of 
your real-life experiences to put in the show 
versus situations that may be too personal or 
need to be exaggerated for comedic effect?
PH:  I think that is one of the things I learned from 
Judd. In a real divorce, there are a lot of moments 
where you have the blinds drawn, eating ice cream 
and quietly sobbing while watching “Sex and the 
City” because every little thing just makes you 
sad. I can even remember how every woman I saw 
after that experience would remind me how I was 
divorced. Even if it was just a waitress at a restaurant, 
I would cry out, “Really, universe! A waitress?” So, 
those are the kind of things we had to take out, 
simply because they were just too uneventful.
That’s also where Judd comes in, because he is 
very good at taking something that is emotionally 
true and externalizing it. For example, in the third 
episode there is a yard sale which didn’t happen in 
real life, but the idea of having all your possessions 
laid out and sifted through by your neighbors is a 
good representation of what going through a divorce 
feels like. It’s about losing your privacy, being a little 
humiliated and getting three dollars for a framed interview  b y  Sam Velazquez   Q    &          A    CONVERSING WITH  
COMEDIANS
A&E Editor
photo of your wedding. So, that helps convey the story better and 
that’s what Judd would do. I would tell him something sad, like the 
waitress story, and he’ d point to how that feels like this other thing 
that would work better in a comedy as opposed to a sad indie movie.
GUARDIAN:  What do you think helps set the show apart from 
other series about comedians in New Y ork such as “Louie” or 
“Master of None”?
JA:  I think we are in the same world as a lot of those shows, but 
it’s really about Pete and his own perspective. Certainly, we’re 
influenced by shows like “Louie, ” but even that show didn’t have 
a whole lot of episodes about being a comedian. There was that 
great two-parter in the last season with him on the road but there 
were only really a handful of episodes that showed that world in 
great detail. So, we felt that nobody had really truthfully shown the 
comedy world, certainly the open-mike night, early period of one’s 
career. But we’re proud to be mentioned in the same conversation 
as all those great shows.GUARDIAN: Pete, how did your move from Christianity to 
agnosticism interact with your comedy career from early on?
PH : I think the biggest shift for me was no longer thinking that God 
was mad at me for feeling how I feel, letting me now appreciate 
the mystery in everything, dirty or weird. That freed me up to 
talk about whatever I was going through, not just what a “good 
boy” would talk about on stage — stuff like boners. Even as we sit 
here talking over the internet, I try to envelop myself in some of 
the mystery and that’s the main way I interact with the divine or 
God. I think a lot of people surrender their basic wonder and start 
taking this reality as a given. That’s where the energy, the vitality 
is. It shouldn’t be something you’re doing to assimilate with your 
culture, but which you’re trying to feel true joy and bliss with. 
Everybody can appreciate the question of what we’re doing here. 
Whereas before, God used to be a lifeguard who was watching 
me and tweeted his whistle at me every time I looked at internet 
pornography. I just want to sneak in an appreciation for life in my 
comedy alongside the boner jokes.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
PHOTO COURTESY OF WINNI WINTERMEYER PHOTOGRAPHY9     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
MERCHANDIS E PRESALE
*cho ose Sun God Presale shipp ing o ption
sgf.ucsd.edu
Fantasies of a typical wedding 
reception bring to mind neatly 
lined tables, a jolly open bar, a 
hopefully competent MC and plenty 
of live music to keep one rocking 
throughout the night. It is a time 
where fond memories are supposed 
to be formed, an escape from the 
unpleasantries of life. Suppose that 
one takes the guests whom the 
bride and groom know least and 
places them at the same table. Does 
this result in compelling drama 
and guffaw-inducing shenanigans? 
Not so. “Table 19” tries to be witty 
and endearing but is ultimately a 
subpar attempt at a dramedy. There 
are a few clever zingers and mildly 
entertaining spectacles that make 
it watchable, but it does not make 
up for the static cast and the film’s 
bungled themes.
There’s very little to discern from 
the hobbled fellows of the titular 
table. The audience knows just as much about them as the bride and 
groom. What the audience does 
learn about the protagonists is 
that they have no personal depth 
or nuance. At most, they want to 
fulfill a personal ambition that this 
wedding provides the opportunity 
for. Renzo Eckberg (Tony Revolori) 
is a socially inept adolescent seeking 
his first hookup. His desires receive 
no explanation, and this aspect of 
his character is hardly utilized. Of 
the six women he interacts with 
at the wedding, he only flirts with 
(and fails to impress) two. He 
accomplishes nothing else of note in 
the film, outside of looking quaint 
as he follows his odd tablemates. 
Then there’s Jerry and Bina Kepp 
(Craig Robinson and Lisa Kudrow), 
whose marriage is a combination of 
half-vitriolic, half-jestful bickering. 
There’s also a former nanny and 
an ex-convict at the table, who are 
just as unexceptional as their fellow guests.
The exception to this lack of 
characterization is Eloise McGarry 
(Anna Kendrick), the former maid-
of-honor who fell out with the 
brother of the bride (Wyatt Russell). 
Attending the wedding alone was 
an emotionally wrenching decision 
for her. She could potentially (and 
inappropriately) humiliate her ex, 
his new girlfriend and herself in 
front the newlyweds, a possibility 
that she struggles to prevent herself 
from initiating. Impulsiveness 
naturally leads to bad decisions, so 
McGarry ropes the other guests into 
helping her cope (as well as deal 
a bit of vengeance to her ex). The 
ensuing commotion is supposed 
to be sympathetic, with a touch 
of light-hearted revelry. Y et the 
unimpressive cast and directionless 
plot earn no applause. The rascals 
of Table 19 move from awkwardly 
asking a young girl to dance to confronting McGarry’s estranged ex 
to comprehending both perspectives 
of the Kepps’ strained marriage. 
The multiple unfolding stories 
are underdeveloped, and what the 
audience is presented with is little 
more than a snapshot of the crew’s 
world. 
Thankfully, “Table 19” somehow 
finds a way to amuse. For all of 
its mishmashed subplots and 
uninteresting dialogue, the film 
cracks several clever gags at which 
one can’t help but smile. The father 
of the groom closes his toast without 
foresight, wishing the newlyweds 
a happy ending comparable to 
that of Romeo and Juliet. A tense 
argument between McGarry and 
her ex ends with a mood-swinging 
crash as the wedding cake is 
trampled upon by the members of 
Table 19, the incriminating cream 
and cake staining their dresses. The 
tumultuous day causes guest Jo (June Squibb) to casually mention 
some recreational hallucinogens 
she brought along; the older 
members of the table gladly join 
her in consuming it. It’s difficult 
to find anything else memorable 
about “Table 19” besides its comedy. 
Whatever witticism it has, however, 
it executes admirably.
Still, “Table 19” is, on the whole, 
a dissatisfactory presentation. A 
premise along the lines of “The 
Breakfast Club” at a wedding 
reception has capacity to be both 
heartwarming and hilarious. 
The film is more of the latter, a 
shortcoming that leaves much to be 
desired. A comedy about a funeral 
is far more engaging.
 
—  Da vid de Leon
Staff WriterSomething sweet, something bland and something far more likely to be panned —    “Table 19” is all of these, and less.Ta b l e  1 9
PHOTO COURTESY OF FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES
Director   Jeffrey Blitz
Starring Anna Kendrick, Craig Robinson, June Squibb
Release Date   Mar. 3, 2017
Rated   PG-13 C+FILM  REVIEWA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  10
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
SPRING 2017
M: 10am-1pm
Tu/Th:  12:30 pm-2pm
W: 10am-1pm
F: 12pm -3pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTE RHOURS
/tritonfood pantry
American Teen
by  Khalid
Release Date Mar. 3
 “ American Teen” is an ode to the teenage lifestyle and the 
mark of Khalid’s prospective career in R&BALBUM  REVIEW
Khalid who? He may only have a 
slim Wikipedia page, but Khalid is 
hungry for the spotlight and ready 
to enter the professional music industry. He’s 
a high school senior from El Paso, Texas, 
yet he’s already gotten recognition for his 
deep vocals and sultry persona. Reaching 
a breakthrough point of advancing from 
SoundCloud to Spotify, “ American Teen” is 
instrumentally versatile and captures Khalid’s 
pre-collegiate boyishness and relaxed attitude.
Khalid imitates John Legend’s croons 
and pianism on “Coaster. ” Do you prefer 
contemporary dance beats? “Winter” has you 
covered with its juvenile spiritualism and 
scattered finger snaps. The journey through 
his carefree life starts with the album opener 
“A m e r i c a n  Te e n .”  “A m e r i c a n  Te e n”  c a p t u r e s  
the essence of living large in America  — a 
celebration of the teenage lifestyle. “My youth 
is the foundation of me, / Oh I’m proud to 
be American, ” he sings, a line that will set 
the foundation for the yearbook of teenage 
havoc about to play out. Khalid is barely 
reaching the spotlight, but he already makes 
an intriguing first impression. His hit single 
“Location” was a great introduction to this 
soulful innovator, a track about his search 
for intense love. “Saved, ” one of the album’s 
highlights, has some Usher influences with 
the assorted R&B tempo reminiscent to 
“Confessions. ” You can hear the desire in 
Khalid’s own confessions: “I’m hoping that 
you’ll say / You’re missing me the way I’m 
missing you. ”Khalid has described his sound as always 
changing and growing with himself. When 
you listen to all of the album’s 15 tracks, they 
not only have their own distinct rhythms 
and influences, but they instrumentally 
accentuate each other and the album’s theme 
of youthful lifestyles. The minimalist style of 
“Location” smoothly transitions into the club 
mixer “ Another Sad Love Song. ” The notable 
tracks “Therapy” and “Shot Down, ” despite 
being the last tracks on the album, truly 
portray his intrinsic instrumentation being 
accentuated by his casual lyrics that yearn for                 
his mystery girl.
His love for the insouciant life is potent 
all throughout. “8TEEN” and “Let’s Go, ” 
although not as instrumentally sophisticated 
as the album’s highlights, elaborate on his 
juvenile life decisions. “ Angels” closes the 
album in a more low tempo vibe. “The angels 
give me strength, / And I’m not giving up, ” he 
croons as he leaves behind the self-indulgence 
of childhood for a promising future in music.
“ American Teen” is prominently R&B, 
with a hint of smooth pop that pairs well 
with 1980s new wave — a mixed sound that 
is progressive for any other beginning artist 
with no previous signings. Yet Khalid defeats 
odds, and his debut is one that is well worth 
a stream.
—   Melissa  P alafox
Senior Staff WriterA-
LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Spring Slumber
Coming back from spring break, most of us are on a sleep schedule that 
cycles between Netflix and naps. Recenter those circadian cycles and get a 
more balanced approach to hibernation at the start of the quarter. Scientists 
recommend that college students sleep for eight or more hours; when our 
sleeping habits fall well below or unhealthily above that lucky number, more 
often than not, we create what is known as a “sleep debt. ” So going into this 
quarter, let’s make sure student loans are the only thing we owe. 
Awaken Your Appetite
College students have a tendency to either do absolutely nothing or to go all 
out — eating habits included. Skipping meals to study or binge snacking out 
of boredom, we become walking vessels full of sodium and low on nutrients. 
Plus, cooking three solid meals a day is nearly impossible given our schedules. 
So rethink your dining experience — having six smaller meals might better 
help you to stay full throughout the day. (Note: this doesn’t mean having steak 
and ‘taters six times a day). Each “meal” can easily be something concocted 
out of the dining hall salad bar, market bought — think yogurts, small wraps 
or hummus with vegetables — or prepared at the start of the week. And with 
new seasons come new fruits and veggies, so make sure to get your five a day.Rolling in Green 
With daily averages around 64 degrees and the Pacific Ocean as our next 
door neighbor, relearn how to play outside this Spring Quarter. Being outside 
is proven to be a low cost, high reward way to reduce stress while increasing 
awareness and mindfulness, as well as both social and natural connectivity. 
Take a walk to class instead of shuttling, spend a morning heading to the 
shores or sit outside to eat, study or read — 10 minutes under a tree might do 
more than 10 hours in Geisel. 
Spring Cleaning
This expands to more than a quick Swiffer of the kitchen and making your 
bed each morning. And while studies show that a clean space is conducive 
to productivity and can help alleviate stress, expand that spring clean to a 
checking account or planner too. Creating a weekly budget is a recommended 
habit to start earlier in adolescence, so here’s to not spending that bi-weekly 
Wednesday paycheck by Thursday. Separate the check into uneven thirds, 
prioritizing portions based on what is needed (rent, tuition, food), what is 
wanted (everything else) and what could be saved. Investing some time in a 
planner can also help mitigate those financial woes, as well as balancing work 
with play. Learn to make a little bit of space each week to do something you 
actually take interest in, as opposed to cramming in or overcommitting. 
 A Spring Awakening 
by Brittney Lu //Lifestyle Co-Editor
Break the tradition that states January is the only time of year to proclaim a renewed sense of 
self. A new season is in bloom and, come new buds and sprouts, this Spring Quarter is the perfect 
invitation to renew those winter vows we made at the start of 2017, or marry some new ones.Illustrations by Christina Carlson
So this spring, let’s break the cycle of too much and too little. A balanced approach to sleeping, 
eating, playing and organizing can help create a healthier, more holistic approach to life.LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  12
Benefits of blooms 
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-Editor
By Spring Quarter, most UC San Diego students 
are exhausted. Still reeling from the losses of Winter 
Quarter that a week-long spring break has not 
managed to resolve, we’re motivated only by the 
far-away prospect of summer. Spring is also the 
season of warming weather, growing greenery and 
beautiful new blooms, though most of us don’t 
notice until we start sneezing. 
However, flowers can be useful to more people 
than the CEOs of allergy medication companies. 
A Harvard study found that participants who had 
flowers present in the home felt more compassionate, 
worried less and were generally happier. Other 
research has discovered that, in general, flowers 
elicit positive moods, which might be just what we 
lethargic students need. 
Smells are also a big influencer on mood, and 
inhaling the scent of fresh lavender or jasmine may 
help to reduce anxiety before a midterm. Think 
about colors, too: bright-colored flowers might 
energize, whereas pastel-colored flowers might 
remind you to relax.
Searching for some flowers might just be the best 
thing to add to your Sunday routine. If you don’t 
have the luxury of a garden, head to these places to 
pick up a bouquet for your kitchen counter (or even 
your dorm room desk) or spend a day among the 
wildflowers. Buy
UCSD Farmers’ Market
Town Square
Tuesdays, 10 a.m.–2 p.m.
This on-campus farmers’ market usually includes 
flower vendors — stop by on Tuesdays to change out 
your vase! 
La Jolla Open Aire Farmers’ Market 
Corner of Girard Avenue & Genter Street, La 
Jolla
Sundays, 9 a.m.–1:30 p.m.
This market in Downtown La Jolla sometimes 
includes local flower vendors. 
Bridget’s Blooms
1055 Torrey Pines Rd, La Jolla 
If you’re out and about for that Saturday morning 
brunch, make sure to check out this little nook for 
some fresh flora; the arrangements are a bit on the 
pricier side but a peek at these buds couldn’t hurt.
La Jolla Village Florist 
7050 Miramar Rd #104, La Jolla
This shop doesn’t stop with bouquets of 
blooms; La Jolla Village Florist includes a variety 
of houseplant pieces and even fruit arrangements. See
Carlsbad Flower Fields 
5704 Paseo Del Norte, Carlsbad 
This 50-acre field boasts rows upon rows of 
colorful ranunculus flowers. 
Torrey Pines State Natural Reserve
12600 N Torrey Pines Rd, La Jolla
Though not known for its flower display, flowers 
often grow on the seaside cliffs. And if this might be 
too far of a trek from campus, check out the yellow 
bloomers at the cliffs near Revelle.
Anza-Borrego Desert State Park
Borrego Springs 
With the past rainy season, this park is 
experiencing an explosion of flowers and new 
growth. It’s a bit of a trek from UCSD, but it may be 
well worth it if you have a day to spare. 
Illustrations by Christina Carlson13 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
crossword
Across
1. Brouhaha
5. ‘’Cut bait’’ alternative
9. River to the Missouri
14. Solitary
15. 1952 Olympics host
16. ‘’Exodus’’ actor
17. Youthful outbreak
18. Place for cowards?
19. Whimsical poet Nash
20. Team strategy meeting
23. ‘’Frasier’’ star
24. One of the broody bunch?
25. Klutzes
29. Great Giant of old
31. Nonstick surface
33. Make a bundle
37. Corporate nerve center
40. Skilled
42. ___-mo replay
43. Of a musical key
44. Product of creative thinking
47. Title role for Jodie Foster
48. Possessive words before ‘’oneself’’
49. Fowl piece
51. Retort to ‘’Are not!’’
52. Plow into
55. Product rollout
60. Take care of business
63. Room at the top
66. Lose on purpose
67. Kit item
68. Confiscate
69. Keep the car warm
70. Chemical ending or compound
71. Struck with the patella
72. Grabs some shut-eye
73. Las Vegas alternativeDown
1. Hooch holder
2. Six-time Eastwood co-star
3. Declare invalid
4. Slippery objects
5. ‘’The Day of the Jackal’’ author
6. Shrink’s reply
7. Cut prices to the bone
8. Neigh-sayer
9. Melville tale of the South Pacific
10. Ok in writing
11. What’s more
12. Fancy that!
13. One billion years, in astronomy
21. Kate’s ‘’Titanic’’ co-star
22. Division preposition
26. Dress with a flare
27. Centrally located, as a point
28. Fishline attachment
30. New Age pianist John
32. New newt
33. Coffee cake flavored with rum
34. Relevant, in legalese
35. Performs a Lutz
36. Typify
38. Will Smith role
39. Cutie pie
41. Blaster’s need
45. Tall crop
46. Does away with electronically
50. Welcome road sign
53. Introduce to the mix
54. Famous Asia Minor peak
56. Pronounce
57. Herman of Herman’s Hermits
58. Perform like Alfalfa
59. Word on many nametags
61. Like most cupcakes
62. Hired hands
63. Be inquisitive
64. Like many fifth graders
65. No-win situationFURNITURE
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves are 
glass. Bottom with small door. Superb 
condition. Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156999 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - Entertain 
in style with this lovely wooden high-top 
table and stool set. Made from fir and 
pine. You’ll have the best seat in the house 
or even outside to enjoy snacks bever -
ages or a complete meal. Comes with stools 
and table. Pictures and contact details on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156995 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash Sale 
- Furniture is in attractive condition as it has 
been a month since we bought it. Please 
contact -- if you are interested. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationPETS
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. I have 
3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m moving to a 
place with limitation of two pets, I need to 
find them a new home! They are all healthy, 
playful and energetic. Litter box- trained. 
There is one girl, the others are boys. If you 
could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not 
a breeder, so they have never been to a vet. 
However, their parents are healthy. Listing 
ID: 305139343 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. Super 
cute purebred Holland Lop Baby Bunnies. 
They are 8 weeks old and ready to go. I 
handle all my baby bunnies from birth, so they are all tame and sweet. They will 
be between 3-4 pounds when full grown. 
I will show you how to handle your new 
bunny and give you lots of helpful informa -
tion. Please text me at 951-294-2051. I am 
located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 305984269 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. Adorable 
Olde English Bulldogge boys born on 06 
Aug 2016. The pups will be ready to go 
home on 01 Oct 2016 at 8 weeks of age. 
They will come with first two sets of vac -
cines. Please be in touch for rehoming fee 
if interested and/or to schedule an appt to 
visit. Parents on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  14
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
15  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 3, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After a bit of a mediocre stretch at the Aztec Invitational, 
the No. 18 UC San Diego women's water polo team had a 
slight resurgence in its post-finals life. The Tritons went 
undefeated in a three-game road stretch, and it was not 
until they returned home that they lost their win streak.
UCSD’s first two road games came against Cal State 
Monterey Bay and Sonoma State at Atherton (Sacred 
Heart Prep), where it easily took care of the two teams 
like it was nobody’s business. With winning scores of 16–2 
and 13–4 respectively, the Tritons proved they are indeed 
a force to be reckoned with within the Western Water Polo 
Association, despite their inconsistent play outside of it.
Their strong offensive play continued the next day 
against Cal State East Bay, where senior center Lauren 
Boyer scored a game-high five goals enroute to a 13–8 
UCSD victory.But their winning streak proved to be short lived, as 
they fell to No. 19 Hartwick in a close 13–10 match. Boyer 
scored another game-high five goals, but the Hawks’ four 
fourth-quarter goals were enough to push them past the 
Tritons. 
Then, on April 2, UCSD fell short against No. 6 UC 
Irvine to the tune of a 6–3 defensive battle. The formally 
potent Triton offense got barely anything past Anteater 
redshirt senior goalie Annika Nelson, who held firm with 
a .800 (3–12) save percentage. 
The now-14–14 Tritons look to face Long Beach State 
at home on Friday, April 7 at 6 p.m.
—Alex  wu
Sports EditorOn the Hunt for Consistency
After going undefeated on a three-game road stretch, UCSD could 
not hang to its win streak during a four-game homestand.The UC San Diego softball team took part in 
two four-game series over the past few weeks, 
where it faced off against Cal State Monterey 
Bay and Sonoma State, followed by a trip up 
north to Turlock, California to participate in the 
Tournament of Champions. With the softball 
season three-quarters of the way completed, the 
Tritons currently stand with a 17–17 overall record. 
After a brilliant start to the season where they went 
9–0, the Tritons have struggled to carry the same 
momentum onto the rest of the season. Aside from 
winning nine straight to start the season, UCSD 
has only been able to string together two-game win 
streaks since.
In the midst of March, the Tritons traveled to 
Monterey Bay and faced stiff competition as they 
found themselves on the wrong side of a four-game 
sweep, their longest losing streak of the season. At this point, UCSD hit a real rough patch in the 
season as the team did not fair much better in its 
next matchup against Sonoma State. The Seawolves 
took three of the four games in the series, making it 
seven losses in eight games for the Tritons. 
The team made a solid improvement over the 
weekend in the Tournament of Champions, where 
it has racked up four wins out of six total games. 
Perhaps the confidence built over the weekend will 
kickstart a solid run to end the season, which is 
what UCSD needs going into the postseason.
The Tritons will be back at home this upcoming 
weekend, April 7 to April 8, for a four-game series 
against Humboldt State. 
—   Daniel Hernandez
Senior Staff WriterTritons Sputter Through March
After starting the season 9–0, the UC San 
Diego is now in a midseason slump.SOFTBALLBetween March 12 and April 1, the UC San Diego men’s tennis team went 1–4 to 
bring the Tritons to an 8–9 record overall. 
On March 12, UCSD went up against the Bucknell University Bisons. The Tritons 
fell to the Bisons 5–4, with victories in the three (6–1, 6–4) and six (6–4, 6–3) singles 
spots and the one (7–5) and three (6–3) doubles spots. Both singles victories against 
Bucknell for the Tritons were in straight sets. Triton freshman Marc Isaia defeated 
Bison junior Max Kane at the three (6–1, 6–4). UCSD’s freshman Sreeganesh 
Manoharan defeated Bucknell University’s freshman Colin Sacco at the six (6–4, 
6–3). 
UCSD beat Western New Mexico on Tuesday, March 14 (6–3) to improve to 8–6. 
The Tritons won five out of their six singles matches, with sophomore Rodrigo 
Amaral bageling Mustang sophomore Zachary Grabovic at the five spot (6–2, 6–0). 
The two-doubles team of juniors Eric Tseng and Justin Zhang were the only duo to 
win for the Tritons(8–3).
The Tritons headed to Florida for their next few games. They faced Lynn 
University, Barry University and University of West Florida. UCSD fell to Lynn 
University (8–1) on Sunday, March 26. The only win the Tritons were able to secure 
was at the six spot, where Amaral defeated Lynn University’s junior Florian Clemares 
(6–4, 6–2).
The following day, March 27, UCSD met defeat at the hands of Barry University 
(9–0). None of UCSD’s players were able to find anything against the No. 2 nationally 
ranked Buccaneers. The doubles spots were a one-sided affair, with Barry easily 
taking all the games (8–3, 8–4, 8–1). In the singles spots, Zhang and Isaia were 
successful in taking one game off the Buccaneers (6–3, 3–6, 10–2 and 6–4, 4–6, 6–2).
Two days later, the Tritons matched up against the No. 1 ranked West Florida 
Argonauts and were slightly more successful than they were against Barry (8–1). 
Amaral was, once again, the only Triton able to take a victory against the opposing 
team: He defeated senior Douglas Boe at the six spot to secure a hard-fought victory 
(4–6, 6–4, 10–6).
UCSD faces off against University of Hawaii-Hilo on April 2 at 1 p.m. and will 
play Point Loma Nazarene University on Friday, April 7 at 3 p.m. 
—Richard  Lu
Staff WriterTritons Fall Flat Over Spring Break
UC San Diego finds itself winless post-Winter Quarter,        
going 0–3 since the end of Finals Week.MEN'S TENNIS
W. W A TER POLO
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF ATHLETICS DEPARTMENT
PHOTO COURTESY OF ATHLETICS DEPARTMENTUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
Softball
W. Water Polo
M. Volleyball
Baseball2 PM 
1 PM
2 PM 
6 PM 
1 PM4/3
4/7
4/7
4/7
4/8VS Hawaii-Hilo
VS Humboldt State
VS Long Beach State 
VS Pepperdine
VS Chico StateJose, 82
Just your typical Sad Girl babushka. Catch me 
at your local hipster coffee shop. Will cry on your 
bathroom floor tbh.
Naftali, 40
Mr.StealYoGurl
Wanna dance?
*cries over computer*
Let’s talk for 5 seconds and then stop because I 
literally have no time to deal with you
#LanaIsBae
Nate, 30
I play the triangle. 
Sam, 22
I can show you the world. If you’re not talking 
Carly Rae, I don’t wanna talk. Catch me at the 
G-store.
Rosina, 34
Don’t touch me.
Also don’t talk to me.
Lauren, 18
Sorority is life
#Hillary2k16
KuWin, 25
Please SHut!?1
Whhhhuuuuuutttaaaahhhhh??????
*Squeeps*
Marcus, 69
French, and will constantly tell you about it.
#VivaLaFrance
4:20 PM
date  the Guardian
Alex, too many years old
