VOLUME 50, ISSUE 35   MONDA Y , MA Y 1, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SUN GOD 
FESTIVAL
NOT FEELING THOSE POST-
SUN GOD FESTIVAL BLUES? 
READ OUR GUIDE TO GET BACK 
INTO SHAPE FOR MIDTERM 
SEASON AND THE REST OF THE 
LONG, HOT DAYS THAT MAKE 
UP SPRING QUARTER.
SUN  GOD  REFLECTION
W. W A TER POLOOVERBEARING  VIBES
WWP A Championship winnersOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“IT HAS GOTTEN TO A 
POINT WHERE THE PEOPLE 
DON’T LEARN FROM THEIR 
MISTAKES AND STILL 
BELIEVE THAT XENOPHOBIA 
AND IDENTITARIANISM ARE 
ACCEPTABLE. IT IS UP TO THE 
FRENCH POPULATION TO STOP 
THIS TREND IN ITS NEWEST 
OUTPOST.”
- Marcus Thuillier
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  ...2
SUN GOD.........................4
FEATURES  ....................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
MEN’S GOLF  ................. 16 lifestyle,  P AGE  10
ILLUSRTATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
MONDAY
H 73 L 58TUESDAY
H 72 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 59THURSDAY 
H 72 L 59
With a lineup consisting of 
names like Khalid, ScHoolboy Q, DJ 
Mustard and more, UC San Diego 
held its annual Sun God Festival 
this past Saturday at RIMAC Field. 
With a variety of things for students 
to enjoy including music, food, 
video games, a water slide, jenga 
and more, attendance was in the 
thousands.
The festival, which lasted from 
12 p.m. to 6 p.m., enforced strict 
regulations ranging from online 
registration advising students on 
alcohol use to drug-sniffing dogs 
at check-in. In addition, students 
were not granted re-entry, and 
parts of campus were sectioned off throughout the event, requiring 
students residing in Eleanor 
Roosevelt College, Thurgood 
Marshall College and The Village 
to wear wristbands that would allow 
security officers to let them back 
into their respective colleges. 
Aisha Asif, a freshman at Eleanor 
Roosevelt College, was bothered 
by some of the regulations as they 
proved to her to be inconvenient 
and futile.
“I think the wristbands and 
fences were useless because they 
didn’t really enforce it. It was really 
extra, but I appreciate it at the same 
time, ” Asif said.
Nonetheless, Asif still enjoyed 
the festival as it was her first concert 
and first time attending the event. 
“I had a really great time, ” Asif added. “I loved Khalid! That was the 
highlight of my day. ”
This year’s lineup consisted of 
Khalid, ScHoolboy Q, DJ Mustard, 
Bad Suns, Mark Johns, Manila 
Killa, Graham Elliot, Mild High 
Club, Kinjaz, Choreo Cookies, 220 
Second to None and various student 
performers. However, the festival 
had more to offer than just music. 
Sponsored by brands such as 
Vita Coco, Sun God had a water 
slide to help relieve some of the heat 
students experienced. Along with 
other sponsors, students were also 
able to indulge in the free goods 
given out by the different brands. 
With these ranging from acai 
bowls to energy drinks, students Students, Faculty 
March for 
Climate Change  LOCAL
The goal of the march was to 
call attention to the causes and 
importance of global warming.
Thousands of activists marched 
the streets of Downtown San Diego 
for The People’s Climate March on 
April 29 to raise awareness about 
both the planetary and political 
factors causing Earth’s warming 
climate. The demonstration featured 
speeches from former teachers, locals, 
Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez 
Fletcher and UC San Diego student 
Mukta Kelkar.
The San Diego People’s Climate 
March was one of 300 marches across 
the nation including The People’s 
Climate March in W ashington D.C., 
and the goal was to call on leaders to 
use clean energy sources and put a 
halt on climate change policies that 
are being implemented by the current 
administration.
 The march started with live music, 
informational booths, fun activities, 
a kid’s zone with games and speeches 
at Waterfront Park. People were 
socializing and were even sharing the 
posters and flyers they made at home 
to use during the march.
 Kelkar told the UCSD Guardian 
why climate issues matter to our 
generation and are urgent while being 
able to inform people how they can 
make a difference.
 “In our lifetime, we will lose 
the coral reef, witness increasingly 
extreme weather events, experience 
the sixth mass extinction and see an 
exacerbated refugee crisis as people 
are displaced due to drought and 
disaster, ” Kelkar said. “I worked on 
fossil fuel divestment, worked to push 
community choice energy in San 
Diego and worked on collectives that 
made a lot of change on campus such 
as the plastic water bottle ban and 
consumer waste. ”
 A s  s p e e c h e s  c o n c l u d e d ,  a  m i l e -
long march began at W aterfront Park, 
and throughout the march activists 
chanted phrases like “Stand up and 
fight; Environmental justice is a 
human right, ” “Show me what diversity 
looks like; This is what diversity 
looks like” and “We don’t want your 
false solutions; We are sick of your 
pollution. ”
 Hector, a protester who requested 
to keep his last name anonymous, 
mentioned that it is important to 
attend these marches and show the 
government our disapproval of their 
actions.
 “I have personally experienced 
many violations at protests. At the 
Dakota access pipeline protest, I and 
various individuals were sprayed with 
water cannons and [had] tear gas 
[thrown at us], which I still feel the 
effects of, ” Hector said. “However, that 
did not stop me, and I will continue 
to protest the government and show 
them my disapproval. It is important to 
gather and let them hear our message: 
They are destroying the earth, causing 
the earth’s climate to rise and [letting 
the] future [deteriorate] for future 
generations, and we will fight back. ”State Auditor Finds UCOP Mismanaged Funds
The Offic e of the California State Auditor 
released a report today finding that the 
University of California Office of the 
President has been mismanaging its funds and 
attempted to impede the state’s audit of the 
university system’s finances. The report alleges 
that UCOP has over $175 million in its restricted 
and discretionary reserves that it failed to disclose 
and that UC President Janet Napolitano’s office 
was unable to produce a list of all system-wide 
initiatives, their costs and the ways in which they 
benefit the university. 
According to the report, more than one third 
of the funding in the discretionary reserves was 
unspent “campus assessment” money that UCOP 
requires each UC campus to pay annually for 
the purposes of financing the majority of its 
discretionary operations, and in certain years, 
the UC Board of Regents approved increases to 
campus assessment at the request of UCOP even 
though UCOP still had leftover funds from prior 
years. 
The California State Auditor’s Office concludes 
that the budget increase UCOP has received over 
the last several years has resulted in each campus paying more campus assessment, which in turn 
has potentially necessitated the recent increases 
in tuition.
In the letter to Gov. Jerry Brown and the state 
legislature that precedes the report itself, State 
Auditor Elaine Howle criticizes the behavior of 
UCOP during the course of the audit, accusing 
the office of interfering with the surveys each 
campus was required to complete for the audit.
“We found it particularly troublesome that the 
Office of the President intentionally interfered 
in our efforts to assess the types and quality 
of services it provides to campuses,” Howle 
wrote. “Correspondence between the Office of 
the President and the campuses shows that the 
Office of the President inappropriately reviewed 
campuses’ survey responses, which resulted in 
campuses making changes to those responses 
prior to submitting them to us — campus 
statements that were critical of the Office of the 
President had been removed or substantially 
revised, and negative ratings had been changed 
to be more positive. ”
Howle goes on to recommend that the 
legislature increase its supervision of UCOP , B y Lauren  HOl t  News EditorUC SYSTEM
The event included activities like a waterslide in addition to performances from artists like Khalid.CAMPUS
BY  A r m o n i e  M e n d e z
Staff Writer
BY  K e v i n  P i c h i n t e
Contributing Writer
Thousands of  Students Attend Sun God Music Festival
Students dance in the crowd at the Sun God Festival that took place on Saturday on RIMAC field. Photo by Christian Duarte//GuardianCAMPUS
See CLIMATE MARCH , page 3See SUN GOD , page 3See AUDIT , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
By Michi Sora
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.org
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Chronicle our drama!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Aleya Zenieris
Joselynn Ordaz
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper 
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Rachael AlbertsKawasaki Disease is an vascular 
disease seen in children that involves 
inflammation of the blood vessels. 
The disease was first described in 
1967 by Dr. Tomisaku Kawasaki 
at the Tokyo Red Cross Medical 
Center and Honolulu, Hawaii in 
1976 by another medical team. 
The causes of the syndrome are 
still unknown, but researchers are 
beginning to think it may be a viral 
or bacterial agent, as the disease 
seems to occur in outbreaks. No 
theory of its cause has been proven, 
but scientists do believe that it is not 
contagious and that certain genes 
may make a child more susceptible 
than others. Kawasaki disease is one 
of the leading causes of acquired 
heart disease in children, but few 
sustain lasting heart damage with 
treatment. 
Possible complications of the 
disease include inflammation of 
blood vessels that usually supply 
blood to the heart, inflammation 
of the heart muscle, and heart valve 
issues. Weakening of the coronary arteries can lead to an aneurysm, 
an enlargement or swelling of the 
blood vessel wall. For a very small 
amount of children who sustain 
artery damage, Kawasaki disease 
can be fatal even with treatment. 
The disease also has some associated 
risk factors — kids under the age 
of five years are most at risk of 
the disease, boys are more likely to 
acquire it than girls, and children 
of Asian or Pacific Islander descent 
have higher rates of contracting the 
disease. While young children are 
usually diagnosed, the disease can 
also occur in older children and 
adults.
 Kawasaki typically 
presents in three phases of 
symptoms. The first phase’s 
symptoms may include a high fever 
(above 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit) 
lasting for over three days, very 
red eyes without thick discharge, a 
rash on the main body and genital 
area, swollen lymph nodes on the 
neck, a red swollen tongue (also 
known as a “strawberry tongue”), 
cracked and dry lips, and swollen 
red skin on the palms of the hands 
and the soles of the feet. The second phase of symptoms could include 
peeling of the skin on the hands and 
feet often in large sheets, diarrhea, 
joint pain, abdominal pain, and 
vomiting. In the third phase of the 
disease, symptoms will eventually 
fade away unless complications 
develop, and it could take as long 
as eight weeks for energy levels of 
the patient to return to normal. 
Treating the disease within 10 days 
of symptoms presenting can greatly 
reduce chance of lasting damage on 
the body. 
 There are no specific 
lab tests to diagnose Kawasaki 
disease, but patients initially show 
higher levels acute-phase reactants 
erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 
C-reactive protein, and alpha1-
antitrypsin. In the absence of 
a specific lab test, the American 
Heart Association has created 
a criteria of diagnosis of a fever 
lasting more than five days and 
four of the main symptoms of the 
disease. If the patient shows more 
than four of the main symptoms, 
guidelines say the diagnosis could 
happen on day four of the fever. 
Echocardiography is used to monitor possible development of 
coronary artery aneurysms, with 
serial echocardiograms taken at 
the time of diagnosis, two weeks 
after diagnosis, and six to eight 
weeks after diagnosis. If there is 
evidence of a possible aneurysm, 
echocardiograms may be performed 
up to a couple years after diagnosis.
 The main goal of treatment 
is to prevent sustained heart damage 
and coronary artery disease, as 
well as to relieve the symptoms. 
Complete doses of intravenous 
immunoglobulin (IVIG) and low 
doses of aspirin are some of the 
main treatments that the diagnosed 
receive. Corticosteroids are usually 
given to those unresponsive to usual 
treatment and cyclophosphamide is 
given to those who are resistant to 
IVIG. There is a new treatment in 
Japan to give IVIG resistant patients 
ulinastatin, a neutrophil elastase 
inhibitor typically used to treat 
patients with pancreatitis. There 
is currently no known method of 
prevention of Kawasaki disease.Researchers Believe Kawasaki Disease Caused By Virus or BacteriaDISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY  R e v a t i  R a  s h i n g k a r
Contributing Writer
Rev a ti Ra shingkar  rrashing@ucsd.eduThere are three stages of symptoms for the disease, which cannot yet be diagnosed with a lab test.
PIRIT     ARADIGM 
stating that UCOP’s behavior with 
regard to its funding and the audit 
“indicate that significant change is 
necessary to strengthen the public’s 
trust in the University of California. ”
The 177-page report additionally 
reprimands UC OP for not following 
recommended budget practices, not 
justifying the size of its staff and 
their salaries and not charging the 
campuses as little as possible for 
campus assessment, among other 
things. 
The report sets out a number 
of suggested modifications to 
UCOP’s budgetary and spending 
behaviors, such as “developing a 
clear definition of system-wide 
initiatives within the budget, ” which 
UCOP and the UC Board of Regents 
largely agree with. However, both 
the Regents and Napolitano reject 
the recommendation that the state 
legislature increase its oversight of 
Napolitano’s office.  In a letter responding to the 
report, Napolitano also refutes 
the claim that UCOP failed to 
disclose the $175 million, stating 
that the allegation is inaccurate and 
misleading. 
“The $175 million figure 
mischaracterizes the true 
amount of UCOP’s available and 
uncommitted reserve, which is $38 
million, a modest amount for an 
organization our size, ” Napolitano 
said. “Moreover, the $175 million 
amount cited should actually be 
$170 million, as $5 million is not 
UCOP-related fund balance data. ”
Napolitano then explains that 
the $170 million is spent on a 
number of programs and initiatives, 
like growing UC Merced and 
establishing a new medical school at 
UC Riverside. 
The full report and accompanying 
letters of response can be found 
online at auditor.ca.gov. maintained their energy for the last 
three sets, which proved to be the 
most popular: DJ Mustard, Khalid 
and ScHoolboy Q.
For many students, the lineup 
was a hit as Khalid, a student 
favorite, was featured. His song 
“Location” has become popular 
among millennials.
ScHoolboy Q was able to attract 
a large crowd as well. Explaining 
during his set that he was accepted 
to San Diego State University on 
a football scholarship, the crowd 
booed until he emphasized his 
rejection of the school’s offer. 
While it is a popular event, some 
students are unable to attend due to 
other ongoing events.
Due to prior commitments, Muir 
College junior Rachan Narala was 
never able to attend past Sun God 
festivals. However, being that it is 
midterm season, he decided to stay 
on campus this year, allowing him 
to go for the first time.
“I was at different conferences 
going on previous years, but I 
saw the lineup this year and kind of ditched that and came to this 
instead,” Narala said. “Well, not 
really ditched because I couldn’t 
spend a week at a conference 
because of midterms. I decided, why 
not come to Sun God? It was so fun 
and I really liked the headliners this 
year so I was excited for it. ”
Despite the event receiving 
generally positive feedback, some 
students believe that there is always 
room for improvement. 
Kavonna Holloway, a freshman 
in Muir College, gave some insight 
as to what she believes would 
constitute a better Sun God.
“The social vibe is really cool, ” 
said Holloway. “Right now it’s pretty 
good, but there’s probably additional 
things that could happen … maybe 
have it later in the day. The night 
style of it all makes it more out and 
vibrant. ”
With Sun God over, students 
living around RIMAC Field can 
expect fencing and wrist band 
regulations to be taken down. 
Bryant Jew, a marine biology 
major at UCSD, talked about why it is 
essential to act and how he hoped to 
see more involvement from students 
and collaboration with other colleges.
 “ I  h o p e  t o  s e e  m o r e  s t u d e n t  
involvement with the UC San Diego 
Student Sustainability Collective, and 
we also want to continue collaborating 
with other colleges on sustainability 
like community choice energy, ” Jew 
said. “Climate change is a pressing 
issue, and 30 to 40 years from now we 
will see the effects, and by then it will 
be too late to do anything about those 
effects, so we have to act now. We need 
our elected officials to see that we 
want changes, so protests are a good 
way to show that. We might also have 
350 come to campus to talk about the 
legislation that’s going through city hall 
right now and give a brief overview of 
legislations. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
A.S. Safe Rides
THREE FREE RIDES up to $10 each
You don’t have to be a first time 
Uber user to get the f ree credit.
Link your UCSD email to your Uber 
account, and enter in this quarter ’s 
promo code!
ASUCSD x Uber
Read about all the details at: http://as.ucsd.edu/saferidesEnjoy your f ree rides (up to $10) between 6pm- 3am,
Wednesday th rough Sunda y. lauren hol t  lcholt@ucsd.eduArmonie  Mendez  aemendez@ucsd.edu Kevin  pichinte  kpichint@ucsd.eduNapolitano Claims $170 Million Used for 
Legitimate ProgramsStudents Had Suggestions to Improve the Event Jew: We Need to Act 
Now on Climate Change▶ AUDIT,  from page 1 ▶ SUN GOD,  from page 1 ▶ CLIMATE MARCH , from page 1 
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Gender Breakdown: 2017 U.S.  Festivals Overall 
v. Sun God's Decade AverageWe did it, people: We hit the 
unholy Trifecta!
First Brexit, then Trump and 
now the far-right has reached 
the second round of the French 
election for the first time in 15 
years. The parallels are uncanny. 
France is now divided in two, 
between East and West, forced 
to decide between a populist and 
nationalist conservative candidate 
and a capitalist liberal. And, just like 
in America, the French election has 
promoted a xenophobic, racist and 
frankly unrealistic ideology that has 
turned the public opinion against 
the establishment. 
To many, including myself, 
France is a country that is usually 
synonymous with democracy 
and freedom. “Liberty, Equality, 
Fraternity” is a national motto. 
France has a plurality of political 
parties, with an established and 
well-oiled political system that 
has never before been challenged 
under the fifth Republic the way 
it is today. There are two things 
about this election that make it so 
unsettling and unpredictable — an 
early candidate for word of the year. 
The first one concerns the 
candidates themselves. Trump, 
although he portrayed himself as 
an anti-establishment candidate 
and several times threatened to 
run as an independent during his 
campaign, was still running as a 
candidate for the Republican party, 
a party founded in 1854. No one 
could expect a candidate not coming 
from one of the two top traditional 
parties to win in the United States. 
In France, however, they took the 
concept of the anti-establishment 
and perfected it. Emmanuel Macron, 
the man with the most votes in 
the first round and a proven track 
record of, well, nothing, since he is 
a political newcomer, has created 
his own political party in order to 
run for the presidency. The other 
candidate, Marine Le Pen, is as anti-
establishment as it gets. 
Beyond that, this second 
candidate represents the National 
Front, a party founded by Nazi-
sympathizers, including Le Pen’s 
father, that is still widely regarded 
as a threat. Their agenda pushes 
xenophobic, racist and securitarian 
ideas, just like alt-right Trump 
supporters, as well as a proposed 
referendum for a Fran-xit. In 2002, 
the first time the party reached the 
second round, all candidates called 
to block the then candidate, Jean-
Marie Le Pen. He finished with only 
18 percent of the popular vote in the 
second round. This time, opposition 
doesn’t look as promising. At least 
one candidate, Jean Luc Melanchon, 
refused to call for a collective block 
to Marine Le Pen, who is already 
placed at 40 percent in the always-
volatile polls.
This situation feels awfully 
familiar. After the economic 
crisis of 2008, the refugee crisis in 
Europe, and a general tiredness of 
the political establishment, it’s no 
wonder that the wave of populism 
continues to spread across Europe. 
However, it has gotten to a point 
where the people don’t learn from 
their mistakes and still believe that 
xenophobia and identitarianism are 
acceptable. It is up to the French 
population to stop this trend in its 
newest outpost by electing the least 
worst candidate.Sun God 
Says.. .
Where the 
Ladies at?
'17'16
'11
'09
BOOKINGS
BY
MALE SOLO, DUO & 
GROUP ACTS
DUOS/GROUPS WHOSE 
MEMBERS ARE NOT ALL MEN
WOMEN SOLO, DUO & 
GROUP ACTS
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
%GENDER
74%
MALE14%
FEMALE
12%
MixED
2017 OVERALL
11%
MixED8%
FEMALE81%
MALE
86
1008073
7967
8084
86
89 20
714 17
8 77
2016
208711
14
 INFOGRAPHIC, DA T A & WRITING 
B Y QUINN PIEPER //  OPINION  EDITORSaving France 
from NationalismMARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDUACROSS 
THE GLOBE
SUN GOD
SUN GOD data gathered using webarchive.org U.S. FESTIVALS DATA OBTAINED FROM PITCHFORK
'08 '10 '15 '13'12 '14
CRUNCH iNG THE NUMBERS  ON THE FEST ivAL'S BOO kiNGS FOR THE PAST DECADE  SHOWS  
THAT  — L ikE viRTUALL y EvERy MUSiC FEST ivAL iN THE UNiTED STATES  — MEN DECORATE  
A vAST MAjORiTy OF SUN GOD'S LiNEUPS  AND HEADL iNERS .Sun God:  
A Reflection In “Too Many Man, ” British 
rapp er-and-gift-to-E ar th 
Skepta pleads: “We need some 
more girls in here; there’s too 
many man, too many man. ” Caught 
up in the club, Skepta’s commentary 
reminds me of a sad proverb I heard 
throughout my Freshman year about “the ratio” at parties. But the sentiment 
of seeing an overrepresentation 
of men is something so obviously 
universal throughout professional, 
political and music spheres.
This is evident upon a brief 
glance at most lineups for American 
music festivals, where a percentage BY MEGAN MONGES// 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
READ on PAGE 4of acts betweens 70 to 90 percent 
consist exclusively of men, whether 
it’s groups of them, duos of them, or 
male solo artists. A data visualization 
published by Pitchfork puts the 
average number across U.S. festival 
acts at 74 percent male, 12 percent 
mixed gender and 14 percent female. 
The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board 
wrote last year about how this doesn’t 
stop at smaller festivals, like our 
own Sun God Festival, where recent 
headliner history is entirely male. 
This year, I wanted to illustrate 
what the Editorial Board previously 
discussed by observing percentages 
of male-exclusive talent in the last 10 
years at Sun God.
The statistics on Sun God 
bookings by gender were obtained by 
Web Archiver, which shows lineups 
for Sun God dating years back via 
official website. Excluded from 
the totals were Battle of the Bands 
winners, dancers and comedians, in 
order to paint a clearer picture of the 
musical talent booked. The sample 
sizes for the 10 years vary greatly due 
to the change in lineup size; where 
the festival used to book between 
10 and 20 acts, it has in recent years 
booked fewer, and evidently bigger, 
acts. Still, the end-results are a matter 
of calculations, and the takeaway isn’t 
affected greatly by these differences 
in sample size.
In order to group the acts by 
gender, official websites, press and 
social media were referred to. Acts 
whose acts consisted of all male 
members were grouped under the 
“exclusively male” label; acts where 
the group was mixed gender were 
labeled as such; lastly, female solo, 
duo and group acts were labeled as 
such. Bands whose members’ genders 
were not identifiable were left out of 
the sample to avoid assumption, but 
only three of the more-than-hundred 
acts sampled were excluded. 
It is clear that Sun God follows a 
nationwide problem of discrepancy 
as to male-domination at music 
festivals, and has maintained this 
across the past decade. As was written 
last year, it’s a symptom of sexism 
that takes shape from the inception 
to the performance stages of music 
described by everyone from FKA 
Twigs and Bjork to Grimes: women 
being discouraged from pursuing 
music, being condescended in the 
production process, being credited 
less for their own work than male 
collaborators.
Booking is just one aspect of the 
bigger sexism-in-music picture, but 
the decisions made on this end firmly 
perpetuates the prioritization of male 
artists at a festival that has neither 
male-demographic to cater to nor 
a reason to keep a string of male 
headliners unbroken for an entire 
decade.      Sun God 2014 is often 
referred to as the “last great Sun God” 
by members of the graduating class of 
2017. Beginning at noon, the festival 
lasted for 12 hours, letting festival- 
goers dance and enjoy the headliner, 
Diplo, until midnight. Because the 
festival lasted all day, students were 
naturally allowed to leave and return 
to RIMAC field at anytime. This was 
great for students who didn’t want to 
spend money on the expensive food 
vendors, and allowed attendees to get 
out of the hot sun for a few hours and 
go back to their apartments to rest or 
hydrate. Guest tickets could still be 
bought, allowing friends or significant 
others from other universities 
access to the festival. When the 
festival ended at midnight, students 
weren’t immediately forced to leave 
and return to their apartments or 
dormitories. When we did return to 
our on-campus housing, residential 
security officers and campus police 
did not wait for us at our doors. We 
had the freedom to enjoy our Sun 
God as we saw fit.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
  If Sun God 2016 is any indicator, 
then we can expect to see extensive 
regulations in place this upcoming 
Saturday. It has already been 
announced that the festival would 
begin at noon and end at 6 p.m., 
giving ample time for students to 
make their “early” bedtimes. Adding 
in drug-sniffing dogs, a heavy police 
presence, no re-entry into the event 
and no guest tickets, Sun God 2017 
does not look very promising.
   While these policies have 
positively affected some aspect of 
drug and alcohol use at Sun God, they 
have not had a severe impact on the 
number of students participating in 
disorderly conduct. A report released 
from the University’s Office of 
Student Conduct regarding Sun God 
2015 found that "Three-fifths (60.3 
percent) of all Sun God weekend 
incidents involve students being 
admitted to the on-campus Detox 
Center. This is a 13 percent increase from 2014 and a 22 percent increase 
from 2013. ” Since implementing 
these changes, more students are 
arriving intoxicated, and with the 
shortened time frame, more students 
will be using alcohol and drugs for 
an extended period of time after the 
event ends. This shortened period of 
time will ultimately lead to a larger 
percentage of intoxicated students 
and subsequently a higher percentage 
rate of arrests or detainment. The 
student conduct office’s report of the 
2016 festival found that 13 percent 
of all students admitted to the detox 
center were removed due to arrest; 
this is the most since 2011, when 
only eight students were arrested. 
The University is acknowledging 
that students will still be using these 
substances, but since it will be done 
away from the event, in dorms, 
apartments and off-campus housing, 
it is not their problem. Officials are 
effectively wiping their hands from 
any sort of liability but not helping 
students understand the real dangers of heavy drug or alcohol use. The 
student conduct office also found 
an increase in students attempting 
to buy or sell student ID cards to 
gain entrance to the festival; many 
students cited the elimination of 
guest tickets as reasoning. 
   There is no easy solution to make 
Sun God safe and still enjoyable. 
With arrests, an overdose in 2015, 
and a high percentage of students 
being admission to detox centers or 
hospitals, the University had to make 
adequate changes to protect students. 
However, I wish UCSD officials 
would stop treating students like 
small children instead of the young 
adults we are. Regardless of policies 
or threats, students are still going to 
consume psychoactive substances. 
We should be given the support and 
resources to make smart, informed 
decisions for ourselves, not a 
confined, shortened festival that we 
cannot leave. 
SPRING 2017
M: 10am-1pm
Tu/Th:  12:30 pm-2pm
W: 10am-1pm
F: 12pm -3pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTE RHOURS
/tritonfood pantry
▶ BOOKING, from page 4
MEGAN  MONGES  MMONGES@UCSD.EDUREADERS CAN CONTACT
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A BRIEF HISTOR Y OF SUN GODBy Oliver Kelton
Features Editor
“The University of California, San 
Diego Associated Students have 
planned the first UCSD Sun God 
Festival, which will take place from 11 a.m. to 
6 p.m. Friday, May 11, at Muir College. ”
So reads the April 1984 news release 
announcing the first Sun God Festival. Current 
students who remember the rowdy pre-2015 
festivals would be surprised at the mildness 
of this Sun God. Featured events included 
“musicians, actors, jugglers, folk dancers, 
break dancers, UCSD dancers, a TGIF raffle, 
a dance and an air band competition, ” all the 
culmination of a year and a half of planning. 
Hosting only local and student acts, the festival 
had more of the feel of a high school talent 
show than a music festival. The event was 
followed by a KSDT-hosted dance in the Main 
Gym from 8 p.m. to midnight.
The original purpose of the festival, 
according to director Susan Lewis, who would 
graduate in 1985, was to raise money for 
charity and student organizations through the 
sale of concessions. Though modeled on the 
much larger Mardi Gras festival at UCLA, the 
organizers of the first Sun God tried to keep 
costs down by hiring only university-affiliated 
entertainers.
“Lewis states that the high admission price 
to that event (the fee pays for a big name band, 
booth building, etc.) is counterproductive, ” 
read a May 10, 1984 UCSD Guardian article, 
now ironic in hindsight.
Still, the organizers of the first Sun God had 
a grand image in mind for the future of the 
festival. Lewis envisioned it lasting two days 
in 1985 and eventually moving to a weeklong 
event.
The 1985 festival was indeed a step up from 
the previous year, with the renowned Chicano 
rock band Los Lobos headlining the event. Still, 
the event lasted only one day and lacked rides, 
two things that A.S. Council had hoped for.
The festival in 1986 would actually be a step 
down from the previous year’s festivities: no 
major musical act came to headline. Instead, 
the focus was a variety of booths set up by 
student orgs. The highlights, according to the 
May 9 Guardian article of that year, were 
a fortune telling booth set up by Darkstar 
Science Fiction Library, a mud wrestling match by the rugby team and a rat race hosted by 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Interestingly, 
however, the festival was sponsored in part by 
Budweiser, which provided $3,000 in funding.
The festival would go without a major 
headlining act for the rest of the ‘80s: practically 
unheard of bands such as “Freaky Executives” 
and “Man-go Bang” were the only talent the 
festival managed to attract. It seemed that the 
lofty vision put forth by the original festival 
organizers would never come to pass.
The year 1992, however, would mark a 
turning point in the festival’s history, beginning 
a tradition of attracting up-and-coming acts 
on the verge of fame. That year Blur, the Brit-
pop band that would achieve fame later in the 
‘90s, headlined the festival. Two years later, in 
1994, the festival was headlined by No Doubt 
and They Might Be Giants, two of the biggest 
names in the ‘90s alt-rock scene. In 1999 the 
festival hosted the Black Eyed Peas, then a 
relatively unknown alternative hip-hop group.
The increase in the caliber of the 
performances had to do, in large part, with 
a growing budget. The original 1984 festival 
was allotted a mere $9,000; by 2000 the budget 
would balloon to a whopping $80,000, then to 
$140,000 in 2001.
The festival grew to be a sprawling, all-
campus event. By 1999, booths hosted by 
fraternities and every student org imaginable 
sprawled from Sun God statue to Library Walk, 
serving food and providing entertainment. 
Concerts would need to be moved to 
increasingly larger locations to accommodate 
the larger crowds, now numbering in the 
thousands. Concerts would be hosted at Price 
Center and Warren Mall before reaching their 
current location on RIMAC Field by 2000.
As the festival grew in size, it also grew in 
notoriety. In 1993, when the festival was held 
at Price Center Plaza, campus police pressured 
A.S. Council to put a fence around the event 
and restrict each UCSD student to inviting one 
guest, who had to be at least 18 years old. This 
was in response to a rash of intoxicated minors 
the year before, when security was much less 
strict. By 1996, UCSD Police and A.S. Council 
were forced to increase security at the event to 
include eight regular police officers and two 
supervising officers, an increase from a total of seven officers in 1995. This was a response to 
16 arrests for possession of drugs and alcohol 
at 1995’s Sun God. This was only a preview 
of things to come: In 2013, police would be 
making a stunning 143 arrests at the event. 
This record number, an increase of 50 percent 
from the year before, led to the creation of 
the first Sun God Task Force, which aimed 
to curb the culture of drug use and alcohol 
consumption that surrounded the festival.
The culture of wanton drug and alcohol 
use reared its ugly head in 2014, when junior 
Revelle student Ricardo Ambriz died of an 
overdose of the amphetamine “Benzo Fury” 
the night of Sun God. As a result, the next year 
saw a significant increase in security. Ticket 
sales to non-UCSD students ended to control 
the size of the crowd. The University also put a 
clamp on the tradition of frequenting alcohol-
fueled International House parties between 
performances: festival attendees were subject 
to a no re-entry policy, and I-House was closed 
off to non-ERC residents. In 2016 restrictions 
reached their current extent: the festival was 
cut from 12 hours to six, ending well before 
sunset.
With cutbacks so severe, many UCSD 
students have come to the conclusion that the 
days of the “real” Sun God Festival are over. 
While the festival is now smaller than it has 
been in decades, the “death” of Sun God has 
been called many times before. As far back 
as 1996, in a Guardian editorial entitled “Sun 
God Festival 1996: We Failed Miserably, ” the 
editorial board lamented students being shut 
out of the concert at “only 10 p.m., ” complaining 
that the administration had “decided to enforce 
a police state” and “squashed all efforts for 
UCSD students to enjoy their own event. ” 
Four years later, the festival would find itself 
in a bigger venue on RIMAC Field, and the 
biggest artists to headline Sun God — Ludacris, 
Kendrick Lamar and the Black Eyed Peas, 
still lay in the future. Though the future of 
the festival appears shaky due to the recent 
security clampdown, there remains hope that 
the festival can bounce back once again.Remembered by older UC San Diego students and alumni as a wild, noon-to-midnight celebration, Sun God has been scaled back to six hours of relatively 
tame fun on RIMAC Field. What many students don’t know, however, is that this is only one of many incarnations the festival has gone through.
OLIVER KEL TON  OKELTON@ucsd.eduIllustration from the UCSD Guardian ArchivesFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
I stood in the back of the Great 
Hall, its high, vaulted ceilings rever -
berating with the lively chatter of 
students awaiting a global health talk 
on health and climate change. Among 
the anticipated speakers was Dr. 
Veerabhadran Ramanathan, a Scripps 
climate scientist who advised Pope 
Francis on the moral issues of climate 
change, poverty and food security. 
The professor’s title and history hold 
an impressive weight that is belied by 
his form of a small, older Indian man.
Ramanathan, who likes to be 
called “Dr. Ram” for short, began 
speaking in a shaky, quiet voice prone 
to mumbling. His habit of letting 
the microphone drift away from his 
face meant his words would cut in 
and out, but even so, his message 
was clear: We need to make climate 
change personal in order for people 
to care.
It was a quiet revelation — one 
that seems so simple but so difficult 
to do. I mulled it over as I waited 
for the next speaker, flipping aim -
lessly through the messages on my 
phone, when a new email appeared. 
“FYI — UC ‘Climate Lab’ launch, ” 
the subject line read; I clicked on the 
envelope icon and read, “Hi Rebecca, 
I’m reaching out from President 
Napolitano’s office at the University 
of California. ” 
Climate Lab is a video series col -
laboration between the UC system 
and Vox Media, which aims to engage 
viewers in understanding climate 
change and the ways we can help 
mitigate its effects in an approachable 
and friendly way. 
The first video, “Why humans 
are so bad at thinking about climate 
change, ” introduces the series’ charis -
matic host, conservation scientist Dr. 
Muttulingam Sanjayan, who empha -
sizes that we should not use “doom-
and-gloom” messaging. Instead, we 
should utilize playful and engaging 
dialogue paired with concrete and 
accessible actions. The video seemed 
like an answer to Ramanathan’s ques -
tion of how we can talk about climate 
change and even expanded upon it: 
We should be personal but also play -
ful. 
As a whole, the University of 
California has committed to sev -
eral sustainability-minded goals; in 
2013, the UC Office of the President 
introduced the Carbon Neutrality 
Initiative in which we have com -
mitted to making each of our eight 
campuses carbon neutral by 2025. 
Other initiatives include improving 
food choices at campus diners to be 
healthier, locally-sourced and more 
sustainable; committing to all new 
buildings being LEED-certified, a 
marker of being energy efficient and 
made of sustainable materials; and 
reducing each campus’s consumption 
of potable water by 20 percent.
There is also a history of signifi -
cant student involvement in sustain -
ability initiatives on their respective 
campuses. UC Santa Cruz’s Green 
Lab works toward improving ener -gy efficiency and green-purchasing 
power through a student-run certi -
fication program and education and 
outreach efforts to students, staff and 
faculty. UC Santa Barbara has a wide 
range of research opportunities in 
areas such as environmental policy, 
urban planning and marine conser -
vation for students to be involved 
in. The UC-wide movement to 
divest from fossil fuel companies has 
seen some success in the form of 
Academic Senate resolutions at UC 
Davis, UCSB and UC San Diego.
This is in addition to the pleth -
ora of climate change research 
being done across the UC campus -
es. At UCSD’s Scripps Institute of 
Oceanography, work in biodiversity 
and conservation, environmental and 
human health and how ice is chang -
ing as a result of climate change has 
been happening for years. Notably, 
Scripp’s CO2 program continues the 
work of tracking carbon dioxide lev -
els at Mauna Loa Observatory in 
Hawaii. The program, founded by 
Ralph Keeling, has produced one of 
climate science’s most well-known 
climate change graphs, named the 
Keeling Curve after its creator, that 
provides evidence for changing levels 
of carbon dioxide and how it affects 
our atmosphere.
I wanted to understand the pro -
cess behind the collaboration, the 
ways they sought to engage the public 
and how this series fit into the larger 
picture of the UC system’s climate 
action history.
“We see Climate Lab as a very log -
ical extension of that work, given our 
expertise and work in this area, ” UC 
spokesperson Stephanie Beechem 
prefaced, framing the video series 
within previous work the UCOP has 
done on food waste, water policy and 
carbon neutrality. 
“Like the first video, you’re going 
to expect to see lots of experts from 
the UCs, other institutions who are 
analyzing and doing work on the sur -
prising ways we can use technology 
to address [climate change], focus -
ing on everyday, practical solutions. 
We’re trying not to scare people here. ”
We both chuckle, familiar with 
the challenge of conveying the weight 
of climate change without leaving a 
crushing existential crisis in its wake. 
After a few short introductions, I 
began to delve into the process of 
the video collaboration with Vanessa 
Correa, the creative director, and 
Rana Freedman, the content market -
ing director at the UCOP .
As someone who finds great joy 
in being able to create something that 
engages the community, I was curi -
ous to know how their experiences 
led them to their role in the video 
series and at the UCOP .
Freedman’s past position as mar -
keting director for “Lonely Planet, ” a 
travel company that produces travel 
content, gave her the experiences of 
collaborating with big companies 
and media outlets such as Apple and 
CNN. She left her position at Lonely Planet after 10 years. “I was really 
excited to come over here to the 
University of California because we 
have such amazing content here, ” 
Freedman exclaimed. “The research 
and especially presidential initiatives 
around food security, climate change 
and sustainability are all passions of 
mine. ”
One big aspect of Freedman’s job 
is to secure media partnerships for 
content. She pinpointed why Vox was 
the perfect choice. “They have the 
same mission that the University of 
California has around its research, 
which is trying to explain and decon -
struct really complicated news and 
current events into ways that are 
really accessible and easy for people 
to understand, ” Freedman empha -
sized. She also explained that while 
Vox and the UC system have not had 
an explicit partnership before, Vox 
was a fan of previous work the UC 
system has done, including a video 
series called “Fig. 1” that features 
UC researchers explaining their work 
through animations that make the 
content fun and accessible. Moreover, 
Vox’s excellent track record with 
video content and production as well 
as their huge audience made them an 
attractive media partner. 
I asked Correa to elaborate on the 
flip side of this partnership — com -
ing up with the concept for a climate 
change series and how they brought 
it to Freedman to gain a wider audi -
ence.
“I’ve always worked in issues-
based marketing and design, ” 
Correa said. She was a vice presi -
dent at Jasculca Terman Strategic 
Communications in Chicago, which 
worked around specific campaigns 
for the city, before leaving to start 
her own firm. When she came to the 
University of California, she felt it 
was a natural transition to build her 
brand and tell a systemwide story.  
“It was a very conscious decision 
to … approach the problem from a 
more playful or almost entertaining 
point of view, ” Correa said pointedly. 
The first video opens with a reel of 
news clips detailing the rising carbon 
dioxide levels, the pollution of China, 
sea levels rising and glaciers melting. 
Sanjayan, a conservation scientist, cut 
in and said, “We get it! It’s not like we 
don’t care about polar bears and ice 
caps … But over the years, one thing 
has really become clear to me: We 
need to change the way we talk about 
climate change. ” 
The question then became, how 
do we engage with content that is dif -
ficult and emotionally laden? Correa 
honed in on two important ways to 
help people engage with the material. 
“[We want to] help [people] feel that 
there are concrete actions they can 
take to affect positive change — on 
a micro level, but also show how, 
from a systems-thinking perspective, 
how we can affect change on a macro 
level. ” 
The video features a company 
called Opower, a subsidiary of Oracle that creates applications and easy-to-
use interfaces that can track consum -
er’s usage of water and energy along 
with easy tips for reducing usage. It’s 
representative of the way the Climate 
Lab series wants to highlight technol -
ogy as a way to make sustainable hab -
its accessible and practical for people 
in their everyday lives.
The video received 56,000 views 
in the first 48 hours on Y ouTube and 
over 101,000 views on Facebook. At 
the time of this article, the video now 
has 491,593 views. I commented that 
I even had a friend whose professor 
told them to watch the video in class, 
sparking a round of laughter, one of 
them saying, “Thank you for telling 
us that!” through her chuckles. 
I asked them to talk about the 
everyday workings of creating media 
in partnerships in order to under -
stand how the two entities collabo -
rated and what they each brought to 
the table. Correa explained that the 
UC system drove the editorial con -
tent and feel of the video, while Vox 
provided feedback.
“We found [Sanjayan] as a host 
early on, and worked with him to 
develop what the topics were going 
to be, ” Correa explained. “[Then] we 
were able to put together the very 
rough outlines and put together what 
we call a ‘mood reel’ of what the tone 
would be like. Then we could talk 
to Vox more concretely about what 
we wanted to do. [W]hile Vox was 
involved throughout the process they 
did not drive the editorial or look and 
feel; they simply put their eyes on it 
and made sure it was working with 
their mission and brand as well. ”
In addition to the videos, there 
is a plethora of other content on 
their website such as articles, quiz -
zes on climate change, even quotes 
from other researchers that were not 
focused on in the videos. Freedman 
explained how they commissioned 
articles, illustrations and infographic 
content to continue the conversation 
in an engaging and innovative way. 
For example, they have a video 
on food waste that explores the vast 
amount of food thrown away from 
restaurants, grocery stores and dining 
halls that is still safe and edible but 
may be discarded because of aesthetic 
reasons or strict regulations. They 
expanded on this idea of unneces -
sarily strict labeling with an article 
about how the conservative estimates 
of expiration dates on food labels 
actually cause a great amount of food 
waste.
I knew that they were both run -
ning a little late, so I put in one last 
question: How do you feel about cli -
mate change?
The topic change and the scale of 
the question made everybody laugh 
again. Their goal of bringing impor -
tant news to the public in an acces -
sible and friendly way was reflected 
in their own personalities — even 
just 20 minutes of chatting with them 
conveyed that.
“It’s [showing Napolitano’s] understanding of the issue, her com -
mitment to furthering research, 
but also leading by example … by 
embodying the principles of sustain -
ability, ” Freedman said. “This series is 
a reflection of how seriously she takes 
the issue. ”
Ramanathan, during the climate 
change talk at UCSD, had emphati -
cally declared that Napolitano was 
“his hero” for putting forth the 
Carbon Neutrality Initiative.
Correa echoed similar sentiments. 
“I think it’s probably one of the big -
gest moral and ethical issues of our 
time, ” she said seriously. “Doing a 
project like this is extremely gratify -
ing on a personal level, to be able 
to try and open the dialogue and to 
engage people in a way they might 
not have been engaged before is very 
critical. ”
The video series, which will 
have six installments in total, is set 
to release every week for the next 
four weeks. The second video, titled 
“Going green shouldn’t be this hard, ” 
came out this past Wednesday on 
April 26 and humorously riffs off the 
question of “Does my recycling even 
really matter?” 
It seeks to connect the small, 
everyday actions of sustainability 
with the change it can create on a 
macro scale. The video delves into 
how the policies for businesses, like 
the carbon tax, need to be changed 
in order to hold them accountable for 
the products and pollution they pro -
duce so that the burden does not fall 
on consumers and government. The 
next video is set to release on May 
3 and will discuss how smartphones 
impact the environment.
Each of these videos and their 
accompanying content seek to reach 
a specific niche of people: people who 
care about the environment and have 
tried to change their habits but may 
feel discouraged about the impact 
they are making. The platform of 
video content is uniquely suited to 
engaging many people — quite frank -
ly, it’s much more fun and inspiring 
than looking at discouraging graphs 
or watching somber newscasters talk 
about the rising carbon-dioxide levels 
and disappearing rare species.
It seeks to make sustainabil -
ity habits into a fun and rewarding 
endeavor, not to vilify or victim -
ize any one entity. Instead, it has 
the potential to open a productive 
dialogue on how the many players 
— individual consumers, businesses 
and the government — need to come 
together to create meaningful change.
Ramanathan asked the question, 
“How do we make climate change 
personal to make people care?” 
According to Climate Lab, it’s not 
enough to be personal — we have to 
make it playful, too.       T ACKLING CLIMA TE CHANGE WITH PLA YFULNESSBy Rebecca Chong
Contributing Writer
REBECCA CHONG RCCHONG@ucsd.edu
A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // BRITTNEY LU & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
There is still, someplace in my mind’s archive of vague motifs gathered 
from entertainment, this anachronistic idea of universities forcing 
students to cultivate their own gardens. It’s an archaic idea that crumbles 
easily to dust after a year or so here at UC San Diego. The idea that students 
are expected to return home as insufferable rose growers manifests itself in the 
shorthand we use to talk about ideas and feelings — tastes in literature and film. 
It’s possible that colleges never really introduced this agriculture of the soul 
to anybody. It’s arguable that making other people do something so inner is 
impossible. What seems plain is that the understanding of colleges as authorities 
helping students cultivate kosher taste is becoming unpopular. 
It’s a fascinating mystery, why exactly this reputation of school-encouraged 
snobbery is dissolving. The reputation itself is wooly and blurred, so its 
disappearance is hard to argue for — but one can perform guesswork that leads 
to my point this way: Reputations inform behavior, and students don’t seem to 
be behaving in a way that suggests they think they’re expected to sophisticate 
their pleasures. They don’t seem to be going out of their way to recognize 
themselves in this tradition or to agree with me that it even is a tradition. The 
quintessence of this dissolution is the obsession, widespread among UCSD 
students, with Disney movies. 
One explanation is that the cult of Disney is backlash in concert to the 
infiltration of pedantry into pleasure. Students could be ill at ease to surrender 
the tending of their personal preferences to something as impersonal as an 
institution. Who is to say what art is worthy of esteem? This tempting response 
is sensible, except for two glaring reasons. 
The first is that while one might think of schools as telling young people 
which writers to like as the prime example of this cult of cultivation, it is not 
the only example. After post-structuralist and anti-racist attacks were applied 
to the university’s definition of “culture, ” there remained an array of books and 
films students were socially obligated to familiarize themselves with, both within 
and outside syllabi. There are plenty of radical writers and filmmakers that one 
imagines as socially mandatory on university campuses, not for their classicism, 
but for their volatility. People like Godard, Debord, McLuhan, or even trendier, 
more pop people, like Neil Postman or James Howard Kunstler, are mostly 
forgotten at UCSD, and there doesn't seem to be a newly chosen batch of outlaws 
to replace them. 
The second reason that the idea of Disney lovers as rebels doesn’t quite 
work is that if students were hellbent on making norm-disrupting statements 
with their tastes, a Disney movie would be a terrible cultural artifact to employ 
as their weapon. It’s hard to name a more naked symbol of conformism or 
the unabashed, 1980s style of consumerism so universal that it has actually become cliche to complain about than Disney. They advertise for their movies 
using sugary fruit snacks included by parents in packed lunches, and the idea 
of Disneyland, not an unpopular destination for UCSD students, is insane. 
Disneyland is a vertically integrated experience. They call it the place “where 
dreams come true. ” Also, everyone has heard someplace that Walt Disney 
was anti-Semitic, which would matter to people in our sensitive era of ethical 
consumerism if they were using their enthusiasm for the cartoons to make 
some kind of moral or progressive statement. Students have been historically a 
powerful political force, and they may continue to be — but a declared affinity 
for Disney is an aberration from that and not an extension of it.  
In the same vague sense that I think universities are supposed to make 
students hip, I think that people with Latin printed inside little crests on their 
sweaters and notebooks are supposed to be embarrassed to keep abreast of 
Disney creations. People like to cite nostalgia, which only makes sense for 
movies that came out before we all grew up. Plenty of Disney movies popular on 
campus were seen by the students for the first time as adults. Also, the popular 
Disney movies don’t retain the dated flavor of the decades from which they 
sprang very strongly. “Snow White” is very old, but it isn’t stylized in a way that 
makes it belong to its time —  anyway, I think that recent Disney films like 
“Frozen” would far outpace “Snow White” in any UCSD vote. For the fact of 
their contemporary creation and their contemporary style, Disney movies are 
excluded from agreed-upon radness of a “Fantastic Planet” or a “Rainbow Brite, ” 
both of which would make much more sense on a campus. 
The disappearance of the idea is, I think, pretty new. The youngest students 
here can now probably remember a time when their older siblings were reading 
something that was popular at their college. It’s hard for me to name any book, 
new or old, which is very popular among UCSD students. It’s only possible to 
name some films popular among UCSD students, and half of them are children’s 
movies. 
I don’t mean to say that UCSD students aren’t sophisticated or that they aren’t 
enjoying challenging art. I just mean to say that when we do consume art created 
for the adult world, we are all watching different films and reading different 
books. It is as if we’ve all agreed that these are individual pursuits. They aren’t 
the business of our peers and they certainly aren’t the business of our professors. 
UCSD isn’t here to make us posh, and maybe that's the way it ought to be. There 
was something oppressive about the old-school campus culture anyway: There’s 
nothing noble about getting everyone to think the same way even if it’s through 
extremely cool pieces of art. It’s only a change in tastes stemming from the decay 
of an outdated rumor, but I find it a slightly strange change and miss what was 
an endearing rumor. 
The Mystery of Disney’s 
Popularity at UCSD
Students aren’t the demographic people usually associate with Disney movies, but we happily enjoy them anyway.by Susie Davidson // Senior Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Samurai Jack is an epic serial that remains just as absorbing as it was over a decade ago with both familiar and fresh elements adding to its wonder.Samurai  Jack
PHOTO COURTESY OF CARTOON NETWORK
Creators   Genndy Tartakovsky
Starring Phil LaMarr, Greg Baldwin, Tara Strong, Grey Delisle
Runs  Saturdays at 11PM on Cartoon Network
Rated   TV-14 ATV  REVIEW
“Samurai Jack” was a 
cartoon far ahead 
of its time with a 
straightforward story and breathtaking 
animation unlike any predecessor. 
These attributes deemed it a unique 
gem for the modern age, cultivating 
critical praise and a passionate 
following. Unexpectedly, the show 
was abruptly canceled in 2004 with no 
evident plans for follow-up or closure. 
13 years later, Cartoon Network 
has renewed the show for one final 
season with its signature swordsman, 
infamous antagonist and mesmerizing 
dynamics returning in triumphant 
form at last.
50 years have passed in-universe 
since Samurai Jack’s (Phil LaMarr) 
last appearance, and the years have 
not been kind to him. His quest to destroy Aku (Greg Baldwin), master 
of darkness and the universe, has 
been long and trying. The temporal 
effects of being flung several hundred 
years into the future have prevented 
a mentally aged but physically 
youthful Jack from expiring before 
the completion of his quest. He is a 
haunted man; the inability to make 
meaningful progress in his task has 
torn at his soul and mind. Like Max 
Rockatansky, he endlessly questions 
how meaningful his goal actually is, 
his psyche tainted by unholy visions 
and a demonic doppelganger who 
picks at his will to live and fight. He 
is no longer the stoic hero he was a 
season ago.
What has not changed is Jack’s 
turbulent and wearying existence. 
Endless death-machines, bounty hunters and other threats have 
attempted to eliminate him, all falling 
far short of their intentions. A cult 
dedicated to Aku’s divinity seeks to 
change this. It has produced seven 
proficient and deadly assassins who 
match Jack in finesse and intuition. 
Murdering him would be the ultimate 
tribute to its god. Jack tears across the 
ruins of the Earth, barely evading the 
overwhelming huntresses. 
So progresses his tale. The beauty 
of “Samurai Jack” is in where its 
expertise lies. Its formula is simplistic; 
its execution is astounding. One is 
invested in every skirmish and 
harrowing predicament the hero 
becomes entangled in. Combat is a 
lethal dance of sleek movements and 
rapid slashes, banging blades and 
near inhuman feats. Enemies dash and leap between boulders and trees 
effortlessly, transforming their space 
into a series of unpredictable paths 
and vantage points. 
Ye t ,  t h e re  i s  m ore  t o  t h e  s t or y  t h an  
the thrill of crossing swords. “Samurai 
Jack” retains interest with mysterious 
landscapes, a momentous score and 
minimal dialogue. Great scale is given 
to people, places and things in the 
world, imbuing significant narrative 
relevance and personality to each. 
Sharp, borderless geometry adds 
texture and weight to the mystical 
surroundings. The combination 
of these features makes for both 
humorous and dramatic exposition. 
On the comic end of the spectrum 
is Jack’s battle with Scaramouch the 
Merciless, a camp android that boasts 
of his melodious lethality and induces mirth each time he scats or speaks. 
Representing the tense end is a scene 
in which Jack eludes the Daughters in 
a circular cemetery, a clear reference 
to a particular film, accompanied by 
a powerful rendition of “The Ecstasy 
of Gold. ” The overall complex is 
reminiscent of Spaghetti Westerns, 
framed through a lens of paradoxical 
dystopia and fantasy. 
Undoubtedly, “Samurai Jack” has 
been successfully adapted to a modern 
age. More than just a cartoon, it is a 
masterpiece that is irreproducible in 
its art and narrative, speaking as to 
how much can be accomplished with 
so little. 
—  Da vid  De  Leon
Staff Writer
Comedy and soul met hip thrusting and shimmying the night J. Tillman came to San Diego.Fat h e r J o h n  M i s t y
PHOTO COURTESY OF PITCHFORK
Location   Humphrey’s Concerts by the Bay
Date April 12, 2017 ACONCERT  REVIEW
Josh Tillman, an indie folk-rock 
singer-songwriter performing 
under the moniker “Father John 
Misty, ” is a pretty polarizing figure.  A 
subject of devout idolatry to some and  
discarded “hipster trash” to others, the 
eccentric provocateur has a history 
of attracting intense listener feedback. 
When listening to his offbeat ballads 
through headphones or watching him 
rant about our toxic entertainment cul -
ture on YouTube, it’s difficult to ascer -
tain the sincerity of his sentiments. 
Seeing him perform live, though, it’s 
impossible to doubt his authenticity. 
At Humphrey’s Concerts by the Bay 
on Wednesday night, Misty was com -
manding, charming and uninhibited, 
proving himself to be a true original 
with innate showmanship to boot. 
Misty opened with “Pure Comedy, ” 
the title track off his brand new album 
that tells the tragic, absurd tale of 
humanity, from its ill-fated birth to its 
bitter demise. Fog permeated the entire 
stage, and he solemnly approached the microphone with his hands in the 
pockets of a black knee-length coat.
The audience members were his 
eager disciples: They absorbed his 
denunciations of everything from 
political corruption to religion to 
prescription drug dependency with 
reverence and hollered their approval 
when Misty crooned about “sacred 
texts written by woman-hating 
epileptics. ” The slow-building chord 
progression swelled and finally gave 
way to an instrumental break that 
Misty welcomed with open arms, 
erupting into a frolicsome, undulating 
groove-dance. Snapping his fingers and 
pursing his lips, gyrating and whole-
body-rocking, he appeared totally 
free while managing to maintain a 
captivating regality under blue lights. 
The foreboding “Total 
Entertainment Forever” got the 
audience dancing and singing along 
before Misty cast a somber spell 
during a fervid rendition of “Things 
It Would Have Been Helpful to Know 
Before the Revolution. ” In “Birdie, ” the eerie dissonance and cadences of 
his unaffected vocals offset the song’s 
underlying optimism as Misty leaned 
heavily against a mic stand that looked 
dangerously close to slipping out from 
underneath him.
“I Love Y ou, Honeybear” featured 
pulsing red lights, an unleashed and 
impressively limber Misty sinking to 
his knees and tenderly petting the 
head of a first-row fan and smooth, 
clear vocals. A highlight of the night 
occurred when Misty finally indulged 
fans that had been screaming out 
for “Nancy!” and played fan-favorite 
“Nancy from Now On. ” Marked by his 
music’s signature duality of danceable 
instrumentation and lamentable lyrics, 
the song aroused vocal and physical 
audience participation. Misty tucked 
a pink flower behind his ear and 
swayed freely as he recounted his grim 
misfortunes.
Vocally, Misty performed even 
better than on his albums: His pitch 
was impeccable throughout and 
his sound was completely pure. Transitions were aided by a stagehand 
that swiftly changed Misty’s guitars 
between songs, and the set flowed 
smoothly, apart from one grandiose, 
albeit unorthodox, fan offering.
Just after the audience had fallen 
silent in preparation for the reflective, 
“I Went to the Store One Day, ” chaos 
ensued. An inebriated concertgoer 
came barreling through the audience 
to publicly relieve himself, provoking 
cries of shock and outrage. With an 
elevated and unobstructed view of the 
situation, Father John Misty stopped 
playing and calmly requested security 
before diagnosing the case as “ecstasy, 
best case scenario. ” He then reeled in 
a still buzzing audience and restarted 
the song, delivering a touching ode 
to the birth of his great romance 
with featherlight vocals and gentle 
fingerpicking.
Misty’s oscillations between satire 
and sincerity constitute the basis of 
his appeal and individuality as an 
artist. His comedic idiosyncrasies 
and self-indulgent flamboyance on stage carried no traces of phoniness 
and complimented his heavy subject 
matter naturally. Father John Misty 
is not the first artist to inform us 
of the world’s fatal problems or that 
the human race is self-destructive, but 
his unique amalgamation of irony, 
narrative, earnestness, self-deprecation 
and buttery-smooth vocals is a potent 
one.
Misty closed with his hit “Real Love 
Baby. ” He defended the crowd-pleas -
ing,  pop-infused schmaltz with a cryp -
tic explanation: “The meaning behind 
this song is actually not quite what you 
think … it’s far weirder. ” With intrigue 
hanging in the air, he and his audience 
proceeded to softly rock to a tune 
that, like the man himself, is undeni -
ably enchanting and, apparently, much 
more than meets the eye.
— Ma y a  Kleiman
Staff Writer10                                                        T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Lifestyle’s How To:
Recover from Sun God
Compiled by Lifestyle Staff
Ah, Sun God. While the event doesn’t really start until the afternoon, many start the 
… ahem, “festivities” in the morning and continue throughout the day and night, 
heading to social gatherings for further intoxication once Sun God has ended. 
With the aftermath of Sun God’s carefree sentiment immediately followed by week five’s 
brutality, how does one transition out of music into midterm seamlessly? And for some, 
Sun God was preceded by Coachella or replaced by Stagecoach, so in this manic music 
festival mayhem, it is relatively easy to get swept away in a rave, leaving responsibilities at the 
shoreline of campus. What’s one to do? Read on for some tips and tricks Lifestyle has to help 
recover from the swell of the rave.
Cover the Bases — Make sure to eat, sleep, repeat. Following what Magnetic Magazine 
calls “an immersive festival experience, ” the body is bound to feel burdened from the heat, 
bouncing from stage to stage and the all of the fist-pumping, legs-jumping to the beat of DJ 
Manila Killa. 
tFuel a body that has danced through the weekend similarly to how one might follow 
up a workout with some protein. Make sure to have some protein-filled meals post-
music festival. Some chicken McNuggets, bacon-wrapped anything and a protein 
bar is not recommended per se, but some beans, lentils or ground turkey should do 
the trick. 
tSun God unfortunately throws UC San Diego from one extreme to the other. From 
high energy to high stress, the body does not get much rest in between. While there 
are midterms that come up on Monday, make sure that study time lost listening to 
Bad Suns is not compensated by sacrificing sleep. Here’s to hoping Sunday was filled 
with rest; but if not, catch a nap at The Zone, Women’s Center or dorm between class. 
Above all else, do not rely on energy drinks — nap away natural fatigue. 
tHeal with hydration. Standing under the sun and dancing for hours leaves the body 
pretty dehydrated. So do not forget to fill up the Nalgene with everyone’s favorite 
chemical compound, water. 
Save the Skin — Glitter, liquid liner, Kim Kardashian level bronzer and a sunburn all call 
for a little dermal love and care. tAt a music festival, SPF is often left behind in a mad rush to pack the fanny pack. 
Whether or not a sunburn comes at the cost of a dancing along to ScHoolboy Q, 
treat arms and legs with some aloe or the typical blogger favorite, Hawaiian Tropic 
After Sun lotion, for a skin refresher and cool-down. If there isn’t time to run to CVS, 
try applying some potato onto the skin — this carb-filled starch is known to soothe.
tShower. Please. 
tA face full of makeup, glitter, and, unfortunately, sweat, that has been exposed to the 
elements could use a little scrub and salvation. Try St. Ive’s Apricot Scrub or DIY an 
oatmeal face mask to clear those pores and soothe the skin.
tW alking around for five hours isn’t too fun for those feet. Boil some water, add some 
Epsom salt, and soak for around 15 minutes to help those tired soles. Before going 
to bed, try putting a pillow under those toes, in the morning, they will be thankful. 
Mindful Mentality — Music festivals are not just physically exhausting, but mentally too. 
Particularly when there’s a drastic turnaround of music sandwiched between midterms and 
papers. 
tTry some yoga to stretch out muscles that may have danced a little too hard or taken 
a toll on the Slip ‘n’ Slide. Practice breathing to re-enter the week with Y outube’s Y oga 
With Adriene, or just sit in silence for a bit. 
tOr perhaps to “sit in silence, ” is a touch too introverted for the people-person. Have 
breakfast or take a walk with a friend or two before getting thrown back into Geisel. 
The Scripps Coastal Reserve is an especially good place to visit — a mere five-minute 
walk from campus can take anyone out of the studying sphere and into the land of 
blooming coastal sunflowers and blue waves. 
tAvoid loud noises. Kind of a given, but ears will probably be ringing for at least a 
few hours after the festival, on top of being easily irritable given the lack of sleep 
and exhaustion. Choose to study in a quiet place to focus on the work and not get 
sidetracked by a Netflix-watching roommate. 
tThe next few days are bound to be stressful; try making a to do list. Remembering 
what’s coming up and penciling in some time to rest could be helpful. 
Have any tips you want to share? Email us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org! ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZLIFESTYLE                      T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
20%
Student
Discount
With a valid student ID, get 20% off 
your entire purchase every 
Wednesday . 
6830 La Jolla Blvd, Ste 101 
La Jolla - CA 92037   Tel:(858)291-8071
www.laclochetteducoin.com  La Clochette du Coin
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.eduSun God Festival is the one time per 
year when UC San Diego students 
get to reverse their "socially dead" 
reputation, and this year, we succeeded. 
I’m a freshman, so this was my first 
Sun God. To be honest, I wasn't really 
expecting much. It wasn't really hyped up 
much by any of the upperclassmen I knew, 
so I didn't think it was going to be a big 
deal. When the lineup came out, I wasn't 
very familiar with very many of the acts. 
I knew “Location, ” so I looked up Khalid's 
other songs and ended up falling in love 
with his album, “ American Teen, ” so he was 
the one I was most excited to see. In the 
days leading up to Sun God, I attempted to 
familiarize myself with the other artists, but 
nothing really stuck. 
On the day of, I ended up staying 
for the entirety of Bad Suns' set. Despite 
not knowing any of their songs, I was 
immediately attracted to their vibe, which 
reminded me of one of my favorite bands, 
The 1975. I especially liked “We Move Like 
the Ocean” and “Transpose. ” And of course, Khalid was as great as 
I expected him to be. It’s crazy to think 
he’s only 19, but that also means that he 
resonates with us students more, and I 
think that’s what set him apart from the 
other artists there. He was just a kid having 
fun like the rest of us, and his infectious 
energy flowed out into the crowd. 
There was surprisingly a lot to do 
besides the music. The water slide was 
probably the biggest attraction, but the 
flowers from the KIND bar booth were 
a really nice touch to every Instagram 
picture. I also wasn’t expecting there to 
be that much free food — granted, there 
wasn’t that much, but I really needed that 
cold Y erba Mate around 2:30 when the heat 
exhaustion was starting to get to me.  
I was also very impressed with the 
organization. At some events hosted by 
A.S. Concerts & Events I feel like things are 
sometimes chaotic and all over the place, 
but at Sun God, the layout of everything 
was intuitive and everything seemed to be 
running smoothly, except for the short 10 minutes when the water slide had no water. 
One thing I maybe didn’t predict was 
the sweat. It was really, really hot. I became 
very thankful I opted for a light-colored 
tank top instead of the black shirt I was 
planning on wearing when I was in the 
middle of Khalid’s audience, surrounded 
by other sweaty bodies. I also didn’t predict 
having to deal with intoxicated festival-
goers, especially the ones who are not 
afraid to get really close and personal 
with you. Music festivals are not for the 
claustrophobic. 
All in all, I enjoyed my first Sun God, 
even if my feet felt like they were going 
to fall off by the end of the day. I felt like 
a UCSD community existed, and it was 
really great to see so many people come out 
for one event. A lot of the time I feel like 
we’re divided, whether it’s by college or by 
major, but when you and the person next to 
you are sharing this mutual enjoyment for 
music, none of that really matters. 
Peace out, SGF. See you next year. All Hail the Sun God
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF ALICE LEE
PHOTO COURTESY OF TARA ALICE LEE12                                                        T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
ASCE.UCS D.EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477MAY 18 | 3-6PM
MATTHEWS QUAD
FREE FOR
UNDERGRADSCONSTRUCT-A-PUP
DIY STUFFED DOGS
SocialPowerHourSocial
Power
Hour
FIRST C OME,  FIRST SERVEd
FIRST C OME, FIRST SERVEd
WH EN AND WHE REWH EN AND WH ERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PM
FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!
MA4
4It’s 12:11 a.m. and the remnants of Khalid’s performance still remain in my auditory cortex, 
verses from “8TEEN” permeating my mind. Perhaps even hitting a little too close to home at the 
declaration that he “still live[s] with [his] parents. ” 
But never mind the potential of an existential crisis this line is about to give me.
Sun God Festival 2017 was, personally, one downplayed from the start, unanticipated 
throughout the day and relatively laid back for the three hours spent at RIMAC Field. Like the 
true UC San Diego student I am, the morning was not spent pre-gaming, but shamefully working 
through a midterm study guide. Couple the looming responsibilities of week five with the need 
to commute from off-campus housing, Sun God was not necessarily a number one priority. The 
days leading up to the event were filled with statements ranging along the lines of “Hell yeah 
I’m going, ” to “I registered just in case, ” or even the “I have a chemistry midterm and I want to 
go to bed afterward, ” so there was no consistent encouragement or universal excitement for Sun 
God this year. It didn’t help that upon arrival, the line still snaked all the way toward Peterson 
Hall around 4 p.m., with the sun boasting its heat on the poor souls with their empty Contigo 
water bottles.  
In my experience, Sun God hasn’t had much of a track record with heat — freshman year, it 
took on a “Cloud God” persona and the previous year’s spring weather was much more bearable. 
But this year, even the free Vita Coco water wasn’t enough to hold us over. Granted, the amount 
of bodies dancing and vibin’ their way to ScHoolboy Q added to the amount of heat settling 
around us, but nonetheless, this created an unusually spirited atmosphere at UCSD we can only 
get this one time of year. Fueled by ScHoolboy Q’s explicit declaration denouncing San Diego 
State University, moshpits and collective cheers from the crowd brought about the only school 
pride I had seen all year. Not to mention the aggregate walking back and forth between the two 
stages that seemed like a more joyful metaphor of the collective trudge up and down Library 
Walk.
Performance wise, the field seemingly split in two — the main stage being more lively under 
the watch of DJ Mustard and the north stage chillin’ to the tunes of Khalid. Subsequently, festival 
goers would grab a Rockstar or two on their way toward the main stage, almost as if ritualistically 
preparing for a more stimulating atmosphere, just a few feet away. 
By the end of the event, feet were tired, hair was up and some food was desperately needed, 
but overall, Sun God 2017 did not disappoint. Thinking back to last year’s experience and the 
only recollection being that of Miguel’s all white ensemble, this year’s time spent at Sun God was 
relatively worth the 45-minute wait and occasional sweat-storm. Sun God Round Deux
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 1 - MAY 72017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 5.01WED5.03FRIDAY 5.05  • 8pm
THU5.04
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE5.02
10am
GRAD FAIR - UCSD BOOKSTORE
Now's the time to purchase your cap & gown, or 
bundle and save with a Triton Grad Pack. Find 
out about diploma frames, class rings, grad 
announcements, exclusive sales, senior portraits, 
academic discounts on Apple computers, 
discounts and more. Contact: 
dfroehlich@ucsd.edu 
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
SOCIAL JUSTICE EDUCATORS 
PRESENT: REPRODUCTIVE 
JUSTICE - CROSS-CULTURAL 
CENTER
Interactive and instructional workshop covering 
reproductive rights and movements
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu 
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
2:30pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
COMFORT MOVIE SCREENING - 
THE LOFT
A late-night courier (Chris Dinh) agrees to pick 
up the feisty daughter (Julie Zhan) of an 
important client, and a romance blossoms 
between them as they explore LA's food scene. 
Don't miss this FREE screening of Comfort! Also, 
stick around for a Q&A discussion with Julie Zhan 
and Chris Dinh after the movie! FREE for UCSD 
Students w/ID Doors: 6:30PM Movie: 7PM Q&A 
with Julie and Chris: 9PM Trailer: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iFbXVr_9lSU
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS: 
THOMAS MEADOWCROFT AND 
ANTHONY BURR - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
The Department of Music's Wednesdays@7 
concert series continues with a performance by 
guest composer Thomas Meadowcroft and 
Associate Professor Anthony Burr. The program 
consists of two recent pieces written for a 
chamber ensemble (The Great Knot and Medieval 
Rococo) and one new work for pedal steel guitar 
and electronics. The concert will conclude with 
Burr (pedal steel guitar) and Meadowcroft 
(electronics) sharing the stage to perform 
Meadowcroft's latest work. Contact: 
mroos@ucsd.edu 10am
YOGA ZONE: HATHA STRETCH - THE 
ZONE
Come to this deep stretch class and let go. Using 
props like blocks, straps, and yoga therapy balls, 
this class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body. Led by FitLife instructor Nadine, this free 
program is on first come, first serve basis. All 
materials including yoga mats are provided. 
Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
11am
ONE BUTTON STUDIO OPEN HOUSE 
- ONE BUTTON STUDIO, PC EAST
Discover how you can use the studio to practice 
your speeches, presentations, and interviews! 
Check out the green screen and the video recording 
capabilities. During this event, you will stop by and 
record a 30 second video on why it is important for 
students to develop leadership skills for 1 iLead 
stamp. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://ilead.ucsd.edu
12pm
FILM SCREENING: CHICANO PARK - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Join us for a screening of the documentary Chicano 
Park. Open to the public. Refreshments will be 
served. Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu 
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGAN NO 
MEATBALL - THE ZONE
Join us as we learn to make vegan meatballs! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu10am
GRAD FAIR - UCSD BOOKSTORE
Now's the time to purchase your cap & gown, or 
bundle and save with a Triton Grad Pack. Find out 
about diploma frames, class rings, grad 
announcements, exclusive sales, senior portraits, 
academic discounts on Apple computers, 
discounts and more. Contact: 
dfroehlich@ucsd.edu 
11am
ART & SOUL: SELF-CARE KITS 
WORKSHOP WITH CAPS - THE 
ZONE
To kick off Mental Health Awareness Month, we 
will be making self-care kits! Workshops are free; 
all supplies and materials provided. Space is 
limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from the 
R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
5:30pm
KNOW YOUR RIGHTS - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, 
COMUNIDAD
Get information on the latest immigration news. 
Presented by Ready Now San Diego. Contact: 
info@readynowsandiego.org 858-534-9689
7pm
GEORGE R. R. MARTIN IN 
CONVERSATION WITH KIM 
STANLEY ROBINSON - PRICE 
CENTER WEST BALLROOM
The Arthur C. Clarke Center for Human 
Imagination will present an evening on the craft 
of writing science fiction and fantasy with George 
R. R. Martin ("A Song of Ice and Fire," adapted for 
television as Game of Thrones, the Wild Card 
series) in conversation with Kim Stanley Robinson 
(New York 2140, the Mars trilogy). Shelley Streeby, 
faculty director of the Clarion Workshop, will 
moderate. All proceeds will support the Clarion 
Science Fiction and Fantasy Writersâ    Workshop 
at UC San Diego, the oldest and most highly 
regarded training ground for new science fiction 
and fantasy authors. Contact: 
info@imagination.ucsd.edu 10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
A practice to help increase focus and 
concentration, reduce stress and gain a sense of 
well-being. Whether or not you have ever 
meditated, you may enjoy this sampling of 
techniques as they guide you to the blissful 
silence behind thoughts. Seated, standing, lying 
down and moving techniques may be covered. 
Suitable for all levels of experience. All classes 
with Vou Athens. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
BREAKING OUT OF THE FOOD 
CHAINS - COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Join us for an interfaith dialogue as we discuss 
our lived experiences and spiritual journeys. Come 
prepared to learn from others, ask questions, and 
honor our shared humanity. Open to all faith and 
non-faith backgrounds. Full attendance at this 
workshop will grant you 2 stamps. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu Website: http://ilead.ucsd.edu
5pm
BREAKING OUT OF THE FOOD 
CHAINS - COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Join us as we consider the importance of access 
and security to healthy and sustainable food. 
Learn about the impacts of environmental racism 
and food deserts. Resources around UCSD and the 
San Diego community will be presented. Contact: 
gmiramon@ucsd.eduFRI5.05
5:30pm
ENTREPRENEURS' TOOLKIT: 
FOUL-UP FRIDAYS - ROTH 
AUDITORIUM, SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM FOR REGENERATIVE 
MEDICINE
Join us to hear from seasoned entrepreneurs who 
have experienced both failure and success, as they 
share their story on how they flipped the script and 
lessons they learned. Contact: invent@ucsd.edu
8pm
ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET AT 
ARTPOWER - DEPT OF MUSIC'S 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
UCSD Student: $9 Back by popular demand, the 
witty, buoyant, and widely attentive  (The Gazette, 
Montreal) St. Lawrence String Quartet has 
developed an undisputed reputation as a truly 
world-class chamber ensemble.
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Word with dash or happy
5. Voting-machine lists
11. R.M.N. ’s predecessor
14. Sport with a wooden ball
15. March event
16. Choler
17. Takes one’s breath away
18. Military band?
19. “Out!” from an Okie
20. Portable shade?
23. Patronized, as a diner
26. School address abbr.
27. Extreme prefix
28. Loud welcome?
31. Beach brief
32. ___ Luis Obispo
33. It has shoulders but no head
37. PC key
38. Second of all?
40. Part of a matching set, sometimes
42. Song syllable
43. Part of CBS or DOS
45. Bank alternative, briefly
47. Scented sample
49. Podunk, proverbially?
52. Battle of 1836
55. Compass dir.
56. “Oui” and “si”
57. Gambler’s choice
60. Electronics brand
61. Military command
62. Worshipper’s locale, sometimes
66. Pained reactions
67. Make hermetic
68. Thespian’s gig
69. Command to Benji
70. Hunt and Hayes
71. Barbershop jobDown
1. Restorative retreat
2. Word with down or key
3. Schooner’s cargo, perhaps
4. It’s stuck in a corner
5. Bridge
6. Big T-shirts
7. Battle groups
8. Actress Bankhead
9. Pulitzer-winning biographer Leon
10. Embark, as on a journey
11. Feathery
12. Prickly plant
13. Beetle alternative
21. Chopin piece
22. NY Met, for example
23. Beasts of burden
24. Intoxicated
25. Boardroom VIPs
29. Stars that brighten then fade
30. College class hours
34. Preminger and Klemperer
35. “___ there yet?”
36. Mends
39. Heavenly
41. “Later”
44. Big volume
46. Carter’s running mate
48. “Maggie May” singer Rod
50. What the driver carries?
51. What the planet Krypton orbited
52. Spherical hairdos
53. Chinese fruit
54. Nautical “Halt!”
58. Suits to ___
59. Agts.
63. The “F” in FYI
64. Boxing winner in Zaire, 1974
65. “The One I Love” group
 62 Sweltering
 63 Black gooAUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont 
- CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. 
Listing ID: 306503328 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil 
Change Special San Diego $14.95* - 
Expires - GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing 
ID: 307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take pho -
tos. Including a tripod and Sony camera 
bag. Both bought separately. Text/call, 
but prefer text because I work nights. 
Listing ID: 306503231 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp 
WiFi & Bluetooth control view share. 
FIRM PRICE $300. Listing ID: 304329629 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 
plus lights with shutters and mounts. All 
three are working and are in attractive 
condition. They come with a pelican 
case and ballast. They all have bulbs 
and some lighting accessories. Listing 
ID: 306503233 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 
4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass 
top gold iron coffee table and match -
ing end tables. Listing ID: 306914416 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FREE Electric Cement Mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In 
working condition but note wheels are 
broken.Pick up from DeakinLast Edited 
Condition Used... Pictures and contact 
information on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 310101715 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
W\RXUYLV
*(7$)5((
4827(72'$<LRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
responded not too long after 
with their own to tie the game 
1–1. That one goal was the sole 
goal for Sonoma. The period 
ended 4–1.
Within 95 seconds of the 
second period the Tritons 
already put up two goals, to 
take the lead to 6–1. Again, the 
Seawolves only scored one goal 
that period, putting the score 
at 7–2. 
Though Sonoma State managed to score two goals 
during the third period — the 
most they scored in a given 
period — it was not enough to 
match the Tritons. The period 
ended with a score of 12–4.
In the fourth period, it 
seemed like the Seawolves just 
stopped trying, as they could 
not manage to get the ball into 
the net, scoring zero points in 
the final period. The Tritons 
increased their lead to end the 
game 15–4. 
Boyer scored six of the Tritons’ 15 goals while Gallagher made 
seven saves. The Seawolves’ 
goalie had 12. 
Wiesler earned the WWPA 
Tournament MVP Title and All-
American First Team status. Her 
teammate, Lani Tittle earned 
Second Team honors.
The Tritons’ wins earned 
them a spot at the NCAA 
Championships in Indianapolis 
the weekend of May 12. 
After competing in the 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Championships 
on Monday and Tuesday, the 
UC San Diego men’s golf team’s 
season has come to an end with 
a bit of a thud. After finishing 
ninth overall on both days, the 
Tritons were unable to advance 
to proceed in the tournament. 
Junior Mateusz Kucz led 
the Tritons throughout the 
tournament with a total score 
of 226 (+13), tying him for 20th 
place overall, while freshman 
Adam Navigato finished tied for 
29th overall with a total score of 
229 (+16).“We were right in there in 
the first round, and then we had 
the worst round of our season, ” 
UCSD head coach Jim Ragan 
told the Athletics Department 
after the tournament. “Overall it 
was a pretty disappointing week 
for us. ”  
At the conclusion of the three 
rounds of play, Chico State held 
on to place first in all three 
events, with a total scoreline of 
291–290–302 (+31), which was 
a far cry from UCSD’s 302–318–
311 (+79) statline. 
UCSD Finishes 
Season with a ThudUC San Diego Routed Sonoma State 15–4 Enroute to 
the Team’s Sixth Conference Title in Seven Years.
Tritons had their worst round of the 
season enroute to ninth-place finish.MEN'S  GOLF
Alex  Wu  ril014@ucsd.eduRosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd.eduBY  A l e x  W U
Sports editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
from W. WATER POLO , page 16
PHOTO BY OF MEGAN LEE // UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 1, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego softball team defeated Stanislaus 
State in a four-game series sweep this past week. 
The team improved to 30–22 overall and 21–19 in 
California Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
Game 1
UCSD defeated Stanislaus State in the first game with 
a single run. In the second inning, junior catcher Lauren 
Sanders hit a homerun into left field to give the Tritons the 
lead and ultimately the win. 
Game 2
The Tritons overcame the Warriors in a 13-inning game 
9–7. UCSD burst into the second game with three runs in the 
first inning, one apiece in the second and third and two in the 
fourth inning. Stanislaus State went scoreless through the first 
three innings; however, the W arriors came back in the game 
in the fourth, where they made seven runs to tie the game 7–7. 
The game stretched on for extra innings into the 13th inning 
when two Tritons secured runs to give the team a 9–7 victory. 
Game 3
UCSD defeated Stanislaus State in the third game by five 
runs, 12–7. Both teams scored their first three runs in the 
third inning. A very successful eight-run fifth inning gave the 
Tritons a hefty 11–3 lead. The W arriors never gave up, scoring 
a single run in the fifth inning, two in the sixth and one in the 
seventh. Their efforts, however, were not enough to overcome 
the tremendous lead the Tritons developed in the fifth inning. 
UCSD finished the game with one final run by sophomore 
shortstop Maddy Lewis. 
Game 4
Stanislaus State scored the first run in the fourth game 
in the first inning. In the fourth inning, UCSD sophomore 
outfielder Caitlyn Weisner had a run-batted-in double to put 
the Tritons on the scoreboard. UCSD pulled ahead in the 
fifth with an RBI-double by junior outfielder Kelsi Maday 
that scored freshman outfielder Danielle Stedman and junior 
left-fielder Kendall Baker. The Tritons sealed the game in 
the seventh inning when Weisner hit a homerun for an 
RBI-triple. Stanislaus State scored a single run in the seventh 
inning to conclude the game 7–3. 
This series against Stanislaus State is likely the last series 
of the season for the Tritons. They were already eliminated 
from CCAA tournament contention and stand at 10th in the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association West Region poll and 
needed to be in the top eight to participate in the post-season 
tournament. Softball
Too Little, 
Too Late
UCSD closed out the regular 
season with a series sweep 
but only after a playoff berth 
was out of reach
by Richard Lu // Senior Staff Writer
The women’s water polo team had a winning weekend at the 
Western Water Polo Association Championship in Geneva, 
Ohio, earning the tournament. The No. 18 top-seeded Tritons 
beat the No. 4 seed Cal State Monterey Bay on Saturday, 20–8. 
Yesterday, the Tritons eliminated No. 3 seed Sonoma State 15–4. The 
Tritons are now 19–14 overall and 3–0 in the WWPA. UC San Diego 
has now won the Tournament five years in a row. 
UCSD vs. CSU Monterey Bay
The Tritons got an early lead in the first period, with senior Lani 
Tittle’s goal. About a minute later, senior Lauren scored two more goals 
to put the Tritons up 3–0. The Otters responded with their own goal, 
but the Tritons came back with another to put the score at 4–1. The 
first period ended 6–2 in favor of the Tritons.
In the second period, the Tritons scored five in a row without a 
response from the Otters to increase their lead 11–2. After this run, the Otters scored two goals but were not able to match the Tritons’ 
dominance.
The Otters could not match the Tritons’ four goals in the third 
period — the fewest the Tritons scored in a period — and only scored 
two goals again. The period ended at 15–6. 
Once again, the Otters only mustered two goals in the final eight-
minute period. UC San Diego scored five goals, winning the game 
20–8. 
Freshman goalie Reilly Gallagher had a solid game, with 12 saves. 
Senior Alexis Wieseler led in goals scored with five.
UCSD vs. Sonoma State
Sonoma State earned its spot in the final matchup against UCSD on 
Saturday by beating No. 2 seed Cal State East Bay 7–6.
Wieseler gave the Tritons their first goal. However, the Seawolves 
SeeW. WATER POLO  page 15W. W a ter  polo
Tritons Win Fifth 
Straight WWPA 
Title
by Rosina Garcia // Co- Editor in ChiefPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSVS Azusa Pacfic
AT CCAA Championships
AT Cal State San Bernardino
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS Cal State San Bernardino5/1
5/4
5/4
5/6
5/6UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES1 PM 
TBA
3 PM 
1 PM 
4:30 PMM. Tennis
Track & Field
Baseball
Baseball
Baseball