UC San Diego is offering money 
to students who wish to cancel their 
housing contract and move off-campus in an attempt to remedy a massive gap in on-campus housing 
availability and the number of 
transfer students who planned to live on-campus.
UCSD accepted too many 
transfer students for the 2017–2018 academic year, causing hundreds of transfer students to live in off-campus housing that was meant to be demolished while the university resolves the issue. 
The University sent out an 
email Sunday informing students 
who wish to cancel their housing 
contracts of an opportunity UCSD 
is offering: a one-time incentive of 
up to $4,500 dollars if accepted by 
Oct. 20 and moved out by Oct. 27, 
or $4,000 if canceled after Oct. 20.“Dear Student, with more 
students needing housing than available space on campus, we are offering to ‘buy’ space from students currently living with us on campus this school year, ” according 
to Housing Dining Hospitality. 
“We’re writing to offer you a very 
special one-time incentive package 
of $4,000 or $4,500. ”
If students take the money, it VOLUME 51, ISSUE 3  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 16, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE 
WEEKENDER
This week, crack down on the 
job search, or, if you’re in the 
mood to see what the stars say, 
check out the ﬁrst installment 
of our horoscope column, and 
explore cultural identity with 
Tales of a Philippine Life.
PUERTO  RICO
WOMEN'S  SOCCERMeasuring  Lives  in  money
Tritons  Win  in  2OTOPINION,  Page   4
sports,  Page  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“For those in the United 
States who do not have the fortune of getting a living donor, a long and uncertain future of dialysis and dete-riorating health often lies ahead. The organ shortage we have is self-inflicted, and thus solvable.”
SUZANNE GOLSHANARA
ECONOMIZE IT: 
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
IN BRIEF ........................ .2
PUERTO RICO...................4
ATYPICAL ACADEMIC....... 6
CROSSWORD ................ 14
MEN’S WATER POLO ..... 15LIFESTYLE,  PAGE  8
MONDAY
H 85 L 65TUESDAY
H 83 L 63
WEDNESDAY    
H 80 L 63THURSDAY
 H 76 L 64
Gov. Brown Signs 
Bill Protecting UC Immigrants CALIFORNIA
The bill offers a sense of security 
for immigrant students, faculty, 
and workers across the UC, CSU, 
and community college systems. 
Governor Jerry Brown signed 
earlier this month a bill that would 
protect the interest and rights of 
immigrant students seeking to attain 
higher education. The legislation not 
only applies to students attending 
University of California schools, but 
also California State Institutions as 
well as community colleges. 
The legislation passed regards 
the actions that are to be taken by 
the designated California institution 
in the case that an immigration 
officer were to step on campus to execute a “federal immigration order” . 
“...advise all students, faculty, 
and staff to notify the office of the 
chancellor or president, or his or 
her designee, as soon as possible, if he or she is advised that an immigration officer, as defined, is expected to enter, or has entered, the campus to execute a federal immigration order, ” stated the bill on the California legislature website.
While the legislation is mainly 
geared towards immigrant students, it also protects the interests of UC San Diego staff and faculty. 
“The bill would add to the 
Donahoe Higher Education Act provisions that would require the Trustees of the California State University, the governing boards 
of community college districts, 
and independent institutions of higher education that are qualifying institutions for purposes of the Cal Grant Program, and would request the regents, to the fullest extent consistent with state and federal law, to: refrain from disclosing personal information concerning students, faculty, and staff, except under 
specified circumstances, ” stated the 
bill.
In the case that a student, faculty, 
or staff member has already been detained by an officer, it is the duty of the institution to then reach out to that person’s emergency contact to notify them of their detainment as a result of them federal immigration 
order. 
If under the circumstances 
that an undocumented student 
is detained or deported or in any other matter that prevents them from attending their appropriate university or institution, then their attending college would make 
reasonable efforts to aid and support 
them so that they may later return.
“...the college or university 
shall make all reasonable efforts to assist the student in retaining any eligibility for financial aid, fellowship stipends, exemption from Alt-Right Group Hangs Controversial Banners  
Identity Evropa, a white supremacist “alt-
right” group, hung two controversial banners 
from the roof of Price Center last week. This 
is not the first time the group has posted signs, 
stickers, or vandalized property on campus, and 
while students bring this to the attention of faculty and UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla, the group  continues to post on school 
property.
The two banners hung from the roof of the 
Price Center and Bookstore on Oct. 2. One of the 
signs read, “No Amnesty! End DACA!” and the 
other read, “Carry on, Citizen, THERE IS NO 
BANNER HERE. ” Both banners violated UCSD’s campus posting policies and were removed once they were seen by campus faculty.
In a statement forwarded to the UCSD 
Guardian by NBC 7, Interim Senior Director of Strategic Communications Laura Margoni announced that the university is looking into the 
banners.
“The incident is currently under investigation, ” 
Margoni said. “These actions are hurtful to 
many and counter to UC San Diego’s values and Principles of Community. We encourage students, faculty, and staff to report incidents such as these so that they can be immediately investigated by the appropriate campus authorities. ”
However, a graduate student, who wishes to 
remain anonymous due to past harassment, told 
the Guardian he has reached out to the police, Interim Director of the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination Carol Rogers, 
and Khosla, but not much has been done.
“ Almost a year ago, in September of 2016, I 
contacted the OPHD regarding racist vandalism that had occurred across campus. A white supremacist group, Identity Evropa, had put racist and fascist stickers on light poles, walls, 
announcement boards, etc., in a circuit stretching 
from Warren Lecture Hall up to the Sun God 
statue, ” the student said in an email to Khosla.
“The group involved in the UCSD vandalism, 
Identity Evropa, and its leader Nathan Damigo were intimately involved in organizing the terrorism in Charlottesville,” the student continued. “When you had an actual opportunity to make the smallest effort to tackle fascist organizing on campus, your administration did nothing, despite evidence of a crime, despite the history of right-wing intimidation on this 
campus, and despite the danger that fascist and 
white supremacist groups pose to our faculty, staff and students. ”
However, as the student kept on bringing up 
this issue, the response from Rogers was “the first amendment protects some speech that we may find offensive. ”
In response to the Price Center postings, 
UCSD and UC Santa Barbara Alumni decided to take matters into their own hands by walking 
around campus with a sign saying “Eat S--- By kevin pichinte  staff writerCAMP US
HDH hopes to resolve overcrowding issues and move other transfer students into the Village.CAMPUS
BY KEVIN PICHINTE 
STAFF WRITER
BY ARMONIE MENDEZ
EDITORIAL ASSISTant
UCSD Pays Transfer Students to Move Off  Campus 
A UCSD worker participates in a demonstration by American Federation for State, County and Municipal Employees.
Photo by Mihir Desai // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
See IMMIGRATION,  page 3See TRANSFER HOUSING , page 3See IDENTITY EVROPA , page 3
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
COOL CAT By Alex Lee
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. “Alexa - hit the Dungeon lights”.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org  
managing@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Aarthi Venkat
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Armonie Mendez, Tina Chen 
Members of the SoCal Healthcare 
Coalition and their supporters rallied 
for healthcare in front of Club Med on 
Thursday. The marchers held dozens 
of posters provided by SCHCC with 
statements in favor of affordable 
health care, including “Healthcare NOT Wealthcare, ” “Protect Our Kids, ” 
“Issa Step Up!” and wore T-shirts 
reading “Health Care Voter” to keep 
the rally’s message direct and simple. 
The purpose of the demonstration 
was to reach out to U.S. Representative Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) who represents 
UC San Diego and other parts of 
San Diego. The marchers wanted to 
make Issa aware of what their stance is 
regarding President Trump’s executive 
order to push Americans into “junk” 
insurance plans and cut funds for 
healthcare, which was officially 
announced that same morning. 
In response to Issa’s proposition 
to cut funding for healthcare by up 
to $74 billion, one of the questions 
the marchers wanted to ask was how 
people will be able to secure their 
financial futures if healthcare is not 
made to be affordable. Eric Dean, a Navy veteran, shared 
his story with the UCSD Guardian of 
a time when he was attacked on the 
street by a group of men and needed to 
get five stitches for his eye injury, but 
the cost of those five stitches almost 
left him bankrupt. Dean emphasized 
how his situation is something that 
could have happened to anyone; it is 
not always something that people can 
control, and the violence of strangers 
in the world should not affect his 
financial future to the point of 
bankruptcy. 
The spokespeople at the rally stated 
that the decision against affordable healthcare was cause for “emergency 
action, ” because the executive order 
by Trump is something that affects 
people’s healthcare nationwide. 
They noted that they are demanding 
protection for their healthcare and 
wanted to organize an event that 
could bring people together to show 
that they are concerned about their 
healthcare. 
The rally lasted approximately one 
hour and was peaceful throughout.Local Organization Holds Healthcare Rally in Front of  Club MedIN BRIEF
BY LORENZA ESPINOZA
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
lorenza espinoza  loe001@ucsd.eduThe demonstration was intended to gain the attention of Congressman Darrell Issa, who called for healthcare funding cuts.
UC San Diego’s Hillel organization 
has had a longstanding battle with 
La Jolla residents regarding their 
proposal of the construction of 
a formal Hillel center to support UCSD’s Jewish student population. 
However, San Diego City Council has 
finally approved the project, allowing 
the long-awaited center to start 
construction.The center, first proposed almost 
seventeen years ago, would reside in 
a vacant lot in the corner of La Jolla 
Village Drive and Torrey Pines Road. 
Residents in the area where quite opposed to the idea, as they argued it 
would only bring more traffic and get rid of parking spaces that are much 
needed. 
While some residents are also 
advocates for the Hillel, many of 
them dislike the project because of its destined location, arguing that the center would seem more justified in a commercial location rather than a residential area. 
The proposed center would be 
6,500 square feet and include one 
two-story building, two one-story 
buildings, a courtyard, as well as twenty-seven parking spaces for cars 
and additional parking for bicycles. 
The project in total would cost 
UCSD Hillel almost 15 million dollars, 
although, 8.5 million has already been raised; 5 million coming from La Jolla resident and philanthropist Joseph “Chickie” Glickman. The Hillel will also be named after Glickman, 
providing an outlet of activities and 
support to UCSD’s Jewish students. 
Currently, there is no set date of 
completion for the Hillel center but 
fundraising will soon begin to reach 
the 15 million dollars needed.San Diego City Council Approves Hillel Center After Over a Decade IN BRIEF
BY armonie mendez
editorial assistant
armonie mendez  aemendez@ucsd.eduIn order to finance the construction, UCSD Hillel must fundraise about 7 million dollars to reach the needed 15 million dollars.nonresident tuition fees, funding 
for research or other educational 
projects, housing stipends or 
services, or other benefits he or 
she has been awarded or received, and permit the student to be reenrolled if and when the student is able to return to the college or university. It is the intent of the Legislature that, in implementing this paragraph, California colleges 
and universities make reasonable 
and good-faith efforts to provide for 
a seamless transition in a student’s reenrollment and reacquisition of 
campus services and supports,” 
stated the bill.
With rise of immigration policies 
the bill also states that institutions should designate certain staff 
members as point of references for 
such cases so that they may be of aid when there are aforementioned 
occurrences on college campuses. 
Staff members appointed to these 
positions are to withhold from disclosing information unless 
permitted by the state and federal 
education privacy law.
needs to be taken into account when 
filing their 2017 tax return and/or 2019–2020 Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid/Dream Act 
application and when updating housing status on the 2017–2018 FAFSA application.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
Martin Velikov told the UCSD 
Guardian that moving off-campus 
is not the best option because it costs more than the incentive being offered. 
“I want to move off-campus but 
I feel like the incentive is not good enough. First, the money is taxed and I would have to put a security deposit and a place off-campus 
would need to be furnished, ” 
Velikov said. “The parking situation on campus is messed up as well, and if I don’t find a place near a bus stop to get onto campus, I will be late to class. ”
However, Thurgood Marshall College senior Zack Vass said that his brother prefers living off-campus and took the money instead.
“My brother was bummed out 
about living off-campus instead of The Village. However, he said it offered a better social experience with fewer restrictions, ” Vass said. 
“Since [the transfers’] off-campus 
housing was temporary, housing gave him an ultimatum to take a spot in North America Hall or the $4,500 incentive. He took the 
money. ”
Students deciding to move off-
campus can check the housing 
portal starting Oct. 10 and HDH is offering assistance in searching for a 
place and moving.
UCSD hopes to have the students 
in on-campus housing no later than 
Nov. 1.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
armonie mendez  aemendez@ucsd.eduNazis” and expressed how they felt 
about the situation.
“We had already been planning 
to make this Eat S--- Nazi banner so that we could fly it on a kite, but 
when the incident happened, we 
kicked it into high gear to finish 
making the banner that day in order 
to respond, ” UCSD Alumni William 
Johnson said. “I was hoping that the 
current students would be inspired 
to act on this, like we acted against 
racism and the Compton Cookout. ”
“[Identity Evropa] actively 
advocates for a policy of ethnic 
cleansing. This is a dangerous ideology that should not go 
unchecked by the general population, and the fact that so 
many were oblivious to the fact 
that white nationalists conducted 
an action on campus is really 
troubling. ”
Along with the controversial 
banners, a picture of Nate Parker, an African American musician coming 
to campus, was defaced with Nicolas 
Custous’ sculpture of Julius Caesar, possibly by Identity Europa.
 
 UC System Alumni Denounce the Incident
KEVIN PICHINTE  KPICHINT@ucsd.edu▶ IDENTITY EVROPA, from page 1
Some Transfers Find the Incentive Insufficient
▶ TRANSFER HOUSING, from page 1
KEVIN PICHINTE  KPICHINT@ucsd.eduThe Law Also Allows Students to Be Later Reenrolled if  Deported
▶ IMMIGRATION, from page 1
@UCSDGUARDIANfac eb o o k
Follow us on social media  @ucsdasceThe quarterly open-mic night brought to you
by your Associated Students
Free for UC San Diego Undergrads with valid student ID
For more information contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu • 858.534.0477YOUlike us on4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
AARTHI VENKAT
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
BY JONAH NAOUM // PRESIDENT OF UCSD YOUNG AMERICANS FOR LIBERTY
My name is Jonah Naoum and I am the UC San Diego Chapter President for Young 
Americans for Liberty. Our group is dedicated to advocating for liberty, free markets, 
limited government, and the Constitution. 
On Friday, Oct. 6, we were tabling with a free speech ball on Library Walk, exercising 
our First Amendment right to free speech through YAL’s National Fight for Free Speech campaign. We passed out pocket Constitutions, spoke to students and gave everyone the opportunity to write on our free speech ball. 
Let me be very clear:  We do NOT condone any markings of encouraging rape, anti-
immigrant slogans, supremacy, or the like. 
I can assure you that as a son of Iraqi immigrants I am very well aware of discrimination 
and do not condone any anti-immigrant slogans. However, everyone does have the right to free speech as guaranteed by the First Amendment; I acknowledge that right.  
Members of YAL and the Leadership Institute had seen the student sign our petition and 
leave his e-mail, associating him with Groundwork Books. The student wrote “Sic semper tyrannis” on the beachball, which is often meant as “thus always to tyrants”, an abbreviated version of “Sic semper evello mortem tyrannis” (“Thus always I bring death to tyrants”). While this did seem a little frightening at first that the student possibly implied death or harm to us, the student and YAL could both agree that tyrants are awful and freedom is best. 
Until further evidence surfaces, it is impossible to conclude exactly happened in the bookstore. I will not engage in a “he-said, she-said” battle. I will however, purport that it is important for all journalists writing this story to maintain their commitment to ethical reporting.The student in question was handcuffed, questioned, searched, and subsequently let go; the Campus Reform article provides evidentiary support for this assertion. 
My final comments to the student and members of the UCSD Left: I am friends with 
some of you and I hope this does not strain relations between us or our two groups. I disagree with communism and socialism, however I am giving you free and complete reign over the platform, which is the free speech ball, to write whatever you’d like, as a symbol to illustrate our First Amendment rights.
I encourage you to come to our meetings, to talk to us, and let us try to better understand 
each other. I am neither furious nor angry, but simply disappointed. It is not our fault that some individuals chose to write things we disagree with on our free speech ball. Yet, reacting in a violent manner is always wrong. Under no circumstances is violence acceptable. 
If you disagree with something, please engage in dialogue rather than violent tactics. 
This battle of ideas should not be fought with pocket knives, but with a pen and paper.
In Liberty,
Jonah Galeb NaoumLIQUIDATING PUERTO RICO
BY ADRIANA BARRIOS // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Shortly after Maria had finished her warpath through 
the United States territory of Puerto Rico, CNN ran an 
article with the headline “More Americans Live in Puerto 
Rico than in 21 States (and other things to know).” It was 
aimed at informing the U.S. population about this small island that a significant portion of the population don’t know is a U.S. colony. The piece simply gave statistics 
of how Puerto Rico would stack up if they were granted 
statehood. At the end of the piece, readers are briefly reminded that this colony of citizens had just been devastated by a hurricane. By framing this piece as a list of reasons why the U.S. mainland should care about Puerto 
Rico, it dehumanizes the people of the island. Instead of 
asking people to care about Puerto Rico simply because they suffered a great tragedy, the article implies that one should care because the 
island has a high gross domestic product 
and millions of citizens. 
At its core, this is a two-fold problem: 
On the one hand it is the emphasis on productivity or output as a determinant 
of human worth, and on the other, it is 
that this perspective has been applied disproportionately to people of color. The fact that this rhetoric works makes 
CNN’s article not a piece written with 
profound lack of empathy but rather with the societal climate in mind. The fastest way in which we are able to convince the rich to help the less fortunate — in times 
of crisis, often the less fortunate are people 
of color in the so-called “Third World” — is to tell them how much money they are saving and what these people are worth. 
In the case of Puerto Rico, CNN had the 
task of convincing a country that recently elected a racist xenophobe that these brown people from the Caribbean are American citizens who are worth something. It is a racist line of thought to justify helping people of color by 
seeing them as dollar signs, and although it is a subset of 
a larger social pathology, it is people of color that it hurts the most.
Racist may sound jarring at first glance but the matter 
of race relations is one of the principal reasons that Puerto Rico has not become a state, despite its numerous attempts to join the union throughout the years. One of the reasons getting aid to Puerto Rico has been delayed in the first place is the many convoluted stipulations that dictate its relationship to the national government, stipulations that have not only made this time of tragedy harder to 
cope with but have also left its economy in shambles. The 
current occupant of the oval office recently brought up Puerto Rico’s debt, saying he might have to forgive the island’s dues in order for them to recover, the implication 
here being that in a time when a third of the population 
doesn’t have clean water, people would be thinking about Puerto Rico’s debt crisis. It seems insensitive and therefore in character with the man’s usual commentary, but it also furthers the point that as far as the U.S. government is 
concerned, Puerto Rico is just numbers, no matter what 
these people may be facing.
Puerto Rico’s statehood aside, these arguments present 
a deeper flaw with our society overall because this isn’t the first time articles attempting to garner support resort to why people are deserving of help. The business of making sure people don’t die from a lack of clean water 
and shelter should not be ruled by cost-benefit graphs. 
That is not to say that the U.S. should be donating half of its budget to aiding every crisis faced in world, but that the measure of whether or not aid should be given isn’t an analysis of people’s economic worth. The 
American public doesn’t feel the same, a fact that CNBC 
demonstrated when they published a similar article, titled “DACA Deportations Could Cost US Economy more than $400 billion,” this time listing the main economic reasons we should continue the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals program and protect its recipients — not because 
it is the morally correct thing but because of how much money the country would lose if they left. 
Toxic as this ideology is, it is one that we have allowed 
to happen by letting numbers and dollar signs rule our life. One of the biggest measures of people’s success is their net worth, with publications like Forbes and the Wall Street Journal releasing list after list that ranks people by how much money they are worth. When measuring 
the progress that so-called “developing countries” are 
making, we usually utilize GDP increases. Neither of 
these measures are inherently bad; we live in a capitalist society where 
economic development and success are 
imperative to this system. The problem here is in creating a culture where we see the economic success as the sole measure of a person, as the sole worth 
of a society.
To be fair, some numbers do matter. 
For example, Puerto Rico has been 
without power for three weeks, and 
only 10,000 respondents have been sent 
to help the 3.5 million U.S. citizens suffering in Puerto Rico. The numbers that matter most are those that have yet to be disclosed. The Federal Emergency 
Management Agency refuses to release 
an updated death toll, freezing the number in the 40s, a number most experts argue is not realistic. They also 
deleted from their website the most 
updated statistics on the percentage of the island without 
running water and electricity. The story of Puerto Rico is represented by numbers unseen because that is how the government and its people have always treated the island: 
America’s biggest “out of sight, out of mind.” That, 
however, needs to change because, although they may be out of sight, these are real American citizens dying on American soil and no amount of Benjamins will be able 
to bring them back.
Adriana Barrios  A7barrio@ucsd.edu“The story of Puerto Rico 
is represented by numbers 
unseen because that is how 
the government and its people 
have always treated the island: 
America’s biggest ‘out of sight, 
out of mind.’”ILLUSTATION BY YOUTUBE.COMOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Officeand PepperCanyon HallOutsideBookstore atLibrary WalkGilmanParking Office
7–8:30 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,and 4–5 p.m.weekdays
Current registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded.  
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/25/2017Weekdays
8:30 a.m. to4 p.m.As needed per signs at Gilman Parking Office
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
EC0NOMIZE
IT
BY 
SUZANNE 
GOLSHANARA
ILLUSTRATION BY
PNGPIX.COM
I’M NOT KIDDING, SELL YOUR KIDNEY
Kidneys toil away on a daily 
basis regulating everything from 
blood pressure to pH and excreting one’s bodily wastes and toxins. In spite of all the work that kidneys do, a majority of the population can survive perfectly fine with just one. This should be great news for the over 100,000 people in the United States who are waiting for a kidney transplant. 
However, the National Kidney 
Foundation states that 13 people die everyday waiting for a kidney transplant. A majority of this deficit in kidneys comes from the 1984 National Organ Transplant Act, a well-meaning piece of legislation that established a national organ-matching registry and prohibited the sale of organs. The penalty for any 
parties caught doing so is a fine that 
can cost up to $50,000, up to five 
years of imprisonment, or both. 
As a society, we have deemed it perfectly legal for a person to sell their eggs or sperm. Yet when it comes to kidneys, people are expected to donate their vital organs solely out of pure altruism. In fact, in America, donors are expected to shoulder all their travel and caretaker costs and the four to six weeks taken off of work to recover: an unfeasible financial obligation for most. Instead, a regulated market for kidneys needs to be legalized so kidneys can be freely bought and sold. 
A year of dialysis costs 
approximately $88,000, which is about the same cost as a kidney transplant. If Medicare, which covers the costs of dialysis for a patient of any age for an unspecified number of years, simply reallocated 
its funds from paying for years of 
dialysis to paying for individual 
transplants, thousands of lives and large amounts of money would be saved. A government-run system would also prevent the rich from monopolizing the kidney market by simply bidding up prices. 
Many people worry that opening 
kidneys up to the capitalistic system 
of supply and demand would 
disproportionately lead the poor to 
sell their organs. Frankly, it probably 
would. However, a piece in the New York Times argues that “people, especially poor people, take risks for money all the time” that are statistically far more dangerous than donating a kidney, like “accepting money for being a policeman or miner or soldier.” Of course, the 
interests of potential living organ 
donors should be protected through 
processes such as interviews to 
make sure that individuals are making completely independent, informed decisions, payment for all medical and nonmedical related expenses, and follow-up health care. Countries, including Saudi Arabia, Israel, Singapore, and the United Kingdom with similar programs have seen a direct correlation between such compensation and a rise in donations. 
It’s easy for people to become 
sentimental over major societal shifts when their own lives are not at stake. For those in the United States who do not have the fortune of getting a living donor, a long and uncertain future of dialysis and deteriorating health often lies ahead. The organ shortage we have is self-inflicted, and thus solvable. Controversial or not, the legalization of kidney sales is a step that needs to 
be taken in order to save real lives.
“For those in the United States 
who do not have the fortune of 
getting a living donor, a long and 
uncertain future of dialysis and 
deteriorating health often lies 
ahead.”
SUZANNE GOLSHANARA  SMGOLSHA@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
features@ucsdguardian.org
The sky is blanketed with fog as class lets out of Center Hall. Amid the 
traffic of students hurrying to their next destinations, Professor Adrian Borsa and I scout for a place to sit down and talk. As we do so, a student 
from his earth sciences class, in which Borsa lectured on the impact of ocean temperatures on climates around the globe, approaches him and inquires about 
the climate of San Diego.
Professor Borsa promptly explains that San Diego has a Mediterranean 
climate, noting the peculiarities of its weather, like the thick fog rolling in above 
us despite it being June. But perhaps years ago, before he had even considered a career in the earth sciences, Borsa couldn’t have answered this student’s question so thoroughly, let alone given an entire lecture on such a topic.
Born in Los Angeles to a Hungarian father and Croatian mother, Borsa and 
his family briefly lived in Columbus, Indiana before settling in San Diego. Borsa later earned his bachelor’s degree in government from Harvard University and his master’s degree in international relations from UC San Diego.
“I thought I was going to have a career that involved international business 
or international relations, ” Borsa recalled.
“My focus was on Japan because at the time Japan was ascendant and pretty 
much everyone … was saying that Japan was going to overtake the United States in 10 years’ time. It was the country to study, so I did. ”
Borsa studied the Japanese language and later went on to work at a Japanese 
company for several years — a period of his life he remembers as “unusual. ”
“I was working at 
a very large Japanese company both in Japan and in the U.S., and it 
was quite bureaucratic. 
There’s not a lot of room for independence or independent action when you’re within that kind of an organization. ”
Eventually, Borsa 
decided to leave his position at the company in Japan.
“The most straightforward way I can put it is that I just got bored, ” he 
explained when asked what led him to his decision.
Borsa then found work at a startup company founded by Alex Kane, one of 
his former professors at UCSD. After working there for a year, however, he was ready to move on again.
“I thought I was going to get an economics Ph.D., took one week of 
economics classes and realized that I just could not focus. So then I asked myself, ‘What do I really want to do?’”
It was actually the UCSD Career Services Center that enabled Borsa to 
finally realize what he wanted to do for a living.
“I opened up [the Career Services Center’s] book on graduate programs, 
went through every single page, and I wrote down all the programs that seemed to be interesting to me: archaeology, geology, atmospheric science, ” Borsa told the UCSD Guardian. “So I put all these things together and, at the end, I realized that 80 percent of the topics I’ d listed were in the earth sciences, and I realized I had my answer. ”
Ever since this pivotal moment in his life, Borsa has steadily worked his 
way toward conducting his own research. It was no easy task, however, for him 
to get where he is today. After deciding that he wanted to earn a doctorate in 
earth sciences, Borsa took two years of undergraduate courses at UCSD, having to take these extra steps due to his lack of experience with science, technology, engineering, and math. 
“The MATH 20 sequence, the PHYS 4, the CHEM 10 series … I took all of 
these classes to prepare myself because I had not had any math or science prior to that, ” he recalled with a knowing smile. 
More challenges were awaiting Borsa once he enrolled in the doctorate 
program at Scripps Institute of Oceanography. One such obstacle was the fact that Borsa was one of only two entering graduate students at Scripps that year.
“So the U.S. economy was on a tear. Everybody was getting incredibly high-
paying jobs on W all Street and elsewhere and not one of the applicants to the geophysics Ph.D. program at Scripps decided to come, ” Borsa explained.
Nevertheless, he was encouraged to apply to Scripps months after the 
admissions deadline by Bernard Minster, a professor at Scripps who he had been volunteering for. Borsa was then accepted along with his classmate, Kerry Key, who is now an associate professor at Columbia University.
While a good portion of his classes were made up of several doctorate 
candidates, there were a few classes in which Borsa and Key were the only students.
“We had classes where the professor would walk in and say, ‘Okay guys, do 
you have any questions?’ Kerry and I would look at each other, look at him and say no, then the professor would say, ‘Okay, class dismissed!’ It was terrifying, ” he recalled, laughing.
In addition to the pressure brought on by tiny class sizes, Borsa also 
struggled with his courses since he had only recently decided to study the earth 
sciences and was not as familiar with the field as his peers were.
“It was, intellectually, the hardest thing I had ever done because I was way 
out of my depth most of those classes, and it’s a very rigorous program, but 
somehow I’m here, ” he said with a chuckle. “It was not easy, I can tell you. But it was totally worth it. ”
After years of intense 
work, Borsa earned his doctorate and spent the next several years working 
in scientific management 
in Pasadena, California and Boulder, Colorado before returning to full-time research at Scripps in 2012. While he began his research by studying tectonic geodesy (measuring the 
movement of Earth’s surface to study the forces at work underneath), Borsa 
soon found himself going in another direction.
“ As I was getting into [tectonic geodesy], I stumbled across an unusual signal 
in the instrument network I was looking at that ended up being the earth’s 
response to our drought … It was possible using this network to determine how much water had been lost in the drought and where this water was being lost from, ” he said. “So that opened up a whole different line of research and that’s what I’m primarily doing now. ”
Like the route he took to becoming a scientist, Borsa’s research methodology 
is also atypical. As he explained how he uses classical geological instruments and 
techniques to study hydrology, Borsa noted that it is relatively uncommon for 
scientists to research multiple topics at once.
“Science tends to be pretty conservative so … while the idea of doing 
interdisciplinary research is really great for marketing, for the individuals themselves it’s fairly difficult to break out of one’s area of specialization. Everyone’s so busy that you can’t imagine taking on another thing that’s not necessarily in your area. ”
Despite the extra effort required for conducting interdisciplinary research, 
Borsa is grateful to be working at UCSD, having called the university “an 
exceptional, dynamic institution built on disruption and change. ” After reflecting 
on the twists and turns of his path to finally achieving contentment with his career, Borsa offered some advice for students who may be experiencing the same disillusionment he felt before.
“If you already know what you want to do in life, you are lucky and that’s 
wonderful and you should pursue that goal to the best of your ability. But more than likely, one doesn’t know … so you have to be open to whatever changes Adrian Borsa, an 
associate earth 
sciences professor 
at Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography, 
describes his unusual 
journey to fi nally 
discovering what 
he wanted to do 
with his life, and the importance of being open to change.Professor 
Adrian Borsa: 
Atypical 
Academia
by Jade Wong // Contributing Writer
“If you already know what you want 
to do in life, you are lucky and that’s 
wonderful and you should pursue that 
goal to the best of your ability. ”PHOTO COURTESY OF ADRIAN BORSATIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
SeeATYPICAL  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
just seem to be coming organically, especially the ones where you feel like this is the 
right thing even though it doesn’t necessarily seem like the path you thought you were going to be on. ”
At UCSD in particular, where every student has worked hard to attain some 
level of academic excellence, there is a culture of settling on a career path as quickly 
as one can. However, Borsa believes that waiting is an important part of deciding 
on a career.
“The students here are ... driven individuals who are maybe very goal-oriented, 
and it can be disconcerting for them when their goals change, ” he stated. “Just accepting that and becoming your own person is really, in my mind, the main purpose of what a university education is all about. Let the discovery process happen and you’ll be in a good place at the end of it. ”
As for proof that this slow approach to choosing a career is successful, one needs 
only to observe the passion with which Borsa lectures his students and discusses his research.
“This is fantastic. This is what I want to do, ” he concluded with a warm grin. “I 
just took a roundabout way of getting here. ”
Transfer Students at UCSDjade wong  jknowshi@ucsd.edu
by Jade Wong // Contributing Writer
34 percent of UC San Diego’s undergraduates are transfer students hailing from colleges and universities throughout California, the nation, and the world. 
They bring to UCSD the unique perspectives fostered by the schools they’ve transferred from, but how much of a di fference does previous college experience 
actually make when it comes to being a student here?
Ethan Y oon, 3rd Y ear, Thurgood 
Marshall College, Communication
For Ethan, transferring to UCSD this year was 
more than just the next step in his college career — 
it was a fresh start.
Reflecting on his time at Santa Monica College, 
he said, “I spent four years there and a lot of it was 
just messing around and having fun … Honestly, I 
really didn’t enjoy my time at community college. I think this is a big step up for me. ” 
One reason why Ethan was happy to transfer 
out of SMC was the lack of motivated students there. He felt that students were either trying to transfer out as fast as they could without developing connections with others or neglecting their schoolwork. 
“ At SMC, it was really easy for me to lose track 
of where I was going and lose my motivation, ” he continued. “Here, people are taking the time to build relationships and connections, and actually streamline towards a goal, so I think it’s a lot better here. ”
Now that he’s at UCSD, Ethan appreciates not 
only the more-driven academic environment, but also the accommodations the university has made 
specifically for transfer students. All incoming 
transfers are guaranteed two years of on-campus housing, something that Ethan, who lives in The Village, felt was beneficial to making a smooth transition here.
“On-campus housing lets you get introduced 
to other transfers who are in the same age group, so you feel like you have connections with other people already and don’t feel like you’re hanging out 
with people a lot younger than you, ” he observed.
Despite feeling grateful to be at UCSD, Ethan 
admits that, as a transfer student, he feels he’s 
missing out on the typical college experience. “I think it would’ve been easier to get involved on 
campus as a freshman because when you first start school you have big dreams and are surrounded by other freshmen who do too, ” he explained, “Once you get a little older, you see the reality. Not to 
sound depressing, but it’s scarier the closer you get 
to the real world. Y ou see that once college is over, you have a whole future to worry about. ”
Ethan may have ditched his rose-colored glasses 
since transferring, but it’s for a good cause. He’s more focused on getting his Bachelor’s degree now than ever. 
“Now that I’m actually at a university I want to 
focus on getting out finally, ” he reflected. “I don’t 
want to waste anymore time. Of course, I still want 
to have fun, but there are times to have fun and times when you should be studying. It’s important to find the distinction between the two. ”
Rebecca transferred from the San Diego 
Community College District knowing two things: she wanted to complete her Bachelor’s degree and 
she wanted to stay close to home and to her puppy 
Daisy. UCSD has proven to be the right choice — she’s studying what she loves and finding work as well as volunteer opportunities that she’s passionate about, all while coming home to Daisy after each day.
Rebecca has volunteered at the Women’s Center 
and the English-in-Action program, been a Muir College Transfer Orientation Leader, and worked 
as a mentor for the PATH Summer Academy, 
which “Prepares Accomplished Transfers to the Humanities” from SDCCD. She currently volunteers as a Muir Peer Mentor, works at UCSD’s English Language Institute as a conversation leader, and interns at the Division of Arts and Humanities. “I’m happy with the number of volunteer commitments and jobs I have at UCSD, ” she remarked. 
While Rebecca is certainly thriving since coming 
to UCSD, she did encounter some problems upon first arriving here. 
“The number of acronyms thrown around here were a bit more difficult to adjust to as a transfer because students taking upper-division courses are expected to know them already. For example, in my 
first quarter I got an email 20 minutes before one of 
my classes informing me that the location had been changed from the Literature building to ‘WLH. ’ Even though WLH is one building over from LIT, I panicked at first because I had no idea where it was. ”
Besides being perplexed over UCSD’s plethora 
of acronyms, Rebecca also struggled with feeling isolated from UCSD during her first quarter.
“Between being a commuter, working evening 
hours, and majoring in the humanities at a STEM-dominated school I felt disconnected from the campus community, ” she explained. “However, during Winter Quarter I was on campus Monday through Friday and I felt like I got a lot more out of that quarter. ”
As for now, Rebecca is very content at UCSD, yet 
she wishes that the university would provide more areas for students to study on campus.
She recounted, “Before SDCCD, I briefly 
attended Columbia University until deciding it wasn’t right for me. One thing I enjoyed there is the number of libraries it had. UCSD had multiple libraries before budget cuts, and I would love to see them try to bring them back now for increased 
study spaces. ”
Over time Rebecca became increasingly 
connected to the UCSD community, but for transfer 
students who may be struggling to get involved, her advice is to spend more time on campus.
“I think most transfer students are used to 
spending the least amount of time on campus, but UCSD is absurdly large and there’s always something to do. ”
Rebecca also believes that, while transfer 
students are often older than other college students, there’s no reason for them to be excluded from the campus community.
“ A lot of transfer students come in older than 
traditional students — for example, I just turned 23 today — and think that there aren’t ways for them to get involved, ” she noted. “However, UCSD has just about everything you can think of, from a fathers’ 
support group to a board game club that meets at 
the student-run science fiction library. Just spend more time on campus!” Before Wen transferred to UCSD this year, he 
spent a week on campus during the summer as part of the OASIS TRIO Student Support Services Program (SSSP). Designed to provide incoming students with community, academic support, and opportunities for campus involvement, the program was crucial in helping him make a smooth 
transition from Pasadena City College.
Now that the academic year has started, Wen 
doesn’t have much to complain about. He’s at a 
university that is “kind of far from home but not too far, ” studying a subject he’s so interested in that he’s considering completing his Master’s in International Studies here, and trying out organizations like the Korean American Student Association and the Multi-Asian Student Association. 
Y et Wen has had some unpleasant experiences at UCSD due to his status as a transfer student. 
“Teachers expect you to know material and 
information from earlier parts of a class series if you’re a transfer student, ” he explained. “It makes it harder to adjust into the later part of the series. ”
Wen has also noticed some contrasts in the 
academic environments of UCSD and Pasadena 
City College. 
“CC was much more laid back. Here, I have the 
same size workload that I had before, but I have to 
put in double the effort. It’s because the professors at community college are there to teach you, but the professors here don’t really focus on individuals. When the class sizes are so big here, you lose that personal touch that you have at CC. ”
In addition to large class sizes, another issue 
that Wen has with UCSD’s multitude of students is the lack of adequate parking spaces. 
“Basically, if you move your car on a weekday, 
you won’t be able to find another spot after you leave the parking lot, ” he remarked. 
Despite feeling that UCSD is overcrowded, Wen 
is very happy with his decision to transfer here. He noted how easy it is to get involved on campus.
“Clubs on library walk will literally just hand 
you information during the first few weeks of school. Whether or not you’re able to get involved is really based on your personality — you can’t blame UCSD if you’re not willing to go out of your comfort zone. ”
While Wen is still acclimating to the ups and 
downs of UCSD, there is one thing he knows for certain: “They should really build another parking 
structure. ”As a commuter living in Tijuana, Jorge limited 
his college and university options to the city of San 
Diego. After attending San Diego Mesa Community College, Jorge applied to transfer to University of San Diego, SDSU, and UCSD.
“There is no reason why I only applied to colleges 
in San Diego other than not wanting to pay for housing or rent, ” he explained. “Commuting across 
the border for the last twenty years has become 
routine and quotidian. ”
In keeping with his goal to save money, Jorge 
chose UCSD because the school offered him the most financial aid. Upon arriving here, Jorge wanted to study the classics and specialize in European Medieval and Renaissance Literature, yet over time he decided to change his career path. 
“ After a quarter at UCSD and working as a tutor for three years at a private high school, I reconsidered what I wanted to pursue, ” he recounted. “The education studies department at UCSD is a state of the art program. UCSD made it very easy to make this transition in career paths. ”
Since transferring, Jorge doesn’t believe his 
approach to academics has changed, despite UCSD having a more rigorous academic environment. 
“Y ou know, I was paying for my community 
college courses, and I am also having to work and pay for my coursework now as I was before transferring, so one might say I am just as committed to my coursework now as I was before transferring. Y our wallet can be a significant incentive. ” 
While his commitment to his studies hasn’t 
changed, Jorge feels that UCSD’s commitment to the liberal arts is lacking, and that the university needs to resolve certain issues that are specific to Arts and Humanities transfers. 
“I think UCSD needs to push certain programs a 
lot more, and market itself as a holistic college, and not purely a STEM oriented campus, ” Jorge observed. “I think there are very little liberal arts classes and professors, and much expansion to be done in this area. ”
As for involvement on campus, Jorge remarked, 
“I was fortunate enough to work very closely in the education sector before transferring, and I think it earned me the experience to become a tutor here. But for those who are having difficulty getting involved, the best way to do so is through your coursework. Talk to your professors and ask for any research opportunities. That is the greatest form of involvement you can experience. ” 
Rebecca Chhay, 4th Y ear, Muir 
College, Literatures in English
W en Zhao Y ang, 3rd Y ear, Sixth College, 
International Studies – Economics
Jorge Arana, 4th Y ear, Warren 
College, Literatures in EnglishPHOTO COURTESY OF ETHAN YOON
PHOTO COURTESY OF JORGE ARANA
PHOTO COURTESY OF WEN ZHAO YANG
PHOTO COURTESY OF REBECCA CHHAY▶ ATYPICAL, from page 6Dress pants recently purchased with student loans at the new Nordstrom 
opening? Check. Time spent proofreading — and then paying roommates to proofread — resumes and cover letters? Check. Crippling amount of self-
doubt and fear? Check.
It doesn’t, nay, it shouldn’t have to be this way.
Still, the ever-looming gray cloud that is both the job hunt and the existential crisis 
that accompanies the most frequently asked and most intensely dreaded question — 
“what are you doing after college?” — lingers like the morning fog hovering over the Pacific. It creeps in  consistently, and hits most potently when alone. But like the blind leading the blind, yours truly is here. Armed with a disclaimer that she too, has no idea what is going on, despite only having approximately eight more months until a more concrete answer must satisfy that question. Apparently, “I’m not too sure, but I still have some time!” doesn’t cut it anymore. 
So with that, into the job hunt haze we go.
Like any other adventure, the minimum starting line should at least be defined 
so that if the end result is still lost in the fog, then at least one can get a feel of where 
square one is. Practically speaking, if the dream career seems too far gone in the gray, then it doesn’t hurt to know at least what strengths are carried and what traits could use a bit of tweaking. Clearly constructing a base to build off of teaches future post-grads and jobseekers how to market themselves well — flaws and all — and at the very least, enhances self-awareness. 
So, the first few steps have been ventured, but perhaps we’re still caught in the 
clouds. This is where the backpack full of equipment, tools and, potentially, snacks to 
fuel the process comes into play. While the end goal might not yet be in full view, one 
should know how to utilize the resources around to help pave the path. On campus, advisers at the Career Center are eager and willing to answer questions, quell fears, brutally (albeit honestly) critique resumes, and sit through the highs and lows of job hunting, grad school applications, and post-June gloom. So if you are in need of finding a job, let them do their job. Online, websites like Port Triton allow users to navigate Triton Career Tools and digital resources, like “Find Y our True North” — a pdf that personalizes the crusade for employment while capitalizing on strengths, reevaluating weaknesses and mapping out idealistic dreams into realistic goals. 
Maybe at this point, the sun is beginning to cut through the vapor and the end 
goal is slowly taking shape. There is more focus on what is being aimed for but a little 
guidance could still be used. 
After all, any vision needs a bit of structure. 
In the book, “Designing Y our Life: How to Build a Well-Lived, Joyful Life, ” Stanford 
professors Bill Burnett and Dave Evans describe how, once a goal is mapped, the most powerful next step should always be practical and toward people. Networking is key. This could be where that random phone number from the student in CSE 100 could come into play. Where group project members have the potential to turn into future co-workers. Disclaimer: This is not advice to use people, but rather to remember that connections made in some random lower division class could help come June 2018. 
And even if networking for future purposes isn’t a topic of concern, c’mon people, at 
least make some friends. 
Burnett and Evans go one step further and introduce something called the 
“prototyping interview. ” Think of it as Dine-With-a-Prof 2.0. Find mentors, employers, researchers, or anyone who has a job that aligns with the end goal. Offer to buy a cup of coffee and ask for their stories. Now is not the time to be intimidated to initiate. Those who have been honing their craft for a while now are usually willing to share their experiences, give a nugget or two of wisdom and, if nothing else, brag about their accomplishments. This segues neatly into networking, adds onto experiential 
cognition, and could provide an opening to a volunteer opportunity, internship or, 
optimistically, a potential job.
The journey might be long and maybe the end goal is not going to be as near as 
previously thought. But, remember to extend a little grace and always iron the dress pants. The Job Hunt Haze
By Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle EditorA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGLIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVESLIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRIS SILAS NEALLIFESTYLE       THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Last week, I discussed how I thought that my brother and I were incredibly different culturally 
due to him being raised in America and myself being raised in the Philippines. However, I felt like 
I failed to mention a very important point. In speaking to my mom after she read my piece, she said that the issue is not as black and white as I made it seem. My brother is not “just American” and I am not “just Filipino. ” We are Filipino Americans, adding elements of each culture into our 
metaphorical identity stews — but finding that balance between the two was difficult at first. 
There’s a statue in the middle of Union Square in San Francisco that depicts a woman balancing 
on a ball, holding a trident and a wreath. I’ve probably passed that statue a hundred times, but only 
recently did I read the fine print on the base; it’s called the Dewey Monument, which celebrates Admiral George Dewey’s victory in the Battle of Manila Bay. This win paved the way for American occupation in the Philippines just a few months later. 
Essentially, the statue celebrates the takeover of the Philippines by the United States. Growing up, it sometimes felt like I was betraying my own Filipino culture without even 
knowing. For lunch, sinigang and rice in a silver canteen soon became peanut butter sandwiches. My accent quickly faded away, replaced with a Californian twang. I bought pretty stationary and, in my large seven-year-old handwriting, scribbled letters to my cousin about eating ice cream with my friends at school and to my grandma, asking her to send things over to us. But as I became more invested in my life in the states, the stationary was pushed to the back of my desk drawer and I stopped responding. I felt the American seeping into me — into the clothes I wore, into the way I carried myself. I 
didn’t want the acceptance of my new American identity to be a rejection of my Filipino one, but in order to “fit in, ” that’s sometimes what I felt like I had to do. For a while, my identity battled with itself because I didn’t want to choose to define myself with a singular ethnicity. I could not be singularly Filipino or singularly American. 
This inconsistency within myself led me to make some choices about who I wanted to be, and 
I wanted to be both Filipino and American. What I’ve learned over the years is to think of the 
cultures as complementary instead of contradictory. Just because I am independent doesn’t mean 
I don’t have strong family ties. Watching American television does not mean I’m betraying The Filipino Channel teleseryes. Bottles of soy sauce and bagoong live comfortably in the refrigerator alongside ketchup and mustard. Technology now makes it easy for me to communicate with family 
back in Manila — I FaceTime my cousin at least once a week and text my grandma asking for 
updates. 
By allowing the cultures to work in harmony rather than opposition, I was able to find peace 
within myself and with my identity. To me, identifying as Filipino American means that I’m proud of where I come from, but I’m also proud of where I am. 
That, perhaps, is the biggest victory of them all. 
Astrology: the study of celestial bodies, their movements, and how that affects humans. It’s a 
topic many dismiss quickly, but there is more to it than meets the eye. One not only has a sun sign, but a moon sign, an ascendant sign, and even a whole birth chart. Moreover, one has a sign for every planet, each one possessing its own meaning. In this piece, we will be sticking with the main sun sign.
Y our sun sign represents your basic personality. Just as the Sun “rules” our galaxy, our sun signs 
rule our astrological identity. It is incorrectly assumed that our sun sign describes our present selves, but in actuality, it offers insight into who we are destined to become. Adding to that, sun signs also shed light on our life purpose. Everyone possesses different focuses and values that 
manifest themselves through their sun sign.
Aries, a natural leader, is fearless and brave. Their energy is magnetic and demands attention. 
Those of the sign are highly ambitious and very straight to the point.
Taurus is a practical and reliable sign that values stability. The sign’s loyalty and patience are 
among their best qualities, but be careful not to push a Taurus over their limit!
The mentally gifted and clever sign that is Gemini knows how to think on their feet. They are 
quick and witty, but the enigmatic twins can’t quite express their emotions effectively.
Cancers are the shy and withdrawn homebodies of the zodiac. Though they can become over-
emotional, this only shows how genuinely Cancers care for others.
Leos are the ruler of the jungle! As the sign ruled by the Sun, Leos can get a little pompous; however, they are generous and enjoy giving to those they love often and without prompting.
The consistent and practical Virgo is frequently perceived as cold and emotionless due to its 
calculating personality. Though deep down they are truly loving, most are not able to see it.
Libras seek peace and harmony. As excellent peacemakers, they can get along with anyone. 
Though Libras tend to be indecisive, this could never overshadow their pleasant spirit!
The impressive and independent Scorpio has a fierce emotional energy. This passion can 
sometimes unreasonably control them, despite its originating from a good and sincere place.
The wanderlust sign that is Sagittarius enjoys broadening their mental horizons and experiencing 
life. As perfectionists, they can be self-critical and must remember their strengths.
The serious and hard-working Capricorn can accomplish anything. They may have difficulty 
understanding emotions, but this does not make them any less able, ambitious, and confident!
Aquarius is a humanitarian sign with a strong moral compass, valuing truth. Because of their 
assertive and strong demeanor, others try to match Aquarius’ level of integrity.
Pisces, closely connected with their emotions, exude compassion and concern. Often neglecting 
themselves, they should learn that they deserve the same love they give everyone else.
If you think that this is all there is to astrology, you are in for one astrological surprise. Make 
sure to check back in next week for a breakdown of each of the four elements of the zodiac. Till 
then, Astro-lovers!Tales of a Philippine Life: A Cultural Battle
Astrology 101: The Stars and How They Affect YouBy Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor 
By Natasha Vandamme // Lifestyle Writer10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
On Oct. 10, renowned young-
adult author John Green 
released his latest novel, “Turtles 
All the Way Down. ” This is the first book Green has written since releasing “The Fault in our Stars” in 2012, yet it still contains his trademark classic banter, quirky details, and quick pace. Regarding its more realistic protagonist and discussion on anxiety, though, this is an unprecedentedly personal novel.
The story centers on Aza Holmes, a 
16-year-old with a fairly ordinary life. Her mom is a math teacher at her high school in Indianapolis. Her best friend Daisy has bright pink hair and writes Star 
Wars fan fiction. Aza dreams of going to 
college, but as the daughter of a single mom, that means finances are a little 
tight. All of this changes, however, with 
the announcement of a $100,000 bounty for a missing local millionaire. Daisy and Aza concoct a plot to find the millionaire, claim the reward, and use the money to go to college. During the course of the investigation, Aza reunites with her childhood friend, Davis. To make things more complicated, Davis happens to be the son of the missing millionaire, adding a personal aspect to Aza’s and Daisy’s investigation. In rekindling the friendship, the two find numerous commonalities in regard to their experiences with loss and complexities of everyday life, allowing them to completely open up to each other. 
Aza struggles with anxiety throughout 
the novel, oftentimes to the point where she is unable to fully devote attention to what is going on around her. She is not the typical rebellious and confident heroine of John Green’s novels, such as Hazel Lancaster from “The Fault in Our 
Stars” or Margo from “Paper Towns. ” She 
meets with a therapist on a bi-weekly basis, begins taking Lexapro, and exposes 
the reader to her nervous ritual of 
reopening a finger wound only to sanitize it and bandage it again. Aza’s anxiety revolves around a fear of bacteria and contamination, making everyday parts of life such as eating, touching unknown surfaces, and kissing difficult. Readers may initially feel wary of Green’s use of anxiety as a plot or characterization device, but it is not exploitative. John Green has discussed his own struggles with obsessive-compulsive disorder and anxiety, and the way Aza’s anxiety attacks are written and her subsequent actions are anything but romanticized. Furthermore, she does not miraculously get better — her anxiety is clearly painted as something she will have to learn to live with, and her true friends will stand by her in support. It is not going to magically go away, but there is a message of hope: that Aza will be able to better cope over time. 
The book could best improve regarding 
concrete detail and the overall fast pace of the writing. John Green is known for his rapid-fire speech in his Crash 
Course videos on YouTube, and quick, 
witty dialogue between characters. These quirks remain in “Turtles All the Way Down, ” and almost imperceptibly increase. It is understandable why Green turns to these narrative strategies, especially during Aza’s anxiety attacks, but the conceit results in only excess detail. More descriptive and detailed scenes, regarding character relationships, allow for readers to be more engaged and understanding of the progression of the story. More background details on the character also further immerse readers. That said, the constant dialogue and action does make for an engaging and addictive read. 
“Turtles All the Way Down” has its 
moments of incredulity, but it always returns to fundamental messages on friendship, mental illness, loss, and love. The Indianapolis setting and discourse on anxiety make for a profoundly personal novel, as well as a more 
believable story. Overall, this novel is a 
worthwhile read for fans of young-adult fiction and John Green’s previous works. 
 
—   DAISY SCOTT
Staff Writer
John Green captivates with his newest young-adult romance novel, a heady mixture of comedy, teenage ennui, and mystery. 
BOOK  REVIEW
Turtles all the wa y down
PHOTO COURTESY OF RODRIGO CORRAL
Book   Turtles All the Way Down
Author  John Green
Release Date   Oct. 10, 2017  B+ 
F
Follow Us On Facebook@
UCSDGUARDIANA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Father John Misty, the indie folk 
rock musician, performed at 
the North Park Observatory on 
Friday night (Oct. 6). As requested 
by Misty himself, I quote, “Joshua 
Tillman a.k.a. Father John Misty, who 
is known maybe more [for his on stage rants] than his music, treated the San Diego audience to [an outburst] 
about having had his picture taken 
with a cup of hot tea.” After weeks of touring across the nation, FJM fell 
sick to the flu, the primary reason 
for the hot tea. After finger-wagging his audience for a few minutes about 
their carelessness and lack of concern 
for his cool reputation, he gave the audience what they wanted and decided to cooperate. He proceeded 
to do different poses holding not one, but two cups of hot tea on stage. 
The opening artist was Weyes Blood, 
an up-and-coming psychedelic folk 
singer. After experiencing Weyes Blood’s music in person, I can honestly 
say I look forward to hearing more 
from her and her band in the future. As of this year, Josh Tillman has released three albums in his Father John Misty 
guise. FJM’s first album, “Fear Fun,” 
came out in April 2012, followed by the “I Love You Honeybear” album 
in February 2015, and most recently, 
his “Pure Comedy” album, which was released in January of this year. 
The venue was small and intimate; every 
single person there was captivated by his music for the entire duration of the set. There was a foggy, or shall I 
say, Misty, ambience due to the fog machines set up all over the venue. 
FJM did not fail to deliver a powerful 
and truly heartfelt performance. Not 
only is FJM a lyrical genius, he has an absolutely angelic voice unmatched 
by any major indie artists today. 
 I remember feeling a surge of excitement run through me from head to toe as he stepped onto the stage 
— a tall, majestic giant. The crowd 
was screaming, as he sauntered to the microphone and sang “Pure Comedy.” 
From “Pure Comedy” to “I Love You 
Honeybear,” FJM’s voice remained graceful, flu or no flu. It is unclear 
whether the best part of the concert 
was his sudden outbursts of dance, his spontaneous rants on stage, or the actual music. Nevertheless, he has a 
way of making each and every member in the audience feel included and truly 
a part of the experience. He made eye 
contact with his fans and talked to us as 
though we were his friends. FJM’s music is many things: melancholic, romantic, 
hopeful, satiric, but most of all, utterly 
raw and real. There’s something to be said about music that can make a person want to cry, laugh, dance, and 
love all at the same time. FJM is truly a 
testament to how magical music can be. Overall, the concert was an 
unforgettable experience that I truly 
hope everyone has the opportunity to enjoy at least once in their life. 
—  Lorena Espinoza
Senior Staff WriterHipster-priest and part-time rock musician Father John Misty returns, triumphant and only a little bit sick, to San Diego.CONCERT  REVIEW
Fat h er J o h n M i sty
Location The Obeservatory North Park
Release Date  Oct. 6, 2017 APHOTO COURTESY OF  DIY MAG12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
PUBLIC NOTICE
The University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego) proposes to 
adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) for the proposed Voigt 
Parking Structure (proposed project) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
The proposed project would involve the construction of an approximately 
365,697 gross square foot (GSF), four-story, two-bay parking structure 
that would support up to approximately 840 parking spaces. The 
proposed parking structure, which would be located at the intersection of 
Voigt Drive and Engineer Lane, is intended to provide access to campus 
facilities and ensure that parking needs are adequately met for staff, 
students, and visitors to the Warren College Neighborhood (which 
includes the Jacob’s School of Engineering) on UC San Diego’s La Jolla 
Campus. The proposed parking structure would include intersection 
improvements to provide right-in/right-out vehicle access along Voigt 
Drive (Third Level) and right-in/left-out vehicle access along Engineer 
Lane (Fourth Level). The proposed project would also modify the 
four-way stop-controlled intersection of Voigt Drive and Engineer Lane, 
including widening for vehicular queuing as well as improvements to 
intersection crossings, bicycle lanes, and sidewalks. The parking structure 
would also include a landscaped Live Roof (Fifth Level) with various 
multi-modal circulation improvements, such as pedestrian and bicycle 
pathways that would ramp down to and provide connections to 
surrounding areas within the Warren College Neighborhood
Based on the Initial Study (IS) prepared for the project, it has been 
determined that the project would not have a significant effect on the 
environment that cannot be mitigated. Therefore, an MND will be 
issued. Copies of the Draft IS/MND may be viewed at: 
http://plandesignbuild.ucsd.edu/planning/environmental.html   
or by contacting the UC San Diego Campus Planning Office, 9500 
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0074, (858) 534-6515. Public 
review of the Draft IS/MND will extend from October 10, 2017 to 
November 9, 2017. Any comments regarding the accuracy of the Draft 
IS/MND should be directed to the UC San Diego Campus Planning 
Office at the above address.
Follow us 
on all platforms!@ucsdasce
Younger  Now
by  Miley  Cyrus
Release Date Sept. 29, 2017
Miley says goodbye to her pasties and dons old cowboy boots once again. ALBUM  REVIEW
Violins, raw guitar notes, and Dolly 
Parton, oh my! The inoffensive 
“Younger Now” can make one think, 
“Is this that same Miley from the 2013 VMAs?” Bashed for all previous cultural appropriation, Cyrus probably felt that it was time to let go of her crazy lifestyle. Farewell, sweet molly and Mike WiLL Made-It. “Younger Now” seems to be more of a plateau in her sound, but Cyrus incorporates a few successful back-to-basics tracks that truly portray her roots.
The first single, “Malibu, ” is a standout that 
incorporates smooth, raw vocals and breezy guitar, a tribute to her love for boyfriend Liam Hemsworth. Cyrus wrote this ode to her beau and their new lives in Malibu, which 
accentuates the album’s pure and inoffensive 
nature. Another favorite, “Love Someone, ” relies on classic rock influences mixed with a pop chorus. More significantly, the title track introduces the album’s intended theme of change and rebirth. “Even though it’s not who I am, I’m not afraid of who I used to 
be” she sings as the slogan to her newfound 
image. However, the intended theme of purity and love is not always met behind all the dominating guitar riffs Cyrus incorporates.
“Rainbowland” sees an appearance from 
godmother Dolly Parton, yet incorporates lyrics and instrumentals one might hear at a Disneyland pioneerland ride. Even the appearance of Parton herself can’t save the dullness of this track. “Thinkin’” and “Week Without You” are cringy wannabe pop singles, filled with tacky lyrics and overbearing beats; the only upside to those tracks are the lead onto the next instrumentals “Miss You So Much” and “I Would Die For You, ” which rightfully give Cyrus’ refined vocals the focus they deserve. The album did not necessarily fail to deliver Cyrus’ message of rebirth and change, however the album may have missed the mark with unnecessary pop influences that overpower and drain the color from the songs.
The ballad “Inspired” concludes the 
album with soft instrumentals and lyrics pertaining to her father Billy Ray Cyrus. You can finally get a feel of her melodious voice and raw sentiment that has been missing since the classic “The Climb.” One thing is for sure; Cyrus is eager to leave behind the cultural appropriation gimmick and 
sink back to her true country roots, but is 
it worth the attendant lack of dynamism?
—   Melissa  Palafox
 Senior Staff Writerb-
FIND US AT:
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
FLETCHER W/ FAULKNERTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 16 - OCT 222017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN10.16 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
SPEAKER - HOW PEACEFUL 
MIGHT EAST ASIA’S CIVIL 
NUCLEAR PROGRAMS BE? - 
SCHOOL OF GLOBAL POLICY AND 
STRATEGY CLASSROOM 3203
With recent North Korean nuclear saber rattling 
and the military rise of China, talk has turned to whether or not South Korea and Japan should go nuclear. How easy or difficult would it be for Japan and South Korea to exploit their civilian nuclear infrastructure to make bombs? How might China react and what might it do to bolster its nuclear capabilities? Come join us to find out at a presentation by Henry Sokolski, executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center. Lunch with be provided. Contact Lisa Lee  •  lisalee@ucsd.edu  •  858-534-2657 This event is sponsored by GPS’s Korea-Pacific Program and the UC San Diego Center for Peace and Security Studies (cPASS). Free to attend, but registration is required.
4:30pm
BIOMEDICAL ETHICS SEMINAR 
SERIES
The UC San Diego Biomedical Ethics Seminar 
Series meets once monthly for faculty, staff, 
and students to discuss selected ethics topics. 
Unless otherwise noted, all meetings are on the third Wednesday of the month, 4:30–6:30 p.m. (MTF) at UC San Diego in the Medical Teaching Facility, Room 175. To subscribe/unsubscribe to the Biomedical Ethics Seminar Series mailing list, please send an email to ethics@ucsd.edu.5pm
WELCOME BACK MIXER - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
"For those who have come back, and for those 
about to pack." Join Study Abroad to welcome back students who have returned from study abroad; also welcome are students who are considering study abroad in the future. Co-sponsored by Study Abroad and I House. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
8pm
FLETCHER W/ FAULKNER - THE LOFT
UCSD Students - FREE. General Admission - $11. Tickets on-sale soon: ucsdboxoffice.com. Following in the footsteps of Lorde and Tove Lo, FLETCHER was named a Spotify spotlight act in alongside Troye Sivan and Gallant in 2016 following the success of #1 viral track "War Paint."Following a string of summer festival performances, FLETCHER announces her first-ever headlining tour for Fall 2017 to support her forthcoming project. For fans of Dua Lipa, LANY, Lorde, Phoebe Ryan, Astrid S, Lauv. Recording their yet-to-be-released debut album, at Rick Rubin’s Shangri La studio & East West, RZA and co-producers Mark Needham (The Killers) and JP Bowersock (The Strokes) perfected the distinctive irreverence of Faulkner’s first record.Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu5pm
INSIDE INNOVATION: ETHAN BIER 
AND VALENTINO GANTZ - SANFORD CONSORTIUM, ROTH AUDITORIUM AND TERRACE
Inside Innovation is a presentation series 
featuring the latest innovative technologies 
developed by UC San Diego researchers. Get an 
inside look at what is happening in the labs, explore commercialization opportunities and inquire about licensing. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 3 - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HALL (ERC)
Do you want to learn a language FOR FREE with 
an amazing community? Come to our Language Conversation Tables! LCTs are one of I-House's 
most popular programs and this year they'll 
occur every Tuesday at 6pm! Come to learn and 
practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the 
world! Everybody (from any language level) is 
welcome! Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
SHORT TALES FROM THE 
MOTHERSHIP - SEUSS ROOM, 
GEISEL LIBRARY
Taken from the sci-fi aesthetics of UC San Diegos 
iconic Geisel Library building, the UC San Diego 
Library is hosting a written/spoken word event: 
Short Tales from the Mothership! Hear works of micro-fiction (250 words or less). Contact: spaulson@ucsd.edu
2pm
TRISHA BROWN DANCE 
COMPANY - LA JOLLA PROJECTS 
BY RICHARD FLEISCHNER, 
STUART COLLECTION
In planning since before Trisha Brown’s death 
earlier this year, ArtPower is proud to present a unique iteration of In Plain Site, a site-specific work created for the UC San Diego campus by Trisha Brown Dance Company (TBDC). The company will adapt Brown’s signature works around the campus, honoring her commitment to the presentation of performances in nontraditional venues, a format she helped pioneer. Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.com11am
COMMUNITY SERVICE FAIR - 
LIBRARY WALK
Interested in volunteering or community service? Check out the Community Service Fair to see how you can get involved through community service and meet student organizations dedicated to service! Contact: c1simon@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
ART & SOUL AT THE ZONE! - THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Questions? Contact The Zone at via email or call (858) 534-5553. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
FIRST STEPS TO STUDY ABROAD - 
UCSD STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Join a professional advisor to learn the basics to 
studying abroad and what you need to do to prepare for your study abroad adventure. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
PATHS TO PHDS - COMUNIDAD 
ROOM, CROSS CULTURAL CENTER, 
PRICE CENTER EAST
Want to earn a PhD in Psychology or 
Neuroscience? At this panel, grad student speakers will reveal how to successfully apply to graduate programs at UCSD, what those programs are like, and much more! Pizza and refreshments will be served. Contact: scp008@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
WONDER WOMAN - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Don't miss this special FREE screening. FREE. 
DOORS: 6:30PM, SHOW: 7PM. 6pm
UCSD MEN’S WATER POLO VS. AIR 
FORCE - CANYONVIEW POOLS
Each week during the academic year, the 
International Center invites the campus community to celebrate world cultures by featuring cuisines from around the globe as part of the Friday Cafe. Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from a different country every week! Price: $5 per plate. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
6pm
HAUNTED AQUARIUM: SEA 
MONSTER MASH - BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Enjoy close encounters with Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography scientists and search the galleries for unusual underwater creatures rarely seen at Birch Aquarium at Scripps. Discover a sea of glowing beasts (big and small), get sticky with slime, and enjoy spooky stories, all while boo-gieing down to live music and having a monstrously good time. Recommended for ages 2+. Visit our website for a complete list of activities. Pre-sale tickets are $13.50 for Birch Aquarium Members and $18.50 for the Public. Tickets at the door are $20. Free for children 2 and under. Please note that general admission tickets cannot be used for Haunted Aquarium. You will need to purchase a separate ticket for the special event. The aquarium closes between 5 and 6 p.m. For more information or to purchase tickets, visit aquarium.ucsd.edu or call 858-534-7336.TUE10.17
THU10.19
SAT10.21MON 10.16
FRI10.20WED10.18
2pm
TRISHA BROWN DANCE 
COMPANY - LA JOLLA PROJECTS 
BY RICHARD FLEISCHNER, 
STUART COLLECTION
In planning since before Trisha Brown’s death 
earlier this year, ArtPower is proud to present a unique iteration of In Plain Site, a site-specific work created for the UC San Diego campus by Trisha Brown Dance Company (TBDC). The company will adapt Brown’s signature works around the campus, honoring her commitment to the presentation of performances in nontraditional venues, a format she helped pioneer. Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.comSUN10.22The Loft @ UCSDMONDAY
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
OCT 17National
Pasta Da y
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Entranced
5. Hinder10. Highest point
14. Location
15. Wear away
16. Songbird17. Coastal bird18. Part of New York (2 wds.)
20. Mysteries
22. Wind direction (abbr.)
23. School vehicle24. Cowboy bar25. School assignment
27. Mail
29. Las Vegas bride, often
33. Took a dip37. Blacken39. Distribute
40. ____ Marie Presley
41. Canonized person
42. She, to Pierre43. Client44. At one time45. Tree greenery46. Bookworm48. Not present51. Perfect53. Taunts58. Knock sharply61. Pen liquid62. Frighten63. Wipe out completely66. Burrowing rodent67. Malt brew68. Fizzy beverages69. Eternally70. Depots (abbr.)71. Scornful sound72. Family roomsDOWN
 1. Fixed prices2. Fight site3. Jeopardy
4. Argentine dance
5. Part of FDR
6. Love deity7. Freight weight8. Margins
9. Put in again
10. Carpenter’s tool
11. Crustacean12. Diner list13. Remnants
19. Embossed emblem
21. Floor cleaner
25. Moral26. Alpine song28. Glance at
30. Warsaw native
31. Jazz singer ____ Fitzgerald
32. Coral ridge33. Defame34. Sage35. Yachting36. ____ Gras38. Over again41. Pain47. Correct copy49. Vouch for50. Nay’s opposite52. Ohio city54. Carrying weapons55. Range56. Actress ____ Burstyn57. Clairvoyants58. Steals from59. Egg on60. Guilty, e.g.62. Heavenly light64. Taxing agcy.65. ExcitementHOUSING
La Jolla Canyon- $1550-$2220. 9515 
Genesee Ave., San Diego, CA 92121. La Jolla Canyon is rental living designed for your convenience. Professional property 
management secures beautiful naturally 
landscaped grounds and a relaxed, 
well maintained environment. La Jolla Canyon is conveniently located close to shopping centers, beaches, movie theaters, restaurants and schools. Many major corporations are within a short distance. Our one and two bedroom rental homes are equipped with the functional features 
necessary in our fast-paced world and all 
the amenities that you will be glad to 
come home to. For your enjoyment there is a lovely swimming pool and spa, a fully equipped fitness center open 24 hours and a convenient laundry facility. Combined with our lush landscaping, La Jolla Canyon truly is community living at it’s finest. All this at an affordable price!.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat- $1330-$1735. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. The Diplomat Apartments offers a vast range of amenities in our several unique floor plans. Experience contemporary living while being only minutes away from SDSU, shopping, and more! We provide a FREE* Shuttle to and from the campus. Our luxurious floor plans include central heat and air, washer and dryer hook up (select units), 10ft cathedral ceilings, a master 
bath Jacuzzi tub, refrigerator, electric stove, 
fireplace, microwave, dishwasher, patio or 
balcony and are cable and internet ready. 
Our other amenities for you to enjoy are 
FREE assigned parking, a refreshing pool and BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour 
emergency maintenance, and a courtyard 
fountain. We hope you will call or stop 
by and we look forward to making The Diplomat your new home! *A pass is 
required to utilize the shuttle. The pass 
is a $13 minimum annual pass fee. This 
information is general in nature and for promotional purposes only. Accuracy of the information is not guaranteed, including but not limited to apartment size, layout, features, amenities, location, common 
areas, parking, or neighborhood. Please 
contact leasing personnel for further 
information. Please feel free to ask for assistance with respect to any disability 
related needs....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
La Jolla Crossroads -$1875-$3050. 9085 
Judicial Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. Picture 
yourself in a Meditteranean village- the aroma of fresh food, the chatter of people in 
the park and an easy stroll to shops and fun. 
We welcome you to visit La Jolla Crossroads. 
You’ll be minutes from the beach, UCSD, 
major employers, shopping, movie theaters 
and fine dining! Our stylish studio, one, 
two and three bedroom apartment homes 
feature washers and dryers, modern 
appliances, fireplaces, roman tubs and 
cathedral ceilings. La Jolla Crossroads offers amenities that are truly one of a kind 
pools, spas, a tech lounge, movie theater, 
modern clubhouse with kitchen. You can 
work out in our fitness facility and then 
hang out in our picnic areas with BBQ’s. 
We offer services to our residents including 
a shuttle, package acceptance, concierge services, 24-hour courtesy services and so much more.... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Cannondale SR500 Silkroad 56. San Diego, CA. OBO is only for credible offers. This bike is a collectors item or for enthusiasts whom love vintage Cannondale bikes as well as shimano group-sets. It has the original shimano group-set and wheel set. It’s the shimano 600 tri-color. The whelks a….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mountain bike, Haro Escape, front 
suspension(Kearny mesa). San Diego. 
Excellent condition. Over 10year bike.…...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Litespeed 55(San Diego). This a medium to 
large size frame for people 5’ - 9” to 5’ - 11” and it’s in attractive shape all around. The grip tape may need to be replaced soon but that minor. The bike is a titanium frame with campagnolo veloce group-set. It is 
weight around 16-17.…... ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
San Diego AM Package Handler 
2:00am-9:00am Mon-Fri or Tues-Sat. Summary: Offloads and sorts incoming 
packages for distribution and/or prepares 
outgoing freight for delivery by performing 
the following duties.  High school diploma 
or general education degree (GED) 
preferred; or one to three months related experience and/or training; or equivalent combination of both. This is a safety sensitive position.…..ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Sales for Pharm Techs Pharmacist Pharm 
Reps, Pharmacy Card Sales. San Diego, CAPharmacy Techs and Pharmacists this is NOT a position in the pharmacy. This is an Independent Sales Representative position. Prescriptions Discounted with Your Personal Card Earns You Money! $1.00 for every prescription discounted!.... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Sales Representative.The Keator Alliance. If 
you have ever been in sales or just looking to get into sales then SEARCH no more. This is a sales person dream… We have revolutionized the direct mail campaign and people are responding back giving us their Home Phone, Cell Phone, and Work Phone and signing ...... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
The UC San Diego men’ s soccer 
team traveled up north to Arcata, 
California to face Humboldt State on Friday in what was supposed to be the first of its two matches in 
Northern California. However, due to 
the wild fires near Sonoma State, the 
Sunday clash against the Seawolves 
ultimately was cancelled. 
With the postseason looming 
the Tritons want to finish the last 
stretch of matches strong and go into the California Collegiate Athletic Association T ournament, hosted at UCSD, with momentum. They did just 
that in their match against Humboldt as they left Arcata as 3–2 victors.  
The Tritons could not have gotten 
off to a better start as they were able 
to knock in the first goal of the game 
in the 10th minute courtesy of junior midfielder Kiefer Cooksey. The junior’ s 
first goal of the season made way for a dominant first half from the Tritons as 
Humboldt failed to get anything going in the opening 45 minutes. UCSD head coach John Pascale’ s team held a 13–2 shot advantage in the first half, 
while also attempting ten corner kicks throughout the entire game compared to a grand total of zero for Humboldt in the full 90 minutes. A fter nearing a 
second goal on several occasions, the 
Tritons eventually made it a 2–0 lead in 
the 43rd minute through a corner kick that found the head of redshirt senior 
midfielder Danny Glascock, netting his 
first goal in over two years.  
As the teams went to break, it looked 
like a Triton victory was imminent. 
However, in the second half, Humboldt showed some grit to make the contest interesting in the final minutes of the 
game.
About halfway through the second 
half in the 65th minute, Cooksey netted his second goal of the game make it a comfortable 3–0 lead, or so it seemed. One thing about scoring is once you get one, you believe you can get another. The momentum is crucial. Humboldt 
in the 79th minute found a bit of belief and notched their first goal of the game. 
Five minutes later, the Lumberjacks earned a penalty kick and made it 3–2. Next thing you know, it is a frantic last five minutes of the game as Humboldt 
State held all the momentum in an attempt at an incredible comeback. Fortunately for the Tritons, the score 
stayed as is for the remaining few 
minutes and earned all the three points.The match was a tale of two halves 
and if there was a bit more time on 
the clock, who knew what could have been the score. Humboldt State turned it around in the second 45 minutes as they outshot the Tritons 10–3.  
Next up, UCSD will travel to 
San Marcos as they will look to earn another victory against the side as they did earlier in the month. The match 
against Cal State San Marcos is set for Friday, Oct. 20 with a 3 p.m. kick-o ff.  
Tritons Avoid Last Minute Upset Water Polo Takes 
Another WWPA Victory After leading 3-0 in the second half, UCSD narrowly avoided a Humboldt State comeback.
UCSD maintains its throne on top of the conference. 
MEN'S SoccerBY Daniel Hernandez
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSdaniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
UC San Diego cannot be beaten 
when they play in the Western Water 
Polo Association this season, and the Tritons moved to 4–0 in conference play with a solid 13–8 win over No. 
17 California Baptist on Thursday 
evening. No. 12 UCSD moves to 
7–10 overall and sits pretty atop the WWPA. 
The Tritons relied on a golden 
trio of junior utility Kevin Asplund, senior utility Arman Momdzhyan, and freshman utility Connor Turnbow-Lindenstadt, who each 
scored three goals to earn the win. 
They got o ff to a hot start and made 
the diff erence in the first half. At the 
end of the first quarter, the Tritons 
were up 5–1 and they added three goals in the second quarter to take an 8–3 lead into halft ime. From 
that point on, UCSD was on cruise control, tying the Lancers in goals 
in the third and fourth quarter. To 
complete the scoring, junior utility Alessandro Valania added two goals 
and sophomore utilities Skyler 
Munatones and Noah Carniglia each had one. 
UCSD dominated CBU in shots 
33–26, and rode a good game by junior keeper Sam Thompson who 
saved 10 shots and had five steals on 
the night.
For the Lancers, redshirt junior 
goalie Matt Miller had 12 saves but could not give CBU the spark needed to come away with a win.
“We are super stoked to win on the 
road and very pleased to have a great start and establish some separation, ” UCSD head coach Denny Harper told the Athletics Department. “It always helps when … three players have hat 
tricks and a solid game by Sam in 
goal. ” 
UC San Diego continues to play 
away from home on Wednesday, Oct. 18 at 6 p.m. at Long Beach State for a non-conference matchup.
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduBY MARCUS THUILLIER
Managing Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The UC San Diego women’s soccer 
team defeated Humboldt State 2–1 in 
a double overtime match on Oct. 13. With this victory, the Tritons maintain their winning streak and improve to 
9–0 in California Collegiate Athletic 
Association play. 
The Lumberjacks got on the 
scoreboard early in the match courtesy of junior midfielder Alex Jenkins; around the 15-minute mark, Jenkins sent a low shot past Triton redshirt sophomore goalkeeper Angelica Ramos for the goal. 
Jenkins’ goal was the only slip-up 
the Triton defense let by. Stifled by the Triton defense, Humboldt State only attempted eight more shots for the remainder of the game, including during both overtimes. UCSD’s success on defense 
translated to more possessions on offense. The Tritons attempted 26 
shots in total, a far cry from the measly nine taken by Humboldt 
State. Out of the 26 shots, the Tritons 
converted on two: a penalty kick and a header.
The first goal came at the 22:09 
mark, when a foul by Humboldt State gave Triton redshirt sophomore midfielder Natalie Saddic a penalty kick. Saddic sent the ball into the bottom left of the net to score UCSD’s first goal, bringing the score to 1–1. 
Six minutes and 20 seconds into 
the second overtime, UCSD scored its second goal. At 106:12 gametime, senior midfielder Elisa Martinez received a corner kick on the left side. Martinez’ corner kick set up junior forward Mary Reilly for a header into the goal at 106:20. 
UCSD will face o ff against Cal 
State San Marcos on Saturday, Oct. 
21. Kicko ff is set for 2 p.m.
Double 
OvertimeThriller!
UC San Diego stays perfect 
at 9-0 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association play.
by Richard Lu // Sports Editorial AssistantwoMEN'S Soccer
RICHARD LU  RIL014@ucsd.edu
UC San Diego vs. Cal Poly Pomona 
– La Jolla, CA
The UC San Diego women’s 
volleyball team steered clear of any 
unlucky superstitious activity on Friday, Oct. 13, defeating conference 
opponent Cal Poly Pomona and 
protecting the Reis Cup for the second year in a row. The Reis Cup 
commemorates the life of Triton 
volleyball alumni, Karen Reis, who 
passed away in 2012 unexpectedly.
Upon dropping the first set of the 
night to the Broncos 18–25, UCSD swept the remaining games to finish 
the match 3–1. This win brought the 
Tritons to the top of the California Collegiate Athletic Association standings, tied with Sonoma State, 
with a mighty 8–1 record.
Senior outside hitter Amanda 
Colla continued her stellar senior year 
recording a total of 19 points o ff 17 
kills, a solo block, and a service ace, 
on top of a well-deserved Reis Cup 
Most Valuable Player award. Colla’s 16 digs secured her another double-double, adding to her 11 others for the 
2017 season.
UCSD prevailed among a 
competitive back-and-forth second 
set to tie up the match and carried the aggressive momentum moving 
forward. Sophomore middle blocker 
Jessica Rieble executed on a service ace to capture the set 30–28. Rieble also tallied nine kills, four digs, and 
four blocks.
The Tritons played their best in 
the fourth set, computing a .350 
attack percentage in a 25–15 set victory. Sophomore outside hitter 
Jessyca Beksa had an excellent .464 
attack percentage  with 14 kills in 28 attempts. Junior outside hitter Molly Dalziel added eight kills and 15 digs to wrap-up UCSD’s five-game winning streak.
UC San Diego vs. Cal State San 
Bernardino – La Jolla, CA
The Tritons dropped their first 
home match of the year on Saturday, 
Oct. 14 to CCAA rival Cal State San 
Bernardino. Although falling to an 8–2 conference record, UC San Diego 
still remains in control of the South 
Division.
UCSD kept the point di fference 
under four in all but one set, 
unfortunately coming up short 
1–3 at the end of the night. Colla put on another incredible display, documenting a career-high of 24.5 points from 23 kills, one service ace, 
and a block assist. She also recorded 
14 digs.
A .308 attack percentage in the 
second set anchored a successful 
25–22 UCSD set win, but it was not 
enough to withstand a powerful 57 kills and 11 team blocks from the Coyotes.
Rieble contributed nine kills, one 
block solo, and three block assists to accumulate 11.5 points for the Tritons. Beksa followed close behind on the outside with 11 kills and 
Dalziel totaled nine kills, two assists, 
and 13 digs. Sophomore libero Alyson Penrose led the team in both digs and assists with 26 and five respectively.
The Coyotes broke the Tritons’ 6–0 
record in RIMAC Arena this season by holding higher attack percentages in each set. There were 19 total tie 
scores and eight total lead changes in 
which Cal State San Bernardino came 
out on top this time around.
UC San Diego will take this week 
to prepare for Sonoma State on Friday, Oct. 20 at 7 p.m. in Rohnert Park. 
UC San Diego takes CCAA top 
spot after Reis Cup victory
UC San Diego split its back-to-back matches on Friday and SaturdayW. volleyballPHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER  // UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER  // UCSD GUARDIAN
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduBY Madeline Lewis
Contributing WriterUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Golf
M Golf
M Water Polo
M Soccer
M Water Polo10/1610/1710/1810/2010/20 8 AM
8 AM
6 PM3 PM6 PMAT Otter InvitationalAT Otter InvitationalAT Long Beach StateAT Cal State San MarcosVS Air Force