VOLUME 50, ISSUE 7  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 13, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
CHAMBER 
ORCHESTRA
The UC San Diego Chamber 
Orchestra offers students a 
chance to continue playing 
music in college, make 
new friends who share their 
interests, and play an exciting 
repertoire.
COMMUNITY  DISSERVICE
PHILIPPINE  LIFEDISINGENUOUS  VOLUNTEERS
belonging   in   el   nidoOPINION,  Page   4
Lifestyle,  Page  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Despite the best efforts of 
the men in power, victims 
of sexual assault have been 
emerging in the past few 
decades to expose their 
often famous assailants . 
This is undoubtedly a 
victory, a step in the right 
direction, to confronting the 
mass problem of sexism 
and sexual violence in our 
society. ”
- ADRIANA BARRIOS
OPINION, PAGE 4FEATURES,   PAGE   6
MONDAY
H 20 L 13
WEDNESDAY
H 22 L 14
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD
Students, faculty, and members 
of the public filed into Price Center 
East Ballroom on Wednesday evening to listen to Seton Hall University professor Thomas Healy speak about free speech in the 
public atmosphere and on college 
campuses. Healy defined proper counter-speech and outlined the legal and social consequences of any form of speech. The lecture started with Healy 
explaining the purposes of free speech in the United States. 
“Freedom of speech promotes the 
search for truth by forbidding the government from shutting off debate on particular topics or disfavoring particular viewpoints, ” Healy stated. 
“It enables individuals to discuss 
policies openly and ensures they have access to information that they need to make political and personal choices. ” 
Healy additionally claimed that free speech “enables us to engage in expression vital to our self-fulfillment. ”
Professor Healy touched on 
the common claim that counter-protesters hinder other’s freedom of speech. He argues they should not be restricted since they work in 
“the system of freedom of speech 
that relies on counter-speech as the primary alternative to government Private Donor 
Financed Men’s Water Polo $45,000 Trip AbroadCAMPUS
The men’s water polo team 
visited Croatia, Hungary, and London this past summer.  
This past summer, the UC 
San Diego men’s water polo team 
traveled to Europe to compete in 
various matches and to immerse 
in water polo culture. The team made stops in Croatia, Hungary, and England, countries in which 
water polo is very popular. The 
trip was funded largely by a private donation.
Deputy Director of Athletics 
Wendy Taylor May said that the 
Athletics Department worked 
in accordance with UCSD’s International Center faculty, the NCAA, as well as Federation 
Internationale de Natation, 
which administers international competition in aquatic sports.
In Budapest, Hungary, an 
international hotspot for water polo, 
the team trained at the Budapesti 
Vasutas Sports Club. During the players’ time in the city, they had 
the opportunity to watch the FINA 
world championships. They then travelled to Croatia, where they were able to compete in the Adriatic Sea. 
Finally, they travelled to England, 
the birthplace of the sport, and flew home from there.
In the past decade, only a 
handful of the school’s teams 
have been able to travel abroad to 
compete. This issue is compounded by the immense financial expense of sending a team overseas. 
In records obtained by the UCSD 
Guardian, the cost of travel and lodging was more than $45,000 for the trip. These expenses were paid for with money privately donated to 
the athletics department. Without 
generous donations like the one that helped pay for much of the trip, the team may not have been able to go.
In addition to a huge financial 
burden, travelling abroad may be a major conflict for an athlete’s rigorous training schedule. May said that this makes the chance 
to compete internationally an 
especially unique opportunity for athletes at the school.
“For a lot of our athletes, the 
option of participating in a study 
abroad program is unavailable 
because it may conflict with their schedule or jeopardize their eligibility, ” May said.
Junior utility Kevin Asplund said 
that athletes most likely wouldn’t want to take a semester away for this very reason. 
“A l m o s t  e v e r y  a t h l e t e  w o u l d  A proposal to rename Sixth College to Cesar 
Chavez College was met with swift student resistance at an Associated Students 
meeting on Wednesday, Nov. 8. The proposal 
was made by Dr. Olivia Graeve, a professor in the 
Jacobs School of Engineering, who believes that 
Cesar Chavez represents “an entire movement in California that promoted social justice and 
equality for the most vulnerable in the state. ”
Concerns about student input 
In the proposal, Graeve noted that the three 
main bodies she planned to consult with were 
the Academic Senate, the Graduate Student Association, and A.S. Council. According to Social Sciences Senator Freddy Arriola, this caused concern about whether student input from Sixth College would be sought. 
“[Graeve] kept referring back to trying to 
support the students, but she clearly hadn’t spoken to any of the Sixth College students, ” Arriola said. 
Sixth College Representative Senator Caroline 
Siegel-Singh also believes that communication should have been more transparent with Sixth College. 
“[Consulting with those three bodies] isn’t 
really the appropriate process. It also completely blocks out the majority of the voice, ” Siegel-Singh 
said. “So we really emphasized in last week’s 
Senate meeting that the appropriate avenue for this discussion was not A.S. Council, was not GS and was not Academic Senate — it would be to first approach the Sixth College Student Council. ”
In light of these concerns, Graeve said she 
will be meeting with SCSC in two weeks to 
further discuss the proposal. She believes that 
despite resistance, students need time to think the 
proposal over.
“I hope that students would consider my 
proposal in serious way in what I consider to be a serious and valid proposal, ” Graeve said.
Incongruency with 2015 resolution to name 
Sixth College after a woman of color
In 2015, A.S. Council and SCSC, among several 
other campus and student organizations, advocated 
for Sixth College to be named after a woman of color who embodies the theme of the college to promote representation and inclusivity. According to Siegel-Singh, this is still the prevailing belief 
among SCSC constituents. 
“Students reiterated that they don’t think [Cesar 
Chavez] is the best name because it doesn’t tie into 
our theme of Art, Innovation and Technology and then again referenced the resolution, saying that they really do want to see more diversity in the naming of the college and specifically having a woman, ” Siegel-Singh said.
Figueroa said she is willing to back SCSC’s 
stance.
“I saw that Sixth College senators were really 
supportive of [the resolution] and if that’s how they want to go, then we can reaffirm the resolution and A.S. [Council] will support that. ” By Shagun  Khare  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Seton Hall University law professor Thomas Healy discussed protests and free speech at universities.CAMPUS
BY Madeline   Leon
Contributing Writer
BY tYLER  fAUROT 
CONTRIBUTING Writer
Noted Constitutional Scholar Addresses UCSD Students
Students squat, stand, and sip for a photo at a Bear Garden event. Photo by Eugenie Juan // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
CAMPUS
See WATER POLO,  page 3 See FREE SPEECH , page 3See SIXTH COLLEGE , page 3Professor Proposes New Name for Sixth College
TUESDAY
H 22 L 14
THURSDAY
H 22 L 14
SCIENCE & TECH.........1
QUICK TAKES...............5
HOROSCOPE..............11
CROSSWORD .............14
M WATER POLO..........162 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
PRODIGIOUS CAMPUS By Michi Sora
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Things just seem a little more European this time.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Armonie Mendez, 
Chloe Esser, Maya Kleiman Dr. Nan Hao and his research team 
at UC San Diego are exploring how 
to prevent cells from aging by trying 
to maintain a cell’s ability to control 
chromatin silencing as the cell ages. The team’s goal is to make a cell control its ability to turn on and off chromatin 
silencing, a process by which when 
turned on, DNA is protected from damage by temporarily becoming nonfunctional through the cover of a compact chromatin structure. 
A DNA region is protected from 
external damage by being “silenced” and covered for a certain period of time, Hao described to the UCSD 
Guardian. However, as the cell ages, the 
ability to turn on chromatin silencing is lost, which causes the cell to constantly be exposed to damage and later leads to its death. 
The research team is focusing on 
understanding the basic biology of cell aging.
Hao stated that they have “come 
up with this innovative technology in combination with computer modeling 
that helps us to track single cell aging 
and track their molecular changes during the aging process. ” 
There are two states of chromatin 
silencing, the open state and the closed state. 
“The cell can switch between two 
stages periodically. First, it will be in the protected compact state. After 
a while it will switch to open stage 
where it can produce all this useful protein and mRNA, and after a while it will switch back, ” Hao explained. 
“When cell becomes old, it stays in the 
open chromatin stage, and it is very vulnerable to DNA damage. After a while, the cell dies because the DNA is messed up. ”
Chromatin silencing can be good 
and bad; the challenge with this research is to find out how to regulate the process of chromatin silencing. 
“On one hand, chromatin can 
protect DNA from damage; on the other hand, it prevents the DNA region from being functional. If you have too much protection, it is actually bad 
for the cell because it cannot produce 
all these important genes, ” Hao said. “This protected region, because it is highly compacted and it is also no longer functional, cannot be rid of 
transcription factors and it cannot 
produce mRNA and protein. ” 
The goal of the research is to 
periodically and artificially regulate 
chromatin silencing in older cells so 
that a cell’s life span can be extended. 
Hao noted that “if we can reinforce this switching artificially, then it will promote longevity. We want to find a 
way to generate this artificial silencing 
in old cells to extend the cell lifespan. ”
For example, if there is a drug that 
can be administered periodically to cause the switch, then the right balance 
between the two states can be achieved. 
The team has already published 
one collaborative research paper on 
cell aging and chromatin silencing. The 
next step is to look at other processes 
for cell aging. 
The results from this research 
can help scientists prolong human longevity, Hao pointed out. 
There are several lab positions 
that students can apply for to get the opportunity to do research. 
UCSD Researchers Combat Aging by Regulating Chromatin Silencing
BY Tanaya Sawant
CONTRIBUTING WRITERThe team of scientists believes that protecting DNA from external damage is the key to slowing the aging process.
Tanaya Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.eduSCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Follow Us
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGAt
censorship. ” 
He described the “chilling effect” 
as the inability for unpopular 
opinions to be expressed due to “social backlash.”
Healy made a claim for proper 
counter-protests by stating, “We should accept the legitimacy of protests, marches, insults, shaming, 
demonizing, calling out, and even 
social ostracism since it is not 
unreasonable for speakers to bear 
these consequences. ” 
Despite Healy’s perception on the 
necessity of counter-protests in the system of free speech, he believes that violence, threats, or any effort to prohibit free speech violate the First Amendment. He reasons that acts of violence are “not legitimate 
mechanisms for countering ideas 
one disagrees with” because they “resemble the use of force by the government. ” 
He used “heckling” as an example 
of unnecessary counter-speech that aims to silence a speaker through psychological and physical means. 
Professor Healy supposed that 
college students have been labeled as “attackers of free speech. ” He said, “It is the result of some legitimately disturbing incidents on college campuses like Berkeley and Middlebury in which some students have responded to speech they disagree with by engaging in violent protests. ”
In his statement, Healy referred 
to the destruction of $100,000 worth of property in response to right-wing Milo Yiannopoulos planned appearance at UC Berkeley in February; he also referred to the attack on Conservative Speaker Charles Murray in Middlebury College in March. 
The UC San Diego webpage 
“Freedom of Speech and Expression 101” outlines the restrictions of free speech on campus. The website itself admits, “Issues pertaining to freedom of speech and expression can be very complicated and confusing. ”
The webpage supports free 
speech at UCSD as it “[encourages] the free flow of ideas and [protects] individuals whose speech may 
be considered unpopular or 
dissentious. ” Provided on the site 
are several “content regulations” that 
are not “protected under the First Amendment. ” These regulations include  “obscenity, incitement, and 
fighting words. ” 
Revelle College transfer student 
Riana Menezes is concerned about 
whether or not UCSD students can freely speak their mind. “It depends on if the topic has been politicized or not, ” she said. “If you take one position, people immediately pin you down for the mainstream 
version of that position. ”
Revelle sophomore Heather Spaun 
also believes social repercussions 
follow hate speech in particular, though these consequences do not hinder one’s freedom of speech. “I feel like there might be social backlash, but I haven’tv  really seen any severe cases. ”
During Healy’s lecture, audience 
members listened closely to the professor’s speech. Although the question and answer session toward the end of the lecture sparked some debate, the audience and Healy were able to openly discuss a wide variety of topics relating to free speech.
Professor Healy’s book “The 
Great Dissent: How Oliver Wendell Holmes Changed His Mind” has won the Robert F. Kennedy Book Award. He has also written for publications such as The Atlantic, L.A. Review of Books, and The Nation. Graeve said she was not fully 
aware of the resolution when she 
made her proposal.
“Clearly [the resolution] didn’t 
result in a name change, ” Graeve said. “So I figured, well some 
attempt was made but let’s give it a 
second attempt. Let’s see if this one with broad campus involvement can result in finally a name change that 
everyone can support. ”
Graeve noted that Cesar Chavez 
is Latino, and thus falls into the 
resolution’s advocacy of a person of color, although he is not female. However, Graeve believes that specific parameters should not 
dictate how the college is named.“ A decision made strictly and 
only on gender and race is not 
appropriate,” Graeve said. “It is 
about everything that involves that 
one person and what that person 
represents. ”
Next steps
According to Figueroa and 
Arriola, some A.S. Council 
constituents have expressed interest 
in having Sixth College being 
named after Frida Kahlo. However, Figueroa said that there have been 
no formal discussions about the renaming of Sixth College in A.S. Council this year until Graeve’s proposal surfaced.
Figueroa also stated that there 
is no formal process for renaming a college, but that A.S. Council will support whatever decision SCSC makes.
“I would let Sixth College admin, 
SCSC, and Sixth College students 
really take charge of the renaming 
process, and I see it as our role 
as A.S. [Council] to advocate for 
them and support them with the resources and whatever else they 
need, ” Figueroa said.
According to Figueroa, A.S. 
Council is working to institute a 
formal process for renaming the 
college. 
certainly not take a quarter abroad 
during their team’s season, which is the only time of year their eligibility 
would be affected, and the off-
season for water polo is still rather intense training wise,” Asplund said. “I don’t think any of our team members would want to miss that 
much time. ”May and Heather Ledezma, the 
athletics department’s assistant 
director of business operations, told the Guardian that they are hoping to work with the International Center 
in order to create an alternative. 
Their goal is to form a program similar to Study Abroad that allows athletes the opportunity to travel overseas without conflicting with 
their commitments to their teams. This would mean that athletes wouldn’t need huge donations from 
private donors but would have to fund their trips themselves.
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
NOVEMBE R 17,  201 7 • 8PM
TOWN SQU ARE  & MA TTHEWS  QUAD
WITH P ERF ORMA NCES B Y
GOLDL INK
PHA M
COURT SHIP.
FRE E FOOD , CA RNIV AL RIDES, & MUSIC
HULLABALOO.U CSD .EDU
Figueroa: There Is No Formal Process for Renaming the Colleges
Athletes’ Schedules Complicate Studying Abroad, Even During SummersShagun Khare  shkare@ucsd.edu
Tyler Faurot   tfauort@ucsd.edu▶ SIXTH COLLEGE, from page 1
▶ WATER POLO from page 1Some Debate Occured During the Question Period
▶ FREE SPEECH, from page 1
Madeline Leon  lm7leon@ucsd.edu@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb 4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
AARTHI VENKAT
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Despite the best efforts of the men in power, 
victims of sexual assault have been emerging 
in the past few decades to expose their often 
famous assailants. The most recent wave of these 
exposures has taken place in the entertainment industry, namely allegations against Harvey 
Weinstein and Kevin Spacey but involving 
other personalities as well. This is undoubtedly 
a victory, a step in the right direction, to 
confronting the mass problem of sexism and sexual violence in our society. Their position 
as creators, however, also leaves an interesting 
question: how should the art that these people 
created and/or continue to create be approached?
Art creation, by its very nature, is a deeply 
personal process and so in order to truly understand art one usually has to contextualize 
it with the author’s life and times. The key 
words here however are “truly understand” and 
the reality is that most of us do not wish to do that. Most people are not writing dissertations 
when they consume media. Rather they are 
utilizing it to, in some manner, escape reality. The 
enjoyment of these pieces is separated from the 
artist regardless of what their intention may have been because art, once presented into the world, belongs to those who experience it. To interpret it 
as a reflection of the artist’s mind may be correct, 
it might even make their art seem hypocritical or 
insincere, but that is not everyone’s immediate or 
even total interpretation. 
Furthermore, it is possible to be aware of 
the sordid background life that artists lead and 
not feel morally obligated to denounce their art 
simply because it is a product of their mind. 
This is not to say that we should forget about the involvement of those people but rather that 
separating them from the products they create 
makes sense. Most people, for example, continue 
to listen to John Lennon’s music despite the fact 
that he was accused of domestic violence. The danger in enjoying the art these people make is 
found in forgetting that they have committed 
these crimes in order to enjoy the art. The 
glorification of the creators lends them the power 
that allowed them to perpetrate these crimes in the first place. So to declare art as independent of 
artist, one also has to agree that praise has to be 
placed on the art not on the artist. 
Some may argue however that in consuming 
media that involved heinous people, consuming 
is itself support, at the very least financially. This argument fades into the harsh reality that 
although art is independent of the artist, the 
commodification of art as a product in the free 
market makes it intrinsically linked to the people 
that produce it. When choosing to consume one can do so with the knowledge that although 
they are supporting said artists, they are also 
supporting everyone else that worked in those 
productions. One could also choose to consume 
opportunistically, once the artist has died or in a situation in which the media in question 
will be consumed regardless of one’s presence. 
Purchasing the art from a secondhand source, 
such as at a used store, is another way one can 
continue to enjoy these art sources without benefitting their creators. The nature of art is 
such that one should not feel guilty for enjoying 
or having enjoyed the art created by criminals, 
but the reality that links art and artist in a for-
profit loop leads to an unfortunate truth: to be a patron of this art is to be a patron of these 
artists. The only way to have something akin to 
socially conscious capitalism is for the society 
to consume consciously, regardless of what the 
consumers feelings toward the product may be.Conscientious  
Consumption :
Separating  Art  
from Artist
BY ADRIANA BARRIOS 
 //  SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Frankly, volunteering is not always fun. Before college, I volunteered at the Center 
for Refugee Children. Sometimes it was dull, frustrating, or even dangerous, but it was also rewarding. It was rewarding to see the progress your students make in language and math, to see them grateful and excited. Looking back I can see that the value of that experience is in the fact that it was not about me, not about volunteers at all; it was always about our children. 
However, an entirely different experience awaited me at UC San Diego. At UCSD I tried 
to get involved with Alternative Breaks. The first thing that surprised and disappointed me was that their projects seemed to be volunteer-oriented rather than issue-oriented.  Looking through the Alternative Breaks @ UCSD site, one can spot a lot of conversation about raising “lifelong socially active and globally conscious leaders” and many photos of volunteers. However, one will not be able to find much about which issues the organization tries to tackle or which results it had achieved. This is not surprising since organizations such as Alternative Breaks are only disguised as philanthropic organizations when in fact, they are social clubs for UCSD students.
Such a self-misrepresentation results in 
systemic inefficiencies in both local and global efforts. For instance, in an Alternative Breaks program called Alternative Weekends in which I participated, only two out of 10 hours were spent on actual service while the rest of the time was devoted to various social activities. The same inefficiency can be demonstrated in Alternative Breaks’ international efforts. Students dispatched by the program to Ecuador spend a lot of money on transportation and accommodation while bringing little to no change since they lack necessary language skills for social work or physical preparation for hard labor. 
Such false advertising is not uncommon among “philanthropy” organizations. 
Rotaract, V olunteering Programs in Women’s Center, Human Trafficking Awareness Programs, and many others are posing themselves as volunteering programs while in fact, they are social clubs. Apart from the above-mentioned systemic inefficiencies, some philanthropic organizations can never pick the right tone for the conversation on serious issues. For example, Rotaract conducted a Polio Awareness Program in which volunteers were supposed to guess Polio-related statistics by putting the right number of Skittles candies into a cup. People were laughing, screaming, and applauding when getting the correct answer and in the process, everybody forgot that every candy denotes thousands of children crippled, paralyzed, or killed by the disease.  
This tone is more harmful than it may seem at first sight. It trivializes and dehumanizes 
the issues discussed, which leads students and organizations to overestimate their impact on serious issues and underestimate the necessity for community intervention. As a result, despite the abundance of organizations on campus protecting and supporting women affected by sexual abuse, I arrived at UCSD in severe depression, struggling with PTSD, but could not get any help on campus. 
The fact that social clubs on campus 
disguise themselves as philanthropic organizations harms campus philanthropy. However, there are ways to fix this. 
First and foremost, no social club 
should disguise itself as a philanthropy organization. Contrary to common belief, a disguise as a social club does not help attract more people to volunteering. It, on the contrary, drives people who are already passionate and are willing to put an effort away, and it turns volunteering into a silly game which does not benefit anybody. I do not think that those social clubs should be eliminated. They are in fact playing a crucial role on campus providing students with opportunities for meaningful socialization, 
for getting leadership experience, and for starting their careers. However, it would lead to a better outcome if those organizations were reformed into either solely volunteering organizations indeed focused on issues they tackle, or into social clubs where people have a fun time hanging out. 
Secondly, to achieve a goal of raising active citizens pursued by UCSD, we should 
expose students to work which will indeed make a difference. After, they will be able to see the results, even if this work will be sometimes dull and draining. 
Finally, instead of creating a distorted image that volunteering is always fun while not 
necessarily efficient, the campus should create an awareness program educating student organizations on essential criteria for a high-standard philanthropic organization. Such a program would help students make smart decisions when donating money, involving themselves with organizations, and maybe starting their own.
Contrary to common belief, a disguise 
as a social club does not help attract 
more people to volunteering. It, on the 
contrary, drives people who are already 
passionate and are willing to put an 
effort away, and it turns volunteering 
into a silly game which does not benefit 
anybody.Self-Serving Community Service
BY REVEKKA GERSHOVICH //  SENIOR STAFF WRITERPHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIXORStudents who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents
can submit the FAFSA online at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA, 
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:www.fafsa.ed.gov
  
Note:  You will be asked to provide 2016 Income Tax information when filing your 2018-19 FAFSA or Califonia  
Dream Act Application.  FAFSA filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
FOR FINANCIAL AID 2018-19REAPPLY NOW
Use UCSD school co de 001317.
Use UCSD school code 001317. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 534-4480.Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or
California Dream Act Application is MARCH 2, 2018With the holiday season in full swing, we 
have a lot to be thankful for. Dining Dollars is 
not one of them.
Presented almost as a “gift” to its students, 
Dining Dollars is advertised by UCSD 
Housing Dining Hospitality with the utmost 
enthusiasm. Within the finer print, however, we 
find that Dining Dollars have eyes bigger than 
their stomachs. According to HDH, “Dining 
Dollars expire at the end of summer, are non-refundable, non-transferable … and do not 
carry over to the next academic year.” Further, 
Dining Dollars “will not support three meals 
a day, seven days a week.” Not to mention 
less than 30 percent of UC San Diego’s own 
eateries accept this school-required currency. 
Yet, we have an honest savior: Triton 
Cash. With over 60 locations, both on and 
off campus, there’s more to be merrier about. Off-campus vendors and even our own 
dining halls incentivize us to use Triton Cash, 
offering 10-20 percent discounts. Your Triton 
Cash balance will also roll over to subsequent 
years, and you can recharge them as much as 
you want, whenever you want. In every way, 
Triton Cash is far superior to Dining Dollars. 
Now, the university and HDH may argue 
that it grants us Dining Dollars as a student failsafe. A means to make sure students have guaranteed money for food and for funding 
other HDH activities.
The Grinch’s excuse for stealing Cindy 
Lou Who’s Christmas tree is more palatable. 
Dining Dollars is a worthless currency 
when compared to Triton Cash, which, 
shockingly, also keeps its students fed. If the 
university truly cared about student hunger 
and food insecurity, why not invest in an all-you-can-eat program, like the University of 
Massachusetts-Amherst and University of 
Virginia?
In reality, the university takes a page out 
of Geisel’s book with its own Dining Dollars 
ploy. Its heart is three sizes too small when it 
comes to our food services program and has 
ulterior motives. Dining Dollars is a revenue 
source for HDH’s own workshop. It’s a sneaky expense wrapped up like a gift. And like 
Cindy-Lou Who’s Christmas tree, we already 
have a program that works glowingly. With 
more locations, superior discounts, greater 
freedom, less restrictions, transparent costs, 
and overall better bang for your buck, Triton 
Cash is what we should be thankful for this 
holiday season. UCSD Housing Dining Hospitality 
operates as a zero-sum institution. This means it is entirely funded by housing 
and dining plan payments, and that all the 
proceeds go back into the HDH system. 
Comparing the prices of products on and 
off campus easily evidences the steep 
markup that HDH levies on its merchandise. 
While this seems capitalistic to some, the 
markup is intended to fund all the additional 
services provided by HDH. These services include, but are not limited to, heating and 
air, cleaning and maintenance, and Wi-Fi. 
Essentially, housing fees do not cover all 
the costs of housing, so mark ups at markets 
and dining halls diversify the additional 
costs across all HDH customers, students or 
otherwise. 
On-campus residents bemoan the 
purchase of Dining Dollars without considering what the system would look 
like without them. Removing the dining 
plan would compel disadvantaged students 
to choose between educational and living 
expenses and food. Dining Dollars require 
that students allocate funds toward food 
costs knowing that many would miss meals 
otherwise. Also, Dining Dollars can be paid in advance as part of a loan disbursement. While this increases loan amounts, it also ensures that students are able to eat while 
spreading out a year’s worth of food costs 
over the course of several years.
Removing Dining Dollars would 
severely cut the budget around which HDH 
operates. So, to maintain the housing and 
services they provide now, UCSD would 
either have to radically increase housing 
fees, or drastically increase prices across all HDH facilities. Most of the burden to 
compensate for this decrease in funds would 
then fall on on-campus students.
Triton Cash has been offered as an 
alternative, but frankly it differs marginally 
from compelling students to pay for meals 
out-of-pocket. Triton Cash intends to be a 
means for parents and the administration to 
gift funds they know will go directly to food or educational expenses. This is why the 
administration provides a slight discount, 
to supplement existing funds. In a system 
without Dining Dollars, Triton Cash offers 
only nominal relief to an already harsh food 
insecurity problem.
BY GAVIN D’ELIA  //  CONTRIBUTING WRITER BY CHRIS ROBERTSON  //  ASSOCIATE EDITORQUICK-TAKESOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Are Dining Dollars Well-Intentioned or Exploitative? 
Dining Dollars Ensure Students Have a Means of  Accessing 
Food, While Also Covering Additional Costs of  Housing Triton Cash Better Meets the Nutritional Needs of  Students 
Without Feeding Into the Exploitable HDH System
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Every Tuesday evening, in the rehearsal hall of the music building, a 
group of musicians is preparing to transport their audience to a galaxy 
far, far away. 
Those musicians, along with their director Matt Kline, make up the 
UC San Diego Chamber Orchestra. Though the word “chamber” makes it sound like a small group, the ensemble is really just a smaller version of a full orchestra made up of strings, woodwinds, brass, and more. On the 
concert program this quarter is John Williams’ “Star Wars. ” The group has 
been around for about 10 years and Kline enjoys the opportunity to share some of his favorite classical pieces with his students.
“Ever since I was 12 years old, I loved playing the standard classical 
repertoire in orchestras, 
which was Beethoven, 
Mozart, Brahms, Tchaikovsky, [and] Mahler,” Kline said. 
“My undergrad major 
was in composition, and the reason I’m at UCSD is primarily to do experimental classical 
repertoire, but getting to 
work with this orchestra on composers like Mozart and Schubert is 
so necessary for me. ”
Kline’s favorite part about leading this group of musicians is seeing 
their enthusiasm and love for music. The class doesn’t fulfill any general 
education or music minor requirements. As a result, every student who is part of the orchestra has a love for music, a desire to play in an orchestra, 
and the motivation to practice diligently to perfect their repertoire.
“I just love working with people who are choosing to be there. Every 
single student is there because this is something they want to do, ” Kline 
said. “I can’t think of a more exciting place to be, to work with people who want to be there. I get to impart something that is very exciting to me. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore economics major Sydney 
Chalpin started playing the flute in fourth grade and loved being part of marching band in high school. She was glad to find an opportunity to continue her music in college.
“The people are amazing, the director is amazing, and the pieces we 
play are fantastic, ” Chalpin said. “Matt puts a lot of faith in us. He trusts 
us. He picks very involved pieces that are very challenging, but I have a lot 
of fun playing them. ”
Giuliana Sidhu, a sophomore biology major from Revelle College, 
agrees that the orchestra, though it requires time and effort, offers a nice 
break from the stress of other classes. She decided to minor in music and 
find a way to continue playing in an ensemble after being introduced to the cello at a young age.
“My elementary orchestra teacher played the Harry Potter theme on 
the cello for me, and I 
fell in love with it. I was 
like, ‘I want to play that, ’” remembered Sidhu. “So I learned the cello. I had 
invested so much time in 
it, and I enjoy it. I didn’t want to stop playing music in college; I wanted to continue it along with 
my other studies. ”
In addition, playing 
challenging classical 
repertoire with other 
musicians has proven to 
be a bonding experience. The camaraderie between students in the group 
is evident even after observing one rehearsal. During the break, two violinists pulled out a piece they had been working on together and started practicing. Stand partners compared notes on their music, and friends 
chatted with each other before rehearsal and walked home together after 
it finished. 
“There’s a group of us who used to live in Revelle, and we would walk 
to and from rehearsal every week, ” Chalpin said. “We went out to dinner a few times, and we still talk; I liked that a lot. ”
The chamber orchestra has a particularly fun assignment this quarter The UC San Diego 
Chamber Orchestra 
offers students a 
chance to continue 
playing music in college, make new friends who share 
their interests, and 
play an exciting 
repertoire.
by Charlotte Armstrong // 
Contributing 
Writer
“We played ‘The Marriage of Figaro, ’ 
and Matt had fifteen opera singers 
come sing, ” Chalpin recalled. “It was 
one of the coolest moments of my life. 
The crowd was just going crazy at the 
end of it. ”
SeeCHAMBER ORCHESTRA , page 7
Music to their Ears: The Chamber 
Orchestra T ackles  "St ar W ars"FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
— to learn John Williams’ “Star Wars” score. Fans and 
non-fans alike can instantly recognize the sound of “The Imperial March, ” “Yoda’s Theme, ” and the famous main 
title. The musicians all know how the music should 
sound when performed in tune and in time, so they have 
extra motivation to perfect every note.
“Who doesn’t love ‘Star Wars’?” Kline said, a big fan 
of the films. “There are a lot of film scores that are great 
in their own right, but I never feel they work as well in 
a concert setting. ‘Star Wars’ is not that way; it’s a very 
well-crafted piece. It’s hard, but the students have it in their psyche. I don’t really have to say how certain things go, because they know the piece. ”
Also on the program for the chamber orchestra’s 
concert is Sergei Prokofiev’s “Peter and the Wolf, ” a symphonic storytelling session originally written for children. Likely Prokofiev’s most well-known work, “Peter and the Wolf ” is a story is narrated by a speaker 
and illustrated by the musicians. Kline’s goal was to 
create a concert of pieces that told a story. “Star Wars” and “Peter and the Wolf ” do just that.
The chamber orchestra will perform their end-of-
the-quarter concert on Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the concert hall of the Conrad Prebys Music Center. Kline and his musicians think everyone should come see it, “Star Wars” fan or not. 
“This group sounds amazing, ” Kline said proudly. 
“The group always sounds good, but there’ s something about the concert that is different. Even when I step up to the podium, there’s this new energy and excitement. ”
Chalpin’s favorite memory from her time in the chamber orchestra last year is one of the concerts. Her face lights up as she describes a successful performance and the crowd on their feet.
“We played ‘The Marriage of Figaro, ’ and Matt had 
fifteen opera singers come sing, ” Chalpin recalled. “It 
was one of the coolest moments of my life. The crowd 
was just going crazy at the end of it. ”
It’s fun to play famous pieces like “The Marriage of 
Figaro” and “Star Wars, ” Kline agrees, but one of the 
best parts of leading the chamber orchestra is learning 
from the musicians and seeing them do the same. His enthusiasm is clear when he conducts rehearsal. His voice is exuberant, his hand motions so energetic that 
he even lets go of his conductor’s baton multiple times 
throughout the rehearsal.
“Seeing how the students react to things … There’s 
something about having to explain something to students who have never thought about music in a 
certain way, ” Kline described. “There’s a lot of stuff in 
this repertoire that I have years of experience with, but when you have to say things in a particular way to get someone to understand it, you suddenly learn more 
about why it’s important. You don’t take it for granted. 
It’s exciting.”▶ CHAMBER ORCHESTRA, from page 6
CHARLOTTE ARMSTRONG   C1armSTR@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
FAC EB O O KA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
After constantly troubling girls during the glory days of elementary school, high-school senior 
Thu never thought he’ d be the one at the receiving end this time. Split between the present and past, 
“The Girl from Y esterday” follows lovesick Thu’s endless e fforts to catch the attention of new transfer 
student, Viet An, while also detailing flashbacks of his first love, Tieu Li. It’s anything but a surprise 
when similarities between the two girls arise, but the film holds onto its vibrancy despite bordering on 
complete predictability. Twisting a tale of nostalgia, the film takes the textbook childhood love story 
— boy meets girl, boy falls in love, boy and girl part ways — and relishes in all the good parts when 
they reconnect — the chase, the flirtationship, and finally the reconciliation. 
The ending of the movie is given up before it even starts, but who watches a rom-com not expecting 
a total cliche? All tropes aside, the film provides an accurate depiction of the wonders of young love: 
funny at times and cringey at others but sugary sweet nonetheless.
—   Jahfreen  Alam
Contributing Writer
“Cardinal X” follows the story of Angie, a college freshman struggling to support herself in ’80s 
California. Confronted by mounting financial pressures, she decides to start synthesizing her own 
MDMA by exploiting her tools as a chemistry lab assistant. Her underground operation soon grows, 
and she ends up becoming a one-woman distributor for parties all along the West Coast. 
The film is semi-autobiographical, so its foundation is based upon director Angie W ang’s 
own experiences. Brutally honest, “Cardinal X” does not hold back in its depiction of troubled childhoods and working class struggles, which is shown in sharp juxtaposition to scenes of wealthy students indulging in lavish luxury. Y et between these strikingly di fferent worlds, su ffering and pain 
are painted as universal. Eye-opening, tragic, and poignant all at once, Wang’s debut film presents a 
unique and almost visceral portrayal of Chinese Americans — a darker side we rarely see in media 
today.
—   DEREK DENG
Senior Staff Writer
Told through the many eyes of the surveillance camera realm, “Dragon fly Eyes” provides 
insightful social commentary on the emphasis our society places on images. Created by editing 
together real footage taken from security and computer cameras with complementary voice-over narration, “Dragon fly Eyes” tells a compelling story. The film portrays a young woman, Qiang Ting, 
after she moves from a Buddhist temple into the city. Qiang confronts the injustices and societal 
standards of beauty — resulting in signi ficant changes regarding both how she views herself and 
how she ultimately allows others to view her. Qiang’s narration twines with the voice of her friend Ke Fan, who is determined to enact revenge on those who do her wrong — all shadowed by a sense of mystery courtesy of police analysis of security footage. It is an unconventional  film that highlights 
the limitations and dangers that come from relying too much on images, showing that recordings often do not reveal the entire story. 
—   DAISY  SCOTT
Senior Staff WriterBuddhism, one of the most prominent 
religions in the world, preaches that men should refuse worldly treasures and liberate themselves from the painful sufferings of mundane existence. None of 
the characters in “ The Great Buddha+” 
seem to take this advice to heart. Two “Taxi Stories” is an intricate film that 
speaks to the realities of class separation 
with respect to both monetary and romantic 
issues. Rather than following one uniform 
plotline, the movie is instead composed of 
three seemingly separate stories that all center 
around taxi travel in Beijing, Hong Kong, and 
Jakarta. In Beijing, a poor taxi driver confronts his internal desires and con flicts when he 
agrees to drive a wealthy, openly gay young man. In Hong Kong, a maid working for an upper-class couple struggles with unspeakable discrimination and poor working conditions in exchange for minimal financial security. 
The wife faces her own di fficulties with her 
pregnancy and marriage, and she and her maid attempt to form a connection in the span of their taxi-ride conversations. And in Jakarta, a teenage boy’s coming-of-age story unfolds as he assumes a job driving a taxi, and picks up a foreign tourist one day, leading to his first taste 
of romance. All of these stories interconnect subtly throughout the film, illustrating that 
CARDINAL XTHE GIRL FROM YESTERDAYTHE GREAT 
BUDDHA+TAXI STORIES
DRAGONFLY EYESDIRECTED BY DORIS YEUNG
DIRECTED BY 
ANGIE WANG DIRECTED BY PHAN GIA NHAT LINH
DIRECTED BY XU BINGDIRECTED BY HUANG HSIN-YAO
no matter the location or whether one is the driver 
or the driven, people will always connect through 
their problems. The way they react to or ignore their 
issues shapes their individual stories. 
—   DAISY  SCOTT
Senior Staff Writer
inept losers spend hours in a cramped hut 
watching dashcam footage, a factory builds 
a materialistic statue of the Buddha for a 
festival, and a company boss partakes in his 
prurient desires without a care for the girls that he uses. Such debauchery is a depressing 
testament to the human condition, but at the 
same time, it’s hard not to giggle.
“The Great Buddha+” satirizes the aimless 
whims and gluttonous acts that guide human 
direction. It asks us to re flect upon our 
indulgent lifestyles, because the characters 
on-screen certainly won’t. Their plight is 
merely a less-than-optimistic take on civil 
society and its actors, a farce contrasting 
the piggish rich and the incompetent poor. 
Director Huang himself guides the film, 
providing his deadpan commentary in a town 
of fools. 
—   DA VID  DE  LEONSenior Staff Writer
“Mon Mon Mon Monsters” opens the Taiwanese film showcase at UC San Diego. ILLUSTRATION BY ALLYSON LLACUNA
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORAILLUSTRATION BY 
DAVID JUAREZ
ILLUSTRATION BY DALIDA RACHEDA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
7DLM14709__REGGAE FEST/COLLEGE DAY__GUARDIAN__RUN:11_13_17__10X8
FEATURING   
On Saturday November 18th, Del Mar gets in the groove during 
Reggae Fest, featuring the positive vibes of Iration. Even better, it’s also College Day at the track. Show your valid student ID for free track admission, plus access to the college tailgate party in the Red Star Café, featuring DJs, drinks, food, and more. 
Visit DelMarRacing.com for tickets and more.SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18
7DLM14709_ReggaeFest_CollegeDay_Guardian_10x8.indd   1 10/19/17   4:20 PM“95 and 6 to Go” is a unique 
addition to the San Diego Asian 
Film Festival, with a style that is 
reminiscent of home videos. Rather 
than following an obvious plotline, 
the film has the director record her 
grandfather as he goes about his daily 
routines and conversations with her. 
She includes close-up footage of his 
shaving, eating, daily chores, and 
television-watching without entering 
the frame of the camera, allowing viewers to feel as if they are in the 
place of the granddaughter and living with this man. To allow for dialogue 
and a certain sense of a story to 
develop, the director from behind the camera asks her grandfather 
questions, including ones about his life with her grandmother, his views 
on Japanese culture, and any advice 
he might have for a screenplay she is writing. Visual variation is o ffered by 
a series of still-frame shots of ocean, 
family photos, and parts of their 
home. This, in combination with the 
familial discussions and personal 
footage, allows viewers to feel that 
they are not intruders, but rather are long-term house guests and close 
friends, garnering entertainment and 
comfortable conversations from their hosts. Overall, this is a realistically 
paced film that illustrates the 
importance of family and the need 
to bridge generational gaps to find 
wisdom and one’s roots. 
—   DAISY  SCOTT
Senior Staff Writer“Marlina the Murderer in Four Acts” 
is very much a tale of the Old West. It pays tribute to the genre with its landscapes, 
sunsets, and twangy music, but these 
hallmarks of the typical Western are 
twisted into something with a distinctive 
feminist edge. Attacked, robbed, and 
raped by seven men shortly a fter her 
husband’s death, Marlina embarks on a 
quest for justice at all costs in a system 
too unequipped and uncaring to give 
her any, all the while pursued by the 
decapitated memory of the gang’s leader. 
The stunning and arid backdrop 
of modern rural Indonesia seems 
hauntingly familiar. Marlina, traverses 
it equipped with a bloody severed 
head. The familiar archetype of a lone 
horseman embittered by a quest for revenge has now become a woman with 
equal grit and determination, but whose 
enemy is something much larger and 
systemic. Haunting, witty, and powerful, 
“Marlina” is a bold ride that refuses to 
pull any punches. 
—   CHLOE  ESSER
A&E Editorial AssistantHong Sang-soo’s “Claire’s Camera” is a breezy, unassuming meditation 
on human interaction and the dizzying e ffect of the Cannes Film Festival. 
Isabelle Huppert, in an uncharacteristically mellow role, plays Claire, a 
music teacher who believes that her camera has the power to change its 
subjects. While visiting Cannes for the debut of a friend’s film, she meets 
Manhee, a recently fired Korean film sales assistant (Kim Minhee). The two 
exchange photographs and stories over lunch, and together they navigate 
the microcosmic landscape of Cannes. Claire’s francophone presence 
necessitates English dialogue, accentuating the characters’ common 
displacement with arrhythmic conversation. “Claire’s Camera” is sometimes 
teasingly meta (seeing a dewy-eyed Huppert exclaim that she’s never been to 
Cannes before is tickling). The film’s quiet cleverness materializes gradually. 
Claire’s magical camera operates as gently parodic allegory for Sang-soo’s 
own cinematic endeavor, challenging the film’s ostensible simplicity. Just as 
Claire attempts to capture ephemeral revelations, Sang-soo does the same in a potentially futile e ffort to expose and a ffect humanity. Sang-soo abstains 
from resolution, letting his audience decide whether or not they believe in “Claire’s Camera.”
—   MA Y A  KLEIMAN
A&E Editorial Assistant
“Kita Kita (I See Y ou)” relishes in its cheesiness. The Filipino rom-com tells the 
story of a blind woman in a blossoming relationship with her next-door neighbor. 
This may seem like a typical love story, and that’s because it is. “Kita Kita” knows 
exactly what it is — cute. This film oozes sweetness from every pore. Every scene 
tops the last, and you’ d be lucky to get halfway through without experiencing the 
strongest toothache of your life. This isn’t an insult, although it may seem like one. 
“Kita Kita” does exactly what it sets out to do, and that’s to make an easy date-
night flick. The world needs more movies like “Kita Kita, ” a film that does not 
need to challenge what it means to be a film. It’s a nice break from the torrential 
downpour of pretentious, arthouse indie movies. 
—   Nolan  WillettContributing WriterThere are already countless movies about World War II, so it may be 
tempting to brush aside Ann Hui’s WWII drama, “Our Time Will Come. ” 
However, “Our Time Will Come” is a deeply personal, quietly heroic film 
based on the true story of young school teacher, Fang Lan (Zhou Xun), who leads an underground revolution in Japanese-occupied Hong Kong during the war. Along with guerrilla fighter Blackie Lae (Eddie Peng) and 
double-agent Li Jinrong (Wallace Huo), Fang Lan silently retaliates against 
the Japanese by delivering supplies and spreading propaganda. It’s a war 
movie that focuses on the emotional consequences of these resistance fighters, raising the stakes that much higher because you’re rooting for these 
people to succeed. With such inspirational characters and a healthy dose of dramatic action, “Our Time Will Come” is a touching film that gives Hong 
Kong’s unsung heroes the proper recognition they deserve.
—   ELL YSA LIM
Senior Staff Writer
CLAIRE’S CAMERA 95 AND 6 
TO GO
OUR TIME WILL COME
KITA KITA (I SEE YOU)MARLINA THE 
MURDERER IN FOUR 
ACTSDIRECTED BY HONG SANG-SOO
DIRECTED BY 
KIMI TAKESUE
DIRECTED BY ANN HUI
DIRECTED BY SIGRID ANDREA BERNARDODIRECTED BY 
MOULY SURYAILLUSTRATION BY DALIDA RACHED10                                                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 3 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G           LIFESTYLE
With the winter season approaching and temperature rapidly dropping, our skin will need 
some extra TLC to combat the decrease in humidity. As an avid skincare product lover and 
hoarder, here are five skincare products that will not dry out your skin or wallet. 
1. Glysomed Hand Cream Fragrance Free (Walgreens.com $4.19 for 1.7 fl oz.)Crabtree & Evelyn, L ’Occitane, and Ahava all offer an abundant variety of nourishing hand 
creams along with an absurd price tag. However, this underrated hand cream from Glysomed offers deep hydration for your hands just like any high-end brands. A little goes a long way and 
is best used at night due to its thickness. Scented and fragrance-free versions are available too. 
Nevertheless, a downside of this product is that it is only available to purchase online on websites such as Walgreens or Amazon. 
2. Rosebud Salve (Sephora $6 for 0.8 oz.)The classic lip balm is an amazing year-round product to keep in your backpack or next to 
the bedside. Since using this, I have not yet once experienced cracked lips during the winter. Designed to treat minor burns, this may also be used on your cuticles, knees, or elbows for quick fixes.
3.  Cetaphil Moisturizing Cream (Target $10.99 for 16 oz.)Another classic product, this body cream is not only made for the body, but can also be used 
on the face too — my sister, who has severe eczema and sensitive skin, names this as the only product she uses under her eyes. The thick cream is not only fragrance and paraben-free, it is 
also absorbed very quickly.
4. SKINFOOD Black Sugar Scrub (Ulta Beauty $14 for 3.6 oz.)Time to remove and exfoliate some dead skin cells to brighten your complexion! Some scrubs 
are known to be harsh and strip the skin’s natural oils and moisture; however, SKINFOOD’s Black 
Sugar Scrub leaves your skin feeling more hydrated and softer than before. Gently massage the 
product for a minute in a circular motion, leave it on for 10 minutes, and rinse to reveal baby smooth skin. You may also use this to lightly exfoliate your lips — just try to avoid eating it!
5. Belif The True Cream Aqua Bomb (Sephora $38 for 1.68 oz.)This moisturizer has recently been thoroughly loved and used by yours truly, despite it being 
more costly than a drugstore brand. If you have normal to combination skin, the Aqua Bomb will not leave your face feeling too heavy nor too dry like the Sahara desert. It feels like a gel moisturizer, but the level of hydration it provides is like heavy cream, leaving your skin feeling extremely soft and supple too.
Although Halloween is over, some frights can last all year for college students. Personally, one 
of them is the terrifying way my bank account seems to empty after leaving Target. Something about that bright store lighting and the smell of Starbucks coffee lures me into spending way more than any girl should be on scented candles and socks in one trip. Nevertheless, here are 
some tips to save student bank accounts from Target or any big box store.
Make a List: 
Before even considering to leave for the beautiful consumer hell that is Target, it’ s best to 
bring a list of what is needed. If not, you could find yourself wandering the aisles for hours, picking up everything except the stuff you originally come for. So while it’s nice to get a blanket 
and essential oil diffuser because an artsy Instagram blogger recommended it, don’t forget to buy a new flash drive for class.
Bring a Friend: 
Being independent is one of the greatest parts of college, but that doesn’t mean students 
should be left alone for every responsibility. I personally like to bring my roommate on Target adventures, because whether or not she realizes it, she is holding me accountable. Simply the presence of someone else will change the way you consider buying things to avoid wasting their time. Also, a shopping partner in crime will help decide whether something is really needed or not, especially when buying food in bulk which brings me to the next suggestion. 
Don’t Shop Hungry or Bored:  
This is probably the most important survival tip of Target, but also applies to Costco or 
any other grocery store. When students shop hungry, one of two things will inevitably happen. 
You might buy everything to satisfy cravings, which leads to a really long receipt at checkout 
but an empty bank account. Or, you end up buying food for one meal and getting out without actual groceries. Both are true and based on previous shopping experiences, so it’s best to eat before grocery shopping. The same concept also applies to boredom. If you are feeling bored, 
wandering around the aisles looking for something to entertain yourself seems like a good idea 
in the moment. I mean, sure, a toaster oven sounds like fun, but then it’s used twice, and added to the enormous list of stuff to move out at the end of the year.
Essentially the key to smart shopping at any store is to either go prepared or to not go. 
By being smart consumers, it can minimize some of the financial stress college students are 
burdened with. Follow these tips, and you will be destined to save some money … to then go 
and waste on Black Friday!
Beyond the pocket of La Jolla and University City are waterfront districts, creative corners, 
and historic blocks that would be a shame to miss. Don’t allow the constraints of UC San Diego to limit a perspective of one of the most beautifully diverse places in Southern California that balances the best of urban cityscapes and rural landscapes. Change up a commute to see and 
understand a bigger story San Diego wants to tell. 
DecoBike San Diego
Aiming to boost San Diego’s green scene, DecoBike is a pop up bike rental company that 
kickstarted in 2015 and boasts nearly 200 stations and 1800 bikes for residents and tourists to come and go at their convenience. For a rate of $7 per hour, or a $20 per month membership 
fee for unlimited 30-minute rides, DecoBike allows for a glimpse of city and coastline without the carbon emission. With parking stations scattered around San Diegan hotspots, like Balboa Park, Pacific Beach and the downtown Gaslamp District, simply unlock a bike at any station and return it to any station. Mimicking the likes of Portland or Melbourne, DecoBike allows a more 
eco-friendly form to canvas the city. 
The Old Town Trolley
Originally incepted in Florida during the 1970s, the Old Town Trolley Tour created a new 
way to combine public transportation, storytelling, and community building. What started with three friends and a bread truck in Key West has since evolved into an innovative tourist travel 
methodology with 180 trolleys in seven cities throughout the US. In San Diego, this 25-mile looped route visits 10 neighborhoods for a $2.50 one-way ticket — or for free with the UCSD student bus pass! — and treks over to Coronado and through Old Town with the freedom to hop on and off. 
Coronado Ferry 
Hitting the pavement or asphalt may not be everyone’s preferred mode of travel. With the 
Coronado Ferry, riders can engage with their inner Derek Shepherd and take a 15-minute ride from Broadway Pier or the Convention Center over to Coronado with scenic views of Seaport Village and San Diego’s downtown cityscape. For early commuters, rides between 5:40 a.m. to 8:50 a.m. are free; otherwise, the price to sleep in a bit comes at $4.75 for a one-way trip. Either 
way, get a new glimpse of San Diego with a glide over the bay.
HBK Adventure Tours
For those who crave a closer proximity to the Pacific, HBK Adventure Tours allow for a more 
intimate mode of travel to kayak through the caves by La Jolla, or snorkel beneath the surface. 
Snorkels come at a rental price of $10, while kayaks come at $28 for one rider and $35 for two. 
Satisfy an appetite for adrenaline with a fish eye’s perspective of San Diego. 
Chase Some Pavements
And if all else fails, pick up some sneakers and stroll the sidewalks of San Diego for a lingered 
look through the neighborhoods and ecology of San Diego’s diverse topography. Take a hike up to Cowles’ Mountain for views of the city from its highest peak, or take a walk through the urban 
arts district via Ray Street in North Park. With a diverse range of spatiality in San Diego, go and see the city as it demands to be remembered. Winter Skincare Products
How to Survive Target: Tips for a Shopaholic
A New Way to See SDBy Rebecca Tsang // Lifestyle Contributing Writer 
By Natalie Duprey // Lifestyle Contributing Writer 
By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Associate Editor 
UC San Diego has roughly 36,000 students enrolled this quarter, attracting students from 
all backgrounds and cultures from around the world. This includes students with perfect SAT 
scores, computer coding gurus, and creative individuals pursuing their dream careers. 
It can become overwhelming with the amount of people you come across in a single day. 
Maneuvering across campus during the lunch hour and attending lecture halls with over 300 people, we run into hundreds of people each day. One would think, with such a large student body, students would form new friendships on a daily basis, but in reality, most only conversate 
when they need to borrow things like a pencil or Scantron. 
With that being said, while UCSD manages to round up some of the most creative minds 
into one environment, it lacks one of the single most important parts of the college experience 
— social interaction.
As a transfer student, I came to this campus for this very reason, to connect and establish
life-long relationships with individuals from different backgrounds. But finishing my 
first quarter here, I noticed a salient problem. Everyone here is intelligent, but once students 
establish a circle of friends, they stop branching out to create new ones. 
I too have fallen victim of the social disconnect condition, whether it’s by wearing sunglasses 
and headphones while scurrying through Library Walk in an attempt to avoid being approached by organization recruiters or repeatedly scrolling through social media feeds as I wait for my classes to start.During a conversation I had with a professor, we discussed how it is now the norm for 
students to sit in class for an entire quarter next to students without introducing themselves to each other. Sharing our views, we mutually agreed that the school social aspect needs 
improvement. 
While pondering this topic for weeks, I took things upon myself to undergo an experiment 
where I would ditch my “unapproachable headphones and glasses” starter kit and put my 
communication availability on full display — whether it was walking to class or waiting for the 
next lecture to start. This observation placed me in situations that required me to get out of a 
comfort zone and initiate conversations when others were in my proximity.
The results from this Philip Zimbardo-like experiment showed a significant increase of 
social interactions across the board. Not only did I find myself having more conversations with peers, I also met potential study partners and established a relationship with a faculty member 
who offered me advice for my particular career field. 
By no means am I saying that replicating this experiment will guarantee successful 
networking conversations or promising news, but I can ensure that both you and the campus as 
a whole could benefit from transforming UCSD’s socially awkward environment. 
I propose a challenge: The next time you’re in a situation where you have the opportunity to 
introduce yourself or initiate small talk, capitalize on the opportunity and see what a difference it could make on your social life here at UCSD.UC Socially Disconnected? By Fred Grier // Lifestyle Contributing Writersign
compatibilityLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
NOVEMBER 17. 2017
Doors: 5pm • Starts: 5:30pm
The Guardian Office • Student Center Level 2SPONSORED BY KSDT
TOMO TAKINO • AMAN 
PELICAN GROOVES • SIA CHENGfeaturing
POCKET
OFFICE ATWelcome back to a new edition of Astrolog y 101, where you learn about the mystical ins 
and outs of astrology. This week’s article is about sign compatibility, specifically regarding 
friendship. A lot goes into how specific signs get along with other signs — sign elements, sign 
characteristics, moon signs, and more — but for now, we will just focus on the basic sun sign 
compatibility.
Aries and Aquarius:
Though Aries are usually paired with their fellow fire signs, (Leo and Sagittarius), they have 
incredible rapport with Aquarians. Both signs have similar personality characteristics. They are both very independent and influential. In addition, they share a common creative intelligence and an interest in more progressive action. Though Aries are more concerned with their own well-being, Aquarians can push Aries to overcome their egocentric mentality and be more considerate of others. In return, Aries remind Aquarians that they can say “no” sometimes and 
to do what is best for themselves.
Taurus and Pisces:
An unlikely pair, Taurians and Pisces have personality disparities that are actually quite 
complimentary. Taurians offer a solid foundation and emotional constancy that Pisces love and need. As an earth sign, Taurus can keep dreamy Pisces out of the clouds and in touch 
with reality. However, Taurians can be overly stubborn and frustrated at times, but Pisces’ intuitive and compassionate nature can help calm them down and give them insight into others’ perspectives. Because Pisces are so in touch with their feelings, they can help the more emotionally closed off Taurians better understand and express how they feel.
Gemini and Leo:
Geminis and Leos: a best friend match made in Heaven. This fire and air sign combination 
brings about a fun and playful duo; both share a passion for the dramatic. The intellectually stimulating Gemini makes Leo think outside of the box (and outside of their own world), 
expanding their mental boundaries. Leo, being the dominating and outgoing sign it is, will 
encourage Geminis to step out their comfort zone and make more long-lasting friendships. Though both signs enjoy being the center of attention, they balance each other out and keep each other in check.
Cancer and Scorpio:
As two water signs, Cancer and Scorpio share the same innate emotional intelligence. 
Cancers are more than capable of expressing their affection and appreciation for others, but sometimes they let others take advantage of them. Scorpios can either take advantage of this, or if they are a true friend, they can help Cancers realize their worth and make them demand the respect they deserve from others. Sometimes Scorpios allow their emotional intensity to take 
control and they begin to spiral, but Cancers can help keep Scorpios grounded and focused on 
the issues at hand.
Virgo and Capricorn:
Two very similar signs, Virgo and Capricorn both possess an intense work ethic. Striving 
toward success, they lift each other up and push the other to always do their best. Virgos’ 
detail-oriented mentality and Capricorns’ determined temperament complement each other. 
However, both signs find emotional expression difficult. This can lead to issues, but because of this similarity, most of the time they can understand how the other is feeling without saying it outright. The analytical talents of this friendship can conquer every problem put in front of 
them.
Libra and Sagittarius:
An adventurous and thrilling friendship, Libra and Sagittarius share a love for exploring the 
unknown and experiencing new things. Because of their similar interests, these signs get along 
easily and can share silence comfortably (how you know any friendship is good). Libra can also 
tame the rowdy Sagittarians, polishing their rough edges and making them more aware of what 
is considered courteous and polite to others. In turn, Sagittarians can give Libra the strength they usually would not have to try new things. Despite both having wanderlust, Libra needs coercing from Sagittarians to actually step up to the plate.
Though these are ideal friendship pairings for the signs, one can find a way to be friends with 
a person of any sign! Do not let the stars dictate your life, use them to make mysteries in your life more clear. Until next time, Astro-lovers!
By Natasha Vandamme 
// Contributing Writer101:12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG         LIFESTYLE
PUBLIC NOTICE
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), 
the University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego) proposes to 
adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) for the proposed Fire 
Station project. 
The proposed project would involve construction of an approximately 
10,500-gross square foot (GSF) two-story fire station where a tennis court 
currently exists (one of the eight comprising the campus’ North Campus 
Recreation Area Tennis Courts). The proposed project would involve the 
demolition of the existing tennis court, clearing of existing ornamental 
and landscape vegetation (including several eucalyptus trees, as well 
roadside shrubs and landscape trees), and grading of slopes, particularly 
along the eastern and southern margins of the project site. The proposed 
fire station would accommodate a standard fire station crew of 12 
personnel rotating over a 24-hour shift. The first floor of the fire station 
would include up to four drive-through fire apparatus bays, support 
spaces, and a public reception area. The second floor would include a 
kitchen and dining area, day room, and fire crew living quarters. The 
proposed fire station would also include one elevator and staircase, and 
infrastructure for security systems (e.g. Blue Light/Intercom, campus 
phone, alarm system, etc.). Exterior improvements would include an 
emergency generator, flagpole, mailbox, fire hydrant, trash enclosure, 
signage, security fencing, fueling facilities, truck wash area, paved hose 
drying area, and drought tolerant landscaping. The proposed project 
would include approximately 16 gated parking spaces for firefighter use 
and three public parking spaces, including at least one Americans with 
Disabilities Act (ADA)-compliant space.
Based on the Initial Study (IS) prepared for the project, it has been 
determined that the project would not have a significant effect on the 
environment that cannot be mitigated. Therefore, an MND will be 
issued. Copies of the Draft IS/MND may be viewed at: 
http://plandesignbuild.ucsd.edu/planning/environmental.html  or by 
contacting the UC San Diego Campus Planning Office, 9500 Gilman 
Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0074, (858) 534-6515. Public review of the 
Draft IS/MND will extend from November 7, 2017 to December 7, 
2017. Any comments regarding the accuracy of the Draft IS/MND 
should be directed to the UC San Diego Campus Planning Office at the 
above address.
We bid Puerto Princesa a goodbye on the morning of our third day and headed north, toward 
the top of the island. After an eventful six hour car ride, in which the air conditioner completely 
stopped working and our van almost broke down, we arrived—mostly whole—at our second Palawan destination, El Nido. 
When I travel with my mom, the first thing she always does to situate herself is to walk around the 
area. As a kid, this was met with reluctant faces and dragging feet — my brother and I were forced away 
from our video game worlds into real life — but as I grew older, I began to treasure the act of being 
outside, and the conversations my mom and I would have along the way. It became our little tradition 
and our way of introducing ourselves to a new place. 
Our hotel was situated right in the heart of bustling El Nido. We first ventured further into the town, 
sniffing the sweet scents that floated into the air from bakeries, mouths agape at the towering limestone 
that enveloped the village. 
We then turned around and walked toward the ocean. I didn’t bring my camera to the Philippines 
since I knew we would be close to the water and I didn’t want it to get wet, but this was the moment that 
made me wish I had brought it. The sun was just beginning to set as we approached the beach, peppered 
with rocks and corals. The water mirrored the sky and mountains on its still surface. Local children 
played in the sea, jumping off bancas, and fishermen trekked back from a long day’s hard work. It was 
a sight to behold, so pure and untouched by the rest of the world. Describing it in words doesn’t do the scene justice — all my mom and I could do was soak it in and attempt to implant the image in our brains. 
The next day, we set off in a motorboat on an island hopping tour. At our first stop, we climbed 
into kayaks and rowed through a small opening into a little pool surrounded by stone walls — the appropriately named “Small Lagoon. ” Clear jellyfish camouflaged themselves near the ocean surface 
and little fish and crabs stuck close to the sides. We then sailed off to a stretch of coral reef to snorkel — 
from above the water, you’ d never expect the colorful ecosystem that thrives down below. Schools of fish 
rushed by and silver fish, as long as my arm, stayed a distance away, eyeing me as I paddled past, doing 
my best to not kick the corals. Our last stop was Seven Commandos beach, where we slurped up halo-
halos and I jumped off a tree in a rope-net mechanism that swung me over the beach and the ocean.Tales of a Philippine Life: Belonging in El Nido By Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
El Nido attracts a lot of tourism, especially from Europe. Perhaps my most interesting dining 
experience was Trattoria Altrove, an Italian restaurant near our hotel. Before entering the restaurant, 
the workers asked us to take off our shoes, and we were led to table close to the floor with pillows to 
sit on. Since we were relatively far from Europe, I didn’t expect the food to be very good, but I savored 
my fire oven pizza and carbonara. Afterwards, we bought gelato and sorbet from a vendor on the way 
back to our hotel. Seeing this multicultural mix and the diversity that existed in the town made El Nido 
a really special place to be. 
We spent our last day lounging on the beach. My little cousin is a natural storyteller, and as we 
walked along the shoreline, she made up stories for the hermit crabs that we saw scuttling among the rocks. I drew a square in the sand and she dubbed it the “Hermit Crab Town Square, ” and we placed 
rocks and corals to create a little town. She got over her initial fear of touching the crabs, and by the 
end of the day, she was handling the “mayor, ” a huge hermit crab with a white shell almost as big as her hand, telling him to stop escaping. It’s rare nowadays for people my age to stretch imagination 
like that, so it was incredibly fun to suspend reality and live among the hermit crabs for a little while.
In our last few hours, my mom and I wandered the streets, looking for Midtown Bakery, the most 
famous in the town. Just as we were about to give up, we chanced upon it on a side road and excitedly 
grabbed pastries for only two pesos each, less than five American cents. We chomped on pan de coco and spanish bread and egg pies as our airplane began to take off, ending our Palawan adventure. 
Traveling within your own country gives you a feeling different from traveling anywhere else. It’s 
almost like I had a strange sense of belonging, though I’ d never been to Palawan before. I couldn’t help thinking that some part of me came from this island life that I’m so removed from — a girl on those islands and I could not lead more different lives, but, at the end of the day, we’re from the same language, the same culture, the same land that we both call home. 
Inspired by my recent trip to the Philippines, Tales of a Philippine Life is a weekly column exploring 
culture, family, mindsets, home, and more. If you’ d like to read the other pieces in this column, please 
visit http://ucsdguardian.org/category/lifestyle-2/. If you’ d like to see more pictures of my trip, check 
out @storiesnstills on Instagram. 
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ASCE PRESENTS  HULLABALOO 2017Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 13 - NOV 192017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN11.17 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org4pm
ON LEAVE: MATERNITY LEAVE 
AROUND THE WORLD - GLOBAL 
FORUM - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
An interaction discussion on the realities and 
restrictions of parental leave around the world. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: 
http://tinyurl.com/1115GlobalForum. Contact: 
globalforumihouse@ucsd.edu
7pm
THE GREEN COCKATOO BY 
ARTHUR SCHNITZLER DIRECTED BY MARCO BARRICELLI - 
MANDELL WEISS FORUM
It's July 14th, 1789, Paris. The city is in an 
uproar and the political/social life is on the 
very brink of enormous changes ... changes 
that will affect the entire world from then on. 
A rag-tag theatrical group is performing their 
improvised show for some of the aristocracy. 
At a certain moment no one is sure if the frenzied performers are screaming real insults 
at the nobility as part of the show, or if they 
are finally telling them their cathartic truth 
about the burgeoning revolution and the overthrow of the aristocracy. Arthur Schnitzler 
was an Austrian author and dramatist. 
Schnitzler's works were often controversial, 
both for their frank description of sexuality and for their strong stand against 
anti-Semitism. Contact: mmaltby@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE BEAT CONCERT - THE LOFT
Come out and watch your favorite acapella 
group The Beat perform at Wednesday, November 15th! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu1:30pm
LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES FOR 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS - UCSD CAREER SERVICES CENTER, HORIZON ROOM
Looking for an internship or leadership position? 
Want to become a Residential Assistant (RA) or Orientation Leader (OL)? Come out to this event to 
meet and learn from experienced peers and staff 
who are recruiting! Free food and refreshments will 
be provided! See you there! Contact: shtung@ucsd.edu
6pm
LIVING A TOBACCO-FREE LIFE - 
GREEN TABLE ROOM, PRICE CENTER 
WEST
Many people, including smokers, know smoking is 
bad for their health, but why do smokers have a 
hard time quitting? Some may say they have trouble 
quitting because smoking helps relieve their stress, but does it really? These questions will be addressed at this presentation on 11/13 at 6PM. Free Chipotle and giftcards will be provided for participation in this event! RSVP here to guarantee 
food: tinyurl.com/smokefreeucsd. Contact: 
xyhan@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
SMINO W/ TOBI LOU - THE STAGE ROOM @ STUDENT CENTER
UCSD Students: $17, General Admission (Indoor): 
$20, General Admission (Patio): $17. Tickets On-Sale Soon: ucsdboxoffice.com. Smino: For Fans Of: Isaiah Rashad, GoldLink, Monte Booker. St. Louis rapper/singer Smino combines hip-hop with funk and soul influences, much like contemporaries Isaiah Rashad, Saba, and Ab-Soul. He was raised by a family of musicians that provided early exposure to jazz, blues, and gospel music, which he would go on to blend with his own influences Kanye West and Dungeon Family. Following the release of his debut album 'blkswn' and a sold-out headlining tour, Smino will be joining SZA and T-Pain on the road this Fall. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu5:30pm
6TH ANNUAL TAIWAN FILM 
SHOWCASE - PRICE CENTER THEATER
The 2017 San Diego Asian Film Festival proudly 
presents the 6th Annual Taiwan Film Showcase! For the sixth year in a row, the San Diego Asian Film Festival presents the Taiwan Film Showcase, the biggest annual presentation of Taiwanese cinema outside of Asia. Every year, the Showcase highlights the diversity of perspectives, languages, stories, and genres by feature-length and short filmmakers in Taiwan today. All films are presented at the UCSD Price Center Theater and are FREE for UCSD students, faculty, and staff. For more on these films and the rest of the films presented at the 2017 San Diego Asian Film Festival, visit sdaff.org
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 7 - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, 
and Friday! Come to learn and practice 
languages, exchange culture weekly, and to 
connect with students from all over the world! 
Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see 
you there! See the URL to see which languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: >a 
href="http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall">http://tinyurl.co
m/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
WHAT OF THE NIGHT? BY MARIA 
IRENE FORNES DIRECTED BY KATIE PEARL - SHEILA AND HUGHES 
POTIKER THEATRE
What of the Night?, a Pulitzer Prize finalist, offers 
a panoramic view into the spiritual and economic poverty of 20th and 21st century United States. Taking place over a 60-year span and following four individual family members through four linked plays, What of the Night? lifts the lid off societal oppression to expose the unstoppable humans within. Maria Irene Fornes is a Cuban-American avant-garde playwright, director, and master teacher whose plays and playwriting classes influenced an entire generation of theater artists. As a leading figure of the Off-Off-Broadway movement in the 1960s, Fornes broke open conventions of theater making, shocking and delighting New York audiences with bold, surprising work that continually redefined itself. Contact: mmaltby@ucsd.edu 
7:30pm
WHAT OF THE NIGHT? BY MARIA 
IRENE FORNES DIRECTED BY 
KATIE PEARL - SHEILA AND 
HUGHES POTIKER THEATRE
What of the Night?, a Pulitzer Prize finalist, 
offers a panoramic view into the spiritual and economic poverty of 20th and 21st century United States. Taking place over a 60-year span and following four individual family members through four linked plays, What of the Night? lifts the lid off societal oppression to expose the unstoppable humans within. 12pm
WOMENABROAD - WOMEN’S 
CENTER
Join us for a casual, intersectional dialogue about the Women experience abroad. We will have recently returned Women-identifying study abroad and international students share about their time abroad and we welcome your questions and stories from your own experience! Contact: andrajacques@ucsd.edu
5pm
EXPORTING & EXPLOITING LABOR - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER 
COMMUNIDAD
Join our discussion of the exportation of factories 
and outsourcing of labor to 'developing' countries. How do big corporations we buy from evade the restrictions and regulations of the nations they are based in and what effect does this have abroad? Contact: mzubaidi@ucsd.edu
7pm
DVC PRESENTS: THROWBACK 
THURSDAY - THE LOFT
DVC gon' give it to you... It's going down with some 
throwback sounds. We're gonna pop, lock, and drop it like it's hot with some funky beats and hip-hop classics.Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu8pm
COMEDY IMPROV SHOW BY 
SLIPPERY WHEN WET - HSS 1330
Join long-form improvisation team Slippery When 
Wet for a night of laughs. See improv magic before your very eyes as team members act out comedic scenes, making them up on the spot as they go. Show starts at 8 p.m. on November 17. The show is free. Check out the Slippery When Wet Facebook page @cautiondontslip for show details. Contact: slipperyw2@gmail.com
6pm
ASCE PRESENTS HULLABALOO 2017 
- TOWN SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUAD
LYou won't want to miss this night of delicious 
free food, thrilling rides, and live musical performances! Come EAT, PLAY & DANCE at Hullabaloo 2017! Contact: ascefestivals@ucsd.eduTUE11.14
THU11.16SAT11.18MON 11.13
FRI11.17WED11.15
7pm
THE GREEN COCKATOO BY 
ARTHUR SCHNITZLER DIRECTED BY MARCO BARRICELLI - 
MANDELL WEISS FORUM
It's July 14th, 1789, Paris. The city is in an 
uproar and the political/social life is on the very brink of enormous changes ... changes that will affect the entire world from then on. A rag-tag theatrical group is performing their improvised show for some of the aristocracy. At a certain moment no one is sure if the frenzied performers are screaming real insults at the nobility as part of the show, or if they are finally telling them their cathartic truth about the burgeoning revolution and the overthrow of the aristocracy. SUN11.19TOWN SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUADFRIDAY
GOLDLINK14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
DID YOU KNOW?
NOV 15 National Fast Food DayCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Storage containers
5. Wanderer10. Wound covering
14. Stratford-on-____
15. Chicago’s airport
16. Bridge charge17. ____ Kudrow of “Friends”18. Kind of infection
19. Detroit product
20. Prophets
22. Southern veggie23. Door feature24. Items of value
26. Stakes
28. Jennifer ____ of “Friends”
31. Ostrich’s kin34. Roadside problem (2 wds.)38. Fables
40. Assists
41. Singing voice
44. Mete (out)45. Not appropriate47. Ship harbors49. Salesperson, briefly50. Intense fire53. More docile55. Until now (2 wds.)60. Old wound62. ____ and tear65. Kingly66. City vehicles67. Double curves69. Actor Brad ____70. Norwegian city71. Insulting72. Butter substitute73. Now and ____74. Browned bread75. Coastal birdDOWN
 1. Hobby wood2. Climbing vines3. Snouts
4. Type of drum
5. It follows Oct.
6. Cleveland’s locale7. Grade8. Biblical mountain
9. Part of FDR
10. Ante
11. Camp leader12. Choir voice13. Shapeless mass
21. Medical “at once!”
25. Bad mood
27. Explosive (abbr.)29. Intense anger30. Feel
32. Dissolve
33. Avails oneself of
34. Impartial35. Fishing string36. Flexible37. Chef’s unit (abbr.)39. Busy activity42. Above, poetically43. Rave’s partner46. Actor ____ Robbins48. Penniless51. Most modern52. California city54. Fiery felony56. Bus station57. Spry58. Spud59. Singer ____ John60. Aberdeen native61. Singer Johnny ____63. China’s continent64. Nail polish shades68. ImmovableHOUSING
Aztec Campus Apartment  $2450-$2655. 
5650 Hardy Ave., San Diego, CA 92115. We have cozy three bedroom, two bath floor plans! We are right next to SDSU. You will enjoy amenities that include on-site laun -
dry, reserved parking, electric stove, dish-washer and a ceiling fan. Conveniently located in the heart of the college area, you will find shopping centers, banks, a library, schools, freeways and more! Stop by today for your personal tour. This infor -
mation is general in nature and for pro-motional purposes only. Accuracy of the information is not guaranteed, including but not limited to apartment size, layout, features, amenities, location, common areas, parking, or neighborhood. Please contact leasing personnel for further information. Please feel free to ask for assistance with respect to any disability related needs........ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds for more information
Casa Mira View $1850- $3200. 9800 Mira 
Lee Way, San Diego, CA 92126. Welcome home to Casa Mira View in San Diego, CA, a newly developed apartment commu -
nity offering one, two and three bedroom apartment homes with custom kitchen counter height, neutral color palette, pri-vate patios or balconies, central heating & air, full sized washer and dryer, generous closet, linen & storage space, full appli-ance package that includes stainless steel range, microwave, dishwasher & refrigera-tor, icemakers, kitchen pantries, parking is on the same level as your unit, central-ized mail and message center, expansive patios/balconies available with storage.A merry go round and train for the children, life sized chess boards, 4 lane bowling center and professionally designed skate park are but a few of the fabulous ameni -
ties offered. Conveniently located off I-15 in Scripps Corridor, the community boasts great shopping, dining, and entertain -
ment. Just minutes from MCAS Miramar, University Towne Center Mall, downtown San Diego, beautiful beaches and La Jolla, we provide you with the convenience you’ve been looking for. We look forward to your joining us at Casa Mira View!.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
La Jolla International Gardens $1645-
$2555. 3417 Lebon Drive, San Diego CA, 92122. The art of living comes alive at La Jolla International Gardens located in La Jolla/UTC area of San Diego, CA. La Jolla International Gardens treats you to a wealth of executive appointments featuring our Newly Renovated 1 & 2 bedroom apartment homes. Your back -
drop: dramatic vaulted ceilings, a roman-tic wood-burning fireplace, breezy patios (on select units) and large master suites with walk-in closets; all providing an open and airy canvas to complement your life -
style. A resort-style fitness haven has been designed to meet your quest for fun and activity. Work out in our complete gym with Nautilus and aerobic equipment, swim in our heated lap pool, or simply relax in a bubbly jacuzzi. Entertain guests in our game room, complete with wet bar, kitchen and pool table. There’s no need to call it a day when you come home to La Jolla International Gardens.......ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
Retail Associate.COX Communications. Santee, CA 92071. As a Retail Sales Associate, you will play a pivotal role in the continued stability and growth of our organization, by serving as a front-line ambassador of the Cox brand. Working in a Cox Solutions Store, you will guide customers through the purchase deci -
sion, installation process and education of Cox product and accessory offerings while providing an exceptional customer experience.  ….ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
In-Home Care is hiring Caregivers / Home 
Care Aids. Job Type: Full-timeSalary: $11.50 to $14.00 /hourJob Type: Part-timeSalary: $11.00 to $14.00 /hourFamily Matters offers competitive pay, flexible work schedules, and benefits for full time employees. We are looking for caregivers who are compassionate and love to work with the elderly population. Little to no experience? No problem! We are willing to train the right person.We offer:Flexible work schedules Full and Part time work Competitive pay Recognition for great work performance Medical, Dental, and Vision benefits after 6 months of full time work Weekly Pay; get paid every Friday! Caregiver and client referral bonuses A great work environment; Caregiver pic -
nics and holiday parties! Supportive staff Paid on-going training Sick pay Typical Job duties:Companionship; playing cards / doing activities Light housekeep -
ing and preparing meals Personal care Assistance with mobility / Fall prevention Accompanying / Transporting to appoint-ments or running errands Requirements for employment:Registration with the State of California as a Home Care Aid (we can provide assistance registering if needed) Must be able to pass a Live Scan background check Must be willing to take a TB test or have a cleared TB test that was taken within the past 90 days Driving not required, but those who do are highly encouraged to apply!..…...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Outside Sales Consultant. B2B If you have 
an outgoing personality and entrepre -
neurial spirit, you can turn those attri -
butes into a successful sales career with Coverall North America, Inc. ( Coverall ). We offer an outstanding training program and the support of an established, global company to grow the right candidate into a successful salesperson. You will meet with business owners in a variety of indus -
tries from healthcare to retail, corporate offices to fitness centers to show them how our eco-friendly Coverall Program services can help them create cleaner, healthier environments for their custom -
ers and employees Responsibilities We will provide you with a designated terri -
tory, as well as comprehensive training and ongoing professional development opportunities to help ensure your success. We also prefer to promote from within, so you will find plenty of room for advance -
ment along our sales management career ladder. And, advancement can happen quickly; outstanding performers can find themselves moving two or three levels up the ladder in months not years.If you 
have the confidence and ambition to 
build a rewarding sales career, we can give you the tools to make it happen! ..... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
AUTO
2018 Mini. San Diego, CA 92111. This 2018 MINI Cooper Hardtop 4 Door four door features a 1.5L three CYL three cylinder Gasoline engine. It is equipped with a 6 Gear Automatic transmission. The vehicle is Deep Blue Metallic with a Carbon Black interior. It is offered with a full factory warranty. - Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate Control, Cruise Control, Powered steering, Power Mirrors, Leather Steering Wheel, Clock, Tachometer, Telescopic Steering Wheel, Steering Wheel Radio Controls, Driver Air bag, Airbag for pas -
senger, Side Air bags, Rear Defogger, Variable windshield wipers, AM/FM, Bluetooth, Carpeted Floormats, Center Armrest, Child Proof Door Locks, Day time running Lamps, Heated Mirrors, Overhead Console, Parking Sensors, Rear Spoiler, Rear Spoiler, Rear Wipers, Reverse Camera, Roll Stability Control, Side Curtain Air bags, Tire Pressure sensor, Vanity Mirrors -.…..ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2008 Chevrolet Silverado. San Diego, 
CA 92110  1500, 2D Standard Cab, , , , Stock #: 300989, VIN Number: 1GCEC14C38Z169041..... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Price includes the following rebates and 
incentives: $500 - Chrysler Capital 2017 Bonus Cash **CH5 (CA-DE-MA-MW-SE-WE). Exp. 10312017 $1000 - California 2017 Bonus Cash CACHA. Exp. 10312017 $2750 - 2017 CA Retail Consumer Cash 71CH1. Exp. 10312017 $1000 - 2017 California Retail Bonus Cash CACHA1. Exp. 10312017 $1000 - 2017 Conquest Lease to RetailLease 38CHA1. Exp. 01022018...... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
HELP ELIMINATE HUNGER ON CAMPUS
ONE MEAL AT A TIME
LEARN ABOUT THE HUB
THE H UB • 12:00–2:30PM
Learn abou t The HUB, t he ne w Basi c Needs R esource Center.  
Cooking demonstra tion b y Guest Chef , Jennifer from  the Gar den o f Eden. TUESDAY NOVEMB ER 14NOVEMBER 11-17, 2017andHUNGER
HOUSELESSNESS
AWARENESS WEEKfacebook.com/
tritonfoodpantry as.ucsd.edu basicneeds.uc sd.edu
CHIPOTLE  FUNDR AISER
4:00–8:00PM
Dine out a t Chipotle and hav e the proc eeds go t o the 
Triton Food Pa ntry La Jo lla Vil lage Driv e locat ion. SATURDAY NOVEMB ER 11
 
MONDAY NOVEMB ER 13
LEARN ABOUT H OUSIN G AN D HOUSELE SSNESS
LIBRARY WALK • 1:00–3:00PM
Introducti on to CalFr esh W orksh op wit h KIN D bars.FOOD PANTRY DRIVE
During awareness week, brin g in can ned goo ds, 
cereal/gr anola boxes,  or hy giene it ems t o donat e 
to the T riton Foo d Pantry!
POP-UP TRITON  FOOD PA NTRY &
BUILD YOUR  OWN CA RE PACKAGE
LIBRARY W ALK • 12:00–3 :00PMFRIDAY NOVEMB ER 17FOOD ACCE SSIBILITY CAMP AIGN
LIBRARY W ALK • 11:00AM–1 :00PM
Paper Plate Cam paign  with t he Triton Food Pantry. WEDNESDAY NOVEMB ER 15
The Housing Crisis on this campus is a pressing issue impacting 
many students. Join us for a discussion and learn from those 
working directly with the school on this crisis. Learn how you can 
be involved in a long term solution for housing in our community.THUR SDAY NOVEMB ER 16
HOUSIN G TOWN H ALL
VILLAGE WEST BUILDING 2 ROOM 2-C • 4:00–6:00PMUC San Diego vs. Simon Fraser 
University (11/10/17)
The UC San Diego women’ s 
basketball team began its regular season 
last Friday, facing o ff against Simon 
Fraser University at Riverside, CA. After having their NCAA title hopes 
were dashed by the Clan last season, the 
Triton came into their season opener 
with a vengeance, soundly defeating 
them 69–52.
Through the first half, the game 
remained close. UCSD struggled to 
generate points from behind the arc, with a game-low 0 percent from the three-point line. Despite this, the Tritons were highly accurate inside the 
arc, making 54.8 percent of their shots. 
Sophomore forward Mikalya Williams 
hit three consecutive layups to give 
UCSD its largest lead of the half (24–
17). However, SFU was able to respond, cutting UCSD’ s lead to four going into halftime (36–32).
After halftime, the Tritons came out 
energized and determined, extending their lead from four to nine points by 
the end of the third quarter. Another 
layup by Williams, followed up by two 
buckets by senior Dalayna Sampton galvanized the UCSD o ffense. Senior 
Paige Song hit UCSD’s first three-
pointer of the game to extend the Triton lead to 49–40.
UCSD carried the momentum 
from its third quarter success to close 
out the game strong. The Triton’ s were 
able to capitalize o ff many SFU fouls, 
exhibiting an excellent 84.6 percent at the free throw line. The defense 
limited the Clan to eight points while 
the offense continued to produce, 
dominantly ending the game 69–52.
The Tritons’ e fficiency in the paint 
(40 points) fueled their o ffense to 
victory. Their success close to the net 
was able to cover up a disappointing 
2–14 from behind the three-point line. 
Williams, in her first year with UCSD, 
made a fantastic regular-season debut: 
12 rebounds, two blocks, and a game-high 22 points.
UC San Diego vs. California Baptist 
University (11/11/17)
Coming o ff the victory over SFU, 
UCSD delivered another dominant performance in their Saturday game 
against California Baptist, defeating 
them 78–64.
Much like Friday’ s game, the score 
remained close in the beginning. Steals 
and scores on fastbreaks by Song and 
Williams early in the first quarter seemed to point momentum in favor 
of the Tritons, but the Lancers were able to pro fit from Triton mistakes 
and turnovers. CBU scored in the final 
seconds of the quarter, leading 17–21.
UCSD came into the second quarter 
with a new energy. A three-pointer by 
Song gave the Tritons a 28–36 lead and 
they never looked back. The UCSD 
offense went on a tear, scoring 26 
points, while the defense held CBU to 
just 14 points. The Tritons closed the 
first half confidently ahead 43–35.
With a comfortable lead coming 
into the second half, the Tritons cruised 
to victory, winning 78–64.
UCSD continued to be successful in 
the paint (34 points) and its shooting 
form outside began to improve. 
Sophomore Mikalya Williams, once again, lead the team in scoring with 17 points. Senior Taylor Tanita and junior 
Kayla Sato also played superb team 
basketball, combining for 15 assists.
Next week, UCSD looks to extend 
its two-game win streak, heading to 
Azusa for the SoCal/GNAC Classic for 
another weekend of basketball. They 
will be playing against W estern 
Washington and Seattle Paci fic.UC San Diego earned two double digit victories to kick off  the young season.
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduBY Wesley Xiao
Contributing WriterTritons Dominate in Back-to-Back MatchesPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSJulius Randle, 
who is he? Standing at six feet nine 
inches and weighing around 250 
pounds, this Southpaw plays power 
forward for the world-renowned Los 
Angeles Lakers. 
I love him. I would argue that the 
best player on the roster right now is 
between him and Jordan Clarkson. 
Randle is averaging 11.3 points, 6.3 
rebounds, and 1.6 assists on 18.8 
minutes per game. The late first-round 
pick rookie that is taking his minutes, Kyle Kuzma, has similar numbers. He 
is averaging 14.1 points, 6.3 rebounds, 
and 1.3 assists. When it’ s all said and done, Kuzma takes only a slight edge in 
the scoring department.
Now, the issue here is that Kuzma 
is averaging 30 minutes per game. He’ s 
playing just over 10 more minutes a 
game and contributing a measly three 
more points than Randle. 
One argument someone might 
make for Kuzma is that he’ s a starter. As a starter, his 30 minutes are justi fied; 
starters play the most. 
However, 10 minutes is a long 
time in basketball. Three more points 
for 10 minutes worth of playing time 
doesn’t seem justi fied. Let’ s take a look 
at their per 36 minute numbers. Per 36, Randle’s numbers are as follows: 21.7 
points, 12.1 rebounds, and 3.1 assists. Kuzma is averaging 17.4 points, 7.8 
rebounds, and 1.6 assists per 36. 
Their per-36 stats, if anything, make 
an even stronger case for Randle. If, 
after normalizing their stats, Kuzma’ s 
stats are even worse than Randle’ s, then are we allowed to question what 
the coaching sta ff is doing? The staff is 
paid to look at stats, make adjustments, 
and help the team win. So why not play 
Randle? 
Trade rumors have been circulating 
around Randle. It’ s been said that he 
most likely has no future with the 
Lakers. One of our best players on the 
court has no future with the Lakers. 
I can understand that Randle might be too costly of a contract to keep, considering the Lakers organization 
wants to sign free agents this upcoming postseason. However, I cannot endorse 
intentionally limiting the minutes of 
one of our best players. As a fan, I want 
to see the Lakers win. W e have trouble 
scoring, and Randle has the ability to 
muscle his way to the rim for a basket. 
I’m not advocating taking Kuzma’s 
minutes away, but maybe coach  W alton 
should play them both at the same time.
One of our best lineups in terms 
of scoring is a Lonzo Ball, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Brandon Ingram, Kuzma, and Randle lineup. This lineup 
has shared the floor together for a 
total of 26:42 this season. And, it’ s our 
second-best lineup in terms of scoring 
(+45.9 net points per 100 possessions). 
W e’re destroying our opponents with 
this lineup, but it doesn’t see that much 
play. Furthermore, the only stats that 
this lineup is negative in are freethrow-related and turnover-related. If one 
compares this to the three most-played 
Laker lineups, then one can see that 
these three lineups really don’t net much 
in terms of points (-2.0, 0.7, and +2.8). 
This could be for a slew of reasons, chief 
of which might be that the most-played 
lineups are against the starters of other 
teams. While this may be true, it doesn’t explain why the Lakers don’t use one of 
our strongest lineups more. Let’ s give 
Randle and Kuzma a chance together 
more. The lineup is a fast, small-ball 
squad that can play at a very frenetic pace. 
If we’re going to trade Randle, then 
let’ s increase his value. Have him play 
more minutes, maybe with Kuzma, so that he looks more enticing for 
other teams. Laker Nation has been 
tanking for far too long; it’ s time to use 
everything we have to win, even if it 
means playing someone who we plan 
on getting rid of. Laker Nation needs 
more W’ s — now. BY Richard Lu
Sports Editorial Assistant
Too Hot to Randle?
richard lu  RIL014@ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
MEN'S WATERPOLOPHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER
The No. 12 UC San Diego men’s 
water polo team wrapped up the 
2017 regular season on the road 
against No. 6 UC Irvine Wednesday 
night at Anteater Aquatics Complex 
in Irvine, CA. 
The Tritons were looking for 
their first victory over the Anteaters, 
having been defeated in two other 
matches earlier in September. Having 
cut the di fference to five goals in 
their last meeting, the Tritons fell again in a non-conference game to a tough Irvine squad 4–11. 
With the result, UCSD finished 
9–13 overall, yet a strong 6–1 in conference play. 
UC Irvine jumped ahead with the 
first sound of the referee’s whistle. 
Shutting out the Tritons in the first 
10 minutes, the Anteaters were responsible for the first four goals of 
the game. 
Freshman attacker Connor 
Turnbow-Lindenstadt stopped the bleeding temporarily and executed on a 6-on-5 power-play with 5:20 
remaining in the second quarter. 
The Newport Beach phenom has 
contributed a striking 47 goals during his freshman campaign, the second highest on the team. He also tallied another steal for a total of 29 this year. 
UC Irvine scored three more 
times before Cooper Milton, 
sophomore utility, found a way 
around the reach of Matej Matijevic, 
Anteater goalkeeper, seconds before 
halftime. 
UCSD only capitalized on two 
out of 10 power-play opportunities, recording 11 exclusions of its own on the night and allowing multiple advantages for UC Irvine. That said, 
the Anteaters led in shots 29–24.
Late goals from redshirt 
sophomore utility Luka Vasiljevic and junior utility Collin Sullivan fortunately limited the de ficit to 
seven. Junior goalkeeper Sam 
Thompson collected 16 saves while 
Skyler Munatones, sophomore 
utility, pitched in two steals. 
UCSD is set to host the Western 
Water Polo Association Tournament next weekend from Friday, Nov. 17 to Sunday, Nov. 19. The second-seed 
Tritons will face Santa Clara in the first round at 12:45 p.m., a team they 
beat 13-9 just two weeks ago. 
MADELINE LEWIS  MBLEWIS@ucsd.eduBY MADELINE LEWIS
Staff WRITER
UC San Diego will face Santa Clara in the tournament next weekend.No. 12 Tritons drop regular 
season closer to No. 6 UC Irvine, 
prepare for WWPA Tournament 
The UC San Diego women’s 
volleyball team hasn’t been able 
to catch a break. Hoping to finish 
out the season on a high note, the Tritons headed into their matches 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills 
and Cal State LA attempting to 
end their two game skid. However, 
instead of regaining control, the 
team flew off a cliff and was swept by 
both teams to finish the season on a 
four-game losing streak.
Versus Cal State Dominguez Hills
The Tritons’ first game against the 
Toros was fairly close, with the score 
at 7–5 in favor of the Toros early on 
in the game. Cal State Dominguez 
Hills went on a five-point scoring 
run, but UCSD wound up going 
on a run of their own to make it a 
13–10 game. A fter that, however, the 
Tritons could not keep up.
The Toros never really gave the 
Tritons a chance in the second set of 
the night. A fter the game was 1–1, the Toros zoomed past the Tritons to 
finish of the Tritons at 25–16.
In the third and final set of the 
night, it looked like it was going 
to be more of the same. While the 
opening minutes led to a back and 
forth a ffair, the game went from 
being tied at 5–5 to a 14–5 Toro 
lead in a heartbeat. However, UCSD 
tried to prevent a stomp by CSU 
Dominguez Hills. Late in the game a service ace from the Tritons made it a three point game, but the Toros 
scored o ff a kill to win the game.
“Unfortunately, this late in the 
season we’re trying to find our 
chemistry again, ” UCSD head coach 
Ricci Luyties told the Athletics 
Department. “With setter Marie 
Paris out, we’re looking for our 
rhythm o ffensively and trying to get 
quality attacks to score points. ”
Versus Cal State LA
UCSD’s Saturday night matchup 
was a much closer a ffair, despite the final results.
The first set of the night was 
a classic back and forth a ffair, as a 
majority of the game was marked 
by frequent lead changes. A kill by 
junior outside hitter Molly Dalziel 
brought the Tritons within one 
to make the score 21–20, but the 
Golden Eagles went on a four-point 
scoring run to close out the game.
The second set of the game once 
again started out fairly close, but 
after the Tritons tied the game at 
9–9 thanks to a Golden Eagle attack 
error, the Tritons would once again 
allow another scoring run. The 
Golden Eagles led by as much as five points, but the Tritons wound 
up making it a closer game than the 
previous set, as a UCSD service ace 
brought the team within one at 22–21. Alas, it was not to be.
Heading into what would end up 
being the final set, the Tritons made 
every attempt to extend the night. UCSD led for large stretches of the 
game thanks to some multipoint 
scoring runs, but the team could 
never put CSULA away for good. 
Always trailing by just a couple of 
points, the Golden Eagles made 
a triumphant return and tied the 
game up at 19–19 and would go 
on to take the lead for good. While 
the Tritons tied up the game again 
at 22–22, they, for what felt like the umpteenth time in two nights, could not go the distance. The Tritons 
were swept once again a fter a 25–22 
set loss. 
Hopefully UC San Diego has 
gotten the worst out of the way as it heads into the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Championship 
Tournament, which starts on Nov. 
16th. 
Alex Wu adw006@ucsd.eduWomen's  VOLLEYBALLPHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY WILHELM
The UCSD volleyball 
team finished its regular season on the wrong end of back-to-back sweeps.Tritons 
Losing 
Streak 
Extends to Four
by Alex Wu // 
Sports EditorUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W Volleyball
W Soccer
M Water Polo
W Basketball11/14
11/16
11/17 
11/1711/177:30 PM
5 PM
TBA
12:45 PM
5:30 PMAT Point LomaAT Cal State East Bay NCAA Third Round (Home)Santa ClaraAT Western Washington