VOLUME 50, ISSUE 39   TUESDA Y , MA Y 30, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CATCHING UP
USE YOUR SUMMER TO CATCH 
UP ON EVERYTHING YOU 
MISSED IN 2017, FROM MUSIC 
TO TV TO THE BLOCKBUSTERS.                                           
ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT 
DEFINES WHAT YOUR SUMMER 
ENTERTAINMENT SHOULD 
CONSIST OF. 
OVER SEEING  REGENTS
NBA  FINALSMISMANAGED   FUNDS
Preview + PredictionOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  15
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“We are called upon to 
step up and commit to the 
struggle against racism, vio -
lence and oppression, in our 
many roles as faculty mem -
bers — as teachers, advi -
sors, researchers, community 
members and employees of 
the University,”
- UCSD Faculty
RESPONSE TO SHOOTING
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS & SIRENS  ........... .2
FACULTY STATEMENT........4
STUDENT JUSTICE  .......... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
TRACK & FIELD  ............. 16 A&E,  P AGE  8
COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTS
TUESDAY
H 66 L 60WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 61
THURSDAY
H 69 L 61FRIDAY
 H 69 L 61
Kala Azar, also known as Visceral 
Leishmaniasis, is the second largest 
parasitic killer in the world and is 
one of the most neglected tropical 
diseases, meaning it is less researched 
than diseases like ebola. The disease 
is endemic in more than 70 countries 
with approximately 200 million people 
at risk of infection. About 90 percent of 
the cases are seen in India, Bangladesh, 
Brazil, Sudan and Nepal. Kala Azar is 
caused by a parasite that is spread to 
humans through the bite of an infected 
female sand fly. Most infected by the fly 
bite will not develop symptoms in their 
lifetime, but the cases that develop the 
infection and go without treatment 
will most likely be fatal. Having HIV/ AIDS can also complicate the infection 
and the treatment due to the already 
vulnerable immune system. 
The female sand flies serve as a 
vector for the leishmania parasite, 
which causes the infection. Sand 
flies feed on humans and animals 
in order to produce eggs, and if the 
blood drawn contains the leishmania 
parasite, the next person or animal 
bitten will be infected and develop 
leishmaniasis. After a few months, 
the disease can advance to Kala Azar 
which is a more severe form of the 
disease. The initial symptoms of Kala 
Azar are skin sores and ulcers at the 
bite sites, as well as fever and weakness. 
If the disease progresses, the immune 
system goes under attack, resulting in 
symptoms such as appetite loss, night 
sweats, dark ashen skin, thinning hair and weight loss. 
The most effective diagnostic 
methods are invasive, where tissue 
samples are collected from the 
spleen, lymph nodes or bone marrow. 
There also various laboratory tests 
that can help with the diagnosis, 
including blood tests to look for the 
parasite or the infection. Antimony- 
containing compounds are the main 
treatment course for leishmaniasis. 
These compounds are given as a 
30-day course of medication through 
intramuscular injections. These 
drugs can be somewhat toxic and 
are associated with some risk for the 
patient, but those that are treated and 
cured of kala azar typically develop 
immunity for the rest of their lives. UCSD Scientists 
Working on Prop 
64 ResearchCAMPUS
Passed in November, Prop 64 
legalized marijuana and gave 
UCSD research funding.
Following the passage of 
Proposition 64 in California, the 
Center for Medical Cannabis Research 
at UC San Diego will receive two 
million dollars in funding per year for 
the study of medical marijuana. The 
money comes from two new taxes 
levied on the cultivation and sale 
of cannabis. The proposition, which 
legalized marijuana, also authorized 
local governments to place additional 
taxes on marijuana. 
The Center for Medical Cannabis 
Research at UCSD studies the 
effects of marijuana on alleviating 
neuropathic pain stemming from a 
variety of causes such as diabetes, 
multiple sclerosis and chronic back 
pain. Neuropathic pain is caused when 
nerves are damaged or dysfunctional. 
The CMCR is currently conducting 
research on the effects of cannabis on 
driving ability as well.
To test the effects of cannabis 
on driving, healthy volunteers are 
placed in a driving simulator and 
undergo performance assessments 
after being exposed to cannabis. 
Trials measuring the pain-relieving 
effects of marijuana may use healthy 
volunteers and simulate pain before 
cannabis exposure, or may present 
volunteers with a specific existing 
condition with cannabinoids to 
determine the effects.
Dr. Igor Grant, the director of 
CMCR, told the UCSD Guardian 
about how the research could affect 
students at UCSD that are suffering 
from neuropathic pain.
“On the medicinal research side, 
there may be students that have some 
conditions that are treatable [with 
cannabis], ” Grant explained. “Others 
may develop these chronic pain 
conditions from an injury or some 
other source, so [our research] may 
be a benefit to them. ” 
In the future, the center hopes 
to conduct research on how 
cannabinoids affect eating disorders 
such as anorexia or illnesses like 
Crohn’s disease.
Grant and his colleagues are also 
working to determine how long 
marijuana stays in the system and 
how it can affect a person’s ability to 
drive.
“This can be important for 
students to know as well, whether 
they’re [consuming marijuana] 
recreationally or because they’re 
receiving cannabis for medical 
reasons, ” Grant stated. 
The tax revenue from Proposition 
64 will be used to build facilities and Regents Spent $225,000 on Parties Since 2012
The night before the UC Board of Regents 
voted to raise tuition by $282 for the 2017–18 
academic year, the university officials hosted a 
$17,600 dinner party for themselves in San Francisco 
attended by 65 people, placing the cost at $270 per 
attendee, the San Francisco Chronicle reported on May 
28. According to the Chronicle, the UC Office of the 
President has reimbursed the regents for $225,000 in 
dinner parties, which have occurred four to six times 
annually, since 2012.
More recently, the regents spent $15,199 on a dinner 
party at the San Francisco Palace Hotel at the UC’s 
expense on May 17. At $258 a head, the event came 
just hours after students from around the UC system 
protested outside the regents’ meeting held that day 
at UC San Francisco for free tuition and living wages, 
among other demands.  
Incoming A.S. President Lesly Figueroa, who 
attended the May 17 demonstration, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the regents’ spending is not surprising 
because the officials have failed to put UC students and 
workers first before.
“I think the regents spending thousands of dollars of 
university funding on extravagant parties that obviously 
do not benefit students is a shame, ” Figueroa said. 
“Raising an already unaffordable tuition, making higher 
education more inaccesible is outrageous but, of course, 
not shocking because we’ve known the regents do not 
always have the best interest of students or workers in mind. We have students that are food and housing 
insecure, not being retained at their institutions or 
being supported to get their basic needs met and yet 
are still paying outrageous amounts of money to a 
system that does not support them is not only unjust but 
unacceptable. ” 
UC spokesperson Dianne Klein defended the 
dinner parties to the Chronicle, stating that they are 
a longstanding tradition financed by private funding 
given to the university. 
However, several regents spoke out against the 
dinners, with some saying that the attendees should 
be responsible for the cost of the events themselves as 
opposed to placing the burden on the university.
Regent John Perez, who believes that the participants 
should finance the parties, told the Chronicle that 
spending should be prioritize students over dinners. 
“We shouldn’t use money (for dinners) that could be 
used for students, ” Perez said. “Lavish meals are not the 
‘highest, best’ use. ”
Regents Dick Blum, Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and 
community college Chancellor Eloy Ortiz Oakley also 
expressed their dissatisfaction with the price of the 
dinners, calling it “inappropriate” and “high. ”  
Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Y asmine 
Saraf explained that it is upsetting that the regents are 
spending students’ money on themselves.
“I feel that as a student for the greater part of my 
life, we’re taught the appropriate values of justice and B y Lauren Hol t  News EditorUC SYSTEM
A group of students from universities around the world are currently researching a treatment. DISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY R e v a t i  R as h i n g k a r
Staff Writer
BY  P r o m i t a  N a n dy
Senior Staff Writer
Kala Azar a Disease That Can Cause Fatal Infections
Students compete at the UCSD Latte Art Throwdown at Middle of Muir // Photo by Christian DuarteCAMPUS
See PROP 64 , page 3See DINNER PARTIES , page 3
See KALA AZAR , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla(cannot be
combined)$100 OFF
$75FOR ONLYof any order over $550
10 mini burritos (you 
pick any 2), 10 cheese 
enchiladas, chips, salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce.$150FOR ONLY Large taco tray
(36 tacos), rice, 
beans, chips salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17EXP 7/5/171 Month FREE !
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/17.
Quick & Easy – Re nt Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.co m/ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW USThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Marcus is hella salty af.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Co-Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Katrina Wu
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Susanti Sarkar, Timothy Deng, Tina Chen Saturday, May 20
3:31 a.m. Public Intoxication
Report of a male passed out inside the 
elevator at The Village West Building 1. 
Transported to Detox.
8:27 a.m. Animal Call
Two to three dogs barking were seen in 
parked vehicle with no sign of food or 
water. Referred to another Agency.
6:03 p.m. Animal Call
Dead possum was reported at Sixth 
College Apartments. Referred to Other 
UCSD Department.
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Vandalism to 
Vehicle
Window of vehicle smashed by an un -
known suspect(s). Damage recorded to 
be $150.00. Report Taken.
Sunday, May 21
12:08 a.m. Drunk Driving
Driver drove onto street divider and 
proceeded down Gilman Drive. Unable to locate.
2:30 a.m. Public Intoxication
Intoxicated female unable to walk with -
out assistance. Transported to Detox.
2:30 a.m. Public Intoxication
Intoxicated male sitting on sidewalk 
with head pulled forward and eyes 
closed. Transported to Detox.
8:28 a.m. Warrant Arrest
Jason Edward Byrd arrested in Lot 703; 
received a misdemeanor bench warrant 
for failure to appear. Closed by Adult 
Arrest.
Monday, May 22
6:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Hit and Run
Report of a hit and run in Lot 602, no 
injuries occurred. Report taken. 
7:00 a.m. Fraud
Loss of $349.00 by victim, unknown 
suspect(s) fraudulently used victim’s 
information to obtain credit. Report 
taken.  11:14 p.m Welfare Check
Psych subject, report of possible suicide 
attempt. Transported to hospital.
Tuesday, May 23
12:46 a.m. Missing Person
Resident of Goldberg Hall reported 
concerned for roommate, who usually 
returns at this time. Report cancelled.
2:19 a.m. Tamper with Fire Alarm/
Equipment
Metal fire extinguisher box was broken 
by unknown suspect(s), who also re -
leased a small amount of the fire retar -
dant. Up to $70.00 recorded in damages. 
Report Taken.
7:52 p.m. Animal Call
Report of an alligator seen at the Career 
Planning and Placement. Animal not 
found. 
—   Armonie Mendez
Staff WriterLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
@UCSDGUARDIANl i k e  u s  o n  f b serve as a fund for materials and 
procedures.
“The Prop 64 funds will help 
to fund some of the laboratories 
that are necessary, for example, 
to do toxicological testing to have 
a pharmacy that allows us to 
compound these agents, ” Grant told 
the Guardian.
The money will also be used to 
fund modes of administering the 
medicine, such as creating pills and 
conducting trials. 
The center’s goal is to provide 
information to the government and 
to the public about the beneficial 
aspects of marijuana and its efficacy 
as medicine. 
“We’ d like to determine if 
cannabinoids have medicinal 
value, and if so, to develop practice 
guidelines for how these products should be administered, under what 
circumstances, with what kind of 
precautions and so forth. ” Grant 
elaborated.
Currently, cannabis is considered 
a schedule 1 drug which puts it in 
the same category as heroin, LSD 
and ecstasy. Drugs in this category 
are defined as “having no currently 
accepted medical use” by the DEA. 
Grant and his colleagues hope to 
provide evidence that marijuana has 
medicinal uses, so that people who 
can benefit from medicinal marijuana 
can have access to it.
The center is currently accepting 
new researchers and volunteers. 
Students who are interested in getting 
involved with this research can visit 
the CMCR’s website to find out more 
information.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Cure rates are relatively high for this 
disease, but treatment before the 
immune system is attacked results in 
the best outcomes. Physicians in areas 
where the disease is endemic focus 
on prevention as much as possible 
rather than focusing on treatment after 
infection, encouraging mesh netting 
around beds, using insect repellent and 
wearing protective clothing. 
Students from five universities in 
India, the UK and the U.S. have been 
brought together to find new drugs for 
visceral leishmaniasis treatment. They 
will be working with a compound that 
kills two types of parasites that cause 
visceral leishmaniasis. Their current 
goal is to find compounds more suited 
for oral administration that would be 
easier to use in the field and would 
have less side effects that the current 
drugs available. 
 ▶ KALA AZAR,  from page 1Cure Rates Are Fairly 
High for the Disease
Rev a ti  Rashingkar   rrashing@ucsd.edu Promit a  Nand y   pnandy@ucsd.eduThe Research Center is Looking for Volunteers The Documents were Obtained from the State Audit
LAUREN HOL T  LCHOLT@ucsd.edu▶ PROP 64,  from page 1 ▶ DINNER PARTIES,  from page 1
authenticity, ” Saraf told the Guardian. 
“However, knowing that the UC Regents 
are using our tuition money for their 
own purposes instead of bettering the 
school, leaves me confused and outraged. 
I propose that the dining halls should be 
enhanced to accommodate for our own 
dinner parties as well. ”
Figueroa added that in light of the 
Chronicle’s findings, students should 
mobilize against the regents and 
Napolitano.
“Moving forward, this creates a pivotal 
moment for students at their institutions 
and here at UCSD to push against these 
reckless decisions of university spending 
and urge the regents and Napolitano 
to commit to supporting student and 
workers needs because without students 
and workers then the institution does 
not function, ” Figueroa said. “These are 
times when we have to push collectively 
in order to shift the current system into a 
student and worker serving institution. ”
According to the Chronicle’s report, 
the parties call into question the regents’ 
spending policy because UC rules 
restrict dinners to $81 and prevent “lavish or extravagant” entertainment 
expenses and portray UC President 
Janet Napolitano’s relationship with the 
regents as “Napolitano’s office reimburses 
the regents’ expenses, and the regents 
approve the budget for Napolitano’s 
office. ” 
The Chronicle learned of the regents’ 
dinner parties from documents produced 
by the California State Auditor’s Office 
after State Auditor Elaine Howle released 
a report criticizing UCOP for overpaying 
its executives and hiding $175 million in 
discretionary reserves.
Other parties thrown by the regents 
include a $15,600 party in March 2013 
while the university was “working to 
weather the financial crisis, ” an $8,800 
dinner party in November 2014 when 
the regents were deciding whether to 
raise tuition by 28 percent over the next 
five years and a retirement party for two 
regents in January 2016 that cost $227 
a head.
@UCSDGUARDIANl i k e  u s  o n  f b 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
If you want to prove someone 
has done something wrong, 
then follow the money. That 
is exactly what state auditor Elaine 
Howle accomplished during her 
investigation into the UC Office of 
the President. Her report, released 
last April, uncovered $175 million 
in undisclosed funds and a whole 
slew of money mishandlings. UC 
President Janet Napolitano has 
offered convenient excuses to 
explain away what appears to be the 
blatant misappropriation of funds. 
But these excuses fail to cover up 
obvious organizational issues and 
disinterest in transparency which 
lead to the accumulation of vast 
untapped resources. Consequently, 
the audit forces students and faculty 
of the UC system to agree with 
its recommendations for increased 
oversight and accountability in the 
UCOP budget. 
Of the $175 million in the 
undisclosed budget, Howle 
identified $32 million unspent from 
the campus assessment, the fee levied 
each year against the UC system’s 10 
campuses. Further, a considerable 
portion of the surplus resulted from 
the UCOP spending significantly 
less on various initiatives than 
the amounts appropriated from the Board of Regents. Napolitano 
argued that much of these funds 
have been allocated to other projects 
but failed to provide a full list of 
initiatives and their costs. Howle 
was quick to point out UCOP’s 
interference with the investigation. 
Email evidence proves that UCOP 
reviewed, and subsequently altered, 
the responses of two surveys given 
to the leadership of each of the 10 
campuses to look more favorably upon the UCOP . All in all, the report 
concluded with 33 suggestions for 
administrative change, all of which 
Napolitano approved under the 
threat of withheld state funding: 
these included regulation of 
employee wages and benefits and 
the adoption of alternative methods 
of state funding.
Though it is unfair to argue that 
UCOP has been actively lazy or 
incompetent in its budget practices, the UCOP has ignored glaring 
administrative issues — and the 
voices which call for change — that 
belie its efficacy. The most blatant 
mistake is the reuse of estimates from 
previous years in determining the 
budget for its system-wide initiatives. 
This resulted from UCOP’s inability 
to track the individual costs of the 
initiatives. Budget vagueness results 
in confusion when managing funds, 
such as when $910,000 of program funding that was excluded from the 
system-wide initiatives section of the 
‘15–’16 budget. By taking to time 
to annually review the continued 
priority and costs of each of the 
initiatives, the UCOP can prevent 
the accumulation of unneeded 
funds, which amounted to about $32 
million from the campus assessment 
in the 2015-2016 year. Furthermore, 
the UCOP’s hindrance during the 
investigation due to editing surveys 
takes this from a possible case of 
naive money mishandlings to a 
purposeful subversion of trust. Its 
laborious attempts to ameliorate 
the optics of the situation robbed 
itself of the opportunity to 
receive constructive criticism 
on its processes. This disaffirms 
its genuineness in accepting the 
suggestions put forth by the audit, 
and paints a bleak picture for the 
future relations of stakeholders and 
the UCOP . These issues represent 
just several of the many holes in the 
UCOP organization. 
Officially, the board of regents 
contains a budget review committee 
to weed out these issues within the 
UCOP administration. However, the 
significant budget bloat in the UCOP 
calls into question the regents’ 
qualifications to oversee the UCOP . 
Many of them lack experience in 
educational institutions, originally Dear Students and Members
 of the Community,
As UC San Diego faculty, 
we write in response to 
the mass shooting that 
took place on April 30 at La Jolla 
Crossroads, an apartment complex 
just a few minutes from campus, 
where Peter Selis, the shooter and 
a white man, opened fire on a pool 
party gathering, shooting seven 
individuals. A black woman was 
killed — Monique Clark, 
a mother of three — and 
all of the victims were 
wounded. Although this 
tragic mass shooting and 
attempted mass murder did 
not take place on official 
university property, it took 
place within a community 
context very much defined 
by UCSD. UCSD sits upon 
traditional Kumeyaay land 
and is situated in University 
City, which could not be 
more aptly named, given 
the interdependence 
between UCSD and the 
neighborhood that houses 
a substantial number of its 
students, faculty and staff. 
We write this open letter 
to address the complex 
interweaving between the 
university that employs us, the 
disputed lands on which our work 
takes place and the community 
setting in which we work. We also 
write to question and contest the 
narrative frames through which this 
tragic incident is being understood, 
rationalized and dealt with.
Official statements from 
UCSD have taken a broad, general 
approach in responding to the 
incident, suggesting that students avail themselves of existing 
mental health services, without 
acknowledging the ways in which 
students of color have been directly 
affected by this attack. We write 
in order to bring to light what we 
understand to be the inherence of 
race to this mass shooting event 
in the community in which we 
work and live, and to question the 
immediate medicalization of this 
violent public event, which we 
argue cannot take place without a 
thorough accounting of the racist 
nature of this crime.
We reject San Diego Police 
Department Chief Shelley 
Zimmerman’s assertion that those 
targeted by Selis were victims of 
proximity rather than of a racist hate 
crime. As many have pointed out, 
and despite the fact that University 
City was described in numerous 
news reports as a “diverse” 
neighborhood, it is majority white 
and has a less than 2 percent African American population and 
a less than 10 percent “Hispanic” 
population. The remarkably low 
percentage of African Americans is 
particularly noteworthy, given that 
five out of the seven individuals shot 
by Selis were African American, 
one was Latino and one was white. 
Despite this fact, less than 24 hours 
after the attack, Zimmerman held 
a press conference in which she 
foreclosed the possibility that this 
was a hate crime, choosing instead 
to humanize the killer by citing his 
financial and “romantic” difficulties. 
The police have continued to gloss 
over race as a factor in this attack, 
despite eyewitness and survivor 
accounts revealing that the shooter 
intentionally spared a white woman 
who was trying to aid Monique 
Clark. Numerous reports published 
in the San Diego Union Tribune have 
puzzled over what Selis’ motivations 
could possibly have been since 
he was not widely known to be affiliated with white supremacist 
organizations or ideologies; we also 
question the finality of the either/
or logic with which a motive was 
definitively established.
As faculty, we reject the erasure 
of race and racism in the La Jolla 
shootings. We recognize that this 
attack was not an isolated incident: 
it took place in a Trump era of 
increased racist and xenophobic hate 
crimes. Furthermore, we understand 
that white supremacy is a diffuse 
ideology that exists broadly in 
American culture and is only 
on occasion evident in the form 
of organized, racist fraternal 
societies and organizations. 
Chief Zimmerman and her 
deputies cannot see racism 
unless it exists in the form 
of a racist hate group; we 
understand racism to function 
far more effectively as a daily 
social order that determines 
and organizes social 
networks, family structures, 
neighborhoods, schools, job 
opportunities and propensity 
to or security from early 
death.
We know that students of 
color at UCSD face myriad 
forms of violence in their 
daily lives, ranging from 
classroom and workplace 
micro/aggressions, to hate 
speech and racist actions on the part 
of some student leaders and faculty, 
which has often gone unrecognized 
and thereby unaddressed by the 
University. We are therefore called 
upon to step up and commit to 
the struggle against racism, violence 
and oppression, in our many roles 
as faculty members — as teachers, 
advisors, researchers, community 
members and employees of the 
University.
See AUDIT,  page 5
Faculty Response to 
Crossroads Shooting
We recognize that 
this attack was not an 
isolated incident: it 
took place in a Trump 
era of increased racist 
and xenophobic hate 
crimes.Signed,
Roshanak Kheshti, Ethnic Studies
Sarah Hankins, Music
A.L. Heinrich, Literature
Joseph Hankins, Anthropology
Wendy Matsumura, History
Assistant Professor, History
Patrick Anderson, Communication, Ethnic 
Studies, and Critical Gender Studies
Stephanie Richards, Music
Assistant Professor, Anthropology
Daphne Taylor-Garcia, Ethnic Studies
Rosaura Sanchez, Literature
Abigail Andrews,  Sociology
K. Wayne Y ang, Ethnic Studies
Ross Frank,  Ethnic Studies
Jessica Graham, History
Assistant Professor, Psychiatry
Ameeth Vijay,  Literature
Ashvin R. Kini, Ethnic Studies
Professor, Psychiatry
Assistant Professor, Communication
Lilly Irani, Communication, Science 
Studies, and Critical Gender Studies
Scott Klemmer, Cognitive Science
Y en Espiritu, Ethnic Studies
Jillian Hernandez, Ethnic Studies, 
and Critical Gender Studies
Dayo Gore, Ethnic Studies, and 
Critical Gender Studies
Associate Professor, Communication
Christo Sims, Communication
Kelly Gates, Communication
Katie Walkiewicz, Literature
Amelia Glaser, Literature
Jody Blanco, Literature
Jin-kyung Lee, Literature
Erica Cho, Visual Arts
Hoang Tan Nguyen, Literature
Fatima El-Tayeb,  Literature, Ethnic 
Studies, and Critical Gender Studies
Amy Cimini, Music
Todd A. Henry, History
Nancy Postero, Anthropology
Makeba Jones, Education Studies
Charisse Winston, Neuroscience
Michael Trigilio, Visual Arts
Matthew Vitz, History
Angela Booker, Communication
Pasquale Verdicchio, Literature
Cassandra Hartblay, 
Communication and Anthropology
Ricardo Dominguez,  Visual Arts
Brandon Som, Literature
Brian Goldfarb, Communication
Amanda Solomon Amorao, Culture, 
Art, & Technology Program
Stephanie Jed, Literature
The following letter 
is a joint statement 
signed by 50 UCSD 
faculty members, 
in response to the 
shooting that took 
place at a La Jolla 
apartment complex 
on April 30th.
State Audit Reiterates Need for Regents' Outside Advisory
BY CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UC San Diego
Student Summer Pass
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited  
rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. 
(Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.)
Pass Valid June 6 – September 30  
Online sales only: June 5 – August 3 1
Current registration/enrollment
for Summer Sessions or
continuing students from
Spring 2017 to Fall 2017 required .
For details visit:  summerpass.ucsd.edu
working as lawyers, politicians 
and businesspersons with close 
financial ties to the governor who 
appointed them. For instance, Sherry 
Lansing, former CEO of Paramount 
pictures and current regent, gave 
donations to both of the governors 
who appointed her prior to her 
tenure. An absence of expertise in 
education prevents the regents from 
seeing issues with budgets which do 
not support students in the fullest. 
For example, the 2015-2016 budget, 
approved by the regents, allocated as 
little as 40 percent toward student 
assistance programs and campus 
maintenance. By taking a back seat 
in the process of creating the budget, 
the regents neglected their obligation 
to ensure the budget is neither lazy 
nor wasteful. If the regents had compelled the UCOP to justify its 
budget as the committee is meant 
to, the UCOP would be forced to 
update its estimates of costs, thereby 
limiting bloat and expense to 
campuses. Though they assume the 
role of a guide for the 10 campuses, 
the regents have become complacent 
and therefore require third-party 
assistance. A private contractor 
who monitors the ebb and flow of 
UCOP spending would ensure that 
policies are slim and compact. That 
is to say that the UCOP can stop 
relying on quick and easy methods 
of augmenting its funding, such as 
the active recruitment of out-of-state 
students, who pay higher fees and 
tuition hikes. 
To be sure, the audit unearthed 
a staggering amount of unspent, 
undisclosed resources. But more 
concerning than that is that the audit indirectly shined a light on 
the organizational deficiencies of the 
UCOP and the board of regents. 
The UCOP’s sloth in defining the 
changing costs of its programs, 
and its unwillingness to improve 
its administration, comes at the 
cost of its public image. And the 
regents’ complacency and lack of 
relevant experience render them 
unqualified to properly supervise 
the UCOP . Though the logistics will 
be decidedly harder to implement 
than they were to type on this 
page, changes at the highest level of 
the administrative staff of the UC 
system are imperative if such staff 
are to maintain their obligation of 
accessibility and accountability to 
their students and faculty. WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
CHRIS ROBERTSON    CRR015@UCSD.EDU
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
▶ AUDIT  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Every Spring Quarter at UC San Diego, pro-Palestine groups 
on campus dedicate a week toward advocating their stance 
on Middle Eastern politics on Library Walk and around 
campus, naming their advocacy as “Justice for Palestine. ” In 
response, pro-Israel activists set up their own booth, and call it 
“Israel Solidarity. ” 
 The Muslim Student Association and Students for Justice 
in Palestine UCSD organizations both work together in order to 
advocate on Library Walk from May 15–18, erecting a wall filled 
with statements about what it means to be a Zionist (“the three 
basic characteristics of Zionism are: racism, expansionism, settler 
colonialism”), comparisons likening Israel to an “apartheid state, ” 
and connecting the treatment of Palestinians to movements such as 
“Black Lives Matter” and the U.S. Mexico border.
 The statement “Free Palestine” was written in chalk 
symbolically in front of Silent Tree, and walking down Library 
Walk, one can witness students reading the wall thoughtfully, and 
engaging in conversation. The strong beliefs and passions that 
inspire student activists to dedicate their time toward a cause that is 
personal to them is evident both through the art and efforts clearly 
displayed on the wall, as well as the engaged dialogue of students 
surrounding the booth. 
 Meanwhile, set up less than 30 yards away, a booth set up 
largely by Tritons for Israel and Hillel intends to inform students 
on an alternative narrative, with displays offering a different 
definition of “Zionism” (“the social justice for the Jewish people, ” 
namely as an end to the Jewish Diaspora), and a bolded statement, 
reading “Israel is NOT an Apartheid state. ”
 Speaking with student leaders on either booth, one thing 
immediately became clear: while the subject matter is controversial, 
the goal of activists at both booths is to educate students on an 
issue that many feel does not affect them, and to promote peaceful 
discussion.
 Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Khaled Ahmad, talked 
to me about how the issues surrounding Justice for Palestine 
week personally affect him and his family. Ahmad is the son of 
Palestinian refugees from Jordan. His father moved to the U.S., 
where Ahmad was born, when he was 18 years old. He describes 
pro-Palestinian causes as being “rooted in [him] since birth. ”
 Ultimately, his goal in volunteering his time on Library 
Walk and at campus events is not only to inform and educate 
UCSD students on the politics of the Middle East, but to allow 
“people to form some attachment” with a political issue they may 
have never encountered or have been educated on.
 In order to further educate students, Students for Justice 
in Palestine organize a series of events throughout the week — 
ranging from panels on student activism, a “Palestine 101” lecture 
with Professor Erakat from George Mason University and a movie 
night, featuring the war documentary “Five Broken Cameras. ” 
 But educating students in this way inevitably exposes a 
bias; a bias that neither booth can avoid. Ahmad says that his goal 
is to inform students about the “other side” of the Middle Eastern story — the side that, in his opinion, often goes unheard. 
 “There’s a huge humanitarian crisis going on in Palestine, ” 
Ahmad says, but it is a “nuanced” subject, and therefore, 
conversations and debates “can get emotional. ”
 The emotional nature tied to the political complexities in 
the Middle East are frequently viewed in this way — because Israelis 
and Palestinians alike are affected by the constant, sometimes fatal, 
ramifications of a country in war, conversations can become heated 
and argumentative.
  Ahmad has not personally experienced this to a great 
extent while advocating on campus. Instead, he explained, the type 
of dialogue he has experienced so far has been mostly “positive. ” 
“We’re not here to argue with people, ” he explained.
 But how does such a blatant display of passion and politics 
affect students of differing beliefs? 
 After my conversation with Ahmad, I walked to the 
“Israeli booth” several yards away, and had a conversation with 
ERC sophomore Sapir Levi, who leads the campus organization 
Tritons for Israel. She had a very different experience advocating 
for “Israel Solidarity” on campus.
 She started our interview by proclaiming: “Israel is 
my home. ” Very quickly, it became clear that Levi felt deeply 
uncomfortable during (what she referred to as) “Israel Solidarity 
Week. ” 
 “I see an injustice in how Israel is represented on campus 
and a strong obligation to advocate and communicate the Israeli 
narrative … [in order to] provide another side. ”
 I asked her if she felt that the Israeli narrative was the 
underrepresented one in media, to which she asserted with a strong 
“yes. ” 
Notably, advocates from both booths felt this lack of 
representation — something that became clear not only through 
conversation, but also through the way both booths defined certain 
terms, such as “Zionism. ”
 “The conflict [in the Middle East] is more complicated 
[than a] victim-perpetrator [relationship], ” Levi expressed, and 
thus, reflecting it as such made her feel misrepresented and 
misjudged. 
 She shared one student’s story, explaining how one girl 
claimed that her “TA forced [the class] to go and look at [the 
pro-Palestinian] wall, and didn’t bring them over to the [Israeli 
booth]. ”’ The Israeli student who was a part of that class, in a 
moment of vulnerability, was heartbroken. “That is a clear bias, ” 
one that was, to Levi, inappropriate in a classroom setting.
 But what about campus climate? Levi said that she 
experienced and witnessed deeply personal reactions to this week. 
“I have talked to people who feel uncomfortable walking to class. ”
 Like Ahmad, Levi agrees that the politics of the Middle 
East are complex, and she acknowledges that because of how 
personally students of both political views are affected, her 
“strategy for this week is: be empathetic. ” Every year, Students 
for Justice in Palestine 
and Tritons for 
Israel set up booths 
educating UCSD 
students on their 
stance as it pertains 
to Middle Eastern 
politics. To what 
extent does this 
form of controversial 
activism educate 
students and create 
dialogue?Student Justice: 
How “Justice for 
Palestine/Israeli 
Solidarity Week” 
Affects Campus 
Climate
by Shirelle Mizrahi // Staff Writer
Illustrstion by Dalida Rached
SeeSTUDENT JUSTICE  page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
by Shirelle Mizrahi // Staff Writer Every year, Tritons for Israel, in combination with any students 
who choose to join, walk through campus with Israeli flags in order to 
show solidarity. But this year, one major change has been set in place: 
They will not walk past the Palestinian booth or wall. 
 “Our intention isn’t to parade in front of [the pro-Palestinian 
activists], ” it is to show “solidarity. ” She explained that the goal was not 
to further the “divisive” narrative that to be “pro-Israel” was to be “anti-
Palestinian. ”
 These peace-keeping efforts have also been undertaken by the 
organization Students Justice for Palestine, in renaming their activism 
from “ Anti-Zionism Apartheid Week” to “Justice for Palestine, ” a change 
that, to Professor Provence of Middle Eastern affairs at UCSD, “is 
probably less provocative than ‘ Anti-Zionist Apartheid Week. ’”
 Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Kol Chaiken was 
noticeably reading the displays on Library Walk when she noticed one 
stand-out feature on the informative booths on either side: “the use of 
the word “apartheid” and how both groups that were tabling this week 
wanted to define it… [it was] defined completely differently. ”
 When asked about the displays and methods for activism, 
Chaiken responded: “I don’t think [there should be] limitations [on 
activism] … I might have a different response if the tables were set 
up differently, [but] right now it’s set up the way it works for both 
[organizations] and for other students. ”
 According to Chaiken, the displays and events can make 
students uncomfortable: “I think a lot of my Jewish friends that wear 
kippahs’ and dress in a certain way that indicates [their religion] feel 
more [uncomfortable] … but on our campus, I don’t think there has 
been [any specific thing] that has made [students] fearful … just 
nervous. ” When asked to clarify, Chaiken commented on the recent anti-
Semitic and anti-Muslim actions on other UC campuses. 
 To gain more insight into the intricacies of this subject, and to 
hear another opinion on methods of student activism, I spoke to Professor 
Provence. Provence has experience living in both Syria and Lebanon, and 
while pursuing his Ph.D. in 1999, was part of a UN-organized group trip 
to the Golan Heights, accompanied by a commanding officer of the UN 
unit of disengagement peacekeeping force. Provence also lived in Syria 
and Lebanon during numerous historically significant landmarks for 
the Middle East — namely, the 2000 Camp David negotiations, between 
former U.S. President Bill Clinton, Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak, 
and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, and the 2000 Israeli withdrawal 
from South Lebanon. Additionally, Provence has visited “various parts 
of the countries [Syria and Lebanon] affected” by the ongoing conflict, 
including Palestinian refugee camps in those areas.Provence spoke to me about student activism as it pertains to the 
Middle East. 
He asserted that “student activism is a long tradition … it’s part of the 
education students receive… to be politicized and involved in activist 
work. ” Nonetheless, he noted, activism as it pertains to Middle Eastern 
affairs is rare in the U.S.; college campuses seem to be the most prevalent 
exception.
 I asked Provence whether he believed that presenting strong 
biases as fact could be confusing or harmful to students who lack a 
knowledge about Middle Eastern politics or affairs, in engaging in 
dialogue. Could putting two core beliefs on display as fact suppress a 
growth mindset regarding political discourse? 
 Provence answered by stating that ultimately, “facts” such as the 
definition of the word “Zionist” or the concept of “an apartheid state” are 
not really facts: They are interpretations rooted in “ideological beliefs. ” 
Sometimes, these interpretations are supported by historic bases, but 
ultimately, they pertain to subjects of such nuance, that propagating 
an opinion should not be confused with disseminating unbiased or 
objective information.
 “We have to challenge [students] to defend [their arguments] 
with facts and and accurate historical evidence, ” instead of simply 
encouraging a defense of one “side, ” Provence agreed.
 When asked about the nature of “Justice for Palestine/Israel 
Solidarity” week as it pertains to campus climate, Provence was adamant 
that he did not believe that the university should set limitations on 
student activism or speech. 
“The university is not in the business of making people comfortable 
… in fact I would say that the role of the university is to make people 
uncomfortable … from time to time. ” 
Ideally, Provence believes that a free political climate should “challenge 
students to discuss” and debate as part of their method for activism. 
 “There have been, over the years, student groups that have 
managed to successfully have these [contentious] kinds of discussions 
… I think [everybody] should take Middle Eastern history courses … 
but many won’t because [they] don’t want to be disturbed by the facts … 
or [hear] information [questioning the] national narratives beloved by 
either side. ”
 “That’s the kind of discomfort that we should encourage, ” he 
concluded. 
 From STUDENT JUSTICE , page 6
Oliver  Kel ton  okelton@ucsd.edu
WEEKEND
Blade Runner 2049
Director: Denis Villeneuve
“Blade Runner” and our conception of neo-noir go 
hand-in-hand — it was definitional for the genre. Now, 
after 25 years and seven re-releases of the original sci-fi 
masterpiece, we’re finally getting a sequel this autumn: 
“Blade Runner 2049. ” The trailers feature an unsmiling 
Ryan Gosling navigating an even more dilapidated Los 
Angeles cityscape and the lonely ruins of the Tyrell 
penthouse. It’s been a long time. When Harrison Ford pops 
onscreen, grizzled and scowling, he’s the decrepitude of the 
world made manifest. Whatever’s going on, it doesn’t bode 
well for our two heroes. “2049” looks to be the science-
fiction film of the year, and director Denis Villeneuve, of 
“ Arrival” fame, is a perfect pick for a franchise just itching 
for exploitation.
—   Alicia Lepler
A&E Associate Editor
Girlboss
Creator/Network: Kay Cannon/Netflix
Looking for a spicy new series to binge watch over 
summer break? Then look no further to Netflix’s “Girlboss, ” 
a new show based on Sophia Amoruso’s book of the same 
name. The show is a loose retelling of how NastyGal 
founder Amoruso rose from rags to riches. Sophia, the 
series’ star, is portrayed by actress Britt Robertson who has 
previously been in productions like “The Secret Circle” and 
“Scream 4. ” If you like badass, self-made gals, “Girlboss” 
might just be up your alley. Sophia is struggling between 
jobs, quitting one after another, in the hopes of “figuring 
out life. ” With no more than an Ebay account to her name, 
she begins reselling vintage clothing that she finds at 
thrift stores and soon realizes that she could earn enough 
money through her online store to sustain herself from 
the comfort of her home. As life throws one problem after 
another her way, Sophia continues to find ways to take care 
of herself, for herself and by herself.
—  Lorena Espinoza
Contributing Writer
The Beguiled
Director: Sofia Coppola
Every summer, amid the vast sea of pessimistic sequels 
and Roland Emmerich copycats, a few sappy prestige 
pictures pop up to satisfy the cravings of famished Oscar 
junkies. “The Beguiled, ” however, is none of the above. In 
spite of being a bonafide Cannes favorite and the newest 
Coppola venture — Sofia won Best Director at the French 
festival — the film isn’t positioning itself to get much love 
this awards season. Akin to 2016’s “The Lobster, ” this 
adaptation is too strange and offbeat for the usual batch 
of overly sentimental and desperately political Academy 
voters. Instead, the genre-period-drama, which depicts the 
violent conflict between a sloppy soldier and the vengeful 
women he manipulates, will likely appeal to a more niche 
and disturbed crowd. And for those viewers, it’s promising 
to provide a thrillingly wicked ride. 
—  Jacky To
Senior Staff WriterDunkirk
Director: Christopher Nolan
It is rare to see films with Christopher Nolan’s 
(“Inception” and “The Dark Knight”) level of visual 
spectacle, cerebral themes and complex narratives. With 
“Dunkirk, ” the writer/director isn’t visiting the mind-
bending world of dreams or black holes, but rather a 
historical event, the Dunkirk evacuation. Starring Tom 
Hardy, Kenneth Branagh and Oscar-winner Mark Rylance, 
“Dunkirk” is a WWII thriller that centers on the evacuation 
of Allied soldiers from Dunkirk after being surrounded by 
German forces. The film is structured as a triptych, telling 
the story from three unique perspectives: land, sea and 
air. Christopher Nolan, known for his perfectionism and 
attention to detail, allegedly spent $5 million to crash a 
WWII Luftwaffe jet. With Nolan’s passion and precision, 
“Dunkirk” is a lock to be thrilling survival story, but it is 
anyone’s guess as to how it will unfold.
 
—   Naft ali  Burak ovsky
Staff WriterOrange is the New Black
Creator/Network: Jenji Kohan/Netflix
After four critically acclaimed seasons of drama, 
tension and baggy colored uniforms, be sure to catch the 
next installment of Netflix’s most-watched original show, 
“Orange is the New Black. ” Its fifth season will premiere 
June 9 on Netflix, picking up with 13 new episodes. This 
partially biographical (an epithet that becomes more and 
more of a stretch with each passing season) women’s prison 
dramedy follows Piper Chapman, a seemingly clean-cut 
woman whose past in the drug world sends her to prison 
for a year, as well as a varied cast of characters from a 
number of different backgrounds, exploring the different 
paths that lead people to prison. It has been known for 
some of its more ridiculous characters and witty humor, 
as well as darker storylines, not hesitating to tackle some 
of the heavier issues inherent in the prison system. This 
season will immediately follow last season’s cliffhanger, 
detailing the course of only three days in Litchfield Prison 
with immense detail. This structural change is something a 
bit different for the show, but this new take only contributes 
to the excitement of where it left off as the new season 
enters with the promise of something fresh.
—  Chloe Esser
Contributing Writer
Anne with an “E”
Creator/Network: Moira Walley-Beckett/Netflix
One of Netflix’s new series, “ Anne With an ‘E’” is a 
comforting, wholesome show to binge-watch this summer. 
Inspired by the classic children’s novel “ Anne of Green 
Gables” by Lucy Maud Montgomery, each episode centers 
around a different aspect or moment of the book. The first 
introduces Matthew (R.H. Thomson) and Marilla Cuthbert 
(Geraldine James), an older brother and sister looking 
to take in a young boy to assist them with strenuous 
household chores. Instead of the expected boy, Anne 
(Amybeth McNulty) is sent to them. As suggested by an 
early flashback, Anne had a difficult and traumatizing 
childhood, often treated more as an indentured servant 
than as a daughter. Despite this upbringing, however, Anne 
has an astonishing amount of hope and imagination that 
wins over the hearts of the Cuthberts and viewers alike. 
—  Dais y Scott
Staff WriterCars 3
Director: Brian Fee
Pixar’s “Cars” franchise is somewhat of an oddity. It’s 
a world of sentient cars, sentient planes and other talking 
vehicles. How do they eat? How do they reproduce? These 
are all questions that probably don’t need to be answered. 
After the critical flop that was “Cars 2, ” “Cars 3” seems 
to be Pixar’s attempt at redemption. In the trailers, our 
beloved Lightning McQueen suffers career-threatening 
injuries after an unfair race against high-tech supercars. 
This raises many questions, such as: Why aren’t there 
different divisions for supercars and classic racecars? Are 
supercars “genetically” engineered? How old is Lightning 
McQueen, and why is he still racing? 
In any case, “Cars 3” seems to be going the route of a 
traditional sports movie. Which means Lightning McQueen 
will likely go through grueling training montages and 
inspirational pep talks, ultimately regaining his reputation 
in a tense final race where winning doesn’t matter, because 
it’s all about the journey and not the destination. Expect 
lots of comedic shenanigans along the way.
Is it going to be any good? Time will tell. But if you’re 
a “Cars” fan or looking for a feel-good animated movie to 
watch over the summer, it’s probably worth checking out.
—   Derek Deng
Senior Staff WriterFunk W av Bounces Vol. 1
Artist: Calvin Harris
It’s the year 2014, and DJ Calvin Harris is the name 
behind every overplayed summer anthem on your 
convertible’s radio. However, his current forthcoming 
album “Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1” is catching the attention 
from foes of Top 40 radio. The album snags appearances 
from an ensemble of superstars like Frank Ocean, Ariana 
Grande and newcomer Khalid. “Slide” and “Heatstroke” 
were the first singles to set the groovy sneak-peek of 
Harris’ newfound musical path, and most recent release 
“Rollin” is another summer bop with an ‘80s twist. The 
album looks to be a concoction of modern synthesizers 
and soothing piano chords, which will surely be blasted 
at pool parties nationwide this summer. No more one-hit 
wonders for Mr. Harris.
—   Melissa P alafox
Senior Staff Writer
El Dorado
Artist: Shakira
After decades of honest hips, pan pipes and yodeling, 
Shakira is still making everybody wish that they were 
Colombian. This year, she’s turned us onto the very real 
possibility that the EDM-themed pop dominating the 
radio waves is simply superior in Spanish. The superstar 
has hit us one more time with “Chantaje, ” a pop song 
so addicting that it will switch your Y ouTube ads to 
Spanish within a week of its discovery. Her pop is still 
pristine — “Me Enamoré, ” and “La Bicicleta” are as good 
as anything off of “Laundry Service. ” Shakira really knows 
what she’s doing these days, and she’s having as much fun 
as she always does. Her understanding of the dancer’s ear 
displayed in “El Dorado” can only be described as mastery, 
with Mozart-esque employment of squeaks, bops and 
clicks. Here are the fatal siren songs of a glittering Latina 
robot, outshining humans and robots alike.
—   Susie Da vidson
Senior Staff Writer
Game of Thrones
Creators/Network: David Benioff & D. B. Weiss/
HBO
Six years after Ned Stark made his promise, winter 
has finally arrived, and with it comes the White Walkers, 
the greatest threat to Westeros amid the war for the Iron 
Throne. With Daenerys Targaryen taking her army, and 
her dragons, across the Narrow Sea, “Game of Thrones” is 
hightailing toward its bloody, epic conclusion. By the sixth 
season, the show had surpassed the events of George R.R. 
Martin’s book series, free to forge its own narrative. Now, 
with Arya back in Westeros as a trained assassin, Jon Snow 
learning his true identity and Sansa reclaiming her home at 
Winterfell, the future of the Stark children is in the hands 
of masterminds David Benioff and D.B. Weiss. On July 17, 
prepare to once again get lost within the weaving narratives 
of this thrilling fantasy epic.
—   Naft ali  Burak ovsky
Senior Staff Writer
Something to Tell Y ou
Artist: HAIM
In the four years since the release of their debut album, “Days Are Gone, ” the HAIM sisters 
have travelled the world, befriended Taylor Swift and her many boats, and avoided releasing 
any music since. Besides an occasional vocal contribution for famous friends, their eerie 
silence has built up an appetite among fans old and new. It wasn’t until earlier this month 
that the sisters broke their own break from music by releasing a music video for “Right 
Now, ” directed by premiere California auteur Paul Thomas Anderson. Framed in the dark 
of a studio, the sisters are surrounded by no more than flickering red lights and instruments 
clearly not meant for the stubby-fingered. “Right Now” is a natural evolution of the glossy 
folk pop of their earlier tracks, but a little more sparse and less reliance to an immediate, 
catchy hook. The last four years may not have been a break, but a necessary period of gestation. 
—   Sam Velazquez
A&E EditorCatching Up and 
What to Catch 
Summer 2k17A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // BRITTNEY LU & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTSA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
SAVE15%
Rates starting at $152.15!
CALL TODAY (619) 232-3861Snowfall
Creators/Network: John Singleton & Eric Amadio & Dave Andron/FX
In order to address the lack of representation of Mexican-Americans as 
both wrestlers and crime lords on television, “Snowfall” will be arriving July 
5 on FX. The series revolves around the birth of the crack cocaine epidemic 
in 1980s Los Angeles, courtesy of a misguided, imperialistic CIA, and how 
a structural indifference to people’s humanity has endangered marginalized 
peoples. We’ll be following both Franklin Saint, a local entrepreneur whose 
aspirations move him from relative freedom as an 
independent dealer to a cog in the machine, and 
Gustavo “El Oso” Zapata, our toned Mexican 
wrestler caught between crime families. 
Straight out of the gate, the show will 
premiere with a pilot directed by 
“Boyz n the Hood’s” John Singleton 
— whose penchant for color and 
action have bled through to the 
trailers’ saturated color palette. 
Los Angeles may not always be a 
hoot, but it can be a riot. 
—   Sam Velazquez
A&E Editor
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTS
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTS10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
Seth Gordon (“Horrible Bosses”) has 
resuscitated the long-expired hit TV 
series “Baywatch.” Unfortunately, 
neither he nor anyone on his team is 
able to breathe new life into this shallow 
summer blockbuster. Sensational images 
of tanned supermodels running the 
beaches in skin-tight, spandex swimwear 
will please the unashamed fans of stylized 
sex. For those looking for more than eye 
candy and crude penis jokes, drowning 
in the bay may be a better use of time. 
Lt. Mitch (Dwayne Johnson), a grown-
up boy scout trapped in the body of a 
steroid-pumping WWE wrestler, leads the 
Baywatch Team. They handle everything 
typical lifeguards do — drowning, 
shark attacks, exploding luxury yachts 
— plus they operate as Emerald Bay’s 
invisible police force. After conspicuously 
recovering drugs washed ashore from the 
tide, Baywatch initiates an investigation 
into the drug-smuggling operation run 
by the charming real-estate tycoon, 
Victoria Leeds (Priyanka Chopra). It’s lifeguards gone “Miami Vice,” which 
sounds a lot cooler conceptually than it 
is. The protagonists substitute bulletproof 
vests for spandex, the jokes only land 
a quarter of their punches and the 
run-time is unnecessarily drawn out. 
The withered narrative frame fails 
to deliver much excitement, mostly 
because its sequential repetition stunts 
any development of tension. The film 
redundantly retreads the “dress-up-
in-pretty-gowns-and-look-for-drugs” 
sequences too often, preventing 
the later scenes from feeling fresh 
or exciting. It doesn’t help that the 
obnoxious score plays all the wrong 
tunes at all the wrong moments. 
The goal of any comedy is to make 
people laugh, and sadly, “Baywatch” 
hardly manages. The film is the most fun 
when it hyperbolically parodies itself. It 
understands the absurdity of the original 
television series, and it never takes itself 
too seriously. The excessive exaggeration 
of Baywatch’s role as a covert, heroic task force is amusing, but the humor cultivates 
a shallow, juvenile tone. It does have some 
clever jokes about gender expectations, 
such as when Leeds is called crazy for 
her diabolical scheming, and she replies, 
“If I was a man you’ d call me driven. ” But 
expect any resemblance of intellect to be 
undermined by Stephen Hawking jokes, 
an awkward cross-dressing scene and 
some surprisingly graphic penis jokes.    
Mitch is the most compelling character 
and a suitable anchor for the film, as his 
oceanic idealism and compassion for his 
team are likable traits. All the others 
are dull. Matt Brody (Zac Efron) is a 
strange chameleon who plays any role 
the story needs to move forward. At 
one point he recklessly weaves a stolen 
motorcycle through a crowded pier to 
launch himself after a drowning woman; 
at another he adamantly insists that 
lifeguards shouldn’t be doing this type 
of work. As for the female characters, 
well, anyone familiar with the source 
material should expect them to look really good but have no personal story 
arcs or clear motivations. Instead, they 
play the typical romantic interests, and 
their relationships are so forcefully 
constructed through the most awkward 
and unfunny dialogue that it’s easy to 
blush with secondhand embarrassment.
“Baywatch” is a sensational film that 
heavily relies on its visual appeal. Sadly, 
the Floridian filming locations and hot-
red swimsuits become trite before the 
film reaches the halfway mark. Don’t 
even bother to look beneath the surface 
because there’s not much there. As a 
comedy, it’s over-the-top and knows 
it, yet somehow remains unaware that 
the jokes ran dry a long time ago.
—   Ma tt Jennings
Senior Staff WriterThe concept of hot lifeguards overstepping their jurisdiction as police sounds a lot more exciting than what the film executes. 
FILM REVIEW
Ba yw a tch
Director   Seth Gordon
Starring  Dwayne Johnson, Zac Efron, Priyanka Chopra
Release Date   May 25
Rated   RD
PHOTO COURTESY OF PARAMOUNT PICTURESA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
One thing is made clear from the 
moment the pilot episode begins: 
“Riverdale” is not your grandfather’s 
Archie Comics. As Cole Sprouse narrates in 
the beginning of the series, “Riverdale” is 
a story about a small town and the people 
who live in it. While everything is seemingly 
normal on the surface, one of Riverdale’s own 
is unexpectedly murdered, and the tragedy 
causes a chain reaction of harrowing revelations 
that forces the people of Riverdale to realize 
their town isn’t as wholesome as it appears.
Adapted from the legendary Archie Comics, 
“Riverdale” reintroduces us to characters such 
as high-schooler Archie Andrews (KJ Apa), his 
best friend and social outcast Jughead Jones 
(Cole Sprouse), former socialite Veronica 
Lodge (Camila Mendes) and the girl-next-
door Betty Cooper (Lili Reinhart). The four 
teenagers find themselves in the middle of 
a murder investigation all while trying to survive high school and their respective family 
situations. It’s pretty exciting to see a modern 
adaptation of familiar characters, but truth be 
told, they’re far from the squeaky-clean teens 
of the comics. They’re generally likeable but 
also risque. While the pacing of character 
development is a little haphazard, the main 
characters are given adequate screen time so 
their layers and complexities can be explored.
However, the show walks a fine line 
between cosplaying as the Archie Comics and 
actually using the comics as source material. 
It doesn’t devolve into just blatantly shoving 
references in your face all the time, but it 
often masquerades as an original show that 
happens to share locations and character 
names. One extremely satisfying tribute to 
the original comic happens in the beginning 
of the seventh episode, where Jughead has a 
dream sequence of the characters dressed as 
they appear in the comics. Other than that, it’s easy to forget that the show is an adaptation 
of a 75-years-old comic book series, 
especially since the whole murder thing isn’t 
exactly characteristic of the Archie Comics.
The CW also has a reputation for 
excessively melodramatic shows (e.g. “Gossip 
Girl”), and “Riverdale” falls right into its oddly 
specific programming realm, characterized by 
pretentious teenagers thrown into ludicrous 
situations. Even though “Riverdale” is mostly 
self-aware of its angst, it’s hard not to get 
distracted by the overly somber moments. 
The characters have more emotional heart-
to-heart confessionals than the Kardashians 
do, and the unironically formal dialogue 
is borderline disturbing considering the 
characters are in high school. The execution 
of the murder mystery also leaves something 
to be desired. The show attempts to pull off 
as many shocking revelations as possible, 
but it gets sloppy. Essential information is discovered at eerily convenient times, and side 
plots are heavily emphasized for a few episodes 
and then completely forgotten afterward.
“Riverdale” is the kind of show that 
requires you to be aware of its flaws in order 
to be fully appreciated. The buildup of the 
mystery does pay off as the season goes on, 
and the plot is intriguing enough to want to 
keep watching despite the shortcomings in its 
execution. At the very least, it’s an enjoyable 
teen drama that has potential to improve 
and succeed thanks to the deep Archie lore, 
but it’s an acquired taste. So as long as you’re 
willing to put up with the campiness and 
cheesy melodramatics, “Riverdale” might 
just become your next guilty-pleasure show.
—   Ell y sa Lim
Senior Staff WriterThe Archie Comics go dark in a teen drama that hasn’t quite found the balance between style and substance.
“Smokey and the Bandit” is a screwball comedy that uses Bandit as a means of expanding on the stereotype of Southern cowboys.
TV  REVIEW
RESTROSPECTIVERiverdale  (Season 1)
Smokey And The Bandit 
Creator   Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa
Starring  KJ Apa, Cole Sprouse, Lili Reinhart, Camila Mendes
Runs   Full Season Available on The CW website and Netflix
Rated   TV-14
Director   Hal Needham
Starring  Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed
Rated   PGB-
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE CW
PHOTO COURTESY OF AUSTIN MOVIE BLOG
To celebr ate the 40th anniversary of its 
release, Turner Classic Movies sponsored 
nationwide screenings of the screwball 
comedy “Smokey and the Bandit, ” starring Burt 
Reynolds, Sally Field and Jackie Gleason. Full 
of bootlegging, car chases, trucks and southern 
dialect, this film is what a rote country western 
song would be like if made into a movie. 
If viewed as a satire of the South, “Smokey 
and the Bandit” could be considered a humorous, 
somewhat substantial film. However, it mostly 
comes off as a glorification of stereotypical notions 
of “southern, ” reckless behavior. The story begins 
with Bandit (Burt Reynolds) being approached by 
two men who ask him to bootleg a truck of beer 
from Texas and drive it back to Georgia in under 28 
hours. As he and his friend, Snowman (Jerry Reed) 
pull off the charade, they encounter a runaway bride, 
Carrie (Sally Field). Carrie joins their speedy heist, 
attracting the attention of Sheriff Buford T . Justice 
(Jackie Gleason), who proceeds to chase them 
along with a whole squad of inept policemen from 
Texas all the way to Georgia. From that moment 
onward, the film is merely a continuous car chase, 
with Bandit distracting the police force’s attention from the truck full of illegal booze by speeding 
through rural backwoods and major highways. 
The primary focus of “Smokey and the 
Bandit” is to glorify Bandit and the desirability 
of his lifestyle. He has the fastest cars, a daring 
demeanor, a multitude of friends and supporters, 
no lack of women interested in him, and he easily 
laughs in the face of danger. Even the soundtrack 
of the movie centers around Bandit, with each 
song containing lyrics alluding to the adventures 
that he is either currently embarking on or his past 
accomplishments. This creates a style throughout 
the movie that is reminiscent of old epic poems, with 
Bandit as its antihero. His ever-present cowboy hat 
suggests that he is himself a modernization of the 
Old West’s cowboys, except instead of taming and 
racing horses he wrangles automobiles and trucks. 
Carrie and Bandit form a central relationship 
that is just as rushed as the crazy car chase they are 
a part of. Its development is almost nonexistent, 
and the second Sally Field jumps into the car wide-
eyed in her wedding dress it is predictable that a 
relationship, at least on a physical level, will ensue. 
However, as it exists only to add to the idolization 
of Bandit, it plays into the absurdity of the film. Actually, the best and healthiest relationship in the 
film is the affection displayed between Snowman 
and his hound dog, Fred. No matter how rough the 
situation gets, Snowman treats Fred with the utmost 
respect and defends him from all physical harm. 
Within this light-hearted comedy, though, there 
are elements of racism that provide for moments of 
seriousness and wrongly suggest that it is appropriate 
to laugh at this problem. First, though it is only 
noticeable in a couple of shots, there is what appears 
to be a Confederate flag casually displayed on the 
bumper of Bandit’s car. At the time the movie was 
made, it may have been somewhat acceptable to 
relaxedly display this symbol, but now its inclusion 
contributes to the subtle message of the persistence 
of racism. Later, while Sheriff Justice is contacting 
another district’s sheriff about the issue of chasing 
Bandit via radio, he treats the other sheriff with a 
relative amount of respect. Upon meeting the sheriff 
personally, though, and realizing that he happens to 
be African-American, Sheriff Justice quickly loses 
his previous demeanor and informs the other sheriff 
that “he sounded taller on the phone. ” Incorporating 
these factors results in several things: First, it is a 
reminder that the film was made in the ‘70s, shortly after the height of the Civil Rights Movement. 
Secondly, the fact that these aspects were so briefly 
included in a screwball comedy movie, while the 
film is clearly aware of their inclusion, incorrectly 
implies it is fine to laugh at them. Also, it reveals the 
irony in Sheriff Buford T . Justice’s name, as he clearly 
is not a fair follower of justice himself. The movie is 
too fast-paced to properly deal with these important 
matters, though, and masks them all with attempts 
of humor. Doing so thus eliminates the opportunity 
for a discussion on the problems of racism to 
arise, and viewers should be aware of this offensive 
content without looking for additional commentary. 
Overall, “Smokey and the Bandit” is a screwball 
that takes practically no brainpower to absorb 
what is going on. It appeals only to a specific 
window of humor, and those that feel compelled 
to see this film should only watch it purely for 
its simplistic, vaguely funny entertainment. For 
more information on more Turner Classic Movie 
film screenings coming up, visit fathomevents.com. 
—   Dais y Scott
Staff Writer12                                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  M AY  3 0 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
It’s that time of year where Housing Dining Hospitality 
is ending the one or two-year residential agreements, 
effectively kicking you out into the cold reality of apartment 
contracts and paid Wi-Fi. Off-campus housing is a hectic hassle 
at best, cut-throat leasing office throwdown at worst. Think of it 
more as a lived experience — an adventure, if you will — where 
off-campus living is nothing more than the brave soul’s segue 
into moving out and moving on into the hybrid-adult, but still-
broke, college student trope. But the physical separation at the 
end of the day from UCSD is not too bad. So if you’re looking 
for a five-star getaway out of Tamarack, we recommend the 
spa situated across from Pangea Parking Structure; but, we can 
offer a few three-and-a-half-star choices along Nobel or La Jolla 
Village Drive. 
A Tale of Two Apartments — Costa Verde Village 
8720 Costa Verde Boulevard La Jolla, CA 92122
2.1 out of 5 stars (courtesy of Google) // $-$$$ ($1800-$3500)
This expansive complex is secluded between La Jolla Village 
Drive and Regents Drive and is pretty much student housing 
inconveniently placed about a mile and a half outside of campus. 
A classic to UC San Diego students, promised average living at 
best, and not to be confused with the Costa Verde Towers — 
Costa Verde Village’s sister complexes across the street. If you 
ever cross the street to get frozen yogurt or Chipotle Mexican 
Grill in the shopping center nearby (one—if not only—of the 
highlights of living here), there’s a good chance of stumbling 
into Costa Verde Towers, a resort-like condominium with 
enclosed hallways and smooth elevators. Y ou inadvertently get 
to live out the modern day Charles Dickens’ narrative between 
two complexes dealing with design and economic division 
courtesy of Costa Verde Boulevard. See? Adventure. Villagers, be 
prepared to wake up to garbage truck pickups, fall asleep to the 
sound of other students in the hallways, drafty winters and stuffy 
summers. But we promise it’s not all bad. CV Village residents 
have access to Agua Bella Gym, or what is basically a smaller, 
displaced RIMAC, a plethora of buses, including the 202, 30, 150, 
41 and 237 routes and a decent monthly rent, if you strategically 
pull and place people into your new one, two or two-plus a loft 
bedroom home. Not to mention, each unit has its own washer 
and dryer set, meaning you never have to haul dirty laundry to 
a communal room, or have clothes angrily strewn about when 
you forgot to take it out of the dryer, for as long as your lease 
shall last. A (Debateable) Paradise, Hidden in Palm Trees — 
International Gardens
3417 Lebon Drive San Diego, CA 92122
3.3 out of 5 stars (courtesy of Google) // $$ ($1600-$2400, 
utilities included)
A self-proclaimed “luxury lifestyle” apartment, International 
Gardens is a smaller community with a seaside-hotel feel, 
centered around BBQ grills, a beach volleyball court and pool 
— all of which help create a sense of gathering, something not 
many complexes can offer. Truth be told, availability is difficult 
to come by, so if you’re able to snag a space or take over a 
friend’s lease, consider yourself lucky. IG units are relatively 
spacious, and with enough people per unit, rent is also decently 
fair (at least for La Jolla living). But with access to only the 
202, be ready to wake up early to catch the bus for class, lest 
Superloop pass you one, two or (from personal experience) 
three times. And with the surrounding area consisting of other 
apartment complexes, residents don’t have the immediate luxury 
of commercial buildings or food and coffee in the proximate 
area. Parking can also be a challenge, especially with bumper-
to-bumper spaces and all-too-close columns that threaten to 
scratch the car. Overall, IG is a quieter complex, with a resort-like 
climate that not many seem to complain about. 
A Costly Corner — Regents Court
8465 Regents Road San Diego, CA 92122
4.3 out of 5 stars (courtesy of Google) // $$-$$$ ($1700-
$3000)
Who’s the bougie-est of them all? At Regents Court, the 
leasing office and model rooms are decorated straight out of 
a luxe Pottery Barn, so if you really want to feel like a high-
functioning adult, this is the place to do it. Boasting a pool and 
spa enclosed at the center, a well-equipped gym and a movie 
theater, the public amenities at this complex are fit for the La 
Jolla high roller. The apartment units themselves feature spacious 
and separate dining and living rooms, washer and dryer sets 
and, personally, the nicest carpeting I’ve ever taken a nap on. 
Primarily a housing space for families or the business executive, 
the rent ranges from around $1700-$2000 for a one bed, one bath 
and up to $2500-$3000 for a two bed, two bath, so grab a pal or 
two to fill this place. It’s a pretty penny to pay but well worth it 
for the quality received. It may not be as accessible to multiple 
bus stops or commercial centers, but a short jaunt about the 202 
can take you to La Jolla Village Square. Nevertheless, if you have 
had enough of the mini double dorm life, and are looking for a quieter space, this is a good place to nest. 
The Contested Recommendation — La Regencia
7681 Palmilla Drive San Diego, CA 92122
2 out of 5 stars (courtesy of Google) // $$-$$$ ($2000-$3000)
An anonymous reviewer commented, “The good thing about 
[this place] is that it’s very close to the bus stop, and that’s it. ” 
Promising. While rent is a pretty penny, not many tend to 
recommend this apartment; especially because the quality of 
apartments can range from one side of the complex to another. 
The rooms are relatively spacious and utilities function properly, 
although again, this is contingent on what part of the complex 
the unit happens to be located. Nonetheless, there comes a 
time in each apartment hunter’s life, where a space is needed 
and desperate measures are taken. So if all else fails, there is La 
Regencia, a place recommended by some, adamantly refused by 
others (depending on which side of the complex lived in). At 
least Vons and Tapioca Express are right down the street, and 
you’ll get a washer and dryer in the comfort of your own home. 
Not the Vegas One — The Venetian Apartments
3945 Nobel Drive San Diego, CA 92122
5 out of 5 stars (courtesy of Google) // $$ (starting around 
$1300)
While the Venetian is no high-end resort and casino as seen 
on the Vegas strip, this cozy and humble complex located at a 
quick turn off of Nobel Drive is easily missed but a gem for many 
reasons. The units are well furnished, facilities are up to date and 
most units have since been upgraded. And apparently there is a 
man named “ Alan” who helps run this complex and is promised 
to be one of the kindest and most helpful landlords Nobel Drive 
has seen. Most residents rave about this space, and despite the 
transience of the population demographics in University City, 
would recommend staying here. With a mix of yuppies, students 
and young families, this quiet and perhaps overlooked apartment 
is one worth giving a drop by. 
So maybe moving out and moving on doesn’t have to be as 
scary as presumed. There are a share of a few questionable spaces 
outside of the UCSD housing bubble, but the off-campus life is 
one that helps ease into what housing and “adulting” can look 
like after graduation. Plus, you can keep a pet. Any questions or 
other recommendations? Email us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org! Moving Out 
&
Moving On  
compiled by: Lifestyle Staff
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORACALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER  KING, JR.
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
PRICE CENTER THEATRETahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 29 - JUN  42017
POWERE D BY THE 
STUD ENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND  THE UCSD  GUARDIAN
TUE5.30 THU6.01THURSDAY6.01  • 7pm
FRI6.02
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguardian.orgWED5.31
9am
ART, ACTIVISM, & ACADEMIA: 
CGS PERSPECTIVES ON 
INTERSECTIONAL RESISTANCE - 
MULTIPLE LOCATIONS
*Intersec tional Resistance in the University  
CrossCultural Center, 94pm, Food will be served.  
Featuring CGS' Affiliate facult y, Graduate  
students, Honors students and S OLHOT. 
*Intersec tional Resistance Partying: Music,  
Dance, Song, & Food for the Critical Masses San  
Diego Art Ins titute in Balboa Park, 79pm, Food  
will be se rved. Featuring perfo rmances from  
SOLHOT, Gelare Khoshgozaran, DJ Kuttin Kandi,  
Diana Cervera, BNS Hip Hop & Ballet Folklorico.  
Contact: cgs@ucsd.edu Website:  
https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10 4
4182775681336.1073741831.60498465960115 2
&type=1 &l=a9bdea1d1 8
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
A practice to help increase focus and  
concen tration, reduce st ress and gain a sense of  
well-being. Whether or not you have ever  
meditated, you may enjoy this sampling of  
techniques as they guide you to the bliss ful 
silence behind though ts. Seated, standing, lying  
down and moving techniques may be covered.  
Suitable for all levels of experience. All classes  
with Vou Athens. Contact: sltan@ucsd.ed u
5pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHO IR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Directed by facul ty member Ken Anderson, the UC 
San Diego Gospel Choir combines hundreds of  
voices to fill the audito rium with the uplifting  
sound of A frican American spiri tuals, blues,  
traditional songs and gospel. Will Call tickets will 
be available for pickup in the Mandeville  
Audito rium lobby one hour prior to the concer t's 
scheduled start. Tickets will also be available fo r 
purchase in the lobby prior to the concert start.  
Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu Website:  
http://musicweb.ucsd.edu/c/20170601-Gospel3
8pm
THE INTERMISSION ORCHESTRA: 
SPRING 2017 CONCE RT - PC 
WEST BALLROOM
The Intermission Orchestra is pleased to present  
to you our Sp ring 2017 Concert! Come enjoy a  
night of incredible music from beloved video  
games, animes, and films. Pieces we will be  
playing include favorites from Legend of Zelda,  
Your Lie in April, Final Fantas y, Pokemon, Madoka  
Magica, Overwatch, Kiki's Delivery Service...just  
to name a few! I t's the perfect opportunity to  
unwind before finals week stress. So, invite your  
friends, be sure to arrive early fo r good seats, and  
allow us to serenade you with the culmination of  
our ha rd work and dedication! Admission is free.  
Contact: ysye@ucsd.edu  10am
UCSD FARM ERS' MARK ET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesda y, 10am-2pm. Meet ou r local gro wers 
and enjo y farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food 
vendo rs have a lit tle some thing fo r everyone.  
Bring a reusable bag, o r buy one o f our all-ne w 
canvas to tes for your pu rchases. Town Squa re on 
Myers D rive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu  
Website: 
http://students.ucsd.edu/studen t-life/involvemen t
/organiza tions/farme rs-market.htm l
11am
ART & SOUL: CREATE YOUR OWN 
GRATITUDE JOURNAL - THE ZONE
Decora te a jou rnal and make an entry every day  
about something you are thankful for! Workshops  
are free; all supplies and ma terials provided.  
Space is limited and is fi rst come, firs t served.  
Contact: sltan@ucsd.ed u
3pm
R&R SQUAD CH AIR M ASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low -intensity massage from the  
R&R Squad ! Contact: sltan@ucsed.ed u
6pm
GRAD  NITE - UCSD  BOOKSTORE
Congra tulations Triton Seniors ! UCSD's red  
carpet, gradua tion kick-off part y for the class of  
2017! Senio rs, bring you r family & friends to this  
not-to-be-missed event. Pick up your cap & gown, 
free food, fun zone with DJ and pho to booth,  
Alumni, class rings, diploma f rames, g rad 
announcemen ts, senio r portraits, thousands o f 
dolla rs worth of p rizes, PL US sales exclusive to  
this nigh t only. Contact: d froehlich@ucsd.edu  
Website: 
https://ucsandiegobookstore.com/Images /GradNit
eWebFlie r2017.pd f10am
ART, ACTIVISM, & ACADEMIA: 
CGS  PERSPECTIVES ON 
INTERSECTIONAL R ESISTANCE - 
MULTIPLE LOCATIONS
Wednesda y, May 31st * Black Feminist  
Genealogies: The Making o f SOLHOTLex Womens  
Center, 1011:30am, Food will be served. *The  
Asylum: Al ternative Sonic Registers o f Black  
Girlhood G reat Hall at I -House, 13pm, Food will  
be served. *Intersectional Resistance in the 9 to  
5 Life Digital Gym in North Park, 79pm, Food will  
be served. Contact: cgs@ucsd.edu Website:  
https://www.facebook.com /media/set/?set=a.1 0
44182775681336.1073741831.604984659601 1
52&type=1 &l=a9bdea1d1 8
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for you r free analysis which includes:  
body weight, pe rcentage body fat, total bod y 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment  
per quarte r is available to regis tered U CSD 
studen ts. Contact: sl tan@ucsd.ed u
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR M ASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a lo w-intensity massage f rom 
the R&R Squad ! Contact: sltan@ucsed.ed u
2:30p m
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-st ress with the CAPs Wellness Peers!  
Measure your psychological stresso rs and learn  
more about what makes you mos t stressed, ho w 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your  
stress levels do wn! Workshops a re all f ree. Space  
is limited and is first come, fi rst served. Contac t: 
sltan@ucsd.ed u
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Frida y International Ca fe is a weekly lunch hos ted 
by the In ternational Cente r featuring a different  
count ry every week, where students, facult y, and  
staff can learn abou t the culture as well as enjoy  
a representa tive cuisine o f the featured coun try. 
Invite your friends for a fun lunch and a plate full 
of delicious cuisines for $5 a plate! $5 a plate  
The schedule for the qua rter are as follo ws: June 
2 - South Af rica June 9 - China Any questions?  
Please email Mai Eguchi at maie@mail.ucsd.edu.  
See you there! Contact: maie@mail.ucsd.edu  SAT6.03
10am
VOLUNTEER AT WILD WILLOW 
FARM!  - OFF-CAMPUS
The event will consist o f an educational field  
trip consisting of a tour around the organic  
farm to experience and lea rn abou t the farming  
model, the oppo rtunity to visi t and feed 
animals on the farm (including a worm  
tunnel), and direct engagement th rough a  
group activity! Keep in mind that this is an  
intergenera tional event that will include UCSD 
students in teracting closely with residents  
from a local reti remen t home. 2550 Sunse t 
Ave, San Diego, CA 92154 Contact: 
sel071@ucsd.edu 6264250425 Website:  
https://goo.gl/ forms/jBj CmIaX xuRK2Xw x2
ucsandiegobookstore.com
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1. “The Wind in the Willows” fellow
4. Potatoes
9. Rover’s buddy
13. Agcy. of the U.N.
14. Pirogue
15. Cerebral achievement
16. Supine
19. Light bulb measures
20. “___ better to have loved ... ”
21. Something to bank on?
23. Delete
24. “Hold up!”
26. Regarding
27. Caused to go
28. Sound like a dove
29. Locale for Christmas stockings
31. Judicatures
34. Knight ride
35. SWAT team specialists
38. Go after
39. Panic
40. Jim Varney role
42. Circle section
43. Corp. officer
47. Young chaps
48. Race car type
50. Sports venue
51. CD forerunners
52. Mayberry notable
53. Like Orbison’s woman
54. Museum focus, often
58. Shepherd’s charges
59. Tragic role
60. Golfer Trevino
61. Would-be DA’s worry
62. Solemnly promised
63. Plaines leader?Down
1. Searches through
2. Attraction
3. Without exception
4. Biscuitlike cake
5. Hardly recommends
6. Dos preceder
7. Put on
8. Take care of
9. Whoppers
10. Actress Lupino
11. Wine bottle
12. Red and white, among others
17. Precedent setters, often
18. Name of a kingdom until 1939
22. Blend
24. Most revolting
25. Impetuous one
26. Shed some light on
28. Stanley or Dixie, e.g.
30. Regarding
32. Unrefined metals
33. Having second thoughts
35. Explosive shell
36. Some carpentry tools
37. Tolkien cannibal
38. Space at the end of a sentence?
41. Layer
44. Like many a tale
45. Dinner selection
46. Give permission
49. Approaches
50. Firefighter’s bane
52. Boom alternative
53. Fishing spot
55. It’s bagged in the supermarket
56. Cattle call?
57. Med. groupPETS
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 
- Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the 
limitation of two pets, therefore, I have to 
rehome two little creamy kittens. One is a girl 
(Pic3)and the other is a boy(Pic 1). They are 
playful, intelligent, and friendly. The boy has 
two levels of hair (dark and light creamy) and 
he likes to eat. The girl is sooo energetic, her 
eyes are bright! No ve. Listing ID: 310088197 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - Pug 
Puppies for sale, we accept all Major credit 
cards thru PayPal if you prefer to use your 
credit card, or we can accept cash, totally up 
to you, below we have written an individual 
Bio of each available puppy to help you 
get acquainted with each puppy. Meeka 
is a beautiful Sable Silver Fawn, she is an 
absolute sweetheart, she is best buddies. 
Listing ID: 310088070 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - 
$1300 - Houston is a Chocolate & White 
Teddy Bear male.This Adorable boy has his 
current shots and vet checks and will weigh 
around 9-13lbs. Houston will follow you 
everywhere you go. He comes with a 1 Year 
Health Guarantee and you can find him in 
San Diego,CA. 619-786-7362 or http://www.
puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 310087920 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
HOUSING
2 bedroom Mission Valley East - $2700 - 
$1350.00-$2700 / 2br - 1100 ft2 - Incredible 
Resort Apartment, Gym, 3 Pools, Yoga, 
Rooftop Lounge, Dogs Welcome! Resort style 
living in the most incredible brand new 
apartment complex in Mission Valley but 
were leaving due to work. There is also a 
brand new strip center just across the street 
with a Vons, multiple restaurants, Coffee 
shops, and more. So we are offering up our 
2 bedroom 2 full bath apartment on the 3rd 
story with a balcony overlooking the pool. 
We are the first residents to live in this unit 
as this is a brand new; first year complex 
that opened in May 2016. The apartment has wood flooring in the common areas, granite 
countertops, brand new washer and dryer 
in the unit, brand new stove + appliances, 
walk in closets, ample storage space, and a 
balcony overlooking the pool with a great 
view of the common area. Our unit also 
comes with a parking spot conveniently 
located on the 3rd floor so you don’t have to 
carry your groceries up or down. It is also dog 
friendly. Because we are leaving early you’ll 
be taking over our lease so that implies you 
get a 6 month lease and are not locked into a 
year. At the end of 6 months you can choose 
to renew for longer (month to month or a 
full year). The price is $2700/month for our 
2 bedroom 2 bath or $1350.00 if you have 
a roommate and includes: 1100+ square 
feet. Gated indoor (3rd story) parking place 
near unit. 3 swimming pools. Cabanas with 
flat screen tvs. Game center with ping pong, 
pool tables, arcade games Unlimited Play 
for FREE. Fast FREE wifi in all common areas, 
apartments, rooftops, pools & vicinities. 45 
person movie theatre with couch luxury 
seating that is available for reservations FREE. 
Multiple FREE Starbucks coffee dispensers. 
multiple business conference centers. 5+ 
rooftop lounges with wifi, fire pits, couches, 
and BBQ. Two state of the art gyms with 
rock climbing wall, tvs, couches, + 1 is 24 
hour w/ FREE individual & group sessions. 
Three jacuzzis. FREE community events 
including cooking classes and social hours 
(FREE cocktails). Dog park 2 blocks away. 
Shopping center 1 block away. Mission Valley 
2 blocks away. All new appliances in unit. 
Washer dryer in unit. Granite countertops. 
Centrally located to everything. This room 
will go fast as you won’t be able to get a 
6 month lease anywhere else or thru the 
complex (although we’ve already spoke with 
the leasing office and they’ll be helping us 
with the transfer to you). Feel free to give 
me a text/ call if you would like to come by 
for a tour. The apartment becomes available officially November 1st but we can be out 
of here earlier if you would like and would 
cover the rest of RENT COST for October for 
you. This is an amazing deal as Mission Valley 
is centrally located with the 5, 805, 8, 15, 
and 163 freeways all nearby, the airport just 
8 minutes South West, beaches 7 minutes 
West, downtown 6 minutes South, Pacific 
Beach 7 minutes north west, and north 
park 5 minutes South.Listing ID: 309519691 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
1 bedroom North Park - $1695 -  Weekly 
or Monthly rental *(Sorry no Pets of any 
kind or musical Instruments). Very Nice 1 
bedroom apartment, completely furnished 
with modern furnishings, large kitchen 
with new appliances. Secure front parking 
and close to public transportation and 
the exciting shopping eating Districts of 
Northpark and El Cajon Blvd. Unit has all 
new plates, utensils, linen and electronics 
including computer great for person(s) 
on business/travel/ or relocation who are 
looking for a nice home versus hotel. Rates 
vary from weekly to monthly which includes 
parking/garbage internet with computer. 
There are also Washer and dryer in building. 
If you would like to hear more or have other 
questions you can reach me direct after 
12 noon till 10 p.m. by phone text show 
contact info or anytime via email *(Phone 
calls however receive faster response. Thanks 
for your interest..... Listing ID: 308163413 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
1 bedroom Gaslamp Quarter - $2000 - 1 
bedroom Gaslamp Quarter. Listing ID: 
306253600 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
SPRING 2017
M: 10am-1pm
Tu/Th:  12:30 pm-2pm
W: 10am-1pm
F: 12pm -3pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTE RHOURS
/tritonfood pantryAfter a rather lackluster playoffs, 
the National Basketball Association 
Finals is finally upon us. The finals 
matchup between the Golden 
State Warriors and the Cleveland 
Cavaliers will begin on Thursday, 
June 1. This is the third installation 
of Warriors versus Cavaliers, and it 
is not a matchup to miss. Golden 
State has revamped the team, adding 
former-MVP and four-time-NBA-
scoring champion Kevin Durant to 
its core group of Stephen Curry, Klay 
Thompson and Draymond Green. 
Cleveland has made some changes to 
its lineup, albeit with players nowhere 
near the level of Durant, replacing 
guard Matthew Dellavedova with 
veteran Deron Williams and adding sharpshooter Kyle Korver to the 
lineup. 
The Warriors
The Warriors play a style of 
basketball that one might be inclined 
to characterize as “the right way. ” 
Even with the presence of four stars, 
they share the ball unselfishly in order 
to find the best possible look. That 
isn’t to say that there aren’t moments 
of isolation basketball, but generally, 
Golden State finds its points through 
constant off-ball movement, multiple 
screens and timely passes. All of their 
players are competent playmakers, 
perhaps with the exception of center 
Javale McGee, and this allows for 
the deadly ball movement that the 
Warriors are known for. 
Golden State also has one of the 
top defensive teams in the league. 
Its defensive prowess stems from the versatility of Green, Durant and 
Andre Iguodala. These players are 
able to guard multiple positions, 
which makes it easier for their 
teammates on switches for the pick-
and-roll. Thompson tops off Golden 
State’s defense; he is a superb one-on-
one defender who is often assigned 
to defend the opposing team’s best 
player. 
The Cavaliers
Cleveland’s offense primarily 
revolves around two things: isolation 
and pick-and-rolls. When offense 
is needed, it is up to Kyrie Irving 
and LeBron James to create offense 
for the Cavaliers. To overcome the 
problem of defenses focusing all of 
their attention on Irving and James, 
the Cavaliers have surrounded their 
star players with capable three-point 
shooters. Kevin Love, Kyle Korver, Deron Williams and JR Smith 
offer floor spacing for Cleveland. 
The presence of these three-point 
snipers spaces the floor and allows 
the team’s primary ball-handlers 
more breathing room to operate. 
Cleveland’s heavy emphasis on three-
point shooting plays to the strengths 
of its big men. Love and Tristan 
Thompson are extremely talented 
offensive rebounders. To expand on 
this, three point shooting often leads 
to long rebounds, so Thompson and 
Love are able to use their rebounding 
skills to secure multiple possessions 
for the Cavaliers. 
What to watch for:
When watching the Warriors 
offense, try not to follow the ball too 
much. Instead, observe how the four 
players are moving in relation to the 
ball and the floor. See how they cut and set screens to shift the defense. 
When watching the Cavaliers 
offense, look at how Irving and James 
attack the defenders off the dribble. 
Watch how Golden State switches 
(or doesn’t) off the screens set by 
Cleveland’s big men. Another point 
of emphasis is paying attention to the 
relative lack of off-ball movement that 
the Cavaliers have when compared to 
the Warriors. 
Compare the two offenses and see 
how the defense reacts.
I don’t know if it will top the 
Cavaliers’ historic 3–1 comeback, 
but I can assure you that this Finals 
matchup will be a very exciting series 
to watch. 
My prediction? Warriors in seven. 
Richard  Lu  ril014@ucsd,eduBY  R i c h a r d  L u
STAFF WRITER
Cavaliers v. Warriors III: NBA Finals Preview and PredictionThree members from the UC 
San Diego track and field 
team - freshman Claudia 
Cox and seniors Savanna Forry 
and Chrissy Carr - competed 
in the NCAA Championships 
this past weekend in Bradenton, 
Florida. 
Cox, one of only four 
freshman in the race, competed 
in the 400-meter hurdles on 
Friday where she finished in 
20th place out of 22 competitors. She crossed the finish line in 
1:03.76. Though she did not 
place highly, Head Coach Darcy 
Ahner is confident in her future.
“Claudia finished in 20th 
place, which matched her 
ranking coming into the 
meet, ” Ahner told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “While 
she was looking for more, it’s 
a phenomenal accomplishment 
to qualify and compete as a 
freshman. I have no doubt she will be ready to come back next 
year and get on the podium. ”
The next day, Forry competed 
in the high jump, finishing 
in 19th. Forry only managed 
to clear the initial 5’3 3/4" 
height. This was Forry’s third 
time competing in the NCAA 
Championships in the high jump. 
The previous two years, she 
earned All-American accolades. 
Despite a disappointing finish 
to her track and field career as a Triton, Ahner had nothing but 
good things to say about Forry’s 
experience.
“Savanna did not have the 
success at nationals she was 
looking for,” Ahner told the 
Athletics Department, “but has 
had an amazing four-year run. 
She has been an exemplary team 
leader and captain that has been 
nothing short of spectacular. ” 
Apparently the best 
competition for the Tritons was saved for last, as Carr had a 
spectacular finish in her final 
meet. Carr earned All-American 
status for her sixth-place finish 
in the pole vault, clearing 12’10 
3/4". 
This meet concluded the 
Tritons’ track and field season. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 30, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After claiming the NCAA West 
Region Championship last weekend 
with a perfect 4–0 record, the UC 
San Diego baseball team faced off  
against East Region champion, No.16 
St. Thomas Aquinas College, in the 
opener of the NCAA Division II 
Championship. The Sunday afternoon 
matchup had plenty of late drama as 
the two clubs went into extra innings, 
unfortunately ending in a 5–6 Triton 
loss.  
With the loss, the Tritons fall out of 
the winner’s bracket and will now face 
elimination on Tuesday versus No.14 
Quincy.
Despite their relatively quiet first 
two innings, the Tritons got themselves 
on the board in the third, courtesy of 
senior outfielder Jack Larsen two-run 
homer who gave the Tritons an early 
2–0 lead. However, the story of the 
matchup would be the response of 
the opponents after falling behind. In 
the bottom of the third with two outs 
already, the Tritons could could not get 
the final out before St. Thomas Aquinas 
put three on the scoreboard to get their 
first lead of the game, 3–2. With two on 
base St. Thomas Aquinas hit the ball 
out of the park for a three-run homer.  
At the top of the third, redshirt 
freshman catcher Nick Kitzmann 
earned a walk. Following a wild pitch, 
Kitzmann advanced to second base. 
With two outs in the inning, Larsen 
was once again at bat and made the 
difference one more time with a RBI 
single to tie up the ball game at 3–3.  The ball game would stay at 3–3 
apiece past the ninth inning and 
into extra innings. Make no mistake 
about it, the Tritons had their chance 
to possibly take the win in the ninth 
and tenth inning with a man on third 
base in both innings, but they did not 
make the most of the opportunity. 
That is, until the twelfth inning, 
when with two outs gone the Tritons 
earned themselves a two-run inning. 
Following a Larsen double, the right 
fielder was able to make it home after 
a single to right-center field from 
Brandon Shirley. Tyler Durna then 
got into the act and hit a single to right 
in order to keep the rally going. With 
Durna’s hit, Shirley advanced to third 
and eventually scored off of an Alex 
Eliopulos single to make the score, 5–3 
to go into the bottom of the twelfth. 
Surely, at this point it looked as if 
UCSD had done enough to earn the 
win, but just as St. Thomas Equinas 
responded earlier in the game, it would 
do the same in the twelfth.  
St. Thomas Equinas crawled back 
into the game via an extraordinary 
five walks in the inning, including the 
winning run of the match. Through 
five walks and an error, St. Thomas 
racked up three runs and ultimately, 
won the game in quite the fashion.  
The Tritons will have to brush off 
a tough defeat and focus on their win 
or go home to matchup on Tuesday 
against Quincy. The ball game is set to 
start at 1 p.m.Tritons Drops First NCAA Championship Match, 6-5
UC San Diego, now 40-18, will face No. 14 Quincy in an elimination game on Tuesday, May 30. BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
Senior Staff writer
Baseball
PHOTO COURTESY OF HENRY CHEN
Daniel Hernandez   DAH043@ucsd,eduROSINA GARCIA   rmg008@ucsd,edu
Track &  Field
UCSD 
Invades 
Florida
Triton Athletes Cox, 
Forry and Carr all 
competed in the NCAA 
Championships this 
past weekend.
by Rosina Garcia // Co-Editor in chiefPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTEVS Quincy (NCAA Championships)
AT IRA National Championships
AT IRA National Championships
AT IRA National Championships5/30
6/2
6/3
6/4UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES11 AM 
All Day
All Day 
All DayBaseball
M Rowing
M Rowing 
M Rowing