VOLUME 50, ISSUE 29   MONDA Y , MARCH 6, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
The UC Board of Regents unanimously appointed 
Gary May as the new chancellor of UC Davis on Feb. 
23 at a meeting held at UCLA. May will begin his new 
role in August, replacing Ralph Hexter, who is currently 
serving as interim chancellor. 
Hexter temporarily led the university after former 
chancellor Linda Katehi resigned last August following 
an investigation into various university policies, 
including conflict-of-interest violations and misuse of 
student fees. 
May currently serves as the dean of the College of 
Engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology, but 
will be returning to the UC system where he earned his 
master’s and doctorate in Electrical Engineering and 
Computer Science at UC Berkeley in 1987 and 1991, 
respectively. 
In a UC Office of the President press release, May 
expressed his delight over the appointment. 
“I am honored that the [UC] president and the 
regents have entrusted me with the responsibility of leading UC Davis, ” May said. “I am confident that, with 
the cooperation of the entire Davis community, we can 
accomplish even more and make UC Davis one of those 
very few institutions that have become household names 
in our nation. Go Ags!”  
UC President Janet Napolitano announced May as 
her candidate for chancellor on Feb. 21, two days before 
the vote. She believes his experience in the STEM fields 
makes him a good fit for chancellor.
“Dr. May is absolutely committed to building strong 
and open relationships with students, faculty and staff, 
to increasing UC Davis’s already impressive prowess in 
STEM fields, agriculture, social sciences and the arts and 
humanities and deepening the ties between UC Davis 
and the larger Davis and Sacramento communities, ” she 
said in the UCOP statement. 
Hexter also expressed his support of chancellor May 
in an email to the UC Davis community. 
“I could not be more proud of how we have come 
together as a community after a challenging spring and 
summer, ” Hexter wrote in the email. “We have turned an 
important corner, and I am confident that Chancellor-UCSD 
Freshman Dies 
in Car AccidentUCSD
Her best friend said Mabel 
Bahena always wore a smile and 
never had a negative attitude.
Mabel Bahena, a 19-year-old 
student at UC San Diego, was killed in 
a car accident on Friday, Feb. 17 after 
a gust of wind pushed driver Y olanda 
Lozano’s vehicle into a truck parked 
on the right shoulder of I-15 during a 
rainstorm.
Bahena was a freshman studying 
engineering.
Jose Bahena, Mabel’s brother, 
created a GoFundMe page after the 
accident to cover the family’s funeral 
costs where both strangers and 
acquaintances have raised $9,020 in 
nine days and left thoughtful messages 
and remembrances of Mabel. 
“May she rest in peace, from one 
UCSD student to another, ” Austin 
Zhang wrote with his donation. “I am 
deeply sorry for your family’s loss. ”
Those who were close to Bahena 
remember her as a goofy young woman 
who always wore a smile. Lozano, who 
was Bahena’s best friend since sixth 
grade and neighbor, told the UCSD 
Guardian what it was like to know her. 
“Throughout the eight years of 
friendship there was never a moment 
in which Mabel had a negative attitude, ” 
Lozano said. “She always had a smile 
on her face. I absolutely cherished her. ”
After meeting in middle school, 
Bahena and Lozano were attached at 
the hip and were rarely seen without 
each other unless they were with their 
boyfriends. Bahena and Lozano even 
got jobs together at Target to minimize 
their time apart. The best friends’ 
families soon became close themselves, 
and Lozano said the support she has 
received from Bahena’s parents has 
helped her come to grips with the 
accident. 
“Mabel and I always thought as 
the future as ‘our’ future, ” Lozano said. 
“We’ve always included each other in 
our plans. She wanted to be a typical 
suburban mom with me as a neighbor 
so our kids could play with each other. ”
Fifth year Thurgood Marshall 
College student Marlee Kongthong, 
who worked with Bahena and Lozano 
at Target, remembered Mabel, as all 
who knew her did, with a wide smile 
plastered across her face. 
“Mabel was a sweet, goofy gal, ” 
Kongthong told the Guardian. “She 
had the biggest, brightest smile I’ve 
ever seen. Her hair was as wild as 
her. She was silly and cracked jokes 
often. The room always warmed up 
when she was present. She giggled 
often and couldn’t ever keep a straight 
face because she always had a big ol’ 
smile on. ”
Kongthong added that while 
talking to other employees at Target 
about Bahena, “each person mentioned 
her smile. ” 
Bahena’s funeral service will be 
held at 1 p.m. tomorrow at Greenwood 
Mortuary Garden Chapel. She is 
survived by her parents, step parents, 
four sisters and two brothers. UCSD Physicist Contributes to Trappist-1 Discovery
UC San Diego’s Adam 
Burgasser, an associate 
professor in the physics 
department, contributed to 
the discovery of seven planets 
which could possibly harbor 
extraterrestrial life. The planets 
are surrounding the star known 
as Trappist-1, named after 
the Transiting Planets and 
Planetesimals Small Telescope. 
The discovery was announced 
on Feb. 22 at a press conference 
held at NASA ’s headquarters in 
Washington D.C.
The study, which commenced 
four years ago, is housed at the 
University of Liege in Belgium 
and is composed of over three 
dozen scientists based all over 
the world. 
Joining the team in 2013, 
Burgasser and his colleagues 
started studying Trappist-1 in 
2014, when they speculated that 
there were only three planets surrounding the star.
“Our survey looking at 
several dozen low-mass stars 
started about four years ago, ” 
Burgasser told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I joined the team in 
2013. Our specific study of this 
star, Trappist-1, started in 2014, 
and we actually had an earlier 
planet discovery paper last May 
when we thought there were 
only three planets. The results 
we reported last week are based 
on work we’ve been doing over 
the last 18 months. ” 
Trappist-1 is known as an 
ultra-cool dwarf star, a common 
type of star in the galaxy. 
Further examination of these 
types of stars began back in the 
1990s, but scientists specifically 
examined Trappist-1 because 
of it had qualities suitable for 
research.
“The star was first discovered 
in the early 1990s with the less poetic name 2MASS J23062928-
0502285” Burgasser said. “It 
seemed to be a normal low-
temperature, low-mass star that 
is relatively nearby. These stars 
are literally a dime a dozen. They 
are very common in the galaxy. 
It was included in our survey 
because it was the right type of 
star — cool and red — and close 
enough to get good data. ”
Three of the planets found 
surrounding Trappist-1 were 
located in what scientists call the 
habitable region, meaning that 
conditions on the planet may be 
suitable for hosting life. 
“‘Habitable’ means that the 
surface conditions are suitable 
for life, and for astronomers this 
generally means hav[ing] liquid 
water, ” Burgasser said. “Liquid 
water is necessary for all life 
forms on Earth, and Earth is the 
only planet in the solar system 
that has both liquid water and B y Armonie Mendez  CONTRIBUTING WRITERCAMPUS
Gary May, who was chosen for his STEM background, will replace Ralph Hexter in August.See NASA , page 3
UC SYSTEM
BY  P r o m i t a  N a n dy
senior staff writer
BY  M a t t h e w  Z a m u d i o
news editor
Georgia Tech Dean Appointed UC Davis Chancellor
Students pose for a picture at Bear Garden on Friday. Photo by Francesca Hummler// UCSD Guardian
See CHANCELLOR , page 3BEAR GARDEN
MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.eduPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERECALIFORNIA 
ROAD TRIP
THERE’S STILL TWO SOLID, 
PAINFUL WEEKS UNTIL THE 
BLISSFUL FREEDOM THAT IS 
SPRING BREAK. BUT UNTIL THAT 
SWEET WEEK COMES, AND YOU’RE 
IN NEED OF A MENTAL VACATION 
IN THESE TRYING TIMES, READ 
UP ON THESE PLACES TO GET 
AWAY FROM IT ALL—OR GET 
INSPIRATION FOR YOUR OWN 
SPRING BREAK ADVENTURES!—IF 
ONLY FOR A BIT.
SAFETY  VERSUS  CONSERV ANCY
shark  a tt ack s : Finding  solutions
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
 “ WHILE  WE RIGHTFULLY  FEAR THE 
POSSIBILITY  OF A NATIONAL  MUSLIM  
REGISTRY  USED TO STRIP AMERICANS  
OF CIVIL RIGHTS , WE SEEM UNFAZED  
BY THE PROSPECT  OF ONE FOR 
AMERICANS  WITH DISABILITIES , EVEN 
WHEN  SUCH A DANGEROUS  PROJECT  
HAS PLENTY  OF PRECEDENT .” 
- Thomas Finn
ON GUN CONTROL      
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
A.S. COLUMN  .................. 2
SHARK CULLS...................4
A&E............................... 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 15lifestyle,  P AGE 8
CHINESE INTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS ERUPTED IN 
OUTRAGE WHEN THE DALAI 
LAMA WAS ANNOUNCED AS 
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER. 
WHY IS THIS SUCH A 
CONTENTIOUS ISSUE? THE 
GUARDIAN SAT DOWN WITH 
TWO CHINESE INTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS TO LEARN THEIR 
PERSPECTIVES ON THE ISSUE
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
TRACK AND FIELD
UCSd  hosts  all-uc  challenge
sports,  P age  16THE   DALAI   LAMA:   WHA T   
CHINESE   STUDENTS   
THINK
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 3/13/17YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.org
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. You can find the link in the description.Take our Entertainment 
Survey to be entered for 
the chance to win a $10 
Starbucks gift card.
studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16Hello friends! Clocking in at 
35 minutes, A.S. Council had its 
shortest meeting of the quarter this 
week! The past few weeks have in general had short meetings. 
There is a Memorandum of 
Understanding being drafted 
between A.S. Council and Triton 
Food Pantry regarding A.S. Council 
allocation of money to the Triton 
Food Pantry. The MOU will cover 
details such as the Triton Food Pantry reporting its finances 
directly to A.S. Council. Details 
forthcoming. 
Third year Marshall Senator 
Kim Custodio has been working 
on a clothing drive with the office 
of local affairs. It will take place 
on March 10, 2017 in front of the Marshall administration building. 
Registration for elections is 
now open online and will close on 
Thursday March 9, 2017.A.S. is organizing a clothing drive which will take place on March 10A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.edu
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into WordsAdvertise your event, your product!Advertise yourself withFollow us @
on  Inst agramucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Marcus and I are done.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
VOTE ON TRITONLINK
APRIL 10-14
apply at as.ucsd.edu/elections
applications due march 9, 12pmdesignate May will have an extraordinary 
impact on this great institution. ”
Knarik Yegiazaryan, a sophomore at UC 
Davis, is optimistic about May’s potential 
as the new chancellor. 
“I’m excited to see what sort of changes 
May will bring to the campus. It seems as 
though he’s mindful of need for a more 
diverse environment on campus, but I 
truly feel as though there’s only so much 
one can do, ” Yegiazaryan told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I can’t really make any sort of 
real judgements right now since he hasn’t 
been able to do anything for the campus 
yet, but considering all the things he’s done 
to make Georgia Tech such an astounding 
university, I am under the impression he’ll 
do the same for our campus. ” 
At Georgia Tech, May created the 
Summer Undergraduate Research in Engineering/Science program where 
undergraduates can research and 
hopefully become more interested in going 
to graduate school. He also worked to 
establish the Facilitating Academic Careers 
in Engineering and Science and University 
Center of Exemplary Mentoring programs, 
intending to increase the number of 
underrepresented doctorate recipients 
from Georgia Tech, for which he received 
the Presidential Award for Excellence in 
Science, Mathematics and Engineering 
Mentoring from former President Obama 
in 2015.
The Regents also approved May’s 
compensation on Feb. 23, which includes 
a base salary of $420,000 and an endowed 
faculty chair that pays $75,000 in privately 
donated funds.▶ CHANCELLOR,  from page 1 Regents Approved a Base Salary of  $420,000 for May
promit a nand y  pnandy@ucsd.edulife, as far as we know, so we 
tie these conditions together. 
We know these planets have 
the potential for liquid water 
because they are at just the right 
distance from their star for the 
planet surface temperatures to 
be in the range of liquid water (0 
degrees Celsius to 100 degrees 
Celsius). ” 
While the planets present 
factors leading scientists to 
believe that they do contain 
liquid water, Burgasser explained 
that this does not guarantee its 
presence. 
“There are lots of other 
factors that are important: 
whether the planet has an 
atmosphere (otherwise the water would evaporate to space), 
whether there are other sources 
of heating such as greenhouse 
effect or volcanism, whether 
there is enough oxygen and 
hydrogen present to have water, 
etc. All of these are outstanding 
questions that we will be 
investigating in the next few 
years, ” Burgasser said.
The potential for these 
planets to contain liquid water 
creates the possibility of finding 
extraterrestrial life. 
“Determining whether water 
is actually present on these 
planets is one step toward that 
goal, ” Burgasser said. “But, I am 
optimistic because we know life 
on Earth started ‘quickly, ’ almost 
as soon as the surface was cool 
enough to support life (about 
four billion years ago). Those life forms were simple bacteria and 
algae and dominated the planet 
for almost all of Earth’s history 
before plants and animals came 
along, so it is the most likely 
kind the of life we would expect 
to find. Life may be one of these 
processes that emerges quickly 
as long as the conditions are 
suitable. ” 
Burgasser explained that 
the next step in the study is to 
continue measuring the planets’ 
transits, masses, atmospheres 
and starlight, as well as to 
determine the chemical 
composition of the planets to 
be able to conclude if they are 
indeed suitable for hosting life. 
Armonie Mendez  aemendez@ucsd.edu▶ NASA,  from page 1 Burgasser: Presence of  Water Does Not Guarantee Life on Planets
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Twenty  people attacked, eight 
fatal: these are the stats for 
unprovoked shark attacks 
since 2011 on Reunion Island, a small 
island and region of France located 
off the southeast coast of Africa. The 
ocean around this island has always 
been known to have a notoriously 
high shark population, but since the 
recent death of Alexandre Naussac, a 
26-year-old bodyboarder, professional 
surfers and Reunion Island locals have 
ignited a global debate on whether or 
not actions need to be taken regarding 
the shark population on the island, 
and, more largely, the importance of 
prioritizing ocean and marine life 
conservancy.
The debate gained new levels of 
publicity when professional surfer and 
11-time World Surf League Champion 
Kelly Slater called for a “serious cull on 
Reunion” in an Instagram post tributed 
to Naussac. A cull would entail the 
systematic capture and killing of sharks 
in the vicinity of swimming beaches 
by local governments. Although Slater 
recently released a new statement 
clarifying that his assertion was an emotional reaction to Naussac’s death 
and that he does not believe a cull is 
the proper solution, his statement still 
came as somewhat of a shock to the 
surfing community. Slater is not only 
an advocate for ocean conservancy, but 
a founder of Outerknown, a company 
that donates all profits from its “It’ s 
Not OK” shirts to ocean conservancy 
and recently released a video of Slater 
arguing the importance of protecting 
the ocean and its marine life. Jeremy 
Flores, another professional surfer who 
resides on Reunion Island, made similar 
claims for the need to tackle the shark 
population on the island. Y et, to some 
extent, the problem is already being 
tackled. According to International Business Times, French officials 
already kill 100 sharks annually on the 
island, prompting conservationists to 
fear that killing more will only further 
imbalance the ecosystem.
In fact, according to the Australian 
Marine Conservation Society, culling 
has even been scientifically proven 
to not work. U.S. surfer Mike Coots, 
although having lost a leg in a shark 
attack, has himself argued that “culling 
a species is fundamentally wrong” and 
that “it can actually make the situation 
worse. ” Shark nets and traps not 
only endanger other species, but also 
victimize shark species that may not 
be the target of the nets. These species 
are typically already endangered, such as in Queensland, Australia, where 97 
percent of sharks caught since 2001 
by drum lines (a baited hook) were 
at conservation risk and 89 percent 
were caught in regions where no 
human fatalities had occurred by shark 
attacks. According to Surfer, miles of 
nets have been put in place to keep 
sharks at bay in particularly dangerous 
surf spots, like Lighthouse Beach in 
Australia and beaches like those in 
Queensland. This precaution, however, 
has resulted in thousands of deaths 
to sharks since they were installed, 
although dramatically reducing the 
number of shark attacks in the region. 
It’s difficult to claim that our sports 
and leisure are more important than protecting a diminishing species, 
and yet compromises to the problem 
seem to be scarce. Alternatives such as 
aerial and coastal surveillance, shark 
barriers and sonar trials have become 
more popular methods of handling 
high shark populations, but some 
alternatives such as “smart drum lines, ” 
which alert authorities when marine 
life has been caught and therefore 
can allow time for the animals to 
be freed, continue to capture and 
threaten unintended species. One 
solution, however, may be in sight — 
the Sea Shepherd, a nonprofit marine 
conservation organization, has begun 
working with Slater to advocate for a 
marine reserve that will promote the 
return of reef sharks, which deter the 
bull sharks that have been behind the 
recent attacks.
When it comes down to it, we 
have to ask ourselves: Should we be 
more concerned about our safety 
and our ability to be in the ocean, 
or about ocean conservancy? Humans 
are estimated to kill over 100 million 
“CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See CONSERVANCY , page 5
Gun control remains a standard 
part of just about any liberal platform 
in this country, while, for the most 
part, we relegate stances against gun 
control to conservatives. However, 
many limitations on gun rights stem 
from rhetoric that falsely portrays 
anyone with a mental disability as 
too dangerous to handle firearms, 
a precedent also set long ago against 
racial minorities. In aligning with 
the mainstream stance, many liberals 
neglect to analyze the ableism and racism 
inherent in many gun control measures, 
both proposed and implemented.
Background checks typically appear 
as “common sense” requirements in 
gun control plans, but they rely on the 
assumption that this country has a fair 
criminal justice system and a working 
understanding of mental health. Aside 
from criminal background, these checks 
usually involve psychiatric records.
Unfortunately, mental illness 
has filled a boogeyman role in gun 
control rhetoric on both sides, where proponents and opponents alike can 
blame shootings, violence, and crime 
on mentally ill people with firearms. In 
reality, the U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services reports that one 
in five Americans have experienced a 
mental health issue, and people with 
serious mental illness are actually less 
likely to commit violence than anyone 
else but are 10 times more likely to 
be victims of violence. With debates 
doubling down on undue blame on 
people with mental disabilities or 
illnesses, gun control measures aimed 
at blocking their civil rights become 
more extreme and short-sighted.
In December 2016, Obama created 
a rule that would use the Social Security 
Administration’s list of Americans 
who have a financial representative 
due to a mental disability, and add 
these names to the National Instant 
Criminal Background Check System 
to bar them from purchasing firearms. 
It simply does not follow that mental 
disabilities make someone dangerous, and conditions like dyscalculia or 
other learning disabilities that require 
assistance in dealing with finances have 
no bearing on firearm competence 
or safety. Activists from the Autistic 
Self-Advocacy Network have spoken 
out against policies like this which 
unfairly condemn people who are 
disproportionately victims of violence 
rather than perpetrators.
Many of today’s gun control laws 
have their roots in the late 1960s, 
where they were passed as a direct 
response to the Civil Rights Movement. 
Republican California Governor 
Ronald Reagan passed the Mulford Act 
in 1967, banning open-carry of loaded 
weapons just two months after the 
Black Panthers led a demonstration in 
Sacramento encouraging black people 
to arm themselves against racism. 
The next year, the federal government 
passed the Gun Control Act of 1968 
restricting gun sales and requiring 
licenses and was even supported by the 
National Rifle Association at the time, with many politicians openly referring 
to black gun owners as an impetus for 
tighter regulation.
Enforcement of gun control laws 
also disproportionately tends to target 
minorities. For example, according to 
research by Jeffrey Fagan at Columbia 
University Law School, 90 percent of 
the hundreds of thousands of New 
Y orkers stopped and frisked in 2012 
were black or Latino, even though 
it was more likely to find guns on 
white people. Based on research 
from the Vera Institute of Justice, 
this double standard also applies to 
criminalization of racial minorities for 
drug crimes, which, alongside over-
representative conviction, recidivism 
and incarceration rates, suggests that 
America’s criminal justice system 
stacks its W ar on Drugs against racial 
minorities every step of the way. 
When we decide who can own guns 
based on criminal records, but convict 
and imprison certain racial groups 
disproportionate to others, we disarm and disenfranchise American citizens 
using the same systemic biases. 
While we rightfully fear the 
possibility of a national Muslim registry 
used to strip Americans of civil rights, 
we seem unfazed by the prospect of 
one for Americans with disabilities, 
even when such a dangerous project 
has plenty of precedent. Luckily, the 
rule was overturned last month, but 
ableist rhetoric still runs rampant in 
the national discourse on gun control. 
Alongside racial injustice in America’s 
implementation of gun control, both 
historically and today, it seems like 
politicians, the media and the public 
all seem too willing to sweep the well-
being of disabled Americans under 
the rug for the sake of a preordained 
agenda, forgetting to critically 
reexamine whether doing so reinforces 
stigma and betraying the people whose 
rights are actually most at risk.Obama-Era Gun Control Legislation Fuels Misconception of  
People with Disabilities and Disorders as Threats
Increased frequencies of shark attacks off Reunion Island have 
prompted a debate on the balance between promoting safety and 
prioritizing ocean conservancy. Does the safety benefit of instating culls 
outweigh the shark death tolls?
Shark S in the Water : 
Risk a Bite oR Find 
a new site? BY EMILY COLLINS // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
It’s important to remember that every time we 
step in the water, we are putting ourselves at the 
will of  the ocean and all of  the life it contains. “
““
THOMAS FINN     TFIINN@UCSD.EDUBY THOMAS FINN // SENIOR STAFF WRITEROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/Home
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
/tritonfoodpantrysharks every year — that’s 11,417 sharks 
every hour, by conservative measures. 
Ye t ,  a c c ord i n g  t o  s t at i s t i c s  s p an n i n g  
the past decade, only an average of six 
people are killed by shark attacks each 
year. Y ou’re more likely to be killed 
by being crushed by a falling vending 
machine than being attacked by a shark 
— seriously, vending machines kill 10 
to 13 people a year. While shark attack 
rates have certainly been increasing 
in recent years, we have to realize that 
human impact on climate change and 
subsequent rising sea temperatures 
also bring larger congregations of 
sharks in coastal regions where before 
their numbers remained low. As these 
changes occur, it may be necessary to 
scope out new surf and swim spots or 
follow extra precautionary measures 
to prevent an encounter with a shark.
This relevance of ocean 
conservancy and determining whether to protect humans’ rights or animals’ 
remains vividly active in our own 
local community as well. Consider 
the sea lions of La Jolla Cove, whose 
presence has long sparked debate over 
whether they should be removed or 
not. Statements from the La Jolla Cove 
Swim Club have argued that they 
should be dispersed from the area or 
at least prevented from accessing the 
beach and stairs where people often 
go. Moreover, the sea lions cause ocean 
contamination from the large amount 
of fecal matter they emit. People have 
been attacked by the sea lions and 
swimmers have gotten sick from the 
high level of bacteria in the water 
due to their presence. Y et others argue 
that the Cove is the sea lions’ natural 
breeding ground, and they have more 
of a right to live there than humans 
do to go to the area. The debate 
brings light to a complex issue of how 
much ocean conservancy should be 
prioritized and how far humans should go to defend their rights to be in certain 
coastal territories and waters. As with 
the sharks, is it time for the animals 
to relocate or for the humans to find a 
new place to relax at the beach?
Despite our love of the water and 
our passion for catching the deepest 
barrels we can possibly find, it’s 
important to remember that every 
time we step in the water, we are 
putting ourselves at the will of the 
ocean and all of the life it contains. 
For some, the chance of losing a limb 
by a shark might be worth catching 
a perfect wave — for others, the risk 
means giving up the sport or finding a 
new place to surf. Regardless, it seems 
to be our duty to do our best to protect 
marine life and not further endanger a 
species already at risk. Keep in mind: 
We already kill far more of them than 
they ever have and will kill of us.
EMIL Y COLLINS   ECOLLINS@UCSD.EDU▶ CONSERVANCY , from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
The warm scent of coffee wafted out 
of Price Center’s Starbucks as I sat 
outside in the breezy air, waiting 
for Yuki Huang, a second year at Revelle 
College. While we bantered, the name of her 
home province in China, Fujian, came up and, 
remarking at my pronunciation, she asked if I 
could speak Mandarin. 
I could, because I am Han Chinese. But as 
an American-born Chinese, I also lacked the 
cultural knowledge of my country’s history 
to adequately explain Chinese international 
students’ recent outrage over the 14th Dalai 
Lama speaking at this year’s commencement. 
Daughter of a doctor and civil servant of the 
Chinese government, Huang attempted to 
explain her perspective to me.
“Almost every international student 
dislikes [the Dalai Lama],” she started off, 
“because he is to China what Edward Snowden 
is to America. We all regard him as a traitor.”
I winced, telling her Edward Snowden was 
a personal hero of mine. Without missing a 
beat, she clarified to me, “Maybe the Western 
media portrays him as a spiritual leader who 
loves peace, but in reality he is definitely 
involved in all types of politics. He wants to 
be a dictator in Tibet; he doesn’t really want 
to liberate Tibet but wants to control Tibet 
through violence.”
Before I even opened my mouth to say 
anything about Chinese media, she stopped 
me. “I’m not brainwashed by propaganda or 
anything,” she said to me, giggling. “I don’t 
watch news that often.”
Huang tried to give me a quick history 
lesson, explaining that Tibet was historically 
part of China. According to her claims, Tibet 
under the Dalai Lama had a feudalist system 
that perpetuated slavery and serfdom, with 
a small population in control. The Tibetan 
government asserted that the serfs’ status 
was a result of its misdeeds in a past life, 
preventing them from protesting their living 
conditions. A war broke out in 1950 between 
the People’s Liberation Army of China and 
Tibet; the Dalai Lama, who supposedly 
wanted to control Tibet through violence 
and was backed by the CIA with weapons, 
escaped to India. Now, while China attempts 
to modernize Tibet by sending in workers and 
eradicating an outdated culture that supports 
slavery, the Dalai Lama continues to spread 
propaganda to take control of an independent 
Tibet.
Facts related to Tibet and China are murky, 
but the gist of what Huang told me appeared 
to be true, or at the very least, truer than 
many versions of history I’ve heard. Peter 
Hessler from the Atlantic, who visited Tibet 
in the 1990s, notes that while Tibet’s claims for independence might be “more compelling 
than the Chinese version,” China probably 
has a “stronger historical claim to Tibet than 
the U.S. does to much of the American West.” 
Reports of a serfdom in Tibet are also concerns 
which, while perhaps exaggerated, may not 
be completely invalid either: While Tibetan 
scholars are in agreement that there was no 
historical serfdom, the Chinese assert that 
“95 percent of the population were hereditary 
serfs and slaves owned by monasteries and 
nobles.” Because tensions between the U.S. 
and communist regimes were running high 
in the 1950s, the CIA did indeed support the 
Dalai Lama with propaganda distribution, 
intelligence and political espionage in the 
1950s to counter the influence of China in 
Tibet.
As an English teacher at the Linzhi No. 
2 High School two years ago, Huang had 
personal experience living in Tibet. She was 
one of many teachers from various provinces 
sent to Tibet along with others who helped 
build the region’s infrastructure. Defensively, 
Huang told me that Tibetans enjoy far more 
rights than other Chinese citizens and their 
capital city is developing even faster than her 
own home province, thanks to support from 
the Chinese government.
“They can stick with their marriage culture 
and marry more than one person. The United 
States doesn’t allow Mormons to do that, but 
we allow Tibetans to.”
Huang said most of the Tibetans she 
interacted with seem to be happy with their 
situation. “When I say I think most Tibetans 
don’t want to be independent, I mean the 
Tibetans who live in Tibet, not the Tibetans 
who live in India,” she clarified. “I have talked 
to some Tibetans in Tibet, and they regard him 
as a fraud and a dictator rather than a religious 
leader.”
For Huang, the invitation of the Dalai Lama 
to commencement is an insult. Passionately, 
and despite the fact that she is not graduating, 
she reminded me that commencement is a 
time of celebration.
“International students have to 
celebrate their graduation, and they 
will invite their parents. They will 
fly all the way from China to the 
U.S., and when they are so happy, 
they’ll see this guy who tries to 
split their country giving a 
speech here.”
Some students, 
especially online, 
have attempted to 
silence Chinese 
international  
students by telling them they have no place to complain 
about commencements speakers in a school 
where they are “guests.”
“This is discrimination,” Huang said 
angrily. “Just because we’re foreigners, we’re 
not treated as part of the UC community. Our 
voices deserve to be heard.”
...
The next week at the same Starbucks, I 
talked to Yuxiao Fang. Since it was a drizzly 
day, we sat inside. Fang, a junior cognitive 
science major from Xian, China, was quieter 
than Huang but talked rapidly. Like Huang, 
he started off with an analogy about the Dalai 
Lama splitting his home country.
“You don’t want anyone to split [your 
country] in any way, just as you wouldn’t 
want Texas to be an independent country from 
now on.”
I grimaced at the analogy, personally 
knowing plenty of people at UC San Diego 
who sure wouldn’t mind. Sitting up, I ask 
him what he thinks when people suggest 
the Dalai Lama inciting violence is Chinese 
propaganda.
“You say it’s Chinese propaganda, but it 
might be international propaganda against 
China,” he said nonchalantly. “Every coin 
has two sides. Check both when you make a 
decision.”
As a junior, Fang, like Huang, won’t 
actually be attending commencement, 
and he knows that it is unlikely that 
UCSD will uninvite the Dalai Lama as 
speaker, citing damage to our school’s 
What Chinese International 
Students Think of the 
Dalai Lama
By Timothy Deng // Contributing WriterChinese international students seem to despise the 
Dalai Lama. But why? The Guardian investigates.
SeeDALAI LAMA , page 7
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
When then-political science graduate 
student Daniel Hallin set out to write his 
final dissertation on public opinion and the 
Vietnam War, he stumbled upon the budding field that 
excited and thrilled him. Hallin’s time spent sifting 
through archived newspapers led him away from 
political science and into the realm of communication, 
where he is now a major scholar of journalism and 
media studies whose work is recognized around the 
world.
Hallin, UC San Diego’s longest standing 
communication professor, began his career in 
scholarship as an undergraduate and then graduate 
student of UC Berkeley’s political science department.
“I was a high school student in the time of the 
Vietnam War and post-civil rights movements,” 
Hallin told the UCSD Guardian, “so I was really 
interested in politics.”
Although he grew up in the Bay Area and attended 
UC Berkeley, Hallin shrugs off the idea that such 
highly politicized environments influenced him to go 
into political scholarship.
“I wasn’t very practical. I didn’t think about, ‘OK, 
this is a profession and this is how I will move toward 
that profession.’ I just wanted to keep studying the 
things I was studying,” he said.
In graduate school, Hallin was particularly 
fascinated by political consciousness — the study 
of how people form their opinions on politics and 
the outside factors that affect those perceptions. He 
engaged in public opinion research, mainly surveys, 
in order to determine how people perceived their 
relationship to politics.
Hallin chose to write his final dissertation on 
public opinion of the Vietnam War because, even 
though it had been a major event during his childhood, he was too young to fully understand 
its implications for American society. 
Here, however, Hallin hit a wall. As it 
was a past event, he couldn’t conduct 
surveys gauging public opinion of the 
war, and surveys taken in the 1960s 
were scarce. Hallin’s solution to his 
research debacle was to, instead, turn 
to newspaper articles written during the 
war, analyzing them as both an archive 
of the time period as well as a look into 
the mindset of newspapers’ readers and 
writers.
“I finally decided I should study 
media because that’s how people got 
information about [the war],” Hallin 
recounts. “That was really unusual in 
political science at the time. Nobody 
studied media in those days in political 
science.”
Hallin’s research, which blended 
political analysis with communications, 
marked the beginning of the graduate 
student’s shift toward communication 
studies. His final dissertation, which 
explored the connection between media and the 
Vietnam War, was extremely unique for his field — 
perhaps too unique for political science academia.
“Looking back on it, it wouldn't have been the 
most practical choice since nobody studied media in 
political science,” Hallin says, chuckling. “I was just 
really lucky that there was this strange job opening 
here at UCSD that was a joint appointment between 
the communication program — in those days it was 
not a department, only a program — and the political 
science department.”
Ultimately, what Hallin considers a series of 
impractical decisions — entering into scholarship 
and then studying an extremely niche, practically 
nonexistent field — in fact made him stand out 
as a leader of critical communication studies, and 
his work appealed directly to UCSD’s burgeoning 
communication program.
From the moment he was introduced to the program 
in 1980, Hallin dove into the field of communication 
more intensively than ever before. His alma mater did 
not offer a communication program at the time, so the 
young professor was excited to embark upon a new 
frontier in academia, forging a path for himself as he 
went. Soon, others followed.
“I started studying something peculiar, but then 
lots of other people discovered the importance of 
that and so a whole field of political communication 
developed [and] then I fit right into that,” he said.
Together Hallin and other joint professors of 
the communication program who have since retired 
had the opportunity to build the curriculum from 
the ground up. What set them apart from other 
communication departments of the time was their 
intense focus on critical analysis as opposed to production and communications job training. 
“In those days, a lot of communication departments 
developed as kind of a vocational training rather than 
as academic departments,” Hallin said. “They were 
connected to a journalism school or radio, television, 
film. They taught public relations and things like that. 
Because we came out of a time of social movements, 
we didn’t want to train people to become cogs in the 
industry.”
Instead of practice, Hallin and the other department 
founders honed their identity around critical analysis 
and communication theory. Led by trailblazers such 
as Hallin, the department’s critical theory-based 
approach to the field has been noticed around the 
country.
“I had Hallin as a teacher and recognized his name 
from one of his articles that was actually assigned to 
me while I was studying abroad in London,” recalls 
Muir College senior and communication major Allie 
Glick. “Not only was the article helpful for my class 
abroad, it was also very cool to have personally had 
this author as a professor.”
One of Hallin’s most popular works is a book 
published in 2004 and co-authored with Italian scholar 
Paolo Mancini titled “Comparing Media Systems: 
Three Models of Media and Politics.” The book 
reflects Hallin’s unique position as a communication 
professor with formal training in political science. 
He applies strategies of analysis used in comparative 
politics to the field of media studies, unpacking 
various systems of European media in a way that is so 
successful that the book has been translated into 10 
different languages.
When Hallin isn’t publishing ground-breaking 
articles or teaching (COMM 109 in the fall and 
COMM 104G in the spring), he is reading.
“I read The New York Times every day, which 
I think is still the best journalism in the U.S. I also 
listen to NPR a lot,” Hallin said. “Aside from those 
two, I sample around a lot, partly because this is what 
I do. It varies a lot from day to day depending on how 
busy I am, but often it’s like an hour or two depending 
on what’s going on.”
Despite Hallin’s specialization in journalism and 
media studies, his favorite class to teach harkens back 
to the basics.
“I like COMM 10 a lot. I got to teach about a 
lot of things that weren’t my speciality, and it was 
interesting in that way,” Hallin explained. He likes 
the challenge of learning new things. One peek at his 
bibliography takes him from a doctorate in political 
science to a book about media systems and finally to an 
upcoming work with a medical anthropologist about 
the coverage of healthcare in the media. The diversity 
of research Hallin brings to UCSD is a driving force 
behind the communication department’s mission to 
transform the way we think about communication and 
communications technologies.reputation, since we invited him first. Instead, his 
goal is to start a conversation between students 
and administration. He hopes that UCSD will 
consider students’ opinions when making 
decisions — especially, he claims, when wrong 
decisions can be hurtful to their future career 
prospects.
“I’ve heard of a college that had the Dalai 
Lama come to commencement, and afterward, 
one of the Chinese students came back to China 
to look for work. During [this process], his HR 
just said, ‘I heard your college commencement 
speaker was the Dalai Lama so I can’t give you 
a chance.’ Not only is it hurting our feelings, it’s 
hurting our professional careers. That’s a rare case, but I mention it as a possibility.” Though the 
Dalai Lama indeed spoke at Tulane University in 
2013, a source could not be found to verify this 
anecdote.
...
Huang and Fang both vehemently support free 
speech. Fang cited it as the reason he is making his 
voice heard. He explained that if UCSD can invite 
the Dalai Lama to commencement, then students 
can tell everyone how they feel about the event. 
Huang wished that UCSD invited the Dalai Lama 
to a different event instead, so that students could 
choose whether to attend. Of course, graduating 
seniors can indeed choose to not attend, but who 
wants to miss commencement?
At the end of the day, I was still left 
confused by what the facts were. Pages about these controversies are long and dense, and 
fact-checking this article proved to be nearly 
impossible. For example, simply checking if 
slavery existed in Tibet was difficult: Sources 
supporting China claim Tibet, prior to 1959, 
included 95 percent serfs. This is the same 
viewpoint Huang and Fang tried to give me. 
Other sources suggest it was more analogous to 
a caste hierarchy, or that the Chinese government 
did not improve the situation by invading and 
Tibet was well on its way to reforming itself. I 
still don’t know what the truth is. But you don’t 
have to have a strong opinion on the affairs of 
Tibet and China to lend an ear to other students 
who have something to say about it.
TIA IKEMOTO  TIKEMOTO@ucsd.edu
BEHIND THE LECTERN
Daniel Hallin - Breaking the Boundaries of CommunicationBy Tia Ikemoto  / / Associate Editor
The Guardian sat down with Daniel Hallin, the longest standing Communication professor at UCSD who helped build the department from its earliest days.▶ DALAI LAMA , from page 6
TIMothy deng  TIdeng@ucsd.edu
Photo Courtesy of Daniel HallinTHE GAME OF  THE GAME OF  
CALIFORNIA
CENTRAL 
VALLEYSF
SC
ST ART HERELA AREASOLVANGAND SB
SANTA SAN HUMBOLDTCRUZFRANCISCOEND HERE
GO SURFINGGO SKIING
SEE THE DESERTSTOP FOR 
IN N OUTT AKE A WINE BREAK
A Danish City in Calif ornia
 by Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Editor
No need to take a Viking riverboat to peruse the Scandinavian coastline when Solvang is just 
a short drive away from Santa Barbara. A little tourist city with a charming personality, Solvang 
is a displaced Danish village, home to small wooden toy stores, ebelskiver pancakes dusted with 
powdered sugar, sunflower fields and, of course, iconic Danish pastries filled with jams and 
cream cheese. And remember those Danish cookies, with a crunchy sugar exterior that filled 
those industrial-sized tins? Solvang sells them by the bucket. 
If you’re a self-proclaimed eighty-year-old trapped in a twenty-year-old college student’s 
body, Solvang is your time to shine. This city collectively sleeps at 8 p.m. and rises with the sun, 
with most shops closing early, so be sure to make this stop during the bustle of the mid-morning 
or late afternoon. If the early-bird special is not quite your style, this small town is still aglow at 
night by Tumblr-esque Christmas lights, making the late evening stroll seem like something out 
of a European fairytale. And if you’re lucky, a pub or two will be open for you wild late-night 
owls who are in need of a good beer while your tuckered-out grandmother of a friend (me) takes 
a nap. A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
VISIT YOSEMITE
EA T T ACOSStrolling in Santa Barbara
by Tara Nejad//Staff Writer 
If you’re looking for a more lively spring break 
destination, Santa Barbara is a great pick. With 
easy beach access and an outstanding amount of 
young locals and delicious eateries, you’ll be sure 
to have a good time. 
Things To Do: 
Cruise Down State Street: Whether you 
actually want to shop or just want to people-watch, 
State Street is the perfect place to do so. While it 
may take a while to find parking, the street is lined 
with cute little shops, restaurants and art work. 
Stearns Wharf: The wharf offers a great view of 
the Santa Barbara shoreline. With mini shops and 
restaurants along the walk, there is plenty to do. 
There is also a small museum, the Santa Barbara 
Museum of Natural History, where you can learn 
more about all of the resident sea creatures. 
Whether you just want to walk, have some fresh 
seafood, grab a cone of ice cream or catch the 
sunset, the wharf is a great place to visit. 
Zoo: The Santa Barbara Zoo has over 500 
animals that you can visit. In addition to the 
animals, there are also beautiful botanical gardens 
available for visitors. 
Farmers Market: With over 130 vendors, the 
farmers market is a great way to support and 
familiarize with local businesses in Santa Barbara. 
The market can be found in downtown on both 
Tuesdays and Saturdays and has a wide variety of 
specialty items that can make for great souvenirs 
for friends and family. 
Los Agaves: With over 2,000 reviews on Y elp 
and a 4.5-star overall rating, Los Agaves is a must-
try, but be sure to come hungry! The menu has 
a lot to choose from and portion sizes are quite 
generous. Ever since my first bite of the delicious 
oven-baked nachos, I have never looked at tortilla 
chips the same way. Illustrations by Susan Sun and Christina CarlsonLIFESTYLE        THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ST ART HERESEE THE DESERTSan F rancisco
by Annika Olives// Lifestyle Associate Editor
Nestled between ocean and bay, San Francisco is an incredibly popular tourist 
destination famous for its orange-red (not golden!) bridge, sloping hills and year-
round fog. The city prides itself on accepting and celebrating all kinds of people, no 
matter your race, culture or sexuality, and San Franciscans build a strong community 
around this idea. 
After hitting the usual spots, like shopping at Union Square, walking the Golden 
Gate, sampling food at the Ferry Building or seeing the walruses at Fisherman’s Wharf, 
try these lesser-known places for a different look into my favorite city. 
Journey to the newly renovated SF MOMA to enjoy seven floors filled with art. 
Y outh ages 18 and under get in for free every day. Bernal Heights offers a beautiful, 
sweeping view of the city — visit it during the day to walk around the green hills or 
take a ride on the swing, or at night to admire the bright skyscrapers and sparkling Bay 
Bridge. Grab a burrito from one of the taquerias on V alencia Street and enjoy it while 
you scrounge for treasures in thrift shops and used bookstores, or pop into boutiques 
to see their new stock. Sutro Baths, located at one end of Ocean Beach, offers remnants 
of a historic bathhouse. Hike down to the reflection pool or hike north and you’ll 
eventually hit Land’s End, a rock formation with a nice view of the Golden Gate. The 
Moraga street steps offer a perfect photo-op for any Instagram fiend, and any hipster 
will find their fair share of good coffee with Philz, Blue Bottle, Sightglass, The Mill, 
Ritual Roasters and many more cafes. While there are hundreds of restaurants in San 
Francisco, enjoy the temperate night and choose a cuisine from over 30 food trucks at 
an Off the Grid event, especially on Friday nights at Fort Mason or Sunday Presidio 
Picnics.   
Consider checking out websites like SFGate, FunCheap or Eventbrite to search 
for different events (most of them free) going on in the city that week, ranging from 
outdoor exercise sessions, comedy nights, film panels and a variety of art exhibits and 
shows. 
If nothing on this list catches your fancy, wander. The city is small, spanning only 
seven-by-seven miles, so plant yourself in a district and start walking — you’re bound 
to run into something you like. Santa Cruz  
by Annika Olives//Lifestyle Associate Editor
At its core, Santa Cruz is first and foremost a surf town. 
In the late 19th century, Hawaiian royals introduced surfing to the mainland of the United 
States. The city has kept its laid-back vibe since then, but its mix of picturesque beaches and 
tall forests makes for an interesting NorCal-meets-SoCal blend. 
People usually stop here for the famous beach boardwalk, a seaside amusement park 
featuring rides, a full arcade, mini golf, laser tag and tons of carnival food. Admission to the 
boardwalk is free, and attraction tickets aren’t too pricey. Plenty of people also come for the 
beach, where the water is sometimes warm enough that you can get in without a wetsuit. 
Or if you’re turned away by the crowds, visit the Mystery Spot to get a different kind of 
dizzy. Advertised as a “gravitational anomaly, ” the spot defies the laws of physics and is likely to 
be a fun experience for anyone, of any age. 
For nature enthusiasts, Santa Cruz’s unique ecosystem offers some beautiful views. Henry 
Cowell State Park has over 15 miles of hiking trails through evergreen and across creeks, some 
leading to quiet beaches and others leading to sights from the Santa Cruz Mountains. “The 
loop, ” one of the park’s more popular trails, is a short hike filled with towering old-growth 
coast redwoods, some over a thousand years old. On the flip side, Natural Bridges State Beach 
is a good spot to observe wildlife on the land, in the sea or in tidepools. Spot some whales if 
you’re lucky, but you’re more than likely to see a few butterflies — this location is renowned for 
its monarch butterfly migration. Or head to Shark Fin Cove — you’ll know you’re at the right 
beach when you see the massive fin-looking rock formation rising out of the water. If the tides 
are low enough, you can even venture into the sea cave. 
Danger seeker? Cliff dive from the “Toilet Bowl, ” but make sure you don’t hurt yourself on 
the rocks if the waves are swelling. Or jump into a swimming hole in the secluded Garden of 
Eden, if you can find it. 
Santa Cruz may not be your first choice of city for a day trip, especially if you’re coming 
from the North and having to drive on the infamous Highway 17. However, the town’s chill 
atmosphere and natural wonders will keep you coming back for more. 
Central Valley Woes  
by Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Editor
Be like the Joads, hop in the jalopy and make your way up the Grapevine into the heart of California. Don’t let the smog and dairy farm s deter you from hitting the valleys of what-
used-to-be green and plenty. Not to be passed by like a rest stop on your way to self-proclaimed “real” cities of California, try spending a few hours in this Texas-Oklahoma transplanted 
region and pay homage to the place that gives you the staples of a Cali diet. 
Driving up the Interstate 5 can be a real pain — trust me, I do this multiple times a year to get home in the fiery pit known as Bakersfield — and the Pacific Coast Highway seems 
much more appealing on your way up to San Francisco, but don’t be the stereotypical spring-breaker. Before you hit Bakersfield, stop by Murray Family Farms and get in touch with 
your inner gardener; pick your own bucket of berries or basket of peaches to snack on on your ride up. Looking for something to keep you from melting in the 90-degree spring weather 
Central Valley has to offer? Dewar’s Ice Cream Parlor or Rosemary’s Diner in downtown Bakersfield has the scoop to keep you cool. 
Catch a sunset at Panoramic Vista Point, overlooking the oil fields, and perhaps start a conversation on how to fight big oil corporations when “10 questions” starts to lose its charm. 
Or maybe do a little hike (if you beat the heat of noon) at Wind Wolves near Tehachapi, take a stroll through Hart Park and if all else fails, drive further up to Fresno because at least 
there’s a Cheesecake Factory.
True, the Central Valley may not have the most to see or do and is not even remotely desired as a destination for spring break, but hey, it’s still home to many for some reason or 
another. And if all else fails, at least you can say you’ve been to the place that grew the avocado for your toast at some bougie La Jolla brunch hotspot. 
P eacef ul P alos Verdes
by Tara Nejad//Staff Writer
 
Looking for somewhere more low-key to spend a 
couple days of break? Palos Verdes is a small, secluded, 
coastal city outside of Los Angeles. With no direct 
access from the freeway, PV is considered a hidden gem 
in comparison to its more well-known and crowded 
neighboring suburbs. Because of its quiet streets and 
unbeatable views, it's the perfect place to relax this 
spring break, and be sure to stick around long enough 
to catch an amazing sunset view!
Things To Do: 
Hiking: PV is known for the amazing hikes. Take a 
stroll at Del Cerro Park for an amazing panoramic view 
of the peninsula. Or head over to Pelican Cove Park for 
a steep hike down a cliff that leads you to the edge of 
the ocean.
Terranea: Terranea resort is the ultimate relaxation 
spot. Sneak into the huge pool area or head down to the 
water edge to play some tetherball. The massive resort 
is also a great place to walk around and spot some nice 
cars or maybe even an extravagant wedding. 
Sunken City: Head over to the famous Sunken 
City in San Pedro for an unbeatable photo shoot 
opportunity. On a cliffside elevated above the ocean, 
this cluster of rocks is known for beautiful locally 
sourced graffiti art. 
Abalone Cove Tide Pools: Have you been itching 
to interact with a sea anemone ever since Finding 
Nemo came out? Now is your chance. The tide pools at 
Abalone Cove are a super fun and active way to spend 
your afternoon. After a short hike down to the water’s 
edge and some looking around, you have the chance of 
finding anything from sea slugs and crabs to star fish.
W ayfarers Chapel: Last but definitely not least, the 
must see W ayfarers Chapel, also known as “The Glass 
Church. ” The beautiful glass building was constructed 
by the famous architect, Frank Lloyd Wright, and has 
a beautiful rose garden in addition to its amazing view. P asadena
by Jocelyn Yang//Staff Writer
Pasadena is an old treasure mine that is too often slept on. 
Established in 1847, it’s easy to find hidden gems within hidden 
gems such as the Rose Bowl Flea Market. Or if you prefer not 
to rifle through eclectic vintage collections, then spend your 
morning picking out fresh produce and meeting new people 
from Pasadena’s Certified Farmers Market. 
The sunny days might even inspire you to hit one of the 
sweetest spots for ice cream: Carmela. Besides offering delectable 
artisan flavors like mint cacao nib, rosemary with toasted pine 
nuts and white peach vanilla bean, Carmela also boasts winning 
titles, such as LA Weekly’s “#1 Ice Cream Place, ” Bon Appetit‘s 
“#1 Artisan Ice Cream in America, ” Tastemade’s “Top 10 Best Ice 
Cream Shops in America, ” LA Magazine’s “Best of LA ” twice and 
Pasadena Weekly’s “Best of Pasadena” five years in a row. 
After you’ve had a bit of pear-champagne sorbet or brown-
butter sage, burn off some of that sugar and head on over to 
Eaton Canyon Falls for an easy three-mile hike to a crashing 
40-foot waterfall and clear pools. The path is relatively flat and 
the best part is arguably the cool, dribbling natural streams 
keeping you company throughout the first mile. 
Before the sun goes down, make the drive over to Norton 
Simon Museum, which not only offers free admission to students 
but also free parking. Check out its amazing collection of classic 
world-renowned artists like Edgar Degas, Francisco de la Goya, 
Rembrandt, Jean-Honoré Fragonard and Pablo Picasso. This is 
the place to experience multiple centuries’ worth of art from 
many different countries — all in one place!
If you’re not feeling the free admission, free parking and free 
views at Norton Simon Museum, be sure to drop by Old Town 
Pasadena. This is not a spot to miss: the night-life is bustling, the 
live music is loud, the street performers are engaging and the 
food is fresh. The whole commercial area is kid and pet-friendly, 
so you’re almost guaranteed to get in a few good dog pats while 
you’re there. T he Untold T ales of Northern Calif ornia
by Nadia Link//Contributing Writer
Ahhh, California. The beautiful state with golden beaches, swimsuit-clad individuals, eternal summers and celebrities popping out of the wazzu. With all the songs about California, 
it’s hard to imagine that the Golden State is anything else. Well believe it or not, as the third-largest state in the Union, it actually has quite a lot more to offer. My friends, let me tell 
you about the harrowing tales of the mystical, the mysterious, Northern California.
Do you like trees? Unless you’re a nature enthusiast, I am going to assume you have no particularly strong feelings about them like you might have about a day at the beach. But, I 
believe your opinion could change if you ever visit the Northern California redwoods. 
Imagine standing on a gentle incline surrounded by the light sounds of nearby water and rustling branches. It’s cool, but not cold, and the smell of wood and pine are prevalent. 
The colors of brick red, green and blue go as far as the eye can see. It’s crazy peaceful. Well, those are the redwoods. They are so calming and remote you feel like the Wood-elves from 
“The Lord of the Rings” might jump out at you.  
For activities, you have hiking, swimming and camping. Or you can find a nice place to sit and take it all in, much like you would at the beach. Y ou want a bit of civilization in your 
northern getaway? Y ou can visit the city of Humboldt with its vibrant college-town atmosphere.
In the winter, snow really makes the scene look tranquil. Sledding and cross-country skiing are a couple of the pastimes that visitors and residents both enjoy.  
If you’re lucky, you’ll stumble upon a banana slug — the same banana slug that UC Santa Cruz chose to adorn its campus with. And for any daredevils out there, you can lick the 
banana slug and experience the absurd sensation of your tongue going numb (can verify as fact).
I know the beach sounds awesome, but think about all the tourists, all the sunblock you’ll need and sand getting literally everywhere. If you want something a bit more unique and 
secluded, opt for the redwoods in Northern California.  
West Hollywood  
by Jocelyn Yang//Staff Writer
West Hollywood houses some of the best sights of 
California that almost beg its visitors to showcase every 
mural from Melrose walls on your Facebook walls. It is also 
home to a variation of top-notch 
But before you get all the way to West Hollywood, stop 
by Venice for a lovely boulevard called Abbot Kinney. This 
little strip includes eateries and shops sitting comfortably 
side-by-side down the street. Notable food places to visit are 
Gjelina for pizzas, plates and salads, The Butcher’s Daughter 
for a bright brunch, Zinque for colorful flavors and Plant 
Food + Wine for an open-air experience with fresh foods. 
If you’re feeling a little thirsty, check out Blue Bottle Coffee, 
Intelligentsia Coffee and Kreation Juicery for customized 
pressed juices. And to the convenience of your hungry belly, 
even dessert at Salt & Straw — with new ice cream flavors 
every so often — is right around the corner!
Arguably one of the best parts about these dense cities 
is that good food spots cluster together on the same street. 
Once in West Hollywood, go down Sunset Boulevard 
for Daikokuya’s famed noodles or The Griddle Cafe’s 
overwhelmingly flavorful breakfast and brunch orders in 
copious portions. Then prepare yourselves for Melrose, the 
celebrated avenue for its many pit stops for food and pictures. 
Check out Urth Caffé for its salads and sandwiches, Le Pain 
Quotidien for bakery goods and fine wines, Gracias Madre 
for clean eating and vegan delights and Blu Jam for hearty 
brunches. Y ou’re bound to find at least a few good large-scale 
art pieces on the walls of Melrose. And in case you missed it 
back in Pasadena, Carmela ice cream is also available in West 
Hollywood. It’s not too late to pick up a scoop of cranberry 
orange thyme sorbet or watermelon mint! 
Finally, if you manage to make it out of there without 
getting stuck in a food coma or in traffic, be sure to take 
the Pacific Coast Highway on your way out to the next 
destination. 10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
Fedra Ramirez, affiliate of the blossoming 
student duo On Fifth, uses her jazz and 
blues influences to showcase her melodious 
flair amid the urban Gaslamp nightlife.By Melissa Palafox // Senior Staff WriterMeet Fellow Triton
While most students at UC 
San Diego focus on meeting 
graduate school requirements 
or obtaining valuable internships, Fedra 
Ramirez stands out as a musician in love with 
the gratification and experience that comes 
with performing. Being a theater major has 
given her the opportunity to express herself 
while studying at a university that is too 
lustful for STEM. As she took the time to sit 
down with the UCSD Guardian to tell us of 
her journey from a spectator of downtown 
night life to a performer, she didn’t fail to 
remind us that she still is a UCSD student 
— stressed to meet deadlines and complete 
undesirable science GE classes.
Ramirez is a junior in Thurgood Marshall 
College who was born in Mexico City but 
raised in both Miami, Florida and Chula 
Vista, California. 
When asked what inspired her to become 
a musician, she replied, “I don’t remember 
not wanting to be one. … When I was little, 
I used to sing a lot because it was easy, and 
you didn’t need to know how to play an 
instrument. ”
As a dedicated performer, her father took 
young Ramirez along to events and musicals 
he would attend. And just like that, her inter -
est grew into an aspiration.
She and fellow high school friend-turned-
partner-in-crime Shereen Fahrai bonded 
over similar tastes in music, which eventually 
blossomed into the formation of On Fifth. 
She was always used to changing schools, so 
establishing a newfound bond valuably trans -
formed her high school experience. “I was 
new and making new friends at the time, ” she 
said, referencing her life on the move. 
However, their mastery on the guitar and 
their rich cultural backgrounds ultimately 
sparked a musical relationship.
As a theater major, performing on stage 
has become a part of herself, but the path 
there was far from straight for Ramirez. In 
the midst of searching for opportunities to 
showcase their talents, she and Fahrai both 
used one thing to help get over their stage 
fright: street performing. “W e were hanging 
out in downtown [San Diego] one day, and 
we didn’t have any money to hang out, ” she 
said, “so we thought, ‘Why don’t we street 
perform?’” 
Their name “On Fifth” reflects their fre -
quent busking spot: at the intersection of 
5th Avenue and G Street in the Gaslamp 
Quarter of San Diego. Ramirez nostalgically 
described the ambiance of street performing 
as charismatic, and said she was able to inter -
act with lively characters like herself. “No 
one’ s really paying attention to you at first, 
so it really helped me work on my projection 
and audience interaction, ” she said.
When you are that dedicated to your 
craft, opportunities begin to reveal them -
selves. On Fifth has gone far in the past three 
years, from participating in a diverse range 
of stages of open mic nights to gaining gig 
opportunities at the House of Blues. “It was 
fun. W e got to meet some interesting people 
and even work with old analog recording 
equipment — so old that even Elvis Presley 
worked with it!” she boasted.
On Fifth has taken a brief break from 
performing to record its debut album. “It 
might be an EP , we’re not sure yet. We hope 
to have it complete by summertime so we can 
perform it, ” Ramirez said. 
When asked about a song that holds value 
to the duo’ s endeavors, she mentioned one 
they wrote themselves — “La Vie Urbaine des 
Roses, ” channeling the life and perspective 
of a boy downtown selling roses whom they 
frequently observed. “There really is no par -
ticular reason as to why it’ s partly in French, 
but we think maybe it has to do with that fact 
that the Gaslamp Quarter has some French 
influence, ” she explained. Jazz, the blues and 
French chansons are big influences for On 
Fifth’ s eclectic sound and highlights the two 
performers’ individual cultures.
Whether it’ s making it big by being in 
the right place at the right time, or spending 
years grinding through the music industry, 
Ramirez demonstrated that the journey can 
help you find your style and reason for per -
forming. “I definitely want to move to New 
Y ork after graduation, ” she expressed about 
her future aspirations. “I feel like it’s the best 
place for people with passions in theater and 
music. ” 
But for now, the Gaslamp Quarter is her 
getaway and On Fifth’s platform to discovery.
PHOTO COURTESY OF ON FIFTHA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
A w i n n e r  of five Academy 
Awards, “All About Eve” 
is a masterpiece from 
Hollywood’s Golden Age. Starring 
Bette Davis, Anne Baxter and George 
Sanders, this is a classic drama that 
explores the ambition, manipulation 
and fragility felt and caused by those 
involved in the the acting business. 
Margo Channing (Bette Davis) 
has maintained the title of one of 
New Y ork’s best actresses for decades. 
The most successful playwright in 
the country, Lloyd Richards (Hugh 
Marlowe), and his wife Karen 
(Celeste Holm) are her best friends, writing her roles that only increase 
her stardom. Bill Simpson (Gary 
Merrill), a famous and dashing 
director is madly in love with her. 
Despite appearances, Margo’s 
insecurity regarding her age and the 
fear of dwindling fame prevents her 
from truly realizing how ideal her 
life is. Enter Eve Harrington (Anne 
Baxter), a seemingly innocent young 
woman who idolizes Margo. After 
discovering that Eve is alone in this 
world after the premature death of 
her husband, Margo takes pity on 
her and appoints her as a personal 
assistant and confidante. As Eve becomes more involved with Margo’s 
life, however, it becomes apparent 
that she is as much of an actress as 
Margo, demurely disguising ulterior 
motives that threaten every aspect 
of Margo’s life and career. Quickly, 
the plot catapults from a drama 
about the midlife crisis of an actress 
into a suspenseful struggle for the 
recognition and happiness of the 
spotlight between Margo and Eve.
“A l l  A b o u t  E v e”  m a y  b e  m o r e  
than 60 years old, but unlike the 
aging Margo, it remains a timeless 
classic, with only a few minor 
cinematic details that unveil its being from another generation. The fears 
of growing older, never realizing 
your dreams or being betrayed by 
a trusted one are as relatable and 
relevant today. Stylistically, the 
cinematography is not limited by the 
technology of an older Hollywood, 
but contributes to the film feeling 
more like a play rather than a movie. 
There is a limited number of simple 
sets that are rotated, narration and 
soliloquies to clarify the feelings of 
characters and carefully calculated 
dialogue with an air of cynicism 
and wordplay similar to onstage 
dramas. In short, “ All About Eve” is a masterpiece in every sense of the 
word and will be appreciated by fans 
of both older and newer films alike. 
In order to celebrate this iconic 
film, Turner Classic Movies has 
sponsored it to be specially screened 
in theaters across the nation on 
March 8, including the AMC La Jolla 
Village 12 at both 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. In 
order to buy tickets, learn more about 
the film or discover other upcoming 
classic films coming to the AMC La 
Jolla theater, visit fathomevents.com. 
—   DAIS Y SCOTT  
Contributing WriterTurner Classic Movies has returned this definitive psychological drama to the vaunted silver-screen for a limited engagement.
RETROSPECTIVE    REVIEW
All  About  Eve
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
Event   Turner Classic Movies
Location AMC La Jolla
Screening Date   March 8 , 2:00 /7:00 PM
Rated   PG12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
“The Great W all” seems 
to have a fascination 
with visual assaults 
and gratuitous action above all other 
aspects of film. At its greatest, it delivers 
relatively amusing displays of heroic 
combat; at its worst, it’s a shoddy jumble 
of incomplete exposition, half-hearted 
dialogue and banal storytelling. Even 
a performance by Matt Damon (an 
unenthusiastic one, at that) does not 
absolve this film of mediocrity. This 
doesn’t necessarily mean that a focus 
on violence is detrimental. A work 
involved in artistic and spectacular 
portrayal of conflict can be wondrous 
and enrapturing. It happens that 
the attempt here has neither merit.
The opening bodes no warm 
satisfaction. Lone survivors of an 
expedition for black powder, William 
(Damon) and Tovar (Pedro Pascal) find themselves caught up in a war 
to rescue China from gluttonous, 
hippopotamus-sized lizards. From 
here, the dialogue becomes flavorless. 
William and Tovar together bear 
a single dimension of emotion, 
limiting their conversations to 
mutual annoyance with each other’s 
dispositions. The defenders of the wall 
fare no better, spouting trite words 
in a dispirited fashion. Whatever 
drama is supposed to be emotionally 
compelling takes a tumble off the wall 
and is squashed unceremoniously. 
Disappointingly, Damon refuses an 
offer to jump the wall in a cheesy trust-
building exercise with Commander Lin 
(Jing Tian). It would have ended the 
suffering of himself and the audience.
Of course, if the people in the 
audience wish to pay attention, they’ll 
be quick to point out how utterly ludicrous the tale is. The vengeful 
heavens sending their reptilian 
minions to wreak havoc upon a greedy 
mankind? Their weakness is magnets? 
And the fastest way to get to the capital 
of China is by balloon? One would find 
more originality in the third sequel 
to a Hollywood remake of a popular 
book series. Despite these absurdities, 
the actors somehow invest themselves 
in this irrational realm without batting 
an eye; the suspension of disbelief is 
lost on actors both overplaying and 
underplaying their characters. They’re 
neither convincing nor interesting. 
Pascal enters the wall a tormented 
traveler who desires no share of 
black powder nor any role in the war 
against the monsters. Fifteen minutes 
later, his sense of self-preservation 
remains intact, except imbued with a 
feverish lust for the explosive material. Conversely, no tears are shed when 
General Zhao (Zhang Hanyu) is 
assassinated. His final orders a vain 
croak that no person cares to hear.
The ensuing chaos is meant to 
distract from the lack of substance and 
imagination. Whether one is pondering 
the juvenile imagination that produced 
such a contrived progression or is 
blinded by CGI, the good feelings 
here are more schadenfreude than 
elation. The animation manages to 
be concedingly pleasant, if not for 
the overuse of slow-motion shots and 
extreme close-ups. It’s difficult to free 
oneself of the pleasure derived from 
limbs being torn from human and 
reptilian torsos, Goldbergian death 
traps and defenses, and the absolutely 
hilarious experimental airships that 
end up incinerating 80 percent of their 
riders. Not that it entirely tempers the absolute garbage that is every significant 
plot point. It is very pretty, though!
The lack of eloquence of almost 
every moment is indicative of the 
film’s desire to move scenes quickly 
without giving too much away. 
Ignorance is the one request for the 
audience. Y et, the Hollywood-standard 
action cannot conceal a sinfully awful 
misadventure of ridiculous wonders 
and unimpressive exchanges. “The 
Great Wall” offers nothing else 
substantial of value. If a student 
majoring in Chinese studies feels that 
he is too intelligent for his own good, 
“The Great W all” is a fantastic remedy. 
—   Da vid  de  Leon
Contributing WriterAn irredeemable feature of magnificent dross and wanton violence, confusing spectacle for substance, best watched with flask in hand.
FILM  REVIEW
The  Grea t  W all
PHOTO COURTESY OF LEGENDARY
Director   Zhang Yimou
Starring Matt Damon, Jing Tian, Pedro Pascal, Willem Dafoe
Release Date   Feb. 17, 2017
Rated   PG-13 D+  CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
BEREISHIT  DANCE COMPANY
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM • ARTPOWERTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 6 - MAR 122017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 3.06 WED3.08THURSDAY 3.09  • 8pm
THU3.09
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE3.07
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
BARB WIRED DREAMS: THE 
ANATOMY OF AN IMAGE WITH 
YOLANDA LOPEZ - COMUNIDAD 
ROOM, CROSS-CULTURAL 
CENTER
Yolanda M. Lopez (born 1942) is an American 
painter, printmaker, educator, and film producer 
based in the Mission District, San Francisco. She 
is known for her work that focuses on the 
experience of Mexican American women and often 
challenges ethnic stereotypes associated with 
them. A third-generation Chicana raised by her 
mother and her maternal grandparents in Logan 
Heights, San Diego, Yolanda moved to San 
Francisco and became involved in the student 
movement that shut down San Francisco State 
University in a 1968 strike called the "Third World 
Strike." She enrolled at UCSD, receiving a Master 
of Fine Arts in 1979. Yolanda will speak on art 
and its relationship to the border and border 
identity. Contact: jamez@ucsd.edu
6pm
MEET THE BOSS: AN EXCLUSIVE 
INTERVIEW - THE BASEMENT, 
MANDEVILLE CENTER
Please join us for the UCSD Student Foundation's 
annual Meet the Boss event! You're invited to an 
exclusive evening of networking, discussion, and 
a moderated Q&A with five San Diego-area, high 
profile executives, boasting four UCSD alumni 
and covering the fields of Engineering, Law, 
Public Service, Business, Entrepreneurship, 
Pharmacy, Medicine, Biology, and Biotechnology. 
Personally meet prestigious members of the 
UCSD Foundation and ask questions about their 
field(s) of study, applying for jobs, life after 
college, and career advice. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
7pm
DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES: 
HENRY SPILLER - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER RECITAL 
HALL
The Distinguished Lecture Series continues with a 
presentation by ethnomusicologist and UC Davis 
lecturer Henry Spiller. Free admission. Contact: 
mroos@ucsd.edu10am
REVELLE MONDAY - REVELLE 
COLLEGE COMMUTER LOUNGE
Join Provost Yu and Revelle Faculty for informal 
conversation - topics of your choice include 
research, careers, and much more! All Revellians 
welcome! Contact: ndaly@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGAN 
CHEEZ-ITS AND SUN DRIED 
TOMATO HUMMUS - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Come join us as we demo vegan Cheez-it crackers 
and sun dired tomato hummus, hosted by Michelle 
Zitt, and enjoy some FREE samples! All materials 
and ingredients will be provided. Seating is based 
on first come, first serve. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
6pm
BLABBERMOUTH - THE LOFT, PC 
EAST
Have a song or story to share? Blabbermouth is a 
monthly event held at The Loft, giving writers of 
prose, poetry, and fiction, as well as musicians 
and performers a place to share their art. You can 
sign up to perform up to a 10 min. set here: 
tinyurl.com/BlabbermouthSignUp Doors: 6:00PM, 
Show: 7:00PM. FREE. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu  11am
ART & SOUL: WATERCOLOR ART - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Flow with the brush to make a colorful collage! 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
TRANSLATING THE VALUE OF YOUR 
UCSD EXPERIENCE - TEACHING 
AND LEARNING COMMONS, 
ROOM 1503, GEISEL LIBRARY
Learn how to discover, capture, and share your 
experiences inside and beyond the classroom, and 
how you can translate its value as you apply for 
jobs and/or graduate/professional programs. 
Learn what employers are looking for when hiring, 
and practice how to speak to your experiences and 
the skills you developed. Presented by Kimberly 
Elias, Engaged Learning Tools Coordinator, 
Teaching + Learning Commons Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
6pm
BEATS FOR THE BRAVOS - PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM WEST
After losing their parents to a motorcycle accident 
in April 2015, the five Bravo children had been 
living in a small, two-room home with their 
grandfather. The house’s thin walls collapsed in 
the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that devastated 
the Ecuadorian coast in April 2016, forcing the 
Bravo children and their grandfather to move in 
with their aunt into an even smaller space. 
MEDLIFE’s Spring Into Action Campaign is asking 
its chapters to collectively raise at least $14,000 
toward building a safe, comfortable home for the 
Bravo family. To contribute to this campaign, our 
event, Beats for the Bravos will be a night of fun 
dancing, performances, and free food for just a 
small entrance donation of $5! Contact: 
ucsdmedlife1@gmail.com
SAT3.11
8:15am
12TH ANNUAL FINANCIAL 
HORIZONS CONFERENCE - RADY 
SCHOOL OF MANAGMENT
The Financial Horizons Conference is a free, 
one-day event to learn from and network with 
accomplished professionals, UCSD alumni, and 
leading minds in finance. The Conference is 
UCSD's premier educational and networking event 
for students looking to broaden their financial 
knowledge and employers looking to recruit fresh 
talent. If you are interested in exploring career 
possibilities or connecting with leading 
professionals, this conference will be the perfect 
opportunity.  Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu5pm
GENDER EQUITY AND HEALTH 
- SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Gender inequities and gender based violence 
pose a major threat to the health and full social 
and economic development of women and girls 
across the globe. Join Dr. Anita Raj to discuss 
the issues being tackled by the UC San Diego 
Center on Gender Equity and Health. Contact: 
s1raya@ucsd.edu
6pm
HIDDEN FIGURES: FREE 
SCREENING + KEYNOTE 
SPEAKERS - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER 
In honor of Women's Herstory Month, the 
Women's Center presents a free screening of the 
film Hidden Figures, along with two keynote 
speakers. Astrophysicist Dr. Jedidah Isler and 
astronaut Dr. Yvonne Cagle will kick off the 
event with a talk on women in STEM, followed by 
a Q&A session after the film. Contact: 
brolsen@ucsd.edu
8pm
BEREISHIT DANCE COMPANY 
AT ARTPOWER - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Bereishit is a Seoul-based dance company that 
approaches the Korean traditional culture from 
a contemporary perspective. The company 
explores the issues of identity and 
transformation with a dance style that merges 
the control and full-body excitement of break 
dance with sleek artistry and urban cool. The 
street style in dress and movement disguises 
finely honed skill in balancing bodies at 
extraordinary angles and in extraordinary 
configurations.  Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduSUN3.05FRI3.10
2:30pm
2017 TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE 
DAY - TELEMEDICINE BUILDING
Translational Medicine Day (TMD) will bridge the 
discussions occurring in San Diego’s vibrant and 
expansive research community with the future of 
cutting edge healthcare. TMD will gather students, 
professors, and industry together to enhance the 
heart of this discussion. Contact: 
sschmole@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE BEAT CONCERT - THE LOFT,
PC EAST
FREE A CAPPELLA CONCERT!  It's that time of year 
when The Beat @ UCSD brings back our annual 
WINTER CONCERT! Dance the night away !There 
will be SPECIAL GUESTS from SDSU and UCSD 
performing, so come out and groove to our spunky 
show!!  FEATURING: SoundWave SDSU Co-ed A 
Cappella, UCSD Daughters of Triton. The best part: 
it's ABSOLUTELY FREE + open to EVERYONE! 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 8588222068
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Forced through a fraternity gauntlet
6. Letters on some TVs
9. “Don Juan” poet
14. Remark directed to the audience
15. Hot tub comments
16. Postman’s beat
17. 1917 revolutionary
18. It’s thrown in anger
19. Inspect the books
20. Records on the hill?
23. It may go with the floe
24. Just won’t let it go
25. It’s hailed in cities
28. Piece of the past
30. They say OK to drugs
33. Divide proportionately
36. Sharon and Meir
39. Some of that old time religion?
42. Stone wall or glass ceiling, etc.
43. One of the senses
44. Bro’s sib
45. International money
48. Toothed tool
49. He has a feast day in Norway
51. Au naturel
54. Subject of “Police Academy” movies?
61. Kind of range
62. IX’s opposite, on a clock face
63. Apia is its capital
64. Having handles, as a ewer
65. Ending for Japan or Siam
66. Pumbaa’s pal
67. Runs at an easy gait
68. Partner of Stimpy
69. Some rap lingoDown
1. Fair split
2. Between ports
3. Zn
4. Prepares for press
5. Like a blockhead
6. Popular fund-raiser
7. On the best-dressed list
8. Blow away, in a sense
9. North Carolina fort
10. Truly intro
11. Like Don Rickles’ persona
12. Grammy-winning Redding
13. Hoop attachments
21. Rowboat need
22. Mother-of-pearl
25. Mafia leaders
26. Accused’s excuse
27. Say a benediction over
29. Metric measure
30. Follow-up on a good brushing
31. Official pronouncements
32. Sideways
34. Mo. for leaf blowing
35. Drink with a bag
37. Toward the tiller
38. Pedro Martinez stat
40. About 70 percent of the earth’s 
surface
41. Softer, as a pillow
46. Conan of the night
47. Anatomic pouch
49. Little hooter
50. English university town
52. Gets all the breaks?
53. Message by modem
54. Guitar ridge
55. One with a forked tongue
56. Michael Jackson’s ‘70s do
57. River flowing to the Seine
58. The avenging Mrs. Peel
59. High time for Cooper
60. Spicy tasteFURNITURE
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves are 
glass. Bottom with small door. Superb 
condition. Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156999 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - Entertain 
in style with this lovely wooden high-top 
table and stool set. Made from fir and 
pine. Comes with stools and table. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305156995 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash Sale 
- Furniture is in attractive condition as it has 
been a month since we bought it. Please 
contact -- if you are interested. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE $300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
PETS
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. I have 
3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m moving to a 
place with limitation of two pets, I need to 
find them a new home! They are all healthy, 
playful and energetic. Litter box- trained. 
There is one girl, the others are boys. If you 
could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not 
a breeder, so they have never been to a vet. 
However, their parents are healthy. Listing 
ID: 305139343 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. Super 
cute purebred Holland Lop Baby Bunnies. 
They are 8 weeks old and ready to go. I 
handle all my baby bunnies from birth, 
so they are all tame and sweet. They will 
be between 3-4 pounds when full grown. 
I will show you how to handle your new 
bunny and give you lots of helpful informa -
tion. Please text me at 951-294-2051. I am 
located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 305984269 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. Adorable 
Olde English Bulldogge boys born on 06 
Aug 2016. The pups will be ready to go home on 01 Oct 2016 at 8 weeks of age. 
They will come with first two sets of vac -
cines. Please be in touch for rehoming fee 
if interested and/or to schedule an appt to 
visit. Parents on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
MARCH 7 • NATIONAL PANCAKE DAY
6+O3 TR,TO1 OUTF,TTER6
to.ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
twice and bringing their deficit 
to two points going into the half. 
Mounier sank a pair of free throws 
and a jumper to cut an eight-point 
Pioneer lead down to four. A layup by 
Williams tied the game at 29–29, but 
Pioneer senior guard Shomari Harris 
knocked down a jumper to give Cal 
State East Bay the lead heading into 
halftime. 
Both teams had shooting woes 
in the third quarter. Cal State East 
Bay went 4–15 (26.7 percent) and 
UCSD didn’t fare better, going 3–17 
(17.6 percent). Because of the poor 
shooting, UCSD found itself unable 
to close the two-point gap it faced at 
the end of the first half. The Pioneers 
grew their lead to a quarter-high nine 
points that the Tritons would cut 
down to five with a pair of free throws 
by MacLeod and a layup by Williams. 
The Tritons came close to tying 
the game in the fourth quarter when 
a layup by Williams brought the 
game to 48–45 with 4:35 remaining. 
However, missed buckets and fouls 
by UCSD resulted in a growing deficit 
that it could not overcome. Mounier 
hit a buzzer-beating three at the end 
of regulation, however the game was 
already decided by then. 
“Down the stretch, we always felt 
like we were clawing our way back 
into the game, ” UCSD head coach 
Heidi VanDerveer said in the post-
game press conference. “Never had a 
pace of the game, never had control 
of the game, and that’s to East Bay’s 
credit. Hopefully, we’ll be fortunate 
enough to play in the Regionals and 
use this as a learning experience. ”Tritons Await 
NCAA Decision For 
Regionals
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 16
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team was named the CCAA 
Tournament Champions as it powered 
through its competition throughout 
the week. The championship journey 
began on Tuesday night, when the 
Tritons hosted Humboldt State at 
RIMAC Arena in the quarterfinal 
and dispatched their opponent from 
the competition, 78–72. Winning 
gave the Tritons the opportunity to 
head to Cal State San Marcos, where 
the semifinal and final games would 
take place. Northern rival Chico State 
awaited UCSD in the semifinal on 
Friday evening, and the Tritons took 
care of business against the Wildcats 
in dominant fashion, winning 65–53. 
From that point on, the weekend 
came down to one game for UCSD 
as the team was matched up with 
San Francisco State on Saturday 
night for the tournament crown. The 
Tritons showed no nerves as they 
blasted through their opponent with 
a convincing 15-point win, 78–63, for 
their second conference tournament 
championship.
Game v. Humboldt State
Humboldt State did its best to put 
up a fight against UCSD but, when 
the dust settled, it was simply not 
enough as the Tritons were able to 
scrape away with the win. It seemed 
like it would be a routine night 
for UCSD as the team led 46–32 
at halftime, but the Lumberjacks 
consistently chipped away at the lead 
and took advantage of some careless 
turnovers by the Tritons to keep the 
game close during the second half.  
Humboldt State’s ship was led 
by sophomore guard Nikhil Lizotte 
and redshirt sophomore guard Tyras Rattler, Jr. as they combined for 
44 points and single-handedly kept 
the game at striking distance for the 
Lumberjacks.  
In the end, senior guard Adam 
Klie led the Tritons to the win with 
a career-high 29 point display to go 
along with five rebounds and three 
assists. Klie was not alone in having 
a career-night: Sophomore guard 
Christian Oshita filled up the stat 
sheet with a worthy double-double, 
19 points and a career-high 15 
rebounds.  
The team’s eighth consecutive win 
not only sent them to the semifinal 
on Friday, but also set a new record 
for most consecutive wins since 
joining NCAA Division II in the 
2000-01 season.  
Game v. Chico State
In the semifinals, the Chico 
State Wildcats didn’t even get close 
as UCSD led the whole way and 
made quick work, cementing an 
opportunity to compete in Sunday’s 
final. The win gave the Tritons 24 
wins on the season, the most wins 
in the program’s history since being 
granted NCAA Division II status.  
Sophomore center Chris Hansen 
led the way with a double-double 
performance of 20 points and 11 
rebounds, while Klie scored 15 points 
and dished the ball out for four assists. 
The 65–53 scoreline was indicative 
of the defense played on the night as 
neither team shot the ball extremely 
well, however the Tritons did an 
exceptional job of closing down the 
space for the Wildcats.  
The Wildcats shot a mere 29 
percent in the first half and struggled 
tremendously from the charity 
stripe as they only knocked down 
nine of their 19 free throws during 
the contest. Meanwhile, the Tritons shot 42 percent overall on the night 
and were able to maintain their lead 
through both halves.  
Game v. San Francisco State
The Saturday night finals matchup 
against the San Francisco State Gators 
started out as an incredibly close 
affair despite being blown wide open 
in the second half. The Tritons pulled 
ahead to the tune of 15 three-pointers, 
propelling them to a 78–63 win over 
the San Francisco State Gators and 
earning themselves a brand new 
championship banner in the process.  
Senior guard Aleks Lipovic and 
tournament MVP Klie led the Tritons 
with 18 points each, while Oshita 
contributed with 15. Lipovic and 
Oshita made their cases during the 
tournament run and earned spots on the all-tournament team. 
The Tritons’ 10th-straight victory 
earns them a berth in this year’s 
NCAA Tournament and a place in the 
record books for the most victories in 
school history with a 25–5 record — 
an outstanding achievement for an 
incredible group, from the coaches 
to the players to all those in and 
around the team; they have done an 
exceptional job. 
Up next for the team is the NCAA 
Tournament, where it will compete in 
the NCAA West Region. However, it 
will have to wait for Sunday’s NCAA 
announcement to find out who its 
first opponent will be.  MEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
SENIOR StAFF WRITER
Daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd,edu
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduTritons Crowned CCAA Tournament Champions
After dominating the regular season, UCSD continued to manhandle their CCAA opponents, and took 
the championship for the first time since 2008 to the tune of 15 three-pointers in the final against SF State.The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team participated in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association tournament last week. 
UCSD defeated Sonoma State in the 
first round 53–46 to advance. Next, 
the Tritons faced Stanislaus State in 
the semifinals Friday night. Following 
a high-scoring 82–67 game, UCSD 
found itself heading to the finals 
with an opportunity to take out the 
defending champion, Cal State East 
Bay. Unfortunately, the Tritons were 
unable to defeat Cal State East Bay 
and fell to the defending champs in a 
62–53 game. 
Versus Sonoma State (53–46)
Whether it was a result of playoff 
nerves, a poor warm-up or better 
defensive schemes, the opening 
minutes of the CCAA tournament 
game between Sonoma State and 
UCSD began with ice-cold shooting 
from both sides. Neither team scored 
until 6:08 in the first quarter, when a 
steal by Seawolf sophomore forward 
Taylor Todd on Triton junior forward 
Dalayna Sampton led to a jumper 
by Seawolf junior guard Jessica Mitz 
to bring Sonoma State up 2–0. The 
basket by Sonoma State seemed to 
spark something in the Tritons, as 
they went on a tear to secure a 32–17 
lead heading into the second half.
UCSD never lost the lead that it 
secured in the first half. However, 
both teams shot rather poorly in the 
third quarter: UCSD went 2–12 (16.7 percent) from the field and Sonoma 
State went 6–19 (31.6 percent). The 
Tritons, despite being outscored in 
both quarters (12–17 in the third and 
17–14 in the fourth), were able to eke 
out a victory over the Seawolves. The 
advantage that the Tritons secured 
in the first half helped them take the 
win, 53–46. 
Senior guard Beth Mounier and 
redshirt freshman forward Mikayla 
Williams led the Tritons in scoring 
with 15 points each. Sampton 
contributed with eight points and 
eight rebounds.
The Seawolves just couldn’t 
convert their shots despite putting 
up 13 more shots than the Tritons. 
UCSD as a whole went 20–49 (40.8 
percent) from the floor compared to 
Sonoma State’s 17–62 (27.4 percent). 
From behind the arc, UCSD shot 
4–14 (28.6 percent) while Sonoma 
State went 3–20 (15 percent). 
Versus Stanislaus State (82–67)
UCSD handily defeated Stanislaus 
State Friday night, securing an early 
lead in the first quarter that it never 
lost. Sampton and Mounier, who 
were selected to the All-CCAA First 
Team, proved that the selections 
were deserving. Sampton racked up 
a double-double with 20 points and 
11 rebounds, and Mounier pitched 
in with a statline of 20 points, six 
rebounds and a career-high eight 
assists. Two other Tritons scored in 
double-digits; senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod and Williams both had 11. 
The Tritons outshot the Warriors 
from the floor, going 29–61 (47.5 percent) from the floor while the 
Warriors shot 23–61 (37.7 percent). 
UCSD outscored Stanislaus State in 
every quarter except for the fourth, 
where both teams scored 20 points 
apiece. 
The Triton offense distributed the 
ball far better than the opposing team, 
with 18 assisted field goals compared 
to the Warriors’ seven. 
A three-pointer by MacLeod early 
in the first quarter gave UCSD a 5–3 
lead that developed into a 10-point 
lead by the end of the first. 
The Warriors came close to closing 
the gap in the second quarter, cutting 
the gap down to four points twice. 
However, the Tritons were having 
none of it, pushing their lead to 39–28 
at the end of the second quarter courtesy of a layup by sophomore 
guard Marcella Hughes. 
Sampton took over in the third 
quarter, scoring nine points and 
grabbing seven rebounds. The 
Tritons outscored the Warriors 23–19 
in the third and grew their 11-point 
lead to a 15-point lead heading into 
the fourth. 
At one time in the fourth quarter, 
the Tritons held a 21-point lead over 
the Warriors. Mounier scored eight 
of her 20 in the fourth to make sure 
Stanislaus State didn’t have a chance 
of coming back. The closest Stanislaus 
State ever got to coming back in the 
quarter was at 9:30, when sophomore 
guard Caprina Pipion made a layup 
to bring the game to 62–49. 
Versus Cal State East Bay (53–62)
UCSD fell to Cal State East Bay 
in the championship finals, 53–62. 
Three-point shooting made all the 
difference in this championship 
game: UCSD shot 3–14 (21.4 percent) 
while Cal State East Bay went 8–18 
(44.4 percent). 
The first quarter of play saw 
three lead changes and three ties. 
The Tritons had a 16–14 lead due to 
senior guard Haley Anderson’s layup 
with 3:11 remaining. In spite of the 
Triton’s efforts, the Pioneers gained 
a five-point, 24–19 lead at the end of 
the first.
The Tritons fought back in the 
second quarter, tying the game 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
TRACK AND FIELD
UCSD 
Hosts 
All-UC 
Challenge
At their home opener for the 
season, both the Triton men and 
women track teams took second 
place behind UC Santa Barbara 
and edging UC Irvine.
by Rosina Garcia // Editor in Chief
The UC San Diego women’s and 
men’s track and field teams hosted 
the All-UC Challenge, which was 
also the home opener for the Tritons, 
last Saturday. Both women and men 
competed against UC Santa Barbara 
and UC Irvine. It was the same 
finishing order on the women’s and 
men’s sides, with UCSB in first (169.5 
for the women, 177 for the men), 
UCSD in second (133.5 and 134) and UC Irvine in third (72 and 63). 
UCSD was the only team to have 
any of its athletes secure a spot at 
the NCAA Championships. Redshirt 
senior Chrissi Carr broke her own 
school record in the pole vault, 
clearing 13’1.5” , putting her a foot 
over second place finisher senior Ariel 
Chang of UC Irvine. This will be the 
third consecutive year Carr has earned 
a spot at the NCAA Championships.A few Tritons earned provisional 
qualifying marks for the NCAA 
Championship meet: freshman 
Chelsea Challacombe in the high 
jump, senior Khalil Flemister in 
the triple jump and sophomore 
Arik Nesbit also in the triple jump. 
Challacombe (5’6”) even beat 
fellow teammate and All-American 
senior Savanna Forry (5’4.25”), who 
finished in third. Flemister (48’4”) and Nesbit (48’2.5”) placed first 
and second in their event, ahead of 
UCSB’s sophomore Joshua Rennick 
(46’5.25”). 
Overall, UCSD won nine events: 
freshman Avery Schulhofer in the 
100m (12.18); senior Ella Verhees 
in the 800m (2:17.59); senior Jackie 
Chalmers, sophomores Christina 
Winn and Kelly Strand and junior 
Meghan Fletcher in the 4x400m relay (3:56.98); junior Paul Doan in the 
200m (22.05); sophomore Nicholas 
Rack in the 100m hurdles (14.63); 
and freshman Josef Polk in the 400m 
hurdles (55.16). 
The Tritons are back at home next 
Saturday, March 11, to host the San 
Diego Collegiate Challenge. 
woMen's BASKETBALL
Coming Up Short In 
Conference Championship
UCSD loses to Cal State East Bay in the final after 
earning the first seed and the regular season title.
BY  R i c h a r d  l u
staff Writer
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
See W. BASKETBALL  page 15UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSwim & Dive
Swim & Dive
Swim & Dive
W. Tennis
W. Water PoloAll Day
All Day
All Day
2 PM
6 PM3/8
3/9
3/10
3/10
3/10AT NCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
VS Emory
VS Cal State Northridge
rosina garcia  rmg008@ucsd.edu