VOLUME 50, ISSUE 26  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREWHAT IS LOVE?
BORED OF DINNER AND A 
MOVIE? CVS SOLD OUT OF HAVE 
HEART-SHAPED CHOCOLATES 
AND GENERIC TEDDY BEARS? 
WORRY NOT, THE UCSD 
GUARDIAN HAS YOUR BEST 
INTEREST AT HEART. THIS 
WEEK, LIFESTYLE OFFERS YOU 
A NON-TRADITIONAL GUIDE TO 
VALENTINE’S DAY, SO READ ON, 
FELLOW ROMANTICS.
DALAI  LAMA  A T  COMMENCEMENT 
Students contest speaker's presence
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
 “ URGE  UCSD TO ABSORB 
THIS SIMPLE  SENTIMENT , TO 
MAKE  IT OUR OWN. . . . LIFE 
IS BETTER  WHEN  WE AID OUR 
COMMON  HUMANITY ,” 
- Aisha Subhan
OP-ED
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
BRIEFS ............................ 2
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR....4
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. BASKETBALL  ............ 16lifestyle,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY SUSAN SUN
HE’S ONE OF THE MMW 
PROGRAM’S MOST ENIGMATIC 
PROFESSORS, TEACHING 
THOUSANDS OF ERC 
STUDENTS IN HIS 10 YEARS 
AT UCSD. THE GUARDIAN SAT 
DOWN WITH PROFESSOR 
EDMOND CHANG TO LEARN 
ABOUT HIS COLORFUL PAST 
AND WHAT DREW HIM TO 
TEACH AT UCSD.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
M.  BASKETBALL
UCSd  clinches  CCAA  Ber th
sports,  P age  16LIFELONG W ANDERER
Researchers at the Salk Institute 
of Biological Sciences published 
a new study reporting their 
integration of human stem cells 
into developing pig embryos in the 
scientific journal, “Cell, ” on Jan. 26. 
The results could lead to solutions 
addressing the 22 people who die 
every day waiting for an organ 
transplant, a statistic from the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human 
Services. 
To create the human-pig hybrid 
embryos called “chimeras, ” scientists 
used CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing to 
delete the DNA sequence of a pig 
embryo that codes for the creation of 
a specific organ. The enzyme, Cas9, 
acts as a pair of molecular scissors 
that can cut the two strands of DNA at specific locations, allowing 
scientists to insert the desired 
sequence. In this study, human stem 
cells were injected, creating the 
chimera and replacing the missing 
DNA to theoretically grow a human 
organ for patient transplantation. 
“This is a dream, really, and it 
may take years to achieve this goal, ” 
Wu told the UCSD Guardian. “Many 
challenges [lie] ahead, including 
technological, scientific, ethical and 
societal. ”
One ethical concern involves 
the incorporation of human cells 
into an animal’s brain, which would 
create controversy as to whether 
such animals would exhibit human 
sentience. Wu, however, explained 
that the findings revealed no 
incorporation of human cells into 
the embryo’s developing central 
nervous system.“I need to emphasize that our 
goal is definitely not to create any 
‘fearful’ creatures that the public 
may have imagined,” Wu told 
the Guardian. “We stop the pig 
development before four weeks, 
which roughly corresponds to 
eight to 10 weeks in humans, and 
during this time we can study how 
the human cells interact with the 
pig host and how to avoid human 
cells [contributing] to the central 
nervous system and the germline, 
which are the main source of ethical 
concerns. ”
Siddhant Ambulkar, Earl Warren 
College junior and executive 
editor of UC San Diego’s Saltman 
Quarterly, an undergraduate 
biology research journal, compared 
the surrogate pigs to farm animals 
but also to animals with potential Food Co-Op 
Reopens After 
Weeks of  
Closure, Needs 
Volunteer sCO-OP
The Co-Op hopes to attract 
more students by increasing 
its social media presence. 
The UC San Diego Food Co-Op 
reopened on Monday and is seeking 
volunteers. The collective is entirely 
student-run and serves inexpensive 
vegan food to anyone on campus. 
It is located in the Old Student 
Center across from Groundworks 
Bookstore. 
A number of volunteers and 
alumni made efforts to renew 
interest in the Co-Op’s activities 
after it closed down several weeks 
ago due to lack of funding, according 
to member Tom Corningham. The 
volunteers hosted a food workshop 
three weeks ago for members of 
UCSD’s Vegetarian Club, where 
students learned to make vegan 
tuna in the Co-Op’s kitchen. The 
Co-Op also strengthened its social 
media presence on Facebook and 
Instagram.
In a recent five-star review 
on Facebook, Pravine Wilkins, a 
student, wrote that the Co-Op is 
the “Best food on campus no doubt. 
Only place a dude can get a real 
samosa round here!”
Corningham said he was 
“optimistic that we can restore 
the Food Co-Op to its former 
glory. ”  
Sophomore Enrique Chitica 
began volunteering at the Food 
Co-Op during fall quarter.
“It’s great because I get to learn 
so much about food and health from 
more seasoned volunteers, ” Chitica 
told the UCSD Guardian. “It’s also a 
completely collective effort. There’s 
no hierarchy, and everyone gets to 
be a boss. ” 
Another benefit is that student 
volunteers get discounts on food, 
he added. 
Most of the produce used at the 
Co-Op is from fruit and vegetable 
gardens at UCSD, according to 
Corningham, but the Co-Op is 
aiming to earn a steady income 
in the future to purchase more 
fresh produce and consistently 
make inexpensive, healthy food for 
students. 
“$5 All-You-Can-Eat” lunches 
are regularly sold at the Co-Op on 
Wednesdays. The facility also hosts 
brunch events at Groundworks 
Bookstore and other locations. 
During off hours, the restaurant 
serves as a laid-back space for 
students to study and enjoy their 
free time. 
They are currently hiring core 
members, who volunteer for eight to 
nine hours a week. Volunteers can 
sign up by filling out a sign-in sheet 
at the entrance.
The Co-Op is open on Tuesdays 
from 1 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., Wednesdays 
from 2:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. and Fridays 
from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. VP External Candidates Introduced at Forum
Three candidates running for the office 
of vice president of external affairs made 
their cases at a public forum on Wednesday 
night, explaining why they believe they should be 
appointed the position. The winning candidate 
will become one of four executive officers within 
A.S. Council along with President Daniel Juarez, 
Vice President of Campus Affairs Sabrina Ekdahl 
and Vice President of Finance and Resources 
Justin Pennish. The responsibilities of the office 
include, but are not limited to, representing UC 
San Diego at UC Student Association board 
meetings and organizing student lobbyists on the 
local, state and federal levels. 
Dennis Y eh, the first candidate to speak at 
the forum and an international studies and 
political science major, underlined his experience 
communicating and negotiating with legislators. 
Having interned abroad in both Hong Kong and 
Thailand with a focus on banking, Y eh said he 
can bring a “global perspective” to the office. He 
also hopes to “leverage student potential” when 
it comes to lobbying and plans to introduce a 
system that gives each legislator a letter grade 
based on their performance to make it easier 
for students to keep representatives accountable. 
Without any previous experience in UC San Diego student government, Y eh said he views himself as 
an outsider who can bring new solutions to A.S. 
Council.
“I’m able to represent the student body in 
various ways, ” Y eh said in closing, “whether it be 
through my major or through my race. ”
Nicolas Monteiro, the second candidate to 
speak at the forum and an ethnic studies major, 
is the current organizing director in the office 
of external affairs and cited his experience as an 
important reason to appoint him as the next vice 
president. Monteiro presented a three-step plan 
of which the first was to fully staff the mostly 
vacant office. Second, Monteiro said he would 
be intentional about recruiting Muslims and 
undocumented students for the Student Lobby 
Conference, a lobbying workshop during the 
weekend of March 25 where students will lobby 
at the state capitol in Sacramento. Third, Monteiro 
hopes to strengthen the Triton Lobby Core, a 
student advocacy group that currently consists of 
only four members.
“I want to bring the expertise and knowledge 
I’ve acquired working in the office, ” Monteiro said. 
Miguel Martinez, the third candidate to speak 
at the forum and a sociology and political science 
major, is a transfer student from South Central B y  Ma tthew zamudio  news EditorFENCING
UCSD
The discovery could eventually lead to the development of human organs for transplant surgeries.See EXTERNAL , page 3
SCITECH
BY  L i sa  c h i k
SENIOR STAFF writer
See PIGS , page 3
BY  r i s h a b  S i n g h a l
Contributing writer
Scientists Integrate Human Cells into Pig Embryos
UC San Diego fencers competed in the Team Invitational this past weekend at Main Gym. Photo by Christian Duarte// UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
UC San Diego students, staff, faculty,  
and the public are invited to enjoy a taste  
of African-American culture through  
home-cooked soul food, inspiring 
entertainment, and more! 
General Admission is free.  Menu available 
for purchase. Complimentary dessert is 
included with the purchase of a full entrée.  
Special gift for the first 100 guests!  
(starting at 11:00am)  Wednesday  + February 15, 2017
Café Ventanas, Eleanor Roosevelt College
Program from 11:30am - 1:00pm  
Lunch Served 11:00am - 2:00pmFor more info,  please visit  
hdh.ucsd.edu/bhm
20TH ANNUAL BLACK HISTORY LUNCHEON
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican so dasDine-in onl Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIR ES 2/27/17
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jose is a confirmed hot boi.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatHello friends! Another quick 
meeting this week. 
A.S. Council passed a resolution 
this week calling for a divestment 
from Energy Transfer Partners, one 
of the companies behind the Dakota 
Access Pipeline. The University of 
California, as of June 30, 2016 (when 
the UC Retirement Plan holdings 
report was released) has both a 
direct and indirect investment in 
ETP either from directly investing 
or having a stake in banks that then 
go on to fund the company. 
The resolution states, “ ASUCSD 
urges the University to remove all 
financial investments it provides to 
Energy Transfer Partners as well 
as the following banks that invest 
in ETP such as  Sunoco Logistics, 
Citibank, Intesa SanPaolo, Suntrust 
and Wells Fargo and banks that 
offer credit lines to ETP such as 
ABN Amro Bank, Bank of America, 
Barclays, Compass Bank, Goldman 
Sachs, JP Morgan Chase, UBS, 
Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of 
Scotland. ”
The resolution continues, 
“ ASUCSD urges the University 
to remain accountable to its 
announcement made on Sept. 9, 2015 that it will absolutely divest 
current investments in coal 
mining and oil companies as well 
as companies that invest in coal 
mining and oil companies. ” 
If you wish to read the resolution 
in its entirety, contact your college 
senator, and I’m sure they would be 
happy to email it to you.
The Triton Food Pantry 
Expansion is prepared to open on 
Feb. 16, 2017.
A.S. Council is still in the process 
of interviewing candidates for the 
currently vacant vice president 
external affairs position. Candidates 
participated in a question and 
answer session on Feb. 7 which was 
open to the public. Assistant vice 
president of health and wellness 
interviews should be finished as this 
article goes to press.
There are plenty of applications 
open for various positions on the 
A.S. Senate. Open positions include 
out-of-state senator, physical 
sciences senator, biological sciences 
senator and off-campus senator. I 
highly recommend that anyone who 
wants to get involved with student 
government apply. But you better 
act soon as applications close on 
Feb. 15, 2017. Applications can 
be found online at as.ucsd.edu. In 
addition to open positions on the 
senate, A.S. Council is also looking for an elections manager. Anyone 
interested should contact A.S. 
Council President Daniel Juarez.  
To wrap things up Adan Chavez, 
the assistant vice president of local 
affairs, who has been serving as 
interim vice president of external 
affairs, gave a fantastic presentation 
in A.S. Council on the “State of 
External Affairs. ”
In the presentation, Chavez 
gave updates of where the office of 
external affairs has been, where it 
is now and recommendations of the 
direction the office should orient 
itself going into the future. 
Some of the key takeaways 
from the presentation: The Student 
Lobby Conference is going to 
happen Saturday, March 25 through 
Monday, March 27. Applications 
will open by the end of week five. 
In light of the U.S. president’s 
executive orders, a public website 
has been introduced that includes 
statements from UC campuses and 
also includes resources and links 
for those who may be affected. 
The website can be accessed at 
www.universityofcalifornia.edu/
immigration.
Chavez also noted that he was 
briefed on the Governor’s Budget, 
which shows the allocation of 
funding for the UC system. The 
budget provides an increase of $131.2 million General Fund 
representing a 4 -percent increase 
in funds consistent with the 
existing agreement between the 
governor and the UC president. 
Assuming current federal funding 
to California stays the same (which 
it may not considering Trump cuts), 
the increased funding should offset 
some of the cost of the tuition hikes. 
Due to the nature of the budget 
proposal, the increased funding for 
UC schools will increase the funding 
for Cal Grants so that it is able to 
nullify the effects of the tuition cost 
for its recipients. Unfortunately, this 
funding allocation will also see the 
phasing out of the Middle Class 
Scholarship. Starting in 2017–18, 
awards will be renewed only for the 
37,000 students who received awards 
in 2016–17, with no new awards 
for the program. By 2020–21, this 
proposal will reduce annual General 
Fund costs by $115.8 million.
That’s all for now! Happy Week 
6, and good luck with midterms!
A.S. Council Senate meetings are 
open to the public and take place 
Wednesdays starting at 6 p.m. in 
the PC Forum, located on the fourth 
floor of Price Center. Senate Calls for Divestment from Energy Company Involved with DAPL
After being closed in order to expand into the former A.S. Soft Reserves space, the Triton Food Pantry will re-open on Thursday.A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
human rights. 
“I think both killing for meat 
and killing for harvesting organs 
are similar because they both entail 
sacrificing the pig and using its body 
parts for human consumption,” 
Ambulkar told the Guardian. “[But] 
the final goals of growing human-pig 
embryos and using these organisms 
for harvesting organs may deal with 
very similar ethical concerns to 
abortion and even slavery. ”
To fund this study, Salk 
researchers who collaborated with 
Spain and UC Davis relied on 
donations from private foundations. 
The National Institutes of Health 
awarded a pioneer grant but does 
not allow the team to work on 
human stem cells.
The team chose to use pig 
surrogates because the size of 
their organs and their physiology 
are similar to humans. In fact, 
other labs around the world are 
working to develop methods for 
directly transplanting pig organs 
into humans, a field of study called 
xenotransplantation. Additionally, 
30 to 50 embryos can be transferred 
into a single surrogate sow, which 
helps the researchers test for 
different parameters, according to Wu. The disadvantages are that 
pigs have a gestation period about 
half the time of humans, which 
entails significantly different speeds 
of development, and pigs and 
humans are notably separated on an 
evolutionary scale. 
While chimeric embryos were 
successfully implanted and human 
cells in some embryos turned into 
the early stages of human organ 
tissue, previous experiments 
growing rat organs in mice were 
more promising, according to KPBS. 
Those mice lived normal lifespans 
with rat organs such as the pancreas, 
heart and eyes, setting a precedent 
for future research to be used in 
healthcare.
“Our next steps include 
applying the CRISPR/Cas9 
mediated interspecies blastocyst 
complementation system that 
is developed in rat and mouse 
to human and pig,” Wu said. 
“Realistically speaking, there 
are several applications that are 
possible in the next few years, which 
include in vivo disease modeling, 
in vivo drug testing [and] an in 
vivo platform to study human 
development and evolution. ”Los Angeles who served as the 
commissioner of student services and 
treasurer at his community college 
LA Trade Technical College. Martinez 
highlighted his experience by listing 
accomplishments, such as hosting 
grants with the city of Los Angeles 
to perform community events, 
participating in marketing campaigns 
and grant writing. He advocates for 
more state funding and hopes to 
build community relationships and 
programs. Martinez also said his love 
for interacting and connecting with 
people would allow him to excel in 
the position.  
“I have a lot of experience, ” 
Martinez said.
President Daniel Juarez said he 
is looking for a candidate who has 
“been around” and who “understands 
all the entities involved” and how 
they interact, including the UC 
Regents, UC Office of the President, 
UC Student Association and the state 
legislature. 
“We don’t have time for a learning 
curve, ” Juarez told the UCSD 
Guardian. 
The Guardian gave each candidate 
the opportunity to state why they 
believe they are the best choice for 
the office of vice president of external 
affairs. DENNIS YEH:
I believe that I am the best 
candidate for this position because 
I am an outsider to [A.S. Council] 
with an insider perspective on state 
and local government. I bring actual 
experience fighting for students’ 
rights beyond campus grassroots 
efforts involving the same instigators 
and resulting in the status quo. I 
am the best suited to harness the 
political uncertainty across the 
United States and will create realistic 
positive change for all people on 
campus. I hope to accomplish this by 
publicizing the roles and stances of 
lawmakers in California and forming 
coalitions with organizations other 
than student groups to create outside 
credibility. Lastly, my main goal is 
unique to the other candidates. I 
want to harness the potential of the 
apathetic who have become inured 
to the plight of the activists leading 
the charge.
NICOLAS MONTEIRO:
I believe that I am the best 
candidate for VP of External Affairs 
because of my expertise in organizing 
and building coalition to address 
issues at the local and statewide 
level — regarding topics such as 
sanctuary policy, access and retention 
of marginalized communities, and 
affordability of the UC [system]. 
Understanding how the office is run and where it needs restructuring, 
coupled with my knowledge of 
UCSA, will allow for the smooth 
transition into the position for 
effective organizing and advocacy 
that UCSD students deserve.
MIGUEL MARTINEZ:
During my tenure working with 
the Associated Students of LA Trade 
Technical College, I was able to 
advocate for the students at the board 
of trustees by bringing discounted 
bus passes and veteran’s resources 
to the campus. I have actively 
participated in the state-level student 
association of community colleges by 
lobbying for student-friendly policies 
regarding registration, finances, and 
resources. Lastly, I have rigorously 
been involved with the surrounding 
community of south Los Angeles by 
conducting workshops, community 
events and helping our clubs conduct 
community workshops as well. I have 
the skills, information and resources 
to get this job done effectively and 
efficiently — this is what makes me 
the best candidate.
A.S. Council members will 
cast their votes for the next vice 
president of external affairs on 
Wednesday, Feb. 15.▶ PIGS,  from page 1 Candidates Made Their Cases to the UCSD Guardian, Citing 
Their Experience and Plans for the AVP External PositionAmbulkar: Harvesting Organs Raises Ethical 
Questions Related to Abortion and Slavery
lisa chik  lchik@ucsd.edu▶ EXTERNAL,  from page 1 
application deadline:
sunday , February 26, 2017  
for PPLICATION QUESTIONS, Contact ASSOCIATEDSTUDENTS@ucsd.eduor the first-ever
uc student advisor!APPLY FOR
UC STUDENT
REGENTRaise your voice, leave your legacy
uc student regent:
 attend all uc board meetings maintain full voting power enjoy waived university fees
uc student advisor: 
attend all UC board meetings further supplement thE single student regent vote.ma tthew zamudio  m1zamudi@ucsd.edu
YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
OP-EDOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Education is a scarce and precious 
resource — but a vital one. For those 
in pursuit of a higher education in 
war-torn areas, the educations of 
their dreams remain insurmountable. 
Now, new challenges lie ahead          
in America.
In light of recent currents events, 
I first urge the University of California 
President Janet Napolitano to issue a 
statement demanding protection for 
international and refugee students 
and the repeal of the executive 
order’s ban on student visas. Further, 
I urge UC San Diego to establish a 
scholarship program for promising 
students who qualify for refugee or 
political asylum status.
In response to this crisis, UCSD 
could play a unique, life-saving 
role. For the university’s benefit, a scholarship program of the like 
could further UCSD’s mission and        
future goals. 
Within UCSD’s mission lies the 
following statement: “ As a public 
university, it’s our responsibility to 
give back to society by educating 
global citizens, discovering new 
knowledge, creating new technology, 
and contributing to our economy. ” 
Providing and assisting for the 
world’s refugee population, would 
serve as lasting investments in all 
of these areas. Such a population 
would only enrich our society.
UCSD anticipates creating a 
new environment that will require 
“critical thinking, emotional 
intelligence and other key skills 
See SCHOLARSHIP , page 5BY RUIXUAN WANG
What I am writing cannot 
represent all Chinese 
students’ thoughts, 
but most of us share the same 
disappointment about the university’ s 
invitation of the 14th Dalai Lama to 
speak at this year’s commencement. 
The main reason why many Chinese 
students are upset is that our 
university shows little consideration 
about cultural respect, as he is a 
politically sensitive person in China. 
We admire all his achievements in 
promoting education and raising 
awareness on environmental issues, 
and we admire the fact that he won 
the Nobel Peace Prize. We respect 
free speech no matter what he is 
going to say at the commencement. 
However, we also want to address 
our concerns. 
Commencement is a landmark 
of our life. Our family members 
are coming all the way from China, 
flying for more than 10 hours to 
celebrate with us. The Dalai Lama, as a political icon, is viewed differently 
in our country. We want to spend 
a fantastic time with our family 
during the commencement, but his 
presence will ruin our joy. What 
we want to say is that objectively, 
he will be an excellent speaker for 
the commencement. Nonetheless, 
culturally speaking, his selection 
to be a presenter is inappropriate 
in such a situation, considering 
how many Chinese students and 
their families are going to attend                                   
this commencement. 
We came here because of UC San 
Diego’s academic reputation. We are 
doing our best to be open-minded, 
to communicate with everyone and 
to respect everyone and the degree 
to which democracy is valued here. 
Our nation values unity just as you 
value democracy in the United 
States. However, the Dalai Lama 
spent his whole life trying to separate 
Tibet from the mainland of China, 
regardless of how much privilege and freedom the government offered the 
people of Tibet. His conflict with 
our government caused property 
loss, deaths of innocent people 
and panic among the general 
public — even though he 
claims that he advocates 
for a nonviolent 
revolution. In 2008, his 
actions triggered riots 
and protests in Tibet 
and spread out over 
the country, before 
the Beijing Olympics 
in August. 
There is no absolute 
right or wrong in the political 
world. T ruth is hard to uncover. What 
we are experiencing is disrespect as the 
university did not take our and our 
families’ feelings into consideration. 
We ask you to listen to what 
we are thinking. No matter 
what the result will be, 
we will appreciate your 
understanding.
OP-EDWhy I Won’t Accept 
the Dalai Lama As A 
Commencement Speaker
BY MILTON SAIER
All statements about global 
warming, racial equality and 
LBGT rights were removed from 
the governmental web site within 
Trump’s first days in office, thus 
confirming expectations and fears 
that the environment and human 
rights will not be a priority. The U. S. 
has relied on a two-party system for 
a very long time. The Democratic 
Party has striven to implement a 
democratic form of government that 
promotes equality. The other party, 
formerly the Republican Party, has 
used gerrymandering, supported 
the non-democratic electoral 
college, used voter suppression 
and stuffed the electronic ballot to 
achieve power and promote their 
insidious agendas.  It can now 
— officially — be considered the 
Fascist Party. Every one of Trump’s 
selected appointees is consistent 
with his racist and sexists views, 
supported by White Supremacists, 
the American Nazi Party and the 
KKK.  How does it feel to be living 
under Fascism?  Fascism, 
Anyone?KEVIN LOURENSLetters  to the editor
Counties all across California 
are acting swiftly and decisively 
toaccelerate their transition to clean 
energy. On Feb. 15, the San Diego 
County Board of Supervisors will 
have an opportunity to make the 
right choice for our environment 
and our local economy by voting 
to move ahead with a Community 
Choice Energy Feasibility Study. 
Community Choice Energy is a 
tool that is increasingly gaining 
favor in the statewide effort to 
increase energy independence while 
slashing our carbon footprint. It 
works by allowing government 
to buy electrical power on behalf 
of its residents while the existing 
utility continues to maintain the 
grid. Community Choice can offer 
a higher percentage of renewable 
energy in electricity service at prices 
competitive with the investor-
owned utility. Among other 
benefits, Community Choice creates 
local jobs, boosts local economic 
development, controls energy costs 
for residents and helps reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions.
Residents in Sonoma have saved 
over $62 million cumulatively 
since Community Choice went 
live there in 2014. Meanwhile in 
Marin County, Community Choice 
has sparked the development of 
numerous local energy projects 
while keeping costs low.
San Diego residents deserve the 
same benefits as our counterparts 
across the state. The Board of 
Supervisors should vote yes to 
leaving the possibility of Community 
Choice open for San Diego county.
Sincerely,
Kevin Lourens
Revelle College, 2017
Environmental Systems DepartmentT o Editor,
Got letter S?
email us at opinion@ucsdguardian.orgBY AISHA SUBHANUrging UCSD T o 
Help Refugees Through 
Scholarship ProgramWe have a government of criminals. 
They are the greatest threat to our 
freedom, our democracy, our ways 
of life. We must fight fire with fire. 
An approach of appeasement is 
not only ineffective, it is morally 
wrong. Would you be civil to 
members of Hitler’s, or Mussolini’s 
fascist regime? I think not. 
Unfortunately, that’s the approach 
many take to deal with the fascists 
currently in power. They are 
equally as or more dangerous that 
the aforementioned regimes. So no 
one should try to fool themselves 
and others to justify the lies of the 
new regime. To tolerate fascism 
is to become a fascist. It’s time to 
be honest with ourselves first, and 
with others second. Let’s admit 
it: We live under fascism with a 
government that is a greater threat 
to our democratic way of life than 
we have every known.
— Milton Saier
Professor, Molecular Biology
UCSDA Government 
of  Criminals
 
. . .
we publi Sh them .ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
ILLUSTRATION BY 
CHRISTINA CARLSON
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2017-18MARCH 2, 2017Priority Deadline for  filing  the
FAFSA or CAL Dream Act Applic ation i s:
www.fafsa.g ovUse UCSD school code 001317. .
Use UCSD school code 00131700. www.CalDreamA ct.org
If you need assistance, please co ntact the Financial Aid  Office a t (858) 534-4480.Students who are U.S. Citizens or  Permane nt Residen ts
can submi t the FAFSA online  at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible  and who are not eligible  to submit  a FAFSA,
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:OR
Note:   You will be asked to provide 2015 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2017-18 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.that have previously not been 
emphasized. ” 
UCSD has a chance, more than 
ever, to respond, to act and to 
save lives. These key skills that the 
university hopes to emphasize can 
factor into a response to the very 
crisis mentioned here. 
While darkness, destruction and 
despair currently haunt these nations, 
one must think critically about the 
future. The children of these nations, 
refugees and the internally displaced 
are the future of this region upon 
return. Why not assist these children 
in the building of their foundations? 
Why not give them an opportunity 
to prosper and grow? Why not 
help them so they can help their         
nation heal?
In responding to this crisis, 
one must also utilize emotional 
intelligence. Given the certain climate of our world order today, we must 
sympathize more, open our hearts 
more widely and imagine being 
in their shoes. Much of our fellow 
humanity wishes for escape, hopes to 
continue to live and aspire just as we 
do. In displaying who we are, we can 
choose to respond, to improve lives 
and to shape a better future for us all. 
Because of similar scholarship programs and initiatives like Books 
not Bombs and the Institute of 
International Education, several 
success stories have emerged. 
Commenting on his experience, 
Syrian student at University of 
Evanston and scholarship recipient 
Walid Hasanato stated, “Life is better 
when you are genuine, simple, nice 
and inviting. Life is better when you 
are human” (Books not Bombs).
Finally, I urge UCSD to absorb 
this simple sentiment, to make it 
our own. Life is better when you 
are human. Life is better when we 
aid our common humanity. Life is 
better when we remain committed 
to all lives. Life is better when we                           
support life.  
Because I envision this program 
to support life itself, I have named the 
future scholarship program the The 
LIFE (Learning Initiative for Freedom 
and Equality) scholarship. ▶ SCHOLARSHIP , from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
I urge UCSD to absorb this simple sentiment, to make it our own . . . Life is better when we aid our common humanity.
opinion
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Of the many general education requirements 
Eleanor Roosevelt College demands of its 
students, perhaps the most infamous is Making 
of the Modern World, a five-course series on world 
history and writing that challenges students with taxing 
research papers. Despite its ill reputation, ERC students 
often look back fondly on one professor from the program 
in particular. With an ability to speak on just about any 
historical subject with ease, he weaves history lessons 
into enthralling tales and never fails to leave students 
with a moral lesson to ponder. This is the niche professor 
Edmond Chang has inhabited at UC San Diego for the 
past 10 years, following a life with many twists that have 
led him across multiple countries and many careers.
As you enter the MMW suite where Chang keeps 
his office, you’re greeted by the enigmatic camel that 
has become an emblem of the MMW program. His 
office exudes calmness, owing largely to the Buddhist 
memorabilia that decorates his desk and walls. His practice 
of Buddhism, particularly mindfulness, comes across in 
the calm, steady tone with which he speaks. I began our 
interview by saying that I expected it to last half an hour. I 
soon realized that, having so much to speak about, Chang 
would need much more time to faithfully tell his life story.
Chang was born to Chinese parents in Taiwan in 
1965, the height of the Cold War. His parents, like 
many Chinese people of their generation, grew up under 
severe hardship. Their childhoods were marked by 
war, first against Imperial Japan and then the civil war 
between communists and the nationalist government 
that immediately followed. Chang’s father enlisted in 
the nationalist army at the ripe age of 17. When the 
nationalists lost control of the mainland in 1950, he fled 
to Taiwan and was ultimately separated from his family.
His rough childhood pressured him to pick a practical 
career as a telecommunications engineer so he could 
provide a stable income for his family; however, Chang’s 
father’s true passion was studying history and politics. 
As a result, Chang was surrounded by these two subjects 
early on. His boyhood home was replete with historical 
journals and books that his father read voraciously, one 
after the other.
“Sometimes he would relate those histories to us, but 
we were kind of young, ” Chang recalled. “Most of all, it 
was when he was with other adults who were interested 
in similar issues, and I would sit on the side and listen 
for hours to their conversations, and they were all about 
historical issues and things he had learned and things he 
was interested in. So I would say that, subconsciously, 
it did leave its mark, kind of this interest in history              
and research. ”
As passionate as he was about history, his father kept 
more practical concerns in mind. Having lived through 
two wars, he and his wife were intent on keeping their 
children from the hardships they had lived through. 
Fearing a war with communist China in the late 1960s, 
they were determined to leave Taiwan for a more secure 
country. They got their wish in 1971 when, as part of a 
government exchange program, Chang’s father found 
work as a telecommunications engineer in Libya. At only 
seven years old, young Edmond found himself flung into 
a world very distinct from the one he was born into, 
surrounded by people who looked very different from 
him, spoke a different language and practiced a different 
religion. In spite of these differences, however, he came to 
feel very at home among his Libyan neighbors, sparking 
his interest in learning about different cultures which 
persists to this day.
“I played with the kids on the streets — I learned a little 
bit of Arabic just playing with them. And their families 
always invited us whenever there was a wedding or a party 
or a festival. They basically just welcomed us with open 
arms. And they had no reason to do this to, from their 
eyes, this strange, foreign family from Taiwan. They didn’t even know where Taiwan was, probably, and yet they 
treated us just as one of them. ”
Tripoli also proved to be an enriching place for him 
to explore his budding passion for history. Founded by 
Phoenicians in the seventh century B.C., the city has a rich 
history shaped by its Greek, Roman and Arab conquerors 
who left a multitude of monuments, many of which 
survive to this day. On weekends, Chang’s parents would 
take him and his siblings to see these ancient ruins, which 
became his own playground — unlike America, Libya 
doesn’t feel the need to fence off its historic monuments 
from the public.
Though they were happy living in Libya, Chang’s 
parents felt it was best to send him to boarding school to 
get his education and learn English. Thus, he went through 
another abrupt transition in 1973 when his parents put 
him on a plane to Malta, an island in the Mediterranean, 
to attend De La Salle College, a Catholic school. Eight 
years old and not knowing a word of English, Chang 
found himself in an unfamiliar environment without his 
parents at his side. Though initially traumatized by the 
transition, he found again that the kindness of strangers 
made the experience bearable — this time in the form of 
the Catholic brothers who ran the school. Recognizing 
that he was homesick, they made their best effort to 
ensure that he could adjust to the new environment. Their 
compassion made an impression on him and, though he 
never left his parents’ Buddhist faith, he learned to see the 
beauty in all religions, another lesson he now stresses to 
his students.
“These Catholic brothers dedicated their lives to the 
church, but what that dedication meant was to be kind to 
all humanity and to do good in this world. That school 
they opened was kind of a philanthropic mission to help 
bring children who needed a good education from all 
places, but also the local Maltese students — provide them 
with a very solid education at a low cost. This order had 
always been steeped in education and it’s their faith that 
inspired that. ”
After five years in Malta, he spent his junior high years 
at the Oil Companies School in Tripoli, which catered 
to American families of oil company employees. Then, 
for 10th grade, he applied to the exclusive St. Andrew’s 
boarding school in Middletown, Delaware, home to a very 
“rigorous, competitive” academic program. Not only was 
he accepted, but he was given a very generous scholarship 
as well. While living there, he became very close to one 
of his classmates, whose family treated him like a son. 
This experience left him with a positive impression of 
the country where he would spend the rest of his life and 
where his parents would move a few years later.
“That was my first exposure to America – the first place 
where I lived in America was in that boarding school. 
And it made me realize and appreciate the tremendous 
generosity of this country — the fact that this school was 
willing to offer this very generous scholarship to this non-
American, to this little boy from Libya that they’ d never 
met and, just asking nothing in return, agreed to provide 
this boy with this incredible education. ”
Following St. Andrew’s, Chang went to Tufts University 
in Boston, where he majored in both international relations 
and history. His aspiration at the start of his college career 
was to become a diplomat in the foreign service, a job that 
called to him due to his international background and love 
of meeting people from different cultures. However, like 
many college students, he came to realize in the middle 
of his studies that his original career goal wasn’t what he 
wanted to do at all. The realization came in his junior 
year, when he took two courses on the history of Latin 
America. His professor, Peter Winn, opened his eyes to 
the unsavory side of U.S. foreign policy, a pressing issue in 
the Cold War atmosphere of the mid-1980s.
“They exposed to me the history of America’s foreign 
policy in those countries and especially how it was a BEHIND THE LECTERN
Edmond Chang- A Lifelong WandererBy Oliver Kelton  / / Features Editor
SeeWANDERER , page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
history that was mired in the Cold War ideology, but 
also exploitation of the native and the local peoples of 
their aspirations for equality and for human dignity — 
everything that the U.S. had done for much of the 20th 
century was really counter to those aspirations. Somehow 
we always seemed to be on the wrong side of history, on 
the wrong side of the people. And it kind of shattered my 
dreams of one day working for the foreign service because 
of what I associated the [U.S.] Foreign Service with — that 
kind of almost imperialist American foreign policy. ”
His plans to become a diplomat dashed, Chang instead 
decided to focus on becoming a scholar. During his senior 
year his life took another abrupt turn when he took a 
poetry class with future Poet Laureate of the United States 
Philip Levine. Though he had not written a line of poetry 
in his life, Chang was determined to take an advanced 
poetry writing class with this renowned figure, who only 
taught at Tufts one semester out of the year. In order to 
waive the prerequisite for the class, which Chang had 
not taken, Levine asked for a sample of poetry. In one 
weekend he wrote the first two poems of his life which he 
admits, in retrospect, weren’t very good. However, Levine 
gave him an unexpected response.
“So I go in to see him during office hours, and he very 
pointedly said, ‘These poems are terrible. ’ But he said, ‘I’m 
gonna take you in my class, ’ because there were maybe 
two or three lines where he saw something. I never had 
experience writing poetry so of course they were terrible, 
but he saw two or three lines, and I don’t know to this day 
what he saw, but he saw two or three lines that convinced 
him to take me into that class. ”
What Levine saw in his poetry was a brutal honesty 
about life. In the scant verses that he wrote he recounted 
his struggle to fit in as an immigrant and his parents’ 
struggles with a series of failed businesses, themes which struck a chord with Levine, who spent much of his 
own work exploring working class hardships. In his 
one semester at Tufts, Levine became Chang’s mentor, 
sparking in him a passion for poetry and literature that 
soon became his primary obsession.
“In the middle of soccer practices I would zone out to 
focus on a line of poetry, this line that I’ d thought of for 
a poem. That’s how deeply immersed I was in that world. 
And to the frustration of my coach, because here was this 
captain daydreaming in the middle of practice. So I let 
him down, and I let a lot of my teammates down. It was 
my calling, I could see it. ”
With a letter of recommendation from Levine, Chang 
got into the prestigious writer’s workshop at the University 
of Iowa, where he received his Master in Fine Arts. While 
many of his classmates would go on to become starving 
artists, Chang decided he was “not the type of poet that 
would go to bars and chain smoke and wear black leather 
pants. ” He instead committed himself to academia, 
finding an additional interest in traditional Chinese 
literature. This led him to study comparative literature at 
UCSD, where he received his doctorate in 2002.
For a few years after receiving his doctorate, Chang 
became a high school teacher, moving back to Delaware 
to teach at the St. Andrew’s School. During this time he 
got married and started a family, with him and his wife 
relying on their jobs at St. Andrew’s for a stable income. 
His life would take another turn in 2006, however, when 
his father, who then lived in San Diego, fell ill. He moved 
back to help his mother take care of him and looked to 
find another teaching gig here. He was in luck — the 
MMW program needed to replace a professor who took 
an unexpected paternity leave.
“They needed someone quick, so the director at the 
time, Steve Cassedy, grabbed the first warm body with a Ph.D. around, and that was me, ” quipped Chang.
The initially quarter-long job teaching MMW 6 turned 
into an interim teaching position when the original 
professor found a job in the history department. Though 
the MMW department went on an exhaustive search for 
a new professor, going through hundreds of applicants, 
they ultimately chose to let Chang keep the job. Given 
his ease in speaking and his natural ability to make his 
students feel inspired by the subject matter, it’s no wonder 
that they made that choice.
Sadly, Chang’s father passed away soon after he 
received his professorship. The loss of his lifelong mentor 
was tough, but Chang feels that ultimately he had made 
his father proud.
“I do sometimes feel that one of the things that made 
him proud before he passed away 10 years ago was 
knowing that his son had become a teacher, especially 
someone who teaches history. That was something that 
I think he was always proud of because I think in some 
ways he wished he could have done it himself. ”
His past 10 years at UCSD have been an equally 
interesting and eventful chapter in his life, one in which 
he has become an inspiration for countless students. He 
has introduced many of them to the study of Buddhism, 
leading students to Deer Park monastery in Escondido 
year after year. Perhaps the culmination of this was his 
trip to India in 2014, when he brought a handful of his 
most passionate students to meet the Dalai Lama. Though 
I wanted to hear more about these adventures, the hour 
he had put aside for our interview came to an end. He 
reassured me, however, that he would meet with me again 
to tell the rest of his story.BEHIND THE LECTERN
Edmond Chang- A Lifelong Wanderer▶ WANDERER , from page 6
Oliver  kel ton  okelton@ucsd.edu
Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd.eduThe San Diego Architectural 
Foundation recently awarded UC San 
Diego’s Spanos Athletic Performance 
Center an “Orchid” for its architecture. 
Orchids & Onions is an entity within the 
SDAF that annually recognizes spaces for their 
architecture and interior design — Orchids 
are awarded for excellence and Onions for 
mediocre designs. Last year, 2016, was the 
40th anniversary for Orchids & Onions.
The public nominates projects, and a jury, 
mainly comprised of professional architects 
and designers, selects the final nominees. 
Then, the public has the opportunity to 
vote online for the “People’s Choice Orchid               
& Onion. ” 
SDAF board member Suzanne Clemmer 
praised the Center for its “function” and 
“playful elevations.”
“The jury appreciated the way the architect 
merged the outdoor spaces, brought the views 
of the eucalyptus grove inside and skillfully 
hid the mechanical equipment, ” Clemmer 
said at the awards ceremony in Oct. 2016. 
“Well-executed, the building exhibits nuanced 
detailing with the addition of the yellow 
sunscreens, concrete reliefs and the adroit 
placement of windows to break down the 
scale of the building. As one juror noted, the 
building ‘exhibits strength with the concrete 
but doesn’t feel heavy or cavernous. It is 
muscular, yet humble. ’ Another noted it was ‘a 
building that will age gracefully and serve the 
UCSD community for years to come. ’” 
Principal architect for UCSD, Matthew Smith, works on capital improvement projects 
for Triton Athletics, including the Spanos 
Athletic Performance Center. Smith and the 
other architects involved with this project, 
including members from the Facilities Design 
& Construction team, worked closely with the 
Athletics Department to establish a UC San 
Diego Triton Athletics brand that aligns with 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla’s overall vision of 
“one institution, one university.”
“We’re most successful when we are 
working closely with our clients to identify 
what their vision is and understand the sort 
of things that they are trying to achieve, 
beyond the bricks and mortars, ” Smith told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Triton Athletics has 
been pushing toward the Division-I transition, 
and they are trying to make sure that they 
have the requisite facilities to deliver that. In 
their minds, athletics provides a banner under 
which universities can gather. ” 
Smith, who also managed the Triton 
Ballpark project, explained that, through these 
projects, he and Triton Athletics wanted to 
institute an “architectural language” unique to 
UCSD athletics. 
“There’s a difference between UCLA 
blue and UC San Diego blue, ” Smith said. 
“It requires finesse to incorporate it into 
architecture. To be a good architect or to lead 
a good project [requires] making a house a 
home, so to speak. ”
The university also worked with Hanna 
Gabriel Wells, a studio of architecture, site and 
interior design, to further the vision of the Spanos Athletic Performance Center. Project 
architect for this space, Sean Chen, was tasked 
with creating a design that mimicked the 
function of the space. 
“We were inspired by a simple request 
from Wendy Taylor, the deputy director of 
athletics, ” Chen told the Guardian. “She asked 
us to ‘make sure the walls are strong enough 
to take the pounding of the medicine balls. ’ 
This request became the starting point of the 
design — strength and movement. ” 
Additionally, UCSD has been working 
toward implementing sustainable practices, 
a practice that Hanna Gabriel Wells and its 
architects also value. The building has been 
certified gold, the second highest achievement 
for sustainable buildings, by the Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design, which 
is part of the U.S. Green Building Council. 
Sustainable design decisions include a plethora 
of natural lighting, low to zero volatile organic 
compounds in the interior finishes, low-water 
plumbing and LED lights throughout. 
Though the design is sustainable, it is not 
without function and aesthetic, according to 
Smith and Chen. Both worked closely with 
Triton Athletics to determine a functional 
design that would mimic the natural path that 
students take when working out. 
“The arrangement of the functional 
spaces from the weight room through the 
training court to the therapy room is based 
on [an] optimal training sequence outlined by 
Director of Strength and Conditioning Myles 
Cooper, ” Chen said. “Large openings facilitate unobstructed movement between spaces. 
W alls are constructed of sculpted concrete 
because of the material’s durability and visual 
strength. The rhythmic pattern of the facades 
echo the kinetic quality of the facility. ”
One of the goals of the SDAF is to educate 
people about spaces like Spanos so that 
they can determine what is to be valued in 
their communities. These spaces, with their 
outstanding architecture and sustainable 
design, show what is valuable to the city.
“In a way Orchids & Onions is just as 
much about educating the public as it is 
educating the urbanists, designers and city 
planners” SDAF Director Perriann Hodges 
said to the Guardian. “Educating the public is 
crucial because the public does [have] a say in 
their community. ”
What the public does not see, however, is 
the story, from conception to completion, of 
this project. Smith and Chen both noted that 
that is what makes this space special. 
“Winning the award is as much about the 
story as it is about a beautiful building, ” Smith 
said. “To be a world-class institution, you need 
to have world-class facilities. … To meet those 
lofty goals that exceed the client’s expectations, 
that whole story is what wins the award. ” 
UCSD has won other Orchids for its 
architecture and interior design, including 
the Structural and Nanomaterials Engineering 
building and the interior of Galbraith Hall.
photo by Kenji Bennett//UCSD GuardianA  for 
 ArchitectureIt all starts with a spark. 
And then come the butterflies. 
Euphoria. Intense emotion. You 
begin to think they’re the one. 
Love is one of the most well-studied 
phenomena in virtually any subject, yet 
people are still in the dark about a good 
portion of its magic. Whittling down 
the definition of this powerful word 
into a few sentences seems impossible, 
but that hasn’t stopped us from trying                  
for centuries. 
Researcher Helen Fisher tackled the 
biological definition. She was interested 
in how love affects brain activity, so 
in 2005, Fisher and her colleagues put 
undergraduates who had self-identified 
as being “madly in love” into an fMRI 
machine. Fisher found that the caudate 
nucleus, a region of the brain associated 
with reward detection, expectation 
and learning — specifically how past 
experiences affect future behaviors — 
lit up when the students were shown 
pictures of their lovers. However, 
another section of the brain, the ventral 
tegmental area, also showed activity. The 
VTA, as it is called, plays an important 
role in the reward circuit of the brain: 
It sends dopamine, a neurotransmitter 
heavily related to pleasure, forward 
to the nucleus accumbens. The most 
interesting part is that this circuit is 
primitive, meaning that romantic                            
love is both evolutionarily old and 
incredibly addictive.  
Other chemicals are also associated 
with love. Stress hormones, cortisol and 
adrenaline levels increase and cause the 
quickening heartbeat, sweaty palms and 
anxiety related to seeing your significant 
other. Serotonin decreases, leading to 
feelings of insanity — all you can do 
is think about that person. When the 
initial passion of love fades, oxytocin 
and vasopressin come into play, creating 
feelings of attachment that produce 
long-term relationships. 
While a comprehensive explanation 
of love, the biological definition 
only surfaced in recent years due to 
advances in science and technology. In 
earlier centuries, people had to make 
inferences about what love was based on    
experience alone. 
Philosophic definitions of love 
date back to ancient Greece. These 
philosophers separated love into four 
types: storge (affectionate love), philia 
(friendship), agape (spiritual love) and eros (passionate love). The idea of a 
“one-true love” originated with Plato. 
He believed that the soul was originally 
split apart into two, one half taking the 
physical form of a man and the other of a 
woman. It is our destiny to reunite with 
our so-called “twin flame, ” and there is 
nobody else in the world meant for us. 
Much of popular media now, especially 
the movie industry, deals with finding 
true love. One argument believes that 
this gives people an unrealistic picture 
of love, whereas another believes that it 
makes the search more romantic — either 
way, Plato’s idea is still controversial to 
this day. 
On another note, Sigmund Freud was 
one of the first psychologists to examine 
love. His notorious Oedipus complex 
theory proposed that male children were 
sexually attracted to their mothers and 
wished death on their fathers. Female 
children develop something similar 
for the opposite parent, called the 
Electra complex. His work was largely 
controversial and was largely discounted 
— nobody wants to think of kids as 
sexual and incestual — but Freud was 
incredibly important in establishing 
a psychological basis for love. Some 
people may now believe that a version of 
these complexes are why people tend to 
marry partners similar to their parent of 
the opposite sex. 
Humanist Abraham Maslow’s 
hierarchy of needs offers a different 
definition. Maslow identifies love as a 
human need after physiological needs 
(food and water) and safety needs 
(security and stability). This could 
explain why people choose to stay in 
relationships even if they may no longer 
be in love. There have been many cases 
of adults who are together only “for 
the kids” or because they would not 
be financially sound after a divorce. 
Maslow’s view changes the definition 
of a relationship and argues that love 
is not the main priority when safety                    
is involved. 
No matter your definition, all people 
recognize that love is a very real thing 
that manifests itself on a daily basis 
through actions both large and small. 
Our society is obsessed with love, and as 
long as people experience it, we will seek 
to define it. 
A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKENDExploring the Biology, Philosophy, and Psychology of Amor
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Staff WriterILLUSTRATION BY SUSAN SUN /UCSD GUARDIANUCSD  Guardian's
Guide  to  Love
Apparently we must all be relatively 
sub-par in expressing affection on 
a more daily basis if there’s a need 
for a yearly reminder to mark the 
significance of our significant other 
(and all those friends and family 
members we shouldn’t forget either). 
Thanks to February 14th and the 
corporate drivers of our chocolate, 
flower, jewelry and Build-A-Bear 
industries, we now have an annual 
notification from Google calendar to 
remember to send a heart gif or two. 
Controversy from the commodification 
of love aside, Valentine’s Day is just a 
mere 24 hours away, so Lifestyle has 
a few last minute — unconventional, 
and perhaps unorthodox? — date ideas 
and eco-conscious gift suggestions 
for the enamored. And as any good 
student-run research university 
newspaper would have, Lifestyle also 
has a peek into the biological origins 
and psychologically insane perspectives 
of love. 
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor• Great training 
for the health 
profession!
•  MCAT now 
asks ethics 
questions!•  Ethics of 
enhancement
•  Euthanasia
•  Stem cell
therapy
•  Memory altering 
drugs
GO TO PHILOSOPH Y.UCSD.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATIONBIOETHICS MINORThe Philosophy 
Department is 
pleased to 
announce its 
new Bioethics 
Minor. Seven thought- 
provoking 
courses
taught by 
distinguished 
facultyLIFESTYLE                             T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  6 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
Ahhhh Valentine’s Day. The 
one day a year that makes 
everyone reflect on their 
(nonexistent) love lives.  So let’s say 
you are one of the lucky 50 percent 
of the population who has someone 
to celebrate Valentine’s Day with. 
Do you already have plans? Are 
they somehow related to chocolate, 
flowers, a stuffed animal or two 
and maybe dinner at a crowded and 
overpriced restaurant? If you said 
yes, I’ d hate to break it to you, but 
everything that was just mentioned 
is horribly cliched and, in some 
cases, wastefully unsustainable. Yup, 
that’s right. I’m bringing sustain -
ability and the environment into 
Valentine’s Day.  But before you roll 
your eyes and stop reading, I suggest 
you at least skim the column or read 
the TLDR at the bottom.
I personally have never cared 
for the tropes of Valentine’s Day, 
especially the idea of going out to 
a nice dinner the day of. Anyone 
who has ever tried getting a seat 
in a decent amount of time on 
Valentine’s Day knows exactly what 
I’m talking about. Every table is full 
of couples trying to make their night 
special, while their food takes too 
long to come out. An alternative: 
a home-cooked meal. What’s more 
considerate than actually taking the 
time to put together a meal for 
your significant other? You’ll save 
money, eat healthier, reduce waste, 
avoid crowds and generally make 
that other person feel a whole lot 
more special.
Food, of course, isn’t the only 
thing to enjoy on a Valentine’s Day 
date. No, not that. Get your mind 
out of the gutter. I was talking about 
alternative date ideas. Know what’s super cheesily romantic, won’t break 
the bank and helps the planet? A 
hike or walk through a park. Get 
some fresh air, and do it without 
dishing out dough. Plus, visiting 
local green spots helps support their 
protection and creation by showing 
the people in charge that they are 
worth having.  
Let’s talk gifts next. Do they 
really need another generic stuffed 
teddy bear? Probably not. As for 
those heart-shaped boxes of choco -
lates, Forrest Gump was absolutely 
right when he said that you never 
know what you’ll get. Chances are, 
you won’t like half of what’s in there. 
I mean, honestly, who actually likes 
coconut-filled chocolate? Plus, 
there’s all that plastic and cardboard 
used in the wrapping. Instead, try 
to come up with something more 
catered to that person. If you’re 
short on time, a card and flowers 
are  always good but, if you can, try 
to put something together yourself! 
Like a bookmark for your favorite 
reader or creating a collection of 
recipes you’ d like to try out with 
your favorite foodie. If you consider 
how the gift will be used, rather 
than simply what the gift is, I prom -
ise it’ll be memorable and not just 
another piece of random Valentine’s 
Day paraphernalia. 
TLDR as promised: Save money 
by cooking at home, hiking or going 
for a walk. And instead of buy -
ing that special someone something 
generically Valentine’s Day themed, 
focus on the experience of them 
using the gift. Hopefully this will 
help you come up with something 
truly different and creative that 
they’ll appreciate past the one day How to Live Your Life, 
by an ESYS Major : 
Celebrate Valentine’s Day in a 
More Meaningful Way
by Nadia Link | Lifestyle Contributing Columnist
If you’re short on time, a card and 
flowers are  always good but, if you 
can, try to put something together 
yourself! Like a bookmark for your 
favorite reader or creating a collection 
of recipes you’d like to try out with 
your favorite foodie
by Jocelynn Yang & Tara Nejad | Lifestyle Staff Writers
Drive to a romantic restaurant, proceed to go dumpster diving 
behind said romantic restaurant.
Buy Sweetheart candies, but throw them at each other to really 
show your love and support. Or maybe spit them at each other, 
longest candy hold wins.
Take her to Victoria’s Secret to try on some lingerie, but might as 
well get steamy right then and there because you both know no one 
is willing to pay $100 for three pieces of thread.
Get your hair and makeup done professionally. Don’t shower for the 
following week to maximize your expenditure.
Save some money by telling your significant other that you want to 
take a break the day before Valentine’s, but promptly come crawling 
back on the 15th.
Bring a pair of scissors to your neighbor’s front yard to make a fresh 
bouquet for your date.
Double date with that friend who scored a 10, then swap your six .
Shoot for free dinner. Scroll through your Tinder matches. Pick one 
and done.
Yellow teeth? Drink bleach!
Lower your standards to lower your disappointment.
Bring tupperware to an all-you-can-eat.
Browse Omegle until you find someone clothed This may take some 
time, so plan accordingly.)
Celebrate the good ol’ days of the recession. Go window shopping 
for grocery items, and light a match to stay warm.
Really surprise them by playing hide-and-seek, but get on the next 
flight out of the country. Double win.
Visit a Weight Watchers meeting with a bag of chocolate chip 
cookies and two boxes of pizza.
Jump the gate to a community pool, but bring your own bubble bath. Inspire your lover to a steamy night by bringing up how your parents 
are probably making love right this moment.This is it. This is the article you have been looking for. One of the many 
perks of actually picking up a copy of the  UCSD Guardian is this conclusive 
list of innovative date ideas that are sure to bring a spark to your Valentine’s 
Day. If this fails to work, just go buy some fireworks.
Whether you’re flying solo, taking out a special someone or meeting a blind 
date, it is perfectly socially acceptable to whip out this page from your back 
pocket and employ one of these outstanding schemes to an effortless night!
RIDICULOUS
RENDEZVOUSIn a rapidly evolving cultural climate, 
the arts rely on perpetual renovation to 
maintain relevance. The keen sense of 
inventiveness that artists often possess propels 
their craft forward. Among these artistic 
innovators is Kristin Idaszak, a playwright 
with an affinity for testing and transcending 
theatrical boundaries.
Idaszak found her calling at her childhood 
community theater. “I figured out early on 
that I didn’t want to be onstage, but the whole 
dazzling world behind the scenes captured 
my imagination and eventually became my 
profession, ” she told the UCSD Guardian.
Idaszak went on to earn her Master of Fine 
Arts in playwriting from UC San Diego. Her 
experience at UCSD was more transformative 
than developmental. Among her takeaways was 
a re-examination of playwriting rudiments. 
“Dramatic action, story, dialogue — simplicity 
is actually extremely hard to achieve, and it’s 
what I’m always striving for. ”
For Idaszak, the writing process takes form 
according to whatever project she’s working 
on, as her writing generally yields disparate 
plays. “Currently I’m working on a play about 
the advent of toxicology in 1920s New York 
City, so there’s a lot of research, ” she said. Then, 
the research lends itself to composition. “My 
writing process is primarily rewriting. ” 
Idaszak’s diverse works are united by 
a foundation in the contemporary human 
experience. Gender, race, class and sexual 
orientation aren’t so much subjects of her 
writing as they are context. “While I don’t 
write plays that are overtly political in nature, 
I’m very intentional about telling stories with women’s experiences at the center, especially 
queer women. Those are the stories I write 
because that’s the frame I’m coming from, ” she 
explained. 
Concerning character creation, Idaszak told 
the Guardian, “For me, plays tend to start 
with a milieu, and then I start to figure out 
who are the people who populate that milieu. ” 
She emphasized the importance of crafting 
characters with complex personhood in order 
to reflect reality. “I think people, in the world, 
are so capricious that I always think it’s a little 
strange when someone says, ‘That’s not in 
character. ’”
For Idaszak, a compelling play is one that 
reinvents conventional structure and creates 
an immersive, inclusive experience for the 
audience. “I think it’s really important for me, 
when I see a play, to be part of the community 
that exists in the theater that night, ” she said. 
She admires work that transcends the 
standard separation between audience and 
performance and values daring artistic choices. 
“I also really love work that lives at the extremes 
of simplicity and spectacle, ” she added. “I tend 
to respond to work that’s pushing its own 
limits. ”
Among her favorite plays are “Gatz” by 
Elevator Repair Service for its boldness and “Soft 
Goods” by Karen Sherman, a form-bending 
dance theatre work. In addition, “‘Passion Play’ 
by Sarah Ruhl has a special place in my heart — 
I worked on that play at a really pivotal juncture 
in my life, and it left an indelible impression on 
me, ” she said. 
Idaszak has recently been exploring the 
realm of dance theatre. In 2014, she met dance theater artist Erin Tracy, and the two have since 
become collaborators. “We’re always trying to 
get at the question, where does a work begin? 
What’s the first impulse? Is it language, or can 
it come before language?” Idaszak mused. Their 
latest work, which premiered at the La Jolla 
Playhouse, is “Though It May Shift, ” directed 
by Tracy and featuring a mosaic of dancers, 
musicians and writers. Idaszak used language 
to mimic the abstract communicative powers of 
choreography. “Starting out, I don’t know how 
to do that or necessarily what that even means. 
The writing process is a voyage of discovery, ” 
she said.
Her advice for aspiring playwrights: “Read 
everything you can. See everything you can. ” 
She advocated developing interests in and 
outside of theater and finding collaborators. 
“Then, I think it’ s about persistence, ” she added.
Idaszak’s work is largely devoted to 
confronting intimidating and potentially 
impenetrable subject matter. When asked how 
she approaches the ineffable, Idaszak explained 
that she believes in using humor and joy as 
mechanisms for storytelling in addition to the 
philosophical questions she poses in her plays. 
“I think the great joy and challenge of writing 
for the theater is using all the tools at our 
disposal — spectacle, language, music, silence, 
movement, the collective presence of artist 
and audience — to get at the things that exist 
beyond our ability to name them, ” she said.
—   Ma y a  Kleiman
Contributing WriterUCSD alumna Kristin Idaszak 
is expanding the parameters 
of theater with audacious, 
honest craftsmanship.Behind the Curtain with 
Kristin Idaszak
PHOTO COURTESY OF JIM CARMODY10                                  T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J A N U A R Y  3 0 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&EA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
John Wick: The mere mention 
of his name sends a shiver down 
the spine of anyone who hears 
it. Wick (Keanu Reeves), known by 
his nickname “The Boogeyman, ” is 
precision and focus personified. If 
he doesn’t shoot you in the head, it’s 
only because he’s aiming for your 
knees. When Wick seeks vengeance, 
he will make as many enemies and 
kill as many people as he needs to.
After finally getting revenge on 
the Russian who stole his car and 
killed his puppy, Wick is immediately 
pulled back into the fantastical 
world of elite assassins. Bound by 
a blood oath he made years ago, 
Wick travels to Rome to complete one final mission at the behest of a 
former associate, crime lord Santiago 
D’ Antonio. But D’ Antonio’s plan to 
kill Wick is an ill-conceived pipe 
dream which, of course, triggers 
Wick’s vengeance. With a bounty 
now on his head, Wick has the dual 
task of surviving an onslaught of 
assassins while satiating his hunger 
for revenge against D’ Antonio. With 
this plethora of thugs and bosses 
to fight, Wick earns his reputation 
as “The Boogeyman” once again.
“John Wick: Chapter 2” creates an 
opulent, neo-noir world which is as 
bizarre as it is immersive. The film 
takes the mythology and lore of the 
first film and expands it, introducing us to new rules of assassin society 
and new players in the game. The 
Continental, an upscale hotel serving 
as the hub for the secret society, 
is once again a central setting for 
the film. The first film established 
this fascinating underground 
world, including its currency and 
customs, thus allowing it to bloom 
in the sequel. “John Wick: Chapter 
2, ” with a longer run time than its 
predecessor, leaves enough room in 
between the action to explore the 
ins and outs of this modern mafia. 
The film opens with a black-and-
white Buster Keaton movie being 
projected onto the side of a building. 
Keaton, one of the pioneers of early Hollywood stunt work, signals the 
focus of the film to come. “John 
Wick: Chapter 2” is directed by a 
stuntman, and it shows. Every shot of 
every fight or shootout is focused on 
the action. Director Chad Stahelski 
does not rely on unnecessary jump 
cuts or shaky cam to convey the 
intensity of scenes and allows the 
audience to simply watch and 
enjoy the carnage. The camera 
doesn’t cut away from the expertly 
choreographed action. That is because 
in order to truly appreciate action 
spectacle, you must be its spectator.
Y et however aesthetic these scenes 
are, they are also exhausting. “John 
Wick: Chapter 2” follows a three-act structure, with a long action sequence 
defining each one. By the finale, 
you know most of the Boogeyman’s 
tricks. It’s obvious that no matter 
who takes up arms against Wick, 
they are going to die — most likely 
by a bullet neatly and accurately shot 
through the center of their forehead. 
At times, “John Wick: Chapter 2” 
begins to feel like a grind, but the 
feeling of repetition lasts only until 
the next campy character interaction 
or gloriously violent moment, 
something as simple and jarring as 
Wick killing two hitmen with a pencil.
 
—   Naft ali  Burak ovsky
A&E Associate EditorBuilding on the idiosyncrasies of its predecessor, “John Wick: Chapter 2” is a surreal symphony of slick violence and beautifully directed action. FILM  REVIEW
John Wick: Chapter 2 
PHOTO COURTESY OF COLLIDER
Starring  Keanu Reeves, Riccardo Scamarcio, Ian McShane
Release Date   Feb. 10, 2017
Directed by   Chad StahelskiB  12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
SEE PHOTOS OF DE CORATED OFFICES AT
https://as.ucsd.edu/contest/results /OFFICE OF
ADMI SSION S
FINANCIAL
AID
OFFIC E
EARLY
CHILD HOOD
EDU CATION
CENTE R1st PLA CE
2nd PLACE
3rd PLA CE
CONGRATULATIONS &
THANK YOU
TO ALL THE PARTICIPANTS &  WINNE RS!
HONORABLE  MENTIO NS:
Foundation Relations, Advanceme nt Operations & Campaign  
To set up an interview please  
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com   
or call Stefanie at 303-918-6109. Interviews will be held on  
Wednesday, February 22nd  
10:00 AM – 5:00 PM at the 
Career Development Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!For any comedy fan, the 
concept of HBO’s new series, 
“Crashing, ” is an exciting one. 
Produced and partially directed by the 
one and only Judd Apatow (“Superbad, ” 
“Knocked Up, ” “Freaks and Geeks”), 
the show centers around a struggling 
comedian, Pete (Pete Holmes), as he 
desperately tries to find various places 
to “crash” after his wife leaves him. This 
results in him staying with a different 
comedian each episode and allows for 
a variety of guest appearances, featuring 
performers like Sarah Silverman, Artie Lange, T.J. Miller, Hannibal Buress 
and others. These names alone are 
reason enough to give the show a shot.
The pilot begins with an awkward 
sexual encounter between Pete and his 
wife, Jess (Lauren Lapkus), in which, 
during a sexually frustrated frenzy, she 
asks to touch Pete’s “a--hole. ” The almost 
nauseatingly polite 30-year-old Pete is 
not on board and jokingly brushes her 
off as he leaves for his nightly stand-up 
open mic. It is apparent that the two 
have grown apart, and so, of course, it 
is no surprise when Pete catches Jess in bed with Leif, a free-loving, married 
man who Pete angrily claims has the 
appearance of someone with AIDS. 
“Looks can be deceiving, brother, ” 
an unphased Leif informs him while 
covering his junk with Pete’s washcloth, 
“because I do not have AIDS. ”
So, just like that, Pete is forced out on 
his own with no practical job experience 
besides a decade-old degree in youth 
ministry, vivid memories of his wife 
being sexed by Leif the third-grade art 
teacher and an unquestioned dream to 
make it big as a comedian. Until now, Pete has been supported by his wife and 
had no idea what he should do to find 
lodging, food or even venues where he 
could perform his comedy. Fortunately 
for him, he always seems to befriend 
someone just in the knick of time who 
offers him a comedy spot and a place 
to sleep (or rather, in Artie Lange’s 
case, it seems to be friendship mixed 
with the guilt of totalling Pete’s car). 
As with most Apatow projects, the 
show finds a familiar balance between 
humor and heart, and while not 
constantly administering gut-wrenching laughs, it manages to carry a comical 
tone throughout. While sometimes it 
does feel hard to root for a protagonist 
who has been working half-heartedly at 
open mics for something in the ballpark 
of 10 years, Pete doesn’t ever come off as 
a complete sad-sack. In fact, the heart 
of the show shines through the smiley 
naivete and small-town optimism 
that Pete maintains throughout his 
misadventures, never considering 
the possibility of giving up or failing. 
Although the show is written by 
Holmes, it is clear that the writer doesn’t 
save the funniest lines for his own 
character, but rather spreads the biggest 
laughs out among the various featured 
comedians. It is in this way that the 
show excels in the self-deprecatingly, 
honest fashion of a show like “Louie” 
— although much less dark and 
experimental. It brings about similar 
feelings of humiliation in the protagonist 
that seem to reveal something universal. 
Similarly to “Louie, ” “Crashing” also 
uses several minor comedians in various 
roles, helping to ensure that every 
character has a discernable, humorous 
voice — some standouts being 
George Basil and Aparna Nancherla. 
While it is hard to say that this show 
is spectacularly original or unheard of 
in terms of its style or plotline, it gives a 
consistently funny peek into the world 
of a struggling, young comedian who 
just wants a chance to make people 
laugh. So, if you’re in the mood to relax, 
kick back and have a friendly laugh 
with a goofy, self-effacing comedian, 
“Crashing” may just be your cup of 
tea (or coffee, if that’s your thing).  
 
—   Liam  Bass
Contributing WriterProducer and director Judd Apatow introduces the audience to Pete, a former youth pastor with a broken 
heart, who must take to the streets of New Y ork to pursue his dream of being a comedian.
TV    REVIEW
CRASHING  (season 1 )
PHOTO COURTESY OF MACALL B. POLAY FOR HBO
Starring  Pete Holmes, Lauren Lapkus, George Basil
Runs   Sundays @ 10:30 PM on HBO/HBO NOW
Created by   Pete HolmesB+  CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
DOVER QUARTET
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL  • $9 UCSD STUDENTTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 13 - FEB 192017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 2.13 WED2.15FRIDAY 2.17  • 8pm
THU2.16 get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE2.14
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - GREAT 
HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of the 
world in which we live. The Global Forum is a 
program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through 
speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
10am
INTERCULTURAL 
COMMUNICATION ILEAD 
WORKSHOP - BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST
As our world continues to globalize, it is essential 
to understand the basics of intercultural 
communication. Join us for a workshop where we 
will explore your own cultural communication 
style, the communication styles of different 
cultures, and learn more about tools and 
resources to further develop your intercultural 
learning. Presented by Grace Fuller, Outreach 
Coordinator, International & Out-of-State 
Students;Steffa Collins, Outreach Coordinator, 
International & Out-of-State Students; and 
International Students & Programs Office. 
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
2pm
UCSD WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. POINT 
LOMA - NORTH CAMPUS COURTS
Come watch your UCSD Women's Tennis team 
take on Point Loma! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
3pm
THE REAL WORLD CAREER SERIES: 
IT'S WHO YOU KNOW! - 
COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER 
This program will help you understand the 
benefits of networking, and how you can leverage 
who and what you know to make and strengthen 
connections that will help you obtain letters of 
recommendation for graduate school, land that 
interview, obtain internships etc. Learn how to 
ask for referrals and review networking 
etiquette.Don’t miss out! Presentation will be 
facilitated by Erica Eddings, Assistant Director of 
Career Services, Placement and Internships at 
the University of La Verne. Contact: 
vigonzales@ucsd.edu10am
OGA ZONE: VINYASA - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
An invigorating and dynamic style of yoga in 
which breath and movement are linked in a 
flowing sequence to create heat, flexibility, 
strength, and awareness. Originating from the 
practice of Ashtanga, this style is also referred to 
as “flow yoga” or “vinyasa flow” Led by FitLife 
instructor Rachel, this free program is on first 
come, first serve basis. Blocks and yoga mats 
provided. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
12pm
FINANCIALLY SAVVY: EATING 
HEALTHY ON A BUDGET - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Learn tips to eat healthy while staying on a 
budget! Presented by Christine McNamara, SHS 
Registered Dietitian and Debbie Kim, Zone 
Program Manager. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
JOIN THE STUDENT HEALTH 
ADVOCATE PROGRAM - STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES
Interested in promoting health and well-being on 
campus? If so, join our team! The Student Health 
Advocates are trained, volunteer peer health 
educators who educate other students on topics 
such as sexual health, alcohol, drugs, stress, 
nutrition, and more! Attend an Application Info 
Session to learn how you can apply. Visit 
http://sha.ucsd.edu for more information. 
Contact: eokamura@ucsd.edu 858-534-1824
7pm
FIND MY VALENTINE: SPEED 
DATING - THE LOFT, PC EAST
Hey UCSD Singles! Still looking for The One? Still 
looking for a Valentine? The lovey dovey day is 
upon us and we must be prepared! ACTA, the All 
Campus Transfer Association, has our back! Find 
My Valentine is an annual look to speed dating 
for UCSD Students only! The night will consist of 
laughs, food, and good drinks! Who knows, 
maybe you'll meet your special someone! Or you 
might find a new friend! Or you might just have 
a great time meeting a bunch of new single 
people to hangout with on Valentines day! This 
event will also be all-inclusive for the LGBT 
community. This is a FREE event for all UCSD 
Students, and dress to impress! Contact: 
rflahive@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: VALENTINE'S DAY 
GRAMS - THE ZONE
Spread the love with teddy graham cracker 
Valentine's Day grams :) Workshops are free; all 
supplies and materials provided. Space is limited 
and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
6pm
OPHD SEX IN THE CINEMA 
PRESENTS: LOVING - PRICE 
CENTER THEATRE
The motion picture is based on the true story of an 
interracial Virginia couple whose story became a 
landmark civil rights case that reaffirmed the very 
foundation of the right to marry. Trivia and prizes 
before the film! Co-sponsored by OPHD, the 
Library Diversion & Inclusion Committee, and the 
University Centers. OPHD Sex in the Cinema hosts 
films that highlight issues of race, gender, sexual 
orientation and other protected categories in 
popular culture. Contact: edalcourt@ucsd.edu
8pm
MANUAL CINEMA: LULA DEL RAY 
AT ARTPOWER - PRICE CENTER 
EAST BALLROOM 
UCSD Student + Dinner: $29; UCSD Student: $9. 
Employing overhead projectors, shadow puppets, 
actors in silhouette, and live music, Lula del Ray 
is the story of a lonely adolescent girl who lives 
with her mother on the outskirts of a vast satellite 
array in the middle of the desert. After a chance 
encounter over the radio, Lula becomes obsessed 
with a soulful country duo. Encouraged by their 
music, she runs away from home and into a world 
of danger, deception, and disappointment. Set in 
the mid-century American Southwest and inspired 
by the music of Hank Williams, Roy Orbison, and 
Patsy Cline, Lula del Ray is a mythic reinvention of 
the classic coming-of-age story. Audience 
members are invited on stage post-performance 
to interact with the artists. Join us for Valentine ’s 
Day Dinner at The Loft. Appetizer: strawberry and 
arugula salad with lemon poppyseed vinaigrette; 
Entrée: honey & soy-glazed salmon with 
mushrooms and peppers, vegetarian option: 
roasted portobello mushroom over sautéed 
spinach and peppers; Dessert: chocolate-covered 
strawberries. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
SAT2.18
BAJA ON HORSEBACK - BAJA 
CALIFORNIA
We will head southeast of Tecate, to the gated 
and secured guest ranch in the middle of 
Guadalupe Valley Grape Country, where you can 
try your hand as a “vaquero” (cowboy). After 
instruction in horseback riding, we will hit the 
trails. We will be Western style riding through 
shady oak groves, hidden water pools, quiet 
secluded valleys and vast mountain ranges 
throughout the 2800 acre ranch. Contact: 
adventure@outbackadventures.com
1:30pm
UCSD SOFTBALL VS. ADELPHI - 
TRITON SOFTBALL FIELD
Come watch your UCSD Softball team take on 
Adelphi! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
BODY + - COMUNIDAD 
ROOM, CROSS-CULTURAL 
CENTER
Ever felt uncomfortable in your own skin? Join us 
as we challenge constructs of ideal beauty and 
talk about the importance of creating body 
positive spaces for community.  Contact: 
esolisbe@ucsd.eduFRI2.10ARTPOWER PRESENTS
FRI2.17
11am
TIME MANAGEMENT 101 ILEAD 
WORKSHOP - BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST
Are you struggling with mid-year time 
management issues? If so, come to this workshop 
to learn more about how you are utilizing your 
time and gain tips for success.Presented by 
Melina M. Remesha, Coordinator of Student 
Activities, Revelle College. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
8pm
DOVER QUARTET AND AVI AVITAL 
AT ARTPOWER - DEPT OF MUSIC'S 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL 
UCSD Student: $9. The New Yorker recently 
dubbed the Dover Quartet as  the young 
American string quartet of the moment.   The 
group catapulted to international stardom 
following a stunning sweep of the 2013 Banff 
International String Quartet competition, 
becoming one of the most in-demand ensembles 
in the world. 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. This and that
5. Game with a 40-card deck
10. Meet head-on
14. Invisible emanation
15. Pretty up
16. Kazakhstan border sea
17. Spider-Man co-creator Lee
18. Makes every moment count
19. Aching desires
20. Start of a quote from the boss
23. Big gigs
24. Long-snouted fish
25. ‘’___ you pulling my leg?’’
26. As a group
30. Quote from the boss, continued
35. End zone marker
36. Cleopatra’s bane
37. What’s happening
39. Tailgunner’s position
40. Kerplunks
43. Quote from the boss, continued
46. Handel bars?
48. ___ de Triomphe
49. Goose the gas
50. From dusk to dawn
55. End of a quote from the boss
58. Tsk-tsk
59. 1836 siege site
60. Oscar role for Julia
61. Audition tape
62. Mortise mate
63. Sammy of the Cubs
64. Hamilton’s last act
65. Clear the board
66. Grounded commercial fleetDown
1. Kind of instinct
2. Go one better
3. Whip into shape
4. Rail inspector’s vehicle, perhaps
5. Do an injustice to
6. Pindaric practitioner
7. Exploding stars
8. Parker of ‘’South Park’’
9. Pulver’s rank
10. ‘’King Kong’’ star
11. Length times width result
12. Sends packing
13. Ernie of the PGA
21. Spongy toy ball
22. Pack down
26. Europe’s highest volcano
27. Deli side
28. Waiting room piece
29. Tolkien tree creatures
30. Pound sounds
31. Capital west of Stockholm
32. ‘’___ the Roof’’ (Drifters hit)
33. ‘’Battle Cry’’ penner Leon
34. Guitarist Paul
38. Phone drone
41. Gay Nineties sunshade
42. Fruit holder
44. 1962 Bond thriller
45. Gelidity
47. Take to the skies
50. Capital of Guam
51. Wheels for big wheels
52. Pita sandwiches
53. Lifting apparatus
54. Albacore and blue fin
55. ___ cheese
56. Like some excuses
57. Pirate or Brave, for short
58. Put two and two togetherLEGAL
Social Security DisabilitySSI - Been Denied 
NEVER Give Up Appeal Today Don t Give 
Up Thousands of dollars in backpay No Fee 
EVER unless you win Hearing scheduled No 
Attorney NEVER Go Al Free Attorney Advice 
Call for information () - Images and contact 
information on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 304329790 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Birth Defects Attorney At Your Service - 
Contact Us ASAP - NEWS ALERT: SEVERE 
WARNING ISSUED By The United States 
FDA (Food Drug Administration)! Popular 
antidepressants, SSRI’s and anti-seizure 
medications on the market today may pose 
serious side effects and permanent and 
potentially fatal birth defects in infants. 
If you think you or someone you know 
have experienced adverse effects or suf -
fered injuries after taking medications for; 
Depression Seizures Migraines Epilepsy 
Anxiety Disorder Or Many Others. Listing 
ID: 308816627 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Barrett Law Office - Attorney William J. 
Barrett graduated from Syracuse University 
College of Law and has been practicing 
since his admission to the New York State 
Bar in February of . His practice is focused 
in the fields of Family Law Matrimonial 
Divorce Law and the defense of individuals 
charged with crimes from felonies to traffic 
infractions.... Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305157106 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information FINANCIAL
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy $500  - Looking for 
Inexpensive Bankruptcy? At the VC Law 
Group, we offer free consultations and fees 
for no-asset Chapter 7 cases start at just 
$500.00. Please call our office at (858) 519-
7333 and speak to attorney Vik Chaudhry 
to set up your free consultation today. We 
are a debt relief agency. We help people 
file for bankruptcy relief under tListing ID: 
305984001 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Flat Fee Eviction Lawyers - Landlords, do 
you need quick, efficient and affordable 
eviction legal services? We can help imme -
diately. At the VC Law Group, we can handle 
your eviction proceedings timely and cor -
rectly. Best of all, we offer flat fees. Dont 
hesitate to call (858) 519-7333 to speak 
with attorney Vik Chaudhry and to sched -
ule your free consultation today. Listing ID: 
305138482 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
No Risk Investment - save for your future!  
- Looking for a low to no risk way to invest 
a little money in this unstable economy 
and earn interest? Whether you are saving 
for college, a new car, home, retirement, 
etc. the stock market is a risky venture 
right now. Profitable Sunrise is an estab -
lished and stable company that helps small 
business start-ups and they offer a per -
sonal investment option. Sign up today 
and receive 2.17% on your investment. Its 
not a huge interest rate because there is 
0 risk and your investment is insured as 
backed up similar to how a bank would do 
it. Start with as little as $10 or go up and 
do a long haul investment ($500 minimum) 
for a higher interest rate. I started with 
just $15 and have earned $0.66 in two days. Once you make your investment back 
you can reinvest to continue earning more 
money. Visit https://www.profitablesunrise.
com/?upline=Jenashlock for more details! 
This is NOT a MLM company, a get rich 
quick scheme, or scam. Just a no risk invest -
ment opportunity to help save for your 
future. Listing ID: 308816626 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condition. 
They come with a pelican case and ballast. 
They all have bulbs and some lighting 
accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. Perfect 
for tripods, light stand or whatever you 
need to ship. Professional travel case with 
wheels for easy transport. This is the only 
case to use for airline travel. It protects your 
valuable equipment and is easy to handle. 
Made from ABS plastic, this case is just 
about indestructible. Travel storage case 
is four feet tall and twelve inches in diam -
eter. It holds approximately six light stands. 
Listing ID: 306503235 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
Visit as.ucsd.edu for more information
facebook.com/ascucsdWant to get involved?
OUT OF STATE SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 11:59PM
PHYSICAL SCIENCES SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 11:59PM
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 12:00AM
OFF CAMPUS SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 12:00AMOPEN POSITIONSSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Coming off of its win against the 
University of Southern California, the 
UC San Diego men’s volleyball team 
were busy last week, playing three 
games at home. The Tritons beat No. 
13 Cal State Northridge but fell to 
No. 5 University of Hawai’i and No. 
2 Cal State Long Beach, putting their 
record at 5–7 overall and 2–6 in the 
Mountain Pacific Sports Federation.
UCSD vs. Cal State Northridge
The Tritons played a close first set, 
edging out their competition 27–25. 
The next two sets were easily won, 
however. A couple of kills from junior 
setter Tanner Syftestad and a service 
ace from senior outside hitter Ian 
Colbert sealed the Tritons’ win. 
UCSD never relinquished its lead 
in the second set, handily winning 
25–13. Going up 9–3, the Tritons 
solidified their lead early on in this 
match. The Tritons capitalized on 
Matador service errors and worked 
together to block the Matadors 
from narrowing their lead. Redshirt 
junior middle blocker Bryan Zhu and 
Syftestad worked together to earn a 
couple of blocks. 
Though the third set started off 
close, the Tritons were on a roll and 
ultimately won 25–14. Syftestad had 
14 kills in the game, six of those from 
the third set. Syftestad holds a game-
high 20 kills, but this quick sweep 
— the Tritons’ first of the season 
— prevented him from meeting that 
mark again. Junior setter Milosh 
Stojcic aided his team in earning a 
season-best offensive percentage (51.6 
percent) with his 31 assists.
UCSD vs. University of Hawai’i
Even though the Tritons had a 
couple of days of rest in between 
games, they were unable to defeat the Warriors, losing in three matches. 
The Tritons seem to like those 
close first matches, as they were 
neck and neck with the Warriors for 
nearly half the match. Unfortunately 
for UCSD, a couple of attack and 
service errors sealed their fate, as they 
lost 16–25. The second match was a 
similar affair, with the Tritons losing 
15–25.
UCSD put up a good fight in the 
third match, but there was no room 
for error. UH was a bit sloppy, giving 
away eight points to attack errors. But 
it wasn’t enough for the Tritons, as the Warriors won 25–23. 
UCSD vs. Cal State Long Beach
Even though the unranked Tritons 
lost to No. 2 Cal State Long Beach, the 
Tritons gave their competition a run 
for its money. 
In the first match, the Tritons could 
not keep up with the serves, as the 
49ers earned four of its last six points 
with service aces. The final score was 
25–14. The Tritons were looking to 
bounce back and narrow Long Beach’s 
lead, as Syftestad’s six kills in this 
match kept them competitive, but a 
service error at the end of the match gave the win to Long Beach (25–19). 
The third set was the closest of the 
night, but again, the 49ers could not 
be stopped, as the match ended in a 
25–20 loss for the Tritons.
Syftestad led the team in kills, with 
16, while Stojcic again led in assists, 
with 30. 
Next up, the Tritons will be 
traveling to Utah to play against 
Brigham Y oung University on Friday 
and Saturday. guard Beth Mounier. Going into the 
second half, it was anyone’s game.
The score stayed within a five-
point margin for the majority of the 
third quarter until Lee hit a three-
pointer to put the Golden Eagles up 
50–43. Cal State LA increased its 
lead to 11, but UCSD answered with 
a layup by junior forward Dalayna 
Sampton with 0:32 left to cut the 
deficit to seven.
UCSD continued to fight in the 
fourth quarter, trying its best to catch 
up to Cal State LA. The closest the 
Tritons got to tying the game was 
65–60 at the 2:59 mark when senior 
forward Cassie MacLeod put back 
her own missed jumper. UCSD was 
unable to come that close for the 
remainder of the game, and Cal State 
LA would take the game 75–69. 
"I thought we had a good week 
of preparation," head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer told the Athletics 
Department. "The outcome wasn't 
what we wanted; we didn't make plays 
when we needed to, but I thought 
overall we had good energy from 
some different players and we will 
continue to work hard to get better. ”
UCSD’s shots just didn’t seem to 
want to fall this game; the Tritons shot 
37.8 percent (28–74) compared to Cal 
State LA ’s 45.3 percent (24–53). The 
third quarter seemed to be where the 
Tritons struggle the most, shooting 
36.8 percent (7–19) from the field and 
zero percent (0–5) from the three. 
Mounier scored a game-high 24 
points; she seemed to have the hot 
hand for the Tritons, going 5–10 from 
behind the arc. Sampton earned her 
third double-double of the season, 
putting up 20 points and 12 rebounds. 
The Tritons will come back 
home to host Cal Poly Pomona on 
Friday, Feb. 17 and Humboldt State 
on Saturday, Feb. 18. Tipoff for both 
games is set for 5 p.m. ▶ W. BASKETBALL , from page 6
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduTritons Defeat No. 13 Northridge, End Streak Against No. 5 Hawai’i
UCSD had a busy week, hosting three games, losing two, putting its record at 5–7 overall and 2–6 in the MPSF.MEN'S VOLLEYBALL
BY  R o s i n a  g a r c i a
editor in chief
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSROSINA GARCIA  rmg008@ucsd.edu SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After a recent four-game stretch in which the UC San 
Diego men’s basketball team lost three of four games, 
the season seemed to have gotten tougher for the 
Tritons. However, the team has responded brilliantly ever since 
then: A four-game win streak has transpired with it recent two 
wins coming over the weekend. A two-game road trip to LA 
County ended with an 82–70 win over Cal State Dominguez 
Hills followed by a narrow 86–84 victory over Cal State LA. 
The Tritons now stand atop of the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association standings with a 14–3 conference record and, 
with only three games remaining in the regular season, they 
will fight to maintain the top seed. With the wins, the Tritons 
clinched a spot in the upcoming CCAA tournament and a home 
quarterfinal on Feb. 28.  
Game v. Cal State Dominguez Hills
A red-hot shooting display from the Tritons propelled them 
over Dominguez Hills on Thursday night, having never trailed in 
the contest. The dominant display from UCSD gave them their 
third consecutive win.
While the Toros shot a decent average on the night (47.5 
percent), the Tritons simply outshot their opponent with an 
incredible season-best 64.2 percent from the field. Additionally, 
UCSD had no problem from behind-the-arc as they drained 56.3 percent of their three-point attempts (9–16).  
UCSD’s scoring was led by 15 points from sophomore center 
Chris Hansen (7–9) and 14 points from freshman forward 
Scott Everman (6–8). Junior guard George Buaku added 11 
points meanwhile, senior guard Adam Klie had another solid 
performance overall with 12 points, six rebounds and seven 
assists in contributing to the team’s win.  
Although the Tritons shot lights-out, the Toros cut down 
a 25-point deficit in the second half to seven points, nearly 
completing an outstanding comeback. However, UCSD’s 
shooting ended up being too much for Dominguez Hills.
While UCSD head coach Eric Olen was pleased with the 
team’s offensive display on the night, he did not feel similarly 
about the defense, specifically in the second half. “We could have 
executed better defensively, but Dominguez Hills deserves credit 
for creating problems for us and fighting back. We feel fortunate 
to have held on and come away with a road win," the coach said 
after the game.
Game v. Cal State LA
UCSD once again continued its superior shooting over its 
opponents on Saturday night, shooting 51.7 percent, ultimately 
helping the team earn yet another victory. Cal State LA, similarly 
to Dominguez Hills, nearly pulled off a double-digit comeback win in the second half, but the Tritons did just enough to hold on.
The Tritons led by 14 points with under 10 minutes of play 
remaining but, near the end of the quarter with a few seconds 
remaining, that 14-point lead had disappeared into a one-point 
lead. The Golden Eagles had ended the game on a 31–18 run 
in order to put themselves into a dangerous position for the 
Tritons, but Hansen’s clutch free throws in the remaining seconds 
clinched them the win.  
Hansen filled up the stat sheet on the night with 24 points 
(8–13), 10 rebounds, one block and one steal — his fourth 
double-double of the season.
Four other Tritons hit double figure scoring, including Klie 
(15), sophomore guard and forward Christian Oshita (15), senior 
guard Aleks Lipovic (12) and Everman (10). 
The Tritons now return home to end the season with a 
couple of games. On Feb. 17 they will take on Cal Poly Pomona 
and Humboldt State on Feb. 18. With tip-offs set for 7:30 p.m., 
UCSD will attempt to end the season on a high note — given 
the upcoming postseason, the Tritons will want to have as much 
momentum as possible.  
MEN'S BASKETBALL
Back 
on 
Track
UC San Diego clinched a 
CCAA tournament spot after 
sweeping the competition 
this past weekend.
by Daniel Hernandez// Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIAN
daniel hernandez dah043@ucsd.edu
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team went up against Cal 
State Dominguez Hills last Thursday. 
The Tritons beat the Toros with a 
score of 67–49. The victory of CSU 
Dominguez Hills improved UCSD’s 
conference record to 14–2. With this 
record, UCSD remains at the top of 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association standings. 
The first quarter of the game saw 
a back-and-forth exchange of baskets 
between the two teams. With 0:31 left 
in the first quarter of play, sophomore 
guard Joleen Y ang scored a layup and 
gave UCSD a 12–10 lead. 
In the second quarter, UCSD built 
a lead that it would maintain until 
the end of the game. A jumper by 
sophomore forward Shandiin Armao 
followed by two consecutive three-
pointers by freshman guard Sydney 
Sharp propelled UCSD to a 12–20 
lead. The Toros were held scoreless 
up until the 0:50 mark of the second 
quarter when junior forward Joselyn 
Diaz sank two free throws from the 
line. On the other side, the Tritons 
would score through a flurry of 
jumpers and layups to give them a 
14–31 lead going into halftime. 
CSU Dominguez Hills found its 
scoring groove in the third quarter, 
amassing 19 points to UCSD’s 15 
points in the quarter. However, in 
spite of all its efforts, the closest 
CSU Dominguez Hills ever got to 
overcoming the Tritons’ lead would be at the 3:29 mark, when Toros senior 
guard Lisa Rhett hit a jumper to bring 
the game to 28–40. 
The final quarter of the game saw 
UCSD grow its lead to a 25-point 
margin. Two free throws by Yang 
brought the score to 63–38 at the 3:46 
mark. By then, it was clear that the 
game was over. 
“I am very proud of our win 
tonight, ” head coach Heidi Vanderveer 
said. “I thought we competed well, 
and it was an excellent team win. 
We will carr y this momentum into 
Saturday's game against Cal State LA. ” 
UCSD vs CSULA 69–75
The UCSD women’s basketball 
team traveled up to Los Angeles last 
Saturday to face up against Cal State 
University Los Angeles. The Tritons 
were handed a 69–75 defeat, bringing 
their CCAA conference record to 
14–3. 
The teams looked evenly matched 
in the first quarter; neither team 
could build more than a three-point 
lead. The final minute of the quarter 
would see a steal by sophomore 
guard Joleen Y ang turn into a three 
by freshman guard Sydney Sharp, 
bringing the game to 14–16. Cal State 
LA countered with a buzzer-beating 
layup by sophomore guard Christine 
Delapina to tie the game at 16–16. 
The second quarter saw Cal State 
LA develop a 15-point lead early on in 
the quarter. UCSD went on a run to 
bring the game to 37–35 right before 
halftime with an and-one by senior 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Mixed Results: Women’s Basketball Tops 
CCAA By One Game After Weekend Split 
Tritons have dropped two of their last three games after winning 13 straight.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSBY  R i c h a r d  L u
Contributing writer
SeeW. BASKETBALL , page 7UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
W. Basketball
Baseball
M. Basketball
W. Tennis2 PM
5:30 PM
6 PM
7:30 PM
11 AM2/15
2/17
2/17
2/17
2/18VS Point Loma
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Western Oregon
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Stanislaus State