University of California President 
Janet Napolitano announced the 
opening of a National Center for Free Speech and Civic Engagement headquartered in Washington D.C., according to a University of California 
Office of the President statement 
released on Oct. 26. The center will be funded by the president’s endowment and private philanthropic giving.
Napolitano noted in the press release that, at the moment, free speech is a particularly pertinent issue.
“Few issues today are more timely, 
or more challenging, than free speech on our nation’s college campuses, ” Napolitano said. 
Over the past year, free speech 
debates have permeated public discourse from the political sphere to university spaces, including the UC campuses. 
One such instance occurred 
last February when protests and violence erupted at UC Berkeley against former Breitbart news editor Milo Yiannopoulos’ presence at the university’s free speech event. 
Demonstrators believed that Mr. 
Yiannopoulos “alt-right” and “hate speech” messages did not align with campus values and  that he shouldn’t be allowed to speak on campus. While critics of their actions believed that their protests stifled free speech. 
“Our country needs an outlet to 
grapple with changing views on the VOLUME 51, ISSUE 6  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 6, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
ATHLETE 
SPOTLIGHT
Senior forward Katie 
O’Laughlin has been starting 
games for the UC San Diego 
women’s soccer time since 
partway through her freshman 
year. With her team fresh off 
of the regular season, she sat 
down with us for a chat. 
THE  LIST 
FAS H I O N    FEAT U R ESWomen  Speak  out
Style     TipsOPINION,  Page   4
Lifestyle,  Page  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The sale and purchase 
of breast milk would help 
far more people than just 
babies.  It would help a 
new mother make ends 
meet by allowing her to sell 
some of her surplus milk 
and simultaneously help a 
working mother from having 
to choose between the 
nutrition of her children and 
advancing her career. ”
- SUZANNE GOLSHANARA
ECONOMIZE IT
OPINION, PAGE 4
IN BRIEF...............................2
FEMINISM FOR ALL.......4
HOROSCOPE....................8
CROSSWORD .................14
W SOCCER.......................16SPORTS,   PAGE 1 6
MONDAY
H 85 L 65TUESDAY
H 83 L 63
WEDNESDAY    
H 80 L 63THURSDAY
 H 76 L 64
UCSD DroneLab 
to Test Different Types of  Drones in New Facility Near WarrenCAMPUS
The center allows the DroneLab 
to conduct research that would otherwise be regulated by the 
Federal Aviation Administration.
The DroneLab at UC San Diego is 
building a new outdoor drone testing 
center, with expected completion in 
early 2018. The new testing center will 
be a fully-enclosed cage that measures 30 feet tall and 50 feet wide, and will serve as a facility to test the DroneLab’ s aerial 
vehicles. It will be built near Earl W arren 
College, in between the Science and Engineering Research Facility and the Structural and Materials Engineering building where research balloons were 
tested in the past. 
The DroneLab at UCSD does a 
variety of research using aerial, terrestrial, 
and submersible drones to collect data 
and transfer physical objects, among 
various other tasks, in order to improve drone functionality and usage in disaster situations, such as natural disaster search and rescues. According to Falko Kuester, 
a structural engineering professor at 
UCSD and one of the engineers at the DroneLab, the goal of the lab is to mimic real-life situations as closely as possible 
for testing. 
Using the new testing center, the lab 
can monitor how the robots respond to 
or avoid collisions.
“[This testing center] will allow 
us to really test the next generation of drone platforms, ” Kuester explained. Researchers can test collision avoidance to make sure the drone knows what to do 
if it sees a human in a real-life situation, 
as well as swarming algorithms.
The fully enclosed testing center also 
allows the lab to run their tests in an environment that is not regulated by the 
Federal Aviation Administration. The 
FAA requires, among other things, that drones flying for work or business must be less than 55 pounds, operated in 
daylight hours only, and must remain 
within the pilot’ s visual line of sight. 
The DroneLab is a part of the 
Contextual Robotics Institute at UCSD, and is funded by Qualcomm and the 
Jacobs School of Engineering. The lab 
can be used by both undergraduate and graduate students participating in the research.
Kuester told the UCSD Guardian 
that “students who are interested in design and how to apply it to benefit the community at large” can work with the 
DroneLab to find new solutions.
Although this research facility seeks 
to find solutions that benefit civilians, 
some people argue that drone usage compromises civilian privacy and safety. The University of California participated 
in another legal motion this morning to preserve the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals policy, which President Donald Trump 
announced the repeal of in September. Filed along 
with several other organizations such as the city 
of San Jose and individual DACA recipients, the joint motion requests that a federal judge order 
the Trump Administration to continue operating 
DACA until legal proceedings seeking to reverse 
the repeal conclude. 
In the motion submitted to the U.S. District 
Court of Northern California, the plaintiffs argue 
that the federal government did not follow proper procedures, failed to complete the necessary question-and-notification process and did not provide sufficient justification for rescinding the 
program. The university itself filed around 20 
declarations from students, officials, and faculty across the UC system exhibiting the “harmful” consequences of ending DACA. 
DACA is an Obama-era policy established in 
2012 that offers certain undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as minors eligibility for work permits and deferred action on deportation for a renewable two-year period. As per Trump’s announcement, the program will be 
terminated on March 5, 2018. 
UC President Janet Napolitano, who was 
instrumental in establishing DACA during her 
time as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, denounced Trump’s decision to repeal the policy.
“ As a result of the termination of the program, 
the university and its students will lose the vital 
contributions that DACA recipients have made 
as students and employees, ” Napolitano wrote 
in a statement released by the UC Office of 
the President. “The civic life of the school will be diminished, the exchange of ideas will be 
reduced, teaching and research will be impaired, 
and diversity of viewpoints and experiences will 
be reduced. ”
This joint motion follows the university’s initial 
complaint on Sept. 8 for injunctive and declaratory 
relief against the Department of Homeland Security in order to prevent the termination of the immigration policy. 
Arguing that the repeal of DACA is 
unconstitutional, the Sept. lawsuit claimed that the Trump Administration’s decision violated due process and administrative procedures.  
“ As a result of Defendants’ actions, the 
Dreamers face expulsion from the only country that they call home, based on nothing more than unreasoned executive whim, ” lawyers from Covington & Burling, LLP wrote in the lawsuit. “The University faces the loss of vital members of its community, students and employees. It is 
hard to imagine a decision less reasoned, more 
damaging, or undertaken with less care. ”
Oral arguments regarding the university’s case 
will be heard on Dec. 20 by Judge William Alsup in San Francisco. By Lauren  hol t  news editor
The new institution will be located at the university’s Washington D.C. building near Dupont Circle.UC SYSTEM
BY Amalia Huerta Cornejo
Contributing Writer
BY Promita Nandy
Senior Staff Writer
President Napolitano to Establish Center for Free Speech
Mireya Ramos on violin and vocals for Mariachi Flor de Toloache at ArtPower’s Dia de los Muertos concert.
Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
UC SYSTEM
See DRONE,  page 3 See FREE SPEECH , page 3See DACA , page 3UC Motion Asks DACA Be Preserved During Lawsuit
PHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY  WILHELMUCSDGUARDIAN.ORGAtFollow Us2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Exchanging Pines sandwich for sexual favors. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org  
managing@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Aarthi Venkat
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent GaoAn unidentified UC San Diego 
student was arrested this evening by 
the UCSD Police Department after he was seen vandalizing room B260 of the CSE labs. According to eyewitness accounts and footage of the incident, there were students working on their assignments in the room at the time, 
but no one appears to have been harmed. Pictures and videos of the 
incident depict chairs and computers strewn around the room and knocked over on the desks. 
Varun Jit Singh, who provided 
an eyewitness account to the UCSD Guardian, explained that the student involved “threw computers off the desks and tossed computers around. ” Other reports note that he also used a skateboard to hit the monitors.
In a video recording sent to the Guardian, loud crashes and thuds can be heard from the hallway outside the room, behind the closed door. 
Campus police arrived on the scene 
and handcuffed the student. After the student was escorted from the area, campus police were heard telling the students working in the lab that the officers would retrieve their property so they could “get on their way. ”
The Guardian reached out to the 
campus police regarding the matter. However, the officer contacted declined to provide any specific information and referred the Guardian to Facebook. 
The severity of the damage, as well 
as the student’s motivations, are still unclear. 
This article will be updated 
online as the Guardian learns more information.
Unidentified Student Vandalizes CSE Lab, Attacks ComputersIN BRIEF
BY Promita Nandy
SENIOR STAFF WRITERThe extent of the damage to the computers and furniture is still unknown, as is the identity of the student involved.
Promita Nandy  pnandy@ucsd.eduAs drones become more commonly 
used by police departments, as part of search and rescue operations, and by 
the general public, there is concern that these unmanned aircrafts may disrupt 
everyday life. 
The San Diego Sheriff’ s Department 
began using drones during investigations earlier this year. According to a study from the Center for the Study of the 
Drone at Bard College, at least 347 state and local police, sheriff, fire, and 
emergency units are using unmanned 
vehicles as of April 2017.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
First Amendment and what these 
mean for America and how our democracy functions, ” Napolitano stated.
The primary goal of the center 
is to create a one-year fellowship for students who together with leading public policy thinkers, legal scholars, social scientists and other specialists will conduct research on free speech issues, according to the UCOP press 
release. 
An advisory board co-chaired 
by UC Berkeley’s Law Dean Erwin 
Chemerinsky and UC Irvine Chancellor Howard Gillman, both noted constitutional scholars, will help select up to eight fellows into the program. In addition to conducting research, fellows will also spend a one-week residence at one of the UC 
system’s ten campuses.A national conference held in 
2018 give the fellows the opportunity 
to “share their research and create an opportunity for elected officials, university leaders and others to come together to explore new approaches for engaging and educating students about the critical role of the First Amendment in American democracy. ”
The new center is intended to have 
an impact on citizen leadership by way of fostering constructive discourse and action.
The center “must also serve as 
a training ground for an educated, engaged citizenry — for leaders who will uphold our intrinsic democratic 
ideals while also helping us navigate 
a changing social and political landscape, ” Napolitano expressed. “Through the Center for Free Speech and Civic Engagement, UC will move the conversation to thoughtful dialogue and meaningful action. ”Napolitano stated that the center 
will additionally “provide a hub for activities and events aimed at restoring trust in the value and importance of free speech. ”
UCSD Sixth college junior Victor 
Alcantar, a pre-law student thinks that the new center “will have an impact on how individuals see the first amendment considering the recent 
acts like the UC Berkeley protest that 
went berserk so having a new center that can help make cases like this run 
smoothly and better is a benefit for all 
the community. ” 
The application for the center’s 
fellowship program will open on Nov. 
9 and is not contingent on enrollment 
at a UC campus.
Students Can Apply to the One-Year Fellowship Beginning Nov. 9
Students Interested in Drones Can Participate in the Lab’s ResearchAmalia Huert a Cornejo  ahuertac@ucsd.edu
Promita nandy  pnandy@ucsd.edu▶ FREE SPEECH, from page 1
▶ DRONE, from page 1Y edigaryan’s defense, explaining 
that the office’s previous associate vice 
president did not personally support 
her for the position and therefore did 
not transition her, leaving her in the 
dark about the details of the office’s 
operations.
After several motions and 
attempts to close the ongoing debate, President Figueroa moved to call the 
budget to question as it is and plan 
to work with it later on, adding that 
she would work with Yedigaryan 
personally. The motion passed, and 
the Spirit and Athletics budget was 
finally approved as is at $18,000 by a 
23–3–3 vote.
A recurring issue throughout 
the meeting was the concept of reallocating funds. Many senators 
and associate vice presidents were 
under the impression that money 
being used for a particular office 
could be reallocated anywhere within 
that office. 
One instance of this occurred 
when Helen Cao, associate vice 
president of Student Organizations, 
made a motion to increase the 
stipend for the Chief of Staff and 
special projects manager of the 
Office of Student Organizations. She 
revealed that she hoped to use the funds for programming interns and 
explained that the stipends would 
allow for “better management of 
funds we allocate to student orgs. ” 
When a new motion was made 
to reallocate funds already within 
the student organization’s budget, 
President Figueroa reminded the 
council that reallocation of funds is 
a decision for all A.S. senators, not just the associate vice president of a 
particular office. Unallocated funds 
belong to the entire pool of A.S. funds. Ultimately, the amendment 
passed and the motion to increase stipends was approved, increasing the senior associate vice president of 
Student Organizations stipends by a 
total of $500.
A similar problem arose when 
the All Campus Commuter Board chair objected to the $3,600 ACCB 
stipends budget, citing a plan 
to create a vice chair of internal 
affairs in addition to the existing vice chair of external affairs. Unlike 
the potential student organization 
interns, these positions had already 
been appointed by ACCB. When 
Vice President Arrollado announced 
that the new position would create 
a deficit, a motion was made to 
reallocate money from Tournament 
and Competition unallocated funds, 
a line item in the Office of Student Organizations. President Figueroa 
reiterated that the reallocation of 
funds is not one office’s decision, and 
Senator Tapia called out the sense of 
entitlement attached to the notion 
that funds belong to a single section. Still, the motion passed 21–1–3, and 
with that, the 2017–18 budget was 
approved. 
After the meeting, Figueroa 
reflected on the need for better transitioning of and communication 
with associate vice presidents. 
Concerning the numbers mishap, 
she announced plans to ensure that 
A.S. Council is receiving information “accurately and more consistently” 
via a more “direct communication” 
with the SLBO — an organization 
that A.S. Council pays full-time to do 
its paperwork. 
The meeting lasted seven hours, 
finally ending at 1:01 a.m.Oral Arguments Will Be Heard in December
▶ DACA, from page 1
lauren hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb 4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
AARTHI VENKAT
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Economize it
From the World Health Organization 
to the American Pediatric Association, the 
scientific consensus is clear: babies should be breastfed for at least one year. Despite the APA’s reports of breast milk’s “protective effect against respiratory illnesses, ear infections, gastrointestinal diseases, and allergies,” in America only 30.7 percent of infants are breastfed for 12 months. Mothers who cannot breastfeed due to health reasons or work constraints have asserted a large demand for breast milk that is simply not being met. On the other hand, a large number of mothers who do breastfeed overproduce milk, leading to a large supply that is being needlessly wasted. 
This divide between breast milk’s supply 
and demand is because it is a matching market, which is, as Nobel prize-winning economist Al Roth puts it, “a market in which prices don’t do all the work.” Currently, nonprofit milk banks and online transactions pick up some of the slack, but satisfy only a mere fraction of the market. Nonprofit milk banks get their milk from donations and subject it to rigorous screening, testing, and pasteurization processes. While such stringent protocols may be crucial for preterm or immune-compromised babies, they are not necessary for the average healthy baby and rack up prices to an average of $3 to $5 per ounce. Given that a six month-old baby consumes around 30 ounces a day, this is a significant financial burden for most families. If a parent is willing to assume the risk of purchasing completely untested milk, online alternatives such as Only the Breast offer far cheaper prices ranging from $1 to $2.50 per ounce. However, there is no regulation on the online sale and purchase of milk, making it more than understandable that it has not reached anything close to mass-market levels.
From a legal standpoint, breast milk is 
a food source and therefore allowed to be bought and sold. Legislation needs to be passed to create a standardized, scientifically agreed upon testing process for breast milk, perhaps even including it in the Food and Drug Administration’s jurisdiction. In this more or less free market, women could send their milk to processing facilities to be tested and sold. Of course, in such a free market, women of lower incomes should be still be able to get government subsidies for any milk they need. Any government investment in breast milk would be more than paid off in terms of future national well-being. In fact, when discussing a potential bill to provide free breast milk to infants in New York, the state’s own branch of the American Academy of Pediatrics stated that “giving the state’s 3,500 eligible infants donor human milk [would] save $10.5 million in direct hospitalization costs.”
The sale and purchase of breast milk 
would help far more people than just babies.  It would help a new mother make ends meet by allowing her to sell some of her surplus milk and simultaneously help a working mother from having to choose between the nutrition of her children and advancing her career. Motherhood is hard enough. Worries about providing breast milk to one’s child is something that can and should be avoided. BY SUZANNE GOLSHANARA // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
 The Inaugural Women’s March 
Convention took place in Detroit from Oct. 27-29. This landmark event included influential feminists like Nina Turner, a former state senator from Ohio, and Nomiki Konst, a reporter from the Young Turks. However, one feminist was driven away from the convention — Bernie Sanders. This should be alarming for anyone 
calling themself a feminist. Even though Bernie was not the sole speaker of the evening, he still was ill-received by many participants. Most of these self-proclaimed feminists argued that Sanders had no place being at the convention because he was a man. Bernie Sanders is a feminist, as seen through critiques of the wage gap and a pro-choice ideology being hallmarks of his political career. Despite this, many participants of the Women’s March Convention chose to ignore the fact that Bernie has promoted intersectional equality from day one. While in most cases those not 
affected by policy should not have a say in what that policy entails, such as how men should not have the ability to legislate what reproductive rights a woman has, the reaction by some feminists to Sanders’ support of feminism raises a dilemma of whether or not 
men should participate in the push for gender 
equality. As a male intersectional feminist, I would argue that everyone, including men, has a role to play in the push for equality for all, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, class, disability, and any other attributes to a person that are beyond their control. However, this includes a caveat: 
if men are willing to be vocal about their allyship to the feminist movement, then they must also be willing to actually listen to women. Men cannot fully understand 
the misogynistic struggles women face. 
Therefore, if they truly want to ally 
themselves with the movement, men must be able to speak up as well as listen to a woman’s point of view. Steps in this direction will lead feminism to be more inclusive, an issue 
currently pervading the feminist movement.
Many of the activists in the push for gender equality follow a “white feminism” narrative — an ideology that shines light on gender inequality for upper middle class, cisgender, straight, white women, rather than an intersectional feminism that uplifts women from all socioeconomic backgrounds. It is this mainstream brand of one-
sided feminism that hinders all progress of the movement. One can only be a white feminist if they come from a level of 
privilege where their gender is the only thing 
that defines them as a social minority. In sociopolitical movements, it is necessary to not leave anyone behind. When we address the issues of those who are most marginalized before our own, the statuses of everyone are elevated, achieving the end goal of equality. If we allow everyone to participate in the support of equality for all, then the movement for intersectional feminism has no other fate than that of success.  Feminism, at its core, is an equal-rights campaign that is of concern to everyone and requires the support of as many people as possible. This means that we, as feminists, cannot deny anyone the ability to ally themselves with our turn of the century equal rights movement. It is our job as concerned citizens to promote inclusivity in the struggle for equality. Because, without inclusivity, the feminist movement, along 
with all other grassroots movements, are 
doomed from the start.
Feminism, at its core, 
is an equal-rights 
campaign that is of 
concern to everyone 
and requires the 
support of as many 
people as possible.
Jacob sutherland  Jasuther@ucsd.eduLET’S TALK ABOUT THE LIST
On Oct. 24, UC Davis law student Raya Sarkar posted a list of 69 
Indian male academics who — according to crowdsourced complaints 
— sexually harassed or assaulted women.
Infamously referred to by news outlet after news outlet as “the list,” 
the post was inspired by the Harvey Weinstein case, in which dozens of women in Hollywood openly reprimanded Harvey Weinstein for 
sexual misconduct. The #MeToo Facebook campaign arose in the 
aftermath, designed as a way to shed light on the pervasiveness of 
sexual offense — and it spread like wildfire. CNN reported that over 
45 percent of people in the U.S. are friends with someone who made a post with the words ‘Me too.’
Sarkar created the list because the #MeToo campaign represents 
a shift towards open discussion about sexual offense and a growing 
readiness to believe the victim. The reaction to the list, however, has 
been entirely different than the hashtag. Indian feminists released a statement on Kafila, a collective focused on sociopolitical critique and 
engagement, widely criticizing Sarkar’s move. They demonstrated their concern that anyone can be added to the list without systems in 
place to validate these accusations, noting they “remain committed to due process, which is fair and just.”
This is a necessary response to the list. With no substantiated verification of these allegations, combined with the speed and range at 
which the list spread, the accused were highly exposed and suddenly 
questioned in the court of public opinion. Yet, by stating that the 
system is “fair and just,” the Kafila response circumvents the reason 
the list was created in the first place.
The list insinuates a striking lack of faith in the “fair and just” 
system. The justice system currently in place unreasonably interrogates women when they share their stories, demanding them to divulge every 
detail of their traumatic experiences through numerous and lengthy 
trials, all adding to the financial and emotional labor to the victims. This list is a response to a system that doubts and distrusts women, 
despite false complaints being far from the norm.
Furthermore, the list was created in an attempt to concretize and 
expand the whisper network — an informal network of women who 
recount their experiences with sexual harassment in order to protect themselves and other women. By expanding the concept of a whisper 
network to a public open forum, Sarkar’s attempt was driven by a laudable need to keep other women aware of these academics and their 
misconduct.
Finally, the list is an attempt to leverage the immense power of 
social media as a medium for protest. This is protest in the modern age;
See LIST, page 5 ▶BY AARTHI VENKAT
// OPINION EDITOR
GOT BREAST MILK?
Progression of Feminism Requires Support Regardless of Gender
BY JACOB SUTHERLAND  //  CONTRIBUTING WRITER
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
www.fafsa.govUse  UCSD school code 001317. .
Use  UCSD school code 001317. www.C alDreamAct.orgStuden ts who are U.S. C itizens or P erm anent R esidents
can su bmit the FAFSA on line at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who ar e not eligible to  submit a FAFSA,
can subm it the Calif ornia Dr eam Ac t Applica tion at:OR
Note:  You will be asked to provide 2016 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2018-19 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
If you need assistance, please contact t he Financial Aid and Scholarships Off ice at ( 858) 534- 4480.REAPPLY  NOW
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or
California Dream Act Application is MARCH 2, 2018FOR F INANCI AL AID 2018-1 9
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
one person cannot protest an unjust system without 
calling it out. And, with no other means to protest, many 
women fall silent — internalizing their struggles and 
swallowing their trauma, as women have done throughout history.
Ultimately, Sarkar’s list embodies women’s collective 
solidarity and faith in each other, which is an important first step. But the problem still remains that women 
are tip-toeing around the accused men, performing 
significant labor to spread information and actively avoid the predators. To shift the burden onto institutions with 
capital and political power, we know it is not enough to 
rely on the justice system, which disproportionately favors powerful men. Thus, the question arises: how do we take 
the advantages of the whisper network — solidarity, trust 
in women’s word, quick outreach — and formalize the process such that the men on the list can face necessary 
repercussions without intensive work of the accusers?
In this case, the collegiate system can create a formal 
network to report abuse, perhaps connecting the victim to others who accused the same person in order to 
coordinate and enable an unequivocal public claim. A similar or conjoint system could be put in place to help the victim obtain necessary resources to ease the length and 
demand of the process. These systems could manifest as a 
hotline, union, and professional (and impartial) third-party association. In any case, rather than relying on an innately 
and deeply flawed system, or posting on Facebook with 
little to no repercussions for the men involved, we must develop systems to leverage the formality of justice with 
the ease of a whisper network.
Developing such an intensive network between victims 
in a community can also broaden the scope of those who speak out. While Sarkar’s list did not include the 
names and explanations of the accusers, it would be understandable that many women — particularly those of 
lower economic and social stability — did not reach out to 
Sarkar for fear of exposure. The creation of a professional body can maintain a formal confirmation of anonymity 
and a further reach in terms of who is included in the 
discussion. As more victims are encouraged to reach out for help, and the logistical overload and public shaming 
of victims starts to quell, we can eventually see real and 
necessary 
repercussions for the guilty.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Company 157’s 24 Hour Playwright Festival is in many ways similar 
to a hackathon for plays. Siloed off in the difficult-to-find Earl Warren Room in Price Center is a small group of students busy 
trying to memorize a play written just the night before. Warren College junior and theater/public health double major Jenna Dern grabs her coffee cup and takes a break from the shenanigans to tell The Guardian all about this year’s festival.
The theme for 2017’s festival is commedia dell’arte — that’s Italian — 
popular in Europe throughout the 16th and 18th centuries.
“It’s a form of physical, highly theatrical comedy, ” Dern said. “It is 
based on stock characters, like Pantalone, and each of these characters has a physical walk. There are these comedic moments that go on between the 
different characters. ”
The Playwright 
Festival began at 8 
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 3. 
Dern explained how 
playwrights pick stock comedy situations out of a bag. 
“There’s one where 
one character is yelling for help; he needs help from the partner, who’s... a servant type character. So he might have a box 
that’s really full, and he’s 
asking for help to carry it, so when [the servant] comes in, instead of taking the box, he 
says, ‘Oh did you want 
more boxes?’ and starts throwing more on top. It’s like these really physical 
comedic moments. ”
Along with comedic situations, playwrights also pick out locations and 
characters. “One of them is going to be taking place in a high school in the 
‘20s… the other one is taking place in a nightclub that’s jungle-themed, ” Dern said.
Toward the end of the evening, the actors leave and the playwrights 
write all through the night. When the actors wake up early in the morning, the playwrights have finished the script. Then comes the grueling work of trying to memorize the lines.
“Last year, when we did Shakespeare, it definitely wasn’t fully memorized, ” Dern. “You can throw the script in a book… it’s very low stakes. If they have to get help, it’s not a big deal. But the goal is to have it be memorized this year. ”
When I walked into the room, they were in the middle of this process, 
and I was extremely startled by a student with a mask over their head. Commedia dell’arte is in fact characterized by the masks. 
“We had a workshop on Thursday with a Ph.D. student who specializes 
in [commedia dell’arte]. He studied in Italy so he has these beautiful masks that he’s allowing us to use, ” Dern explained.
There is a palpable sense of stress as well as playfulness in the air. 
Sophia Zaragoza, the artistic director, was visibly excited to share her experience of the festival and to get the word out to more people, but she 
and the other actors were also clearly on a tight schedule to memorize the 
script.
It all ends at eight in 
the evening on Saturday, 24 hours later. The 
festival culminates in a performance at the new UCSD student center, where they enact the 
scenes they’ve been 
working on for the past day. Each scene is about 10 to 15 minutes. 
This year, there are 12 
people working together to make the performance a reality. They have two playwrights, four actors, two directors, a 
stage manager (Dern), 
and a number of people from the executive board. “Plus, one of the 
playwrights is acting, ” Dern added.
For Dern, her festival experience and working as managing director at 
Company 157 has been great. “ All of these little events are really fulfilling as a theater major because I really do believe in helping as many people as I can [to] have opportunities. I also firmly believe you can learn so much 
more sometimes through these student orgs and jumping in and having a 
million responsibilities. It’s like a sink or swim thing. ”
These tight time frames may be too tough, or even off-putting for An under-the-
radar theater organization at UC San Diego, Company 157 continues its tradition of a new way to have fun with acting; it uses the fear of pressure and sleep-deprivation to generate creative, fresh and hilarious results.Theatrical 
Hackathons 
and  Sleepless 
Comedy
by Timothy Deng // Features Co-Editor
The constraints on time, I feel like, 
allow people to be really creative. 
They’re under some pressure and 
sleep deprived, but we read the scripts 
this morning; they were amazing!” 
Dern gushed excitedly. “We were like, 
they did this overnight? But yeah, it’s 
always a fun, rewarding experience 
when it’s all done.
SeeTHEATRICAL HACKATHONS , page 7
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
some, but it helps Company 157 achieve laudable results, 
just in a different way. “There’s a joint understanding that this isn’t going to be perfect. The constraints on time, I 
feel like, allow people to be really creative. They’re under 
some pressure and sleep deprived, but we read the scripts this morning; they were amazing!” Dern gushed excitedly. “We were like, they did this overnight? But yeah, it’s 
always a fun, rewarding experience when it’s all done.
Compared to UCSD’s well-known annual production, 
Muir Musical, Company 157’s festival flies under the 
radar. Furthermore, Muir Musical takes advantage of student resources and funding, while Company 157 has 
historically not used any. Dern does work at Muir Musical 
as well, and plays a similar role; she explained that Company 157’s financial constraints can actually produce fresh material.
“Sometimes not having money [means] you have to be 
creative; you have to make it work. And, ” Dern added, “for this type of thing, like a 24 hour play festival, it wouldn’t be realistic to apply for funding. ”
This year marks the tenth anniversary of Company 
157’s founding. Dern emphasized that the 24-hour Playwright festival, as always, is open for anyone and is all about creating new opportunities for those interested in theater.
At such a STEM-focused university, students 
interested in the arts often miss out on hidden resources, and possibly on UCSD’s multi-faceted successes. “Not many people know this, but the theater department for [graduate] school is one of the top in the country, ” Dern 
remarked. “Yeah, so it’s amazing because we have really, 
really talented mentors for us and actually in the past year there’s been a more formal mentor system that’s been set up between us and the Master of Fine Arts students. ”
Dern explains how this idea is further used to help 
undergraduates as well. “That’s kind of a tangent. We’re kind of like student producers, we try to let undergrad students have as many theater experiences as they can because… just because there’s so many of us as 
undergrads; our program actually doubled this year, ” 
Dern said. “Having student resources is really important, 
just to give people the opportunities to do stuff when they can’t necessarily do it through the department. ”
She also mentioned other upcoming performances 
that will be put on by Company 157 — like annual 24-hour play festivals, and a more full-length play festival that will go up in Week 9 in Galbraith Hall.
Dern points out the academic diversity among the 
participants. “Some of these people are theater majors. Specifically with commedia, a lot of us have learned about it in our theater history classes. [But] for most of us, this is the first time any of us are practicing this skill. [And] for some people, it’s definitely new. Perhaps they’re 
not theater majors and this is just a way for them to get 
involved. ”
Company 157 is more than just a group of theater 
fanatics putting on a performance to spice up their 
résumés. It’s an uncritical space that welcomes students 
regardless of their majors, to let go, build their confidence, and have an intense, 24-hours of fun.▶ THEATRICAL HACKATHONS, from page 6
timothy deng  tideng@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
FAC EB O O KIf we’re being completely honest, the “Thor” 
films are probably the weakest in the Marvel 
Cinematic Universe. Compared to the rest 
of Avengers, the god of thunder’s storylines are underwhelming and forgettable. Even “ Ant-Man” 
got better reviews than the first “Thor” movie. 
All things considered, it’s pretty remarkable that “Thor: Ragnarok” is now one of the top-rated Marvel films and actually made Thor cool again.
Ragnarok is coming. The prophesied 
destruction of Asgard is inevitable, but Thor (Chris Hemsworth) is trying to prevent it anyway. When the goddess of death, Hela (Cate Blanchett), threatens to take over Asgard, she strands Thor 
on the junkyard planet of Sakaar, where he must 
fight his way out with the help from unlikely allies like his mischievous brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston), the incredible Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), and bounty hunter V alkyrie (Tessa Thompson). Oh, and Hela destroys Thor’s beloved hammer, Mjolnir. Now we have ourselves a movie.Thor has always been an aloof superhero, and 
“Ragnarok” uses that to its advantage by allowing Hemsworth to flex his comedic muscles. He’s still badass and everything, but it feels like this 
is the first time Thor’s personality reaches its 
full potential. It’s also good to see Loki, arguably Marvel’s strongest cinematic villain, back on screen and outwitting everyone. And while the Hulk has gotten the most attention as a supporting character, the standout performance is definitely Tessa Thompson as V alkyrie. It’s a relief that the dull and one-dimensional Jane Foster (Natalie Portman) is absent from “Ragnarok, ” but it’s even 
more exciting that there’s a fierce, self-reliant 
female warrior holding her ground alongside Thor. Another strong performance comes from Cate Blanchett’s as Hela. Her menacing yet sultry presence is already intimidating, but once she kicks into full gear and shows off her powers, it’s clear just how much of a threat she is.
Right off the bat, “Ragnarok” establishes a drastically different vibe than the previous “Thor” films. Visually, the film is vibrant and colorful, thanks to the fact that it mostly takes place in Asgard and Sakaar rather than splitting its time 
on Earth. Director Taika W aititi (“What We Do 
in the Shadows”) also brings his eccentric yet refreshing sense of humor to the franchise. While the first two “Thor” movies were more somber, “Ragnarok” is unapologetically lighthearted and even absurd. It’s not as slapstick as “Guardians of the Galaxy, ” but the unconventional humor works well with Thor’s theatricality and charisma.
Of course, “Ragnarok” has its downfalls, but 
none of them are severe enough to detract from the fim’s enjoyability. There are moments when the humor gets in the way of storytelling and a serious tone would have built the plot better. The Odinson family dynamic could be explored in greater depth, especially in the beginning of the film when surprising information is revealed. In addition, Hela had the potential to be a powerful and unique supervillain, but her 
capabilities are  overshadowed by a mundane 
sidequest. And for a movie centered around the destruction of Asgard, “Ragnarok” spends the majority of its time on a different planet. Still, the strength of the narrative and characters make “Ragnarok” a thoroughly entertaining experience.
“Thor: Ragnarok” just goes to show that 
Marvel is still the leader of superhero films. It’s wonderfully absurd and entertaining, and it’s so 
satisfying to see Thor finally shine in his own 
feature film. Not only does “Ragnarok” erase bitter memories of the shortcomings of previous “Thor” movies, it adds to the overall Marvel lore and will get fans counting down the days until “ Avengers: Infinity Wars. ” Be prepared for Thor to be your 
new favorite Avenger because he’s worth the hype.
—   Ell ysa  Lim
Senior Staff Writer
I thoroughly enjoyed watching “Suburbicon. ” That does not mean that 
I think it is a good film. For all of the 
intriguing ideas from “Suburbicon, ” there is 
nothing that holds together this misshapen art 
project, which begs the question; what was it 
supposed to tell? Attempting to comprehend it leads only to frustration, despite some charming 
moments. It’s as if director George Clooney 
tried to glue a murder-mystery, a crime film, a historical drama, and a coming-of-age story 
all together without reading the assembly 
instructions. Clooney’s vision is unrefined and unrealized, a blot on an otherwise solid career.
The premise is disappointing; it has the 
potential to be great, but instead we’re left with a shoddy patchwork and an underwhelming 
sense of what could have been. “Suburbicon” is set in the growing suburban landscape 
of the late ‘50s, populated by innocent and 
pigheaded citizens contending with the end 
of white flight. A black family has moved into the neighborhood, violating their 
personal security against minorities. And 
then we’re rudely introduced to an entirely separate family, the Lodges, inappropriately 
interrupting a developing plotline in favor 
of delineating another. Gardner Lodge (Matt Damon) and his family are assaulted by a 
stout and slim duo who murder Gardner’s 
wife; he and the sister of his late spouse, Rose (Julianne Moore), fail to identify them during 
a police lineup. Another situation arises when 
a sweet-talking insurance agent (Oscar Isaac) accuses the Lodge family of insurance fraud, 
exacerbating the complexity of the narrative. And at the center of all this madness is Nicky 
Lodge (Noah Jupe), the unfortunate son of 
Gardner and bystander to a story with as much 
organization as a retail store on Black Friday. 
The execution is messy; the connection 
between each occurrence is tangential, at most. There’s an apparent intention that, as scenes pass, we’re supposed to find“Suburbicon”’s 
incredibly basic drama and irony fascinating. 
The film lists the Coen Brothers as contributors, after all, but draws on none of their spark or wit. 
Most of the film follows Nicky’s perspective as 
he spectates the various atrocities and felonies that his family and the people around him 
commit. His new black neighbors are racially 
harassed, his father and Rose scheme to run away to Aruba, criminals enter his home and 
attack his family; Nicky’s inability to influence the outcome of these events is supposed to be 
a source of conflict, but this is compromised by 
his jaded outlook and the mishmash of other 
characters and plots that require development. 
Perhaps sadder is that some characters don’t 
receive much development at all; Nicky’s uncle Mitch (Gary Basaraba) is slated to be a nice 
tough guy, but he barely receives screen time 
outside of a few kind words and implicit threats. The insurance agent that arrives to blackmail 
the Lodge family wears a veneer of courtesy, 
but switches to brash abruptly, making his death unceremonious and totally expected. 
Anything that is supposed to redeem 
“Suburbicon” as a drama falls flat. While its comedy provides a few laughs, it fails to 
make up for the film’s lack of organization. 
Watching a fire truck appear on-screen for five seconds before seeing it return 15 minutes 
later to crush an unsuspecting driver is jarring 
and slightly amusing, as is watching Damon drive a tricycle away from the wreckage. But 
such humor is banal and at times juvenile, 
disrupting the flow of an already flawed movie. Stylistically, “Suburbicon” looks great and its 
cast displayed superb acting. It definitely looks 
like late-‘50s America, with white-picket fences, conservative clothing, and antique televisions. The cast does well to bear with the lackluster 
material Clooney has given them; Damon 
especially gives a great performance as the head of a household on the verge of collapse. 
It’s simply unfortunate that such talent goes 
to waste in a film of what-could have-been. 
Still, I’m left with a nagging sensation; why 
did I enjoy the film, for all that it sinned and failed to achieve? I believe it’s my familiarity with and love for films by the Coen Brothers. 
The signature style of a Coen Brothers movie 
is evident in “Suburbicon, ” and it may make my score a little too forgiving. However, it’s a far cry 
from the masterpieces produced several years 
before, making the decision to allow Clooney to direct one of their old scripts questionable. 
—   Da vid  De  Leon
Senior Staff Writer
sjhrksdj fhgkasjfgh
All of the ingredients for a clever film, without the cleverness.FILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWThor: Ragnarok
SuburbiconPHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL STUDIOS
PHOTO COURTESY OF PARAMOUNT PICTURES
Directed By   Taika Waititi
Starring  Chris Hemsworth, Tom Hiddleston, Cate Blanchett, Mark Ruffalo
Release Date  Nov. 3, 2017
Rated  PG-13
Directed By   George Clooney
Starring  Matt Damon, Julianne Moore, Oscar Isaac, Noah Jupe, Glenn Fleshler
Release Date  Oct. 27, 2017
Rated  RA-
C-A&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKENDA summer album released at the end of 
October? It’s unusual, but when has alt-rock band Weezer ever been anything but? 
After the 2016 “White Album, ” fans doggedly 
expected an accompanying “Black Album, ” which 
hinted at a revival of Weezer’s famed “Pinkerton” 
days. But, as it turns out, the band had more in store, and released “Pacific Daydream” on October 27, 2017. With gorgeous cover art, a solid name, and music distinctively unlike anything they have done before, “Pacific Daydream” marks the 25-year-old band’s 12th official album.
Filled with breezy love tunes dedicated to 
California, “Pacific Daydream” is a concept album not unlike the previous “White Album, ” but time will show whether fans take to it or not. After a number of underperforming, radio-catering 
albums released during its post-”Pinkerton” era, 
Weezer promised to return to its rock roots — “back to the shack, ” as the band called it — and it promptly delivered with “Everything Will Be Alright in the End” and the Grammy-nominated “White Album. ” But “Pacific Daydream, ” which incorporates more pop than usual for the band, may be a wake-up call to long-time Weezer fans: they may not have truly moved on.
The album begins strongly with the slick 
electric guitar riffs and the summer-soaked vibes of “Mexican Fender. ” It’s admittedly underwhelming on  first listen, but if any of the songs off this album are to be mainstream hits, this one is a worthy contender, with catchy drum beats and solid rock vibes. It’s faintly reminiscent of older Weezer songs but slips on the lyrics, sliding into 
disappointingly average summertime pop fodder.
Carrying on the beach theme like a blazing 
torch, “Beach Boys” revs out husky bass chords 
and oozes images of hot, sandy beaches. Its lyrics, however, deliver little substance with bumbling, gawky lines like, “it’s the Beach Boys / making my eyes get moist. ” Weezer has a well-placed reputation for quirky lyrics, but lines on “Pacific Daydream” feel out of place — and not in the 
band’s usual lovably-silly, poetically-awkward way.
The infamous “Feels Like Summer” follows, 
and out of the entire album, this is the most 
controversial track. Released as a single months ago, it immediately met mixed reactions. The song’s reliance on hollow synthesizers has led some to accuse the band of pandering to mainstream music. But it worked; the song reached number two on the “Billboard Alternative Songs” chart. 
This wasn’t the Weezer the fanbase had come to 
love — or at least, accept — and the song created apprehension for the rest of the album’s songs.
“Happy Hour” and “Weekend Woman” add to the mix of so-far relatively lackluster songs. They’re all certainly not “bad, ” especially on subsequent listens, but they’re more-or-less forgettable and indistinguishable from one another. The album goes beyond a consistent theme; it has an entire 
tracklist of nearly-identical tunes and lyrics.
But when the first few notes of “QB Blitz” 
come in, it’s evident that this is what fans 
wanted from the album. The song, coat-tailing off of the youth and freshness from “White Album, ” harnesses frontman Rivers Cuomo’s aching voice — a welcome, familiar sound in this new territory of music, with “Pinkerton”-esque guitar strumming. The second half of the album picks up from here, with “Sweet Mary, ” a classic Weezer love song with nice production, and “Get Right, ” a safe, if generic, addition with 
an earworm of a chorus. “La Mancha Screwjob” 
is another one of the album’s more-pop-than-rock songs, but its execution, compared to the others, is better, with a decent dance rhythm.
The 10-song album finishes off cleanly with 
“ Any Friend of Diane’s. ” It’s upbeat, like the rest of the album, but surprisingly moodier and darker in its lyrics. With somber lines like, “ And she got sick one day / I still have the map she 
drew for me, ” this unexpected extra depth of 
vulnerability calls back to the band’s older, much-beloved songs, and the song is a tantalizing hint to where Weezer plans to go in the future.
No, the band has not been able to create 
a second “Pinkerton” yet. “Pacific Daydream” and “Pinkerton” may both showcase sounds and styles unusual for both Weezer fans and 
ordinary listeners, but “Pacific Daydream” 
ultimately lacks the raw emotional brevity that eventually turned “Pinkerton” from a hated album into a hailed cult classic to be played over and over in the garages of suburban ‘90s kids.
But, some may argue, is it fair to compare 
Weezer’s recent works with an album that came out over 20 years ago? Trying to relive the glory days may be a stretch, but it’s clear that the band 
doesn’t think so. Its effort is admirable as the 
band continues to churn out music after music until the right one sticks. “Pacific Daydream” feels 
like a filler — before something much greater.
—   Natalie  Tran
 Contributing WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Now, when “Stranger Things” first 
premiered in 2016, people were 
absolutely enthralled by the show’s 
nostalgic ‘80s pastiche of sci-fi thriller, iconic 
D&D references, old-school fashion and 
music, and most importantly, the ensemble 
of outcast, bike-riding youngsters. Evoking a traditional ’80s period while extending into its own modern phenomenon, the series 
became like lightning in a bottle. A fearful 
suspicion followed; could the sequel live up to the howling success of its predecessor?
In short, “Stranger Things 2” does not, 
but it is still nicely polished in a grand yet satisfying manner, catering to the popular 
’80s zeitgeist. This follow-up is darker 
and — dare I say it — stranger. Following the gang’s discovery of the Upside Down and battle with the menacing Hawkins 
Laboratory, each member has grappled 
with post-seasonal trauma. One unexplored character, Will Byers (Noah Schnapp), also 
plays a larger, more ominous role as his 
lingering consequences from the Upside Down spastically and repeatedly transport him into the dreary dimension, exposing 
him to a towering, shadow monster. But, 
with renewed unity and a spiked baseball bat, the ragtag team of Hawkins attempt to 
permanently expel this new supernatural 
threat from infiltrating their home. 
Each episode of the second season 
expertly fleshes out the world of “Stranger 
Things, ” leaving us transfixed with the 
next twist and answer to the mystery. However, only one episode is out of place 
with the plot’s seamless choreography. 
This particular episode employs a drastic tonal shift, digressing from an otherwise 
smooth narrative into a nail-biting, climactic 
moment, where all hell breaks loose for our Hawkins party. Just as the story turns awry and our heroes are backed into a corner, 
there is an unnecessary 45-minute break 
that tangents off into its own perfunctory narrative. It is a conspicuous hiccup, or more 
so a slight wrinkle, in an otherwise decent 
plot, but at the very least, it exposes the viewer to a society beyond from Hawkins, an ’80s urban underground community with 
another band of misfits that will perhaps 
enrichen and converge future subplots. 
Although a fresh set of characters is 
introduced this season, including tomboy Max (Sadie Sink) and her meat-headed brother, Billy (Dacre Montgomery), their presence definitely does not direct the 
limelight away from our original, tight-knit 
group. Much of the show’s heart still rests on our emotional investment toward these 
established characters’ lives as we await 
to see Mike (Finn Wolfhard) and Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown) reunite or laugh at 
Dustin’s (Gaten Matarazzo) wisecracks 
toward Lucas (Caleb McLaughlin). As the story digs deeper, we concurrently recognize that these characters are not one-note 
personalities but layered individuals who 
surpass their archetypes. For instance, with Steve (Joe Keery) growing from douchebag 
jock to redeemed, sensible caretaker, we can 
recognize that “Stranger Things” attempts to do more than rehash old narratives. And with several odd pairings at the forefront this 
season, we can enjoy the possible dynamic 
and synergy between people of completely different social worlds and individual stories, 
which are also seen shining through the actor’s 
relations and charismatic performances. 
Paying homage to the ’80s cultural 
references, “Stranger Things 2” retains a 
familiarity that is almost like a semblance 
of home for the older audience. But while it recycles common yet traditional themes, 
it also diverges into its own cultural thread 
for the younger generation. As the second season becomes self-referential in noting 
its own adherence to classic, cherished ’80s 
tropes of thriller-drama, the purpose of the series is clear: to freeze a quintessential time in place to enliven a similar, 
contemporary charm from a bygone era. 
—   Ashley  Chen
Contributing Writer
Hang up the Christmas lights, blast The Clash’s “Should I Stay or Should I Go” and toast some frozen Eggo wa ffles because Stranger TV   REVIEW
Stranger Things  (Season  2)  
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Created By   The Du ffer Brothers
Starring  Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard, Millie Bobby Brown 
Release Date  Oct. 27, 2017
Rated  TV-14 A-
Pacific Daydream
by  Weezer
Release Date Oct. 27, 2017
Weezer’s polarizing “Paci fic Daydream” may not be what fans expect, 
but it features some listen-worthy songs.ALBUM   REVIEW
C-
The San Diego Asian Film Festival is back 
in town and celebrating its 18th anniversary. 
And now, SDAFF has invaded our very own UC San Diego campus for a sixth year in a row, with six new fantastic films in tow: 
“Who is Arthur Chu?” and “The Great 
Buddha+, ” “Mon Mon Mon Monsters” and “Small Talk, ” and “The Last Verse” and “ A Fish Out of Water. ” 
From Sunday, Nov. 12, to Tuesday, Nov. 
14, our Price Center Theater will play host to SDAFF’s Taiwan Feature Showcase, with Giddens Ko’s “Mon Mon Mon Monsters” serving as the festival centerpiece. Ko guides 
his skin-crawling thriller through troubling 
waters: teenage ennui, high school bullying, and, of course, the violence of a literal flesh-rending monster. 
“Mon Mon Mon Monsters” is slated to 
premiere at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday evening, preceded by a showing of “Who is Arthur Chu?” at 1:40 p.m. and “The Great Buddha+” 
at 3:50 p.m. Food and tickets are free for UCSD 
students with ID. If you’re left hankering for more, check out the San Diego Asian Film Festival’s website and 2017 schedule at: http://festival.sdaff.org/2017/.
Watch for next week — our annual feature 
on SDAFF with art from our talented staff, covering a host of films from the festival, will be front and center on A&E.  
—   Alicia  Lepler
 A&E Editor
San   Diego 
Asian   Film 
Festival10                                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  6 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Cups of coffee and Khan Academy have done their fair share in helping me navigate college, but 
here’s an ode to the seven garments that got me through UC San Diego. 
Black Pants
Trusty, tried and true — my one (and only) pair of black pants have been through every job 
interview, class presentation, and business-casual situation. It has seen its fair share of opportunities 
and disappointments alike, and has been to one too many mediocre occasions. If anything should 
be invested in to ease a slow and painful transition into adulthood, these are it. 
T-Shirt Dress
From a girl who vehemently despises dressing up, a T-shirt dress has been my go-to for any 
semi-formal demand. A trifecta of comfort, versatility and neutral tones, my cherished, charcoal gray dress has helped me put in effort without having to put in effort.
Nike Frees
UCSD’s topography has set my calves aflame on more than one occasion. From the climb up 
Peterson Hill to  the trek from Pepper Canyon to Asante, shoes wear down faster than the quarter 
system passes. But alas, my sturdy pair of sneakers have trampled a marathon throughout this 
campus for the past three years and are entering its last stretch, stronger than ever. 
Flip Flops
All that being said, the hallmark of any UCSD outfit starter pack, including my own, would not 
be complete without a pair of flip flops. Perhaps it’s a symbolic reminder alluding to the Pacific next door, or maybe Tritons feel claustrophobic wearing closed-toe shoes; a pair a flip flops seem to be a universal answer to all questions. Rain or shine? Flip flops. Trip to Chipotle? Flip flops. Midterm that no one can seem to walk away confidently from? Flip flops. 
Linen Shorts 
Particularly an olive green shade and found for $6.75 at an American Eagle Outfitters sale rack. 
There’s no rhyme or reason for these, except to grieve the challenge of finding a shirt that does not visibly clash. But comfort always wins in my book, and consequently, I had one outfit for the entirety of summer 2016. Perhaps this is more of a lesson learned — buy some comfortable pants, shorts, skirt, anything; just make sure its palette is palatable with more than one shirt. 
Ripped Jeans
Another $6 pant find and from Uniqlo, no less! A pair of ripped, boyfriend jeans have been 
the best bargain I have yet to beat. This discounted discovery has been the perfect way to balance overcast skies with overheated bus rides, and is my way of raising a fist to FAFSA.
Flannel 
Well-worn and well-loved, Southern California’s version of a jacket has helped me battle coastal 
fog since the winter of 2014. Even with a gaping hole in the right sleeve — that never seems to hold a restorative stitch — this beloved piece of plaid will continue to be worn until the end of its days. Living in the enigma that is San Diego’s weather, flannels are a personal favorite and a strong recommendation. 
As Southern California seems to be free of summer’s unforgiving chokehold, many of us are 
left wondering; what are we going to wear now that it’s officially, finally fall, and not the 80-degree weather we’ d just started getting acclimated to?
The solution: mix a summer wardrobe with the heavier items everyone packed but thought 
they wouldn’t ever need. That’s what college is all about — innovating like Bill Nye the Science Guy, whether it be making pancakes out of ramen noodles, or in this case, wearing a tank top in 60-degree weather.
The Problem: A Denim SkirtThe Solution: Wear a favorite pullover hoodie (a perfect opportunity to rep UC San Diego 
merch!) tucked into said skirt. It sounds weird in theory, but I do it on occasion. In fact, I’ve tucked in my hoodies into mom jeans and high-waisted shorts. Make this a thing in 2018.
The Problem: A Sleeveless Top/DressThe Solution: Layer it over a T-shirt or long-sleeve shirt for extra warmth. Don’t be afraid to get creative and experiment! I once put a slip dress over a hoodie. Don’t sacrifice comfort in the name of fashion (unless you really want to, then, by all means go for it).
The Problem: A T-ShirtThe Solution: Wear a flannel or a long-sleeved button-down over the T-shirt, leaving it 
unbuttoned if you want to show off that Drake concert T-shirt, or button it to hide those Batman pajamas. Don’t worry, I won’t tell.
The Problem: Short-Sleeved Button-DownThe solution: Channel the 2000s and wear a long-sleeve underneath the button-down. Bonus 
points if the sleeves have a design on them. Similarly, take a crewneck sweater or sweatshirt and 
wear it over the button-down, making sure to stick out the collar.
The Problem: Shorts
The Solution: Pants.Garments That Got Me Through
Transitioning into Fall FashionBy Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Associate Editor
By Chelsea Santos // Contributing Writer
“Can I get this?” my nine-year-old self inquired, a hopeful grin on my face as I handed the dinosaur 
T-shirt to my guardian*. A noticeable scowl developed on her face, her eyes looking down condescendingly. “This is a boy’s shirt. Y ou’re not allowed to wear this, ” she scolded, tossing the article of clothing into the nearest rack. Puzzled, I asked, “I always play with dinosaurs, and I’m not a boy!” 
She huffed, taking my hand sternly and leading me to the “girls’ section” of the store. “Well, wearing that 
shirt will get you made fun of, so I suggest you pick a shirt from this section. ” 
Disappointed, I took a pink horse T-shirt and watched the approving the smile that lit up my guardian’s 
face. 
The obsession with the binary of clothing has always been a topic that perplexed me; why are there such 
rigid gender restrictions centered on a commodity that is supposed to express us? Growing up, I could not understand why I could not wear a certain brand of shorts or shirts because they were labeled as “boys’ wear. ” It was a constant fight to ask for video game T-shirts and darker hoodies because “that was not what girls were supposed to wear. ” I started to grow a hatred for “feminine” clothing, like skirts and dresses, because of these restrictive roles placed on me at such a young age. Dressing in “boy” clothes was an act of 
rebellion for me, even though I should not have had to oppose something centered in “free choice. ”
This is not just an issue surrounding young girls; young boys and teens face an even more prominent 
challenge when trying to wear “feminine” clothing in public. The concept of clothing in general has always 
been regarded as something more innately “feminine-coded, ” making it “inappropriate” for boys to partake in because it could damage their masculinity. Teaching boys that they are not allowed to wear skirts, dresses, or even participate in “fashion” itself is a damaging mindset that can evolve into issues of toxic-masculinity.
These gender norms in clothing are especially harmful to trans youth who question their own assigned 
gender or even lie outside of the binary. Speaking as a non-binary person who questioned their gender identity early on, I was interrogated constantly on why I decided to dress “so much like a boy. ” Trans women 
who dress in “feminine” clothing are often subjected to extreme violence simply because transmisogynistic 
people will claim that those clothes are not for them. Trans men cannot dress in “feminine” clothing either without getting comments that suggest a switch to “masculine” clothing. It is all brought back to the obsession of clothing equalling gender. One can choose to dress as “feminine” or “masculine, ” but that should not always indicate what someone’s immediate gender is.
In short, dress how you want and how you identify — do not limit yourself to others’ gender expectations 
of clothing. Even though society has taken some effort to move to a gender-neutral view of clothing, it will take quite a while to uproot an institutionalized practice. What is most important is to dismantle these ingrained thoughts and work to wear what is most comfortable to you and you alone. 
Now that I am here in college, I am excited to represent my own identity and explore other aspects of 
fashion that were restricted from me. No matter whether I dress “feminine” or “masculine, ” I know my own person and my own agency. So sit back, like me, in my cozy pajamas and dinosaur tee, and enjoy the free reign of fashion! The Problem with  “Gendering” Clothing
By Guardian Sta ff
All images provided by writersBy Natasha Vandamme 
// Contributing Writer Moon Si gns101:LIFESTYLE         THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •   San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
ultrazonesd
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE  
NIGHT ” 
Thursday — 
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LASER TAG!
LASER TAG!
COLLEGE  
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LATE NIGHT  
at the ZONE 
Friday & Saturday — 
Midnight to 2am
20% OFF   your event!
 20
% OFF
   
 % OFF
   % OFF
 your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.comUCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
Wanna Hook Up?
...Uh, with sic deals that is.
Visit www.ultrazonesandiego.com!This week in Astrology 101, we will be discussing moon signs. Moon signs differs from sun 
signs; they explain why someone reacts a certain way to a situation, indicating emotional instincts. 
It is also more exposed at home, or any place of comfort, and in isolation.
This differs in comparison to sun signs, which indicate basic personality and temperament. 
Moon signs also signify one’s emotions, innermost desires, and hidden self. Though two people 
might share the same sun sign, they can still be quite different due to their moon signs. To find out 
what moon sign you are, simply look up “moon sign calculator” online, and you should be able to find your moon sign based on your time and place of birth.
Aries moon
Those with an Aries moon have difficulty with restraint. They want what they want, and they 
want it now. The only kind of gratification they know is instant. Those with this moon also love drama. If they feel even the slightest bit bored, watch out. But, they never hold grudges; Aries only live in the moment.
Taurus moon
Taurus moons have a peace to them that noticeably affects others. Being emotionally stable, 
this moon sign is like an anchor to others. Their unwavering disposition does not adapt well to deviation though. Lunar Taureans are so set and stubborn in their ways that acknowledging and adjusting to change is a challenge.
Gemini moon
Lunar Geminis are constantly unsettled emotionally. Their discomfort with emotional stability 
makes them flighty. Being brilliant, they need to be mentally stimulated, and if they are not, they move on. Gemini moons are also very moody, but when they lash out at you, don’t take it personally. It is usually due to their own emotional turmoil.
Cancer moon
The moon rules Cancer, so it is more than comfortable commanding Cancer as a moon sign. 
Lunar Cancers are very in touch with not only their own emotions, but others’ , as well; although they become a bit self-absorbed. Cancer moons are also very nostalgic, they hold on to the past and especially cling to emotional memories.
Leo moon
Leo moons need to feel extremely comfortable in order to come out of their shell. To Leo moons, 
image is everything. Though they are extremely dramatic and take things personally a lot of the time, they don’t let anyone know. Also, their pride forces them to take control of everything, making 
them master organizers.
Virgo moon
Those with a Virgo moon love to nitpick and analyze details. They are very particular about everything, especially routines. Due to their detail-oriented personalities, Lunar Virgos get stressed 
quite easily. Virgo moons may be overlooked, but they like leading simple lives, content with doing their work and whatever else needing to be done.
Libra moon
Libra moons love companionship. They will do anything to avoid being alone. This is actually 
quite easy for them due to great social skills and charming personalities. Lunar Librans also enjoy a good debate, often spark reasonable arguments and always get the last word.
Scorpio moon
The theme for Scorpio moons is “emotional intensity. ” Their emotional intuition is almost 
supernatural; Scorpio moons can know how someone is feeling. They also value total commitment. For them, it’s all or nothing. Though they emanate an image of strength, they are actually terrified of betrayal and will tests possible partners.
Sagittarius moon
Sagittarius moons love freedom and adventure. They are often athletically inclined due to their 
love for outdoor activities. Moreover, Lunar Sagittarians need change. Being stuck in a routine doing the same things over and over again would drive them insane. When this happens, they find themselves running away to escape this constancy.
Capricorn moon
Lunar Capricorns place a heavy value on productivity and efficiency. They are very put-together 
and have life figured out. However, though they may seem cool and in control, this could just be a facade. Capricorn moons feel just as deeply as the other signs, the only difference being that they never show it.
Aquarius moon
Despite Aquarius moons’ humanitarian interests and developed social skills, those of this moon 
sign identify as loners. Lunar Aquarians are quite unique and feel as if they are on the outside, looking in.They are good at understanding others’ emotions, but not their own because they mistake true selves for the ‘self ’ shown to others. 
Pisces moon
Lunar Pisceans have incredible emotion intuition. This makes them very understanding and 
caring, but it can also lead to over-involvement in someone else’s emotional life. Pisces moons are also perceived as being out of touch with reality and always daydreaming, but those who believe this cannot comprehend their perplexing spirits.
That’s all for this week, Astro-lovers. I hope you learned a little more about yourself and 
encouraged delve into a little introspection some time. Stay tuned next week, and remember: the stars never lie!12                                  T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  6 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
NOVEMBE R 17,  201 7 • 8PM
TOWN SQU ARE  & MA TTHEWS  QUAD
WITH P ERF ORMA NCES B Y
GOLDL INK
PHA M
COURT SHIP.
FRE E FOOD , CA RNIV AL RIDES, & MUSIC
HULLABALOO.U CSD .EDU
After Boracay, the next stop in my journey was Palawan, an island on the western edge of the 
country. Despite being only an hour or so away from Manila by plane, Palawan feels remote from 
the rest of the Philippines, and parts of it are actually closer to Malaysia. The geology is markedly different as well — mountains tower over the seas and limestone karsts scrape the sky. 
After landing in Puerto Princesa, we drove to a small village called Sabang, our home for the 
next three days. We arrived relatively late in the day, so we went night swimming in the pool and ordered food from the hotel — after a long day of traveling, nothing was better than a huge serving (or two) of rice and sinigang, sour soup.
Our first full day in Palawan was action-packed. We first visited the Underground River, one 
of the New7Wonders of Nature and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. From Sabang, we took a motorized banca a short distance away to the entrance of the national park. To visit the river, everyone dons lifejackets and helmets and waits in a long line until a group is called. That group then piles two-by-two into a small rowboat, headed by a local boatman. 
As the boat neared the entrance of the cave, the sound of flapping bat wings grew louder and 
louder. The smell also starts to hit riders or, in the case of my brother, it literally hit — a bat pooped on his leg before we even entered the cave, something he still talks about to this day. 
We rowed about two miles in, though the river stretches for another three. The actual cave itself 
is very, very dark — natural light doesn’t trickle in from anywhere. It’s also quite claustrophobic in places, since we rowed through narrow passages. I remember keeping my head ducked, partly because of the bats, but partly because it was terrifying knowing there was hundreds of pounds of limestone just above my head. 
But, the effect was beautiful, like being in a real-life Disneyland attraction. Lamplight danced 
against the smooth ridges of the cave walls and reflected against the black waters. Huge stalagmites 
and stalactites fell from the ceiling or erupted from the ground. At one point, we entered a cavern 
with high ceilings, the darkest point in the cave, and our boatman turned off the light for a moment. 
We were surrendered into total darkness, the peaceful drip of water above our only companion.
Upon returning to Sabang, I slurped down some buko juice out of a coconut before our second 
adventure of the day: ziplining. We drove to the bottom of a mountain and hiked the 20-minute trek up, through the lush jungle. They strapped all of us into harnesses, and I volunteered to go first. 
My knees grew weak as I stepped up to the platform. I suddenly realized that I would be 
catapulting myself off a mountain, relying on a stretch of fabric and a hook to keep me from plummeting hundreds of feet below. I stared off at the little hut the zipline led to — it looked so far away. Fear began to settle in me. 
But wow, was it worth it. Despite being rainy that morning, the sun had pushed its way through 
the clouds, and I don’t think I fully understood the phrase “glittering waters” until that moment. Land disappeared beneath me, and I was soon dangling above the sea. I clutched my phone in one 
hand, videotaping the whole experience; initially, my body was frozen, but I soon began to relax. 
“I’m flying!” my five-year-old cousin described it. “I’m flying. ” 
This was my first time to Palawan, and though my stay in Puerto Princesa was short, it was an 
amazing introduction to the beauty of the islands. I was able to experience it in extremes — from its deepest depths to its highest heights — and challenge myself and my fears along the way. Getting to encounter what I consider one of the most beautiful places on Earth with my own eyes is an image I won’t forget.  
Inspired by my recent trip to the Philippines, Tales of a Philippine Life is a weekly column 
exploring culture, family, mindsets, home, and more. If you’ d like to read the other pieces in this 
column, please visit http://ucsdguardian.org/category/lifestyle-2/. If you’ d like to see more pictures 
of my trip, check out @storiesnstills on Instagram. Tales of a Philippine Life: Seeing Puerto Princesa in Extremes
By Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
YEMEN BLUESTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 6 - NOV 122017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN11.09 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org3pm
QUARTERLY CONVERSATIONS IN 
GLOBAL HEALTH: MATERNAL & 
CHILD HEALTH - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
Join us for appetizers and hear from a panel 
on Child & Maternal Health featuring UC San Diego faculty, researchers and outside 
organizations. According to the World Health 
Organization, approximately 830 women died 
every day in 2015 from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth, while 
more than 750 children under the age of 5 
died every hour in 2012. Come hear from 
experts about research going on in the field and what organizations are doing around the 
world to reduce these numbers. Brought to you 
by UC San Diego Students for Global Health, 
Global Health Program Global Health Institute, Global Forum. Contact: globalforumihouse@ucsd.edu
7pm
WHO’S AFRAID OF FREE SPEECH? 
- PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
What is free speech and is it at risk on college 
campuses? Are raucous and violent demonstrations that disrupt or shut down 
campus speakers and events a legitimate 
form of counter-speech or a chilling attempt to 
silence open debate and the free exchange of ideas? Seton Hall Law Professor Thomas Healy 
will address these and related questions 
Wednesday, November 8th at UCSD in his talk, 
Who’s Afraid of Free Speech? Contact: vhartouni@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BREAKING 
BARRIERS, WOMEN IN 
ANIMATION - THE LOFT
A Southern California native, Caroline Foley is 
a writer, animator, and director living in Burbank, California. Foley got her start animating cartoon shorts for The New Yorker. Soon after she found herself working in stop-motion (Robot Chicken) and later transitioned back into 2-d animation, animating on the pilot episode for Bojack Horseman. In 2013, Foley began her three-season run as an animator on Rick and Morty. After season two, she and her creative partner, Thomas Borowski, landed their own pilot with Amazon: Toasty Tales. Foley continues her career in animation today as a writer for a new online shorts division at Cartoon Network. Come out to The Loft and see how Caroline Foley Broke Barriers in this quarter's Breaking Barriers! Contact: ascespecialevents@ucsd.edu11am
ILEAD: YOUR RIGHT TO PROTEST 
(DOUBLE STAMP ) - EARL WARREN 
COLLEGE ROOM, 3RD LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
How well do you know your First Amendment rights? 
What does freedom of speech and the right of the people to peacefully assemble mean? In this 
workshop, you will learn about freedom of 
expression and your rights and responsibilities 
when participating in demonstrations. Full attendance at this workshop will grant you 2 
stamps. Presented by Jon Carlos Senour, Director, 
Student Legal Services. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
6pm
AMERICAN PIE - MIDDLE EARTH
Interested in learning more about American culture? Come join us on Monday night at Middle 
Earth and eat some pie and play matching games 
with the Outreach Coordinators and ERC RAs to learn more! Contact: ercoutreach@ucsd.edu
7pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 6 - GREAT HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday! Come to learn and practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see what languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu11:30am
FLU CLINIC AT THE ZONE! - THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Protect yourself from Flu Season! Come by The 
Zone November 1 & 3 from 11:30 - 4:00 pm. No appointment needed. Walk-ins Welcome. Tdap vaccines are also available. Note: This service is for registered students only. Cost: Free for students with SHIP and $25 for students with RAFT or a fee for service (with outside insurance). Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
2pm
ILEAD: INTERCULTURAL 
COMMUNICATION - BEAR ROOM, 
2ND LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
As our world continues to globalize, it is essential 
to understand the basics of intercultural 
communication. Join us for a workshop where we 
will explore your own cultural communication style, the communication styles of different cultures, and learn more about tools and resources to further develop your intercultural learning. Presented by Grace Fuller, Outreach Coordinator, International & Out-of-State Students. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
5pm
INSIDE INNOVATION: BRIAN HEAD - 
SANFORD CONSORTIUM, ROTH 
AUDITORIUM AND TERRACE
Inside Innovation isa presentation series featuring 
the latest innovative technologies developed by UC 
San Diego researchers. Get an inside look at what 
is happening in the labs, explore commercialization opportunities and inquire about licensing. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 6 - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday! Come to learn and practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see what languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD MEN’S WATER POLO - 
SUNSET SAN DIEGO - 
CANYONVIEW POOLS
Come support your UCSD Men's Water Polo 
team during the Sunset San Diego event! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
12pm
UCSD MEN’S WATER POLO - SAN 
FRANCISCO OLYMPIC CLUB - CANYONVIEW POOLS
Come support your UCSD Men's Water Polo 
team as during the San Francisco Olympic Club tournament! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
FLOURISH AT UCSD DROP-IN 
WORKSHOP - REVELLE FORMAL 
LOUNGE
Belong. Be you. Be well. Dr. Alex Thibeault and a 
Wellness Peer Educator provide informative and interactive exercises to help you flourish at UCSD! Topics include stress management, building social confidence, mindfulness, self-compassion, and self-care. Drop in for any or all of the sessions. Contact: athibeault@ucsd.edu
8pm
YEMEN BLUES - PRICE CENTER 
EAST BALLROOM
After having played more than 300 live shows in 
the last four years, Yemen Blues finally arrives to make its San Diego debut. An astonishing musical concept that resides at the crossroads of traditional Yemenite melodies and the world of funk, blues, and jazz, Yemen Blues is led by the ridiculously charismatic frontman Ravid Kahalani, who burst onto the world and contemporary music scenes in 2010 to create a global buzz that has only gotten louder and more intense since then. Conjuring up a rich and diverse aural palette with the use of percussion, oud, horns, and strings, the collective coexists in both the past and present, at once timeless and modern. Contact: artpower.marketing@ucsd.edu12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - THE 
GREAT HALL
Meet people from around the world, enjoy 
international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from a different country every week! Price: $5 per plate. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
WEEK 6 - GREAT HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE (ERC)
LCTs are one of I-House's most popular programs 
and this year they'll occur every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday! Come to learn and practice languages, exchange culture weekly, and to connect with students from all over the world! Anybody is welcome to come, so we hope to see you there! See the URL to see what languages are offered when. Please RSVP on Eventbrite: http://tinyurl.com/LCTfall. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.eduTUE11.07
THU11.09
SAT11.11MON 11.06
FRI11.10WED11.08PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOMTHURSDAY
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
NOV 11
VETERAN’S DAYCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Wooden pins
5. Lip9. Seashore find
14. Wheel shaft
15. Otherwise
16. Supernatural17. Legal claim18. Get together
19. E.T., e.g.
20. Rubber band
22. Underwater weapon24. Dishonor25. What a pity!
26. Police drama
28. Vocalist ____ Fitzgerald
32. Mother35. Crossword diagram36. Brave
38. Rocker ____ Cooper
40. Negative vote
42. Humming sound43. Beliefs45. Deficiency47. Koppel or Kennedy48. Carry around49. Ill-fated ship52. Richard ____ of “Chicago”53. India’s Mother ____57. Giant wave61. Abandons62. Spring month63. Night twinkler65. Break sharply66. Heavenly food67. Roof part68. Ceramic piece69. Road bends70. Ran71. ObservedDOWN
 1. Lost color2. Banish3. Shine
4. Perceived
5. Symposium
6. Actor ____ Guinness7. Compass pt.8. Decide
9. Singes
10. SOS!
11. Pennsylvania port12. Fibbed13. Comedian Jay ____
21. Archer’s goal
23. Vow
25. Moderately slow, in music27. Card game28. Make mistakes
29. Plunder
30. Draw the ____
31. Scored on serve32. Actor ____ Dillon33. Butter alternative34. Coin factory37. Whirlpools39. Average grade41. Nay’s opposite44. Flower support46. Came in50. Purple flowers51. Tops of waves52. Parties54. ____ Banks of baseball55. Not fresh56. Colorado ski resort57. Docile58. Health clubs59. Large vases60. Innings number61. Humorist ____ Barry64. Strike lightlyHOUSING
La Jolla International Gardens $1645-
$2555. 3417 Lebon Drive, San Diego CA, 92122. The art of living comes alive at La Jolla International Gardens located in 
La Jolla/UTC area of San Diego, CA. La 
Jolla International Gardens treats you to a 
wealth of executive appointments featur -
ing our Newly Renovated 1 & 2 bedroom 
apartment homes. Your backdrop: dramatic 
vaulted ceilings, a romantic wood-burning 
fireplace, breezy patios (on select units) 
and large master suites with walk-in clos -
ets; all providing an open and airy canvas to complement your lifestyle. A resort-
style fitness haven has been designed to 
meet your quest for fun and activity. Work 
out in our complete gym with Nautilus and aerobic equipment, swim in our heat -
ed lap pool, or simply relax in a bubbly 
jacuzzi. Entertain guests in our game room, 
complete with wet bar, kitchen and pool table. There’s no need to call it a day when you come home to La Jolla International Gardens.......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
La Scala Apartment Homes $1695- $2485. 
3845 Nobel Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. Ideally located in San Diego’s Golden Triangle, La Scala Apartments offers you quality, comfort, convenience, and value. Our newly renovated apartments include 
updated, cabinets, appliances, lighting, 
paint colors, and flooring. Enjoy a dip in 
our resort style pool, a soothing Jacuzzi, landscaped courtyards and soothing foun -
tains. State of the art cardio and weight equipment is ready for your use. Stay con -
nected in our Internet Lounge. Stop by for a tour. We’d love to show you around!.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationLa Jolla Canyon- $1525-$2300. 9515 
Genesee Ave., San Diego, CA 92121.La 
Jolla Canyon is rental living designed for 
your convenience. Professional property 
management secures beautiful naturally 
landscaped grounds and a relaxed, well 
maintained environment. La Jolla Canyon is conveniently located close to shopping centers, beaches, movie theaters, restau -
rants and schools. Many major corporations are within a short distance. Our one and two bedroom rental homes are equipped 
with the functional features necessary in 
our fast-paced world and all the amenities 
that you will be glad to come home to. For 
your enjoyment there is a lovely swimming 
pool and spa, a fully equipped fitness cen -
ter open 24 hours and a convenient laundry 
facility. Combined with our lush landscap -
ing, La Jolla Canyon truly is community living at it’s finest. All this at an affordable price!.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
JOBS
Social Media Marketing Help. Coronado, 
CA 92118. Mypetrecordsonline.com. I have launched a new service/website currently not being offered anywhere else.I am old. You are not. I need help navigating social media marketing. However just because you can text 60 words a minute doesn’t make you knowledge of marketing on the web. Pay Is negotiable. Please don’t waste my time if you are in the habit of being late, missing deadlines or get your feelings hurt easily. I am the easiest person in the world to work with, if communication is open and direct. I require some scheduled face to face time as I still need to look into some -
ones eyes as we talk. I like a handshake. 
Don’t care if you are a graduate student or 
undergrad. Just know your stuff. Definite opportunity for growth. Do not contact me 
until you have reviewed the website and 
whiteboard video.I’m not really as cranky 
as I sound. ….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sales Associate (Fashion Valley). San Diego, 
CA 92108. The role of a Sales Associate at UO is to create an engaging shopping experience for our customers while work -
ing in a place where you can share your 
love for music, design and style and inter -
act with people in a real and authentic 
way..…...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Customer Associate (La Jolla). San Diego, 
CA 92122. A Customer Associate supports the store leadership team through the cultivation of a store environment that surprises and delights our customers each time they walk through our doors. We envi -
sion someone with a vibrant personality, an efficient nature, and natural warmth. Our ideal candidate will provide excep -
tional service in all aspects of the sales floor - greeting customers, selling, product knowledge, styling, cash wrap, restock and 
overall shopkeeping..... ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
2009 Bentley Continental Flying Spur. San 
Diego, CA 92111. Exterior Color: black, Body: Sedan, Engine: 6.0L W12 60 VOLT 
MPFI DUAL OVERHEAD CAM Twin Turb, 
Fuel: Gasoli, Doors: 4.…..ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2013 Ford Explorer Limited. San Diego, 
CA 92109. Exterior Color: charcoal, Body: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE, Engine: 3.5L V6 24 VOLT MPFI DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT, Fuel: Gasoli, Doors: 4..... ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
New 2015 Chevrolet Suburban LT 1500. 
San Diego, CA 92108. Body Style: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE. Exterior Color: black. Inside color: Jet BlackY. Mileage: three miles...... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
After dropping down to the third 
seed in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings, the 
UC San Diego men’s soccer team was forced to play in the first round of 
the CCAA conference tournament.  
Unfortunately, the Tritons’ hopes of 
ending the weekend with a second straight conference tournament title ended on Tuesday night with a 1–0 upset loss against sixth seed San Francisco State. With the loss the Tritons had their 11-game unbeaten streak snapped, at a time where a loss has real consequences, unlike the regular season.  
The game remained scoreless 
throughout the first half as both 
teams failed to create many chances. San Francisco State dominated the game as they took it to the Tritons throughout Tuesday night. It took until minute 49 for the first goal to 
fall in and it came o ff a long throw in from the Gators. The throw in came 
from the le ft side near the corner and 
the Gators were able to get a flick on 
and freshman Feliciano Cardenas 
instinctively reached for a header and 
was able to get it passed the Triton goalkeeper. Cardenas’ header came to be the match winner and the Tritons could not muster up a response as 
they could not get anything in the 
final third.  
After going down 1–0, the Tritons 
attempted to take more initiative on 
the offensive end, however it became 
difficult after the goal as the Gators sat 
back and defended in numbers.  The 
defensive-minded approach by the 
Gators in the second half worked out 
perfectly and sent the Tritons crashing 
out of the tournament.
Now, the Tritons will rest their 
hopes on a spot in the NCAA Division 
II tournament; the field of 38 teams 
will be announced on Monday, Nov. 6. On a brisk Saturday a fternoon, 
the UC San Diego men’s water polo 
team leapt into the pool, in front of a 
large home crowd, hoping to claim 
victory in its final home game against a 
formidable UC Davis team. The Aggies, 
however, held o ff the Tritons, defeating 
the home team in a competitive 12–15 
game.
UC Davis struck first, taking 
advantage of a UCSD penalty to go up 1–0 with 6:35 to go in the quarter. The 
Tritons responded quickly with three 
consecutive points; junior Alessandro V alania, sophomore Skyler Munatones, and junior Kevin Asplund all found 
the back of the net to give the Tritons 
a 3–1 lead. The Aggies, however, were 
able to cut the de ficit, again pro fiting 
from UCSD fouls, and end the opening 
quarter only trailing by one (5–4).
In the second quarter, the Aggies 
began to find their o ffensive groove, 
scoring four unanswered points, giving the Aggies their first lead since the 
opening score of the game. A resilient effort by Triton junior goalkeeper 
Sam Thompson kept UC Davis from 
running away with the score, but the Tritons still were down by two (7–9) going into the half.
Coming out of the half, the score 
remained tight. Throughout the 
third quarter, the Tritons and Aggies exchanged points, but neither team 
was able to take command. UC Davis 
maintained its two-point lead, ending 
the period 12–10.
Halfway through the fourth 
quarter, momentum seemed to have 
flipped in UCSD’s favor. Fresh o ff a 
score by senior Arman Momdzhyan, 
sophomore utility Jack Ranj stole the 
ball and began streaking down the 
pool. In a desperate attempt to prevent 
a breakaway, the UC Davis defender 
grabbed Ranj’s leg and pulled him 
back, earning himself an ejection.
The Tritons, only down by two 
points (13–11) and with a man 
up, seemed to be on the cusp of a 
comeback. Suddenly, the referee’s 
whistled pierced the excited 
commotion of the crowd. Confusion 
about which players were ejected caused the referees to momentarily 
halt play. When the whistle was blown, 
the UCSD bench and coaching sta ff 
exploded with shouts of anger and 
disbelief. The crowd was livid — one 
fan even shouted at the referee, “Open 
the rulebook, you moron!” Their 
outrage was entirely justi fied; the 
Triton’s advantage was quickly erased, 
as the defense was able to assume their 
positions as the referees conferred. 
When play was resumed, the Tritons, 
predictably, were unable to score. 
After that, UCSD was never able to 
regain control, losing the game 15–12.  “It’s a game that was very physical 
[with] two good teams that played 
hard, ” remarked UCSD Assistant head 
coach Matt Ustaszewski. “It’s a game 
that you have to adjust and we didn’t 
adjust as well. ”
The Tritons go on the road to close 
out the regular season, playing UC 
Irvine in Irvine next week on Nov. 8.
Despite the tight score in the second half, the Tritons couldn’t pull off  the comeback
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduBY daniel hernandez
senior Staff Writer
BY Wesley Xiao
Contributing Writer
UC San Diego Drops Close Match To UC DavisThe men’s soccer team had its CCAA title aspirations 
ended on Tuesday night by the lower ranked Gators. Tritons Eliminated by SF State
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSThe women’s soccer team pulled ahead in the 
67th minute to advance in the CCAA tournament.“Bring it in ladies!” UC San Diego 
senior forward and captain, Katie 
O’Laughlin calls out to the women’s 
soccer team which finished the 2017 
regular season 13–2–2 overall and an 
undefeated 10–0–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association. A Carlsbad native, O’Laughlin began 
playing soccer at age four and heavily 
pursued the college recruiting process 
between her sophomore and junior 
years of high school. O’Laughlin 
bounced around between club teams, finally settling down with LA Galaxy 
San Diego, a team she grew to love coached by a college coach who saw potential in the 5’8” attacker.
Potential, to say the very least. 
O’Laughlin made an impact for the Tritons from the get-go, appearing in 
14 games as a freshman, in which she 
started the last 10. As a sophomore in 2015, she received Division 2 Conference Commissions Association  All-West Region Second Team, National Soccer Coaches Association of America All-West Region Second 
Team and All-CCAA First Team to 
list just a few. However, the awards do 
not stop there. In 2016, O’Laughlin 
achieved an NSCAA All-American 
First Team selection, D2CCA West-Region Player of the Y ear, and CCAA Offensive Player of the Y ear. This year, 
O’Laughlin is tied for a team-high of 
six goals, on top of her three assists.
Aside from the hardware, 
O’Laughlin has developed on the 
field, not only physically but mentally 
as well, since her rookie season. “I started my freshmen year and was super nervous. I played really hard and worked really hard but I didn’t enjoy 
the game since I was so involved in 
playing well. These last few years I have 
come to appreciate [it] a lot more and 
have a lot more fun with [it]. ”
Balancing school, athletics, and a 
social life can be challenging for it was 
far from anything easy, O’laughlin had explained. Prioritizing both sleep and school were strategies she used to help her be so successful in multiple aspects. 
“I currently have two jobs, soccer and 
school, and I’m so overwhelmed but 
taking naps and prioritizing yourself 
over outside things is de finitely the 
way to go, ” O’Laughlin said.
O’Laughlin had always wanted to 
go away for college but a fter attending 
a soccer camp amid her college 
pursuit, she fell in love with UCSD. 
Beyond the unbeatable location of La 
Jolla, “it’s an amazing academic school 
and Brian [McManus, head coach] has a lot to give as he has been here for 31 years. ”
Although a tough decision for the 
star, the most memorable moment of 
O’Laughlin’s career came during her 
junior campaign. The season started 
off with a trip to Seattle which sparked 
lots of team unity. “Going 12–0 in 
season, winning conference, and winning in the [CCAA] Tournament was amazing. I took away how much support we had from the student-athletes … and it became something bigger than us. It was really cool, ” she 
said.
With her four years as a 
student-athlete coming to an end, a 
heartbreaking moment for many who 
have devoted a majority of their young lives to a certain sport, O’Laughlin expresses how much she will miss 
the team and seeing her friends every 
single day. The daily grind is no joke 
when practice starts at 7:15 a.m., but 
“when you are with your friends, it 
makes life a lot better, ” O’Laughlin said. “I will de finitely miss soccer, 
I won’t miss running or sprinting, but being on a team and having that regular social aspect. ”
Not to mention, O’Laughlin 
also serves as the Vice President for Triton Athletes’ Council. TAC 
is an assembly of fellow student-
athlete, representatives from each intercollegiate team at UCSD who meet twice a month to converse about ways to better enhance the relationships between other campus organizations, fundraising opportunities, ways to 
give back to the community and so-on.
O’Laughlin is currently finishing 
up her Bachelor’s degree in general 
biology within Eleanor Roosevelt 
College. In her free time, she interns at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration where 
she researches the sea turtles in San 
Diego Bay. With hopes of using those 
connections, O’Laughlin plans on 
further engaging in marine biology 
after UCSD. At the same time, she is 
excited for a change. “I have lived in San Diego my whole life and I want to try something new. Ideally, I want to go up north to Washington or Alaska. ” 
Having lived in the warm California 
sun from a young age, the weather 
could be a potential factor as the 
beautiful, 72-degree San Diego days 
are not so promising. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego women’s soccer 
team faced o ff against the Cal State 
San Marcos Cougars in the California 
Collegiate Athletics Association 2017 
Soccer Championship semi finals on 
Friday, Nov. 3. The No. 1 seed Tritons 
went into the game at the top of their 
conference, holding a stellar 10–0–1 record. The Cougars finished fifth in 
the conference and advanced past No. 4 Chico State in the quarter finals 
thanks to some penalty kicks. 
With five starters unable to play due 
to injury and illness, head coach Brian 
McManus called upon his reserves 
to deliver, starting a group of players who had never practiced or played together before. However, in spite of this hurdle, the Tritons successfully overcame their opponents, defeating Cal State San Marcos 1–0. 
The Tritons almost gave up a goal in 
the 63rd minute when Cougar senior 
forward Kayla Anderson pushed the 
ball down field and chipped it over 
Triton redshirt sophomore goalkeeper Angelica Ramos. The ball sailed over 
Ramos’ head and bounded toward the goal. All hope seemed lost for the Tritons, but redshirt sophomore midfielder Natalie Saddic, who was named CCAA Defensive Player of 
the Y ear, had other ideas. In a burst 
of speed, Saddic dove for the ball and sent it flying away and out from the 
goal with a right-footed kick. 
UCSD’s lone goal came in the at 
the 67th minute of regulation when freshman forward Maddy Samilo, who was starting her first game with UCSD, 
received a le ft-footed cross by junior 
midfielder Summer Bales. Samilo sent 
the ball o ff the right post and into the 
net to give the Tritons the lead. 
With 2:30 le ft in the game, the 
Cougars unsuccessfully tried to make one last push for a goal. They got as 
far as the edge of the penalty box, but repeated stops by the Triton defense removed any last glimmer of hope 
remaining for the Cougars. 
UC San Diego played Sonoma State 
yesterday in the CCAA tournament 
finals. Check our website for the 
updated results.madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
RICHARD LU  RIL014@ucsd.eduBY Richard Lu
Sports Editorial Assistant
Tritons Advance Past Cougars 
in CCAA Semifinal Thriller
Athlete 
Spotlight: 
Katie O’Laughlin
Staff Writer Madeline Lewis sits down with 
the senior forward to discuss the end of the Triton star’s career.by Madeline Lewis // Staff Writer
PHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER
Women's  soccerUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Water Polo
W Basketball
M Basketball
M Water Polo
M Water Polo11/8
11/1011/1011/1111/117 PM
1:30 PM
5 PM
10 AM
12 PMAT UC IrvineAT Simon Fraser AT Azusa PacificSunset San DiegoSan Francisco Olympic Club
PHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER