VOLUME 50, ISSUE 38   MONDA Y , MA Y 22, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
STUDENTS, 
STRESS & STATS
IN MAY, MENTAL HEALTH 
AWARENESS MONTH, 
LIFESTYLE TAKES A LOOK INTO 
WHAT CAUSES STRESS FOR 
STUDENTS. IN SURVEYING 
THE CAMPUS, WE FOUND 
THAT THERE’S MORE TO OUR 
STRESS THAN MEETS THE EYE.
IDENTITY  CRISIS
NBA PLA YOFFSRELIGION  IN   AMERICA
Do  Superteams  Help  or  Hurt?OPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  15-16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“AS UNIVERISTY OF 
CALIFORNIA STUDENTS, 
WE ARE A HUGE PART OF 
CALIFORNIA’S FUTURE — 
ECONOMICALLY, SOCIALLY 
AND POLITICALLY. REGENTS 
AND UCOP NEED TO KNOW 
JUST WHO THEY ARE 
IGNORING”
- KELLY MORRIS
FUND THE UC
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DIVESTMENT  .................. 2
OP-ED..............................4
FEATURES  ....................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
BASEBALL  .................... 16 lifestyle,  P AGE  10
ILLUSTRATION BY SCOTT LIU 
MONDAY
H 72 L 62TUESDAY
H 72 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 60THURSDAY 
H 67 L 61
UC San Diego students and 
members of the A.S. Office of External 
Affairs protested outside the UC Board 
of Regents meeting in Oakland on May 
17, demanding a freeze on the tuition 
increase scheduled for next year in 
light of the Office of the State Auditor’s 
report stating that the UC Office of 
the President has $175 million in 
discretionary reserves that it kept 
hidden from the state. The meeting 
and demonstration came almost one 
week after Gov. Jerry Brown requested 
in a revised budget proposal that the 
state legislature sequester $50 million 
from UC funding until UCOP has 
fulfilled the recommendations made 
by the auditor’s office, along with other commitments.
Blocked by a police barricade from 
entering the Mission Bay Conference 
Center where the meeting took place 
at UC San Francisco, protesters from 
External Affairs, students from other 
campuses and organizations like 
American Federation of State, County, 
and Municipal Employees 3299 
gathered in front of a “wall” made from 
a large sign propped up by cardboard 
boxes that read “HOW MUCH 
ARE OUR LIVES WORTH?” with 
statements on issues like sexual assault 
cases that the administration has failed 
to address. The wall, which UCSD Vice 
President of External Affairs Nicolas 
Monteiro said was meant to represent 
“the ways in which the university has 
institutionally kept us, students and 
workers, out of making decisions, ” was ultimately knocked down to symbolize 
that the demonstrators will persist 
until their demands are met. 
The protesters held signs 
denouncing student poverty, the 
presence of Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement on campuses and could 
be heard intermittently chanting 
phrases such as “Whose university? 
Our university” and “We’re fired 
up! Can’t take it no more!” One by 
one, students and UC staff took the 
microphone to give speeches and share 
their experiences.
Monteiro explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that he felt it important 
for his office and UCSD students to 
demonstrate at the meeting because 
the university was dishonest with its New Group to 
Start Book Clubs 
for InmatesUCSD
Books Behind Bars will work 
with convicts at Donavan 
Prison to reduce recedivism.
UC San Diego students are taking 
to prisons in efforts to reduce San 
Diego county’s recidivism rates. In 
sponsoring book clubs for inmates 
housed at the Donovan Correctional 
Facility, student volunteers are creating 
an educational pipeline meant to help 
reintegrate inmates into society upon 
release.
The organization, known as Books 
Behind Bars, has fostered a program 
meant to give students firsthand 
exposure to the prison industrial 
complex. As stated by the program’s 
Facebook page, the prison industrial 
complex is a growing concern in the 
United States because it promotes 
the use of prison labor as a cheaper 
alternative means of production for 
large corporations such as Wal-Mart.
Tanisha Aggarwal, a freshman 
in Thurgood Marshall College and 
founder and president of Books Behind 
Bars, explains the problem posed 
to inmates by the prison industrial 
complex, implying that maintaining a 
large number of prisoners allows for 
more production.
“Companies from [which] we buy 
every day services from such as fast 
food, clothing, and even phone carriers 
are profiting off of prison labor, ” 
Aggarwal said. “So it’s not just like the 
U.S. has an unusually disproportionate 
number of people whom morality has 
failed, there’s simply no incentive to 
keep people out of prisons. ”
While most corporations maintain 
policies prohibiting the use of prison 
labor, most items on the shelves of 
well-known stores such as Whole 
Foods, Wal-Mart, Victoria’s Secret, 
Motorola, etc., avidly use prison labor 
factories as their primary mode of 
manufacturing. 
“We’re all aware of the ‘W ar on 
Drugs’ that’s been popularized since 
the Nixon administration as well 
as the practices of companies like 
Corrections Corporation of America 
and American Legislative Exchange 
Council, ” Aggarwal said. “However in 
my opinion, I still feel that we’re not 
fully conscious of how pervasive the 
prison industrial complex has become 
in America, the country that holds 
the highest percentage of incarcerated 
individuals in the world right now. ”
To combat the growing recidivism 
rates, Aggarwal believes that instituting 
book club programs at prisons will help 
create a prison-to-school pipeline to 
replace the school-to-prison pipeline 
that is often seen in inmate cases.
“This program aims to support 
reintegration by two ways, externally 
and internally, ” Aggarwal said. 
“Externally, by starting our monthly 
newsletter in which we feature 
the work we’ve been doing and 
testimonials from the inmates, we 
hope to humanize these people for 
the general public and raise awareness 
about mass incarceration while also 
erasing the false image of prisoners as 
portrayed in popular media. ”UC Regents Approve 18% Nonresident Cap
The UC Board of Regents has officially decided 
to place a cap on the number of out-of-state 
and international students each UC campus can 
admit. During its meeting at UC San Francisco 
today, the Regents voted in favor of limiting 
nonresident admissions to 18 percent of the total 
admissions.
UC Berkeley, UCLA, UC Irvine and UC 
San Diego are exempt because their current 
percentages of nonresidents are higher than the 
18-percent cap: UC Berkeley at 24.4 percent; 
UCLA at 22.8 percent; UC Irvine at 18.9 percent 
and UCSD at 22.9 percent.
However, they are required to maintain their 
current percentages and limit future enrollment 
of nonresident undergraduates to their current 
levels.
Regent John Pérez declared his approval for 
the measure. 
“This is an important and complex issue, ” 
Pérez said. “It’s a product of a more deliberative, 
more concentrated piece of work. I will support it 
because I think it represents very good work, and 
it moves in the right direction. ”
Last year, California State Auditor Elaine 
Howle came to the conclusion that the University 
of California system lowered its academic standards for out-of-state students, while leaving 
many California residents dismal who met and 
even exceeded the basic requirements of high 
GPA, extracurriculars and high test scores.
The enrollment policy proposal came to 
fruition after Howle publically released a report, 
which criticized the policy on nonresident 
enrollment by the universities. California 
Assemblymember Mike Gipson claimed the 
current UC policy was making it difficult for 
residents to be admitted, and the universities 
should have found other cost-cutting methods to 
accept more residents.
The policy was originally supposed to be 
voted on in March, but due to disagreements 
on the proposal, it was pushed to May. The state 
legislature set the deadline for the regents to act 
and finalize a policy or it will withhold $18.5 
million in enrollment funds.
An international Eleanor Roosevelt College 
student, who requested his name be kept 
anonymous, told the UCSD Guardian that an 
18-percent cap would make it fair for everyone, 
and he should not have an advantage because he 
pays more. He further stated that the cap would 
affect the acceptance rate of future out-of-state 
students.B y KEVIN PICHINTE  CONTRIBUTING WriterUC SYSTEM
The demonstration included other student groups in a stand against issues like tuition and poverty.A.S. COUNCIL
BY  L A U R E N  H O L T
NEWS EDITOR
BY  A R M O N I E  M E N D E Z
Staff Writer
A.S. and UCSD Students Protest at UC Regents Meeting
The Native American Student Alliance hosted its 7th Annual Powwow this weekend.  Photo by Francesca Hummler//GuardianCAMPUS
See BOOKS BEHIND BARS , page 3See NONRESIDENT CAP , page 3
See PROTEST , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
SPIRIT PARADIGM By Michi Sora
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available@ucsdguardianYOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.orgOn the morning of May 17, 
Chancellor Khosla released a 
statement in support of fossil fuel 
divestment on his blog. 
“I stand by our students who are 
calling for fossil fuel divestment and 
support their aims, ” Khosla wrote. “I 
am pleased to support the incredible 
efforts the [University of California] 
has already made toward tackling 
climate change and providing 
leadership and solutions that we 
will all depend on. ”
This declaration comes after 
Chancellor Yang of UC Santa 
Barbara, Chancellor Blumenthal 
of UC Santa Cruz and interim 
Chancellor Hexter of UC Davis 
issued similar statements in 
solidarity with the Fossil Free UC 
movement this past week. 
Chancellor Yang’s breakthrough 
statement came after a three-
day-long sit-in by 350 students 
at UCSB’s campus administrative 
building Cheadle Hall along with the endorsement of over 25 faculty 
members. The sit-in was also a way 
to call on Regent Sherman, chair 
of the UC Investment Committee, 
to use his position to divest from 
fossil fuels.
Khosla’s declaration is another 
victory for the UC-wide campaign 
for fossil fuel divestment, Fossil Free 
UC. It has been driven by students, 
staff and faculty across the UC 
campuses since 2012.
Students from the Student 
Sustainability Collective, an 
independent Associated Students 
Commission that works on campus 
policy surrounding sustainability, 
met up with Khosla in March to 
discuss UC San Diego’s position on 
fossil fuel divestment. 
Muir College sophomore Aya 
Rosenfeld, co-director of Fossil 
Fuel Divestment at the SSC, felt 
disappointed that Khosla was 
unwilling to be the first chancellor 
to make a statement.
“[Khosla] was reluctant to 
offer his public support because 
he felt doing so would undermine the decisions of the higher-up 
administrators,” Rosenfeld told 
the UCSD Guardian. “He also 
mentioned that because no other 
chancellors had released a statement 
of support, there was no precedent 
for him doing so. He also offered to 
speak to the chief investment officer 
on our behalf, but we’re not sure if 
he actually did. ”
In light of the Board of Regents 
meeting from May 16 to May 18, 
students from the SSC decided to 
send a statement urging Khosla to 
take a public stance on the issue. A 
collaboratively written statement by 
UC San Diego students Sixth College 
junior Natasha Gunawan, Warren 
College sophomore Bryant Jew, 
Muir College senior Mukta Kelkar, 
Muir College sophomore Kathryn 
Link-Oberstar and Muir College 
sophomore Aya Rosenfeld was sent 
to the office of the chancellor. They 
gathered signers of support from 
various offices around campus, such 
as the Associated Students Office 
of the President, Environmental 
Justice Affairs and External Office as well as student organizations like 
Ellie’s Garden and UCSD Surfrider. 
Kelkar, the other co-director 
of Fossil Fuel Divestment at the 
SSC, conveyed the importance of 
Khosla’s statement in the context of 
the University of California’s climate 
work.
“I’m really excited to see 
Chancellor Khosla stand with the 
students and faculty of UC San 
Diego and support UC-wide fossil 
fuel divestment, ” Kelkar told the 
Guardian. “ As a university that 
prides itself on its climate research 
and sustainability efforts, it’s 
important that UCSD encourage 
the UC Regents to stop investing in 
an unsustainable future. Fossil fuel 
companies have too much political 
power in the United States, and 
UC-wide divestment would be a 
powerful way to fight that. ”Chancellor Khosla Declares His Support for Fossil Fuel Divestment
Khosla is the fourth UC chancellor to endorse divesting from fossil fuels after those at UC Davis, UC Santa Cruz and UC Santa Barbara.CAMPUS
BY  R e B E C CA  C H O N G
SENIOR STAFF Writer
ReBECCA CHONG  rCCHONg@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Marcus doesn’t know the Guardian website URL.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Co-Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Susanti Sarkar, Timothy Deng By fostering small group 
discussions on topics of literature, 
Aggarwal believes that Books Behind 
Bars will establishment a sense 
of community within the prison 
population. Opening up discussion for 
debate, the program encourages the construction of skills ranging from 
listening, comprehension, analysis, as 
well as compatibility, a skill central to 
reintegration.
“We want to create spaces within 
the prison that function as open forums 
where you can talk about literally 
anything you want, ” said Aggarwal. “In 
those spaces, volunteers and inmates alike would all be students. ”
The program was made to benefit 
student volunteers as much as the 
prisoners. Students volunteering will 
be educated firsthand on the growing 
issue of mass incarceration and the 
prison industrial complex rather than 
from the typical classroom textbook. 
“Members are able to develop 
teamwork, public speaking, leadership 
and analytical skills in the process, ” Aggarwal said. “Furthermore, they will 
get the chance to be active participants 
in a social cause that is so pervasive yet 
virtually unknown in the American 
conscience. ”
The program is open to 
undergraduates, graduates and staff. 
With plans to host more frequent 
monthly visits beginning in Fall 2017, 
the organization is looking to expand 
its numbers. Students who plan on volunteering must go through a general 
background check as well as training 
for personal security and as how to go 
about facilitating conversations with 
the inmates.  “I think it is a good thing that 
regents are [voting on a] percent 
cap so it can give a fair chance 
to everyone, ” the student said. “I 
should not have an advantage of 
being admitted into a UC [campus] 
because I pay more. However, it 
will affect out-of-state students 
by limiting the amount who can 
come in. I also wonder how the 
University of California system will 
come up with all the extra money 
[nonresidents contribute] since the 
state does not help with all the 
funding needed. ”
Out-of-state Earl Warren College 
junior Diana Cortez told the 
Guardian that she worked as hard or 
more than an in-state student. She 
also said that out-of-state students 
pay more money which helps the 
UC system and that there should 
not be a cap of 18 percent passed.
“...I think that they should not 
put a cap but not accept more out-
of-state than residents and keep 
it that way, but keep it the same 
[percentages as they are now] so it 
can level out, ” Cortez stated. “I do 
not get a GPA boost from honors 
courses, and I actually think it is just 
as hard for in-state and out-of-state 
[students]. I worked just as hard 
as an in-state student. [The UC’s 
diversity] will get less cream of the crop and you will get more residents 
because they are in-state. I am not 
for the [18-percent] cap.
ERC junior Aleksandr Bgatov 
said he is against the proposal 
because it would not allow out-
of-state students to experience 
California and its educational 
system.
“I am against the [18-percent] 
cap because I think out-of-state 
students deserve the opportunity 
to be immersed in the Californian 
experience, ” Bgatov stated. “The cap 
does not even seem that it will 
affect the majority of the campuses 
as far as I know. [As for UCSD, 
UCLA, and UC Berkeley], it will 
just limit the chance of someone to 
experience California’s educational 
system. ”
The policy on nonresident 
student enrollment will allow 
campuses that currently enroll 
a low number of nonresident 
undergraduates to increase their 
proportion. The policy will be put 
into effect Fall Quarter 2017 and 
will make the UC system hold all 
students to the same academic 
caliber.students.
“The bottom line is — the UC 
lied, ” Monteiro said. “It lied to students 
in stating that there were not enough 
funds, so they imposed tuition hikes 
on us, falsely claiming that it would 
be covered by financial aid. Loans are 
not financial aid. Loans put students 
in debt. ”
The outgoing vice president further 
noted that throughout the audit, 
UCOP was lacking in transparency, 
and the protesters wanted to remind 
the administration that students and 
staff are monitoring their actions.
“UCOP interfered in the audit 
process making me question the 
transparency, integrity, and leadership 
of the executives making decisions on 
behalf of students, ” Monteiro stated. 
“Lavish dinner parties costing up to 
a year’s worth of tuition is not where 
taxpayers’ money should be going. 
This was a demonstration to show 
UCOP we are paying attention; it is 
about demanding space for students 
and workers to be included in decisions 
at the UC. ”
According to Kelly Morris, who 
leads UCSD’s Fund the UC campaign 
to improve how the university is 
financed, protests will not solve all 
of the UC system’s funding problems 
alone, but they do show cohesion on 
the issue.
“Prop 13 reform (which is the 
center of Fund the UC) and efforts to 
decrease the cost of a UC education will not happen as a result of public 
demonstrations, but they can help 
guide us toward more consequential 
conversations and more success at 
the bargaining table, ” Morris told the 
Guardian. “They both display and 
cultivate solidarity and support for the 
cause. ”
Inside the meeting, incoming 
Vice President of External Affairs 
Refilwe Gqajela made a statement to 
the regents during the public input 
section, declaring that the “hidden” 
$175 million serves as evidence that 
such policies like free tuition could 
exist. 
“When news of the $175 million that 
was hidden by the UC and uncovered 
by the state broke, there was great 
outrage, but not shock, ” Gqajela said. 
“This news revealed what students and 
workers have known all along. Living 
wages are possible. A tuition for UC 
is possible. As my predecessors at UC 
San Diego have proclaimed since 2010, 
another university is possible. ”
However, Morris notes that the 
Regents do not appear to be receptive 
during the public input sessions, 
which is another reason why protest 
is important.
“In the case of Regents meetings, 
the time for public comment is not 
only disappointingly short but also 
very distant from the Regents: It can 
feel as though they literally aren’t 
listening at times (some were on their 
phones or looking down, for example), 
and they leave the room immediately 
after it is over, ” Morris stated. “So public demonstrations can be the most 
powerful way to get a point across in 
that case. ”
Action in response to the audit has 
been taken at the state government 
level as well. 
With support from California 
State Assemblymember and Chair 
of the state’s Assembly Higher 
Education Committee Jose Medina, 
Gov. Brown proposed on May 11 
that the state withhold $50 million 
of the approximately $3.5 billion the 
legislature annually appropriates to the 
UC system to reinforce the audit. 
Member of the California 
Legislative Analyst’s Office Jason 
Constantouros told the Daily Cal 
that the UC system will receive the 
sequestered money only after three 
conditions are met: UCOP completes 
State Auditor Elaine Howle’s 
recommendations for the Regents 
and the university as a whole prior 
to April 2018, the university finishes 
“the piloting of activity-based costing 
across three university campuses to 
help the state and university better 
assess and reevaluate the cost structure 
of the UC” and UCOP demonstrates 
that almost all campuses are on course 
to enrolling one transfer student for 
every two incoming freshman by the 
2018–2019 school year. 
The next Board of Regents meeting 
will be at UCSF again on July 12 and 
July 13. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ NONRESIDENT CAP ,  from page 1Bgatov: Nonresidents Deserve to Study in California
▶ PROTEST,  from page 1 Governor Jerry Brown Has Also Acted Against UCOP and Napolitano
KEVIN PICHINTE  KPICHINT@ucsd.edu
▶ BOOKS BEHIND BARS,  from page 1Visits to Donavan Will Begin in Fall Quarter 2017LAUREN HOL T  LCHOLT@ucsd.edu
ARMONIE MENDEX  AEMENDEZ@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
On April 25, 2017, the 
California State Auditor’s 
office released a shocking 
report on the budgetary practices of 
the University of California Office 
of the President. It showed that 
UCOP and the Board of Regents 
have been residing in an ivory 
tower miles away from the realities 
facing UC students and workers, 
enjoying exorbitant salaries, perks 
and vacations among other benefits. 
Additionally, the state audit revealed 
that UC President Janet Napolitano 
has been hiding money  — $175 
million — and keeping students 
and workers away from the decision 
table, even interfering with the 
university’s own performance 
review.
The findings are disheartening 
and wildly disappointing for all 
Californians. UC service workers 
are currently being denied much-
needed pay raises and benefits at 
the bargaining table. As cost of 
attendance at UC campuses increases 
with tuition hikes, financial aid is 
being stretched thinner and thinner. 
Students are graduating with more 
debt than ever and facing food and 
housing insecurity at alarmingly 
rising rates. Four out of every 10 
students have experienced food 
insecurity, and a third of them 
reported it negatively impacted their 
studies. Students and workers of 
color have been continually ignored 
and/or dismissed under the guise of 
budget constraints. The gap between 
graduation rates of students of color 
and white students is a staggering 
14–15 percent.
All the while, UC administration 
tells students there is not enough 
money for us,  justifying hikes and 
pushing out members of our most 
vulnerable communities. They are 
telling workers there is no money, 
so they propose no wage increases at 
the bargaining table for the people 
who run the university. Now, it has become clear that the actions 
decreasing accessibility to the UC 
system were not a result of lack of 
funds, but rather a preference of 
our administrators to take the easy 
way out and ignore student voices 
and needs. 
For such a large “public” 
university system, it is absolutely 
appalling that students are prevented 
from knowing and participating on 
the decision of where UC money 
goes to. The bubble that UCOP 
and the Board of Regents have 
been living in has traveled so far 
away from their constituents that 
they have reached a tipping point 
with students, workers, California 
residents, campus administrations 
and our legislative representatives in 
Sacramento.
In the following months 
grappling over the audit, its 
findings, the budget and UC 
oversight will dominate California 
legislature’s discussion of public 
higher education. It’s important that 
these conversations include student 
voices by way of public forums, 
easily accessible office hours and 
student government inclusion in 
high-level meetings. In a display 
of politics and ignorance just like 
the Board of Regents and UCOP’s, student voices have been continually 
ignored by the State. The state has 
been neglecting its higher education 
institutions by only investing an 
average of $8,667 on each student 
in contrast to about $50,000 on each 
prison inmate, begging the question: 
Where are the State's priorities? 
As University of California 
students, we are a huge part of 
California’s future — economically, 
socially and politically. Regents 
and UCOP need to know just 
who they are ignoring: We cannot 
allow our voices to be silenced. We 
demand that our administrators and 
legislators keep in mind the needs 
of their constituents: UC students, 
workers, their families and all of 
California. The last thing we need 
is for the UC system to release 
flowery principles falsely claiming 
to support our communities. It is 
time to institutionally invest in our 
success.
Students should have a voice in 
the budget. These funds dominate 
how we make decisions: where 
and what to study and how to pay 
for it to how many people we live 
with, what we eat and how we get 
around. We need a tuition freeze 
until our administrators can be held 
accountable.In the interest of knowledge 
retention, UC San Diego 
courses should promote skill-
based learning by utilizing grading 
systems based on students’ applications 
of skills. An ideal grading system 
wouldn’t emphasize test-taking skills 
as much as understanding the content. 
This isn’t to say that exams should 
be eliminated, but rather that exams 
should adopt skill-oriented problems 
and account for a smaller percentage of 
the course grade. Skill-based learning 
attaches meaning to grades when 
assignments, projects and exams are 
created with clear goals in mind for the 
students so that an A means that the 
student has mastered a particular skill 
— one that isn’t routine test-taking or 
cramming for exams.
As part of a shift toward skill-based 
grading, professors should give leniency 
to poor grades by offering methods to 
make up points through extra credit 
assignments or exam corrections, with 
the end goal being that students can 
display their understanding of the 
material even after the exam date. If 
students perform poorly on a quiz, 
for instance, professors should allow 
them to receive partial points back by 
creating something like an educational 
Y ouTube video on the concept they 
failed to master, in order to show that 
they are capable of applying it in the 
future. Doing this can give students 
a chance to redeem themselves by 
honing the concepts on which they 
initially performed poorly. This would 
ensure that students are provided 
the opportunity to learn from their 
mistakes in a course for the sake of 
understanding the content and larger 
concepts in the long run, instead of 
trying to cram material for a test and 
moving on without reflecting on the 
skills they have acquired or don’t fully 
understand. 
Project-based assignments should 
also represent larger portions of course 
grades to encourage students to be 
creative and show their understanding 
of course concepts through mediums 
they are comfortable with, such as 
creating a game that incorporates 
certain skills, making a poster or 
crafting an infographic. Rather than 
a timed, grueling test, these projects 
would make it easier for them 
to succeed in the course and help 
with knowledge retention in the 
long-run since students have to fully 
comprehend the material for a longer 
period of time than a one-hour test. 
With the same intent of prioritizing 
students’ understanding of concepts over their performance on tests, 
increasing the number of real-world 
assignments would give students 
opportunities to apply course material 
in practical settings and ensure that 
their knowledge isn’t limited to a 
classroom. Linear algebra courses 
that have MATLAB assignments to 
model real-world data help students 
understand the various applications of 
skills developed from course material 
in diverse settings. This exposes 
students to practices and tools used 
in respective career fields, allowing 
them to gain awareness of how 
course material applies to situations 
both outside of theoretical textbook 
problems and in the future.
Although real-world applications 
and project-based assignments will 
increase retention and grade students 
based on their understanding of 
content, the fact remains that exams 
are a convenient and easy grading 
method in a public university with 
thousands of students, and therefore 
unlikely to disappear. Accordingly, 
one way professors can better prepare 
students for exams — and thus prevent 
students from aimlessly cramming 
— is by providing concept lists in 
preparation for exams, in order to set 
clear goals for students throughout the 
studying process. Providing concept 
lists and practice problems for those 
concepts encourages students to utilize 
metacognition in studying, a method 
that helps students to think about what 
and how they want to study to get a 
better grade, in contrast to immediately 
diving into the studying process and 
trying to retain as much information as 
possible. In a study done by a Stanford 
researcher, students who were told to 
think about how they should study 
performed on average one-third of 
a grade better than students who 
mindlessly studied without thinking 
about the methods they used. When 
students learn to analyze and evaluate 
their own methods and thinking 
through metacognition, they are able to 
improve their studying methods with a 
goal in mind, ultimately making room 
for a more meaningful relationship 
with the content — one that exceeds 
cramming. Ultimately, metacognitive 
testing strategies combined with 
makeup assignments, project-based 
learning and real-world applications 
will help students learn the skills they 
need to survive outside of college.The United States has no 
official state religion, but 
this wouldn’t be apparent 
to the casual observer. We pledge 
allegiance under a God. Our 
money pays homage to a God 
and Christmas, one of the holiest 
days of the Christian faith, is a 
federal holiday. The infiltration 
of this religious dominance has of 
course influenced the corporate 
world, contributing to the modern 
characterization of the U.S. as a 
Christian nation. This is inherently 
against the larger image the U.S. 
tries to portray — that it fosters 
diversity and welcomes any person 
of any creed. These practices, both federal and private, infringe on the 
rights of those of us whose religions 
aren’t Christianity, or who might 
not even practice religion at all. 
The bulk of the religious 
practices currently in the books owe 
their existence and preservation to 
the Cold War. In order to embody 
the antithesis of communism, 
the U.S. truncated the Pledge of 
Allegiance with an “under God, ” 
made all currency establish trust 
in the divine and took every action 
possible to ensure that the U.S. 
brand was perpetually associated 
with God. This had the effect, along 
with reinforcing the Christian 
American narrative, of linking 
capitalism with God and religion, at 
least in a subliminal manner.
The main corporate practice that evokes and perpetuates this tradition 
has little to do with God specifically 
and is oddly enough more linked 
to Christianity specifically rather 
than to a larger deistic identity. This 
practice is the closing of businesses 
on Christian holidays, namely 
Easter and Christmas Day. This 
goes further; many of these stores 
observe these days despite not being 
companies with religious affiliations 
or companies who generally do not 
exhibit whatever affiliation they 
may have. More than a simple 
inconvenience to anyone who may 
not celebrate these holidays, this is 
an example of how the traditions 
that were established by the 
Protestant founders and reinforced 
in the 20th century still reverberate 
today. It should be noted that 
private industry is within its right to 
observe whichever religion it may 
please, but the oddity in this is the 
lack of consistency in its practices. 
At the end of the day, their closing 
on these holidays seems to be more 
closely tied to “Christian” capitalism 
than to actual religious observance.
Although Christmas Day is an 
example of a religious holiday for 
which stores close, ultimately they 
are encouraged to do so because it 
is a federal holiday. This is where 
the hypocrisy at the corporate level 
See RELIGION,  page 5
It is important that these 
conversations include student 
voices; by way of public 
forums, easily accessible 
office hours and student 
government inclusion in 
high-level meetings. BY EMILY ZHAO // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
OP-ED Fund the UC with Integrity 
and TransparencyB Y KELL Y MORRIS //
FUND THE UC CAMP AIGN 
DIRECTOR UCSD
Boosting Knowledge 
Retention through 
Skill-based Grading BY ADRIANA BARRIOS // 
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
The American Identity Crisis 
of Corporate Christianity
The federal government 
needs to stop extrapolating 
in order to accommodate 
blatantly religious 
practices for the sake of 
maintaining tradition.
EMIL Y ZHAO  EMZ002@UCSD.EDU
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UC San Diego
Student Summer Pass
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited  
rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. 
(Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.)
Pass Valid June 6 – September 30  
Online sales only: June 5 – August 3 1
Current registration/enrollment
for Summer Sessions or
continuing students from
Spring 2017 to Fall 2017 required .
For details visit:  summerpass.ucsd.edu
demonstrates a more-inherently 
governmental problem. This isn’t 
the only demonstration of federally 
allowed Christian observances 
either, as many states still carry 
blue laws that prohibit the sale 
of alcohol and carry several 
other prohibitions or stipulations 
on businesses on Sunday, the 
traditionally Christian day of 
rest. These have been contested 
in the Supreme Court and ruled 
constitutional because no one is 
forcing active participation. This 
isn’t a practical argument but rather 
a more ideological conflict. While 
not enforcing Christian practices, 
one is forcing — by way of shutting 
down government and commercial 
activity on these days — the non-
observant to observe simply by taking away their choice to do 
otherwise. A secular nation with 
an ever-increasing non-practicing 
population should not have as 
one of its main holidays the most 
central celebration of the Christian 
faith. This isn’t a question about 
whether or not a day of rest should 
be enforced but rather whether 
the government should continue 
to endorse business practices that 
keep tying it to the Christian faith.
The answer is no. The 
federal government needs to 
stop extrapolating in order to 
accommodate blatantly religious 
practices for the sake of maintaining 
tradition. It is clear that any move 
to make changes against these 
practices is massively unpopular, as 
many people are very attached to 
Christian America. The Starbucks 
“Happy Holidays”  debacle is a perfect example of that; a change 
by a private company to the more 
inclusive holiday greeting created 
outrage online and prompted 
an attempt at a boycott. The 
Christian population of this 
country, however, should not 
be determining federal policy 
regarding religious observance. 
That is fundamentally anti-
American. While these changes — 
separating Christianity from the 
private sector and disestablishing 
Christmas as a federal holiday 
— are not revolutionary and will 
not erase religious discrimination 
and oppression from the day-to-
day reality, they would signify 
a starting point in reaching the 
ideals that were set forth in 1791.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
ADRIANA BARRIOS  A7BARRIO@UCSD.EDU
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
▶ RELIGION  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
It was a small office. Or, at least it seemed small, 
being tucked away behind the corner of the rising 
Pepper Canyon Hall. The interior was no different. 
Small notes lined small frames which were tucked away 
in small spaces. The only thing large about the office 
was the art that lined the walls, almost completely 
hiding the white stone. This is very much a reflection of 
its owner — a Ms. Mary Beebe, who is small in stature 
but has large visions and ideas. These ideas are not only 
reflected in the artwork that frames the outlines of her 
office, but also in the artwork that frames the UC San 
Diego campus — namely, the Stuart Art Collection. 
The Stuart Art Collection lies around the entirety of 
the campus. It encompasses the Sun God statue that sits 
large and looming over the field, the small televisions 
that are overrun by weeds and tall grass, the blue V forms 
that run through a canopy of trees, the glaring virtues 
and sins that illuminate Warren Mall. This collection 
represents not only the pieces of art scattered around 
the campus, but also the spirit of art and creativity in a 
school very much focused on scientific research. 
And this is all thanks to Mary Beebe. 
Mary Beebe, the art director for the Stuart Art 
Collection, has been working at UCSD since 1981. 
Throughout her time here, she has not only helped 
facilitate the entirety of the Stuart Art Collection but 
has also sought out artists and commissioned them 
(alongside an advisory board), even raising all funds for 
the collection herself. Working alongside the collection’s 
founder, James Stuart DeSilva, as well as many other 
people, Beebe has been able to watch the collection 
thrive and grow. 
“What do I think about each of the artworks? I love 
them all, ” Beebe said with a laugh, “They’re sort of my 
babies … They all speak to me in different ways because 
it’s been such a personal experience of working with 
these artists and getting to know them and their work. ”
This experience does not only ring true for people 
such as Mary Beebe who directly work with the art, but 
it also resonates with the average community member 
or student or faculty who passes by the works every 
day. The fact that the pieces are scattered throughout 
the campus itself rather than concentrated into one 
sculpture garden gives people the opportunity to have a 
hands-on interaction with the collection on a daily basis.
“They’re for everybody — they’re not just for students. 
The community, the bigger community, faculty, literally 
everybody. They’re placed there to think about it if you 
want them. It’s not about taste, it’s about quality. We 
want high quality artists and high quality ideas … Little 
boys were coming in when I was talking — there must 
have been a boy scout troop — to some other people, and this little boy … said to me 
— he hadn’t a clue who I was — 
he said, ‘do you know how cool 
this is?’”
So what does this “cool” 
collection consist of — as termed 
by the little boy? Aside from 
the most famed ones — Sun 
God, Fallen Star, and Bear — 
artist John Baldessari's “READ/
WRITE/THINK/DREAM” is 
probably one of the most overlooked pieces in the 
collection. This is ironic namely because thousands of 
students see this piece every day. Located at the entrance 
of Geisel Library, “READ/WRITE/THINK/DREAM” 
consists of panels of glass that hold pictures of students 
and books, glass that is tinted in shades of the primary 
colors, and glass that contains the words “READ, ” 
“WRITE, ” “THINK” and “DREAM. ” Put together, the 
piece is meant to represent how students and literature 
make up the university’s foundation.
“What I elected to do was — because I’ve taught 
pretty much all my life, as a means to support myself — 
and I thought, Why don’t I, instead of using elements 
taken out of movies, deal with students, ” Baldessari 
remarked. “That’s pretty much what I did. Students 
either standing or sitting, frontal or side view, left and 
right. Those are elements. ”
Speaking of unnoticed pieces, enter the two violet 
v-forms that run through the eucalyptus grove right 
next to the faculty club. This piece, entitled “Two 
Running Violet V-Forms” by artist Robert Irwin, is most 
known by the student body as the “giraffe catchers. ” Yet, 
these twin forms have a lot more meaning than what 
meets the eye. In fact, they appear to be different at any 
given moment in the span of a day. 
“I walked the campus, which is what I always do, ” 
Robert Irwin stated. “In this particular case, I felt the 
architecture and layout of the campus; there was nothing 
really special about it — nothing except the stands of 
eucalyptus trees. To me, that’s what you remember. 
It’s the one thing that distinguishes the campus … So 
then I came down with the question of, OK, what can 
I do in this space? … The idea of coloration was quite 
interesting — that every time you walk through those 
stands of trees at different times of day, they are a 
different color. They go from almost a nondescript gray 
to violet and to green, and they get a kind of golden 
quality at certain times of day, from the sunlight. So the 
idea was also to sort of heighten the experience of color. ”
Another piece in the Stuart Art Collection is the 
“Vices and Virtues” piece by Bruce Nauman, which consists of the seven 
vices and virtues displayed in bright neon against 
the Charles Lee Powell Laboratory in Warren Mall. This 
has by far been the most controversial piece to grace 
the campus collection and was contested by several in 
the community before it finally came through. This was 
namely because of the use of neon.
“The people just didn’t want neon in their 
neighborhood, ” Beebe recalled. “The City Councilman 
called a press conference at the theater and declared 
that ‘if the university were to allow LUST up there in 
neon it would incite infidelity in the community. ’ When 
the newspaper called to ask me what I thought, I said, 
‘There are 14 words up there; why did he choose LUST? 
Doesn’t that say something about him?” Beebe said 
incredulously. “Some people actually were in favor of it. 
Mandel Weiss actually loved the idea. ” 
Currently, the Stuart Art Collection consists of 20 
different pieces, all spread throughout the campus. All 
20 have passed through the small little office in the 
midst of Sixth College, where new ideas and plans are 
constantly being generated. In fact, a new project set to 
go up in Revelle by early next year is already in motion. 
It is through art that UCSD continues to be an 
environment of learning — not just academic learning 
but visual and creative learning. The Stuart Art 
Collection is not only a “hidden gem” amongst UCSD’s 
notorious gray buildings, but also benefits students in 
that it allows them to know more about and thus aid the 
academic part of their university experiences. And, just 
as importantly, art is what lasts. As expressed by Mary 
Beebe, “ Art outlasts politics. That’s why I care so much. 
Because what do we think about the past? Michelangelo. 
Who knows who were the tsars in Italy at the time of 
Michelangelo? … But you know that Michelangelo 
made incredibly beautiful things and that it’s worthwhile 
looking at them. ”
by Madeline Park // Contributing WriterThe Stuart Art 
Collection: 
Creativity in 
a Scientific 
Setting
“ Art outlasts politics. That’s why 
I care so much. ” - Mary Beebe
Madeline P ark  map048@ucsd.eduFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD Guardian
Find  us  online  @
UCSDguardian.orgA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // BRITTNEY LU & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
College students are notorious for being constantly stressed 
out, and at UC San Diego, this is an all-too-common 
sentiment. In a survey of 50 students at UCSD, Lifestyle 
researched how much stress affects the student body on a weekly 
basis, what on-campus resources are being utilized and what 
insight students had to offer to bring a more holistic approach to 
student wellness on campus. 
According to the most recent survey, when asked to rank 
weekly stress levels on a scale of one to five — one correlating 
with feeling “minimal stress” and five corresponding to feeling 
“extremely stressed” — a majority of students fell within the range 
of three to five, indicating a relatively “average” to “very” stressed 
feeling on a weekly basis. 
Student demographics and major fields were not recorded, 
indicating that the general student population — regardless of 
being STEM or non-STEM, year in school and any other self-
identifying factors — felt at the least, a perceptually average amount 
of stress and at the most, extremely stressed. Retrospectively, this 
speaks into a more general consensus that the university’s climate 
itself and common shared identity as a UCSD student facilitates 
stress disregarding any other identifiable confounding factor.
Breaking down the stress typology more, most students 
reported stress associating with academics, with relational or 
personal concerns coming up next, followed by organizational or 
structural issues and finally, work and/or family adding to student 
stress as well. Noticeably, these stressors were often accumulating 
and simultaneously occurring, affecting not just one sector of a 
student’s life, but multiple, and often in synergistic patterns. 
Ninety-eight percent of students surveyed stated academic 
burdens were the primary cause of stress. Generally, as full or part-
time students, this would make sense — exams, lectures, readings 
and homework are a universally accepted and foundational source 
of stress for attendees of a university. But what is often overlooked 
is that other stressors play into the holistic and mental well-being 
for students as well. At the same time, students reported that 
roughly 50 percent of co-occurring stress comes from their social, 
familial, relational and personal lives, 40 percent coming from 
extracurricular or structural burdens and about 30 percent as a 
result of part-time jobs or family. These compounding factors 
only exacerbate the pre-existing academic stress, but might often 
remain invisible to the campus eye. 
But when it comes to utilizing resources on campus to cope 
with various and layered stressors, only 25.5 percent of students 
take advantage of university-provided student health and well-
being resources while 74.5 percent do not. Reported coping 
mechanisms include UCSD-provided mental health services, 
such as Counseling and Psychological Services, identity-specific 
resources (like the Raza Resource or Women’s Center) and more informal approaches, including Therapy Fluffies provided weekly 
by the Zone, reaching out to friends or even trips to the beach. 
However, roughly two percent of students surveyed were not even 
sure about what resources UCSD provides for student holistic 
health and well-being. 
Furthermore, when looking into personal responses to coping 
with stressors, there was a range of emotions, solutions and 
perspectives. A majority of students surveyed would mention 
“sleep, ” “shutting down” or apathetic withdrawal when facing high 
levels of stress. Other students mentioned exercise, meeting up 
with friends, religion, “perspective shifts, ” music or nature as ways 
to deal with the cumulative burdens of being anxious or stressed, 
with only a few students reporting the use of on-campus facilities 
to address mental health or counseling. 
Drawing upon the student body’s personal experiences, 
Lifestyle asked the surveyed students what advice they would 
offer in order to create a university climate that is more conducive 
to improving mental health and stress mediation at UCSD. Here’s 
what some of our peers had to say:
“I have no idea what resources [the campus] has. More 
advertisement of resources would be helpful. ”
“It would be cool to see the implementation of a campus-wide 
requirement for students to take on at least one stress-reducing 
activity of their choosing, or to at least learn ways to diminish and 
better cope with stress. ”
“Increasing the accessibility of CAPS to students and social 
gatherings to help with effects of loneliness. ” 
“More massages and spaces to nap!”
“Change the effect of the high-stress culture and mindset at a 
university. ” 
“CAPS is not as accessible as it needs to be. I went through 
a mental/emotional crisis in winter quarter, and the earliest 
available appointment was three weeks out. To think that I was 
‘lucky’ to get an appointment in that time frame is astonishing to 
me. Three weeks is such a long time when you're living through 
the quarter system. By the time I got to the appointment, I had 
had to resolve my issues the best I could by myself. I eventually 
got the help I needed through CAPS, but I didn't get it even close 
to when I needed it the most. The staff at CAPS is great, but the 
system itself is disappointing. ”
“ A lot of The Zone's events are really cool but so understaffed 
or small that a lot of students can't participate. I wish they had 
larger events that actually accommodated all interested students. 
I'm talking yoga, meditation, free coffee or tea, more appointment 
time slots with CAPS and informal ways to talk to CAPS that are 
less daunting. ”
So while the school culture is (rather unfortunately) one that 
thrives off of stress, the prevalence and etiology behind student-
experienced stress is far too high and increasingly straining 
on student well-being and health. Perhaps a reframing of the 
university’s climate coupled with increased structural resources 
might change the narrative of what it means to be a student and 
diminish the notoriety of stress at UCSD. The st a tisticS behind students and stress
B y Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
41.2%
Fell within  the  range 
of  "Av er ag e to ve ry" 
st re ss ed33.3%
Re po rt ed an  "Av er ag e
Amount  of st ress"25.5%
Re po rt ed "Ext re me ly 
St re ss ed"Self-Reported 
Amount of 
StressAc ad em ic s
Wo rk
Fa mi ly
Re la tionsh ip s
Or gs
Pe rs onal97%
29 %
27%
49 %
39 %
47 %Stress TypologyLIFESTYLE                       T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  2 2 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
A good friend once said that design is the ultimate form of per -
formance art, that the spatiality and physical layout of architecture 
is the implicit way of structuring human behavior. W alkability and 
pathways facilitate intrigue and guidance into particular places, and 
transparency of windowed buildings can incite invitation while 
open, communal spaces facilitate gathering. Outdoor green space 
can mediate stress and rest, and interior design can promote mind -
fulness or creativity. Essentially, individual choices and responses, 
resilience or vulnerability, are all shaped and geared to respond to 
the external environment.
One of the increasingly popular approaches to rethinking urban 
design is called “the salutogenic effect, ” or the practice of designing 
and constructing to promote wellness, both physically and mentally. 
It engineers a physical layout that facilitates the relationship between 
body and space, taking internal needs and magnifying them into 
types of buildings, streets, parks, homes and districts. In what is 
known as “the built environment, ” it is perceived by urban designers 
that the spaces people occupy are conducive to whether or not they 
have the capacity to make the choices that facilitate a holistically 
healthy lifestyle, build social support networks or find a sense of 
belonging. 
Simultaneously, however, the built environment can also mani -
fest the opposite effect. Holistically healthy environments often 
become privileged or sparsely disconnected between the needs of 
the people and the construction of the physical environment. Rather 
than promoting social support networks and belonging, spaces can 
be built with walls, separated or ill-placed to prevent gathering and 
community building. So when one considers the design and inten -
tionality behind how UC San Diego was constructed, it is worth 
wondering if the layout is one that promotes or resists stress.
For the 30,000 or so students who attend or live at UCSD, how 
then, does architecture affect the lived experiences of the student 
body? When a lecture hall is only 10 minutes away from a residen -
tial area, can one truly feel “at home”? Architectural journalist Jane 
Jacobs promotes the philosophy of mixed use areas to increase diver -
sity in use, people and space; but at UCSD, many might respond that 
while there’ s a sense of convenience in living near, and even at, where 
one studies, there might also be a heightened sense of anxiety that comes with being unable to find a space to detach from the stressors 
of school. And with a lack of efficient public transportation, if one 
doesn’t have a car, there’ s also the possibility of feeling “trapped” on 
campus. Especially since UCSD and La Jolla itself are physically and 
geographically so segregated and isolated from the rest of San Diego. 
Beyond where one lives, there is also the question of whether 
or not UCSD has enough safe spaces, health resources, recreational 
areas or gathering places for the student body to have a life 
outside the classroom. Even if there is a place to stay, 
there is not a guarantee that there is an associated 
feeling of belonging, bringing up the question 
of whether or not certain resources, 
and particularly for students of 
color, are doing enough for 
our student body. 
At UCSD, the 
immense 
sprawl 
of build -
ings across 
the span of its 
topography makes 
connectivity challeng -
ing, with open and public 
spaces to gather being too few 
and far between — for instance, 
consider the distance between Revelle 
Plaza and Price Center Amphitheater. 
Furthermore, the natural landscaping of 
UCSD itself is a challenge to maneuver. Hills, 
lack of shared pedestrian and biker pathways and 
the terrain itself can pose a barrier to even walking 
around on campus. 
So returning to the idea of a salutogenic envi -ronment, does the space at UCSD facilitate the promotion of student 
wellness? Or does it create a place to study, work and research, with 
the rest of design falling as an afterthought? 
Questions, concerns or thoughts? Email us at lifestyle@ucsd -
guardian.org!UCSD TOPOGRAPHY - A LOOK INTO SP ACE AND 
STRESSB y Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor10                                               T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  2 2 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
How to Live 
Your Life b y an 
ESY S Major: 
Sust ainability and 
Ment al Heal th  
by Nadia Link // Staff Writer
From fashion to food, this column has discussed the wide and colorful world of environmental 
sustainability. It is a topic that I am very passionate and fairly knowledgeable about, but this time 
around I will be shifting gears to something a bit more finite in scope: your sustainability. By that, what 
I mean is that I will be writing about how to take care of your mental health in order to sustain a healthier 
state of being. See? Sustainability!
As a young, innocent 22-year-old about to enter the real, adult world in one month, the only thing I know 
about mental health is how I dealt with my own over the past four years at UC San Diego which, as you 
know, makes me an expert. In my four years at UCSD, I met some of the most stressed individuals I have ever 
encountered. It is a stressful campus, but I think part of that is the push for that magical and elusive GPA. 
There is a mystical and powerful chant for those of us who aren’t planning any academic endeavors after 
graduation. It goes something like, “Cs get degrees. ” Essentially, if you aren’t going to graduate school or 
pursuing a specific degree-based job, it is OK to get Cs and Bs. My stress load and thus mental health greatly 
improved when I came to this realization. 
If you don’t have the luxury of not thinking about school past graduation, then grades usually have an 
intense impact on your psyche. There is nothing quite like the sensation of getting a 40 percent on an exam, 
having a breakdown about a failing grade, then realizing that the average was 30 percent, making your grade 
passable. To be honest, I always handled this stress by going out and taking a walk, or cooking or doing 
anything I enjoy that would take my mind off academics. This, of course, doesn’t always work, and that is 
when it is great to turn to family.
The people who care most for you are the people who want to know about you and your state of being. 
When the stress seems unbearable, a conversation with someone who cares about you beyond what grade 
you have in organic chemistry can make a huge difference. It is good to remind yourself that there is so much 
more to life than grades. If you are not mentally healthy, things can often get worse. It may not always seem 
like the truth, but grades mean nothing if you aren’t happy and life seems overwhelming.
For the most part, we go to college because it will help us to get to a point in our lives where we believe we 
will be happy. If you lost sight of that goal because of how overwhelming life is today, then you should take 
the time to step away and evaluate your mental state and what you can do to bring yourself back to where you 
felt happy or satisfied with your current life.
Sustainability isn’t only about the environment but also about yourself. Take the time to consider if you can 
sustain the level of stress and pressure you are under for a period of time. If you find that you can’t, there is 
nothing wrong with asking for help! You will be all the better for it. 20%
Student
Discount
With a valid student ID, get 20% off 
your entire purchase every 
Wednesday . 
6830 La Jolla Blvd, Ste 101 
La Jolla - CA 92037   Tel:(858)291-8071
www.laclochetteducoin.com  La Clochette du CoinA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
- v v
Playwriting is a complex 
process, taking many forms 
and yielding a diverse array of 
styles and artistic approaches. 
To Steph Del Rosso, a first-
year in UC San Diego’s M.F .A. 
Playwriting program, artistic 
creation is an externalization of 
internal thoughts and ordinary 
observations.
Del Rosso’s writing process 
is unique to each of her plays, 
but a question or idea always 
forms the genesis of her projects. 
“It starts with an obsession or 
something that’s been bothering 
me, and then I go into dialogue, ” 
she told the UCSD Guardian. 
For her most recent project 
“ Are Y ou There” — premiering 
as part of the Wagner New Play 
Festival — Del Rosso derived 
inspiration from a phone 
conversation. “I ended up 
transcribing that conversation 
and then I thought, ‘Maybe 
there’s something here; maybe I 
should dig into this more. ’”
“ Are Y ou There?” investigates 
a long-distance relationship 
between two people over the 
course of a decade, but the 
evolution of technology and 
forms of communication span 
several decades. “We’re on a 
journey with these characters as 
they develop their relationship 
but we’re also tracking how 
technology manipulates and 
distorts our relationships with 
one another, ” explained Del 
Rosso.
In the digital age, theater 
works as an antidote to a device-
obsessed world. “When you’re in 
a play you have to disconnect, ” 
Del Rosso said. “I think theater 
is able to retain our ability to be 
present and in community with 
one another, which is one of the 
things that draws me to it to begin with. ” Concerning technology’s 
increasing presence in theater, 
Del Rosso is open to artistic 
innovation but skeptical of over-
accommodating the shortened 
attention spans of technology 
culture. “I write really fast-paced 
work that moves through time in 
a way that embraces that sensory 
overload, so I think there are 
ways of embracing this shift in 
attention spans –– but you also 
have to complicate it. ”
The playwriting program 
at UCSD has given Del Rosso 
the opportunity to immerse 
herself completely in her work. 
“When I was living in New Y ork, 
I had multiple part-time jobs 
and there just wasn’t enough 
time and space to devote to 
my writing, so the fact that the 
program here provides a fully-
funded opportunity to just write 
and teach is amazing, ” she said. 
The small program allows for 
individualized attention from 
the professors and a collaborative 
environment, which has fostered 
the formation of a close-knit 
cohort of student writers. “ And 
it has pushed me to create more 
work, ” Del Rosso added. “If I’m 
working on this Wagner play 
but I’m in a class where I’m 
supposed to write a completely 
different play and present pages 
every week, then I’m going to be 
held accountable to that, so the 
sheer structure is helpful. ”
Del Rosso’s plays fall 
primarily under the umbrella 
of dark comedy. Her stylistic 
preferences are driven by 
her worldview but also by a 
commitment to the craft. “I 
want to observe and interrogate 
real things that happen between 
people, but I also want to be 
aware constantly that we’re in a 
theatrical space and ask, ‘What are the possibilities for things 
to get weird or scary; what are 
the risks we can take?’ Most of 
my work integrates something a 
little surreal or bizarre. ”
For a playwright, 
collaboration is a key tenet of 
the creative process. “I think that 
something that was instilled in 
me pretty early on by mentors of 
mine is that it’s dangerous to feel 
like your work is too precious. 
Particularly with something 
like theater, ” Del Rosso said. She 
emphasized the importance of 
working with a team and getting 
comfortable sharing drafts. Del 
Rosso spoke fondly about her 
collaboration with Zora Howard 
— an M.F .A. Acting student and 
the director of “ Are Y ou There?” 
— saying, “She leads the room 
really effectively, but she’s also 
really diligent about making 
sure that that we’re on the same 
page. The director-playwright 
relationship is a tricky one. But 
when you get that match that 
works, it’s great. ”
Del Rosso tries to avoid 
controlling the reception of her 
plays . “Y ou have to obviously 
take care of the audience, but 
I try to not focus too much on 
expectations of what I want 
people to feel or how I want 
them to respond just because 
I never want to prescribe an 
experience to them, ” she said. In 
her ideal scenario, Del Rosso’s 
audience leaves the theater with 
disparate and lasting reactions. 
“Hopefully my plays linger in 
people, not necessarily because 
they liked them, but if they stay 
with people and if they’ve given 
them something to think about, 
or question, or maybe even 
disagree with or if it just stays in 
their mind, then that’s exciting 
to me. ”Interview with a Playwright: 
Steph Del Rosso
For playwright Steph Del Rosso, richness lies in the mundane and theater is a 
space in which to both reflect and expand upon everyday human interaction. By Maya Kleiman // Staff Writer
12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
“Baby Teeth” and “ Are You There?” use comedy to reflect on the impenetrable nature of human identity and the pitfalls of technology.PHOTO COURTESY OF JIM CARMODY
“We all end up pulp. ” This 
is the dominant motif 
of the bleak comedy, 
“Baby Teeth. ” Part of the New W agner 
Play Festival, “Baby Teeth” exposes 
and investigates our self-destructive 
tendencies to stifle our true desires 
in order to satisfy the demands of 
domesticity. 
The play takes place in the home 
of the quick-witted, renowned 
painter Elise (Hannah Finn) and her 
husband Rod (Sidney Hill), a reclusive, 
artistically-unenlightened real-estate 
agent. With the entrance of Elise’s new 
personal assistant, Dave (Enrico Nassi), 
their gilded lifestyle is revealed to be 
cloaking unspoken fears and desires. 
From a traumatic childhood to a secret 
artistic expertise to a clandestine love 
affair, the characters’ hidden afflictions 
and aspirations start to bubble to the 
surface, and Dave is the catalyst for the 
concurrent destruction of all of their 
facades.
Geyer expertly couches intellectual 
concepts and the characters’ 
arcane psychological features in colloquialism, mundane interactions 
and metaphor to create an intimate 
portrait of domesticized humanity. 
In one particularly comedic moment, 
Rod shocks everyone when he comes 
home with tomatoes from the farmers’ 
market. The tomatoes turn out to be a 
very big deal. They serve as the physical 
embodiment of the domesticized 
identity Rod — Elise and Dave, too, 
for that matter — has assumed. 
The set itself screams bourgeoisie: 
hanging shelves adorned with a 
hodgepodge of household items 
including a coffee maker, an excessive 
amount of miniature potted plants and 
abstract metallic sculptures and pairs 
of beige leather shoes lined up neatly 
near the couch.
Scene transitions are guided by a 
monotonous chopping noise. At first, 
the sound is identifiable as vegetables 
being systematically sliced on a 
chopping board. However, it could 
also be taken for a ticking clock — 
a playful jab at bourgeois household 
activities and a simultaneous reference 
to impending doom and the machine-like conformity of domesticity, creating 
a sense of foreboding.
Tensions mount to explosive 
levels, and soon enough, all secrets 
are revealed in a clash of events that 
triggers the sound of Elise blending 
Rod’s locally-sourced tomatoes to a 
pulp — leaving audiences to reexamine 
those scene transitions, among other 
things. 
The play’s exploration of 
unexpressed human desires reveals 
that the lies we tell ourselves to 
appease our existential anxieties can’t 
be sustained and that the simultaneous 
obliteration of our fabricated identities 
and social constructs is inevitable. 
“Baby Teeth, ” like its characters, is 
steeped in ambiguity, and it lingers.
———  
“ Are Y ou There” takes a different 
approach to the modern love story. Del 
Rosso utilizes tempo and imaginative 
technological inventions to create a 
fresh, consistently funny and poignant 
examination of the parameters and 
potential of human intimacy.
The young and ambitious Adam (Allyn Moriyon) and June (Kimberly 
Monks) both land their dream jobs, 
which happen to be on opposite sides 
of the country. Their predicament 
and intense determination to weather 
the separation incites a journey 
through time, space and technological 
advancements. The play unfolds as 
an exploration of humans’ attempts 
to connect to each other via various 
modes of communication. 
Initially, things look promising. The 
career couple plans video-chat dinner 
dates, engages in regularly scheduled 
phone calls, devises new and comical 
ways to simulate sexual intimacy 
and gushes over their respective new 
jobs. However, as Adam and June’s 
relationship moves through FaceTime, 
virtual reality, holograms and 
eventually implanted chips that allow 
them to hear each other’s thoughts, 
fissures begin to emerge in their East 
coast-West coast love affair. June 
loses her cellular connection, Adam 
misremembers their first date and 
technology proves itself to be as much 
their enemy as the passage of time and space. 
Time moves quickly in the play, 
sometimes spanning years in a matter 
of seconds. The quick pace mirrors 
the frenzied nature of technology 
while keeping the audience intensely 
engaged. Midway through the show, 
the two meet in person for a highly 
anticipated reunion that is ultimately 
less than sweet. Their awkwardness is 
palpable and their passive-aggressive 
attempts to rekindle their desire for 
each other are laugh-worthy but also 
profoundly crushing. 
The play’s contemporary 
dialogue and references to modern 
communication make its message all 
the more resonant. Despite the show’s 
intermittent moments of humor, Adam 
and June’s asynchronous evolutions 
contribute to a fairly grim ending. We 
are left to ponder what went wrong 
and whether the promise of the honest 
connection June and Adam sought 
after is truly attainable.
—   MA Y A KLEIMAN
 Staff WriterPLA Y  REVIEW
Director   Jon Reimer
Writer   Ava Geyer
Starring  Hannah Finn, Sydney Hill, Enrico Nassi
Rnns   May 12–May 20
Location   Arthur Wagner Theatre
Director   Zora Howard
Writer   Steph Del Rosso
Starring   Kimberly Monks, Allyn Moriyon
Rnns   May 12–May 20
Location   Arthur Wagner TheatreARE Y OU THERE? BAB Y TEETH
Ridley Scott’s sequel to “Prometheus” is a demonstration of the consequences of plot-mandated incompetency and of foreboding atmosphere.PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
Horror films often require 
incompetence as a 
fundamental flaw that allows 
the story to progress in the proper 
direction. This isn’t necessarily a 
criticism; interesting character 
development is best for imperfect 
individuals. Incompetence highlights 
the unfortunate yet truthful 
inconvenience of human relationships: 
exposure to both the pleasant and 
disdainful natures of people as well as 
the attendant consequences. However, 
films must walk a fine line between 
tragedy and facepalm-inducing farce. 
Ridley Scott’s return to the “ Alien” 
franchise after almost 40 years has 
trouble maintaining this balance.
Case-in-point: the premise, 
which leads the titular ship into an 
encounter with one of cinema’s most 
iconic (and deadliest) species. The Covenant, a colonial frigate carrying 
2,000 hibernating colonists, is on its 
way to the habitable Origae-6 when 
a solar flare disrupts its systems. The 
event draws the 16 (now 15 after an 
unlucky crewmember is incinerated 
in a malfunctioning pod) man crew’s 
attention to a near unintelligible 
transmission from a closer planet, 
conveniently an equally viable system 
for colonization. Disregarding the 
risks, the Covenant’s acting captain 
(Billy Crudup) redirects the ship’s 
course towards the world for study 
and potential settlement. It should 
be noted that the film’s tragic and 
distasteful events could have been 
perfectly avoided had an authority 
figure not made an inane judgement 
call.
The now doomed expedition crew 
then falls into predictable archetypes. However, this crew has no history, and 
a crew without history is merely a set 
of bodies with distinguishable visages. 
Any understanding to be found in 
each character is more easily seen 
promotional advertising than in the 
film itself. No individual undergoes 
critical personal development, at least 
as it appears. The closest the film has 
to a protagonist is Lieutenant Daniels 
Branson (Katherine Waterson), who 
fits as a replacement Ripley. She 
carries the initiative and competence 
that invites her to grow into the 
survivalist of her peers, and the film 
attempts to make this explicit. Y et, she 
spends half the film spectating the 
wonders and horrors of the new world 
with little screen time and spends the 
other 50 percent attempting to quash 
a virulent bug. Everyone else either 
has their limbs separated from their torsos or becomes an unwilling host.
Actually, there is one exceptionally 
well-developed character in the film, 
but his role is integral to its plot. 
Mentioning him (or his return) would 
give away too much.
This leaves the audience with 
the story’s admittedly fascinating 
progression. As much as the film 
overuses thriller tropes, it still provokes 
a grim satisfaction derived from 
slaughter and reaction. Incompetency 
does induce headaches, but the results 
are always delightful. Y es, the best 
thing to do when dealing with a chest-
burster is to lock it inside a quarantine 
room with a crewmate, as it is equally 
reasonable to trust someone’s word 
that a Xenomorph egg is perfectly 
safe to gawk at! Unfortunate victims 
transform into sundered ligaments 
and uncanny cadavers while scientific equipment is trashed and vehicles 
undergo extreme stress tests. The 
Xenomorphs themselves are as sleek 
and hostile as they’ve ever been. This 
abattoir finds time to be artistic as 
well. The variety of mythological and 
historical metaphors present in the 
film is tenfold, from references to the 
sonnet “Ozymandias” to the “Entry 
of the Gods into Valhalla” from “Das 
Rheingold. ” 
“ Alien: Covenant” isn’t devoid of 
flaws, but it isn’t devoid of cheap 
thrills either. On the contrary, the 
pleasure derived from the odd blend 
of gore and science-fantasy is a 
difficult sweetness to absolve oneself 
of. 
—   DA VID DE LEON
 Staff WriterFILM  REVIEW
Director   Ridley Scott
Starring  Michael Fassbender, Katherine Waterson, Billy 
Crudup, Danny McBride, Carmen Ejogo, Demian Bichir
Release Date   May 19, 2017
Rated   R  C+ ALIEN: COVENANTCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE 
DANCE COMPANY 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUMTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 22 - MAY 282017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 5.22 WED5.24THURSDAY 5.25  • 8pm
THU5.25
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE5.23
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
2pm
FROM RESUME TO INTERVIEW - 
BEAR ROOM, PC WEST
Through this workshop, participants will gain 
knowledge on how to format and what to include 
on cover letters and resumes. Additionally, we 
will explore how to translate experiences and 
qualifications in an interview to land the job! 
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://ilead.ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
REAL WORLD CAREER SERIES: 
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS - 
COMUNIDAD ROOM, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
A resume and cover letter is your introduction to 
a prospective employer. Learn how to articulate 
your experience and involvement in a way that 
will leave the employer wanting to learn more 
and land a job interview. Contact: 
gmiramon@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://bit.ly/2qqBltO
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS: 
CARLSON AND KARIS - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Distinguished Professor Aleck Karis and 
Assistant Professor Erik Carlson will present a 
concert as part of the Department of Music's 
ongoing Wednesdays@7 concert series. The duo's 
program will consist of works by Johann 
Sebastian Bach, Milton Babbitt and Johannes 
Brahms.
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
SENIOR SEND-OFF - PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM WEST
IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN! Get ready for 
Senior Send-Off, an annual University Centers 
tradition to bid farewell to our beloved Seniors! 
Senior Send-Off is open to all classes, so make 
sure to invite your friends! ***TICKETS ON SALE 
WEDNESDAY (5/4) @ THE BOX OFFICE IN PRICE 
CENTER!!*** $10 (+ box office fees) for UCSD 
Students
LINE-UP: - Giraffage, - Elephante  w/ opening 
from DVC. Doors/Show: 8PM, Price Center 
Ballroom West *This is a closed campus event, 
UCSD Students only.*2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: FLOURLESS 
PB, OAT, BANANA PANCAKES - THE 
ZONE
Join us as we learn to make flourless peanut butter, 
oat, and banana pancakes! Materials and 
ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
IT INNOVATIONS FOR IMPROVING 
GOVERNANCE IN AFGHANISTAN - 
SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER 
CENTER AUDITORIUM
Mobile phones and mobile money are 
revolutionizing finance and governance in some of 
the world's poorest and most unstable countries. 
Joshua Blumenstock (School of Information, UC 
Berkeley) and Michael Callen (Rady, UC San Diego) 
will describe three projects in Afghanistan that 
investigate ways in which development engineering 
can be brought to bear to improve governance. The 
presentation highlights how the confluence of 
mobile technology,financial service innovation, and 
big data analytics are opening up exciting new 
frontiers in the struggle to improve the welfare of 
citizens and government employees in the 
developing world. This PDEL Innovation Workshop is 
free and open to the public. Reception follows at 
6:30 p.m. Contact: mthiveos@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://pdel-workshop-2017.eventbrite.com
5pm
FRESH SPRING ROLLS - UNIVERSITY 
LUTHERAN CHURCH
Join instructor Allison Tran in making some fresh 
spring rolls! Fee: $25 Register Here: 
https://shoprec.ucsd.edu/ 10am
UCSD FARMERS' MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic 
food vendors have a little something for 
everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our 
all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town 
Square on Myers Drive.
1pm
WALK-IN HOURS WITH STUDENT 
LEGAL SERVICES - COMMUTER 
LOUNGE IN PRICE CENTER
Are you in need of assistance with your lease or 
have any other legal troubles and concerns? 
Come out to the Commuter Lounge in Price 
Center next Tuesday for FREE walk-in legal 
advice! Attorney Jon Carlos Senour, director of 
Student Legal Services, will be there to provide 
advice on any legal concerns that you may have. 
+No appointment needed! +Snacks provided! 
Student Legal Services (SLS) is a free resource to 
registered UC San Diego students and student 
organizations. Services include confidential 
counseling, education, and referrals on all types 
of legal matters. SLS also offers weekly 
preventive legal education clinics on 
landlord-tenant issues and other legal topics 
throughout the year. 
4pm
DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES 
PRESENTS: MARTHA FELDMAN - 
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
RECITAL HALL
The Department of Music's Distinguished Lecture 
Series is proud to present a lecture by Martha 
Feldman, a Mabel Green Myers professor of 
music and the humanities at the University of 
Chicago's Department of Music. Feldman will 
present a lecture titled, "The Castrato Phantom: 
Moreschi, Fellini, and the Sacred Vernacular in 
Rome" on Tuesday, May 23, 2017 at 4 p.m. A 
light reception will follow.4pm
CSI AWARDS & CELEBRATION - 
THE LOFT, PC EAST
Come celebrate at this very special ceremony 
honoring organization and leadership 
accomplishments for the academic year. It's open 
to the entire campus and free to attend, just be 
sure to RSVP . Food and refreshments will be 
provided. Business attire is encouraged. Contact: 
getinvolved@ucsd.edu 
8pm
BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE 
DANCE COMPANY AT 
ARTPOWER - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
UCSD Student: $9 The Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane 
Dance Company was born out of an 11-year 
collaboration between Bill T. Jones and Arnie 
Zane, who passed away in 1988. During this 
time, the two dancers redefined the duet form 
and foreshadowed issues of identity, form, and 
social commentary that would change the face of 
American dance. The Company has performed 
worldwide in over 200 cities in 40 countries on 
every major continent, and is recognized as one of 
the most innovative and powerful forces in the 
dance-theater world. The Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane 
Dance Company returns to UC San Diego with 
Play and Play: An Evening of Movement and 
Dance.  Both are accompanied by live music. 
Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://artpower.ucsd.edu/event/bill-t-jonesarnie-z
ane-dance-company/FRI5.26
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Friday International Cafe is a weekly lunch hosted 
by the International Center featuring a different 
country every week, where students, faculty, and 
staff can learn about the culture as well as enjoy 
a representative cuisine of the featured country. 
Invite your friends for a fun lunch and a plate full 
of delicious cuisines for $5 a plate!
6pm
THE INTERMISSION ORCHESTRA: 
OPEN REHEARSAL - PC WEST 
BALLROOM
Understanding how an orchestra functions can be 
intimidating. How is it possible that eighty people 
can come together to perform harmoniously and 
hold a spectacular, two-hour concert? Such a feat 
should be comparable to herding cats! The 
Intermission Orchestra hopes to shed light on how 
people in an orchestra, even one as diverse as 
ours, work together to make music. We would be 
delighted to invite you to our Open Rehearsal, a 
unique opportunity to watch us prepare for our 
Spring 2017 Concert less than a week away. 
Contact: ysye@ucsd.edu (510)456-5600 Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/281789475613
753/
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Be concerned
5. Competent
9. Watch face
13. Kind of vaccine
14. Gather, as grain
15. Actress Jane or Bridget
16. Points at the target
17. Mean one
18. Parcel out
19. TV interviewee’s clip-on
21. Trumpet sound
22. Author Fleming
23. Team member
24. Cold sufferer’s sounds
28. ‘’Olé, ’’ for example
30. Video-store rental
31. Ill-gotten gains
32. Explosion sound
36. 9 Down, in quantity
37. Reveals
38. ‘’__ la Douce’’
39. ‘’Gee!’’
40. December 24 and 31
41. Goes on the lam
42. Notions
44. Hair stylists’ employers
45. Grade better than a C
48. Collection
49. Big T-shirt size
50. Fax-machine plug
56. Eye-bending painting
57. Smallest of the litter
58. Succulent houseplant
59. Female voices
60. Actor Sharif
61. Femur or fibula
62. Prepared to hit a golf ball
63. Agile
64. Assembly instructions partDown
1. Old furnace fuel
2. Opera solo
3. Freeway exit
4. Otherwise
5. Pleasant smells
6. Get started
7. Carefree escapade
8. Fencing sword
9. Where to see George Washington
10. Dental work
11. Really like
12. In a few hours
15. Story from Aesop
20. Vitality
23. Collies and canaries
24. Urban pollution
25. It’s taboo
26. Currier’s partner
27. Angler’s gear
28. Apple centers
29. Farm implements
31. Molten rock
33. Triple-decker cookie
34. Seer’s sighting
35. Church service
37. Honey handlers
41. Destiny
43. Songs for two
44. Military guard
45. Overfill
46. Syrup source
47. Angry
48. Sub tracker
50. __ and cons
51. Camel feature
52. Boxing punches
53. Very much
54. Funnel shape
55. RetainGARAGE SALE
Area Rugs....3 dining chairs (Jamul) - Area 
Rugs, Used! Multiple colors, styles, sizes $5.-
$20. Shop early for best choice. 3 unique 
wood dining chairs, large style, decorative 
trim, white wash $45. Carpets, flooring, 
decorative, decorations, kitchen, dining, 
living room. Listing ID: 312431402 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Household items/PLANTS - A few sets of 
NEW bamboo cutting boards. eight x 10 
and twelve x 18. (Costco currently is selling 
a set of smaller bamboo cutting board for 
14.99) I am selling a combo for just $7.00 
!!!!! CHICCO Baby stroller, in good condi -
tion but missing seat pad, Cost 199. selling 
for 20.00, NICK NACKS, two paddle ball 
rackets, thick piece of beveled glass for a 
table top, 2’ wide and 3.5 ft long, a dozen 
picture beginning reading books, two rac -
quetball rackets and a can of ball 15.00, 
strings in terrific condition. NEW in box, 
AT&T 710 white business phone 10.00,used 
but in good condition, clean white toilet, 
20.00, LOTS of potted plants, succulents 
and cacti, small and large. TERRIFIC PRICES. 
Call show contact info for info and address. 
PLEASE DO NOT text or email. I will only 
answer phone calls. Listing ID: 312431406 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Garage Sale Bargains - 2 racket ball rackets 
and three balls, strings are in attractive 
condition, $5.00 for all 3. 2 PADDLE BALL 
RACKETS, A few sets of NEW bamboo cut -
ting boards, 12” X eighteen “ and 8x10 , 
(Costco is currently selling a set of smaller 
Bamboo cutting boards for 14.95) selling 
a set for just $6.00, picture frames, CHICCO 
baby stroller in attractive condition, 199 
retail, selling for just 20.00, missing seat 
pad, new 4 x 8 piece of 1/2” drywall cut in half $5.00, 1 very clean working , com -
plete white toilet, $20.00. A dozen or so 
beginning reading books, nick Knacks, 
ALSO lots of quality potted plants and 
larger cacti and succulents for landscaping, 
two feet BY 4 ft THICK PIECE OF BEVELED 
GLASS, NO CHIPS, CRACKS OR SCRATCHES, 
used replacement umbrella cover in forest 
green, call if you wanna come by and take 
a look. available most day time hours. show 
contact info I will open the garage on the 
street if you call and want to come by and 
take a look. PLEASE do not text or e mail, 
MAKE AN OFFER AND TAKE IT ALL Listing 
ID: 312431403 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
PETS
Mini Schnauzer Puppies - 995.00... - $995.  
Mini Schnauzer Puppies 2 months, tail 
docked, veterinarian checked, current on 
vaccinations certificate included. Call or 
text 619-535-6362. Listing ID: 315020396 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - 1000.00... - 
$1000.  Adorable and playful Olde English 
Bulldogge pups born on Aug 06 2016. The 
pups will come vaccinated and dewormed. 
Please be in touch for info on rehoming 
fee. Ready to go home to a loving family. 
Both parents on site.  Listing ID: 315020205 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Bullys Puppies - 700.00... - $700. I have 6 
puppies for sale purebred razor edge 2 
months old ready firts shots and dewormed 
big bone,big shest, big head parents in side 
for more information at 619 942 4852.  
Listing ID: 314074528 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationROOMMATES
Room for rent University City - $550. 
Looking for a subletter from now till August 
31 (dates are flexible). Apartment is located 
in Plamor. Will possibly sharing room with 
1 other, and apartment with 4 total. Some 
details: Rent: $550/month utilities included 
(as a double, $1000 as a single) Price nego -
tiable! Plenty of parking. Personal Closet. In 
house washer/dryer unit. 1.5 bathrooms. 
Message me if you are interested, want to 
see pictures, or have any questions! Listing 
ID: 315311764 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Room for rent Park West - $950. Beautiful 
furnished room for rent with queen size 
bed! Flat screen TV in room with cable TV, 
microwave, fridge, wi-fi, hard wood floorin 
and complementary coffee every morning 
Friendly on site staff with on-site laundry, 
patio and BBQ area. All Utilities included! 
Close to the San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, 
San Diego Zoo, Balboa Park, Westfield 
Horton Plaza, USS Midway Museum, Fish 
Market Restaurant, San Diego Convention 
Center, San Diego Air & Space Museum 
and Petco Park. The Chadwick Manor offers 
great value, location, and hospitality to 
San Diego locals and world travelers alike. 
Come enjoy an inexpensive, yet, classy 
lodging experience whether it be short or 
long term. The Chadwick Manor is located 
at Seventh Ave and A St. In the heart of the 
financial district in downtown San Diego 
close to some of San Diegos best and most 
eclectic restaurants, coffee shops, bars. $80 
dayly! $250 a week or 950 a month! $250 
Deposit! Listing ID: 315311732 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Room for rent Mira Mesa - $600. Room 
for rent Mira Mesa. Listing ID: 315311727 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
seriously because we all know who will ultimately 
make it to the finals. While there is certainly some 
validity to that point, I think that the existence of 
the Superteams doesn’t take away from the quality 
of basketball found in the other playoff series. As 
a fan of the sport of basketball and not just a fan 
of a team (Go Lakers!!), I’m conscious of the fact 
that great basketball is played by every team in the 
playoffs and not just by the Superteams.
Take, for instance, the Wizards-Celtics series in 
the second round. It had a stellar John W all versus 
Thomas matchup that gave us the opportunity to 
watch two top guards in the league duel it out. As 
someone who plays basketball, there is so much 
within every series that I can look at and learn 
from. For example, both guards have a playstyle 
geared heavily towards attacking the rim off off the 
pick-and-roll, with Thomas having a slight edge 
in the jumpshot department. There is so much 
to learn from the individual games that no one game ever loses its appeal for me. I can watch how 
both W all and Thomas attack the defender off the 
pick-and-roll and look at the options they take 
based on what the defense gives them. All of this 
makes for an exciting basketball, even if I believed 
that neither team would have a chance against the 
Cavaliers.
So what is it that I love about the almost one-
sided basketball games that we are seeing? It’ s 
witnessing domination. It’s watching players who 
are at the top of their game pick apart and destroy 
their opposition. From a player’ s perspective, it’ s 
like when you’re feeling good one day and no one 
can stop you. Everything just seems to work — the 
ball always finds the net, no one can defend you, 
your passes are all on time and spot on. There 
is something alluring about watching greatness 
unfold, and I think that attraction is being fulfilled 
by the Superteams. 
The results of the regular season provide even 
more ammunition to show that the Superteams 
are not detracting from the sport. W e had Russell 
Westbrook average a triple-double across the entire  
season, and he might not even win the Most 
V aluable Player award. Hell, he’ s not even in the 
playoffs anymore! James Harden decided to switch 
playstyles from being an isolation scorer to a point 
guard over the summer. 
Herein lies the beauty of the beauty of 
the Superteams: They show us the frontier of 
basketball’ s evolution. They are at the top because 
they bring the best iteration of offense and defense 
that currently exists in the game. They’re able to 
accommodate the presence of multiple superstars, 
which was rather difficult for most teams to do 
before (take a look at the 2010–2011 Heat, who 
were still trying to balance Chris Bosh, Dwyane 
Wade and James). The quality of basketball has  
grown so much in spite of the whole “Superteams 
are destroying the sport” narrative that people are 
pushing because those very same teams are driving 
the evolution of the sport. 
It might not be too fun as a fan to watch the 
Cavaliers or the W arriors crush your home team. 
But try and soak in the basketball that those two 
teams are giving us. If you don’t, you might just 
miss out on watching the game evolve right before 
your eyes.
Today we have the Cavaliers and the 
Warriors as the leaders in this rat race. James 
has his pals Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love, 
while the Warriors, who already had plenty 
of stars like Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson 
and Draymond Green, decided to woo Kevin 
Durant into joining. Durant made the decision 
to leave his already-very-good Oklahoma City 
Thunder because he didn’t want to compete for 
a championship anymore and just wanted to 
coast to the finish line and pray that he could 
beat James. An interesting strategy…
The NBA is boring now when someone 
like Durant decides all they care about is 
winning a championship. If he had stayed with 
OKC and eventually won a championship, it 
would’ve been seen as a showing of strength 
and perseverance, but he decided to just take 
the easy way out and join an already superb 
squad. That’s a move that players make when 
they’re 40 and about to retire — not 28 and in 
the prime of their career. James is guilty of this 
too, of course, having abandoned Cleveland 
for Miami’s enticing Dwyane Wade and Chris 
Bosh.
It’s times like these that I can turn to 
players like Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant 
or Dirk Nowitzki. They all stuck with their 
teams to get their championships and never 
jumped ship because yes, they wanted to win 
a championship in their careers, but also they 
wanted to grow, learn and compete with the 
team they were given. I wish Durant or James 
could’ve done that.
 The other side of this says Superteams 
are making the league more exciting, more 
enjoyable to watch. And I understand that too. 
It’s like getting to watch the all-star game during 
the actual regular season and playoff games. 
Of course, the all-star game is inherently less 
competitive because they don’t have to care 
when they play — just as the league is becoming 
as a result. We love to see people who are good 
at what they do work together to create magic. 
But, everyone in the NBA has the ability to 
create magic, not just the Superteams. 
So, now I ask, why do we watch basketball? Is it to see the Cavaliers, Warriors, and sometimes 
Spurs get to the Finals and win every year? I’m 
bored. I miss loving the game. I want to see 
blood, sweat, and tears drip from each player 
on a team that has truly worked hard to play 
together as a unit and not just some group of 
superstars who wouldn’t admit that they don’t 
have to work as hard to beat everyone else. 
I want to see the wildest basketball dreams 
realized with effort put in — not taking the easy 
way out. I want that sense of wonder back.The two“Superteams” are undefeated in the 
playoffs so far without a hurdle in sight.LeBron James has not been eliminated by an 
Eastern Conference team since 2010. 
from AGAINST , page 16 from FOR, page 16
Reese Morgenstern  rmorgens@ucsc.edu
Richard lu  ril014@ucsc.eduPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTEOn Thursday, the UC San 
Diego baseball team began 
its West Regional NCAA 
Division II Championship run 
against Dixie State and defeated 
its opponent with a 5–2 victory. 
Next up for the Tritons on Friday 
was Azusa Pacific who came into 
the tournament as the second seed 
and tournament host. However, 
the home-field advantage made 
no difference as UCSD grabbed a 
convincing 4–0 win to move on 
to the quarterfinals. The following 
night, the Tritons faced off against 
Azusa Pacific again and, this time, 
won with a 11–3. As a result, the 
Tritons booked their ticket to the 
Monday West Regional semifinal 
against the same opponent they 
opened the tournament with, Dixie 
State.  
Game 1 
Redshirt senior pitcher Troy Cruz took the mound for the 
Tritons in the tournament opener 
and pitched a complete game to 
earn the 5–2 win over Dixie State. A 
three-run blast from redshirt senior 
outfielder Brandon Shirley and a 
two-run double by redshirt junior 
first-baseman Justin Flatt were 
enough to get the job done on the 
opening night of the tournament.  
UCSD came into the West 
Regional as the fourth seed while 
Dixie State was ranked at the third 
seed. However, the Tritons looked 
in control of the game throughout, 
and a solid pitching display from 
Cruz with a couple of crucial 
offensive plays got the team on the 
scoreboard.
The Tritons took the lead in 
the third and never looked back as 
Dixie could not inch their way fully 
back into the game. After a three-
run third inning from the Tritons, Dixie earned one run of their own 
in the bottom of the inning to make 
it 3–1. Then, Dixie cut the lead to 
one in the sixth, 3–2, but UCSD 
responded in the eighth inning with 
two runs to put them into a winning 
position.  
Game 2
Cruz had already put on a solid 
shift on Friday night, however the 
following night redshirt senior 
pitcher Adrian Orozco put on an 
absolute clinic versus Azusa Pacific, 
throwing a one-hit complete game 
to earn the Tritons a dominant 4–0 
win.  
With the home crowd advantage 
against the Tritons, Orozco was not 
fazed, taking a no-hitter into the 
ninth inning. He could do nothing 
wrong the entire night as he left 
the opposition and its home crowd 
silent throughout. Unfortunately, 
Orozco could not keep the no-hitter for the last two outs of the game, 
when the next hitter hit a single up 
the middle take away his no-hitter 
bid. However, the most important 
fact of the night was that the Tritons 
earned the win and kept their 
tournament hopes alive and well.
Game 3
On Saturday night, the Tritons 
found themselves in front of the 
same opposition once again, Azusa 
Pacific, and the result was no 
different as UCSD took a convincing 
11–3 victory over the hosts.  
The story of the tournament 
for the Tritons has been their 
dominant pitching and that did 
not stop in their third game in as 
many days. Redshirt junior pitcher 
Kyle Goodbrand got the start and 
only allowed three hits and two 
runs in his 6 ⅔ innings of work. 
Redshirt freshman pitcher Blaine 
Jarvis and sophomore pitcher Kyle Lucke relieved Goodbrand and did 
a fine job, both splitting the last 2 ⅓ 
innings of the game and allowing a 
single run and a single hit. 
 UCSD started off the game 
with back-to-back two-run innings, 
followed by a single run in the third 
to hold a 5–2 lead. By the ninth 
inning, the Tritons were up 11–2 
and were in total control of the 
game with only three outs to go.  
They had no problem dealing 
with the Cougars and earned their 
bid into the West Regional final on 
Monday, where they will face off 
against Dixie State one last time in 
order to make it to Texas.  SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 22, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Daniel HERNANDEZ  DAH043@ucsd,edu
BASEBALL
Tritons 
Rolling 
in NCAA 
Regionals
The UC San Diego baseball 
team has gone 3-0 by 
defeating Dixie State and 
Azusa Pacific twice.
by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff Writer PHOTO BY HENRY CHEN
Why do we watch sports? Is it 
for the love of the game? Y es. 
Is it to watch players who 
devote their entire lives to the sport get 
to realize their dream? Y es. And of course 
the sweat — don’t forget all that sweat.
At the end of the day, we sports 
fanatics love to watch competition and 
see every team go out on its court or field 
and discover which team has the will to 
win. There’s an inherent sense of wonder 
when you watch any sport — you always 
want to know what happens next. So, 
what if I told you that right now, in the 
NBA, any one of us basketball fans could 
predict how each season will end? Every 
team competes as hard as it can only to 
lose to the exact same teams every year. 
Y ou’ d think I was lying, especially coming 
from a league that preaches “Where 
Amazing Happens” as its slogan. Sadly, 
the league has changed and now the only 
“amazing” that happens is the amount of 
money the players receive to play.
There are these weird mythical beasts 
called “Superteams” that have become the 
new trend in the NBA. It’s all about getting 
a trio (at least) of players together on one 
team and just letting them dominate. One 
could argue that this whole thing began 
with the San Antonio Spurs having Tim 
Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili as their “Big 3, ” but the trend did not truly 
take off until 2007. It all started when the 
Boston Celtics acquired Ray Allen and 
Kevin Garnett to have them join the still-
great Paul Pierce. In the past 10 years, 
owners and GMs have decided this is the 
new way to make a team in the NBA and 
frankly, it’s destroying the game we all 
know and love.
Maybe some out there enjoy watching 
these Superteams just coast through the 
82-game regular season and then the 
playoffs, but most fans of the game never 
became fans because they wanted to keep 
watching one team blow out the other 
over and over. Since 2007, Lebron James 
alone has left his hometown Cleveland 
team in which he was the lone star, 
joined a Superteam in Miami and then 
returned to his home only to form 
another Superteam. He could only win 
a championship once he went to Miami.
Believe it or not — the last time a team 
other than a James team, Spurs team, 
or Warriors team won a championship 
was my favorite basketball team — the 
Dallas Mavericks. In 2011 the Mavericks 
shocked the world and defeated the 
heavily favored Miami Heat. A team 
made up of scrappy players and one 
superstar like the olden days. No team 
has been capable of doing so since.As of Sunday, May 21, the Golden Stat e 
W arriors are 3–0 against the San Antonio 
Spurs, and the Cleveland Cavaliers are 
2–0 against the Boston Celtics. Barring some sort 
of divine intervention, both the W arriors and 
the Cavaliers will be 12–0 heading into the NBA 
Finals. It seems as if this year’s finals matchup 
is destined to be another rematch between the 
W arriors and the Cavaliers. 
Both teams are stacked to the brim with 
talent: Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson, Kevin 
Durant and Draymond Green on the W arriors 
and LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love 
for the Cavaliers. Both teams are built for the 
playoffs; their star players have the potential to 
instantly take over and crush the opposition. 
James, whom I believe has the potential to 
cement himself as the “Greatest of All Time” by 
the end of his career, has demonstrated a level 
of dominance unheard of since the Jordan era. 
He’s pretty much a lock for his seventh straight 
finals appearance, so I think it’s fair to say that 
literally, no one can stop him. I’m not too big on 
numbers, but I will give you one set of numbers 
you should never forget: 3–1. Last year, in the 2016 
NBA Finals, James willed his way to a third NBA 
championship by defeating the W arriors. 
On the other side are the Golden State 
W arriors, who have two of the greatest shooters 
the game has ever seen after adding Kevin Durant 
to their roster this past summer. The addition 
of Durant gave fans a reason to complain — the 
already star-studded team was getting another 
star. Now, it seems like there are the Cavaliers, the 
W arriors, and then everyone else, and the results of the playoffs so far have proven this to be true. 
But this is not a problem. 
Why? To me, it’s a matter of enjoying great 
basketball. Both teams are operating on a level 
in the playoffs that most other teams cannot 
compete with in a seven-game series. Take the 
Cleveland versus Boston game that took place on 
Friday — Boston had no chance against Cleveland 
whatsoever. The performance that the Cavaliers 
gave was a sight to behold. Let’s take a look at the 
statlines of some of the Cavaliers’ players for game 
two of the Eastern Conference Finals to give their 
performances some context: James with 30 points, 
four rebounds, seven assists, four steals and three 
blocks; Kyrie Irving with 23 points, one rebound, 
three assists, one steal and one block; and Kevin 
Love with 21 points, 12 rebounds, two assists and 
one steal.
On other side, The Celtics were led in scoring 
by rookie Jaylen Brown (19 points) who didn’t 
even break 20 points. Their star player, Isaiah 
Thomas, scored a measly two points and exited 
the game with an injury. 
Going into halftime, the score was 72–31, 
thanks to the Cavaliers’ Big 3 (James 22, Irving 
14, Love 18). Here, we see the strength of the 
Cavaliers as a team — there is always one star 
who is producing when the others are not. Game 
two is enough to show us what happens when all 
three stars show up. The Cavaliers/W arriors are 
Superteams because of the fact that the opposing 
team cannot hope to contain all of their weapons. 
An argument can be made that having two 
teams dominate the playoffs every year makes the 
game a bit stale: The other series aren’t really taken Are “Superteams” Good for the NBA?
Can We Bring Competition 
Back To The NBA?
by Reese Morgenstern // Contributing WriterCompetition is Alive and Well in the NBA
by Richard Lu // Staff Writer
SeeAGAINST  page 15 SeeFOR page 15AT Dixie State (NCAA Regionals)
AT NCAA Championships
AT NCAA Championships5/22
5/25
5/26UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES11 AM 
TBA
8 AM Baseball
Track & Field
W Rowing