VOLUME 50, ISSUE 33   MONDA Y , APRIL 17, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SLEEPERS AND 
DREAMERS
Ever wonder what that weird 
dream means or what happens 
to your body as you crusade 
into that dark, all-nighter? Read 
on fellow dreamers to get a bit 
of signiﬁcance and sarcasm 
when it comes to sleep. 
PUTIN'S   PEDEST AL
BASEBALLPOWER  THROUGH  PORTRA Y AL
UCSD  v s. Cal  Pol y  PomonaOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“WE SHOULD BELIEVE THAT 
YOUNG AMERICAN CITIZENS 
TOGETHER WITH YOUNG 
RUSSIAN CITIZENS CAN STOP 
DISASTROUS PROXY WARS 
SUCH AS THE ONE IN SYRIA 
AND ELIMINATE EVEN THE 
OPPORTUNITY OF A LARGE-
SCALE WAR BETWEEN TWO 
NUCLEAR-ARMED COUNTRIES”
- Rivka Gershovich
Putin The Vulnerable
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  ...2
COLLEGE COSTS..............4
FEATURE  ......................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. TENNIS  ..................... 15lifestyle,  P AGE  10
ILLUSRTATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
MONDAY
H 70 L 61TUESDAY
H 71 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 56THURSDAY 
H 70 L 56
A study commenced in 2011 by 
researchers at UC San Diego recently 
yielded a possible vaccine that could 
reverse the acne-causing effects of 
propionibacterium acnes, a form of 
bacteria that plays an influential role in 
the development of acne.
UCSD dermatology professor and 
lead researcher of the study Eric C. 
Huang explained in an email interview 
with the UCSD Guardian that his 
realization that some dermatologists 
were prescribing antibiotics or steroids 
to kill the P . acnes bacteria is what 
served as the catalyst for the study. 
“I am asking myself why no one 
developed a vaccine targeting this 
bacterium, ” Huang said. “Before 
conducting this study, my work was 
supported by the National Institutes 
of Health to create a vaccine against 
anthrax spores related to the biodefense program in the U.S. Since I am good at 
vaccine development, [I] thus decided 
to create a novel vaccine to treat acne 
vulgaris. ”
Acne is caused by hormone changes 
that occur during the transition into 
adolescence. According to the National 
Health Service, acne is most prominent 
in girls ranging from ages 14 to 17 and 
in boys ranging from 16 to 19. The 
hormone changes that occur within 
this time period enable the face to 
produce oils that P . acnes bacteria feed 
off of, making the face a breeding 
ground for P . acnes bacteria.
“The oily skin creates a perfect 
biological environment for the growth 
of P . acnes, ” Huang stated. “The 
overgrowth of P . acnes can cause an 
accumulation of the secreted toxin 
Christie-Atkins-Munch-Peterson 
factor, leading [to] inflammatory acne 
vulgaris. Our data indicates that the 
level of CAMP factor toxin correlates 
well with the severity of acne vulgaris. ”Huang additionally explained the 
difficulties of creating the vaccine to 
fight the P . acne bacterium, as the 
bacterium is known to show some 
potential benefits. 
“P . acnes is a skin commensal 
bacterium, ” Huang said. “Everyone 
carries this bacterium in their skin. 
Data in our previous publication 
showed that P . acnes counteracts 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus, a bacterium that causes 
infections in different parts of the 
body. ” 
The vaccine will target the 
drawbacks of P . acnes, which are good 
for your body to a certain extent.
“P . acnes turns bad when our 
skin produces too much oil. ” Huang 
stated. “Thus, we are creating an acne 
vaccine which can neutralize CAMP 
factor toxins released from P . acnes. 
We are not creating a vaccine which 
directly binds to P . acnes bacteria and Muir Musical 
Performs Spring 
AwakeningCAMPUS
A rock musical set in 19th 
century Germany. the play was 
done by a student cast and crew.
The annual Muir Musical Spring 
Awakening opened on Saturday 
night and will continue to perform 
throughout the week, concluding with 
a special matinee performance on 
April 15. The annual student-directed 
and produced musical theater event is 
the largest on campus.
This year’s performance is based on 
the 1891 play of the same name, which 
Director Nicole McEntee describes as 
a coming-of-age story.
“It centers around adolescents 
exploring their sexuality and identity, ” 
McEntee told the UCSD Guardian. 
“They face taboo topics as they try to 
understand what it means to be in this 
world while being suppressed by adults 
or the system of adults. ”
McEntee believes that these issues 
are still prevalent today, despite how 
readily available information is.
“ Although we are exposed to a lot 
of knowledge through social media 
and the internet, there are still so many 
people who don’t know what sex is, 
or feel like they can’t talk about their 
sexual preferences, ” McEntee said. 
“This show focuses on the those trying 
to understand what they’re feeling but 
can’t because they don’t have people 
answering questions for them, or they 
don’t feel like they can ask questions in 
a safe space. ”
Spring Awakening debuted on 
Broadway in 2006 as a rock musical 
set in 19th century Germany and 
has lyrics derived from scriptures 
from the Bible and other literature. 
McEntee explained that the difference 
between setting and accompaniment 
furthers viewers’ understanding of the 
performance.
“The scenes take place in the 19th 
century even though the songs are very 
contemporary and modern, ” McEntee 
said. “This contrast between being in 
the present versus being in the past 
isn’t used to further the plot like in 
most musicals, but is used to get an 
inside look into the characters’ minds. ”
Research affiliate at UC San 
Diego Biological Sciences Constance 
Lin appreciated the contemporary 
issues that were presented in Spring 
Awakening.
“I thought the musical was thought 
provoking, and the dance was a curious 
but interesting addition, ” Lin said. 
“Even though the setting was 19th 
century Germany, the issues brought 
up are still relevant today. ”
McEntee mentioned that the 
interpretive dancers were an addition 
that she hoped would further 
the connection to the character’s’ 
subconscious.
“I felt that adding a lyrical dance 
ensemble to visualize the emotions 
the characters are experiencing would 
be a beautiful combination, essentially 
letting the characters have a mirror 
image of themselves, ” McEntee added. 
“ As you sit and watch a song being 
sung, you see dancers communicate 
what is going on with their body … Elections Manager Announces A.S. Elections Results
The A.S. Elections Committee announced 
the results of the 2017 A.S. and college 
council elections Friday evening at Round 
Table Pizza after voting officially closed at 4 
p.m. that same day. Lesly Figueroa of Students 
Determined won the race for A.S. president, 
beating out independents Aaron Dalton Burgess, 
Dennis Yeh and Gus Guerrero. Refilwe Gqajela of 
Students Determined and Matthew Arrollado of 
THRIVE won Vice President External and Vice 
President of Campus Affairs respectively.
The student body elected Aseel Sherif Ali, Sné 
Lochan, Miguel Angel Tapia, Monica Valdez and 
Itsi Sanchez Rea as its five campus-wide senators, 
with three coming from the Students Determined 
slate and two from the THRIVE slate.
In the off-campus senator election, Katya 
Avendano and Leony Mijares emerged victorious, 
while in the transfer senator election Kristiana 
Cuevas secured the most votes. The next 
academic senators will be Freddy Arriola for social sciences, Amy Henderson for arts and 
humanities, Nhi Nguyen for physical sciences, 
Anika Balse for biological sciences and Colin 
Feeney for engineering.
Advertised as a coalition of progressive student 
leaders, the Students Determined slate received 
10 of the 16 A.S. election spots available while 
THRIVE, which ran on a platform of reforming 
campus leadership and pursuing initiatives that 
will continue to affect students for years to come, 
got five.
Incoming A.S. President Figueroa told the 
UCSD Guardian that she is thrilled to see the 
results of all the candidates’ hard work.
“I’m really excited to see all the work and 
all the effort people have done come into 
fruition, ” Figueroa said. “Looking into the future, 
everything that we have talked about, everything 
we have said — those things are going to happen, 
especially with me and Refilwe. ”
The overall voter turnout rate was 18.74 B y Lauren  HOl t  News EditorA.S. Election 
The potential vaccine will neutralize the toxins released from the P . Acnes bacteria that cause acne.See ELECTION , page 3
SCITECH
BY  A r m o n i e  M e n d e z
Staff Writer
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
Senior Staff Writer
UCSD Researchers Create Possible Vaccine for Acne
Jake Rupe Jr. pitches during the baseball team’ s home game against Cal Poly  Pomona on Friday. UCSD lost 9-3. Photo by Henry Chen // 
UCSD GuardianTRITONS
See MUSICAL , page 3 See VACCINE , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla(cannot be
combined)$100 OFF
$75FOR ONLYof any order over $550
10 mini burritos (you 
pick any 2), 10 cheese 
enchiladas, chips, salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce.$150FOR ONLY Large taco tray
(36 tacos), rice, 
beans, chips salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17EXP 7/5/17
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.orgSPIRIT PARADIGM By Michi Sora
Neurocysticercosis is a 
parasitic disease in the central 
nervous system that causes cysts 
containing parasitic larvae of 
the pork tapeworm to form in 
the brain, which affect neural 
functions, cause seizures, and can 
be fatal in some cases. According 
to the U.S. Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, there are 
about 1,000 hospitalizations every 
year due to neurocysticercosis 
in the United States, with the 
majority of them occurring 
in California, New Mexico 
and Texas. The World Health 
Organization estimates that about 
five million people worldwide 
have neurocysticercosis and 
that 50,000 die from the disease 
every year. While presence of 
the disease has decreased in 
developed countries due to 
industrialization and implemented 
health checks, cases are being 
diagnosed increasingly in North 
America, Europe and Australia 
due to immigration from endemic 
areas. Neurocysticercosis is 
estimated to be the cause of 50 
percent of acquired epilepsy cases 
in developing countries and is the 
most common parasitic nervous system disease in the world.The 
disease is currently designated by 
the WHO as a neglected tropical 
disease. 
Neurocysticercosis is caused 
by the pork tapeworm Taenia 
solium. Humans can get infected 
with the parasite by ingesting the 
parasite’s microscopic eggs spread 
by someone with an intestinal 
pork tapeworm or by drinking 
contaminated water. If someone 
were to eat undercooked pork 
that was infected, they would 
be infected with a tapeworm 
in their intestines. If they then 
observed poor hygiene habits and 
cooked food, the microscopic 
eggs would be passed from their 
hands into the food that others 
would consume. Those consumed 
eggs become larvae in the body 
when gastric acid in the stomach 
degrades their protective covering 
and then they start to invade the 
local tissues to form cysts. If the 
larvae succeed in entering the 
muscles, eyes and skin, they cause 
cysticercosis which is cysts in 
normal body tissue. If they enter 
the central nervous system, they 
cause neurocysticercosis — the 
most severe form of the disease. 
Neurocysticercosis is most 
commonly first seen in seizures 
or headaches. Seizures typically affect those between ages 20 and 
50, and are the first-seen symptom 
for about 70 to 90 percent of 
acute cases diagnosed, caused 
by active cysts in the brain. 
Headaches can signal increased 
pressure inside the skull, fluid 
buildup, or inflammation of the 
brain and spinal cord. A small 
percentage of those affected will 
also develop abnormalities in their 
gait, visual ability or mental states. 
The symptoms for each case 
vary depending on how the cysts 
progress, either degenerating or 
calcifying where they are located, 
and also depending on where in 
the brain the cysts develop. 
To diagnose neuroc ysticercosis, 
brain imaging must be used to 
view the location of the cysts as 
well as determine which type 
each cyst is, because everything 
affects how the patient is treated. 
MRIs provide the most accurate 
image of the brain’s anatomy and 
shows the cysts clearly, but a CT 
scan more clearly depicts calcified 
cysts. If neurocysticercosis is 
suspected, both tests are usually 
conducted for a full picture of the 
infected brain. 
Treatment of 
neurocysticercosis is fluid, and 
each case could require a different 
combination of the possible treatments depending on the 
severity of the symptoms shown 
and the stages of the cysts present 
in the body. Possible treatment 
measures include anti-epileptic 
drugs to control the seizures, 
surgical procedures to remove the 
cysts such as neuroendoscopy for 
the cysts that are easily reachable 
and anti-inflammatory drugs 
such as corticosteroids to control 
inflammation of the brain and 
anthelmintic medications, which 
stun or kill the parasitic worms in 
the body to get them out without 
causing much damage to the 
infected host. 
There are trials currently 
being performed to determine 
if prolonged periods of one or 
many of the treatment options 
are more effective than current 
methods, but so far no significant 
results have been released. The 
U.S. Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention is developing 
better tests to quickly diagnose 
cysticercosis and advise health 
professionals on diagnosis and 
treatment, and are continuing 
efforts to spread education and 
awareness of the disease in the 
general public and hospitals alike. Neurocysticercosis Major Cause of  Epilepsy in Developing Countries DISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY  R e v a t i  R as h i n g k a r
Contributing Writer
Rev a ti Ra shingkar  rrashing@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Season 1: The Guardian, Episode: 
Rosina is Missing. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel WalkerThe parasitic disease affects the central nervous system and is contracted from consuming pork tapeworm eggs in food or water.eliminates all P . acnes. ” 
For women, forms of contraception 
such as birth control have been known 
to alleviate the effects of acne as well. 
However, Huang noted that there is a 
difference in the two treatments.
“[The] vaccine will not alter the 
hormones in our body. The change 
in hormones could cause side effects, ” 
Huang said. 
According to Huang, the next step 
in the study would be to receive a 
budget in order to begin clinical trials, 
which will determine if the vaccine can 
fully prevent acne development.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ScHoolboy Q
DJ Mustard • Bad Suns • Khalid 
Manila Killa • Mark Johns • Mild High Club
Kinjaz 
Choreo Cookies • 220 
 
REGISTER  NOW
AT SGF.UCSD.EDU
 
Registration closes on  Friday, April 21st at 4pmsgf.ucsd.edu • ascefestivals@ucsd.edu • 858.534.0477percent, confirming reports that 
turnout would be significantly lower 
than last year’s approximately 23 
percent.
Several controversies arose 
during the course of this year’s 
elections.
Students Determined candidates 
Figueroa and Gqajela were labeled 
as independents on the ballot 
despite intending to register with 
the Students Determined slate. 
According to the two candidates, 
there was a technical error when 
they filed for candidacy, which 
prompted them to be left off 
the Students Determined slate. 
However, after an audit of the filing 
system supposedly showed no such 
error, the Elections Committee and Natarajan made the decision 
to leave them as independents on 
TritonLink.
Additionally, THRIVE presidential 
candidate Tara Vahdani withdrew 
from the election on Tuesday after 
being accused of blackface when 
a two-year-old snapchat surfaced 
depicting Vahdani in a charcoal 
face mask with the caption “I’m 
problematic.” In her statement 
announcing her withdrawal, 
Vahdani apologized for her actions 
and claimed that she sent the picture 
to a friend because “the nature of 
[their] Snapchats was to critique 
systems of oppression through 
humor. ”
The winning candidates will 
term in during Week 8.and I hope it’s something that will 
really add to the show. ”
McEntee also said that in order 
to adequately represent and address 
the tumult of adolescent sexuality, 
the cast and team utilized resources 
on campus like CARE at the Sexual 
Assault Resource Center, LGBT 
Resource Center, and Counseling and 
Psychological Services.
“We’ve been meeting with SARC, 
LGBT, and CAPS to do workshops 
with our cast, ” McEntee explained. 
“We wanted to get a deeper knowledge 
of the themes of the show so we 
can better communicate that to our 
audiences. ”
The show has mature content that 
McEntee maintains is crucial to the experience.
“There’s going to be a lot of people 
that come in and feel uncomfortable, 
maybe love the show or hate it, ” 
McEntee said. “But I think that’s 
the beautiful thing about theatre — 
you’re supposed to just come and 
feel something, and maybe spark 
knowledge and discussion. ”
Performances took place at 8 
p.m. on April 8 and April 9 and will 
continue from April 13 to April 15 in 
the Mandeville Auditorium. Tickets 
can be purchased in person or online 
at the Box Office. Talkbacks with the 
actors and creative team will take place 
on April 13 and April 14 to encourage 
audience members to engage with the 
show’s material and presentation.▶ ELECTION,  from page 1 
▶ MUSICAL  from page 1 A.S Election Featured Several Controversies McEntee: The Show’s Mature Content May 
Have Caused Some to Feel Uncomfortable
Armonie Mendez    aemendez@ucsd.edu Ming-Ra y Liao  m4liao@ucsd.edu Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu▶ VACCINE  from page 1 The Next Step Is 
Raising Funding for 
Clinical Trials
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Faced with rising costs of higher 
education, New York has recently 
passed a bill establishing a fund to cover 
tuition costs at its state’s institutions. 
This $163 million effort, proposed by 
Governor Andrew Cuomo, is expected 
to cover 944,000 families whose 
incomes fall below $125,000. The 
Excelsior Scholarship applies to two-
year and four-year institutions, and 
includes $8 million for educational 
expenses. Though this gives higher 
education a broader reach, it fails to 
compensate for the staggering non-
tuition costs, still excluding the poorest 
members of the state.
Naturally, this plan comes with a 
few strings attached. The plan requires 
students to take at least 30 credits a year 
but allows students facing hardship 
to pause and restart the program. 
Students must also remain and work in 
New York after graduation equivalent 
to the number of years they received 
funding. If these conditions are not 
met, then the scholarship is converted 
to a loan.  
New York is not the first state to 
provide free college — several states, 
including Tennessee and Oregon, offer two-year tuition programs — 
but the scope of this plan introduces 
a host of new problems. Critics argue 
that it threatens the enrollment 
rates of private institutions and that 
forcing graduates to remain in New 
York could limit their job prospects. 
However, the most significant issue 
is that the plan fails to live up to its 
promise as advertised. 
CNN Money claims Cuomo’s bill 
will most notably benefit households 
whose incomes lie between $80,000 
and $125,000. People who earn more 
cannot qualify, and people who earn 
less likely pay no tuition by way of 
other grants. This inattentiveness 
toward the state’s poorest people 
belies Cuomo’s effort to make higher 
education accessible to both middle-
class and lower-class households.
Under the banner cry of “free 
college,” Cuomo garnered support 
for his plan, which only covers 
tuition. This certainly reduces the 
cost of attendance, but it ignores the 
staggering living expenses associated 
with New York. Under this plan, New 
York would pay $6,470 in the State 
University of New York System and 
$4,370 at a community college — 31 
percent and 28 percent of the total cost of attendance, respectively. Room and 
board make up the remaining roughly 
$14,000 cost for which students are 
directly liable. 
A few changes could further 
increase accessibility. Removing the 
clause which applies money from the 
Excelsior scholarship to tuition after 
Pell grants and Tuition Assistance 
Program scholarships, the money from 
those grants could help handle non-
tuition costs. Also, if Cuomo removes 
the minimum yearly unit quota, 
part-time student workers would no 
longer be exempt from access to the 
scholarship, which would allow them to work toward paying their living 
expenses.
In the wake of the bill’s approval, 
California is already seeking to expand 
accessibility to higher education. It 
is running into the same problems, 
however. In true Californian 
fashion, the proposal introduced by 
Assemblywoman Susan Talamantes 
Eggman begins with a tax. The bill 
raises the income tax by one percent 
on the highest income households, 
and is expected to amass $2.2 billion. 
The formidable cost of living 
associated with California acts as 
a barrier for higher education as it does in New York. Though the $2.2 
billion proposal dwarfs that of New 
York’s plan, it is counterbalanced by 
the fact that California shelters 12 
percent of the total U.S. population 
(twice as much as New York), and 
a disproportionate 22 percent of 
the homeless population. The sheer 
magnitude of demand combined with 
the decline in housing production 
earned California a seat on the USA 
TODAY list of states that bear the 
highest cost of living. 
The California plan is different in 
that it applies to all students regardless 
of income, and ignores the risk that 
people will leave the state after earning 
their degree. However, it appears as 
though California is no closer to truly 
free higher education than New York, 
and will not be unless it recognizes 
that education is inextricably linked 
to other facets of the economy. Until 
California addresses living expenses, 
or even the minimum wage as a living 
wage, the poorest of our state will still 
be excluded from access to higher 
education. In U.S. media, the Russian 
leader Vladimir Putin 
is widely depicted as an 
indestructible nemesis, 
as strong as he is evil. 
However, this infernal 
portrayal of the 
Russian president as 
invincible is far from 
reality. Though it may 
not be apparent, Putin’s 
rather formidable 
power in the last 
several years has shrunk 
dramatically and will 
continue doing so. The reason 
for such dramatic change is the 
growing success of the revived 
opposition, the growing discontent of 
the general population with economic 
politics and the increased availability of 
online resources. Unfortunately, these 
processes are largely underestimated 
by American politicians. Articles 
published on Russian affairs — like 
one published last week by CNN — 
describe Russia in terms of “Cold 
W ar levels” and opt to put Putin on 
a villain pedestal. If opposition to his 
administration is recognized, however, 
it may have the power to prevent the 
consequential damage from proxy 
wars, such as the one in Syria, and even 
a possible Third World W ar. 
Putin and his administration have 
been losing significant power in recent 
years. Despite the fact that Putin’s 
individual approval ratings remain 
at around 80 percent, the change in 
ratings for Putin’s administration 
went from 59 percent in 2015 to 43 
percent in 2017. This shows that 
many Russians share a notion that 
Putin’s administration is either 
corrupt, ineffective or evil, and even 
consider Putin himself the victim 
of it. In other words, more than 
half of the Russian population 
is unwilling to collaborate with 
Putin’s administration while 
nominally supporting him. 
This basically ruins the work of 
the Russian bureaucracy and makes the logistics inside of Russia 
increasingly difficult. This recent 
decrease in approval ratings stems 
mainly from three factors: increased 
poverty, a growing reliance on the 
internet and, most importantly, an 
active opposition which manages to 
use all of those factors to organize civil 
protest. 
The first of these factors, poverty, 
comes from the annexation of Crimea 
and the consequential economic crisis 
which resulted in sanctions imposed 
by the European Union, the United 
States, the United Kingdom and 
Canada. The reactionary import ban 
imposed by the Russian Government 
further contributed to the crisis, since 
it removed the surplus which was 
coming from international trade. This 
was paired with a drop in oil prices 
and ongoing corruption. As a result, 
according to the Economic World 
Forum, “the number of poor increased 
by 3.1 million to 19.2 million in 2015” 
and led to general discontent among 
the population.
This discontent has translated into 
an increased opposition movement, 
led in part by Russian opposition. 
As of now, the Russian government 
ultimately is failing to control the 
internet with the same effectiveness 
as TV or printed press. This turned 
out to be fatal for its monopoly over 
information due to the recent drastic 
increase in the usage of online resources  
in Russia. In 2007 specifically, less than 
20 percent of the population used the 
internet while at the same time in 
America more than 60 percent did. 
In recent years, this number in Russia 
has increased to more than 70 percent, 
a change which has allowed people 
— particularly a younger generation 
— to avoid official propaganda and 
to rely more on independent news 
agencies. This new opportunity was 
most prominently employed by Alexei 
Navalny, an opposition leader who OPINIONQUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Putin The 
Vulnerable
BY RIVKA GERSHOVICH ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
CHRIS ROBERTSON  CRR015@UCSD.EDUSee PUTIN , page 5
Recent College Affordability Plans Fail to Compensate for Staggering Non-tuition CostsLetter
to the 
Editor
To whom it may concern,
I was at the official debate on 
Friday last week and what stood out 
to me is how strongly Lesly Figueroa 
emphasized that she and her slate 
were not career politicians. Leaking 
past images of candidates? Politics. 
They waited until the election started 
to release those pictures. Holding 
onto those pictures that you were 
so enraged about while you were 
campaigning for her? Politics. They 
only cried foul when the pictures 
served their purposes. Claiming that a 
filing mistake was a “technical glitch” 
even after a technical audit found 
nothing? Politics. They were willing 
to lie to cover up a mistake. Preaching 
accessibility and transparency even 
though they were the ones best-
positioned for change over the past 
year? Politics. It is apparent that these 
candidates have grown comfortable 
in the A.S. Council bubble, simply 
skating from year to year with the 
same slate, unable to accomplish 
things that the entire population 
supports. Not bothering to reach out 
to a population that does not typically 
vote in numbers? Politics. Dennis Y eh 
has been the only candidate to reach 
out and listen to the concerns of the 
Chinese community about the Dalai 
Lama.
This is why we need an 
independent candidate that has 
not been a career A.S. Council 
“politician. ” Their focus on talking 
points over results is only emphasized 
by the lack of progress over the years 
that the slate has been established. I 
do not want to continue an apathetic 
campus that just tells me to accept 
that lack of progress. Their focus 
on identity politics has left some 
students that aren’t their priority in 
the cold.
I am voting for Dennis Yeh. 
He brings real value and real 
representation to the average student.
Charles Lichtenstern, Erik Mumm
Marshall College 1st years
BY  CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
Western media tends to put Vladmir Putin on a villain's pedestal. 
By highlighting opposition, his administration's power can be 
challenged in less violent ways than military intervention.
Until California addresses 
living expenses, or even
 the minimum wage as a 
living wage, the poorest of
our state will still be exempted 
from higher education. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
YOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.edu▶ ACCESSIBILITY  from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
plans to run for the 2018 presidential 
election.
In 2011, Navalny organized a non-
governmental organization called 
the Anti-Corruption Foundation 
which, according to the site’s mission 
statement, is “the only Russian-based 
NGO that investigates, exposes and 
fights corruption among high-ranking 
Russian government officials. ” Based 
on the information it obtains, the 
foundation creates well-documented 
and appealing movies and reports. 
One of these movies, which concerned 
the corruption of Dmitry Medvedev, 
former Russian president and current 
prime minister, generated more 
than 17 million Y ouTube views and 
inspired widespread-peaceful protests 
on March 26 of this year. The protests 
were attended by more than 150,000 
people in approximately 100 Russian 
cities and towns. Remarkably, the 
majority of protesters were teenagers 
or young people below the age of 30. 
As an immediate effect of the protest, 
Medvedev’s ratings dropped from 52 
percent to 42 percent in March 2017 alone.
These protests are significant 
because they show that Russian 
opposition can efficiently use the 
increased availability of the internet 
to translate widespread discontent 
into organized direct action, allowing 
people to access independent 
information that isn’t saturated with 
political propaganda.
The problem herein is that such 
opportunities to challenge high-
level corruption in Russia have been 
disregarded by most major U.S. 
newspapers articles that have been 
published in the past several years. 
Articles on the topic instead opt to 
sensationalize the worst possible 
future scenarios for Russian internal 
affairs. One example is the CNN article 
published last week, which states that 
Russian military deployments and 
intelligence operations within the U.S. 
have reached Cold W ar levels. The 
article even implies that the Third 
World W ar is about to begin. In the 
process of doing so, it does not even 
mention Russian internal instability 
and Russian opposition. Given that 
Putin’s administration is rapidly losing 
power, this approach to Russian-U.S. relations is very problematic.
Simply put, malicious misbeliefs 
in American media of Putin as 
invincible lead American viewers, 
readers and politicians alike to count 
on the plot of military conflict with 
“all-mighty” Putin. Instead , Americans 
could consider supporting Russian 
oppositional groups, which are 
attempting to overthrow him via less 
violent methods.
As massive of a dilemma as this 
is, the easiest way to challenge this 
phenomenon is to raise awareness 
about Russian opposition. We 
should believe that young American 
citizens together with young Russian 
citizens can stop disastrous proxy 
wars such as the one in Syria and 
eliminate even the opportunity of a 
large-scale war between two nuclear-
armed countries. Even UC San Diego 
students can have an impact in this 
by supplying monetary support for 
Russian oppositional organizations. 
Readers interested in hearing more 
about Russian Oppositional groups can 
contact Rivka at her email.▶ PUTIN, from page 4
RIVKA GERSHOVICH  REVEKKA97@GMAIL.COM
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
We star ted our journey in the desert near Jacumba outside a 
gas station frequented by seemingly nobody but truckers. 
The late February sun hung in the middle of the sky, 
illuminating the barren, rocky landscape we would be traversing 
for the rest of the day. As volunteers with Border Angels, we would 
be dedicating our day to helping undocumented migrants in their 
mission to reach the United States.
Breaking the tranquility of this desert landscape was our circle 
of cars, with people filing out to gather around one figure. With 
the countenance of a man wise beyond his years, Eleanor Roosevelt 
College senior Jonathan Y ost spoke to the volunteers gathered 
before him, imparting on them the significance of the work they 
were about to undertake.
“Those desperate to reunite with families, flee poverty and 
escape violence are left with one option, and that is to cross 
unlawfully, ” Yost explained. “Many who do cross through the 
deadly desert face many risks. Our mission as Border Angels [is] 
to drop gallon jugs of water, food and warm clothing along hard to 
reach places on the U.S.-Mexico border, giving migrants a better 
chance of surviving their trip. ”
Yo s t  e nu m e r at e d  t h e  m any  d an g e r s  m i g r ant s  f a c e  w h e n  c ro s s i n g 
the border unlawfully. Entrusting their lives to smugglers called 
“coyotes” who promise to guide them through the desert, the 
migrants put themselves at risk of robbery, rape and murder, since 
the coyotes are often criminals with little regard for their clients’ 
well-being. This danger is compounded by anti-immigrant militia 
groups and rogue border patrol agents who prowl the desert 
looking for them. Worse yet is the ever-present danger of fatal 
exposure — the migrants usually lack water and clothing to deal 
with the heat and cold of the desert. This is where Border Angels 
hope to lend a helping hand.
“Today, you will become first responders, ” Yost intoned. “You 
will be paramedics out there, although you will not interact with 
your patients. What you bring today — that is their life-saving 
treatment. Just like a life-saving blanket administered in the back 
of an ambulance, what you bring today will prevent their condition 
from killing them. ”
Newly endowed with a sense of purpose, we split into several 
groups. My group headed further up the road to the foot of a 
craggy rock outcrop. Disembarking, we made our way into the 
barren wilderness skirting the border.
A few minutes into our hike we came across an ominous sign 
left for migrants — a scarecrow made of abandoned clothing. 
Scarecrows like this, made by anti-immigrant militias as a grim 
warning to migrants, are an all-too-common sight along the 
border. Many volunteers can speak to the intensity of the anti-
immigrant sentiment they have witnessed here.
“The first time I came and scouted this route, I was here with 
my friend Anthony, ” longtime volunteer and ERC senior Jake 
Lory explained to the UCSD Guardian. “We walked all the way 
down there. There were some border patrol agents in the area 
and immediately a border agent sprinted around this corner, g un 
drawn, and was pointing it before he even saw us at all. Luckily 
nothing happened, but that just speaks to the intensity of what’s 
happening out here. ”
Continuing along the trail, we came across a pile of used 
clothes. At Yost’s request, we paused to reflect on its meaning. As Yost explained, migrants need warm clothes to survive the 
harsh conditions in the middle of the desert. Yost hoped that the 
migrants had reached their destination safely, sharing the fate of 
one immigrant who was not so fortunate.
Alfonso Martinez Sanchez was a construction worker and 
butcher who had called Vista, California home for more than 20 
years. One day in early 2012, while working at a local liquor store, 
a police officer asked for his ID. When he could only produce a 
Mexican ID, the officer turned him over to the Immigration and 
Naturalization Services, which deported him to Mexico. Dedicated 
to reuniting with his family, he made many attempts to cross 
the border again. After being caught by border patrol on three 
attempts, he made a fourth attempt to cross the border again on 
April 20, 2012.
Unfortunately, Martinez Sanchez was ill-prepared for the 
journey, a multi-day trek through the arid desert near the Arizona 
border. Temperatures in the day can soar above 80 degrees but drop 
below freezing at night. After a day of traversing the desert, he 
began to feel sick. Unfortunately, the “coyote” guiding him through 
the desert refused to stop for him, and the 20-person group of 
migrants left him alone on the trail. At the risk of being deported, 
one member of the group attempted to rescue Sanchez by alerting 
Border Patrol when he arrived in the United States. The search 
ended tragically five days later, when officials found Martinez 
Sanchez’s barely recognizable corpse along the desert trail.
Leaving behind a wife and 19-year-old daughter, Sanchez 
became one of the estimated 11,000 migrants who have perished 
crossing the U.S.-Mexico border since the beginning of Operation 
Gatekeeper.
Launched by the Clinton administration in September 1994, 
Operation Gatekeeper aims to halt the flow of undocumented 
migrants across the border near San Diego. The operation has 
succeeded in making border-crossing much more difficult: With 
the easy routes across the border blocked by Border Patrol, 
migrants have resorted to using more difficult paths through the 
desert.
“It can take days, and this is the type of terrain, ” Yost said, 
pointing to the rugged mountains surrounding us. “In the flat 
areas, the nice open areas, they’re going to get caught. So they go 
through the terrain like this, and a lot of things can happen out 
here. And they just can’t carry enough with them. ”
These dangerous routes have led to a surge in migrant deaths 
since the 1990s, making the Border Angels’ mission increasingly 
urgent.
Stories like this are what motivate Yost and his fellow Border 
Angels to continue their work. Yost eagerly shares these stories 
with volunteers, hoping that they learn to empathize with the 
migrants as well.
Other members of our group had more personal reasons for Founded by Chicano 
activist Enrique 
Morones in 1986, 
Border Angels is 
an organization 
dedicated to helping 
undocumented 
immigrants in the 
San Diego area. 
Among the many 
services its volunteers 
provide are periodic 
water drops near 
the border, offering 
desperately needed 
supplies to migrants 
making the perilous 
trek through the 
desert. This is 
what one writer 
experienced on a day 
volunteering with 
them.How to 
Save a Life:  
One Day 
with the 
Border 
Angels
by Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
Photo courtesy of Lucas Barioulet
SeeBORDER ANGELS  page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
empathizing with the migrants. For some members of 
Chicanos Latinos for Community Medicine (CCM), 
one of the UC San Diego student groups accompanying 
us on our journey, the plight of immigrants from 
Mexico was all too familiar.
“I actually had a family friend who crossed last 
summer and it was in this area of Ocotillo, ” Muir 
College junior and CCM member Michelle Martinez 
told the Guardian. “It was really tough. I think he lost 
his way so he was walking around in the desert for a 
couple of days and at some point he ran out of water. He 
couldn’t handle it anymore, so he went on the highway 
and a car saw him, thankfully, and they helped him get 
to a motel. ”
Stories like hers made the difficult trek through the 
mountainous terrain feel like a worthwhile cause.
After hiking for a little over an hour, our group 
finally reached a secluded valley in the middle of 
the desert. Littered all around us were water jugs left 
by previous volunteers — nearly all were empty, a 
welcoming sign that our work would not be in vain. 
As we came to the end of our mission, Yost invited us 
to reflect on the value of the work in which we were 
partaking.
“It just so happens that when we put out the water it becomes like a pillar of light, because with the sun 
shining on it it lights it up, ” Professor Edmond Chang, 
who has volunteered with Border Angels for many 
years, observed. “So when the migrants come here, 
there’s the water, but also just the symbolism of the 
water conveys hope and a sense of welcome — that 
there are people on this side [of the border] who 
actually care and would welcome them. ”
We dispersed across the area, dropping our jugs of 
water and other supplies in hopes that we would help 
future migrants live another day. As the afternoon sun 
sank lower in the sky, we made the difficult trek back to 
our cars, each one of us coming away with a newfound 
empathy for the struggle of the thousands of migrants 
who endure the perilous journey in hopes of finding a 
better life.
To Yost, the plight of the migrants is something 
everyone living in the San Diego area has a duty to be 
aware of. As a student at UCSD, he feels that it is his 
duty to help prevent what he calls a humanitarian crisis in his 
own backyard.
“Y ou live near the border, you live in San Diego, you go to 
UCSD, ” Y ost proclaimed. “Y ou have a responsibility to know 
about the deaths that are going on, about the humanitarian 
crisis going on not halfway across the world but in your own 
backyard. And if you know about it, you have to take action. ”How to 
Save a Life:  
One Day 
with the 
Border 
Angels
by Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
In 1908, throngs of women 
marched through the streets of New 
Y ork demanding better pay, better 
work conditions and more rights. 
Their demands were recognized by the 
Socialist Party of America the following 
year, which decreed the first National 
Women’s Day. By 1914, women as far 
away as Russia were celebrating an 
International Women’s Day, held on 
March 8. The United Nations adopted 
the holiday in 1975, and the occasion 
has provided a platform for women 
across the world to speak out ever 
since.
This year’s International Women’s 
Day was an especially poignant 
occasion in light of recent protests 
and a polarizing political climate. On 
March 8, post-doctoral fellow at the 
UC San Diego School of Medicine, 
Becca Miller, hosted a “teach-in” at 
the Health Research Center to discuss 
current issues regarding women’s 
health and justice. 
Miller saw her start with social 
justice in 2006, when she joined the 
Peace Corps and lived in a rural village 
in South Africa near Kruger National 
Park. She worked as a community 
resource volunteer assisting at three 
different primary schools in the area.
“There was a large HIV prevalence 
there. Where I lived, one in three 
people were living with HIV . While I 
was there I did a lot of testing drives, 
formed girls’ clubs and worked with 
HIV prevention programs, ” Miller said.
Miller’s experiences in South Africa 
spurred her desire to help women and 
promote feminism back in the United 
States.
“I saw what long-term structural 
inequality looks like. It’s easier to see 
these things when they’re not familiar 
to you, ” she observed. “I saw that 
women’s health problems were a result 
of structural drivers such as who has 
access to education, whose lives are 
valued and where we are sending 
money. I thought if I could make these 
structures visual I could contribute my 
share. ” 
Though Miller has always 
identified as a feminist, she recalled, “I 
think living in South Africa, I became 
more thoughtful about what feminism 
means, apart from what it means to a 
white girl in the suburbs, ” said Miller 
referring to herself.
But what exactly does feminism 
mean? The issue of defining the term has lead to an ever-present cultural 
conversation. Even among feminists 
there is disagreement as to the true 
boundaries of the term. Some believe 
that feminist women are merely 
over-entitled, whereas others find it 
ridiculous that anyone would identify 
as anything less.  
Some previous UCSD Guardian 
articles have also explored this issue. 
One article by Edward __ explains 
why feminism cannot be neglected. 
Another by Vincent Pham explores 
his personal reasons for becoming a 
feminist. 
Miller commented on the topic 
saying, “Feminism means that men 
and women should have equal social 
and economic opportunities.But 
there’s also a recognition that it’s not 
just individuals, but that we live in 
a structure that is set up unfairly … 
Feminism is seeing this structure and 
realizing we have to work to take it 
apart. ”
Miller believes that, in the current 
social climate, being a feminist comes 
with some real responsibilities.
“More than it has in the last 10 
years, being a feminist means being 
an activist. It’s creeping its way toward 
intersectional feminism. It’s starting 
to mean solidarity and a little bit of 
self-reflection, although more would 
be good. ”
The self-reflection she refers to is 
the ability for both men and women to 
look inwardly at their own actions and 
recognize how they might contribute 
to the patriarchy as a whole. Because 
Miller understands that sexism is 
not always overt and purposeful, she 
understands the importance of self-
reflection. 
When asked if she can remember 
any recent experiences where she 
witnessed sexism, she laughed, 
recalling an an instance in which she 
gave a workshop on teaching at the 
graduate level. An audience member 
inquired how she should handle 
questions from students.
“I said you have to be careful, 
because as a woman there’s a line you 
walk. Are you being assertive and 
clear or are you being ‘kind of a b----. ’ 
And the student who was co-teaching 
the workshop jumped in to talk over 
me, explaining that there is a double 
standard for women!”
She was struck by the irony in his 
interrupting her to make a point about double standards in gender. She found 
the whole situation comical, especially 
because he had no idea that he was 
exhibiting sexism himself. 
“He said, ‘Y eah, the numbers on 
this are really disheartening!’ I said, 
‘Y eah, the lived experience is really 
disheartening!’ He just didn’t get it, ” 
Miller recalled. Miller’s upbeat energy 
and enthusiastic passion for her work 
is inspiring. She speaks with urgent 
resolution while always maintaining a 
positive and hopeful demeanor.
Miller views moments like this as 
examples of the integration of sexism 
into our everyday lives, regardless of 
whether our intentions are good or 
whether we realize it or not.
“It’s important for us to reach 
out and talk with people who might 
not have been introduced to this 
perspective before. Admitting privilege 
can be a painful process for a lot of 
people. It’s necessary to reach out, ” 
Miller urged.
Miller modeled her “teach-in” after 
a common activism strategy that was 
popularized in the ‘60s in response to 
the war in Vietnam as well as by AIDS 
activists in the ‘80s and ‘90s.
“One of the most useful things 
we could do was have an event to 
share that expertise and open it up to 
students and community members to 
be in conversation about what we can 
do to move forward, ” Miller explained.
Part of continuing the conversation 
means education. “Some issues we just 
aren’t all aware about. For example, 
the Global Gag rule says that the 
Federal government won’t give money 
to any international organization 
that acknowledges the existence of 
abortion. ”
When asked if she ever fears that 
teach-ins might become somewhat of 
an echo chamber, she replied, “While 
we might agree with one another 
conceptually it’s important that we do 
the work to be good allies moving 
forward, which means informing 
ourselves as best we can. ”
The teach-in was held in a 
conference room, packed with both 
men and women wearing red as a 
symbol of solidarity. The room buzzed 
with conversation, and there was a 
sense of community and comfortability 
among the attendees. Although the 
seats were all taken, more people 
continued to walk in, filling the floor 
space as well. Miller stood at the front, introducing a number of speakers who 
commented on issues such as LGBTQ 
identity and how to handle violence 
against women. Director of the Center 
for Women’s Equality and Health 
Anita Raj urged the people in the 
audience to write to their congressional 
representatives and speak up about 
inequality.
“I was just in India, and over there 
they are experiencing a lot of the same 
issues as we are here. However, in 
India there is a lot of suppression of 
speech, which is something we don’t 
experience here. The opportunity to 
use our voice now should not be taken 
for granted, ” Raj said.
Everyone in the audience paid close 
attention to the speakers, nodding 
and scribbling notes. They seemed to 
understand the sense of urgency and 
gravity of the situation. 
Miller encouraged the audience to 
talk among themselves, announcing 
that “the main goal of today is to make 
connections and leave with an action 
plan. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore Ashlyn Higareda was one 
of the UCSD students in attendance. 
She wore a black T-shirt with the 
word “Feminist” written across it and 
explained that she is an active women’s 
justice activist, attending protests 
across San Diego. The Guardian spoke 
with her about what it means to her to 
be a feminist.
“The essential goal of feminism is 
equality of the sexes, but an integral 
role of a feminist is recognizing how 
sexism affects us in our everyday lives. 
Saying something or speaking out 
is the only way anything is going to 
change, ” Higareda said.
Her answer was surprisingly similar 
to Miller’s and echoed a sort of urgency 
for action that everyone must take on.
She then began discussing one 
of the hardest road blocks to social 
change: altering someone’s opinion.
“I was with my friend at a bar 
recently. I had this interesting 
interaction with a female bartender 
there. We ordered a beer to share 
and the woman opened the beer and 
asked if I wanted a glass. I wondered 
why she wasn’t asking my male friend 
and she told me that as a ‘lady’ she 
wouldn’t want to drink out of a bottle 
because it’s too rugged … like a pirate 
or something. She said that she would 
never think to serve a woman a bottle. ”Higareda continued, describing her 
frustration and feeling of helplessness. 
“I didn’t know how to react … Dealing 
with sexism from men is one thing, but 
coming from a woman I didn’t know 
what to say … It really upset me. ” 
There is also the fear of being 
labeled a “feminazi. ” The term has 
become an epithet for women who 
hold overly radical beliefs on feminism. 
Higareda rolled her eyes at the 
mention of the phrase. 
“I think the term feminazi is 
just misconstruing the passion and 
abrasiveness that some feminists use 
to get their points across, ” Higareda 
explained. 
“People have an aversion to 
abrasiveness … they don’t know how 
to deal with that kind of critique on 
themselves … but it is hard to find 
the balance between trying to inform 
people and being imposing. ”
To Miller, such events demonstrate 
the need for solidarity, especially 
among women. Social attitudes will 
never change unless both men and 
women recognize the importance and 
validity of the feminist position. 
“It’s concerning that women 
themselves don’t understand how 
they contribute to patriarchal ideals, ” 
Higareda concluded. 
Upon inquiring whether Miller had 
any advice for people in Higareda’s 
situation, she looked toward the 
ceiling, pondering the issue.
“That’s a hard situation, ” she 
admitted. “One of the most useful 
things we can do is not lecture and 
belittle people. No one ever changed 
their minds from being told to sit 
down and being yelled at … The first 
step to changing someone’s attitude is 
not talking but listening. Y ou’ll never 
get to a place where you find common 
ground if you don’t start by listening. ”
Breaking down structural barriers 
is no simple task. However, Miller 
holds hope for the future, so long as we 
all play our part as active bystanders.
“Sexism is a structure. It’s no 
one person’s fault. But we need to 
recognize the structure and continue 
these conversations if we ever want to 
dissolve it, ” Miller said.Becca Miller tells the UCSD Guardian what it 
means to be a modern feminist and the importance of 
conversation in fighting structural sexism Continuing the Conversation
By Harrison Lee / / Staff Writerfrom BORDER ANGELS , page 6
Oliver  Kel ton  okelton@ucsd.edu
Harrison Lee  hhl032@ucsd.eduMarc Webb, director of “500 Days 
of Summer, ” excelled with his 
latest indie drama, “Gifted. ” It tells 
a moving, personal story about the 
relationship between Mary Adler 
(McKenna Grace), an intellectually 
gifted seven-year-old, and her 
uncle Frank Adler (Chris Evans), a 
reserved boat laborer. Both leads give 
surprisingly charming performances 
in their earnest portrayals of the 
duo’s day-to-day interactions, from discussing religion at the beach to 
Frank preparing a reluctant Mary 
for her first day of school. There’s a 
refreshing vivacity to their relationship, 
though at times the film tries pretty 
hard to tug at the heartstrings. 
Frank views Mary as a smart 
and capable little girl who deserves a 
normal life — girl scouts, sports and the 
like. Once the school administration 
and Mary’s intense grandmother, 
Evelyn (Lindsay Duncan), discover her genius, Mary becomes the center 
of a high-stakes legal battle for custody 
of her life and mental faculties. Frank 
scrambles to hold on to Mary, who was 
left in his care after his sister, a brilliant 
mathematician driven to the edge by 
rigid training, committed suicide. 
Unfortunately, he’s a working-class 
man without healthcare, causing doubt 
as to whether he’s the most suitable 
guardian for Mary. It’s an intricately 
complicated premise that asks the viewer to consider multidimensional 
moral issues. 
Though the premise is strong, 
the narrative is marred by some poor 
story decisions. Mary’s teacher, Bonnie 
(Jenny Slate), doesn’t contribute 
much besides romantic filler, and the 
beloved Octavia Spencer is tragically 
underutilized as Frank and Mary’s 
friend and landlady, Roberta. While 
the courtroom witness testimonies 
sharpen the nuances of the characters’ histories and ulterior motives, these 
revelations aren’t followed up on. For 
instance, Evelyn’s attorney grills Frank 
on his reasoning for relocating Mary 
across state lines, insinuating that 
Frank may have wanted to get back 
at Evelyn for her strict treatment, but 
the characters never further discuss 
the accusation. Ultimately, it feels that 
these subtle but significant revelations 
are forgotten, sadly leaving some of the 
depth unexplored. 
The story of “Gifted” is impactful, 
but the plot could be threaded tighter 
to maintain forward momentum, 
as done more cohesively in other 
films about the neglected genius 
(a la “The Soloist” and “Good Will 
Hunting”). The film could be better 
with more integral scenes or nuanced 
conversations where the characters 
reflect more on their reasons for 
raising Mary and, more importantly, 
the stakes involved, as well as their own 
limitations in providing Mary what she 
needs. The central conflict, while two-
sided, isn’t exactly multidimensional 
in that Evelyn and Frank sometimes 
seem to stand on opposite sides of 
the courtroom just for the sake of 
cinematic antagonism. Even though 
there’s still some unfulfilled potential, 
“Gifted” holds its own by its captivating 
portrayal of Frank and Mary’s 
relationship and a sincere story that 
provides much more engagement than 
the typical summer blockbuster.
—   ma tt jennings
Staff Writer
A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKEND
Although “The Promise” may seem like an archetypal historical romance, its charged examination of the Armenian genocide lingers.The promise
PHOTO COURTESY OF OPEN ROAD FILMS
Director   Terry George
Starring  Oscar Isaac, Charlotte Le Bon, Christian Bale
Release Date   April 21, 2017
Rated   PG-13  B- FILM  REVIEW
Taking place in the Ottoman 
Empire at the start of WWI, 
“The Promise” centers around Mikael 
Boghosian (Oscar Isaac), a young 
Armenian man who aspires to be a 
doctor. In order to fulfill his dream, 
Mikael successfully proposes to a 
wealthy woman in his local village for 
dowry money to study medicine abroad 
before returning home to marry. While 
in Constantinople, however, Mikael 
meets Ana (Charlotte Le Bon) and 
begins to feel torn about keeping his 
promise to his family and village. To 
further complicate matters, Ana is 
already in a relationship with Chris 
Myers (Christian Bale), a journalist 
writing about the increasingly tense 
political situation within the Ottoman 
Empire. The relative simplicity of 
this romantic storyline is quickly 
abandoned with the onset of WWI, 
however, and the movie escalates into the main characters’ struggles to 
survive and rescue their peers during 
the Armenian genocide. 
Despite their overdrawn screen 
time, the relationships depicted in 
“The Promise” are all problematic. 
Mikael and Ana, who are supposed to 
have the central relationship, are only 
attracted to each other out of lust and a 
shared Armenian identity. Eventually, 
they manage to share personal details 
and develop an emotional connection, 
but even these conversations are 
scripted and hurried. Ana and Chris’ 
relationship is surprisingly one-sided 
for their living together for multiple 
years. Chris is forgiving of Ana to a 
fault, while Ana is all too willing to 
consider cheating on Chris. The only 
superficial relationship that makes 
sense is the one between Mikael and 
his intended wife from his village, as 
they were brought together purely for financial reasons. The film’s 
determination to keep returning to 
these romances in rushed sequences 
placed between the brutal war scenes 
takes away from the poignancy of the 
plot. 
Even so, “The Promise” redeems 
itself with its narrative dedication to 
Isaac’s fantastic acting of Mikael’s story. 
Mikael’s willpower and bravery shown 
when forced to live in and endure the 
horrors of a labor camp, freeing fellow 
Armenian prisoners and treating the 
wounded on rural battlefields, provide 
an exciting element that highlights the 
stressful, desperate aspects of this time. 
This is very much a survival story, 
not a love story. Throughout the film, 
Mikael is pushed slowly and surely to 
the brink of what a human can bear in 
his situation, and it is only his undying 
hope that allows him to continue. 
In accordance with his desired profession, Mikael shows great 
understanding and care for others, 
choosing to fight against the Turks 
not by killing but by saving as 
many individuals as he can. Isaac’s 
performance in this part is moving, 
showing tremendous scenes of grief 
when witnessing the destruction of his 
people and homeland that are sure to 
leave audiences in tears. His acting is 
raw, and the expressions and noises he 
makes while enduring his living hell 
are not designed for aesthetic or plot 
appeal, but authenticity. Essentially, 
Isaac’s acting and Mikael’s story save 
what would otherwise be a relatively 
one-dimensional plot. Even though 
he is inherently intertwined with the 
romantic aspects, the majority of the 
film is centered on his basic struggle to 
live as an individual.
All stylistic and literary aspects of 
plot and characters aside, this film is worth seeing because of its ultimate goal 
of providing insight into the Armenian 
genocide. Director Terry George, who 
also directed “Hotel Rwanda, ” frankly 
depicts the vicious Turkish prosecution 
against the Armenians and reveals the 
emotional turmoil of this period. The 
movie starts off slow, trudging along 
in Mikael’s simplistic romance and 
coming-of-age story. But then the war 
begins, and suddenly the rest of the 
film takes on a hectic, chaotic tone 
to reflect the brutalities inflicted on 
the land and people. Overall, “The 
Promise” may not be the happiest or 
most entertaining film to currently 
watch, but it’s valuable for its crucial 
and relevant message against violence 
toward innocent peoples.
—   Dais y scott
Staff Writer
“Gifted” features remarkable performances and an engaging premise — Marc Webb is now back on track.gifted
Director   Marc Webb
Starring  Chris Evans, McKenna Grace, Lindsay Duncan
Release Date   April 12, 2017
Rated   PG-13  B FILM  REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURESA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
BE THE CHANGEPROVIDE TREATMENT THAT 
CAN CHANGE LIVES
SAN DIEGO 
CAMPUSTHECHICAGO  
SCHOOL.EDU
THE CHICAGO SCHOOL OF 
PROFESSIONAL PSYCHOLOGY 
AT SAN DIEGO 
401 W. A STREET 
AT 1 COLUMBIA PLACE
SAN DIEGO, CA 92101JOIN US FOR AN OPEN HOUSE
April  27, 2017   |  6:00 - 7:00  p.m
A new collection of characteristically powerful and empowering essays written by the divisive Camille Paglia.Free Women, Free Men
PHOTO COURTESY OF TIME MAGAZINE
Book   Free Women, Free Men: Sex, Gender, Feminism
Author  Camille Paglia
Release Date   March 14, 2017  B+ BOOK  REVIEW
Like anyone great, Camille Paglia 
is not for everyone. For the 
people she is for, she is everything. 
She is, for a certain type of well-read 
and out-of-vogue feminist, what 
Christopher Hitchens was to the 
more iconoclastic and precocious 
eighth-grade eristics. Paglia was the 
Susan Sontag of the ’90s, and she 
used to say so about herself even 
then. But unlike Sontag, she seems 
to have maintained for herself an 
aura of unpopularity while suffering 
a loss of readership and name 
recognition. This is perhaps because 
of Paglia’s affinity for attacking 
fellow public figures. She goes after 
feminist peers as happily as she 
does vacuous celebrities with the 
likable, good nature of someone 
who doesn’t think they’re too good 
to insult you — someone properly 
angry instead of contemptuous. She 
once suggested that “The Beauty 
Myth” never would have been as 
beloved as it was had Naomi Wolf 
not been a Venus, and recently she’s 
been in the spotlight for describing 
Taylor Swift’s trademark wholesome 
primness as something fascist. Paglia has earned both of her reputations, 
but her reputation as a world-class 
intellectual should matter more 
than the one as a serial celebrity 
name-caller. This latest omnibus 
proves she’s still interesting, and that 
she still warrants the outrage and 
adoration she’s made a career out 
of eliciting with martial arts finesse.
Something frustrating about 
conversations surrounding famous 
writers: Some small thing an 
important-enough writer has said 
offhand gets paid way more attention 
to than their actual work. Nobody 
cares what exact musings Žižek’s 
thousand-page book on Hegel 
contains because they’re happy 
enough to discuss what he’s said 
about “Kung Fu Panda. ” People are 
eager to crucify Jonathan Franzen 
for the barely impolite connotations 
of words he’s used in interviews to 
pass the time while they wait for 
the television series to finally learn 
the plot of “Purity. ” Never mind the 
cattiness or the burns, no amount of 
mass-media-scale gossip can change 
the fact that Paglia is still really fun 
to read. This is because of her joyful and nasty rhetorical mastery and 
the kitsch she likes to write about. 
Ever since the start of her career, 
well before serious treatments of 
commercial entertainment became 
as everywhere as they are now, 
Paglia has been writing thoughtfully 
about pop culture. She’s referred to 
popular culture as the fourth wave of 
paganism, and has famously traced 
the cultural change responsible for 
the success of the branch of third-
wave feminism to which she belongs 
(the pro-pornography and pro-sex 
feminists) to the night in 1984 that 
Madonna writhed around onstage 
in a wedding dress. 
The classic essay in which 
Paglia writes about Madonna, titled 
“Madonna: Animality and Artifice,” 
is included in “Free Women, Free 
Men: Sex, Gender, Feminism.” 
Indeed, this collection is more of 
the same from Paglia. Paglia is still 
showcasing her Firestonian embrace 
of nature, her omnivorous tastes 
in art and her familiarity with 
history with essays attacking what 
Paglia dismisses as a bourgeois 
understanding of sexual violence and a piece called “The Venus 
of Willendorf,” which examines 
primitive humans’ understanding 
of femininity. There are poignant, 
hardcore essays on seemingly 
frivolous topics like stiletto shoes, 
a beautifully cut gem about why 
Paglia loves “The Real Housewives” 
and a smart essay on the social 
problems regarding plastic surgery. 
There’s plenty of vicious essays 
taking unpopular stances with elan, 
attacking “nursery school campuses” 
and upbraiding them for their 
naivete and moralism. The points 
are apt, the argumentation is on 
the spot and the writing is flawless 
— it’s a good, late introduction for 
people who suspect they’ll get off on 
Paglia’s brand of feminism.  
The best moments in the book 
happen when Paglia applies her wit 
and rhetorical skill to more oblique 
topics. The take-downs of popular 
campus feminism are essential 
Paglia, and they’re terribly affecting 
and rousing for those who agree and 
disagree with her both. But, they’re 
predictable and the tacts she takes 
are less unexpected than they would be had criticism of popular campus 
politics not become its own little 
cottage industry since the height of 
her career. Anyone can make those 
counter-arguments, but only Paglia 
can argue why teenagers should 
be encouraged to party and drink, 
in an essay called “Why Teenagers 
Should be Allowed to Drink Again, ” 
and effectively persuade teetotalers 
and lushes alike by generating what 
is just a good argument. Paglia’s 
vitality is put to its best use with 
the more unexpected arguments 
encrypted in essays like “No Sex 
Please, We’re Middle Class, ”  “Men’s 
Sports Vanishing” and especially 
in the most fascinating final essay, 
which poses questions about the 
role of academia in our financial 
capitalist economy, which she calls 
“The Hour of the Wolf. ” Here are 
lively writings that could’ve only 
been written by a writer as fearless 
and original as Camille Paglia. 
—   Susie  Da vidson
Senior Staff Writer10                                         T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Ever wake up in utter confusion of what you dreamed up the 
night before? We’re no experts*, but here’s a small guide of how to 
interpret your dreams specifically when it comes to UC San Diego 
imagery…
*Disclaimer: Results absolutely not guaranteed. We already told 
you we aren’t experts. 
Sun God
If you happen to see this mystical, Picasso-painted, quasi-glorified 
chicken of a creature in your sleep, be ready for something exciting and 
fun to come. Alternatively, this could also mean you’re already slacking in 
Spring Quarter, so a backward shuffle under Sun God and a forward push 
in your readings might not hurt either.
Geisel  
Taking the German route to interpret this one, Geisel (unfortunately) 
translates into “hostage. ” Got something you feel held captive to? School? 
Crazy ex? Mundane and underpaid job? Now’s your time to make a quick 
escape. Think of the fourth layer to inception and make a run for it lest 
the avalanche overwhelms you. 
Triton Statue
UCSD’s mascot and sign of school pride, this bronze sculpture might 
indicate pride (or lack thereof) in your own life. So on one hand, a little 
humility wouldn’t hurt. On the other, you might need to remember a pat 
on the back isn’t too bad either. 
Dorms
Remember your roots and first home here at UCSD. The bare 
necessities of your freshman year might indicate another look at how you 
are taking care of yourself now — three meals a day and at least eight 
hours of sleep — please, people. On the other hand, seeing something 
from the past might indicate unfinished business or outdated practices.
OceanView Terrace
Get ready for something new. With OVT’s grand entrance, you’re 
having your own “red carpet moment. ” It might include tearing down 
some walls, changing some content or the construction of something 
completely different, but should nonetheless work out according to plan. 
If you feel like this doesn’t apply, you might just be hungry.Sixth College
Seeing Sixth in sleep might indicate the sentiment of isolation or the 
need for a long trek ahead. Keep on climbing that hill or having some 
much-needed introspective introvert time. 
Price Center
Dreaming of the heart of campus might lead you to journey to your 
own “heart of the matter” with someone or something. Or it could 
insinuate some romantic road ahead. Either way, take some stock of heart 
issues coming up for you. 
Corgi Man
You lucked out with this one. Seeing this iconic trio strutting around 
campus in your dreams can be interpreted as your upcoming opportunity 
to spend time with someone you’ve been hoping to run into for a while. 
And if not, at least you got to see two corgis taking a jaunt on their little 
stubs. 
Tapioca Express
This classic is a staple to all UCSD students, especially when getting 
the case of midnight munchies. Not sure if you’re seeing TapEx in your 
dreams or in reality at 12 a.m., you might want to check with your doctor 
about sleep eating. 
Eucalyptus Trees
Meant to put you at ease and peace, seeing the eucalyptus forest during 
the day in your dreams might push you toward a more stress-free time. 
But at night? You might be going through moments of mystery. 
Hang Gliders
Dreaming of hang gliders represents your own adventurous soul and 
desire to jump into something fearlessly. At least the view will be good.
 UCSDreams 
Compiled by Lifestyle Staff
Illustrations by Christina CarlsonLIFESTYLE           THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Sleepless in San Diego  
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Illustrations by Christina CarlsonWe’ve all been there. Too often we find ourselves scrambling last minute to scrap quotes 
together for a literature review or calling lab partners at 2 a.m. to get the conclusion ready 
to turn in. Not to mention the occasional Friday night spent bar hopping, visiting Vallarta 
Express and ending in Denny’s at the crack of dawn. But what exactly happens to your body 
during an all-nighter? Depending on the nature of your night extravaganza, let’s take a look 
at the different stages of the last bits in the 24-hour span. 
So you start your night and it seems promising, no? It’s only 9 p.m., the night is young 
and you have hours ahead of you to tackle that assignment or hit as many clubs as humanly 
possible without wiping out your checking account on Uber and IPAs. This is your fight-or-
flight moment. More often than not, it’s the “eff it, I have to turn in something to Turnitin 
by 8 a.m. ” or the “I refuse to be a grandma and miss out on this epic night out. ” Adrenaline 
running, your body is preparing itself physically and mentally to address a moment of acute 
stress. Over the course of the night (and as the number of nights like these adds up), there’s 
an inevitable toll on your body.
So it’s around 12 a.m. now and those hunger pangs are hitting you. Obviously, you’ll be 
fueling yourself through the night, either through booze or Bagel Bites. By all means, bring 
some Tums. At night, your body still metabolizes, but at a slower rate. Let’s be honest — this 
is not the time you make the healthiest choices, and increasing calories at a concentrated 
level is bound to bring some sort of bowel response. Eating later at night — especially with 
the “night-time nutritious norms” consisting of greasy fries drowned in carne asada, cheese 
and sour cream, or that high-sodium cup of ramen — is more likely to increase chances of 
acid reflux. 
Then, 3:30 a.m. rolls around and eyelids feel heavy; sleep is beckoning you with a siren’s 
call and that bed has never looked so tempting. Nothing coffee can’t fix, right? Known to 
be a “psychoactive drug, ” the caffeine in these beans actually disrupts your body’s natural 
clock. Dr. Kenneth Wright from the department of integrative psychology at the University 
of Colorado, Boulder says that drinking coffee later at night “pushes your internal clock 
later, so you’ll want to go to sleep later. ” And think through the amounts of all-nighters you 
may have collectively pulled during your span of being a student; all of that accumulated 
caffeine will inevitably disturb and delay the natural rhythms to your “rise and shine. ” 
Maybe not the “best fix” we were looking for…
But here it is, the home stretch. By now it’s maybe 6 a.m. and you can see the sun 
beginning to peek up. Somewhere in the distance, a suburban mom is brewing a cup of 
chamomile and doing some yoga. But you, you champion, are in the final stages of the all-
nighter, with the promise of sleep on the horizon. You’re trying and revising, working off 
that last bit of adrenaline to get you through the editing process. Or you’re pulling up into 
a 24-hour diner ready to trade in pina coladas for pancakes. At the end of your night, you 
dutifully turn in your hodgepodge lab report, but what now? 
Scientists say that all-nighters, and even accumulated late nights, are bound to create a 
biological response. Over time, lack of sleep leads to increased cortisol, and thus, plays into 
increased risk for chronic stress. And you think all those Hot Pockets are safe to eat because 
you tell yourself “calories don’t count at night”? Your hormone leptin decreases while 
ghrelin increases, making you hungrier. Researchers at Stanford University found that even 
after one night of little sleep, your body mass index shows signs of increase (2). And over 
time, your audiovisual, spatial and cognitive attention capacity decreases, so that literature 
class you struggled to stay awake in before? It only gets harder from here. 
Maybe an all-nighter every now and then is needed and, dare I say, integral to the college 
experience. But accumulated nights of little to no sleep is harmful in more ways than one. 
So do yourself a favor and make sure to catch some Z’s. 12                                          T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 7 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
LOST
-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabiesfollow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitters #sgfbabies Swimming baby sun god. Answers to the name of “Michelle”.
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 6 years old. Last seen wearing floaties. 
Has a friend crab named Alex. Last seen saving lives at Canyon View.  
You’re at an impasse. Five coffees in, only half the day is over. You 
can’t hear what your political science professor is saying over the sound 
of your droopy head falling limply to your desk. You’ve tried everything: 
sleeping pills, herbal tea, yoga. Y ou can’t bear the thought of another 
night spent laying in bed, watching the ceiling and trying to count sheep 
as the hours go by; the moon sets, the sun rises and your eyes are still 
open. You’re tired — exhausted even — but you can’t sleep well.
Here’s how manipulating some biology can help. 
The first problem: falling asleep. The brain has a structure responsible 
for controlling our circadian rhythm, or our biological clock. This means 
maintaining body temperature, steady blood pressure and, among other 
things, sleep patterns. Naturally, we are diurnal animals, more alert 
during the day and sleepier at night, but a number of things can affect 
circadian rhythms. Exposure to light is a hugely important factor — how 
else would your body know whether it’s 2 p.m. or 2 a.m.? 
This is where cell phones come in. When you’re checking Instagram in 
the wee hours of the morning, the blue light emanating from your screen 
is suppressing the production of melatonin, a hormone that is integral in 
controlling sleep and wake cycles. This could be the reason you still don’t 
feel tired after you’ve seen every picture on your feed twice, thoroughly 
stalked that cute boy in your ethnic studies class and exhausted all the 
options on the Explore page. 
Researchers suggest limiting use of all electronics to roughly 2 to 
3 hours before sleep. But since we’re college students and that’s nearly 
impossible, try using Night Mode on your phone, or downloading 
programs that warm your laptop screen depending on the time of day, 
like f.lux, to limit that dangerous blue light. Don’t stay in your room 
studying for that chem quiz the whole day either — getting out and 
exposing your body to natural sunlight will help your circadian rhythm 
stay on track, and it will probably give you the excuse for a much-needed 
break anyway. Even better: go out for a run or take a walk — the exercise 
will help fatigue your body, making it easier to fall asleep. 
OK, you say, my head hits the pillow and I’m out. What’s next? 
Every young adult has heard over and over from doctors and parents and teachers that it’s important to get at least eight hours of sleep a night. 
But between your anthropology paper, calculus problems, making sure 
you don’t lose your job and trying to keep a social life, that number 
dwindles. 
Surveys and studies have shown that that number averages closer to 
six hours, though we all know there are those weeks we only get three or 
four. Or none. 
Here’s what you can do. Sleep is broken up into different stages: 
drowsiness, light sleep, deep sleep and Rapid Eye Movement sleep. Each 
sleep cycle lasts around 90 minutes, and after your REM sleep is over, you 
cycle back to the first stage. You want to set your alarm clock to wake you 
up when you’re in your lightest sleep — ideally, right after REM. 
So, count by multiples of 90, or use an app or website to do it for you. 
I find that the website sleepyti.me is very helpful in calculating REM 
cycles. There are two options: if users know what time they want to get 
up and want to figure out what time to sleep or if users want to know 
what time to get up if they go to bed at the present time. Both options 
first take into account that it takes, on average, 14 minutes to fall asleep. 
Tracking sleep cycles and adjusting your sleep times to fit them can 
prevent grogginess and help you feel more alert, even though you’ve only 
gotten a few hours of sleep.
All right, you say as you down your second 5-Hour-Energy of the 
night, I’m feeling fine. Why is this relevant to me? 
Remember that sleep is incredibly important for proper functioning. 
Sacrificing sleep to finally finish that engineering project is OK one or 
two nights a week, but sleep deprivation has awful effects on your body. 
Lack of sleep could be why you keep getting sick, why you’re constantly 
stressed, why you keep forgetting things, or why you can’t focus. Try out 
a healthier sleeping pattern for a week or two, and you may notice a huge 
change in your energy, mood and overall health. 
Turn in early tonight. You deserve it. How to Get Better Sleep  
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-EditorCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
KARTIK SESHADRI
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
APR 17 - APR 232017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 4.17 WED4.19SATURDAY 4.22  • 7:30pm
THU4.20
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE4.18
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
THE UNIVERSITY AND THE 
UNIVERSE: A BLACK FEMINIST 
ARCHIVE OF THE POSSIBLE - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Sista Docta Alexis Pauline Gumbs will offer an 
interactive training for students, staff and 
community members interested in connecting 
their global passions to their daily lives within the 
structure of the university. Using writing, 
listening, and small and large group activities, 
we will explore self, space, power, and purpose. 
Light refreshments will be served. Please register 
online: bit.ly/ucsdalexisgumbs Contact: 
lgfriedman@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://libraries.ucsd.edu/blogs/blog/the-universi
ty-and-the-universe-a-black-feminist-archive-of-
the-possible/
2:30pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how it 
affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
NETWORKING NIGHT WITH 
WOMEN IN S.T.E.M - CAREER 
SERVICES CENTER
The Germain Society will host its' first ever 
"Networking Night with Women in STEM" on April 
19th, 2017 from 5:00PM-7:00PM at the Career 
Services Center. This event will be hosted in 
conjunction with Women in Computing and 
Undergraduate Women in Physics. This is will be 
an opportunity for UCSD undergraduate students 
to interact with industry professionals, professors, 
and graduate students in STEM fields. The night 
will be structured with two parts: Q & A panel and 
an open discussion time, where students are 
encouraged to interact with professionals from 
industry and academia on a more personal and 
casual level. So do not be shy and please join us 
for a wonderful night with highly successful 
women ! Contact: vsgomez@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://goo.gl/forms/oHhHKM8KcPU91Y233
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS: ON 
STRUCTURE - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER EXPERIMENTAL 
THEATER
On Structure is a sound-centric performance duo. 
The New York based ensemble uses improvised 
and composed sounds {and the fluctuation of 
these sounds} to brew transferable art pieces 
which may ravage the realms of the performer, 
audience or space itself. Uncovering the hidden 
motions of sound, freeing compositions from the 
fluorescence of the concert expectation. 
Topsy-turvy. Use of lasers, wigs, electronics, cellos 
and flutes; Repurposing life experiences for music 
glitches and muscle twitches. Eclipse boundaries 
of the stage. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://musicweb.ucsd.edu/c/20170419-WEDS7Die
lsvsgomez@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://goo.gl/forms/oHhHKM8KcPU91Y2335:30am
LEARN & SERVE: GAP SERVICE 
YEAR PANEL - HORIZON ROOM, 
CAREER SERVICES CENTER
HEAR FROM UC SAN DIEGO ALUMNI ABOUT 
GETTING AHEAD BY GIVING BACK DOING A YEAR OF 
SERVICE AFTER GRADUATION! Learn about various 
gap year service programs and how serving the 
community can help prepare you for life after 
college, grad school and finding your passion. Free 
food provided! Contact: clettieri@ucsd.edu
10am
YOGA ZONE: RESTORATIVE - THE 
ZONE
In truth, restorative yoga is simply that - 
restorative. It is the centering of your breath and 
body - aligning the physical and mental by 
practicing stillness or gentle movement for 
extended periods of time. The props assist in 
helping you to hold poses longer. Led by FitLife 
instructor Nadine, this free program is on first 
come, first served basis. All materials are 
provided. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: NO BAKE 
ENERGY BITES - THE ZONE
Join us as we learn to make no bake energy bites! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu 
7:30pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Camera Lucida presents the fifth concert of its 
2016-17 season with a performance of music by 
Max Reger, Ludwig van Beethoven and Charles 
Ives. No late seating. Tickets are on sale 
exclusively through the UC San Diego Box Office. 
Limited free student tickets available at the door. 
For additional program information, please visit 
Camera Lucida's website: sdcamlu.org Contact: 
mroos@ucsd.edu Website: 11am
ART & SOUL: SUCCULENTS WITH 
SAAM - THE ZONE
Learn about how to take care of a succulent and 
how it can symbolize resilience with CARE@SARC. 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
11:30am
2017 EARTH MONTH DIY MAKER 
DAY - GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS 
ROOM
The Library's Environmental Sustainability Group 
is hosting a DIY Maker Day celebrating Earth 
Month on campus, using sustainable, non-toxic, 
reusable, and recyclable materials. Participants 
will leave with samples of projects and ideas to 
continue making eco-friendly products and 
reusing consumables on a daily basis! Contact: 
kmkane@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://libraries.ucsd.edu/blogs/blog/diy/
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from the 
R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
6pm
SYRIAN SOLIDARITY WEEK - AN 
INCLUSIVE PERSPECTIVE - PRICE 
CENTER THEATER
On behalf of UCSDâ   s Pan-Arab Student 
Association, we would like to invite you to our 
Syrian Solidarity Week. Our program intends to 
bring awareness about what is occurring in Syria. 
The Syrian conflict has become one of the worst 
humanitarian crisis of our time, and its impact 
will be felt for decades to come. As this crisis has 
grown increasingly complicated, confusion, 
xenophobia, and injustice have flourished and 
spread. Our anticipated events will target these 
issues, deconstruct fallacies, and ultimately 
provide an equitable perspective and allow us to 
stand in solidarity with one another. Throughout 
the week, there will be tabling at Library Walk 
from 10AM to 3PM, together with night events 
from April 17th to April 20th. Contact: 
ucsd.pasa@gmail.com Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/387068265011
353/
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
A practice to help increase focus and 
concentration, reduce stress and gain a sense of 
well-being. Whether or not you have ever 
meditated, you may enjoy this sampling of 
techniques as they guide you to the blissful 
silence behind thoughts. Seated, standing, lying 
down and moving techniques may be covered. 
Suitable for all levels of experience. All classes 
with Vou Athens. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
11am
SUSTAINABILITY FAIR - PRICE 
CENTER PLAZA
The annual sustainability fair is an opportunity 
for ISC orgs and outside Housing, Dining and 
Hospitality (HDH) vendors to showcase who they 
are and how they are making a positive impact on 
the earth. This is a great opportunity for students 
to learn about the various sustainability 
resources offered on campus while sampling each 
vendor and orgs products! Students who attend 
the fair will have the opportunity to win several 
raffles. The sustainability fair will be held on 
Thursday, April 20 from 11am-1pm in the Price 
Center Plaza. Contact: k7scott@ucsd.edu FRI4.21
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
riday International Cafe is a weekly lunch hosted 
by the International Center featuring a different 
country every week, where students, faculty, and 
staff can learn about the culture as well as enjoy a 
representative cuisine of the featured country. 
Invite your friends for a fun lunch and a plate full 
of delicious cuisines for $5 a plate! Time: 
12:00-1:15 PM Location: Great Hall Price: $5 a 
plate Any questions? Please email Mai Eguchi at 
maie@mail.ucsd.edu. See you there! Contact: 
maie@mail.ucsd.edu
1pm
UC SAN DIEGO SOFTBALL VS. CAL 
STATE DOMINGUEZ HILLS - TRITON 
SOFTBALL FIELD
FCome out and support your UC San Diego Tritons 
as they play against Cal State Dominguez Hills' 
Softball team! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Harsh barks
6. 1968 US Open champ
10. Word that can follow the last word 
in 17-, 24-, 47- & 60-Across and 3- & 
34-Down
14. One of the Allens
15. Farm calls
16. Word with gray or Bay
17. Strong bridge opener
19. Depend
20. It may be hard to swallow
21. Commanded
22. Collared
23. Hershiser of the diamond
24. Sign of cyberhumor
26. Tide type
28. Calm side
29. Services’ counterpart
31. “28 Days” setting
34. Not to
37. Public hangings?
38. 4:00 p.m. in London, perhaps
40. Crude stuff
41. “Golly!”
42. First-stringers
43. Split to be joined?
45. Televise
46. Caspian feeder
47. Program interruption, at times
53. River of Flanders
56. Crop up
57. “The Waltons” daughter
58. Eye with ideas
59. Fit to be tried
60. Package-mailing option
62. Seeks information
63. “That’s ___!”: “No way!”
64. One into sniggling
65. Not as much
66. Thieves hangouts
67. __ forth: et ceteraDown
1. “The best is __ come”
2. Fighting
3. Stemless musical symbol
4. Like some finished basements
5. __-cone
6. President Garfield’s middle name
7. Riyadh resident
8. Veronica of “Hill Street Blues”
9. Medium talent?
10. Jug cousin
11. Fan site
12. Memento
13. “Tell It to My Heart” singer Taylor
18. Cookbook abbr.
22. Brewpub offering
25. Oater actor Jack
27. “Funny Face” costar
29. Comical bit
30. Lucky strike
31. Actress Charlotte
32. LAX datum
33. “She Done __ Wrong”
34. Forty-niner’s disappointment
35. Snorter starter?
36. Chihuahua cheer
39. Raison d’__
44. Expose
45. Size up
46. Magazine founder Eric
47. Stuffy-sounding
48. Clear the tape
49. Flirtatious signals
50. Noted positive thinking proponent
51. Hatch from Utah
52. Puts through a food press
54. “It’s nobody __ business”
55. Fashionably old-fashioned
60. Pen partner
61. Idyllic settingBIKES
Bicycle BMX Childs Size - $45. BMX Bicycle 
Red Next Clutch RX Pro. Excellent condi -
tion. Listing ID: 154744172 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Bikes for Sale in Coronado - $225. 
Cleaning out my garage and need to sell 
three bikes. All bikes need some TLC. $75 
each bike or make me an offer. Listing ID: 
154744171 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Digital Concepts 100% Leather Camera Bag 
- $15. Brand new with tags! Unused. Can 
fit a standard camera and lenses and other 
accessories. Various pockets. Carrying strap. 
Water resistant. Lightweight and compact. 
Fully padded. From a pet-free and smoke-
free home! Listing ID: 155063175 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Tram Wired Lavalier Microphone - $175. 
This is a Tram TR-50 wired lavalier micro -
phone kit in attractive condition. It has a 
standard three pin XLR connector and is 
battery powered. The kit also includes a 
number of holders and a windscreen. I only 
used this mic on a handful of gigs and it 
has always been kept in its case away from 
moisture/dust/heat. Listing ID: 155063171 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Five Piece Dining Room Set - $325. Round 
glass dining room table and four chairs for 
sale! Gently used and like new! Listing ID: 
155054603 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Nice Area Rug - $100. Red border with reds, 
light blue and dark blue colors. Attractive 
condition. 116” long by 79” wide. Listing ID: 
155063179 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Level: 1234SUDOKU
St. Jude Novena
Say this prayer nine times per day 
for nine days. Your prayers will be 
answered just like ours. Promise to 
republish and spread the word. 
Thank you, St. Jude! 
May the Sacred Heart of Jesus 
be adored, glorified, loved and 
preserved throughout the 
world now and forever.
Sacred Heart of Jesus, 
pray for us.
St. 
St. Jude, worker of miracles, 
pray for us.
St. Jude, help of hopeless, 
pray for us.
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
SPRING 2017
M: 10am-1pm
Tu/Th:  12:30 pm-2pm
W: 10am-1pm
F: 12pm -3pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTE RHOURS
/tritonfood pantry
The UC San Diego women’s tennis 
team finished the season with a 16–5 
record overall. The Tritons started off 
their week with a loss on Wednesday 
to the Azusa Pacific University 
Cougars (5–4). The Tritons did not 
let the loss against Azusa Pacific deter 
them, and the team was able to gar -
ner a 6–3 victory over the Cal State 
Los Angeles Eagles on Saturday, April 
15. The team heads into the postsea -
son riding the success of a relatively 
successful regular season. 
Vs Azusa Pacific
The Tritons started their matches 
off strong against Azusa Pacific. The 
No. 2 doubles team of sophomore 
Ashley Chao and freshman Becky 
Chou took an 8–4 victory and the 
team of sophomores Madison Hale 
and Alexandra Weil secured an 8–3 
victory at the three. 
At the singles one spot, junior 
Britta Mosser lost (6–1, 5–7, 1–0) 
after having to retire at the end of 
the second set. Chao won her match 
against Cougar senior Lisa Schneider 
at the two spot (2–6, 6–4, 6–3). The 
only other singles player to win for 
UCSD was freshman Valeria Corral, who topped Cougar junior Jackie 
Resler in a 6–4, 6–2 straight-set vic -
tory. 
Vs Cal State LA
UCSD won only one of the three 
doubles matches against Cal State LA 
but secured five out of the six singles 
matches. The lone doubles team to 
win against the Eagles was the duo 
of Chao and Chou, who easily dis -
patched the Eagles No. 2 team in a 
quick 8–3 victory. 
Three Tritons won in straight-sets: 
Mosser at the one (7–5, 6–4), Chao at 
the two (7–5, 6–1) and Corral at 
the six (6–3, 6–3). At the three spot, 
Chou defeated Eagles junior Elizaveta 
Sokolova in a grueling 6–7 (2–7), 
6–4, 7–6 (8–6) match. Triton junior 
Jasmine Hosseini defeated Eagle 
junior Iris Raileanu at the four, grab -
bing a 2–6, 7–5, 6–4 win.
With the Tritons’ 6–3 victory over 
Cal State LA marking the end of the 
regular season, they now wait for 
the NCAA postseason selections to 
take place. The announcement will 
be made on April 25 at 5 p.m. at 
NCAA.com.
PHOTO BY ESRA ELHENDYUC San Diego Finishes Regular Season On Top With Win Against Cal State LA
The ninth ranked Tritons finish the season at 16–5  and now await postseason selections, which will be released on April 25th at 5 p.m.WOMEN'S  TENNIS
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.eduBY  R I C H A R D  L U
STAFF WRITER
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego baseball 
team finished its four-
game series against 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association South-division rival, Cal 
Poly Pomona, on Saturday evening 
with a 3–1 series defeat. The Broncos 
took the early series lead in the 
first two games at Triton Ballpark, 
taking advantage of the Tritons’ low 
scoring (four combined runs in the 
first two  games). UCSD carried 
a 0–2 series deficit as the split-
venue series moved to Pomona for a 
doubleheader on Saturday. However, 
the Tritons responded with a 7–4 
win to start off the day and carried 
the momentum into the series finale 
in hopes of taking home a 2–2 series 
split.  But, it was not meant to be as 
the Tritons took a third loss in the 
series, which gave them their first 
series loss all season, moving them 
to an overall record of 25–10 and 
17–8 in conference play. 
GAME 1
The Tritons did not start the 
series the way they envisioned it, 
taking a 7–1 home loss in the open -
er on Thursday. Their conference 
rivals, the Broncos, blew the game 
open with three runs both in the 
third and fourth inning to give them 
a 6–0 lead.  
Before the 6–0 deficit, the Tritons 
had the opportunity to potentially 
grab a solid lead in the first, when 
they had the bases loaded with only 
one out. Unfortunately, they could 
not take advantage of runners on 
base after two flyouts to end the 
inning. Interestingly enough, UCSD 
only managed to get one hit off 
the Pomona pitcher during the first 
inning, in addition to earning two 
walks in order to load the bases.  
The sole run for the Tritons 
came from a solo home run by red -
shirt senior center-fielder Brandon 
Shirley in the fifth, his second homer 
of the season. Despite a 7–1 deficit going into 
the bottom of the ninth, the Tritons 
had a chance to make it an interest -
ing ending with the bases loaded 
with two outs. Similar to the first 
inning, UCSD was able to get on 
base courtesy of three walks, howev -
er no damage was done and Pomona 
won the opening game. 
GAME 2
Friday evening gave the Tritons 
a chance to show their resilience 
and get back into the series after an 
opening loss. UCSD did just that — 
in the first inning at least. After a 
bright start to the game, the Tritons 
ended up with a 9–3 loss, their sec -
ond loss in as many games and faced 
an uphill battle going into Saturday’s 
doubleheader in Pomona. 
In the first, the Tritons came out 
swinging and it looked to be a total -
ly different story from Thursday’s 
game. UCSD ran in three to take an 
early lead and easily could have had 
more.  Though, with one out thus 
far, the Pomona pitcher settled down 
and struck out the next two Tritons 
to stop the bleeding. 
Unfortunately, the Tritons could 
not find the special formula to stop 
the Broncos from scoring as Pomona 
tied up the game at 3–3 in the fol -
lowing inning. From that point on it, 
the Tritons were unable to get their 
offense going, while Pomona had no 
problem doing so. 
The Broncos won in the latter 
innings as they brought in five runs 
in the final two innings, making the 
score 9–3. Unlike the Broncos, the 
Tritons struggled as they recorded 
one hit in the final five innings of 
the game on their way to a second 
consecutive loss.  
GAME 3 & 4
Perhaps a change of venue 
was what the Tritons needed for 
a winning effort and it definitely 
seemed like it after the first game of 
Saturday’s doubleheader in Pomona. Once again, UCSD got off to a fir -
ing start in the first inning of the 
game; however, this time around, the 
Tritons were able to bring in six runs 
to achieve a convincing 6–0 lead. 
Pomona slowly crawled its way 
back into the game with a run in the 
first, one in the fourth and two in the 
sixth to cut the deficit, 6–4. Though, 
in the seventh the Tritons added a 
run to protect the lead and it was 
enough to contain the Broncos in 
the first of two games. The 7–4 win 
gave the Tritons a chance at the split 
of the series, the significance being 
that UCSD had won every series 
thus far (nine), except for one split.  
The series finale came down to 
the wire. For the first time in the 
series it was a tight game and came 
down to the last at bat. The game was 
a low scoring affair, 2–1. However, 
the Tritons were on the wrong side 
of the scoreline as they fell to the 
Broncos to take a 3–1 series loss. 
For the Tritons in the series, their 
problems stemmed from the inabil -
ity to get runs in the latter innings, 
and it was no different in the final 
game, where they scored one in 
the first inning and none after that. 
In fact, all three hits recorded for 
UCSD were in the first inning. On 
the other hand, with the game tied 
up at 1–1 apiece, the Broncos loaded 
the bases and earned the win with a 
walk-off run batted in single.  
Next up for UCSD will be anoth -
er four-game, split venue series 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills. 
This time around, the Tritons will 
start away from home for the first 
two games, Thursday, April 20 and 
Friday, April 21 at 2 p.m. followed by 
a Saturday doubleheader to conclude 
the series at Triton Ballpark on April 
22 at 1 p.m.
After not losing a single series all year, the 
No. 4 Tritons drop their series against the 
unranked Broncos. 
by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff WriterBaseball 
Strikes Out 
Against Cal 
Poly Pomona
Daniel HERNANDEZ  DAH043@ucsd,edu
BASEBALL
PHOTO BY HENRY CHEN
PHOTO BY HENRY CHEN
PHOTO BY HENRY CHEN2 PM 
7 AM
1 PM 
1 PM 
1 PM4/20
4/21
4/21
4/22
4/22AT Cal State Dominguez Hills
AT San Diego State
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
AT Claremont Mudd-Scripps
AT San Diego StateBaseball
W. Rowing
Softball
M. Tennis
W. Water PoloUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES