VOLUME 51, ISSUE 1  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 2, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CSE 
POWERBALL
Over the summer, the computer 
science and enﬁneering 
department ofﬁcially changed 
the process for admission into 
their capped major, leaving 
many students uncertain of 
their fate.
PYTHON   COURSES
WOMEN'S  SOCCERDATA  SCIENCE  MUST-HAVE
unbea ten  in  conference  pla yOPINION,  Page   4
sports,  Page  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“LGBT+ rights would not 
be where they are now had these transgender women, drag queens, homeless LGBT+ youth, and queer people of color not chosen to fight back that morning. Yet, the movements and orga-nizations inspired by their actions have historically - and conveniently - forgotten these groups.”
- Chris Robertson
QUEERIES: OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
CRIME............................ .2
IMMIGRANT PRIVACY........4
BACK TO THE BEGINNING 8
CROSSWORD ................ 14
MEN’S SOCCER ............ 15FEATURES,  PAGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
MONDAY
H 72 L 64TUESDAY
H 72 L 60
WEDNESDAY    
H 71 L 60THURSDAY
 H 73 L 62
Pallister Hall Syndrome is a rare 
genetic defect that is usually seen 
at birth. The cause of the condition is a mutation in the GLI3 gene inherited in an autosomal dominant 
pattern, meaning that if a parent has 
the condition, the child will have a 50 percent chance of having it. Only one mutated gene out of two is needed to result in an affected individual. The condition appears in males and females equally at birth. About 100 patients have been reported so far in medical literature, 
but the actual frequency of PHS is unknown due to the variability 
of symptom strength and the symptoms themselves which could have PHS be mis- or undiagnosed in many cases. 
Symptoms for this disease can 
vary widely with some patients having only a few and others having a majority of the possible 
signs. Most with the condition 
will have extra fingers or toes (polydactyly), and the skin between the extremities will often be fused. Another significant symptom found in the reported cases is a malformation of the hypothalamus, the part of the brain that regulates the function of the pituitary gland which regulates many other bodily functions. The pituitary gland is located at the base of the brain and regulates hormones for the body, and its impaired function can cause hypothyroidism, growth hormone deficiency, seizures, and sometimes lack of cortisol production or diabetes. 
In some infants with the 
hypothalamus malformation (hypothalamic hamartoma), low or absent pituitary function may be present at birth which can lead to low blood sugar, unusually high acid levels in their blood and body Researchers to 
Test Self-Driving Cars on CampusCAMPUS
The cars will initially be used 
to improve the delivery of mail 
around campus and evaluate 
the condition of roads.
UC San Diego will be conducting 
a study of self-driving cars on 
campus coming this January. The 
study will be led by the Contextual 
Robotics Institute and will consist 
of testing self-driving cars to deliver 
mail around campus. The institute 
hopes to overcome the issue of 
students coming to the center of 
campus to pick up their mail. 
Henrik Christensen, the 
founding director of the Contextual 
Robotics Institute, leads the 
research for the self-driving cars on the UCSD campus and aims to start the study with the delivery of mail to perfect the timing of the system.
“The reason why we started with 
mail delivery rather than doing person delivery is that if mail is 10 minutes late, it is all OK. If people are 10 minutes late for class, it is not OK, ” Christensen said in a statement to the UCSD Guardian. “We are starting out where disruption in the system of 15 minutes is OK and, as we make this very robust, then we 
will slowly upgrade it. ”
The self-driving cars will do 
more than just deliver mail. The 
cars may also act as a resource to facilities management. 
“These cars will actually be able 
to determine what is the quality of the road. I can deliver a map 
to facilities saying here are all the 
potholes on campus, ” Christensen said. Christensen hopes to upgrade to a transportation system after the mail delivery system has been smoothed out. The self-driving cars at UCSD will be almost like a personal Lyft or Uber service for students.
Mohan Trivedi, a professor of 
electrical & computer engineering at UCSD, has also been working on the research for self-driving cars on the UCSD campus. Speaking on behalf of Trivedi, Doug Ramsey, the Director of Communications for the Jacobs School of Engineering  who has worked closely with Trivedi on this study, told the Guardian that 
Trivedi believes that UCSD is the 
perfect place to conduct a study like this because it is a “microcosm of a city, and it is a good idea if you are going to start doing such testing to do it in a confined area, ” but it is still important to approach this study “very carefully and very 
slowly. ”
According to Albert Pisano, the 
Dean of Engineering at UCSD, it is 
important to continue studies such as these on the UCSD campus. 
“First, it is just good research 
that helps us learn more about how Regent Sued for Allegedly Waving a Gun in Meetings
University of California Regent and 
PodcastOne founder Norman Pattiz is 
being sued by his former employee for 
allegedly using a handgun during meetings. 
Raymond Hernandez, the former PodcastOne 
employee behind the lawsuit, claims that the UC Regent used the weapon as a means for intimidation to get him to boost download 
numbers to con advertisers. 
This is not the first time that Pattiz has faced 
accusations of misconduct from employees. Just 
last year, a recording of the PodcastOne founder 
asking a female colleague to touch her breasts 
was aired on the internet, and Pattiz has a history of making such comments in the office, often making his female employees uncomfortable. 
More recently, however, Hernandez stepped 
forward about meetings with Pattiz, alleging that during such meetings, Pattiz boasted about his connections to law enforcement.
“This guy must be crazy. I’ve never met alone 
with him, ” Pattiz said in a statement to TMZ. “I didn’t hire him or fire him. I barely know who he is. The fact that I’m a law enforcement reserve is well-known as I have public service awards in my office. ”Hernandez was fired from PodcastOne, 
claiming he was fired as a revenge tactic after Pattiz believed he was the one who leaked the 
recording of the his misconduct with a former 
female employee. 
Hernandez was later hired by a different 
employer who then terminated the former 
PodcastOne employee after being urged by 
Pattiz’s company to fire him. 
“I didn’t and would never act in the manner 
that’s been described, ” Pattiz said in the statement 
to TMZ. “We have received no lawsuit but I 
presume this is in response to our letting him 
know today that we are going to sue him. His allegations are absurd. ”
While Pattiz is denying receiving the lawsuit, 
Los Angeles superior court records show documentation of a wrongful termination suit titled Raymond Hernandez v. PodcastOne Sales LLC et al. was filed on Sept. 22.
PodcastOne is now suing Hernandez for 
allegedly stealing the company’s intellectual property.
The UCSD Guardian reached out to the UC 
Office of the President on Sept. 29 for a response, but they have yet to respond.  By armonie mendez  editorial assistantUC REGENTS
The syndrome is known to lead to malformations in the hypothalamus, impairing bodily functions. DISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY revati rashingkar 
STaff writer
BY Tanaya SAwant
Contributing writer
Pallister Hall Syndrome Can Cause Extra Fingers or Toes
Junior mid fielder Summer Bales dribbles the ball during the women’s soccer game against Cal Poly Pamona on Friday. The Tritons won 1-0.
Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  UCSD
See CARS,  page 3 See DISEASE , page 3Armonie mendez   aemendez@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
Whether you study anthropology or zoology or
anything in between, learn what it takes to bringthe latest news to your fellow UCSD Tritons.
RECRUITMENT •1 0/1 2
STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 2 • 6:30 PM
 Free Pizza, People, and Plenty of Paper.
APPLY NOW, ROLLING APPLICATIONS!MOVING IN By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Marcus is hella salty af.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Nathaniel Walker, Armonie Mendez, Tina Chen 
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb The Los Angeles County Sheriff ’s 
Office found UC San Diego student 
Brayan “Brian” Rodriguez strangled 
to death in Santa Clarita on Sunday. 
According to a spokesperson for the 
Sheriff ’s Office, Rodriguez’s 
boyfriend, Christian Ortiz, was arrested as a suspect in Rodriguez’s homicide early this morning and is 
being held with $1-million bail. 
Reported missing by his family 
on Friday afternoon, Rodriguez was 
found by deputies in a home where 
Ortiz supposedly lived and was 
pronounced dead at the scene. 
“Based on interviews and 
evidence at the location, it was 
determined that the unidentified 
victim died at the hands of another and the suspect was responsible for 
his death, ” the Sheriff ’s Office stated 
in a news release.
Officials suggested that they are 
aware of a motive for the homicide, 
but they have yet to disclose what it 
is or what led them to connect Ortiz 
with the crime.  
Ortiz is set to appear in court 
in San Fernando on Thursday, and 
the Los Angeles County Sheriff ’s Department Homicide Bureau urges 
anyone with information to contact 
them at 323- 890-5500.
The UCSD administration has 
yet to release a statement regarding 
Rodriguez’s death.Incoming UCSD Student Found Dead in Santa Clarita from StranglingCAMPUS
BY lauren holt
news editor
lauren hol t  lcholt@ucsd.eduThe boyfriend of Brayan Rodriguez, Christian Ortiz, was arrested by L.A. County deputies and charged with the homicide. A Number of  the Symptoms Can Be Treated, Such As With Surgery
tissues, abnormal electrolyte levels, 
and jaundice.  They could also have 
craniofacial abnormalities such as unusually small ears rotated to the 
back of the head, an unusually small 
tongue, a longer vertical groove in 
the middle of the upper lip, or a 
short nose with upturned nostrils 
with a flat or broad nasal bridge. 
Other additional signs could be 
presence of certain teeth at birth, 
dislocated hips, or abnormally short 
arms or legs.  
Most of the infants born with 
the condition do not have fatal abnormalities, but some have an early lethality variant of the disorder most likely caused by the effects 
of the hypothalamic hamartoma or 
severe airway malformations. 
Diagnosis of the condition is 
made through a detailed clinical 
evaluation and family history, as well as an MRI to detect a possible 
hypothalamic hamartoma and its 
dimensions. Molecular genetic 
testing can be used to identify mutation in the GLI3 gene and 
confirm the condition, especially 
for the patients with milder symptoms. Infants born with absent or low pituitary function are immediately put on hormone replacement therapy with close monitoring. Surgical removal of 
the extra digits are typically done 
in infancy, although the surgeries 
are increasingly being done later 
in life due to concerns about the 
cognitive effects of anesthesia in young children. Seizures can be 
treated with with anticonvulsant 
medication and genetic counseling 
is usually recommended for the patient and their family. people and machines interact, ”  
Pisano said. “Second, there is a lot 
of work being done in autonomous vehicles and how machines and 
people would share the road. Third, 
there is a very useful set of data for 
autonomous vehicle manufacturers 
to be aware of. ”
The self-driving car study is 
one way for students to participate 
in the research that goes on at 
UCSD. Christensen mentioned that 
there are various opportunities for 
undergraduates to be involved, 
whether it be research on vehicles or building better vehicles.
Pisano added, “For all students 
involved in robotics or human 
machine interfaces or computer 
science, this study is very valuable 
and useful for their academic 
careers and research projects. ”
UCSD’s engineering department 
also has other studies it is conducting aside from the self-
driving car study. Studies involve 
human machine interfaces and robots being used to teach children. 
@UCSDGUARDIANFOLLOW US ON TWITTERNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
10/6 - Streetside Cinema • 10/7 - Haunted Hoedown
10/13 - Comedy Night • 10/14 - Poolside Cinema
EVENTS START AT 8pm
visit tritonfest.ucsd.edu for event detailsStudents Can Participate in Engineering Research
tanaya sawant  TSWAnant@ucsd.edu▶ DISEASE, from page 1
Rev ati rashingkar rrashing @ucsd.edu▶ CARS, from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
As government moves into the 
21st century, social media has become 
an unlikely, yet powerful, tool of law enforcement. In 2013, Ross Ulbricht (self-named Dread Pirate Roberts), 
the former head of a $1-billion drug 
and contraband website, was traced down through old Twitter posts he made, ultimately leading to his arrest and the fall of a website that trafficked over $1 million of items a day. More recently, two Charlottesville 
protesters were arrested when photos 
of them beating an unarmed black man circulated across social media, allowing researchers to uncover their names and a shocking amount of personal information just through crowd sourcing. The Department of Homeland Security has now announced plans to use social media for a far less justifiable purpose — to 
monitor the social media accounts of 
all U.S. immigrants.
The proposed surveillance which 
would go into effect on Oct. 18 would implement a wide-ranging surveillance of all of U.S. immigrants with the intent to link online aliases with real-world identities as reported by Vice. Even more worrisome, this program would not discriminate between U.S. citizens, visa holders or permanent residents; 
all recent immigrants or families of 
immigrants would be targeted and find their information harvested for reasons of supposed national security. Although the DHS has not formally announced how it will sift through the gigantic pile of data, it seems 
quite likely that online accounts will 
be profiled to determine geographic location (through IP addresses or post history), familial ties (to check for family in foreign countries), and racial information (to determine citizenship status). This proposed plan has understandably worried privacy groups and digital-rights activists, who see this as an unnecessary intrusion of 
online privacy.
More worrying, however, is 
how this policy is clearly furthering 
President Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda, especially for young adults who are most likely to be active on social media websites. In the past, the federal government and National Security Agency have been all too eager to racially profile Americans of color, even those who are 
clearly not suspected of any terrorist 
activity. In fact, a good number of the Muslim Americans targeted through NSA wiretapping were politicians, community organizers, and religious leaders with no affiliation to any form of terrorism. These people were not 
threatening to the nation, yet they 
were deemed “dangerous” for their racial and religious backgrounds. A similar situation is now occurring for immigrants in social media, and it seems quite likely that the Trump administration will quietly substitute “immigrants” for “groups of color” under the justification that they are linked, much like how “terrorists” and 
“Muslim Americans” have supposed 
links in the War on Terror.
While the data-mining of 
immigrant accounts is worrying enough, the biggest concern is what the information could be used for after it has been gathered. With over 90 percent of young adults reporting at least some social media usage and the vast majority of social media being publically accessible, the Department 
of Homeland Security stands to greatly 
increase its surveillance of nearly every American, especially since nearly every person in the U.S. has had some connection with an immigrant. These connections essentially give the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
unfettered access to nearly every 
American’s social media profile, opening the door to serious issues of civil suppression or manipulation in the future. Although there are no public plans to use this information for any nefarious purposes, this data will likely be held forever, with no guarantee of deletion. In the wrong hands, this information is dangerous, 
and the FBI should not be collecting it, 
lest it be used for nefarious purposes years from now.CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org OPINION
See PUTIN, page 5
DHS Monitoring Immigrant Social Media Info 
Unjustifiable and Potentially DangerousIf there ever were a big bang for 
LGBT+ people in America, it was the 
Stonewall riots. Of course LGBT+ people existed before the riots, but in the wee hours of June 28, 1969, 
queer people thrusted themselves 
into the mainstream American consciousness. This demonstration of queer fury set the stage for the Gay Liberation Movement of the ‘70s and ‘80s, and what a time to do it; the civil rights movement and second-wave feminism were both in full swing at the time. 
Beginning in the early morning, 
a police raid — one of many that plagued early queer spaces —  swept through an LGBT+-friendly bar, the Stonewall Inn. While the harassment and arrest of queer people were nothing new for the era, this particular raid sparked an auspicious moment of very boisterous, and very 
public, resistance. The Stonewall Inn’s 
clientele — mostly queer people of color, drag queens, and homeless queer youth —  found themselves in a hostile brawl between the New Y ork Police Department and dozens of queer people from New York’s Greenwich Village. 
The riots left a remarkable 
legacy. Earlier in time, the greater American psyche saw queer people as a scattered minority — out of sight, out of mind. But the Stonewall riots brought into the fray the dense concentration of queer people who had otherwise been suppressed. Within months, the Mattachine Society for gay men and the Daughter 
of Bilitis for lesbians formed to 
oppose government repression, and three newspapers began their public criticism of social and governmental discrimination. Almost 50 years later, similar waves of civil disobedience have led to marriage equality, some expansion in workplace equality, and a more visible presence of the LGBT+ 
community. 
The word “legacy” comes with 
a heavy burden, however; it implies 
a responsibility to authentically maintain the intent behind the original resistance. LGBT+ rights would not be where they are now had these transgender women, drag queens, homeless LGBT+ youth, and 
queer people of color not chosen 
to fight back that morning. Yet, the movements and organizations inspired by their actions have historically — and conveniently — forgotten these groups. Queer people constitute 40 percent of homeless youth, transgender people are four times more likely to live in extreme poverty, and almost 80 percent of transgender people report 
experiencing harassment. In 2014, 
trans people of color constituted the majority of murders of LGBT+ people: 16 out of 20 reported cases.   
The LGBT+ community once 
called itself a “community of difference” due to its history of diverse people under one banner of sexual and gender freedom. Pride 
parades launch every summer to pay 
homage to the Stonewall riots, but we do a disservice to these early activists by continuing to ignore the high homicide rates of transgender people, homelessness among LGBT+ youth, and the particularly violent treatment of queer people of color.
BY NATE WALKER // ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR“Maybe you should come back 
when you’ve learned Python … ” he said at the interview. I wasn’t surprised. Despite having taken all the introductory computer science classes 
and learning the popular programming 
languages Java, C, and C++, the gods of bioinformatics have spoken, and their voices boom “LEARN PYTHON!” Having scoured through countless job listings requiring Python under skills, used several applications written in Python and R, and even taken a class where the professor said on the first 
day, “Everyone here knows Python, 
right?” — it was clear I was behind. 
For a tool so prevalent — in and out 
of bioinformatics — it doesn’t make a 
whole lot of sense why our computer science department has neglected Python, a more contemporary language, as a lower division class. Python is unavoidable for nearly all types of people interested in computer science and data science, particularly beginners, and UC San Diego should offer Python as an introductory class within the department for this reason.
Python is ubiquitous, often taught 
as a course for beginner programmers and data scientists. It is the most popular 
language for teaching introductory 
computer science courses at top-
ranked U.S. departments. Universities highly regarded in computer science, including MIT and UC Berkeley, hold introductory courses in Python. In fact, this is a common trend among the University of California system as well; UCLA and UC Irvine both have Python as part of their preliminary curriculum. 
It’s not surprising why. Python 
emphasizes readability, thus coders can 
focus on getting used to programming 
concepts and logical paradigms before getting bogged down by syntax. It’s often more intuitive and allows for faster development (and thus, many times faster turnaround in research) compared to Java, the current lower division requirement for CS students at UC San Diego. Of course, as with every language, there are hindrances. 
One of the unique aspects of Python 
is that it is built on top of more complicated languages (such as C), yielding a decrease in speed. For certain sectors of development, such as mobile applications, Python is usually not the first choice. However, the power of its data analysis framework lends to the idea that any field which 
accumulates data — so nearly every 
field — could benefit from Python 
competence.
And they do. Despite its gradual 
learning curve, Python is not solely for 
those starting out — organizations in web development, finance, education, and gaming use Python as a part of their development. Nearly 10,000 recorded companies, including Google, IBM, and Dropbox have 
See PYTHON, page 4 ▶
If an industry expects 
fluency in Python, 
the university has a 
responsibility to provide 
that skill.Queeries
Stonewall’s 
Legacy:
History of 
Diversity
Both pervasive and easy to learn compared 
to other high-level computing languages, Python ought to be implemented into UCSD's CS curriculum.CHRISTOPHER 
ROBERTSON
BY AARTHI VENKAT
ILLUSTRATION BY DANIEL JUAREZCO-OPINION EDITOR
Ubiquitous and Industry-Favored, Python Should 
Be Taught in Introductory Coding Courses
na te w alker  nwalker@ucsd.eduOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •   San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
ultrazonesd
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE  
NIGHT ” 
Thursday — 
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LASER TAG!
LASER TAG!
COLLEGE  
3rd Game FREE
LASER TAG!
Huge Party Area 
to 150+ Guests
LATE NIGHT  
at the ZONE 
Friday & Saturday — 
Midnight to 2am
20% OFF   your event!
 20
% OFF
   
 % OFF
   % OFF
 your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.comUCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
Wanna Hook Up?
...Uh, with sic deals that is.
Visit www.ultrazonesandiego.com!Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Officeand PepperCanyon HallOutsideBookstore atLibrary WalkGilmanParking Office
7–8:30 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,and 4–5 p.m.weekdays
Current registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded.  
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/25/2017Weekdays
8:30 a.m. to4 p.m.As needed per signs at Gilman Parking OfficePython as one of the official languages. 
In niches like bioinformatics, Python is particularly popular due to the benefits of scripting and proof-of-concept algorithm development. Even 
some opportunities for economics 
students require fluency in Python. According to Stack Overflow’s 2017 developer analysis, Python ranks fifth in usage (behind JavaScript, SQL, Java, and C#), but ranks higher than all four in the “most loved” category. Out of all the top languages, only Python and Node.js increased in popularity 
over the last four years.
None of this is new to many 
students who have had the same 
experiences as I have. When the professor asked if everyone knew Python, nearly 95 percent of the class said yes, one student telling the professor that they all needed to teach themselves. At a Bioinformatics 
Town Hall Meeting hosted by UCSD’s 
Undergraduate Bioinformatics Club (UBIC), one of the points addressed was the need for a lower-division Python class, to which the Bioengineering and Computer Science advisors replied that, with the CS Department’s resources, they currently cannot implement the language into the curriculum, citing 
classes like BENG 100 and certain 
COGS classes (such as COGS 9) that do — but not nearly as extensively as the CS classes for programming languages.
Without many options from our 
institution to learn the language, students who are familiar with coding turn to online tutorials such as 
Codecademy and edX courses. While 
these courses prove to be beneficial for many, there are cons to learning coding online, particularly in that it is difficult to teach mindset and logic through bite-sized lessons. Students who would like an introduction to programming and prefer an in-class environment can take classes with 
MATLAB like NANO 15, CSE 7, 
and courses in the MATH 20 series. However, it’s worth noting that MATLAB does not offer the same generic functionality as general-purpose languages like Python. Other options for beginners include MAE 5, an “introductory course for nonengineering majors” which teaches students BASIC, a nearly obsolete language, or Java through 
CSE 8A and 8B — if they can get 
into the classes. And, if they do, they’ll be doing assignments such as picture editing, something one could do in seconds with a photo editor, or anything involving the Swing GUI toolkit, which has faded into obscurity due to better visualization tools like Javascript. 
If the department recognizes that 
people of all backgrounds want to try their hand at programming, and that Python is growing insurmountably, then it should make a concerted effort to expand the curriculum to involve the language. After all, if an industry expects fluency in Python, the university has a responsibility to 
provide that skill. WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
▶ PYTHON, from page 4
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
opinion@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
SUSANTI SARKAR & TIMOTHY DENG
features@ucsdguardian.org
The computer science and engineering department does 
not function like your average UC San Diego discipline. The 
CSE department is extremely popular, with an undergraduate population of 1,961 students in 2016 and an even larger number of students interested in majoring in the field. Computer science and engineering is one of UCSD’s capped majors, meaning enrollment is limited and selective.
To combat the ever-increasing interest, the CSE department 
recently altered how students enter the major. Previously, undecided students could apply after taking their lower-division CSE courses, and if they had a GPA of 3.9 or higher, they would likely get into the major. In its place, the department has installed a lottery system through which any undeclared student who wishes to enter CSE and has a lower-division CSE GPA above 3.3 can enter the running for one of the major slots available. 
Instead of enrolling students holistically or based on GPA, 
the department selects at random — assuming they exceed the 3.3 CSE GPA threshold. With the lottery system, all students are equally considered despite differences in their experience, drive, and ability. 
When asked about the 
implications of the new system — and possible disadvantage to high-performing students — CSE Chair Dean Tullsen explained, “a lotter y, by definition, is fair.”
“I think there’s this false assumption that the students who 
work harder are the ones who are getting the 4.0s, that hard work directly translates to a higher grade. [The lottery system will] admit a lot of hard-working students who weren’t getting in before,” CSE Vice-Chair for Undergraduate Education Christine Alvarado added. 
The CSE administration believes the new system will 
take pressure off students and allow a more diverse pool of thinkers into their majors. Despite the positives the CSE administration outlines, there are caveats. Two quandaries accompany the lottery system. Victor Chen, a Warren College junior and CSE major who transferred to CSE from electrical and computer engineering articulated his concerns, “The problem with the lottery is that there is absolutely no guarantee of admission.” This “wastes a lot of time” for students who take courses in CSE with the hope of admission but fail to receive it. Additionally, it is an exorbitant waste of monetary resources to take courses that fulfill major credit if they cannot successfully win the randomized lottery. While the new lottery system allows people with lower GPAs to access the CSE department, Chen argued it is less fair. Since the number of spots for students is not growing, the highest-achieving students are disadvantaged. 
Junior CS major and Warren student, Kaylie Lu, clarified 
the second caveat: A student can only apply for admission into the CSE department a total of two times. Lu explained that this limit “leads people into other departments, like Math/CS or Cognitive Science, [Human Computer Interaction specialization].” Students are discouraged by the CSE department’s rates of admission when they either use up their application chances or move on out of fatigue from the uncertainty. Chen agreed that some of his friends experienced this feeling of “resignation” and discouragement from computer science and engineering. Many of these students still plan to work in a computer science field after graduation, but will not have the same CSE resources as CSE majors during their undergraduate years.
When comparing the old admission system with the new 
lottery system, it can be extrapolated that GPA is the only factor in acceptance into CSE — and has been since the 
major became capped.  “A lot of people used to drop the class if they had an A-, B+ so that it wouldn’t affect their GPA,” Chen reported. According to the 2016 academic history widget, in Winter Quarter, CSE 30 had 25.6 percent of 
the class — and 36 students — drop with a W, a percentage that other disciplines rarely see. In contrast, similarly-sized lower-division classes PHYS 4A and TDGE 11 had withdrawal rates of less than five percent in 2015, at 3.8 percent and 3.9 percent, respectively. This high CSE withdrawal rate wastes valuable classroom space.
Some students believe that they can be the exception and 
gain entry into CSE despite its cap —  for them, Tullsen stated that the lottery system “sends a more correct message [to admitted, but undeclared students] that it is hard to get in the major after you get here.” The lottery takes stress off and takes the pressure out of the students’ hands. The CSE department is hopeful this change will reduce stress. 
Another barrier Chen noted is the difficulty of lower-
division CSE classes for those with limited exposure to high school computer science. Chen said that without taking AP computer science in high school, CSE 11 is exponentially harder. While the CSE department does offer a dual-course option, CSE 8A and 8B, as a CSE 11 alternative, this approach burdens students with an additional lower-division course in a highly competitive environment. This disadvantages students without access to computer science courses in high school and disproportionately affects lower-income students from 
For years, the CSE department has 
admitted students 
based solely on GPA, 
but a major change 
has now arrived.The
CSE
Powerball
by Jordan Packer // T&D Editor
Illustrstion by Dalida Rached
SeeCODING  page 7
The problem with the lottery is that 
there is absolutely no guarantee of 
admission.” This “wastes a lot of time” 
for students who take courses in CSE 
with the hope of admission but fail to 
receive it.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
by Jordan Packer // T&D Editorschools lacking the funding for these extraneous programming 
classes.
It can be isolating and challenging to come in with no prior 
experience and is doubly so for women in CSE. Lu explained that CSE is about 20 percent women, and while the professors are 
“enthusiastic about females in CS,” imposter syndrome proliferates 
when one enrolls in an 80-percent male class. When surrounded by 
people who don’t look like oneself, a person may develop a feeling 
of alienation. While no one has belittled Lu in CSE, she said this alienation creates a lack of confidence in female CSE majors. “In order to feel confident doing something, you want to see others who look like you,” Lu said. 
The CSE department aims to combat this with a program called 
Summer Program for Incoming Students, or SPIS (pronounced “spice”), that takes place the summer before freshman year. Freshly-admitted CSE students can learn the basics of programming in a less stressful environment. Revelle College junior Niral Patel, a CSE major with no high school experience in CS, described her time in SPIS as a positive but “sheltered part of CS.” Patel explained that the program accepts 48 students, but not without expense. The SPIS program costs $2,000, which is lower than its claimed retail price of “over $4,000” but still a hefty amount. This unintentional classism disadvantages lower-income students. Patel said the program made her more comfortable as a freshman, a feeling less advantaged students may not experience in CSE. She noted that, “I would be lost without those mentors [from SPIS].” 
When students do not have access to the mentorship that Patel 
received, they can feel isolated and overwhelmed by the attendant academic pressures. The problem is a lack of resources. The CSE department has the right idea but not enough resources to expand and benefit all its interested students. Lu described these as “growing pains.” Chen explained that “we need more faculty [and] more classrooms” to keep up with the number of CSE students. For the casual observer, it may seem that the department isn’t growing fast enough to keep up with the demand, but the CSE department is working to solve the problem. 
“We are trying to grow our resources as fast as we can; what 
we want to be is a large department that educates every student that comes into our program well. We are very dependent on the 
university because year by year they tell us who and how many we 
can hire and so we need to keep delivering the message to them 
that this is not a demand that is going away,” said Tullsen. Tullsen 
clarified that the CSE department has only been able to hire “three ladder-rank faculty and one teaching faculty, and it’s hard to do more than that in a year” despite demand being larger than that. Tullsen later reached out to correct this number, claiming that 14 faculty — including teaching faculty — have been hired in the last two years. If the CSE department “just keeps doing that for several years,” Tullsen believes we’ll be in a better position down the line. 
The department does care. CSE has town hall meetings for 
students to voice concerns and releases statistics for new and current students to see how impacted their programs are.
But that doesn’t mean all is well; students still feel disadvantaged 
and unheard. “[If admitted undeclared] I probably would have stopped trying to get CS and would have switched into HCI by now,” Patel said. The lottery system, unfortunately, does not create a solution to this problem; students will still be unable to enter the major and forced to find an alternative. 
Chen has hope that the new Data Science major beginning Fall 
Quarter 2017 will help with the influx of CSE majors by diverting some of those students, but expresses that students’ struggles won’t end soon. He added, “UCSD wants you to come undecided and pay tuition regardless of your inability to get in the major you want … even if [undeclared students interested in CSE] are super talented, I’ d recommend to go elsewhere [for college]. ”
jordan packer   development@ucsdguardian.org▶ CODING, from page 6WEEKEND
A&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Autumn is the season that feels 
more like a new year than 
the actual new year at the 
beginning of January. Going through the K-12 education system, my body 
and brain had been accustomed to 
feel that way along with feeling `the 
cool breeze in my face and admiring 
colorful leaves as “back to school” 
begins. If going back to school made me feel simultaneously annoyed and 
excited thinking about homework 
and new friends, at some point, I 
became callous to those sentiments. 
Before coming to UC San Diego, 
I took my time in a local community 
college after graduating from high 
school. My parents were surprisingly 
chill with my decision, as they seemed to understand my years of 
struggle living an unsettling life. My 
brother and I moved to different 
countries and schools every other 
year, so I really wanted to have a long 
break and settle down after carefully 
thinking how I should figure out my 
future. Thankfully, I got accepted to 
UCSD as a communication major in 
Fall Quarter 2016.
To be honest, my first impression 
of UCSD was not the best with friends parroting “UC Socially Dead. ” 
In addition, when I first arrived at 
my dorm, many roommates were 
so jet-lagged there was barely any 
communication between us. I also 
found myself somewhat lucky as 
a first-year transfer student being placed in a single room, but as 
solitary as it was, I began to think I’ d 
probably graduate with no friends. 
However as the days went, I grew 
to love the people and the school 
around me. Soon, roommates became 
friends and we all took advantage of 
the blessed location of the school. 
Living close to nature, such as La 
Jolla’s beaches and nearby hiking trails, and having a cute downtown 
to visit provided us peace and solace. 
For the first time I could remember, 
I felt stability in my life.
I wanted a chance to study in a 
new environment outside my comfort 
zone and to make new friends by 
attending UCSD. I also hoped to 
make myself busy with club activities. So far, I am not disappointed when it 
comes to accomplishing those goals. 
But, I still believe there are more 
things to do here at UCSD. I trust 
my decision and hope to see what the 
school has to offer me in the future.
Now, as I begin the new autumn 
season and Fall Quarter, I am 
beginning this “new year” as a new 
person with different thoughts, 
perspectives, and ideologies than last fall. In fact, I even gained a 
new opportunity to study abroad in 
Seoul, Korea. Now, it is impossible to 
imagine myself at a different school. I 
believe UCSD’s people and its culture 
have provided me with fulfilling 
experiences that changed me for the 
better.BACK TO THE 
BEGINNING
From Decisions to Accomplishments
by Alice Lee //  Lifestyle Writer
First steps onto a college campus 
are almost disturbingly too similar to the first steps a 
wavering, table-gripping toddler would attempt. As infants leave the 
confident comfort of crawling and 
charge forward — with the near immediate response of tumbling back down — so too can bright-eyed, new students go forth with aspiration, anxious of what tumbles and roadblocks may, or more so inevitably, come. 
In 2014, yours truly found herself 
at the foot of Q200 in Thurgood Marshall College. Completely unsure 
of how Dimensions of Culture would 
tie into the development of critical writing skills, she wore “undeclared” like a pitiful badge on her sleeve while hiding desperation, excitement, and newfound independence behind a Ralphs bag of bananas her mom gifted as a parting gesture of proximal parenting. Now, this is 
not an all-encompassing experience 
that everyone undergoes but a small piece to a multidimensional, larger narrative that is a UC San Diego college experience. Each experience, background, and story is valid in its own right, and this one just happens to be one of many. 
Back to that Saturday in 
September — after goodbyes had been said and suitemates materialized from behind their Facebook profiles, the reality of new beginnings can settle in alongside the new bed comforter and a room that has been passed down from 
generations of UCSD Tritons. Come 
December, novelties wore down as realities unearth and identities shift. And as weeks morphed into months, months into quarters, a Central Valley transplant found herself in a deep sea of courses and part-time jobs that didn’t resurrect any dying dreams, 50 pages deep into Ronald Takaki’s “ A Different Mirror, ” and wondering whether or not she’ d 
actually find a job in four years 
while eating greasy quesadillas on a Wednesday night. 
Unbeknownst to this Marshall-
ite freshman was that the beginning of college would lead into a deeper acknowledgement of “beginnings. ” Rather than forging a crusade ahead, the start of freshman year 
ignited a trajectory that reflected 
backward in order to understand more fully how to go forward. The beginning of college catalyzed some extracurricular learning of internalized identities. Freshman year was a reminder of how family sacrifices simultaneously for past, 
present, and future generations as 
I spent hours re-analyzing what it meant to be a daughter. Sophomore year looked back to the implications of navigating between the worlds of being Chinese at home and trying to be American everywhere else, not to mention the additional layer 
gender always brings along. Junior 
year encompassed the origins of why there was a personal pursuit of public health academia to begin with. Retrospectively, the beginning of freshman year only kickstarted the exposure of earlier, unprocessed identities and hopes. 
Fast forward to fall of 2017, and a 
little Central Valley transplant finds herself at the foot of a campus she 
has walked too many times now. 
Assured now that DOC taught more than writing, but how word translates into voice, and how voice translates into activism. She wears public health and urban studies more like a proud badge on her sleeve and tentatively exposes vulnerability rather than hiding desperation. 
But she now also embraces a cross 
section of identities and redemption of past aspirations. She still carries a bag of bananas, bought herself this time around, and with it, her mom’s advice to eat more fruits and vegetables.
Her only complaint is for 
OceanView Terrace to bring back the greasy quesadillas every Wednesday night.
Beginning of  Beginnings: A Fourth Year’s Reflections
by Brittney Lu //  Associate Lifestyle EditorInspired by the start of the new school year, 
Lifestyle writers reminisce about the academic, social, and cultural experiences that aided them 
in shaping their identities.LIFESTYLE     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
Empower Others Through Psychology
21652Various fields w ithin psycholog y are quickly grow ing and call for dedicated professionals ready to make a difference in the lives of  others.  
Prepare for these opportunities and advance your career with a master’s degree from Azusa Pacific. Benefit from a blend of classroom  
learning and practical application led by experienced faculty-mentors who integrate a Christian perspective in the field.
M.S. in Child Life
Prepare to become a qualified, compassionate child health care 
professional and help support children and their families facing 
challenging experiences, particularly traumatic medical situations. 
Learn more: apu.edu/childlifeM.S. in Research Psychology and Data Analytics
Cultivate advanced knowledge of social, behavioral, and psychological processes to prepare for the growing field of research and data analysis, and complete your degree in just one year.
Learn more: apu.edu/researchpsych
GET STARTED TODAY!  Call (626) 815-4570  
or email gpadmissions@apu.edu.BACK TO THE 
BEGINNINGWhen I first moved to San 
Francisco for high school, it did not feel like that much of 
a change from Paris. San Francisco is a pretty European city — small, compact, 
multiethnic, and multicultural. The 
vibe specific to San Francisco in some 
neighborhoods is very similar, not 
incredibly overwhelming but rather, 
iconic. I had gotten used to dressing 
up for school, wearing boots, jeans, 
suspenders, and ties. I was known 
to be the “guy who dresses well. ” It 
didn’t take long for some people at 
my new school to ask me point blank 
if I was metrosexual. But it didn’t 
really matter. San Francisco had a 
manageable climate and an overall 
accepting community that celebrated 
diversity and differences. Haight-Ashbury became a refuge where I 
wasn’t worried about what others 
would think of me. Then came college.
The San Diego vibe, especially 
on campus, was very different from 
what I was used to. Especially during orientation and Week 0, my only concern was to fit in. Out were the boots, button downs, and suspenders 
and in were the jeans, T-shirts, and 
sneakers. For the first few weeks of 
my freshman year, I had to make up 
events for which I would dress up. I 
didn’t feel confident enough to just 
say: I’m dressing up because I want to. 
There always had to be a reason, a club 
meeting, an important interview. But 
the confidence slowly grew.
That’s when I hit another 
roadblock. If you’ve ever waited in 
line for a career fair or walked across 
campus to get to class, you’ll have 
noticed that Southern California 
fashion is primarily based on weather. 
Just walking five minutes will have 
me drenched in sweat, gasping for air, and trying desperately to understand 
why in the world I thought wearing 
several layers of clothing was a good 
idea. Now, some people managed to 
be impeccably dressed at all times, 
regardless of the weather, and I say props to them. But I couldn’t, and I learned to pick my days and adapt my outfits to manage one temperature in 
the morning and another one in the 
afternoon.
Moving off campus my third year 
made this even harder. Suddenly I 
couldn’t just come back home and 
change, I always had to plan for the 
whole day. With time, I adapted, 
and am now able to complete that 
challenge. My wardrobe has evolved 
from carrying a bouquet of colors 
to monochromatic tones of black, 
white, and red. My style has mostly 
stayed the same from my first day 
in college until today: polos, button 
downs, suspenders, ties, and socks, 
plenty of wonderfully colorful socks. 
As I begin my fourth and final year here at UCSD, I’ d like to think I’ve 
mastered the San Diego weather. I do 
not know if that’s correct, but I’ve at 
least improved. And this year, maybe 
I can finally say I’m dressed this way 
because I want to.Nestled past Revelle College’s 
flat cement grid of 
apartments and bike racks 
is our very own Original Student Center, a veritable eyesore of aged wood and ‘70s aesthetic design. I’m 
proud to call it home. 
“Couches, couches, couches, 
couches, which one should I 
pick?” Kanye’s deep appreciation 
of furnishings with both form and function is inspirational and, put 
simply, easy to sympathize with. Who doesn’t enjoy a brief moment of lumbar support or a spot to collapse 
on after work, before meetings, or on 
the way to class? I can’t speak for all, but I will — we all do. Sure, it may 
have been the aura of community 
and anti-authoritarianism prevalent in the center’s air that dragged me 
in, but the couches are what kept me 
there. My freshman year, with little to do but spend $12 per meal at our dining halls or continue watching 
“Weeds” en masse with the suite, had nothing going on until I attended a 
UCSD Guardian recruitment event. It all changed the moment I entered those sweet offices that one fateful 
73-degree winter day.
With couches spread out as far 
as my astigmatic eyes could see, I began to question my being. 
Was I alive? Was this heaven? Was this hell? A glitch in the matrix? 
A hedonist’s fever dream? No, this 
was just a humble spot willing to shelter the poor, vitamin-deficient bodies of aspiring writers from the 
uncaring sun. Every passing month, every passing glance directed at the 
couches while cruising through the office had established a sense of comfort usually held only by the 
truly free people who wear toe socks 
and crocs without irony. Would this — four old, nay, aged couches — be 
the peak of my uneventful life? No, 
sirree, you gotta catch them all.
My journey didn’t stop there; 
after visiting the hallowed halls of the Guardian Offices I continued my 
quest through the Original Student 
Center. The General Store Co-Op, in its self-sufficient and cooperative glory, housed three more couches. 
There was no turning back after that. If I secured a job there, I’ d become 
an honorary resident of the Original Student Center, free to dart between my fellow couches on a daily basis. 
With my lack of self-control and 
penchant for plush furniture, no one could stop me. Days after, I came in 
with all required documents blazing. 
I wasn’t hired. Don’t fear, dear reader; I care too much about couches and 
cooperatives to give up after one 
try. After another shameless attempt the following quarter, I achieved nirvana. Employed and ebullient at 
a nexus of convenience. Who needs capital when you have comfort?
There’s something about this 
center’s walls and stuccoed ceilings 
that escapes flattering description. 
There’s abundant natural lighting, 
but that has been the sun’s responsibility for a couple years now. 
Lacking in aesthetics but high on 
life, there’s a certain serenity here that isn’t present anywhere else on 
campus. For lack of a better word and 
another open search tab, this place truly is special. Nowhere else will you find cheap vegan food, Arizonas 
for the oft-unrespected price of $1 as it says on the can, radical literature, 
student radio, a sci-fi library, and a bounty of chalkboard sexual innuendo. I should know; I’m going 
to practically live here again for one 
final year.Fashion Statements: Adapting to the San Diego Vibe
by Marcus Thuillier // Managing Editor
This summer, I had the 
opportunity to revisit my 
heart’s first home. 
Equipped with a book, fuzzy socks, 
and one pre-downloaded episode of “The Flash” that I hadn’t seen yet, 
my mother, brother, and I boarded a 
plane for the 14-hour flight that would 
take us 7,000 miles over the Pacific, 
zooming past Hawaii and Guam 
and eventually landing in Manila, 
Philippines.
It’s been nearly 12-and-a-half years 
since I last lived on those islands. 
When I was six, we packed our bags 
and moved to the opposite side of 
the globe to glittery San Francisco, where I’ve lived ever since. I grew up 
in California, and though I don’t have 
many memories of the Philippines, as 
soon as we stepped off the plane into the damp humidity, I felt a sense of 
relief and calm wash over me. 
To me, the Philippines is 
emblematic of my youth, a fairytale 
land that I only really remember because of the stories told about it. But 
that doesn’t make it any less special. 
Where I’m from is coconuts fresh off 
trees and wading in crystal waters, 
pushing past people on bustling 
sidewalks and finding the best banana 
or turon from a street vendor. Where 
I’m from is sinking into the same 
couch at my grandparents’ that I’ve 
been sitting on for years, the heavy 
tones of Tagalog ringing through 
the walls, and the smell of sizzling garlic starting off a meal. Where I’m 
from is frizzy hair that no product 
can really fix, sitting bravely through 
thunderstorms even though I’m still afraid of them sometimes, visiting a 
relative that lives on the 42nd floor, 
getting to see the expanse that is 
Manila spread out before me, and 
shacks and skyscrapers coexisting in a world that doesn’t seem quite real. 
Where I’m from is a mix of my 
past and my present self, a blending 
of childhood and adulthood. Over 
the next few weeks, I’ll be writing 
about what it means to grow up in two 
wildly different countries and what 
my five-week trip to the Philippines 
taught me. I’ve learned so many things 
about culture, family, home, and many 
more abstract concepts, but I’ve also 
learned a lot about my own identity. For me, going back this summer 
was incredibly regrounding and eye-
opening, and I’m excited to share my 
stories and experiences with you all. Tales of  a Philippine Life: Back to My Roots
by Annika Olives //  Lifestyle EditorMy Odyssey at the Original 
Student Center
by Sam Velazquez //  Editor-in-ChiefKen Ludwig’s Robin Hood!
THEATRE
Acclaimed playwright and Tony Award winner Ken 
Ludwig sauntered back onstage this summer with a witty 
and daring adaptation of the age-old “Robin Hood. ” Created and choreographed with the San Diego Old Globe’s cozy Sheryl and Harvey White Theatre in mind, 
this handsome production was both delightful and daring 
— a veritable mix of classical showmanship and modern artifice. With a fresh take on an otherwise stale story, “Ken Ludwig’s Robin Hood!” makes the clever choice to not take itself seriously at all. It may not reach the comedic heights of “Robin Hood: Men in Tights, ” but 1993 was a special year for our green-clad outlaw. Regardless, Ludwig’s play hits all the right notes.
—   Alicia Lepler
A&E Editor
Dum Surfer
MUSIC
“Dum Surfer” delivers a grimier, more dim version 
of King Krule than his listeners were treated to on his 
debut LP , “6 Feet Beneath the Moon, ” four years ago. The track begins and the listener is greeted by a chorus of spooky moans and a dreary bass line smothered in 
reverb.  From here the intensity of the song picks up and 
Archy Marshall’s booming vocals kick in, bringing with them a haunting ensemble of brass instruments. After a cacophonous trumpet introduction, the track comes to a head with a melancholy guitar solo, which washes over the listener as the song fades out. King Krule sets the stage for an excellent sophomore LP with this stellar single.
—  Nolan Willett
Contributing Writer
Twin Peaks: The Return
TELEVISION
The cult classic show “Twin Peaks” returned on Showtime 
this summer, appeasing viewers of the ‘90s mystery drama 
and creating a new generation of fans. Directed by David 
Lynch, the series began with the brutal murder of Laura Palmer, a resident of Twin Peaks, Washington. The plot then expanded to incorporate other mysteries and dark forces occupying the unsuspecting town. This original series ended with an ominous cliffhanger, along with the line, “I’ll see you again in 25 years, ” allowing for the 2017 revival. While this new season does not entirely take place in Twin Peaks, the basic plotline is continued and many 
of the original characters return, including Agent Cooper 
(Kyle MacLachlan), Hawk (Michael Horse), Andy (Harry Goaz) and the infamous Log Lady, Margaret (Catherine Coulson). This is the only way the show remains consistent, however, as it is far more edgy than the past seasons. Special effects, symbolism and audio effects are utilized in a far more brazen manner to amplify the show’s classic eclectic vibe. The new season therefore focuses more on undertaking aesthetic intensity rather than plot 
resolution, leaving viewers with more questions than 
before. Nevertheless, it is still a must-watch for any David Lynch and “Twin Peaks” fan.
 
— Daisy Scott
Staff WriterLook What You Made Me Do
MUSIC
When Taylor Swift deleted everything from her social 
media, everyone knew something was up. Sure enough, 
three years after her last album was released, Swift has returned from her hiatus with a new single that’s a far cry from her squeaky clean, goody-two-shoes image. We’ve 
seen Swift rebrand herself and her music in the past few 
years and, for the most part, her transition from country to pop has been relatively successful. So it’s unfortunate, really, that “Look What Y ou Made Me Do” is lyrically uninspired, irritatingly repetitive, and annoyingly reminiscent of the hook from “I’m Too Sexy. ” If Swift is trying to take control of her reputation as a snake, this is a weak attempt.
Sorry, the old Taylor can’t come to the phone right now. 
Why? Oh, because she was murdered by the new Taylor’s 
petty revenge song that negates any shred of musical 
artistry she might have displayed.
 
—   Ell ysa Lim 
Senior Staff Writer
 G.L.O.W.
TELEVISION
Set in ‘80s Los Angeles, “GLOW” is based on the 
true story of the formation of the Gorgeous Ladies of 
Wrestling. Ruth (Allison Brie), an earnest and desperate out-of-work actress, finds herself cast in a low-budget female wrestling show alongside her estranged best friend 
Debbie (Betty Gilpin). Under the direction of washed-
up B-movie director Sam Silvia (Marc Maron), the 12 women must assume over-the-top wrestling personas. As they develop their respective caricatures, the women embrace the grittiness of their alter-egos and discover unexpected empowerment and athleticism. Much like kale and acai, feminism has become a fad — a trendy pop-culture commodity to be bought and sold. Smart, honest, and funny, “GLOW” is a breath of fresh air in this new 
corporate landscape dominated by exploitative feminism 
as a magnet for viewership. It has an undeniable ring of authenticity, yielding both humor and heart in its candid portrayal of an ensemble of female oddballs. 
—  Ma y a Kleiman
Staff Writer
Bojack Horseman
TELEVISION
To an unassuming viewer, “Bojack Horseman” looks like 
a tired adult cartoon, complete with crude jokes and dumb 
characters — more mindless entertainment than anything. But behind the absurdist humor and surreal alternate universe the show takes place in, “Bojack Horseman” is 
a surprisingly deep, introspective comedy with complex 
stories and even more complex characters. The original Netflix cartoon follows Bojack Horseman, a washed-up ’90s sitcom actor, and his quest to find a deeper meaning to his glamorous but otherwise bleak life. Season Four is a departure from form, focusing on Bojack’s dysfunctional family history and its subsequent trickle-down effect on his current relationships. It doesn’t shy away from difficult topics yet still manages to deliver extremely clever humor 
while remaining socially and politically relevant. This new season in particular will take you on a wild emotional 
rollercoaster, but man, is it worth it.
—  Ell ysa Lim 
Senior Staff WriterGame of Thrones
TELEVISION
After delays, rumors, and numerous talk-show 
discussions, “Game of Thrones” returned to HBO in 
July. It did not disappoint. The computer-generated 
imaging was costlier, the furs furrier, and the 
dragons more terrifying. Oh, and Dany finally made landfall in Westeros to graciously continue a worldwide barbeque campaign. Ill-received players 
like the Dornish got their collective butt handed 
to them, and Theon’s terrifyingly ‘70s-rocker uncle made an amusing appearance. On an upswing, Stark siblings Sansa and Arya managed to overturn a good decade of accumulated trauma and younger brother 
Bran became an omnipotent tree god. Life may 
change, but “Game of Thrones” remains the same; thank goodness for that!
—   Alicia Lepler
A&E EditorKingsman 2
CINEMA
“Kingsman” returns for a mind-numbing yet highly 
entertaining sequel, brimming with more over-the-top spy 
parody. This time, our favorite tailor shop employees team up with members of the Statesman to fight the nefarious Golden Circle — a multinational criminal organization 
based in a diner. If you enjoy seeing daily objects like 
umbrellas, briefcases, and cologne being weaponized, this is the film for you. If you like watching cowboys and British gentlemen engage in displays of acrobatic combat worthy of Olympic gold, this is also the film for you. There’s not much there in terms of storytelling or logic, but it sure is fun.
—   Derek Deng
Senior Staff Writer
Wind River
CINEMA
Director Taylor Sheridan closes his cinematic trilogy 
(consisting of “Hell or Highwater” and “Sicario”) with an 
odd choice — a winter western starring Hawkeye and Scarlet Witch. James Brendan and Elizabeth Olsen star as a heartbroken father and a fresh FBI agent searching for the 
murderer of a young girl in the barren wastes of the Wind 
River Indian Reservation. In a land far beyond the reach of sprawling metropolises, justice is as reliable as the few good people willing to pull the trigger. For hunter James Cory and special agent Jane Banner, the truth is not found by simply gathering the evidence and browsing a criminal database. Tracking the truth leads them on a harrowing journey across the snowcrest mountains of Wyoming where they struggle against snowstorms and the harsh 
reality of life on the edge of civilization.
—  DEREK DE Leon
Staff Writer
Logan Lucky
CINEMA
What happens when you cross “Ocean’s Eleven” with 
“Fargo, ” hillbillies, and NASCAR? Steven Soderbergh’s 
“Logan Lucky” explores the oft-shunned setting of the Deep South and charmingly exploits redneck stereotypes for a witty caper of absurd proportions. The unlucky 
Logan brothers scheme to steal a trove of gambling returns 
from Charlotte Motor Speedway in a spiteful act against 
fate and NASCAR. With the help of their dysfunctional 
crew (including an unexpectedly goofy Daniel Craig) 
and a little chance, the brothers have an opportunity to finally break their infamous family curse. Standing in their way are the busiest crowds possible at the Coca-Cola 600, an unscrupulous prison warden, reversible pneumatic tubes, prosthetic-limb-sucking vacuums, and basic chemistry. Something that balances just the right amount of Southern-fried comedy with coincidence and cunning is as commonplace as betting on the winning car 
at the speedway.
—  DEREK DE Leon
Staff Writer10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
Best of the 
Summer 2k17
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTSTime Time Time
MUSIC
After a two-year remove following the release of her first single, Samantha Urbani released an 
extended play that is nothing short of stellar. Urbani takes the brevity innate to EPs to her, and 
ultimately our, benefit by refusing to let a note go astray. Accusing this of being derivative of ‘80s R&B is damn-near malicious because this is all-too modern, and too authentic to her inclinations to be put down as just another bastard child of Janet Jackson. With her final track “Time Time 
Time, ” Urbani encapsulates the epitome of ‘80s heart and excises the excess — handling the reins 
of R&B with a finesse few possess. It begins with bells more reminiscent of a Gregorian chant than a dejected dance floor ditty before being upended by the Seinfeldian duo of saxophone and bass in swelling percussive jolts. It’s time time time for Samantha Urbani to shine.
—   Sam Velazquez
Editor-in-ChiefIt
CINEMA
It’s the most talked-about reboot 
of the year and it came early for 
Halloween. Stephen King’s “It” stars Bill Skarsgard as Pennywise the Clown alongside an ensemble 
of spectacular child actors. These 
skilled kids, known in-story as the “Loser’s Club, ” go against all odds to stop this killer clown once and for all. As Pennywise morphs into the children’s biggest fears in order to kill them, they soon learn their courage is what truly intimidates him. Being a horror movie, “It” definitely features 
its fair share of jump scares, but the 
Loser’s Club invites witty humor that provides comic relief and ease before the next scare. It’s creepy, hilarious, and definitely bloody. It’s like “Stranger Things” on steroids!
 
—   Melissa Palafox
Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
FALL 2017
M: 9am-12pm
Tu: 1pm-5pm
W: 11:30am-2pm
Th: 9am-5pm
F: 11:30am-4pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
tritonfoodpantryHOURSFIND OUT AT THE
FUNDING GUIDE SEMINARS
MANDATORY FOR STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS WISHING TO
APPLY FOR AS PROGRAMMING FUNDSHOW DO I FUND MY
STUDENT ORG?
Andrew Thai, Financial Controller
asvpfinance@ucsd.edu • (858) 534-6098
Helen Cao, Senior Associate Vice President of Student Organizationsavpstudentorgs@ucsd.edu • (858) 246-0341Mon 10/2 • ERC Room • 2pm-4pm
Tues 10/3 • Bear Room • 2pm-4pm 
as.ucsd.edu
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTS
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF DESIGN BOLTSRufus Wainwright
LIVE PERFORMANCE
With roots in opera, pop, and folk, Rufus Wainwright is 
something of a musical renaissance man. For his “Northern 
Stars” tour, Wainwright dedicated the evening to Canadian musical icons. Sporting a shimmering sequined shirt, he opened with a stunningly tender, slowed-down interpretation of Joni 
Mitchell’s “ A Case of Y ou” before launching into his Celine 
Dion repertoire.  Wainwright delivered soulful homages to Neil Y oung, Joni Mitchell, and Leonard Cohen. Tucked in among these tributes was a spirited rendition of the Canadian classic, “Safety Dance, ” by Men Without Hats, to the glee of Wainwright’s enthusiastic and nostalgic audience. Wainwright closed with a series of transfixing renditions of Leonard Cohen tunes including “Suzanne” and “Hallelujah. ” He received a standing ovation from an audience moved by the indelible spirit of a man 
whose musical vocabulary and effortless showmanship are as 
impressive as his wardrobe. 
—   Ma y a Kleiman
Staff WriterBodak Yellow
MUSIC
Were you really living up your 
summer if you didn’t bump to “Bodak Y ellow” at the club? The first solo female rapper to reach #1 on the Billboard Charts since 1998, 
Cardi B has become a household 
name in the span of three months and given girls confidence to stand up for themselves. As a “Love & Hip Hop: New York” cast-member and former social-media star, Cardi B has proven herself a triple-threat and ready to join the throne of fellow rapper queens. 
“ And I’m quick, cut a n---- off so 
don’t get comfortable, ” she raps a verse that would soon become any significant other’s threat to your argument. Her new single is petty and everything made as a bad b---- anthem, so definitely give it a listen at your next frat party.
—   Melissa Palafox
Staff WriterYounger Now
MUSIC
Say what you want about Miley Cyrus or her eerie “Dead 
Petz” phase, her 2017 comeback is enticing and reminiscent of her old country roots. “Y ounger Now” is the second single of her upcoming album of the same name. Similar to first single “Malibu, ” this track evokes a new folky sound, weed and partying distinctly 
absent from the lyrics. It explores her personal growth, and 
uses lyrics like, “no one stays the same” and “change is a thing you can count on. ” Recently stating she was done with her previous party-heavy lifestyle, Miley is determined to explore more of her newfound persona and “Y ounger Now” is a great foundation for her upcoming comeback album.
—   Melissa Palafox
Staff WriterKill List
THEATRE
The ultimate banality of death lingers over the entirety of playwright 
Mat Smart’s “Kill List” and yet suffuses the production itself with life. These seeming contradictions, some mortal and some not, are nothing but second nature to a play that begins with a hostage yuppie pissing himself. This fun, if grim, affair takes the trivialities and pettiness of living — arguments over 
chips, chip dust, and quesaritos among them — to showcase the frailties and 
faults of professionalism in all spheres. Professional assassins are people, too. The enterprising mother-daughter combo at the heart of this play, Gloria (Candy Buckley) and Sheila (Amanda Quaid), feed the audience a tidal wave of irreverence for one another before succumbing to their worst tendencies. It’s one thing to be alive; it’s another to be satisfied.
—   Sam velazquez
Editor-in-Chief
A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 12
www.SiebelScholars.comSiebel Scholars Class of 2018
The Siebel Scholars program was founded in 2000 to recognize the most talented 
graduate students in business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science. Each 
year, over 90 outstanding graduate students are selected as Siebel Scholars based on academic 
excellence and leadership and join an active, lifelong community among an ever-growing group 
of leaders. We are pleased to recognize this year’s Siebel Scholars.
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Sarah Friedrich
Daniel LewisWorawan (Boombim) Limpitikul Alyssa KosmidesRandall Meyer
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Reginald Avery
Santiago Correa- Echavarria
Jaidep Dudani
Deena RennerfeldtTahoura SamadSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Benjamin Kotopka
Steven LeungMaya NagasawaSung Jin ParkWen Torng
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Tammy Hsu
Jasmine Hughes
Elisabet Rosas
Olivia ScheidelerZhi Wei TayUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO 
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Michael Gibbons
Xuanyi MaTri NguyenTroy SandbergJessica Ungerleider
MIT 
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Shuvo Banerjee
Avery BeachBarry BrudnyFaye ChengRohit Ramchandani
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
KELLOGG SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Nadim Choudhury
Michael DuffyMarci Engel Annie FurrJohn NgSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Animesh Agrawal
Charles BarrettJohn MarzulliSamanthe Tiver BelangerSarah ZampardoUNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
BOOTH SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Darrick Chan
Kathleen DavisMonica KalwaniIgor ShkilkoYihan Tan
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Karan Goel 
Nika Haghtalab Jeffery Helt Kirthevasan Kandasamy Danish Pruthi
HARVARD JOHN A. PAULSON SCHOOL 
OF ENGINEERING & APPLIED SCIENCES
Hongyao Ma 
Andrew MillerJean Pouget-AbadieBrandon ReagenSamuel Wiseman
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Sayed Abulnaga 
Neerja AggarwalEric BersinGladynel Saavedra PenaYu WangPRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  APPLIED SCIENCE
Jonathan Balkind
Ryan Beckett Jieming MaoClaudia Roberts Amy Tai
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Mila Schultz
Howard Anthony Small Jr.Crystal TjoaBorui WangCatherine Wong
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION SCIENCE  AND TECHNOLOGY
Kaiwei Li 
Qiao QianChenming WuHan Zhang Jiacheng  ZhangUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
YuXuan Liu 
Michael Zhang
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Jacob Bailey
Milica Hadzi-TanovicUnnat JainSujay KhandekarJayasi Mehar
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Sean Weerakkody
ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE GRADUATE SCHOOL
Arthur Marronnier
MIT SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Marco Miotti
POLITECNICO DI TORINO DOCTORAL SCHOOL
Gianluca SeralePRINCETON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  APPLIED SCIENCE
Ross Kerner
STANFORD UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF EARTH, ENERGY  & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
William Gent
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY LABORATORY OF LOW CARBON ENERGY
Zhifang Yang
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Ming JinUNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Varun Badrinath Krishna
THE UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Kasidit ToprasertpongBIOENGINEERING
BUSINESS
COMPUTER SCIENCE
ENERGY SCIENCECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
10/6 - Streetside Cinema • 10/7 - Haunted Hoedown
EVENTS START AT 8pm
TRITON FESTTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 2 - OCT 82017
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN10.6 & 10.7 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
SCHMOOZE @ AEPETTING ZOO - 
SUN GOD LAWN
Conclude the High Holiday season with an epic 
finale: services led by Rabbi David Singer and a break-fast meal that will leave your mouth watering even when the fast ends. Contact: sophie@hillelsd.org
4:30pm
UCSD WOMEN’S SOCCER VS. CAL 
STATE SAN MARCOS - TRITON 
SOCCER STADIUM
Come support your UCSD Women's Soccer team 
as they take on Cal State San Marcos! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
5pm
QT FEST - LGBT RESOURCE CENTER
Join us for our LGBTQIA+ Community Fall Welcome! Check out the LGBTRC for tours, games, and a resource fair. Contact: 
mpgomez@ucsd.edu
5pm
DECORATE YOUR DORM: DIY 
DECORATIVE BANNERS - THE LOFT
Need decorations for your dorm but can't find the 
right one? Do you love arts and crafts!?! Come to the Loft for University Centers first DIY event of the year! All materials will be provided. FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID CardALL WEEK - 10am
THE GET INVOLVED STUDENT  
ORGANIZATIONS FAIR - LIBRARY WALK
The Get Involved Fair occurs during Welcome Week 
and Week One and highlights a variety of ways to get involved in student organizations. More than 400 student organizations will be on Library Walk during those two weeks, showcasing what they have to offer. Come explore and learn how you can get involved in a student organization! Contact: darlene@ucsd.edu
1pm
AS FUNDING GUIDE SEMINARS -  
PRICE CENTER
Come learn how your student organization can 
apply for AS funding and the important steps you have to take to make it fast and efficient! Highly encouraged for principal members.
6:30pm
BLABBERMOUTH - THE LOFT
Have a song or story to share? Blabbermouth is an open mic night held at The Loft, giving writers of prose, poetry, and fiction, as well as musicians and 
performers a place to share their art. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
INTERNATIONAL MIXER - GREAT 
HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE, ERC
Come mix and mingle with students from around 
the globe, study abroad returnees, students from other colleges, and more! All are welcome and it is completely FREE! Hosted by UC San Diego International House, UCSD Outreach Coordinators, International Students & Programs Office, and International Faculty & Scholars Office. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu11:30am
STARTUPS & PIZZA: MARKET AND 
PRODUCT RESEARCH - FUNG AUDITORIUM - BIONENGINEERING 
HALL
UC San Diego Office of Innovation and 
Commercialization is partnering with Dentons 
and Tiber Creek on a seminar series on what you 
need to know about forming a startup company. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
12:30pm
FIRST STEPS TO STUDYING ABROAD 
- UCSD STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Join a professional advisor to learn the basics to 
studying abroad and what you need to do to prepare for your study abroad adventure. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
6pm
MULTICULTURAL GREEK COUNCIL 
INFO NIGHT - PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Come learn about fraternities and sororities 
within the Multicultural Greek Council! Contact: mgcrecruitment@mail.ucsd.edu
4pm
ACCB PRESENTS: FIND YOUR 
ROOMMATE - THE LOFT
Looking for a roommate for next year? Have no 
fear, we are here! Join us for a roommate mixer with FREE food and drinks! Make sure to register HERE so we can help you find your perfect roommate! Register HERE: http://bit.ly/UCSDRoommateMixer FREE 4-6PM Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/254576951678074/
8am
TRITON CLASSIC - CROSS COUNTRY 
- TRITON TRACK AND FIELD 
STADIUM
Come support your UCSD Cross Country team! 
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
8pm
TRITON FEST - HAUNTED 
HOEDOWN - MUIR REC GYM & OLD 
STUDENT CENTER
Zombies have overrun the Haunted Hoedown! 
Brave through a zombie-infested haunted house, get your line dance on, feast on sweet-tangy BBQ and get your own zombiefied makeover by our on-site makeup artists. It's never too early for Halloween! Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu\10am
THE GET INVOLVED STUDENT  
ORGANIZATIONS FAIR - LIBRARY 
WALK
The Get Involved Fair occurs during Welcome 
Week and Week One and highlights a variety of ways to get involved in student organizations. More than 400 student organizations will be on Library Walk during those two weeks, showcasing what they have to offer. Come explore and learn how you can get involved in a student organization! Contact: darlene@ucsd.edu
5pm
FIRST STEPS TO STUDYING 
ABROAD - UCSD STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Join a professional advisor to learn the basics to 
studying abroad and what you need to do to prepare for your study abroad adventure. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
7pm
OUT OF STATE STUDENT MIXER - 
MANDEVILLE EAST ROOM
Coming to UCSD from out of state? You're not 
the only one! Mix and mingle with other out of state students while learning how to take on UCSD like a BOSS (also known as the Board of Out of State Students). Contact: grfuller@ucsd.edu4:30pm
UCSD MEN’S SOCCER VS. SF STATE - 
TRITON SOCCER STADIUM
Come support your UCSD Men's Soccer team as 
they take on SF State! Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6pm
WELCOME BACK SHABBAT - SUN 
GOD LAWN
After your first week on campus, come together 
for a delicious, homey Shabbat dinner in the Sukkah on the iconic Sun God Lawn. We're taking over the center of campus for a free Shabbat meal open to everyone. Contact: sophie@hillelsd.org
7pm
UCSD WOMEN'S SOCCER VS. SF 
STATE - TRITON SOCCER STADIUM
Come support your UCSD Women's Soccer team 
as they take on SF State!
8pm
TRITON FEST - ASCE PRESENTS: 
STREETSIDE CINEMA - WARREN MALL
Feel like a kid again at this nostalgia-themed 
Streetside Cinema! Get a polaroid photo or do your own tye-dye shirt while watching Pixar's Monster's University and Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales. Contact: faantonio@ucsd.eduTUE10.3
THU10.5SAT10.7MON 10.2
FRI10.6WED10.4
11am
ORIGINS CHURCH - VILLAGE WEST 
BUILDING #2
Origins Church is our weekly Sunday gathering. It 
feels like a family gathering where we come to experience the goodness of God, the gospel of Jesus, and the supernatural love and power of God. No matter what your spiritual journey is, you are welcome. We meet Sundays 11am at Village West Building #2 (ERC). Each week looks different as we gather around Gods presence. We gather to encounter God, be empowered, and be sent back into the world equipped with all we need in Him We know visiting for the first time can be an overwhelming experience, but having an idea of what to expect can certainly help. This gathering is open to anyone. We look forward to meeting you! Contact: hsc007@ucsd.eduSUN10.8visit tritonfest.ucsd.edu for event detailsFRI & SAT
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classiﬁeds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Church seats
5. Eye part9. Seasons
14. Space
15. Space gp.
16. Forest path17. Gathered19. Smell
20. Approximate
21. Adjusted beforehand
22. Passport endorsement23. Has supper24. Shoe spike
27. Pesters
29. Perfect scores
33. Sweetie34. FBI employee (abbr.)35. Malevolent
36. Levin and Gershwin
38. Norwegian
40. Copenhagen native41. Bottle part42. One (Sp.)43. Billy ____ Williams44. Poker bet45. Nevada town47. Wave top49. Defeat51. Colorless53. Plot56. Most distant60. Terre ____, Indiana61. Zoo62. Kidney, e.g.63. Lincoln and Vigoda64. Existence65. Fruit skins66. Corn spikes67. Rents outDOWN
 1. Walk nervously2. Greek god of love3. Bruise4. Mouth liquid5. Peruvian natives6. Wicker material7. “____ dead people!” (2 wds.)8. Downcast9. Begin10. Nabbed11. Thailand’s neighbor12. Wristwatch info13. Narrow board18. Give forth21. Scrapbook need23. Nest contents24. Fine porcelain25. Actress Sophia ____26. Make into law28. Baseball great Hank ____30. Elude31. Dressed to the ____32. Ice pellets37. Of one’s bones38. Hospital worker39. Wallet stuffers46. First game47. Drain problem48. Narrate again50. Prophetic signs52. Accumulate53. Boutique54. Concern55. Immense56. Songstress ____ McEntire57. Famed canal58. Filter59. Links gadgets61. Actress ____ WestHOUSING
La Jolla Crossroads - $1875-$3375. 9085 
Judicial Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. You’ll be minutes from the beach, UCSD, major employers, shopping, movie theaters and fine dining! Our stylish studio, one, two and three bedroom apartment homes feature washers and dryers, modern appliances, fireplaces, roman tubs and cathedral ceil-ings. La Jolla Crossroads offers amenities that are truly one of a kind pools, spas, a tech lounge, movie theater, modern club -
house with kitchen. You can work out in our fitness facility and then hang out in our picnic areas with BBQ’s. We offer ser -
vices to our residents including a shuttle, package acceptance, concierge services, 24-hour courtesy services and so much more....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information.
Villa Mesa Apartments - $1375-$1550. 7366 
Mesa College Drive, San Diego, CA 92111. Conveniently located just minutes from major freeways, shopping, Mesa College and entertainment our beautifully land-scaped setting provides the perfect retreat for your active lifestyle. Choose one of our two bedroom spacious floor plans that have been thoughtfully designed with careful attention to detail. Each apartment home offers a fully equipped kitchen, air conditioning and so much more. Take advantage of our wonderful recreational amenities that includes a sparkling pool and more...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information.
The Plaza Apartments - $1150-$1550. 6150 
El Cajon Blvd, San Diego, CA 92115. Plaza Apartments offer an attractive and contem-porary setting with several distinctive floor plans that include 1 and 2 bedrooms, some poolside. Some of the amenities you will enjoy are on-site and 24 hour emergency maintenance, a large refreshing pool, a relaxing spa, a BBQ area with beautiful pool furniture, reserved parking, balconies, trash chutes, generous sized closets and storage space, air conditioning, a study room and FREE* shuttle to and from SDSU. Plaza Apartments is also very close to the bus line, restaurants, and more! Stop in today for your personal tour. We can’t wait to make Plaza Apartments your new home. *A pass is required to utilize the shuttle. The pass is a $13 minimum annual pass fee. Please contact leasing personnel for further information. Please feel free to ask for assistance with respect to any disability related needs. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
29” Beach Cruiser in New Condition - $90. Don’t buy a beach cruiser until you check 
this one out. My friend is in the military and 
has me selling it for him but I forgot to ask what brand it is and can’t contact him now. 
No labels but original black paint. Spray paint black. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mongoose Bike - $60. I am selling a 
Mongoose bike in fantastic condition for 
$60. The seat has no tears, the brakes work 
fine, the chain is good, the front tire needs 
air. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
GIANT OCR1 WOMAN’S ROAD BIKE - $320. GIANT OCR1 WOMANS ROAD BIKE, ALUXX 
ALUMINUM FRAME, AND CARBON. 6000 
SERIES SPEED: S (44cm), 27: SPEED TIRES: 
700C, SHIFTER: SHIMANO ULTEGRA, REAR 
DERAILLEUR: SHOMANO ULTEGRA, FRONT 
DERAILLEUR: SHIMANO 105. ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
AUTO
Used 2001 Toyota Corolla 4D Sedan - 
Features: Bucket Seats, Cloth Seat Trim, 
Front Center Arm rest w/Storage, Rear cup-
holders, Speed-sensing steering, Rear anti-
roll bar, Powered steering, Passenger vanity mirror, Passenger door bin, Fully auto-on 
headlamps, Front anti-roll bar, Four wheel independent suspension, Dual front impact 
airbags, Driver vanity mirror, Driver door 
bin, Bumpers: body-color, Am/Fm radio, 
Front Cupholders, Front Bucket Seats, 4 Speakers. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
New 2017 Toyota Prius Two - $26,255. 
Features: Air Bags, CD Player, Climate 
Control, Cruise Control, Keyless Entry, 
Power Door Locks, Power Mirrors, Power Steering, Power Windows, Trip Computer. 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2003 BMW 3-Series 325i Sedan SEDAN 4-DR 
- ONLY 65K MILES!!!!!! Just traded! Sweet 
ride!!!. We won’t be undersold. Almost 
new. They don’t come much cleaner than 
this!Amazingly well maintained. A True 
single owner Car!!!!!!!!!!!! ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Bouncing back from a defeat at the 
hands of Cal State San Bernardino, 
the UC San Diego women’s volleyball team swept Cal Poly Pomona. With the win over Cal Poly Pomona, the Tritons 
improve to 4–1 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
UCSD had 41 kills, 15 errors, 
and 126 total attempts, putting the 
Tritons at a .206 attack percentage. 
Senior outside hitter Amanda Colla and junior middle blocker Micah 
Hammond led the team in kills with 11 
and 10, respectively. Colla also finished 
the game with a game-high 25 digs. 
Sophomore setter Marie Paris set up 
her team with a total of 31 assists. 
Defensively, the Tritons were led 
by sophomore middle blocker Jessica 
Rieble who tallied six blocks. Paris also 
contributed to the defensive e ffort with 
five blocks of her own. 
The first set was a grueling back-
and-forth battle, and neither team 
could secure a solid lead in the set. The Broncos had a chance to seal the 
set at 24–21, however, two great blocks 
by Rieble and a kill by Colla saved set 
points. The Tritons remained solid, and 
two errors by the Broncos gave UCSD the set. 
Starting o ff in a similar fashion to the first set, the second set was a 
close fight between the two teams. Up 
until the score reached 12–11, neither 
team had gone on an extended run to 
pull ahead. At this point in the game, 
the Tritons shored up their defense and that made all the di fference. The 
Broncos began to make error a fter 
error, leading to a 17–13 Triton lead. 
Cal Poly Pomona scored one more point the rest of the set, unable to 
breach the Triton defense. UCSD won the second set 25–14. 
Cal Poly Pomona started the third 
set with a head of steam, grabbing an early 8–3 lead. However, no lead was 
large enough to sti fle the Triton o ffense 
which was firing on all gears. UCSD 
relentlessly attacked the Broncos and kept the set close. The set came 
down to a 24–24 tie when sophomore outside hitter Jessyca Beksa earned a 
kill assisted by Paris, giving the Tritons a 25–24 lead. Following Beksa’s kill, the 
Broncos made an attack error and gave the Tritons the match. 
Next, the Tritons will look to face 
Cal State Los Angeles on Tuesday, Oct. 
3 at 7 p.m. The match will be held at 
RIMAC. 
In a rematch of last year’s West 
Regional Final showdown, UC San 
Diego needed an unlikely hero in 
the form of true freshman forward 
Jonathan Sabouri who scored two 
goals, including the deciding one 
in overtime, to top No. 17 Cal Poly 
Pomona. The win lifts the Tritons to 
second in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association at 5–1–3 overall 
and 3–1–1 in the CCAA, while Cal 
Poly Pomona dropped to 7–3 overall 
and 3–2 in the CCAA.
In a tense first half of a game that 
saw Cal Poly Pomona outshoot the 
Tritons by 4–3, the only real goal-
scoring opportunity came when Cal 
Poly Pomona senior midfielder Sergi 
Monso got through the defense but 
failed to convert against freshman 
goalkeeper Pedro Enciso.
In the early minutes of the second 
half, the Tritons put some pressure on the Broncos’ defense. At the 49th minute, a through ball to redshirt senior forward Malek Bashti on which he was tripped led to a penalty 
call for the Tritons. Bashti, who took 
the penalty, failed to convert it, facing 
senior goalkeeper Jason Trejos of the 
Broncos. Bashti continued to run 
rampant, putting Trejos in difficulty 
on a header and a shot from the 
area, without any success. Cal Poly 
Pomona, who was under pressure in the first 15 minutes of the second half, 
broke through at the 62nd minute when Monso, the leading scorer 
of the CCAA with 13 goals, added 
another goal to his resume on a free-
kick right outside of the box that beat 
Enciso on his left.
Despite the setback, the Tritons 
continued to push and broke through 
at the 69th minute when a shot from 
redshirt senior midfielder Steven 
Ortiz was originally saved, but 
Sabouri was lurking to kick the ball in 
for his first ever goal as a Triton. Both 
teams were neutralized until the 90th 
minute, which announced sudden 
The No. 13 UC San Diego Tritons 
took on No. 19 Loyola Marymount 
University Wednesday night in their 
home opener at Canyonview Aquatic Center. Following a tough weekend in 
the Mountain Paci fic Sports Federation 
Invitational (1–3) last weekend and looking to improve their 4–10 overall 
record, UCSD wasted no time in its 
victory. With 1,500 fans in attendance 
on a brisk night in La Jolla, the Tritons 
prevailed in a 15–5 win over the Lions.
After beating LMU 8–5 at the 
MPSF Invitational in Los Angeles, 
UCSD piled onto its all-time series 
domination, increasing its lead to 
58–25. 
Senior hole set Arman Momdzhyan, 
put the Tritons on the board early, scoring on a pass from sophomore 
utility player Skyler Munatones 45 
seconds into the first quarter. The Lions 
responded quickly on a power play but it was not long before UCSD began to 
pull away. Momdzhyan would go on to 
complete a hat trick alongside junior utility Kevin Asplund, the two alone 
contributing a combined six goals and 
three steals for the Tritons. 
Leading 5–2 a fter the first eight 
minutes, UCSD refused to settle. 
Munatones executed on a penalty shot 
with 3:22 remaining in the half for the first of his two goals, later on recording 
five assists and two steals as well. Utility 
Alessandro V alania also scored on a skip shot o ff a counter attack to send 
the Tritons into the locker room with 
an 8–3 cushion at hal ftime. 
UCSD came out scoring seven 
more goals a fter the break, successfully 
capitalizing on all four power play 
opportunities. Momdzhyan nailed the 
top right corner to finalize his three-
goal night about a minute into the third quarter. 
On top of their o ffense 
performance, the Tritons also put on 
a show defensively. Freshman attacker, Connor Turnbow-Lindenstadt 
collected a team-high of four steals. 
Junior goalie Sam Thompson snagged 
three steals of his own beyond his 12 saves. And seven other Tritons tallied 
at least one steal to ensure the defeat. 
Ahead by seven heading into the 
fourth, Turnbow-Lindenstadt padded 
the lead with his second goal of the night. With five minutes to play and a 
promising score of 14–4, UCSD was in the driver’s seat. The Tritons continued 
their clean defense and crisp passing until the final buzzer sounded. The 
Lions were given chances early but could not hold o ff the strong Triton 
offense.
UCSD will face LMU once again 
next Friday, Oct. 6 in Los Angeles 
with hopes of extending their perfect 
2–0 record in Western W ater Polo 
Association play.
BY madeline lewis
contributing WRITER
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd,eduBY richard lu
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
richard lu  ril014@ucsd,edu
death overtime. 
The Tritons, who are 9–1 against 
the Broncos in their last ten meetings 
had to feel confident coming into 
overtime, with the support of the 
home crowd and the constant 
pressure they exerted on the Broncos 
defense, as highlighted by an 6–0 
advantage in corner kicks. It took 
UCSD only four minutes to score the winner. In the 94th minute, the 
Tritons obtained a free kick on the left  of the box. Redshirt junior right back 
Jeff Powers led by sophomore center 
back Jonathan Stoop, who headed it 
back down to the left, to a waiting 
Sabouri whose powerful right-foot 
volley was too much to handle for a 
diving Trejos. 
The Tritons are getting used to 
come-from-behind victories, having 
won nine games 2–1 a fter trailing 1–0 
since the beginning of last season, 
and UCSD is undefeated in overtime games since 2014. 
After their Sunday a fternoon 
game, the Tritons continue their 
season-long, four-game homestand 
against Cal State San Marcos on 
Wednesday Oct. 4, at 7 p.m. and 
against San Francisco State on Friday 
Oct. 6, at 4.30 p.m.UCSD Downs Cal State 
San Bernardino in Overtime Thriller
Freshman forward Jonathan Sabouri scored the deciding goal.
BY MARCUS THUILLIER
Managing Editor
MARCUS THUILLIER  MTHUILLI@ucsd,edu
Tritons Win Big in Back to School 
Opener Against No. 19 LMU 
UC San Diego improves to a perfect 2-0 in WWPA play in front of large home crowd.
Tritons Triumph Over Broncos, a 
3–0 Saturday Sweep
UC San Diego bounces back and improves to 4-1 in CCAA play.
men's water polowomen's volleyball
men's Soccer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 2, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
If your DACA permit expires between 
September 5, 2017 and March 5th, 2018, you must apply for a renewal by October 5th, 2017 . Limited grants are 
available to cover the $495 renewal cost. Apply now.
http://ucal.us/undocMore info at:
After a four-day break, the 
seventh-ranked UC San 
Diego women’s soccer team 
headed fresh into its clash against 
Cal Poly Pomona, the only other undefeated team in conference play besides the Tritons. In the end, only 
a goal separated the two sides as the 
Tritons scraped away with a 1–0 victory on Friday evening.
Since both teams had trouble scoring, the game remained a 0–0 stalemate entering hal ftime. The 
Tritons had the upper hand in shots taken with a five-to-two advantage 
over their opponents, and only two of the five forced a save.  
What could have been a decisive 
moment within the first two minutes 
of the match came for the Tritons as junior forward Mary Reilly was put into a one-on-one situation; however, she could not convert on the opportunity.  
The deadlock eventually broke 
open in the second half when, in the 66th minute, the Tritons earned a corner and capitalized o ff of 
senior mid fielder Jordyn McNutt’s 
wonderful header, making it 1–0 to the host. With the header, McNutt increased her season rally to four goals, putting her into a three-way tie for most goals on the team.  
Redshirt sophomore goalkeeper 
Angelica Ramos did not have much to do on the day as she was only forced into two saves, earning her sixth clean sheet of the season.  
With the win, UCSD improved 
to 8–2 overall and 5–0 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play to take the top spot on the leaderboard. After Sunday’s game against Cal 
State San Bernardino on Sunday, 
Oct. 1, the Tritons will face o ff 
against Cal State San Marcos at 
RIMAC field on Wednesday, Oct. 4. 
Kickoff is set for 4:30 p.m. 
WOMEN'S Soccer
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
Tritons 
Squeak 
Past 
Broncos
McNutt scored the 
deciding goal in the 
second half to secure 
an important victory. 
by Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF FRANCESCA HUMMLERUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
W Soccer
M Soccer
M Soccer
W Soccer10/310/410/410/610/62 PM
4:30PM
7 PM
4:30PM
7 PMCal State L.A.Cal State San MarcosCal State San MarcosSF State