VOLUME 50, ISSUE 23   MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 23, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
RESTAURANT 
WEEK
THE UCSD GUARDIAN’S 
LIFESTYLE TEAM TASTE-
TESTED SOME OF SAN 
DIEGO’S MOST REPUTABLE 
RESTAURANTS IN HONOR OF 
RESTAURANT WEEK — CHECK 
OUT WHICH ONES WILL LEAVE 
YOUR MOUTH WATERING FOR 
MORE. 
MONEY   ON   THE   MOVE
THE        FOReSEEABLE      LOSS     OF     A      TEAM
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
“WHILE SAN DIEGANS ARE 
NOW IN OUTRAGE OVER 
THE MOVE, THEY DID NOT 
COME OUT IN THE NUMBERS 
NEEDED ON VOTING DAY. AS 
HARSH AS IT MAY BE, SAN 
DIEGO ONLY HAS ITSELF TO 
BLAME FOR THE LOSS OF THE 
CITY’S TREASURE.”
- Megan Monges
Departure of the Chargers
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN  ...2
QUICK-TAKES.....................3
A&E .............................. 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
SWIM & DIVE  ................ 16lifestyle,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY Michi Sora /UCSD GUARDIAN
Scientists at the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography and 
the Western Australian Museum 
published a study in the Marine 
Biodiversity Records journal on Jan. 
13 describing the first discovery of 
the ruby seadragon in the wild.
According to Josefin Stiller, a 
doctoral candidate at the Scripps 
Institute and co-author of the study, 
the discovery was unexpected. 
Stiller’s primary research concerns 
the leafy and common seadragon 
species that live around Australia. 
The study began two years 
ago and examines how past                    
environmental changes have 
affected seadragon populations.
“For our work, we sequence the 
DNA of many individuals of the better known species, common 
and leafy seadragons,” she told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Most of our 
samples come from small tissue 
clips that we take before we release 
the animal. Some others come from 
museum samples. Such a museum 
sample, a piece of tail sent to us 
as a common seadragon, turned 
out to be genetically distinct from 
all of our samples of common and 
leafy seadragons. This was our first 
indicator for a new species. ”
Following this realization, Stiller 
and her colleague Greg Rouse, a 
professor at the Scripps Institute and 
a co-author of the study, requested 
additional information from the 
museum and found that there were 
a number of anatomical differences 
between the museum sample and 
the leafy and common seadragons. 
“We received a photo showing the bright red coloration, which is 
not found in the other two species, ” 
Stiller explained. “We were also 
loaned the specimen and found that 
there were a number of differences 
in the skeleton. ”
In order to prove that this was a 
new species of seadragon, the team 
visited southern Australia, where 
it used a small robot to capture 
footage of the fish. 
“The observations of living ruby 
seadragons in the wild showed two 
surprises, ” Stiller elaborated. “First, 
the species lacks the skin appendages 
which are so characteristic of 
seadragons. Secondly, we saw that 
the fish can curl its tail. A prehensile 
tail is something we do not see in 
the other two seadragon species. ” 
To help camouflage with their Renovations 
Begin on 
Campus Pub, 
Vendor Not 
Finalized CAMPUS
The University Centers 
Advisory Board decided on 
the new design for the space.  
The University Centers and 
University Centers Advisory Board 
began the Campus Restaurant Pub 
Revitalization Project last week 
in the Original Student Center. 
Construction has started, but 
negotiations are still ongoing with 
the undisclosed vendor that will lease 
the space. The project is expected to 
be completed by Fall Quarter 2017.
UCAB Chair Luke Wang stated 
that a compromise with the tenant 
has yet to be reached, but he is 
hoping the process will be finalized 
in the next “three to four weeks. ”
“We have been in negotiation 
with the vendor for about eight 
months and we are getting to the end 
of the negotiation, ” Wang told the 
UCSD Guardian. “If we can’t reach 
an agreement with the vendor soon, 
then we will be looking at our next 
vendor of choice. ”
Porter’s Pub was the previous 
vendor up until May 2015 when its 
lease expired and was not renewed 
after poor feedback from the UC 
San Diego student body. Student 
organizations who held events at 
Porter’s Pub reported unsatisfactory 
scheduling, being charged without 
notice for using the space and being 
misled into scenarios that did not 
comply with Center for Student 
Involvement forms. 
UCAB then sought new tenants 
through a Request for Proposals 
process, through which bids made by 
potential tenants on the right to lease 
the space are reviewed and scored. 
Only after the RFP has concluded 
will lease negotiations begin, which 
is the current status of the project.
Wang explained that management 
of the space previously occupied 
by Porter’s Pub falls under the 
jurisdiction of the University Centers 
and UCAB.
“The pub building belongs to 
University Centers, and University 
Centers is responsible for any 
renovations that occur in that 
space, ” Wang said. “The renovation 
is completely driven by University 
Centers and UCAB and happens 
independently of the vendor 
selection process, which decides on 
the specific vendor that will go into 
that space. ”
Wang added that the renovation 
process is centered on what people 
want from the restaurant and pub.
“UCAB was involved in deciding 
what components and functions 
students favor the most and balancing 
that with what we can accomplish 
with our budget, ” Wang said. “Last 
year, UCAB decided on the design of 
the space and the functionalities that 
the space should have. ”
In designing the pub space, 
UCAB is attempting to adhere to a 
list of goals and priorities published Students and Faculty Mobilize in Response to 
Inauguration
As Donald Trump placed his hand on two 
bibles, taking the oath of office to become the 
45th president of the United States, around 60 
student protesters at UC San Diego organized in the rain 
at the Silent Tree in front of Geisel Library holding signs, 
shakers, megaphones and flags. 
The march and walk out, organized by the Lumumba 
Zapata Collective, an activist group created by graduate 
students, hoped to declare that students and faculty 
would not comply with four years of President Trump, 
and that, despite his official designation, they would not 
abide by his controversial proposed policies.
Protesters marched from the Silent Tree to Peterson 
Hall, then down Library W alk and onto the crosswalk at 
Gilman Drive where they circled back and forth, trapping 
an MTS bus and stopping traffic in all four lanes. 
Chanting, “Hey, hey, ho, ho, UC fascists got to go, ” 
and “No fascist USA, no Trump, no KKK, ” protesters 
eventually caused bus lines and shuttles to avoid campus 
altogether, instead dropping students off at La Jolla 
Village Square, nearly a mile from campus. 
Police officers barricaded the area where the protesters 
were blocking the road, and escorted trapped vehicles out 
of the deadlock. 
Nearby, five people stood with UC IDs hanging from 
their necks. One of them was Dean of Student Affairs 
for Eleanor Roosevelt College Patricia Scott, who said 
they were stationed there to ensure the safety of both protesters and nonprotesters. 
“We’re not trying to stop anybody from doing 
anything, ” Scott told the UCSD Guardian. “We just want 
it to be peaceful and as respectful as possible. Often times 
in these kinds of situations emotions can cloud people’s 
judgement and thinking and things like that. ”
According to one upset protester, one of the UC 
officials tried to persuade her to let people through the 
human barricade. 
As the group — which had grown to nearly a hundred 
people — took momentary refuge in the Graduate 
Student Association lounge in the Old Student Center, 
another protester warned the throng of UC officials, 
saying they were there to “gather information. ” 
Davide Carpano, a second year Ph.D. student 
studying sociology, told the Guardian that it was not just 
Trump’s inauguration he was protesting by marching 
with the Lumumba Zapata Collective but the lack of 
representation for all. 
“Democracy has its strengths and it has its 
weaknesses, and not everyone can really have their 
voice heard because not everyone has equal access 
to resources and the platforms that they need to do 
that, ” Carpano said. “This is just a unique opportunity 
where people are really angry, and they are expressing 
that. I really hope that momentum carries forward, 
not against Trump, but against a lot of the problems 
that are inherent in our system. ”B y  Ma tthew  zamudio    NEWS EDITORUCSD
The scientists stumbled upon the ruby seadragon while sequencing DNA for other seadragons.See PROTEST , page 3
SCITECH
BY   P R O M I T A  N A N DY
SENIOR STAFF writer
See SEADRAGONS  , page 3
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianBY  M i n g - R a y  L i A o
staff writer
Researchers Discover New Species of  SeadragonTHE J20 STRIKE ON 
INAUGURATION DAY CAUGHT 
EVERYONE’S ATTENTION, BUT 
FEW PROBABLY KNOW THAT 
THE ORGANIZATION THAT 
PLANNED IT HAS ROOTS IN 
THE STUDENT PROTESTS OF 
THE 1960’s. WE INVESTIGATE 
THE LUMUMBA ZAPATA 
COLLECTIVE’S RICH LEGACY 
OF ACTIVISM AND WHAT 
MOTIVATES ITS MEMBERS TO 
PICK UP THE PIROTEST SIGNS.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
UNSTOPP ABLE
W. Basketball Wins 10 In A Row
sports,  P age  16LUMUMBA   ZAP A T A
See CONSTRUCTION , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
DRAEK & JOSH By Alex Lee
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.org
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La J ollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 b urrito & 2 Mexican soda sDine-in onlPresent this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRE S 2/6/17
The Associated Student Council 
received a resignation from both 
Vice President of External Affairs 
Lauren Roberts and Associate Vice 
President of Health and Wellness 
Jonathan Slowey last week. The 
week two meeting covered new 
additions in the attendance policy 
of AVPs and introduced language 
that defined an interview process 
for filling the positions of vice 
presidents. Stay tuned for the 
UCSD Guardian’s upcoming story 
regarding these changes.
The meeting began on a 
Wednesday evening in the PC 
forum on the fourth floor of Price 
Center. CALPIRG entered the room 
during public input and reminded 
us all that they exist and are working 
on multiple projects on the campus. 
Currently, the public interest group 
is working on powering UC San 
Diego with renewable energy and is 
leading various campaigns to stop 
fracking in the state of California, 
save the bees in La Jolla and end 
student hunger.
A.S. Council President Daniel 
Juarez announced that, due to the 
resignation of the VP of External 
Affairs, Adan Chavez will be serving 
as the Interim VP for the time 
being. She mentioned that there is 
a surprising lack of documentation 
when it comes to the process of 
finding a new VP in the event of a 
resignation. Juarez also noted that 
the AVP of Health and Wellness 
had also resigned and that a search 
committee will be formed as soon as 
possible to fill the position. 
Vice President of Campus Affairs 
Sabrina Ekdahl brought information 
to the senate from a meeting she had with the CEO of RoboCop, 
a security company that produces 
Sound Grenades. 
Sound Grenades are compact, loud 
sound deterrents used for personal 
protection. Once the pin is pulled, a 
120 dB siren is broadcasted from the 
tiny device for 30 minutes, or until 
the pin is plugged back in. According 
to RoboCop, the Sound Grenade is 
a safer alternative to pepper spray. 
Whereas with pepper spray one 
needs to be in close proximity and 
risk arming the attacker, a Sound 
Grenade is much safer and does not 
deter any bystander from intervening.                                                                                                                                     
Ekdahl noted that almost all the 
UC schools, except UC Davis and 
UC Merced, have already adopted 
the use of Sound Grenades for                               
personal protection. 
The meeting was going 
smoothly and the discussion of the 
introduction of Sound Grenades on 
campus was strangely compelling. 
This quickly changed when the 
senate shifted to a vote on language 
that was brought to the senate 
introducing the attendance policy 
rules that would mandate council 
work hours for AVPs. 
To be more precise, the language 
says, “Each associate vice president 
must commit to a minimum of five 
‘working hours’ to be completed 
in their allocated office space 
each week. The purpose of such 
hours shall be used specifically to 
complete office work, to collaborate 
on office work with other members 
of A.S. [Council] and to conduct 
any necessary meetings related 
to office business. The executive 
officer who oversees each specific 
AVP shall implement oversight 
procedures to ensure weekly hours 
are completed. No AVP may request 
an exception to this clause. This 
rule shall apply only during A.S. working weeks defined as weeks 
during the academic quarter less 
finals week. University breaks are 
not A.S. working weeks. ” 
One would think that, overall, 
this is a small piece of legislation, 
requiring only a cursory glance and 
perhaps a quick debate. Wrong. 
Discussion of these six sentences of 
policy would stretch on for 35 full 
minutes (yes, I counted). I would be 
more forgiving of this half hour had 
it not been spent so inefficiently. 
Comment after comment expressed 
similar concerns over the harshness 
of the language and many people 
opined on the lack of necessity for 
the rule. The entire senate’s time 
was wasted over debates of policy 
that should have taken place outside 
of the weekly senate meetings. 
Additionally, and perhaps more 
curiously, certain individuals would 
spend multiple paragraphs of speech 
expressing an idea that could have 
been done so with a single sentence. 
It reminds me of Orwell’s third rule 
of writing: “If it is possible to cut a 
word out, always cut it out. ” 
In boredom, I began to fantasize 
about my plans for the rest of my 
Wednesday evening. I was snapped 
back to reality when, to my delight, 
the time allotted for the discussion 
had come to an end, only for my 
hopes to be crushed by a time 
extension. Five minutes later, with 
a second time extension in motion I 
was about ready to leave when they 
actually had the senators raise their 
hands and vote on the extension. 
With a 13–13 tie on the second 
time extension vote, the senate 
voted another time, only this time 
to table the language to committee 
for another week. Yep, that’s right. 
We are going to go over all of this 
again next week. 
The next 30 minutes of Council moved surprisingly quickly, perhaps 
due to the exhaustion members may 
have felt with the issue of AVP work 
hours. Many senators looked on 
with dead fish eyes as the senate 
finished the rest of its business of 
the day by passing language with 
amendments defining an interview 
process for filling the newly opened 
seats due to the recent resignations.  
The final roster of the search 
committee to pick individuals in the 
case of a Vice President’s resignation 
or removal includes: 
(i) The President or designee, 
who shall chair the committee, 
(ii) The Vice President of External 
Affairs or The Vice President of 
Campus Affairs (depending on 
which one resigned/was removed), 
(iii) The Financial Controller and 
(iv) Four senators appointed by the 
president. 
The committee will solicit 
applications for the positions, 
screen and interview candidates 
for the position and make a 
recommendation to the President 
on the appointment of the Vice 
President. The President will 
consider the recommendation of the 
committee and submit a nominee 
for the position to the senate. 
The senate can then approve the 
nomination by simple majority. 
A.S. Council Senate meetings are 
open to the public and take place 
Wednesdays starting at 6 p.m. at the 
PC Forum, located on the fourth 
floor of Price Center.
Disclaimer: The weekly A.S. 
Council column is not meant 
to be a news story but rather an 
individualized account of what 
occurs at Council meetings.Senate Heavily Debated Work Hours At Most Recent Council Meeting 
The Vice President of Campus Affairs presented information on Sound Grenades, a self-defense tool that emits a loud sound to ward off attackers. A.S. COUNCIL COLUMN
BY  Z a i d  M a n s u r I
staff writer
Zaid Mansuri  Zaid@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jose is a binch according to Jose and Aleya.rain.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Rosina Garcia 
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
online. The criteria includes more 
seating and reasonably priced food 
and beverages that UCAB hopes 
will attract more students, staff and 
faculty to the space.
Wang elaborated that 
the restaurant and pub also 
serves as a venue for events,                                            
which was a specification UCAB 
wanted to improve upon with the 
revitalization project.
“The stage room will offer more 
programming space to student 
organizations than when Porter’s Pub 
was the operator of that space, ” Wang 
said. “The entire space has also been 
redesigned to bring more visibility 
when people are walking by. ”
Associated Students Concerts & 
Events is one student organization 
that has regularly used Porter’s Pub 
as a site to host concerts with guests 
such as Vanilla Ice, Jason Mraz and 
BJ The Chicago Kid.ASCE Senior Assistant Vice 
President of Concerts & Events 
Michelle Luong looks forward to 
hosting more of these events with 
the future vendor of the restaurant 
and pub.
“ ASCE used to produce a lot of 
pub events each year and, moving 
forward, we are excited to see policies 
enacted that ensure securing dates at 
the venue is easier so that we may 
use the pub as another accessible 
programming space for students, ” 
Luong told the Guardian. “We are 
excited to create a strong partnership 
with the new vendor at the pub and 
hope the pub can return to its former 
glory on campus. ”
The University Centers and 
UCAB will continue to monitor the 
project until completion and make 
improvements to make sure the 
space provides the most to students.From the Old Student Center, 
protesters moved to the medical school 
across Gilman Drive, then to W arren 
Mall where Tim Hawkinson’s “Bear” 
sculpture stands. There, students and 
faculty from STEM departments joined 
their ranks as they moved toward their 
final stop, Matthews Quad. 
In Matthews Quad, the march 
culminated with protesters, event 
speakers, and individuals celebrating 
Trump’s inauguration converging in 
one space. Trump supporters wore 
“Make America Great Again” hats and 
waved American flags as protesters 
chanted beside them. 
Sam from UCSD College 
Republicans, who declined to give his 
last name, spoke to the Guardian about 
his reasons for demonstrating with his 
fellow Republicans in the quad. 
“We are just here to celebrate the 
successful transition of power, the 
peaceful transition of power, which I 
think all Americans should be happy 
about, ” he said. 
Sam explained that being a Republican on UCSD’s left-leaning 
campus has gotten easier after  
Donald Trump won the election. 
“Y ou [faced] a lot of people calling 
you Nazis and racists, ” Sam said. “But 
I think after the election things have 
calmed down a little bit. ”
When asked about claims that 
Trump is misogynistic and racist, Sam 
denounced such claims and turned 
his focus to the protesters who still 
chanted around him. 
“Trump supporters aren’t the ones 
blocking buses, leaving classes and 
stuff like that, ” Sam told the Guardian. 
“ And as for claims of racism and stuff 
like that, Trump never said anything 
racist, alright. He wants to build a wall, 
but that’s not against immigration, 
that’s against illegal immigration. 
People always misconstrue that in the 
media. We love immigrants. ”
Sam also expressed dismay with 
the methods anti-Trump protesters 
used to make their grievances known. 
“The people who are protesting 
the inauguration of Donald Trump were blocking buses, blocking the 
roads and basically causing a massive 
inconvenience to people, ” Sam said. 
“We saw it happen down on the 
freeway, and people got hurt. Basically, 
it’s not productive at all. We are here 
to celebrate America and celebrate our 
patriotism for this nation. ”
Aside from the Lumumba Zapata 
Collective, the Communication 
Department organized multiple 
events in response to the inauguration 
that served protesters’ needs, like 
sign making at the Communication 
Department’s office, phone banking 
where students could call U.S. 
legislators and a read-in of Michel 
Foucault’s “Society Must Be Defended. ”
The protest mostly dissipated in 
Matthews Quad after hours of chants 
and speeches by Lumumba Zapata 
Collective speakers. But at the time 
this article was published online, there 
were still groups of activists and having 
discussions in the rain. 
kelp habitat, the leafy and common 
seadragons have developed dermal 
appendages that resemble kelp. 
However, the ruby seadragon lacks 
these features because it lives in 
more open waters. In addition, 
according to the study, the animal’s 
red color may be a camouflage 
strategy for its low-light habitat.
Stiller described the discovery 
of the new species as a very exciting 
moment in her research process. 
“We were watching the video feed 
from the dive robot on deck and all 
of a sudden, the fish appeared, ” she 
explained. “ After almost two years of 
imagining this species in the wild, 
there it was. ”
Stiller and her colleagues 
recommend the ruby seadragon be placed under protection as 
soon as possible. The other                        
seadragon species are already on 
the protected list.
With regards to their research,                                                                                                 
Stiller and her colleagues              
continue to study the leafy and 
common seadragons.
“We have collected our final 
samples for the genetics study of 
the other two species in Australia, ” 
she told the Guardian. “We are 
also working on gaining a better 
understanding on the evolutionary                                                                            
relationships of the seadragons 
and all of their diverse cousins, 
the seahorses, pipefishes and 
pipehorses.“▶ PROTEST  from page 1 ▶ CONSTRUCTION,  from page 1 Students Supporting Trump’s Inaugration Joined the Protesters in 
Matthews Quad, Waving Flags and Wearing “MAGA” HatsThe Space Will Double As an Event V enue
Stiller: The New Species Should Be Protected
▶ SEADRAGON,  from page 1
PROMIT A NAND Y   pnandy@ucsd.eduMa tthew Zamudio  M1ZAMUDI@UCSD.EDUMing-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu
UC President Janet Napolitano 
is undergoing treatment for an 
undisclosed type of cancer diagnosed 
in August 2016, the UC Office of 
the President announced on Jan. 17. 
The statement was released following 
Napolitano’ s hospitalization the 
previous day for side effects relating to 
her treatment. 
Although her diagnosis was only 
shared with the public this week, the 
statement explains that Napolitano 
kept UC Board of Regents Chair 
Monica Lozano “informed throughout 
the course of her current treatment” and has been fully capable of executing 
her responsibilities.
“During the course of this 
treatment, President Napolitano has 
consistently performed her wide 
range of duties at full capacity, without 
interruption or impact, ” the press 
release reads.
UCOP also noted that Napolitano’ s 
physicians believe she will be 
discharged in the coming days and 
will soon be able to continue her 
regular tasks at “full capacity. ” In 
the meantime, however, UC senior 
officials will assist Napolitano in overseeing the operations of the UC 
system and furthering its priorities. 
UC San Diego Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla released a statement 
on Wednesday expressing his 
support for Napolitano.
“The UC San Diego community 
was pleased to hear that the President 
is doing extremely well, and we look 
forward to her continued strides in her 
recovery, ” Khosla said. “We extend our 
warmest wishes for a speedy recovery. ”
President Napolitano has been 
previously diagnosed with and 
successfully treated for breast cancer. IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
LAUREN HOLT//  NEWS EDITORPresident Naplitano 
Hospitalized During 
Cancer Treatment4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Since 2013, UC San Diego has been 
advertised as a tobacco-free institution, but 
the quiet huddles of smokers who gather 
in the eucalyptus forest clearing and on 
the terrace behind Geisel prove otherwise. 
Although these sites are located far 
enough away from major thoroughfares 
that secondhand smoke is not a threat to 
the general student body, they do present 
the university with an environmental and                                     
ethical hazard. 
Proponents of smoking bans often cite 
a 2001 study in the American Journal of 
Preventive Medicine that found such 
measures reduce the number of students 
who start smoking in college by as much as 
40 percent but fail to report the study’s other 
finding that bans have no effect on those 
who are already smokers. UCSD’s ban forces 
habitual users to either wander to a secluded 
spot or the edge of campus to get their fix, 
spots at which mounds of cigarette butts 
rapidly proliferate. Cigarette butts last for up 
to 10 years, so even once smokers graduate 
and move on from UCSD, their legacy 
remains. Furthermore, by pushing smokers 
to these sequestered corners, a substantial opportunity to treat their addiction, or at the 
very least expose them to treatment options, 
is lost. 
Along Torrey Pines Road, just beyond the 
UCSD Extension, lies one such area. Though 
not officially sanctioned by the school, 
someone has taken the time to set up buckets 
for the safe disposal of cigarette butts and 
populate a kiosk with anti-smoking literature. 
Instead of ignoring on-campus smokers, 
UCSD would be well advised to institute 
these practices at other known smoking 
locations. Doing so would give smokers 
the opportunity to keep their campus clean 
and give healthcare providers the chance 
to get more smokers to quit. Smoking is 
an individual’s choice, and creating spaces 
for tobacco’s responsible use and possible 
treatment would better bridge the differences 
between one’s right to one’s own body and 
the university’s obligations to educate its 
students on personal health matters and to 
provide a clean, safe environment for all. 
 —KENNETH SCHRUPP
Contributing Writer
QUICK TAKESWHILE UCSD REMAINS A SMOKE-FREE CAMPUS, THIS DOES NOT STOP STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES FROM LIGHTING UP IN OUT-OF-THE-WAY PLACES, 
SUCH AS BEHIND GEISEL. SHOULD THE UNIVERSITY SET ASIDE PLACES ON CAMPUS FOR SMOKERS TO LIGHT UP WITHOUT RISK OF SECONDHAND SMOKE?
UCSD Ought to Enforce Constructive Anti-Smoking 
Regulations Campus-wide to Ensure Student WellbeingCreating Designated Smoking Areas is Logical, Realistic Approach 
to Promoting Environmental and Health ConsciousnessChargers fans were devastated to learn that 
their beloved football team would no longer be in 
San Diego as of Jan. 12, 2017. Following the failure 
of Ballot Measure C which would increase hotel 
tax rates from 12.5 to 16.5 percent to help fund a 
new $1.8 billion stadium and convention center, 
team owner Dean Spanos decided to move his 
team 120 miles north to join Los Angeles’ other 
professional sports teams. After 56 years of playing 
for the city, a lack of support to replace the aging 
Qualcomm Stadium proved to be the final nail in 
the San Diego Chargers’ coffin. Economists have 
warned that the Chargers’ departure would have 
long term detrimental economic effects to the San 
Diego community through a loss of jobs, tourism, 
merchandise and branding, as well as a lack of 
public morale. Therefore, an argument could be 
made over whether the move was in San Diego’s 
best interest.
The Chargers’ request for a new stadium has 
been a 15-year-long ordeal. Opened in 1967, 
Qualcomm has been home to all of San Diego’s college and professional teams including the San 
Diego State Aztecs and San Diego’s professional 
baseball team, the Padres. However, by NFL 
standards, the stadium is becoming increasingly 
obsolete. For the last few years, serious discussions 
were brought into public dialogue by the media 
over the Chargers’ potential move if the stadium 
were not to be replaced. No one in San Diego 
took these threats seriously and little was done 
to improve the situation. In April of 2016, the 
Chargers gathered over 110,000 signatures to 
put their initiative of raising San Diego hotel 
taxes to fund the nearly $175 million gap needed 
to build the new stadium. However, despite 
vigorous campaigning, voters rejected the measure                                                         
57–43 percent.  
The announcement of the Chargers’ LA 
departure was met with confusion, anger and 
bewilderment. Not only did the citizens of San 
Diego lose their hometown team, they faced 
an economic loss as well. According to a study 
conducted by the University of San Diego, the Chargers’ move will cost San Diego at least $126 
million a year in revenue. The study was conducted 
to analyze the annual impacts of Ballot Measure 
C and cited that the Chargers generate over $126 
million annually including non-player team 
salaries, city spending relating to Qualcomm and 
spending by visiting media and NFL officials. 
This number does not include the significant 
expenditures spent by visiting fans in San Diego 
hotels, restaurants and shops. The move will also 
cause a loss of at least 1,600 jobs — 1,400 of which 
are directly related to team activities and 200 which 
are indirectly related to the team. With an impact 
on labor income estimated at $67 million, the 
move could be detrimental to many San Diegans. 
The study also does not account for the hundreds 
of San Diego sports memorabilia shops which 
are experiencing a significant loss in revenue due 
to the inability to sell Chargers hats, jerseys and 
t-shirts. For the shop owners who already spent 
thousands of dollars on items branded with the 
San Diego Chargers logos, their goods effectively 
See CHARGERS page 5
At many universities, including the UC 
system, smoking on campus has remained strictly 
prohibited. Although not everyone may feel 
satisfied with this decision, a much larger portion of 
students and staff agree to the effectiveness of these 
terms. This is mainly due to the fact that smoking 
not only affects the individual, but those nearby 
them as well. Inhaling clouds of smoke while 
trying to study or eat may seem overwhelming to 
non smokers, not to mention the increased risks 
associated with secondhand smoking such as lung 
cancer, asthma, respiratory infections, and other 
respiratory diseases. Alongside these long-term 
problems come the side effects of addiction, which 
cause individuals unnecessary stress when they 
cannot obtain th--e product. Having to constantly 
feed this addiction eventually also impacts one’ s 
wallet, considering that the average pack of 
cigarettes costs about $5.50, equating to over $2000 
annually if a single pack is smoked a day.         
Aside from the numerous health concerns, 
smoking also makes a large contribution to air 
pollution and waste. Cigarette butts may seem 
small and insignificant, but they are actually the 
most common form of litter found on beach 
shores. Y et the problem does not stop there—
cigarette butts continually release toxic chemicals which harm living organisms. Thus permitting 
such actions on university campuses would be 
exposing ourselves to long-term effects without 
even recognizing it. 
While many argue that instilling strict 
regulations is futile, evidence has shown a decrease 
in student smokers at universities that banned 
smoking. According to USA T oday, students 
surveyed at these universities noticed dramatic  
improvements within a year after prohibition. 
Though it may not make a difference overnight, it 
has the potential of reducing the number of regular 
student smokers over time. Rather than charging 
fines on students caught, colleges should opt to 
provide programs for students struggling with 
addiction since it makes them feel less judged for 
their decisions while also helping them transition 
to a smoke-free life. The prevention of on-campus 
smoking is far better than ignoring an issue that 
could result in a hazardous campus. Colleges 
that have not yet implemented or enforced 
these regulations should do so for the wellbeing                  
of everyone.
             — JENNIFER RICO
Contributing WriterBY MEGAN MONGES // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONWhether seen as favroable or not, the Chargers’ move to Los Angeles is 
one decided by the people of San Diego, not just Spanos.
One Team’s Fate the 
Decision of ManyOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
became worth less to nothing when 
Spanos released his decision on                           
the 12th.  
Despite the initial public outrage 
over the move, not every San Diegan 
was upset with the proposed move. 
Many of those living and working 
in downtown San Diego where the 
Chargers’ new stadium was proposed 
to be built are happy that the initiative 
failed. Artists in Barrio Logan were 
worried that a new downtown stadium 
would change the landscape of their 
neighborhood that would increase 
property values and ultimately force 
them and other lower income families 
out of their homes. The other concern 
is that Barrio Logan, which has 
become an epicenter for San Diego artists, would change. With higher 
property values, the beautiful and 
intricate murals up on the city walls 
would likely be destroyed through 
neighborhood development. The 
question in their minds was if a 
new stadium for football was worth 
the destruction of their homes and    
prized works. 
It’s understandable to say that 
the Spanos family’s decision to leave 
San Diego was not an easy one to 
make. Leaving behind a city so rich 
in culture, loyalty and pride is hard 
to do. For 56 years, San Diego stood 
behind the Chargers, and through 
wins and a lot of losses, the team was 
still a city treasure. When the Chargers 
move to Los Angeles, they will join 
a laundry list of professional sports 
teams including the newly minted LA Rams. Sharing a stadium with LA ’s 
soccer team, the Galaxy, and met by 
LA fans who frankly don’t want the 
Chargers, one can wonder if the move 
was actually worth all the trouble. It’s 
an impossible situation where not just 
one person bears the blame. Dean 
Spanos and his family tried for many 
years to keep the Chargers in San 
Diego, but an inability of funds and a 
lack of public support became an issue 
they just couldn’t ignore for any longer. 
While San Diegans are now in outrage 
over the move, they did not come out 
in the numbers needed on voting day. 
As harsh as it may be, San Diego only 
has itself to blame for the loss of the 
city’s treasure. 
▶ CHARGERS from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
MEGAN  MONGESfacebook.com/ucsdguardian
MMONGES@UCSD.EDU
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
HOURS
/tritonfoodpantry6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
OLIVER KEL TON / / TIA IKEMOTO
features@ucsdguardian.org
People who enjoy reading about stories 
with protagonists will not find singular 
faces in the history of Lumumba Zapata 
Collective. Since its inception in 1968, the group’s 
identity as a coalition has been paramount. The 
collective’s framers didn’t sign individual names 
onto their first demands — then revolving 
around the creation of what would be called 
Thurgood Marshall College — and none of 
the people speaking about the coalition today 
will be identified by name. Instead, they will be 
reflective of the collective: an anti-authoritarian 
and anti-capitalist multiracial coalition, working 
to develop analyses of how state and corporate 
power flow manifests in the university.
People who enjoy reading linear stories 
with discreet turning points will similarly find 
few of these in the timeline of the collective. 
While the Lumumba Zapata t-shirts made in 
preparation for tomorrow’s strike made a debut 
within the last few months, the collective was 
not merely revived with the election of Donald 
Trump or by the racist chalkings left outside 
Raza Resource Centro last spring. Both added a 
sense of urgency to the collective’s organizing — 
particularly the latter, as the town hall meeting 
held two days after the election drew many 
new participants — but Lumumba Zapata’s 
efforts in the upcoming strike can be seen as 
an accumulated effort to make a critique that 
has been in wider discussion for some time. 
This is now described by the collective’s five 
demands: the UC Administration’s denunciation 
of Donald Trump’s government, sanctuary 
school status, Hispanic Serving Institution 
status, free education and full demilitarization 
and divestment from toxic UC investments.
“There have been a few attempts to organize 
some sort of autonomous, anti-authoritarian 
organization on this campus for years, ” one 
member of the collective told me at Groundwork 
Books, among shelves of books on revolutions 
and radical movements. “There have been 
various forms of that type of group in my 
time here, and they’ve often consisted of about            
10 members. ”
Within the days following the election 
results of Nov. 8, the opportunity for larger 
mobilization arose. As one member put it, there was a renewed urgency in “struggling against 
a new manifestation of fascism. ” Coming from 
diverse disciplines, students and faculty with 
varying experience in organizing and many of 
whom were new to the collective, contributed to 
the scope of today’s demonstration.
Two other members spent the afternoon of 
Martin Luther King Jr. holiday working on a 
banner, taking a break to speak with me about 
the recent weeks. I asked one of them about 
balance, which proved to be something of a non-
question. Balance seems to be an afterthought 
when the work of planning direct action is too 
important to just pass on.
“We’re balancing it in the sense that we don’t 
have class today, so today is a great day to work, ” 
one of the members said, which probably rings 
true for everyone in the collective.
The other member, who joined within the 
past year, described the uniqueness of post-
election organizing. She described the election 
as a catalyst.
“It kind of galvanized the response, ” she said, 
sitting next to a banner outside of Groundwork, 
which also served as the site of poster-making 
and speech-writing. “ A lot of the problems here 
were very much structural and intrinsic, but 
the election of someone like Trump almost 
normalized it on a national scale. For a lot of 
us, it made us pay attention and decide that 
this is the moment to start getting involved. 
Racism and misogyny and homophobia have 
been normalized, and we also have to normalize 
resistance to it. ”
Among those catalyzed are two particular 
segments of the student body. One is 
undergraduates, who are described as virtually 
uninvolved as of spring and now a sizable 
part of organizing. The other is students and 
faculty from the STEM department, which a        
graduate student who wrote the strike’s STEM 
walkout described.
“We adopted some of the materials to be 
specifically geared toward a STEM audience 
to try and activate this very large STEM 
population here at UCSD, undergraduate and 
graduate, that hasn’t been super active, but I 
expect will be heavily affected by the upcoming 
administration, ” she said to me, over a pair of posters and markers. “Besides our science 
funding and research, we’re also going to be 
affected in the other ways that we are people.
Tracing back to the chalkings in spring, the 
first source further described Trump’s victory 
in terms of the sentiment behind Lumumba 
Zapata’s demands: a manifestation of attitudes in 
existence far before November, and, in various 
ways, practiced by the university. One example 
he cited was the abysmally low proportions of 
Black and Latino students at the university. This 
is clear from the data set published by UCSD 
Student Research; one text box accompanies 
undergraduate enrollment of 2016 by ethnicity 
and boasts, “The undergraduate student body 
at UCSD is ethnically diverse; approximately 71 
percent of undergraduates are students of color. ” 
The data to its right illustrates that 70 percent 
also fall under the two categories of Caucasian 
and Asian, while 18 percent collectively 
describes the enrollment of African-American, 
Mexican-American, Latino, Native-American 
and Filipino students, despite these populations 
being far higher throughout California, whose 
people the university was created to serve.
“Types of very neo-colonial endeavors, ” he 
said, alluding to the university’s contribution 
to  the production of weaponry alongside its 
ties to the defense industry and debts abroad, 
“are affecting people of color both abroad and 
here. Our initial intention was just offering all 
these types of critiques so that the university 
could never really position itself as antithetical 
to Trump. We saw that [the sentiment of the 
chalkings] was going to start happening, and 
the university — in its kind of traditional way 
of coopting these types of things in the way 
that it has done historically for student of color 
movements — would say, ‘Hey, we’re going to be 
this sort of paternal sort of figure to everybody, ’ 
without taking a clear stand on that, and at 
the same time reproducing all these types of   
horrific practices. ”
In many ways, the Lumumba Zapata 
Collective of today isn’t far different than its 
namesake, which the collective’s website 
describes as being birthed through the fight for 
an “alternative education model that focused It’s 7 a.m. on Jan. 20, and I’ve been awake through the night. When I asked to interview a member of Lumumba Zapata Collective — the group 
responsible for organizing UCSD’s role in today’s UC-wide strike, J20 — he agreed under one condition: the piece would be published in advance of the 
strike. The condition is sensible. No one in the collective has had time to waste on anything that wouldn’t promote the strike. They’ve been planning, 
meeting and organizing for the entirety of the past few weeks; some of them have been building relationships for years, centered essentially around the 
same five demands of today’s strike. After interviewing him at 5 p.m. last night, I mention that I plan on staying up all night to write it, and he tells 
me that I shouldn’t let writing the piece kill me. At this point, it’s clear that the agreement wasn’t as binding or formal as it sounded in the email. But 
that doesn’t really matter. The strike tomorrow represents cumulative years of organizing and coalition-building. Regardless of who or how many will 
participate, it will serve as a massive and historic display of an ongoing, if unseen by most, chapter of resistance.
SeeLUMUMBA ZAPATA , page 7Lumumba Zap a t a: 
Looking Back to Move Forw ardBy Quinn Pieper 
Contributing Writer
photo by Patrick Lazo // UCSD GuardianFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
It was a wet day. I sat on the 
bright red couch in computer science 
professor Mia Minnes’ room, warming 
up from the weather outside. As she 
walked her previous guest out, I stared 
at the complex diagrams on portable 
whiteboards covered with even more 
figures than the main whiteboard. 
The painting above the couch had 
green tones that contrasted with the 
sofa and her overhead bookshelf was 
completely full.
Minnes was born as Mor Minnes 
in Israel, a place full of short but 
meaningful names: she has a sister, 
Shir, and two brothers, Tom and Gal.
“Mor means the Hebrew version of 
myrrh, ” Minnes explained. “If you’ve 
heard of frankincense and myrrh, it’s 
in the Bible in various places. It’s a 
pleasant smell or scent. ”
Even as a child, she was 
academically advanced for her age. 
She attributes this to her sister, Shir, 
who is two years older. When Shir 
came back from school in first grade, 
she would teach Minnes everything 
she learned.
“The benefit or drawback of this 
arrangement was that when it came 
time for me to go to school, I had 
learnt it all. I ended up skipping a 
grade. I feel like I have always been 
surrounded by people who are older 
than me who pushed me to go further 
but have always been accepting. ”
When she was seven, Minnes 
moved to Vancouver with her family. 
Canada, where she stayed from 
childhood through college, is still 
where she calls home.
“That is why I am loving the 
weather this week, ” she says, happily 
gesturing out the window toward 
the dark skies. “It is very rainy and 
beautiful and gray. I do like San Diego 
weather though. ” She paused. “It just 
doesn’t feel like home. ”
After moving from Israel, Minnes 
struggled with her given first name, 
Mor, until her grandmother suggested 
she pick a new one that worked better 
in English. She settled on Mia partially 
because it was short and started with 
an “M, ” a nod to her real name, and 
partially because it was uncommon at 
the time.
“The only person I knew called Mia was Mia Farrow, the actress, ” Minnes 
explained. “I didn’t want a name where 
I would go to the playground and 
hear a whole bunch of other Mias 
running around. Now, when I go to 
the grocery store, I hear a lot of ‘Mia, 
stop it’ or ‘Mia, turn around. ’ I’m just 
thinking, ‘what am I doing wrong?’ 
But I chose it specifically so it wouldn’t 
be that common!” she laughed,                  
feigning indignance.
She went on to Queen’s University 
in Kingston, Ontario. Minnes received 
a Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy 
and a Bachelor of Engineering degree 
in a hybrid program called Math and 
Engineering with a Computer and 
Communications Focus. (“ Another 
mouthful, just like my name, ” she 
said, laughing.) She decided to do 
two degrees because she enjoyed 
thinking about how and why people 
know things as well as the endless 
applications of math.
“I was exploring a lot of 
epistemology, but then I also 
discovered logic and I fell in love with 
modal logics, ” she excitedly told me 
in a self-proclaimed “geeky” fashion. 
“The communication was a whole 
‘nother can of worms. It was fun         
but unconnected. ”
Minnes took some time to 
deconstruct her interest in the two 
disciplines, leading her to graduate 
school in Cornell University, where 
she earned a doctorate in math after 
five years. When I asked her what her 
thesis was, she gleefully told me, “I’ll 
show you, ” and stood up to pull a black 
book from her bookshelf.
“It was a very liberating time, ” she 
says of her time at Cornell working 
for her Ph.D. “Y ou can be very selfish 
and just work on your own research 
and focus on that, and your main 
responsibilities are about cultivating 
yourself as a scholar and becoming the 
expert in the world on your chosen 
field. ” She smiled. “ And I met my 
husband there. ”
Minnes met Todd Kemp at 
Cornell’s welcome weekend, which he 
organized. Todd was four years older 
and already in the Ph.D. program. 
They met through a secretary at 
the university who knew Todd had 
experience commuting from Canada to Cornell. 
“What Todd recommended was to 
take a cab. So I ended up taking a taxi 
across the border. Apparently you can 
do that!”
After welcome weekend, the two 
became friends; after a period of dating, 
they married in 2006. Her full name 
became “Mor Mia Minnes Kemp, ” the 
same name most students will see 
on the registrar, though she prefers 
simply Mia Minnes in professional 
settings. Immediately afterward, her 
husband moved to Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. They spent 
two years commuting between Boston 
and Ithaca.
“The commute is exactly five hours 
and 15 minutes, and we know that 
route very well, ” Minnes said to my 
horrified face. By chance, a committee 
member for her Ph.D. program, 
Richard Shore, also lived in Boston. On 
Thursday afternoons, Minnes would 
carpool with Shore across upstate New 
Y ork and spend the weekend with     
her husband.
Minnes joined her husband at MIT 
for a postdoc when she graduated from 
Cornell. Two years later, they both 
got positions at UCSD in the math 
department and moved to California.
“My first position at UCSD was a 
postdoc in the math department, ” she 
says. “The opportunity to be a teaching 
professor in the [computer science 
and engineering] department came 
up, and I was thrilled because it was a 
perfect fit for me. My work is right at 
the interface of the two, so I’m just as 
happy talking to mathematicians as to 
computer scientists about my work. ”
The classes Professor Minnes 
taught and currently teaches at UCSD 
include courses on mathematical logic, 
basic set theory and computability 
theory. At MIT, she taught a seminar 
on Kolmorgorov complexity (“It’s the 
idea of figuring out definitions and 
tests for distinct random events. It’s so 
cool, ” she explained enthusiastically.)
She has also been very passionate 
about education throughout her 
career. Minnes says she’s happiest in 
quarters when she has a good balance 
between teaching and research. In 
recent years, she has been conducting 
research in education through the use of massive open online courses, 
or MOOCs. Professor Minnes along 
with a few other professors in the 
computer science department created 
an MOOC for those who wanted 
to gain an edge when applying for 
software engineering jobs.
“We had a blank canvas to put 
in all the best practices we knew of 
about teaching, like all of the cool 
pedagogical ideas we had but didn’t 
want to try on 200 innocent students 
in our classroom whose grades really 
mattered. We could be a little more 
experimental without scaring them. ”
A lot of these educational 
“experiments” had a basis in 
psychology, such as the concept of 
fixed and growth mindsets. Essentially, 
those with a fixed intelligence mindset 
may believe that they are not suited 
to the subject when facing a difficult 
problem, whereas someone with a 
growth mindset will believe they only 
need to try harder.
Data from this research permeates 
Minnes’ teaching process. For example, 
the research suggests that stories 
from successful people about their 
struggles helps students embrace the                                                             
growth mindset. 
“It’s OK to struggle, ” Minnes said. 
“That’s something that I think about 
a lot when interacting with students, 
when interacting with colleagues and 
when thinking about how to build         
a course. ”
Some of the struggles Minnes has 
faced in her life have been a result of 
being a woman in the STEM field. 
While she was at Queen’s, she was 
one of three women in her classes. 
A good support system and mentors 
were important to her success, and she 
says she doesn’t take them for granted.
“Sometimes you can feel like you’re 
the weird one out, the person who’s 
sticking out a bit. Which I have to 
be honest, has its perks: you’re never 
overlooked, ” she admitted, “but it can 
feel like a lot of pressure when you’re 
the odd one out. ”
As someone who was out of step 
with the norm even as a child, Minnes 
says she has carried an imposter 
syndrome with her. Though anyone 
can have it, she tells me it’s particularly 
prevalent in minorities.“They can also carry with them 
some of the stereotype threat where 
you feel like, by your actions, you’re 
going to confirm potentially negative 
stereotypes of the group, ” she thought 
for a second and grinned, “like you’re 
carrying the mantle of womanhood. ”
For Minnes, her imposter 
syndrome stems from the fact that 
she always had her foot in two worlds: 
math and computer science. “I’m not a 
real computer scientist nor am I a real 
mathematician, ” she said she would 
think at times.
I asked her how she overcame 
her imposter syndrome. She let out a 
nervous laugh.
“Never? I don’t know many 
people who overcome it. I feel like it’s 
something that is with you. It just is … 
there, ” she said sadly, smiling weakly. 
“Many, many, many days and yes, 
nights — especially nights — it rears 
its head, and I think what’s important 
then is to say, ‘I’m doing my best, and 
I keep improving and that I can’t be an 
imposter being me. As long as I’m true 
to me, then I am doing what I need to 
be doing. ’”
We had been talking for a while. 
Minnes glanced at her iPhone. “I 
should see the time to make sure I’m 
not too late for picking my daughter 
up, ” she said apologetically. “Natalie’s 
about to get up from her nap. ”
I asked if I could quickly see some 
pictures. She agreed, lovingly pointing 
out a few blurry photos of her two 
young girls as she scrolls. “This is 
Anna, and this is Natalie. They’re 
about to turn six and two … we were 
at a gymnastics party … Natalie was 
just going non-stop the entire time, ” 
she said, losing herself in the photos. 
“I have a bazillion; they’re really cute. ”
Minnes said that her daughter’s 
ages are like “hourglasses. ” When she 
and her husband moved to California, 
she was pregnant with Anna. When 
she moved to the computer science 
department, she was pregnant            
with Natalie.
She took one last look at the photos.
“I’m gonna go and hug them. ”BEHIND THE LECTERN
Mia Minnes - Mathematician and Computer Scientist Extraor dinaireBy Timothy Deng / / Contributing Writeron the liberation of domestic and 
global communities of color … and 
centered a critical analysis of racialized 
global capitalism and its discontents. ” 
Named after Patrice Lumumba, the 
first Congolese Prime Minister, and 
Mexican revolutionary Emiliano 
Zapata, the collective in the ‘60s and 
‘70s formed as a coalition between the 
Mexican American Y outh Association, 
known today as Movimiento 
Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán and the 
Black Student Council, now the Black 
Student Union. Of the collective’s first 
demands — including creating classes 
such as Analysis of Economic Systems, 
including “the crucial roles played 
by colonialism, imperialism, slavery 
and genocide in the development of 
Western capitalism” and an admittance 
guarantee of 35 percent Black and 
35 percent Brown students — those 
that continued to be honored years 
after the resolution agreed upon by 
then-Dean George Murphy would 
dissipate. The proposed name for the 
college, Lumumba Zapata College, 
was not favored by administration. 
An advisory board created in regards 
to admissions, for one, was completely 
abolished.
In every way, the demands of 
today’s collective as part of the J20 
strike can — and should — be seen as essential rather than ultimate, coming 
from a coalition of people who have 
been organizing not around a specific 
ideology, political disposition or 
discourse but instead an ethos and 
a feeling that threads together each 
demand. This much becomes clear 
when discussing the collective with any 
member. There’s a collective struggle, 
and a high regard for and presence 
of trust in the group, which separates 
it from more politic-centric groups 
that exhibit less interconnectedness   
among members.
“There’s relationships that have 
become foundational to actually being 
able to mobilize, ” said the first source. 
“We’re only really able to come together 
as any serious organizing body of folks, 
I think, because of prior work we’ve 
done on previous failed attempts. ”
Beyond learning from previous 
movements and attempts, successful 
and unsuccessful alike, there’s an 
explicit feature of the coalition 
which is linked in our conversation 
to antimiscegenation and redlining: 
the collective as a body of people 
comprising a plurality of racial groups.
“The state has always really seen 
interracial coalition-building as a 
serious threat, ” he said. “We emphasize 
interracial coalition-building because 
we feel like the university has really used its resources and its ability to 
kind of distribute resources in a way 
to divide students of color — webbing 
students of color to the university 
in some way, but forcing students of 
color to perform under a certain set 
identity in order to be worthy of those 
resources that the university has to 
offer. ”
Just as the action leading up to 
the strike culminated overtime, what 
will happen after the strike is already 
being determined. Rather than doing 
anything of cathartic or spontaneous 
nature, the collective will review the 
strike and continue moving forward. 
As one member suggested next to 
the banner on MLK holiday, it’s   
something every student should be 
concerned with.
“ At a certain point as a student, you 
have to think: what’s the value of your 
degree? Pushing your university to be 
better is part of our responsibility, too, ” 
he said. “It’s part of my responsibility 
as a student to be an activist, I think, 
and to get all of us to push the 
university towards a better place. And 
chances are, your relationship with the 
university would be longer and more 
ongoing. ”▶ LUMUMBA ZAPATA , from page 6
SeeLUMUMBA ZAPATA , page 7Timothy Deng  tideng@ucsd.eduQuinn Pieper  qpieper@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WeekendCome Again, We’d Recommend 
Monello 
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
750 W Fir St. (Mon.–Thurs. 11 a.m.–9 p.m., Fri. 11:30 a.m.–10 p.m., Sat.–Sun. 10 a.m.–10 p.m.)
$$
A Milanese transplant from Big to Little Italy, Monello is trending because it doesn’t stray from the traditional. This bite of Northern Italy 
in the Southernmost point of California boasts 22 types of in-house-made pasta and one of the first “aperitivos” — an upscale Italian happy 
hour — in San Diego. Small and intimate, this minimally decorated space offers no distraction from the plate. On any given night, the menu at 
Monello is an impressive collection of pizza margherita, creamy tortellini and calamari fritti. And for Restaurant Week, Monello continues to 
impress with an Italian feast that satisfies. For a $15 lunch, Monello offers an antipasto and main course combination to fuel patrons through 
the workday. The gnocchi, a personal go-to, did not disappoint: Cooked al dente and simply dressed in raspa dura cheese sauce, sprinkled 
with pepper and pecorino, this delicacy paired well with a more delicate zuppa del giorno, a lighter vegetable soup that balanced the heavier 
gnocchi well. For $30, dinner offers a more diverse variety of antipasto, entrees and desserts, serving everything from a classic Caesar salad to 
squid-ink spaghetti. Make sure to finish the night with a signature tiramisu that will make breaking any 2017 resolution worthwhile. Monello 
is a classic that is sure to stay in the ever-shifting San Diego food scene, ensuring that you’ll get to go, time and time again. 
Cafe Gratitude
 by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
1980 Kettner Blvd. (Sun.–Sat 8 a.m.–10 p.m.)
$$
If you’re looking for trendy SoCal cuisine, make sure not to pass by Cafe Gratitude, a la la land favorite that brings a bit of DTLA into 
DTSD. Catering to stomach and soul, this eatery believes in well-being in both the plate and philosophy. Everything is made to refocus body 
and mind on the good, through plant-based, fresh foods and decor that stimulates an appreciative ambiance. Each menu starts off with an 
“I am” statement to encourage you to pick a dish based on mood. This Restaurant Week, Cafe Gratitude offers a healthy play on words that 
stimulate those endorphins, like “eclectic, ” buffalo sauce-dressed cauliflower, or “elated, ” black bean stuffed enchiladas. Maybe you’re feeling 
“irresistible, ” represented by coconut creme pie, or in need of an “awakening, ” found in a slice of key lime pie. Either way, make sure to take 
a stop at this new spot — we are sure you’ll be thankful you did. 
George's Oceanview Terrace
 by Tara Nejad // Staff Writer
1250 Prospect St. (Sun.–Sat. 11 a.m.–3:15 p.m., 4 p.m.–9:45 p.m.)
$$$
With an oceanfront view and rooftop seating, George’s is the ultimate Restaurant Week location, but be sure to come with a full wallet. 
Cashing in at $50 a person, this menu is on the high end of Restaurant Week’s many options, but for good reason — unforgettable ambiance, 
great service and not to mention, delicious food. The three-course meal starts with a choice of appetizer, ranging from fish tacos to soft egg or 
pork belly. Then, the entree portion of the meal offers many great seafood options, which they are known for, in addition to a great variety of 
other proteins for all to choose from. The trio is wrapped up with sweet options from cake to sorbet. Choose someone special for an evening 
out, and don’t forget to make a reservation. George’s Oceanview Terrace is sure to be a big hit. 
Puesto
 by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
1026 Wall St. (Sun.–Thurs. 11 a.m.–9 p.m., Fri.–Sat. 11 a.m.–10 p.m.)
$$
It may not be as traditional as the tacos found in Chula Vista, much less those down in sister city Tijuana, but, nonetheless, Puesto is the place to try out 
SoCal spins on Mexican street food favorites. Iconically dressed in orange, this string-bulb-lit and cacti-adorned atmosphere invites the eye and stomach 
to join in. Famously known to use the freshest of ingredients, the Restaurant Week lunch and dinner menus, at $15 and $30 respectively, serve up tacos, 
moles, bowls and ensaladas stuffed full of locally grown and raised produce and protein. Complimentary chips and salsa come with each meal, and while 
the guacamole, like other places, costs extra, you won’t be dissatisfied with this perfectly seasoned avocado blend. For the main course, Puesto highlights a 
plethora of tacos. Personal favorites include the carnitas taco — stuffed with mildly spiced, tender pork and a fresh tomatillo salsa, the zucchini and cactus 
taco — a flavorful blend of veggies topped with melted queso fresco and the lamb barbacoa taco — unusual for a taco filling, but delicious nonetheless. 
Make sure to accompany your taco trio with a tres leches de cafe dessert, a glass of horchata and good company. Come for the tacos and stay for the fiesta. 
SeeRESTAURANTS , page 9LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Ask a teenager what their hobbies are and most of 
them  will say Netflix, sleeping and, of course, eating. 
Food is a vital part of survival, but it’s also something 
we have ingrained into our culture. America, with its rich 
mix of different people and cultures, has become the perfect 
blend of sweet and salty, spices and soy sauce. With over 
600,000 restaurants all across the country, it’s hard to find an 
unrepresented cuisine or something you don’t like. 
Restaurants were not a necessary institution in early 
America since the majority of Americans prepared food at 
home using ingredients either grown locally or by the family. 
The only people who had to worry about eating out of the 
house were travelers, and their needs were met by hotels or 
taverns. The modern idea of the restaurant did not arrive in 
America until the mid-1800s. Most of these restaurants catered 
to the upper class. For example, Delmonico’s, which is widely 
regarded as the first restaurant in America and was the best 
restaurant at the time, offered a French-style, fine-dining 
experience to rich New Y orkers. The food industry began to 
surge in the early 1900s, when restaurants thrived due to a 
variety of factors, the most important being the emergence of 
low-cost foods that catered to the average American. 
Zagat conducted a survey of over 9,000 people across the 
country and found that the average American eats out 4.5 
times a week, not counting breakfast. People dine out for 
many reasons, and it’s hard to pinpoint one main motivator. 
Aside from the obvious convenience factor, there’s also a 
social aspect that goes along with eating out. Getting food 
together, whether with friends, family or romantic interests, is 
a common event in American society that is widely accepted. 
People may also eat to try new foods or experience a different 
culture. Surprisingly, a good portion of vacation destinations 
center around a restaurant. 
However, dining out can come at a cost, especially when 
fast food is involved. In the 2004 documentary, “Super Size 
Me, ” Morgan Spurlock chronicled his experience eating 
McDonald’s food items for breakfast, lunch and dinner for 30 
days. While doctors predicted that the change in eating habits 
would not have too extreme of an effect on his body, Spurlock 
went from being fit and generally healthy, to gaining nearly 25 pounds and becoming lethargic and depressed. Though 
fast food chains have since tried to adopt healthier options 
on their menus, American restaurants still don’t skimp on 
offering excessive salt and sugar. Additionally, we are known 
for having extremely large food portions compared to the rest 
of the world. Both of these reasons, coupled with a culture 
that has become less active, have led to countrywide health 
detriments. 38 percent of adults and 17 percent of teenagers 
are obese, the CDC reports, and this is not counting the other 
third of Americans who are overweight. Though movements 
have emerged over the last few years to combat this, namely Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move!” campaign, the obesity epidemic 
is still very real. 
Still, dining out is an important part of our society, and 
people shouldn’t be afraid to take advantage of that. Food 
is often more than just what you put in your mouth: It can 
encompass family traditions, evoke feelings of nostalgia or 
introduce someone to a new part of the world. “The social 
act of eating is part of how we become human, as much as 
speaking and taking care of ourselves, ” said Richard Wilk, 
leader of the food studies program at the University of Indiana. 
“Learning to eat is learning to become human. ” by Annika Olives // Staff Writer
Herringbone
 by Tara Nejad // Staff Writer
7837 Herschel Ave. (Mon.–Fri. 11:30 a.m. –11p.m., Sat.–Sun. 10 
a.m.–11 p.m.)
$$$
As soon as you enter Herringbone’s front doors, you are transported to a different 
world. With lights streaming across the room, trees growing indoors and live music 
playing, your dining experience is sure to be unique. Herringbone’s Restaurant Week 
menu includes both $30 and $50 three-course meal options, the latter offering some 
of its more sophisticated entree choices. Assuming we students will lean toward the 
$30 option, here is what a typical meal will look like: Y ou’ll start with the perfect 
teaser of soup, salad or ceviche, guaranteed to leave you excited for the rest of the 
meal. Then, you’ll choose a delicious flatbread. Craving a classic margherita, or some 
hearty fennel sausage? Herringbone has a few choices to satisfy. Lastly, you have a 
choice of dessert, where there is, of course, no wrong answer. 
Nobu
 by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
207 5th Ave (Sun.–Thurs. 5:30 p.m.–10 p.m., Fri.–Sat. 5:30p.m. –10:30 p.m.)
$$$
On the pricier spectrum of what the average college student is used to, Nobu is a renowned 
kitchen worth dishing out a bit of financial aid on. Its namesake, Chef Nobu Matsuhisa curates a 
menu for the sophisticated palate and for this Restaurant Week is offering a $40, four-course dinner. 
A peek into the menu features a fusion of PacRim cuisine through an array of sashimi and cooked 
seafood choices. A favorite of this culinary institution is the yellowtail sashimi topped with thin 
slices of jalapeno, something you won’t find on the DelSushi website. The black mussels tossed in 
a miso broth are also on every food critic’s radar (and within my peripheral). Chef Matsuhisa also 
offers a “Nobu twist” on the boardwalk classic, fish and chips, by giving it an Asian fusion makeover 
with its ponzu dipping sauce. The menu also offers a matcha lime cheesecake that beckons like a 
siren’s call. So if you’re willing, save up that McDonald’s change for a night of well-done cuisine.CUCINA urbana
by Jocelyn Y ang // Staff Writer
505 Laurel St. (Mon. 5 p.m.–9 p.m., Tues.–Fri. 11:30 a.m. –10 p.m./12 
a.m. Fri., Sat. 5 p.m.–12 a.m., Sun. 4:30 p.m.–9 p.m.)
$$$
Stylized culinary lunches will be offered to all who visit CUCINA urbana. An Andrew 
Jackson can score you one of the following Italian wonders: 
Starters include a Ribollita soup of tuscan bean and kale or an arugula and heirloom 
tomato salad with parmesan, radicchio and dressed in an 18-year balsamic vinegar. 
Entrees feature a selection of Margherita pizza with San Marzano tomato, house-made 
mozzarella and basil. Or, indulge in a lamb sausage, spinach and mushroom lasagna 
with bufala mozzarella, portobello and mushroom panna. They also include polenta and 
braised pork shoulder ragu, porchetta and brie panini with truffle fries and arugula, truffle 
oil and wildflower honey or a grilled three-cheese panini with fries.
Hungry for more? Seasonal dinners at CUCINA urbana will be served with the promise 
of locally sourced products as the dishes’ origins. For $30 to $45, you can taste some of 
these delicious dishes like a beet and avocado salad or burrata and prosciutto caprese salad. 
Live on the edge and have some stuffed squash blossoms, rib-eye carpaccio or even grilled 
octopus. Follow up with either spaghettini or roasted chicken escarole cacciatore with 
cracked yukon potato and even Mediterranean sea bass. And don’t forget about that sweet 
tooth: CUCINA urbana has a delectable array of desserts from upgraded chocolate peanut 
butter bars, not-your-Girl Scout’s Samoa bread pudding with toasted coconut, chocolate, 
butterscotch gelato or Camembert di bufala with maple bourbon poached seckel pear.
If there’s any bit of doubt that has yet to be abated even after reading this mouth-
watering list, you can suspend your disbelief via Y elp. Nearly 3,000 Y elpers agree: CUCINA 
urbana is not one to miss. ▶ RESTAURANTS , from page 6
I’m Lovin’ It:  
Why Americans Dine Outillustration by Michi Sora // UCSD Guardian
illustration by David Juarez // UCSD GuardianIn 2008, 135,000 hopeful singers auditioned to be on 
“A m e r i c a n  I d o l .”  The  m u s i c  i n d u s t r y  i s  f a m o u s  f o r  w i d e -
eyed dreamers looking for fame and fortune. Explaining that 
you’re trying to make it as a musician is seen as a joke, a foolish 
endeavor, especially on the UC San Diego campus, where every 
other student is firmly set on a track toward becoming a doctor 
or engineer. It’s seen as dangerous to look ahead and not see a 
clear future, to not have a straightforward answer when adults 
ask, “What are you looking to do after graduation?” Thurgood 
Marshall College senior Graham Elliot Richardson is one of the 
few who will tell you he’s looking to be a professional musician, 
and he has an idea of what it takes to get to the top. 
Richardson has soaked up almost all that UCSD has to offer 
in the realm of music. He majored in jazz and the music of the 
African diaspora, studying soul, blues, R&B, funk and hip-hop. 
The Marshall music major ultimately found inspiration working 
with professional acts as a festivals director for A.S. Concerts & 
Events, noting that the position opened doors and helped him 
understand the business better. Being close to the action wasn’t 
enough, though. 
“It hit me when I was standing side-stage with Chance the 
Rapper, ” Richardson told the UCSD Guardian. “I realized this is 
as close as I’m ever going to get, without being on stage. I realized 
I gotta be out there. This isn’t enough, I gotta be performing. ”
Richardson released his latest single, “Midwest Muse, ” on 
iTunes this past Tuesday. The upbeat pop track chronicles his 
adventure at Lollapalooza last year, focusing on the people he met 
at the festival. 
“My style, ” Richardson explained to the Guardian, “is an 
‘80s influenced pop. I pull from Bruno Mars, Chromeo, Mayer 
Hawthorne, the funky kind of Earth, Wind and Fire type, with a 
modern twist. ” 
“I’m trying to make people dance, ” he added. “That’s the 
number one thing. ”
When asked about songwriting, Richardson emphasized the 
emotional connection to the music. “To me the best songs are all about feelings, and I know that sounds like I’m going to go make 
an emo song. What I mean by that is, we like songs and songs 
stick with us because they make us feel a certain way. ” 
But breaking into the music industry is like a tree growing 
roots into a rock: It takes years of focused effort and growth 
before success, but Richardson understands his chances and the 
work required. 
“It’s just giving it 100 percent every day, for years, until you 
reach a tipping point, ” he told the Guardian. “Hopefully people 
discover you and people share with their friends. It’s gotta build 
organically. ” 
So the struggle is in forcing this natural growth to develop at the 
same time as hundreds of thousands of others, the same talented 
and ambitious singers appearing at open mics, in coffee-shop 
gigs, in bars across the country, as well as on TV programs like “X 
Factor” and “ American Idol. ” 
“Once you reach a certain quality of music, ” he admitted, “there’s 
another 70 percent of it at least done sitting at a desk behind a 
computer or on a phone — that’s where the magic happens. ” 
The musician spent winter break emailing thousands of 
international music blogs, radio stations and newspapers, hoping 
people will listen to and spread his music. At this point, his 
music has debuted on blogs as far away as Barcelona and on 
underground music sites. 
“I’ve contacted a bunch of music outlets I’ve never heard of, ” 
he laughed to the Guardian. “There’s one called Deezer. I’ve never 
heard of it, but I’m on it!”
Not only do young musicians have to fight to be heard, but 
they must strive to join an evolving industry that’s constantly 
revolutionizing itself in an effort to keep up with the ever-
changing music listener market. 
The modern music business is a feudal system, with an 
aristocracy of powerful decision-makers and a sea of singers, 
songwriters and skilled musicians all angling for their 15 minutes 
of fame, one million hits on YouTube, a plot of land on which to 
build their empire. GRAHAM ELLIOT
By Peter McInnis // Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF GRAHAM ELLIOT10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
A Sitdown withA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Resurrected from the Hollywood 
graveyard, a beloved children’s 
series has gained new life 
as a Netflix series. For many fans 
who grew up reading the books, its 
abandonment after one moderately 
unsuccessful film was a tragedy, akin 
to Harry Potter and friends laying 
down their wands after only one film. 
Thanks to dedicated producers Daniel 
Handler and Barry Sonnefield, who 
have carried the torch for this series 
for 13 years since the 2004 film by the 
same name, fans old and new have a 
chance to see a much more faithful 
adaptation of this beloved series. 
We follow Violet (Malina 
Weissman), Klaus (Louis Hynes) and 
Sunny (Presley Smith) Baudelaire, 
three children whose parents recently 
perished in a mysterious fire. 
Ultimately, they are sent to live with 
a (very) distant relative, the villainous 
Count Olaf (Neil Patrick Harris). Each child has a unique talent, which aids 
them in thwarting Count Olaf’s plot to 
steal their sizable inheritance. As the 
show progresses, they try to remain one 
step ahead of the Count while trying 
to solve the mystery of their parents’ 
death and the possible involvement 
of a shadowy organization, the V .F.D.
Neil Patrick Harris’ version of the 
main villain, Count Olaf, is snarkier 
and more subdued than Jim Carrey’s 
previous portrayal, but this isn’t by any 
means a bad thing. Instead of being 
derivative of Carrey’s interpretation 
of the role, Harris’ Count Olaf feels 
like an older, much creepier version 
of the actor’s most famous character, 
Barney Stinson (“How I Met Y our 
Mother”), which adds a lot of appeal 
for adults. He also sprinkles in a 
little Hannibal Lecter and a pinch of 
Mrs. Doubtfire for good measure. 
This series improves on the 
aforementioned film because it captures the wonderfully strange, 
non-linear storytelling pattern of the 
original books. The largest difference 
in this long-form series is the addition 
of Patrick Warburton as the titular 
character, Lemony Snicket. He serves 
as the narrator for each episode as 
well as a character proper, living in 
the background shadows of many 
scenes. He regularly breaks the fourth 
wall to speak directly with the viewer, 
offering us backstory and commentary. 
W arburton’s interpretation of Snicket 
as this hardboiled detective type works 
well to create a great post-modern feel to 
the series, reminiscent of “Dirk Gently’s 
Holistic Detective Series” and others. 
Many critics of modern children’s 
programming often talk about how 
increasingly adult themes are featured 
in media aimed at those who are 
not yet 16 years old. “ A Series of 
Unfortunate Events” may fall into this 
category, with a healthy dose of mild violence, both explicit and implied, as 
well as some kidnapping and arson 
to boot. However, the show manages 
enough levity and cuteness to appeal 
to a younger audience, who may be 
increasingly desensitized to the more 
abhorrent of things. Kids watching at 
home would also like the fact that 
the three orphaned Baudelaires often 
seem the most mature and logical of 
all the characters, while the adults 
are usually oblivious to the events 
unfolding around them. Overall, 
however, this series may appeal most 
to adults, as the slow pace and dry 
humor may leave younger audiences 
switching over to content with 
more explosions and bright colors.
Visually, the series is very stagey, 
filmed in a compact style like the 
set of a Broadway play. It feels like a 
well-done homage to the illustrative 
style of the children’s book series, 
creating a small and often magical self-contained world. It also looks 
very Wes Anderson-esque, with a 
vintage charm reminiscent of “The 
Royal Tenenbaums” and “Moonrise 
Kingdom, ” with a bit more murder and 
mayhem thrown in for good measure. 
The success of this unique story 
as a television series instead of film(s) 
serves as a microcosm for how both 
kids and adults today consume media. 
We increasingly find that long-form 
visual storytelling gives us much 
more compelling characters and story 
elements, and we want them delivered 
directly to us in an on-demand 
modality. Shrug off the stigma of an 
adult watching a kid’s show, and add 
“ A Series of Unfortunate Events” to 
your list of shows to watch in 2017.
—   Spike  Hemans
 Contributing WriterWhile designed for kids, Netflix’s “ A Series of Unfortunate Events” has enough dark humor and dry wit to appeal to all ages. 
TV    REVIEW
a  series  of  
unfor tuna te  events
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Creators   Barry Sonnefield, Daniel Handler
Starring Neil Patrick Harris, Patrick Warburton, Malina Weissman
Release Date   Full Season Available on Netflix 
Rated   TV-PG B+  12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
A.S. CONCERTS AN D EVEN TS
ENTER TAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriousl y. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on th e Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events th at you 
want to see this year. 
Take our En tertainment Sur vey to
be entered for the chan ce to win  a
$10 Starbuc ks gift card.
https://studentvoice.com/ucsd /asce16At its face, Netflix’s 
new show “The OA ” 
— released with no 
advertising or notice — is another 
version of “Stranger Things. ” Both 
feature a nosebleed-prone female 
protagonist with mysterious 
powers encountering evil scientists 
and alternate dimensions. 
However, the similarities stop 
there. While both are fantasies, 
“The OA ” has a more ambitious 
premise and approaches its story 
with a greater sense of realism. 
Created by lead actor Brit Marling 
and director Zal Batmanglij, both 
veterans of mystical storytelling, 
the show’s intriguing, often 
baffling narrative is anchored by 
a strong central performance and 
convincing direction. The show’s 
overly ambitious reach, however, eventually led to “The OA ” 
overstaying its welcome halfway 
through the season.
In the first episode, we are 
introduced to Prairie (Brit 
Marling), a blind woman who 
disappears for seven years and 
inexplicably returns home with 
her sight. It’s a lot to take in, 
but the show blossoms into an 
utterly intriguing mystery. One 
that, during the first half of the 
season, unfolds at each stage 
with more wonder than the last. 
“The OA ” follows Prairie’s story 
both in the present and in the 
past as she reveals the course of 
her complicated life to a small 
group of followers, five misfits 
from Prairie’s home town.
As she guides her followers 
deeper and deeper into her life story, Prairie begins to change 
their lives in the present. It 
becomes clear that Prairie 
understands each of her followers 
better than they understand 
themselves. Watching these 
characters fall under Prairie’s 
spell feels like watching the 
formation of a cult. The major 
difference, however, is that the 
audience also falls under her 
spell. Prairie has an inexplicable 
aura which draws people to her, 
and Marling is exceptional in 
the role, portraying Prairie’s 
childish vulnerability as well 
as her moments of resolve and 
profound insight.
The concept behind “The OA ” 
is certainly a tough sell, and the 
show walks a fine line between 
intrigue and ludicrousness. However, “The OA ” manages to 
remain convincing through the 
richness of its storytelling. It is 
difficult not be to drawn in by the 
wealth of unique elements, from 
Prairie’s small-town home, a dim, 
realistic portrait of an American 
community, to the surreal 
landscapes of an otherworldly 
environment that Prairie has 
visited. The only consistent 
element guiding us through 
this mystical, vertiginous story 
is Prairie. Director Batmanglij 
weaves together the genres of 
fantasy, realism and science 
fiction and blurs the lines 
between them. This allows “The 
OA ” to tell its spiritual story in a 
way that might otherwise have 
been laughable.
The show’s blissful intrigue and wonder, however, couldn’t 
be sustained past the first 
four episodes. While the first 
half of the season builds up a 
compelling spiritual mythos, 
“The OA ” begins to delve into 
dime-store philosophy and new-
age mysticism in lieu of drama. 
Obsessed with trying to prove 
its originality and insightfulness, 
“The OA ” loosens its tight grip 
on its audience and begins to 
turn transparently absurd. And, 
yet, Prairie tells her story with 
such clarity and sincerity that 
her loyal followers keep coming 
back, desperate to find out what 
happens next.
—   Naft ali  burak ovsky  
Associate EditorThe novelty of Netflix’s “The OA, ” predicated more on mood than terror, makes for a series that’s less than the sum of its parts.
TV    REVIEW
the  oaPHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Creators   Brit Marling, Zal Batmanglij
Starring Brit Marling, Emory Cohen, Scott Wilson, Jason Isaacs
Release Date   Full Season Available on Netflix 
Rated   TV-MA B-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
ENSO
STRING QUARTET
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTERTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 23 - JAN 292017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 1.23 WED1.25FRIDAY 1.27  • 8pm
THU1.26
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE1.24
4pm
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - 
GREAT HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of 
the world in which we live. The Global Forum 
is a program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life 
through speaker series, seminar discussions, 
student panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES 
- THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
6pm
UCSD BASEBALL VS. SAN 
DIEGO CHRISTIAN - UCSD
Come support your UCSD Baseball team as 
they take on San Diego Christian!
7pm
JOHN FONVILLE PORTRAIT 
CONCERT - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Emeritus faculty member John Fonville and 
current graduate students will present the 
complete set of Fonville's Changing Scales. 
Free admission. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu10am
YOGA ZONE: HATHA STRETCH - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come to this deep stretch class and let go. Using 
props like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls this 
class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body. Led by FitLife instructor Nadine, this free 
program is on first come, first serve basis. Blocks 
and yoga mats provided. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: HERBED 
TOFU CAKES - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA 
Come join us as we make Herbed Tofu Cakes, 
hosted by Christine McNamara, and get FREE 
samples! Materials and ingredients are provided. 
Space is limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu5am
YOUABROAD STUDY ABROAD 
SERIES PRESENTS: 
LATINO/A/XABROAD - RAZA 
RESOURCE CENTRO
An interactive conversation about Latino/a/x 
experiences abroad. Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
11:30am
FLU CLINIC AT THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come get your flu shot at The Zone! Cost of 
vaccine is FREE for students with SHIP . Costs for 
students without SHIP: Injectable: $5 Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
SAT1.28
12pm
UCSD SWIMMING & DIVING VS. 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO - 
RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Swimming and Diving 
team as they take on University of San Diego!
7pm
UCSD SWIMMING & DIVING VS. 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO - 
RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Men's Volleyball team 
as they take on Hope International!10am
PROGRAMMING WITH 
PURPOSE: FROM MISSION TO 
MISSION ACCOMPLISHED - 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PC 
WEST
Sick of planning an event the same way youâ   ve 
done it every year? Ever find yourself asking why 
you do this? Before jumping right in to host a 
program, in this workshop students will learn easy 
steps to plan a successful event with purpose. 
This workshop goes past event planning 101, and 
takes a deeper look into what it takes to create an 
intentional program that serves personal and 
professional goals of an organization. Presented 
by Grace Fuller, Outreach Coordinator, 
International & Out-of-State Student; and Jesse 
Rapport, Coordinator of Student Activities, Sixth 
College Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
COMPUTER MUSIC FOCUS: 
ANNE LA BERGE - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
The Computer Music Focus lecture series 
continues with a presentation by flutist, composer 
and improviser Anne La Berge. Free admission. 
Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES AT INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE - INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
Want to study abroad? Interested in sharing your language skills with others? Then come to LCT! The 
Language Conversation Tables are one of International House's most popular programs. Each quarter, 
students host a variety of languages for UC San Diego students, staff, faculty, and community members to 
learn and practice another language in a fun and casual environment. Language Conversation Tables are 
especially important for students who wish to study abroad or simply improve their language skills at 
UCSD! LCTs meet every Thursday at 6pm either in the Great Hall or the Asante classrooms! Register here: 
http://tinyurl.com/LCTWinter2017  Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.eduFRI1.27
SUN1.29
5pm
LYTLE SCHOLARSHIP CONCERT 
- CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT 
HALL
The 2017 Lytle Scholarship Concert will 
feature the UC San Diego Gospel Choir and 
Archie Robinson with New Birth Praise. All 
proceeds from the event go to support 
undergraduate scholarships. Tickets are $10 
for students, and can be bought at the door or 
ahead of time by calling 858-534-1842. 
Contact: lkovack@ucsd.edu
Website: 
http://calendar.ucsd.edu/event/21st-annual-l
ytle-scholarship-concert/ARTPOWER PRESENTS
11am
WHAT'S YOUR PASSION? - BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST
Still trying to discover what you are passionate 
about? Not sure how to prioritize your passions 
as goals and incorporate them into your daily 
lives? Engage with your peers and develop your 
passion plan! Students who attend and full 
participate will get their very own Passion 
Planner (limited quantities available). Presented 
by Frida Pineda Alvear, Program Coordinator, 
Center for Student Involvement. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
8pm
TRITON FEST: WINTER 
WONDERLAND - SUN GOD LAWN
We invite YOU to be a part of Triton Fest's 
growing history this quarter! After three 
successful years of our fall quarter events, Triton 
Fest is BACK with the first ever winter series! 
Join us at Sun God Lawn on Friday, January 27th 
for Winter Wonderland - a winter-themed play 
area to feature a human snow globe, chocolate 
fountain, DIY activities and, yes of course, 
falling snow. Who says there's no such thing as 
winter in California? Entry is free with a valid 
UCSD undergraduate ID. See you there! 
#TritonFest Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu 
8582462228
8pm
ENSO   STRING QUARTET AT 
ARTPOWER - DEPT OF MUSIC'S 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL 
UCSD Student: $9 Named one of the eminent 
string quartets of our era by Classical Voice, the 
Grammy-nominated Ens o String Quartet has 
risen to the front rank of chamber music 
performers. Founded at Yale University in 1999, 
the quartet has been described by Strad 
magazine as thrilling, and praised by the 
Washington Post for its glorious sonorities. The 
quartet quickly went on to win numerous awards, 
including top prizes at the Concert Artist Guild 
competition and the Banff International String 
Quartet competition.14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Impertinence
4. ‘’___ at ‘em!’’
9. Scour
14. Clear start?
15. Exemplar
16. Boor
17. Hannah of ‘’Hannah and Her Sisters’’
18. Type of artist
20. Louisiana feature
22. Do-well intro
23. Partner of sex and videotape
24. Diva’s offering
26. Topples
28. Commuter’s alternative
33. Subject of King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz
34. Emissary of the pope
35. Kind of sister or story
38. Beautiful and graceful girls
40. Long, fluffy scarf
41. Leaf aperture
43. Wasn’t used
44. Potbelly
47. Bator’s beginning
48. Harvard’s theater award
50. Right-triangle reciprocal
53. Palindromic sound effect
54. Uzbekistan sea
55. Silence between notes
59. Deliver an impassioned presentation
62. Use a remote, in a way
65. Euripides drama
66. Aromatic compound
67. A form of defamation
68. Disencumber
69. Gangling
70. Musical study
71. Ernie of the PGADown
1. Symbol of obedience
2. Pelvis parts
3. Act
4. Readily convertible to cash
5. An Internet address ender
6. Chinese chow
7. Medieval war club
8. Actress Sommer
9. MIT, for one
10. Swiss Alps residence, perhaps
11. Altercation
12. Goaded
13. Sanctify
19. Bread end
21. Small African antelope
25. E. Coast ocean
27. Pizza orders
28. Prison terms
29. Kind of rug
30. Counter
31. Opposite of ecstasy
32. Anti-discrimination org.
35. PC diversion
36. Arabian Sea nation
37. Report of a shooting?
39. Bridge part
42. English ruling dynasty
45. The Jetsons’ dog
46. Shanty
48. Obeyed the sentry
49. Scribble
50. Less hazardous
51. Clear the whiteboard
52. Class of Hindu society
56. Della’s creator
57. Farr co-star
58. Forbidden perfume?
60. Plug away
61. Breaks off
63. Word with fish or small
64. Kind of carpetAUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires 
- GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 
307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
BIKE
My Precor Commercial Recumbent Bike for 
your elliptical -  Looking to trade my precor 
C846 commercial recumbent bike for a 
heavy duty elliptical machine. Please don’t 
offer light duty elliptical machines. This 
recumbent bike was used in a small gym 
with regular maintenance and is in attrac -
tive condition. New battery less than a year 
ago. Listing ID: 306503162 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Modified Pocket Bike. x7 Model Fast! (San 
diego) - $250. Nice x7 49cc pocket bike gets 
up to about 45 almost 50. Has brand new 
seat headlight air filter boost bottle velocity 
stack and a new nitrous kit. Needs a good 
carb cleaning from sitting for a month or so 
asking $250 cash.show contact information 
Listing ID: 306503161 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationTRADE MY 2003 HOG BIKE - FOR YOUR XLNT 
MPG CAR (San Diego) -  TRADE MY CLEAN 
TITLE BIKE FOR YOUR CAR. YOUR CAR MUST 
BE A : RELIABLE FOUR CYLINDER CLEAN 
TITLE CAR THAT GETS 35 MPG. NO JUNKERS 
OR PILE OF CRAP HOOPTIES !!! I WANT A 
RELIABLE GAS SAVER CAR TO TRADE FOR 
MY MOTORCYCLE!! MY BIKE IS A: 2003 
KAWASAKI NOMAD 1500cc FUEL INJECTED 
VERY WELL TAKEN CARE NEVER CRASHED 
OR LAID DOWN CLEAN TITLE LOTS OF 
EXTRAS I PUT ON THE BIKE, .....I’M THE 2CD 
OWNER. NEW TIRES NEW BRAKES COBRA 
DUAL EXHAUST SYSTEM HANDLEBAR 
RISERS HARD CASE SIDE BAGS THAT LOCK 
HELMET LOCKS 2 OF THEM STEERING LOCK 
6 PACK RACK AFTERMARKET LIGHT BAR 
WITH LIGHTS BIKE COVER NO ISSUES AT ALL 
WITH MY BIKE . READY TO HIT THE ROAD! 
DON’T RIDE ANYMORE ...................... CALLS 
ONLY ---/619 ~ 7 1 5 ~ 0056/--- PLEASE 
DON’T WASTE MY TIME AND I WONT WASTE 
YOURS. THIS IS A SUPER CLEAN BIKE WITH 
VERY LOW MILES .ONLY 20,000 ORIGINAL 
MILES PULL A CARFAX ON MY BIKE AND 
SEE FOR YOURSELF. I WANT A RELIABLE CAR 
AND I’M WILLING TO TRADE MY BIKE , AND 
CASH FOR EQUAL VALUE TRADE ! Listing ID: 
306503160 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 
4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FREE Electric cement mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In work -
ing condition but note wheels are broken.P
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
Level: 1234SUDOKU
LA JOLLA INSTITUTE NOTICE OF PREPARATION
MESA HOUSING NUEVO
WEST AND EASTDRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
The University of California is the Lead Agency for the Mesa Housing 
Nuevo West and East project and will prepare a focused environmental 
impact report (EIR) to evaluate the environmental effects of project 
implementation.  The proposed project would consist of two campus 
housing developments and a shared parking structure located on 
separate, but proximate sites totaling approximately 17 acres within the 
87 acre Mesa Housing Neighborhood located on the East Campus of the 
University of California, San Diego.  The proposed project would 
replace low-density student housing with higher-density apartment 
buildings that are environmentally responsible in design and 
construction, and address the current demand for affordable on-campus 
housing, which exceeds the supply.  The project would provide a total of 
approximately 1,470 net new beds for graduate students; 80 beds for the 
UC San Diego Family House; structured and surface parking; and 
supporting facilities within the Mesa Housing Neighborhood.  The 
project would seek to achieve Leadership in Energy Efficient Design 
Gold rating from the U.S. Green Building Council.
The public scoping period for the Draft EIR will extend from January 
19, 2017 to February 17, 2017.  Any comments regarding the scope 
and content of the project EIR should be directed to Catherine 
Presmyk, UCSD Physical & Community Planning, 9500 Gilman Drive 
MC 0074, La Jolla, CA  92093-0074.In compliance with the State and University of California 
guidelines for implementation of the California Environmental 
Quality Act, this notice is hereby provided to inform the public 
that the University of California, San Diego is preparing a Draft 
Tiered EIR on the above-named project.  The Notice of 
Preparation can also be viewed at
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
WINTER 2017
M: 9am-2pm
Tu/Th: 2pm-5pm
W: 9am-2pm
F: 10am-12pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
/tritonfoodpantryDespite going undefeated in 
conference play for about half of 
the season, the UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team has hit a wall in 
its last two games.  On Thursday 
night, the Tritons took their second 
consecutive loss at the hands of Cal 
State San Marcos, 67–72.  Their 
second loss in as many games brings 
their overall record to 14–4, while 
holding a 9–2 conference record. 
The Tritons now stand tied for first 
place with Chico State University 
(9–2) in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings.
UCSD got off to a terrific start, 
taking a 20–9 lead almost midway 
through the first half and looking 
as if the team was on its way to a 
comfortable win. But basketball is 
a game of runs, and San Marcos 
took advantage of the Tritons’ 
lackadaisical defense to turn the 
game around, going on a 19–6 run 
to take a 28–26 lead with a few 
minutes remaining in the half.   
Even though they did not 
execute as well as they would have 
wanted, the Tritons still had a 
chance at redeeming themselves in 
the second half and almost did. 
After San Marcos increased its lead 
to 10 early in the half, UCSD was 
able to climb back into the game 
and trailing only by a mere point, 
52–51. Freshman forward Scott 
Everman did his best to help the 
Tritons to a win with a career-high 
16 points (6–11). However, at the 
end, the team fell just short after the 
Cougars increased their lead back 
to eight with a few seconds of play 
remaining.  
Along with Everman, junior guard George Buaku (13), senior 
guard Adam Klie (12) and 
sophomore guard Christian Oshita 
(10) all ended the game in double 
figure scoring. Once again, the 
Tritons were without sophomore 
center Chris Hansen.  
UCSD finished its up and down 
shooting night at 45 percent (27–
60) which is not particularly bad; 
however, 16 turnovers simply is way 
too many. The Tritons cannot afford 
to be careless with the ball as they 
near the last part of the season.  
Another telling part of the game 
was the amount of free throws San 
Marcos took compared to UCSD’s: 
The Cougars shot 32 free throws, 
making 27 while the Tritons 
only took eight trips to the line,       
making four.   
UCSD will need to show 
resiliency in its next couple of games 
as the team heads back on the road 
for two important matchups. The 
first of those is against Stanislaus 
State University on Friday, Jan. 27, 
which will be vital in order to instill 
the confidence back into the group, 
especially given that on Saturday, 
Jan. 28, a crucial trip to Chico 
State will take place. The Tritons 
need all the momentum they can 
garner going into the Chico State 
matchup because they cannot afford 
to be moving down the standings 
as the season winds down. It will 
be interesting to see how the group 
responds to the adversity, which 
has not exactly existed during 
the season, at least in conference 
play. Both matchups will tip-off at        
7:30 p.m.  No. 11 UC San Diego, picked 
to finish atop its conference by the 
Western Water Polo Association 
coaches, opened the season with a 
two-day tournament at UC Santa 
Barbara. The UC Santa Barbara Winter 
Invitational took place on Saturday and 
Sunday, and the Tritons came away 
with two wins and two losses.
UCSD started the tournament with 
a bang, taking down Sonoma State 
16–7 but fell to No. 5 Hawai’i 8–5. 
UCSD 16–7 Sonoma State
The Tritons were led in their first 
game of the season by a pair of seniors, 
two-meter defender Alexis Wieseler 
and center Lauren Boyer, who scored 
four goals each en route to the    
decisive win.
Boyer opened the score in the first 
period, but the Seawolves quickly 
equalized, then took the lead with back 
to back goals. Down 2–1, the Tritons 
faced their only deficit of the game. 
They scored three more goals, one by 
Wieseler, one by Boyer and one by 
junior utility Kayla Fedler to take a 4–3 
lead into the second period.
UCSD put its foot on the gas, with 
four unanswered goals, ultimately 
going up 8–5 at the half. The second 
half was more of the same, as the 
Tritons scored five in the third frame 
while giving up only one and three 
more goals in the fourth, to take 
the game 16–7. The Tritons had a 
newcomer in goal, freshman Reilly 
Gallagher, to replace the record-setting 
goalkeeper who graduated last season, 
Courtney Miller. Gallagher fared well, with seven saves and one assist.
Hawai’i 8–5 UCSD
UCSD had a nightmarish first half 
against its higher ranked opponent, 
surely not the start they were expecting. 
Hawai’i came out of the gates firing, 
opening up a 3–1 lead after a quarter 
and 6–1 after two. 
The Tritons answered in the second 
half. Fedler got UCSD back within 
three when she scored two goals 
to open up the quarter. The team’s 
defense also stiffened up, holding the 
Rainbow W ahine in check during the 
quarter. Wieseler took her chance with 
a last second shot and got it to go, as 
the Tritons entered the last quarter 
down by only two goals. 
UCSD’s hopes were quickly washed 
away in the fourth however, as Hawai’i 
scored two goals to open up the 
quarter and put the game out of reach. 
A late goal by Wieseler brought the 
score to 8–5.
“I was extremely happy with our 
performance against Hawai’i tonight, ” 
UCSD head coach Brad Kreutzkamp told UCSD Athletics. “We stepped 
up and played toe-to-toe with one of 
the best teams in the country, and I 
thought we played great and showed a 
lot of physicality. ”
Wieseler and Fedler combined for 
four goals, and Gallagher had another 
solid game with 13 saves and an assist.
“Overall, I think today was very 
successful for us, ” Kreutzkamp said. 
“We had to overcome some early 
season jitters with our game against 
Sonoma State, but I think we stepped 
up and finished the day with a strong 
performance against Hawai’i. ”
Pacific 12–15 UCSD
UC San Diego started Sunday with 
the upset over No. 10 Pacific.
UCLA 17–2 UCSD
In the second game of the day, 
however, the Tritons were helpless 
against No. 2 UCLA.
Next up is the Triton Invitational 
on Feb. 11 and Feb. 12.Tritons Stumble In Showdown 
With Cal State San MarcosTritons Open Season, Split Games at UCSB Invite
The team lost 72–67 after an early lead in the first half. No. 11 Tritons upset No. 10 Pacific but were unable to defeat No. 2 UCLA.MEN'S BASKETBALL W. W A TER POLO
BY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
senior staff writerBY  M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e r
Managing editor
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduMarcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 23, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
With its return home on 
Thursday night, the UC San Diego 
women’s basketball team wanted 
nothing more than to win its 
10th-straight game and was not 
about to let the 8–7 Cal State San 
Marcos Cougars spoil its thunder. 
UCSD accomplished just that: the 
Tritons crushed the Cougars in an 
84–60 victory to improve to 14–3 
overall and 10–1 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Meanwhile, Cal State San Marcos 
fell to a mediocre 8–8 overall and 
5–6 in conference play.
The first minutes of the opening 
quarter wound up being a close 
affair, marked by three tied scores. 
For a moment it looked like the 
Cougars weren’t about to allow their CCAA rival to just cruise to an 
easy victory. That didn’t last long, 
however, as senior guard Beth 
Mounier jacked up a three and 
then laid the ball in on the next 
possession to give the Tritons a 13–6 
advantage, the team’s largest lead of 
the quarter.
While the Tritons led by as many 
as 15 in the second quarter, UCSD 
found its lead quickly cut down to 
as little as eight points, leaving the scrappy Cougars within a couple of 
stops of making it a game. While 
this inability to put the game away 
early on may have worried some, 
it clearly didn’t have any effect on 
the Tritons. The Tritons opened the 
third quarter on a 12-point run, 
suddenly finding themselves with a 
22-point lead and complete control 
for the rest of the game, as their 
lead never fell below double digits 
and even rose above 30 points in the fourth quarter. 
Mounier had yet another stellar 
night, scoring a team-leading 18 
points and grabbing eight boards, 
while senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod also dominated with 15 
points, nine rebounds and five 
assists in just 18 minutes of play.
“We’re committed to playing 
team basketball. We’re comfortable 
sharing the ball, ” UCSD head coach 
Heidi VanDerveer told the Athletics Department. “We’re not going to 
give up easy baskets in transition. 
I’m really proud of the way our team 
has progressed so far. ”
Next up, the Tritons face 
Stanislaus State in Turlock on 
Friday, Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m.WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY  A l e x  w u
Associate sports editorUCSD 
Pummels 
Cougars En 
Route to 10th-
Straight Win
Tritons strengthen their 
grip on CCAA lead with 
84–60 victory.
alex wu  adw006@ucsd.eduThe UC San Diego men 
and women’s swim and 
dive teams handily beat 
California Baptist University this 
past Saturday, Jan. 21 at home on 
Senior Day. UCSD’s No. 5 men’s 
team bested No. 15 CBU 167–129, 
while the No. 6 women’s team didn’t 
even give the No. 13 Lancers a 
chance, beating them 200–100. 
Out of the 32 combined events for men and women, UCSD won 22, 
including all of the relays. Highlights 
of the meet include the men’s 200-
yard freestyle, in which UCSD’s 
senior Michael Cohn narrowly beat 
CBU’s freshman Justin Quiroga by 
less than half of a second. Cohn 
was also victorious in the 200-yard 
backstroke, this time not allowing 
his competitors to get close to him: 
He beat the second-place finisher by almost 10 seconds. 
The women’s 100-yard 
backstroke had a one, two, three 
sweep in UCSD’s favor, with junior 
Julia Toronczak taking first, junior 
Alex Rodman placing second and 
freshman Elee Wong finishing third. 
UCSD also swept the pool in the 
men’s 50-yard freestyle, taking the 
first five spots. Another exciting 
race came in the men’s 100-yard freestyle: UCSD freshman Tin 
Huynh beat CBU sophomore Alexis 
Ohmar by 0.02 seconds. The men 
seem to like those narrow victories, 
as the freshman Jack Spitser came 
out on top by 0.61 seconds to win 
the 500-yard freestyle in 4:43.30.
Though no Triton earned a first-
place finish for diving, freshman 
Tiffany Wong earned respectable 
second-place finishes in the one-meter and three-meter springboards. 
Next up, the women will host 
and compete against University 
of San Diego on Saturday, Jan. 28 
at noon. On Wednesday, Feb. 8, 
both the men and women’s teams 
will look to defend their Pacific 
Collegiate Swimming and Diving 
Conference titles at Monterey Park.
Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd.edu
Tritons Sink California Baptist UPCOMING by Rosina Garcia // Sports EditorBoth the men and women’s swim & dive teams crushed their comepetition on Senior Day.SWIM & DIVE
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIANBaseball
W. Basketball 
M. Basketball
Swim & Dive
M. Volleyball1/25
1/25
1/27
1/27
1/286 PM
5:30 PM
7:30 PM
12 PM
7 PMVS San Diego Christian
AT Stanislaus State
AT Stanislaus State
VS University of San Diego
VS Hope InternationalUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES