VOLUME 50, ISSUE 25  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREFOOD FOR     
THOT
WANT TO FIGHT THE URGE 
TO TAKE THOSE MID-
AFTERNOON NAPS? LIFESTYLE 
HAS SUGGESTIONS TO 
HELP YOU MAKE HEALTHIER 
DECISIONS WHEN YOU ARE 
LOOKING FOR FOOD ON 
CAMPUS OR WONDERING 
WHAT TO DO WITH ALL THOSE 
KITCHEN GADGETS.  
CORPORA TE  ACTIVISM 
FINDING A   MIDDLE GROUND
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
WATER IS ESSENTIAL  TO CALIFORNIA  
CONSIDERING  THAT 54 PERCENT 
OF IT IS USED FOR AGRICULTURE , 
ESPECIALLY IN THE SUMERTIME  
WHEN THE DEMAND  FOR WATER 
USUALLY  SURPASSES  ITS AVAILABILITY . 
WITHOUT  IT, CALIFORNIA  WOULD 
NEITHER  BE ABLE TO GENERATE  THE 
PROFIT  IT MAKES  NOR SUSTAIN  THE 
REST OF AMERI CA.”
- Jennifer Rico
To Stay or Calexit
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
BRIEFS ............................ 2
DELETE  UBER ..................3
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT  10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
W. BASKETBALL  ............ 15lifestyle,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY OF LEANNE CHEN
AFTER YEARS OF FALLING 
POPULARITY, THE FOOD CO-OP 
IN THE OLD STUDENT CENTER 
CLOSED ITS DOORS THIS 
PAST WEEK. WE SPOKE WITH 
LONG-TIME MEMBER DAVID 
MORALES ABOUT ITS ROLE 
IN THE COMMUNITY, HOW 
IT DEFINED VOLUNTEERS’ 
COLLEGE EXPERIENCES AND 
HOW HE HOPES TO BRING IT 
BACK.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
SPIRIT  NIGHT
ucsd  domina tes
sports,  P age  16FOOD   CO-OP   CLOSES
“
UC San Diego’s “The Vagina 
Monologues” completed its first 
and second shows on Thursday 
and Friday, respectively, marking 
the school’s 18th production of 
the play and its first production 
of “herstories, ” stories written 
by UCSD students about their 
experiences with sexual assault and 
their sexuality. 
Originally written and performed 
by Eve Ensler as an off-Broadway 
show in 1996, the show has since 
been replicated at various college 
campuses and other locations 
around the world. Some pieces 
are light-hearted while others are 
more serious, focusing on female 
sexuality and identity. 
The new pieces added to the show 
are a compilation of the various experiences of womxn on campus 
and were chosen from submissions 
from various writers.
Janine Lopez, a graduate from 
Thurgood Marshall College and this 
year’s casting director, explained 
that she found a lot of similarities in 
the submissions. 
“There were common themes 
and a lot of intersections, ” she told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Each piece 
is so different from the others, but 
they all have common intersections. ” 
Lopez explained that her goal for 
the show is for the audience to learn 
something new.
“There’s a lot of very deep pieces, 
and I hope that [the audience] 
doesn’t become uncomfortable,” 
Lopez said. “I hope instead that they 
learn and that they practice what 
they learn in the future. ”
Priyanka Jhalani, a Muir College 
freshman and member of the cast, wants the audience to understand 
the importance of pain. 
“I want them to understand 
that empowerment and pain are 
not separate things, and a lot 
of times pain is the catalyst for 
empowerment, ” she said. “I want the 
audience to walk away feeling my 
power, my pain, my struggle, and 
realize that if they feel like they’re 
being treated unjustly, they have 
the right to stand up and walk the 
hell away. ”
Jhalani experienced mixed 
responses to her involvement in the 
show, with some people supporting 
her and the event wholeheartedly 
and others expressing discomfort. 
“I received mostly positive 
reactions, but there are some 
negative reactions too, ” she said. 
“Someone told me that someone University 
Art Gallery 
Hosts 50th 
Anniversary 
ExhibitionUAG
The exhibit focuses on the 
abstract works of the late 
Harold Cohen, his specialty. 
The Undergraduate Art Gallery 
opened a special 50th anniversary 
exhibit from Jan. 31 to Feb. 2 
titled “Harold Cohen, Celebrating 
Computation Creativity” to 
recognize the work of abstract 
painter and innovator Harold 
Cohen, who passed away in April 
2016. 
Open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., 
the exhibit was open and free to 
the public and featured a curated 
collection of Cohen’s works, many 
of them adhering to a theme of 
colorful, abstract and machine-
learning pieces. It is part of “Visual 
Arts @ 50, ” a series of exhibits that 
celebrates the 50th anniversary of 
the department at UC San Diego by 
highlighting the works of students, 
faculty and other contributors.
Cohen worked at the intersection 
of computing and the arts as an 
impressionist painter. During his 
time as a professor, he collaborated 
with the computer science and 
cognitive science departments at 
UCSD to understand what role 
artificial intelligence could play in 
art. 
Cohen had collaborated at 
other universities, such as Stanford 
University’s Artificial Intelligence 
Lab, where he helped develop a 
program called AARON for creating 
art. When it was first developed in 
the 1970s, it could only produce 
black-and-white images of abstract 
art that resembled Cohen’s 
impressionist style, but today it has 
the ability to work with colors and 
representational drawings. 
“The UAG exhibition features 
large-scale works produced 
by Cohen following AARON’s 
computer-generated and enlarged 
designs,” according to UCSD’s 
Visual Arts Department website. 
The exhibit was curated by 
Professor Sheldon Brown of the 
Visual Arts department while the 
series was compiled by Professor 
Tatiana Sizonenko, who received 
her PhD in art history at UCSD and 
currently lectures at UCSD.
Professor Albert Pisano, the 
professor and dean of Jacobs School 
of Engineering, is a big supporter 
of Harold Cohen’s work and legacy. 
He explained his enthusiasm for 
the exhibit as part of his view that 
students should learn from all kinds 
of disciplines and fields.
“I believe that well-rounded 
graduates are the best graduates, ” 
Pisano told the UCSD Guardian. 
“To make sure that UCSD makes 
the best graduates, I support the 
intersection of computation and 
art so that our graduates (both 
engineerings and arts & humanities) 
use both sides, left and right, of Students, Facutly Protest Trump’s Muslim Ban
Hundreds of students and faculty members 
gathered at the Silent Tree in front of 
Geisel Library this afternoon to protest 
President Trump’s executive order that prevents 
travel and immigration from seven majority-
Muslim countries located in the Middle East and 
Northern Africa. After about an hour, students 
and faculty gave speeches before marching to 
Galbraith Hall in Revelle College.
Protesters gathered in front of the entrance to 
Geisel Library, holding signs that read, “I stand 
4 equality” and “such a nasty ban. ” They also 
shouted chants, such as, “No hate, no fear, refugees 
are welcome here” and “no bans, no walls. ”
Known as the “Muslim Ban, ” the executive 
order prevents citizens from Iraq, Syria, Iran, 
Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Y emen from entering 
the United States for at least 90 days. The Muslim 
Ban additionally halts refugee admissions for the 
next four months in order to allow for application 
reviews, which will prioritize Christian refugees 
over Muslims, and blocks the entry of Syrian 
refugees altogether.  
One of the protest leaders, Muir College senior 
Hamoun Dowlatshah, explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that he organized the protest to allow students and faculty to express their vexation and 
and to begin the process of fighting back against 
President Trump’s actions.
“We wanted to show our frustration, ” 
Dowlatshah said. “We wanted to ask people to pay 
attention to issues that are going on around them 
even though it’s not directly affecting them today. 
This is the first week of Trump’s presidency, and 
there is already a lot of issues that are going on. He 
has made so many crazy executive orders that are 
coming from so many places that we don’t know 
which ones to attack. It is important that we care 
about our issues — we go out for our march and 
we go out for other people’s marches. ”
Clarice Soban, a Sixth College junior who 
attended the protest, stated that the country needs 
to act upon the beliefs on which it was founded. 
“I think, fundamentally, we like to think that 
we’re going to be the people who will help when 
we look back at history, and we say that we would 
be there for civil rights, ” Sobon told the Guardian. 
“My thing is that, if we as a nation think we stand 
for something, we have to put our actions where 
are words are. I think that, as a nation, we’re 
fundamentally built on this idea of loving each 
other and being a place of welcome, and if we B y  Lauren  Hol t   news EditorUCSD
Accompanied by “HerStories, ” the V agina Monologues addresses the experiences of women today. See PROTEST , page 3
ART
BY  P r o m i t a  n a n dy
SENIOR STAFF writer
See VAGINA , page 3
Protesters walk off the basketball court after entering RIMAC Arena during halftime of the men’ s basketball game on Spirit Night on Feb. 3. 
Photo by Christian Duarte// UCSD GuardianBY  B e c ca  C h o n g
Senior staff writer
Vagina Monologues Begins Annual Perfor mances
See GALLERY , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
To set up an interview please  
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com   
or call Stefanie at 303-918-6109. Interviews will be held on  
Wednesday, February 22nd  
10:00 AM – 5:00 PM at the 
Career Development Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La J ollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 b urrito & 2 Mexican soda sDine-in onlPresent this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRE S 2/20/17
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Alex Woo, associate opinion editor, resident 
screamer. He is a Patriots fan. So is Donald Trump.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatThe 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin 
Gyatso, will be making two 
speaking appearances at UC San 
Diego for the start of his U.S. tour 
at the end of the academic year, the 
Office of the Chancellor announced 
this afternoon. His Holiness will 
first speak at a public event on June 
16, followed by the keynote address 
at the invitation-only UC San 
Diego All Campus Commencement 
on June 17. 
Khosla praised the exiled 
religious leader in a campuswide 
email, saying the values he 
advocates align with UC San 
Diego’s philosophies.
“We are honored to host His 
Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama at 
UC San Diego and thankful that 
he will share messages of global 
compassion with our graduates 
and their families, as well as 
with a broad public audience, ” 
Khosla wrote. “ A man of peace, 
the Dalai Lama promotes global 
responsibility and service to humanity. These are the ideals we 
aim to convey and instill in our 
students and graduates at UC San 
Diego. ”
The visit is in partnership with 
the The Friends of the Dalai Lama 
Foundation, a nonprofit established 
by Ven. Lama Tenzin Dhonden 
in order to better assist the Dalai 
Lama in spreading his ideas of 
peace and compassion. 
“This shall be a very special 
visit. San Diego loves His Holiness, ” 
Lama Tenzin Dhonden said in 
a statement. “His Holiness will 
come to San Diego to share an 
authentic message of peace and 
human value as the students enter 
their professional lives. The seeds 
of kindness and compassion shall 
sprout through their future work 
and spread these basic values 
throughout the world. Parents and 
members of the community will 
be able to share the celebration 
of graduation while receiving this 
message. ” IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
LAUREN HOLT//  NEWS EDITOR
Dalai Lama to Speak at Commencement Ceremony
Protesters suddenly entered 
and occupied the RIMAC Arena 
during Spirit Night on Friday, Feb. 
3 to demonstrate against several 
issues, including the Dakota Access 
Pipeline. The students came in 
from a side entrance and formed a 
perimeter around the court during 
halftime of the men’s basketball 
game against CSU Monterey Bay. 
The protest lasted for 
approximately 20 minutes, with 
students holding signs that read “U 
[will] C Sanctuary Campuses” and 
“You Have Triton Spirit? So Do We! 
It’s Called Demanding Divestment. ” 
The campus police arrived after 
about 10 minutes, first waiting 
by the edge of the court and 
then approaching the protesters. 
Shortly after arriving, the police 
spoke with the demonstrators, and 
then they left the court and the               
game resumed.
Thurgood Marshall College freshman Kiara Gomez, who 
attended the game, described the 
protest to the UCSD Guardian and 
explained that she agreed with the 
protesters’ message and methods.
“I think that they received 
the attention that both they 
and the issues they spoke out 
about deserved, ” Gomez said. 
“The student body chanted 
alongside them, and it was a good 
opportunity for their demands to 
be seen. ”
The UC San Diego basketball 
team received a technical foul as 
a result of the protesters’ actions. 
The team went on to win the game 
74–41.Protesters Interrupt Spirit Night, UCSD Men’s 
Basketball Team Penalized with Technical Foul
.com/ucsdguardian@ucsdguardianNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
had told them that feminism was 
a cancer, and one of the girls 
backstage agreed that feminism is a 
cancer if you mean that it grows and 
divides and you can’t stop it and it’s 
going to kill [the] patriarchy. ”
Miranda Evans, a third year UC 
Education Abroad Program student 
and also a member of the cast, told 
the Guardian that her favorite part 
of the monologues are the different 
perspectives on femininity.
“There’s so many different 
stories associated with femininity 
and the feminine experience, and 
… it doesn’t all have to be negative 
because humor can be a really good way to tackle these issues, ” she said. 
Revelle College sophomore 
Robert Ramji, who attended 
the show, explained that while 
every other piece was profound 
and moving, the first HerStory, 
which described periods, was too 
aggressive.
“I liked the overall concept 
and implementation of HerStories 
within the Vagina Monologues, but 
the first ‘HerStory’ struck me as 
abrasive  — trying too hard to meet 
the combative brand of feminism 
that is so popular in performance art 
pieces, especially slam poetry, ” Ramji 
told the Guardian. “In the future, I 
hope that they keep the monologues 
more theatrical. Everything else was such phenomenal acting that a piece 
making excessive use of breaking the 
fourth wall and making the audience 
the target of its crusade (which was 
ironic, since likely everyone in the 
audience was a committed feminist) 
was a little lackluster. ”
This spring, the cast of “The 
Vagina Monologues” hopes to host 
“The Mending Monologues” as a 
complement to the original show, 
highlighting the various unspoken 
issues men face. Until then, there 
are two upcoming shows of “The 
Vagina Monologues” on Feb. 9 and 
Feb. 10. draw the line with any group, then 
[the foundation] of our nation just 
falls apart. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
senior Daisy, who declined to use 
her last name, mentioned that the she 
associates the protest with speaking 
out against her family’s immigration 
worries. 
“I’m here because my mom is 
undocumented, and plenty of my 
family is, ” Daisy said. “[Trump’s 
presidency] has become a very real 
fear, and I guess we’ve been in denial 
up until the inauguration, and now it’s 
very real. I feel the best thing is take 
direct action in any way we possibly 
can. ”
For UC San Diego students who 
are studying here on student visas 
from the seven countries listed in 
the executive order, the Muslim Ban 
affects them directly.
Iranian electrical engineering 
Ph.D. candidate Shiva, who preferred 
to only use her first name, told the 
Guardian how the Muslim Ban may 
prevent her mother and father from 
attending her graduation. She has 
not seen either of them in three and 
five years, respectively, because of the 
nature of her single-entry visa. 
“I finally managed to get my 
parents an appointment [at a U.S. 
embassy] for their visas to come for 
my graduation this year, and I just 
got an email [on Saturday] that the 
appointment was cancelled, ” Shiva 
said. “Even further, beyond the 90-day 
period this ban is holding, all the other 
appointments from Iran are cancelled. 
It’s not just a temporary ban — it’s an 
unknown situation. ”
Shiva explained that she has already 
accepted a job offer from Google, 
which may now be compromised by 
the Muslim Ban, and gave a speech to 
that effect at the start of the protest. 
“The statement is so vague, and more and more is coming, ” she added. 
“I’m not sure I can change my status 
even though I signed a job offer from 
student visa to work visa. Y our whole 
future, everything you’ve planned for 
since you were in middle school, is 
suspended. ”
Ali Sarebanha, a structural 
engineering PhD candidate attending 
UCSD on a single-entry visa from 
Iran, stated that although protecting 
the U.S. is important, the Muslim Ban 
is discriminatory.
“Discriminating against people 
from a specific country because they 
are Muslim-majority is not the United 
States we thought it was going to be, ” 
Sarebanha told the Guardian. “They 
should be making sure people are 
OK when they’re coming, that they’re 
good people, but that’s not the reason 
to erratically change some policy and 
then stop everything without thinking 
about the consequences and how it’s 
going to impact peoples’ lives. ”
Today’s demonstration follows a 
petition signed by more than 7,000 
academics and researchers from 
across the country in response to 
the ban, stating that the executive 
order discriminates against people 
on the grounds of Muslim-majority 
national origion, harms the state 
of American higher education and 
posits “undue burden on members 
of our community. ” 
At the time of this publication, 
nearly 500 of the petition’s signatures 
are from faculty representing the 
University of California, and more 
than 40 are from UCSD.
Other protests have taken place 
across the country, particularly in 
airports, since the executive order was 
first signed.
Additional reporting by Nathaniel 
Walker and Quinn Pieper.their brains as they are educated. ”
Professor Jack Greenstein, the 
head of the department, highlighted 
some of the other current exhibits 
on Cohen as well as future events 
that will be a part of “Visual Arts 
@ 50. ”
“ After the Cohen exhibition, there are exhibitions on the border 
as a site and source of creativity, ” 
Greenstein told the Guardian. 
“Next year, there will be two 
exhibitions of works by important 
alumni and in the late winter to 
spring quarter, an exhibition and 
series of performances based on 
the work of founding faculty Allan 
Kaprow, the inventor of Happenings [a type of performance art]. The 
final exhibition, the Agency of Art, 
scheduled for Spring 2018 art, looks 
to the future of the department by 
focusing on how art continues to 
shape the world in which we live. ”▶ VAGINA,  from page 1 Muslim Ban Prompts Protests Across 
Country, Including Protests at AirportsCast Plans to Host the “Mending Monologues,” Geared T oward Men
Greenstein: There Will Be More Exhibitions in the Coming Weeks
▶ GALLERY  from page 1Promit a Nand y  pnandy@ucsd.edu
Rebecca chong  rcchong@ucsd.edu
lauren  hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu▶ PROTEST,  from page 1 
application deadline:
sunday , February 26, 2017  
for PPLICATION QUESTIONS, Contact ASSOCIATEDSTUDENTS@ucsd.eduor the first-ever
uc student advisor!APPLY FOR
UC STUDENT
REGENTRaise your voice, leave your legacy
uc student regent:
 attend all uc board meetings maintain full voting power enjoy waived university fees
uc student advisor: 
attend all UC board meetings further supplement thE single student regent vote.@UCSD
GUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
As a response to President Trump’s 
executive order banning travel from 
select countries, many companies 
spoke out in disapproval of the policy, 
siding with activists and protesters. But 
some companies chose not to speak 
out, including Uber, which received 
immense criticism for its lack of 
action. Despite New Y ork’s JFK Airport 
Taxi strike, which called for a halt on 
ride services in resistance to Trump’s 
immigration ban, Uber continued its 
business. As a result, frustrated Twitter 
users began circulating the hashtag 
“#DeleteUber” as a show of disapproval 
with Uber’s alleged lack of solidarity 
with the strike. Immediately after, 
Uber rejected the idea that it had taken 
financial advantage of the situation 
and promised to provide $3 million in 
protection for drivers affected by the 
immigration ban. However, this came 
too late for the angry protesters.
According to Mobile Action, Lyft 
downloads surpassed those of Uber 
for the first time ever on Sunday, and 
the amount of critical reviews hiked 
tremendously as well. Whether Uber 
originally intended to profit off of the 
striking taxi workers or simply posted 
its notice with unfortunate timing is 
unclear, but the result is there: Uber’s 
approval ratings have taken a toll. 
Although this could be the result of the 
accumulation of Uber’s past unpopular 
decisions, as well as Uber CEO Travis 
Kalanick’s past affiliation with Trump’s 
business advisory board, it is more 
likely that Uber’s failure to take an 
acceptable activist stance marked the last straw for its users. Uber would 
have lost a small opportunity to gain 
profit had it chosen to halt business 
during the strike, but the ramifications 
for doing the opposite brought loss to its 
business, consumer support and image.
On the other side of the spectrum, 
Starbucks’ efforts to display activism 
through “conscious capitalism” 
also received backlash through 
the “#BoycottStarbucks” hashtag. 
After Starbucks announced its plan 
to offer jobs to 10,000 refugees over 
the span of five years, conservative 
critics responded in protest, arguing 
that Starbucks would be prioritizing 
refugees over homeless veterans and 
unemployed citizens in need. By taking 
part in boycotting Starbucks, however, 
critics would be inadvertently taking 
away jobs from Starbucks workers, 
exacerbating the very issue they 
were fighting against. Additionally, 
Starbucks’ initiative is not entirely 
surprising considering its history of 
integrating coffee with activism. In 
2014 for instance, Starbucks decided to 
team up with Arizona State University and subsidize its workers’ college 
degrees. The Starbucks on campus also 
participates in activism, as it donates 
its coffee grounds to UC San Diego’s 
gardening and landscaping programs. 
Despite the considerable criticism for 
Starbucks’ proposal to hire refugees, 
Starbucks supporters argued that 
the boycott represents a minority of 
Starbucks consumers and would not 
heavily impact business.
However, large corporations must 
understand the weight of their actions 
and prioritize consumer support over 
fiscal gain when they seem to clash, 
even though they ultimately come 
hand-in-hand in the long run. With 
millennials gradually comprising 
the majority of the consumer group, 
maintaining consumer approval 
requires that corporations consistently 
uphold their political reputation and 
show support for activist movements 
when necessary. As millennials grow 
more socially aware, major companies 
and businesses that view them as a 
target market should do the same. 
With this in mind, companies with brand identities that do not align with 
millennials’ beliefs will lose support, 
provoking anger and resentment. 
The backlash against both Uber and 
Starbucks shows that the safe spot for 
activism lies in the middle ground. 
One example is Lyft, which, following 
the immigration order announcement, 
immediately condemned the policy 
and donated $1 million to the American 
Civil Liberties Union. Lyft’ s actions — 
unlike Starbucks’ promise to hire 10,000 
refugees — can be taken with ease, all 
while receiving public support.
Businesses have to prioritize 
financial benefit, but as the political 
climate and consumer demands are 
changing, maintaining a solid public 
image entails more than creating the 
best products. Depending on the 
political affiliation and identity of the 
company, companies are expected 
to hold certain roles that identify 
with mainstream activism. This is particularly applicable to Silicon V alley 
companies — Facebook, Google and 
Apple, for instance, have spoken out 
in disapproval of Trump’s Muslim 
immigration ban. Outside of the 
technology realm, many companies 
including Walmart and McDonald’s 
have not publicly condemned Trump’s 
immigration order, yet they have not 
been boycotted or placed under the 
spotlight. As a result, the extent to 
which a company should participate 
in political activism depends on the 
expectations of its consumer base, 
the political environment in which 
it operates and its history of mixing 
politics with business. Consistency in 
a company’ s public image is the key 
to avoiding the controversial spotlight 
and potential financial loss. In times 
of consumer pressure on corporations, 
taking an activist stance through 
moderate initiatives is the prime 
position for large corporations.
Since the 2016 presidential 
election, the movement for a 
Californian secession — started by 
the Y es California organization and 
referred to as “Calexit” — has gathered 
thousands of virtual signatures in hope 
of provoking a referendum that would 
allow it to appear on the 2018 ballots. 
Such a proposal, proponents claim, 
would be beneficial for California and 
chosen by residents of the state. Besides 
the proposal being nearly impossible 
to accomplish, the drastic measures 
the state would have to take, many 
of them involving state and federal 
infrastructure, would pose too much 
complication for it to be beneficial. 
In the past, states have attempted 
to secede from the country, yet none 
have been successful in doing so.When Texas attempted to secede in 2012, the 
Obama administration gave none of 
its support to the cause, demonstrating 
that the White House would probably 
never approve of such an idea. Even 
if Y es California were to receive a 
referendum, which is unlikely to 
happen, it would still have to win 
the support of Californians, many of 
whom find the idea to be too radical. 
More specifically, Republicans, who 
make up approximately 31.5 percent 
of the population, would be the least 
likely to vote in favor of secession 
since it is primarily a message of 
disapproval to President Trump and 
his administration. With such a large 
portion of the state’s population against 
it and not having any guarantees that 
liberals would support the cause, the chances for passing secession through 
legislation are slim.  
While it may be true that California 
holds the sixth largest economy in the 
world and is rich in natural resources 
that generate millions of dollars, there 
is somewhere between a moderate 
to high probability that companies 
located in California would want to 
move out of the state. In fact, major 
companies have already began to 
relocate themselves to cheaper states 
where the minimum wage isn’t as high. 
A secession would only encourage 
more companies to leave due to the 
uncertainty of how it could negatively 
affect them, which would ultimately 
result in the loss of jobs for thousands 
See CALEXIT , page 5Since the election of Donald Trump, the idea of a 
California secession, or “Calexit,” has gained support. 
But would the potential damages to the state’s economy 
and federal infrastructure be worth it?
BY EMILY ZHAO //  CONTRIBUTING WRITER#DeleteUber and #BoycottStarbucks Reveal 
Pressure for Companies to Find Middle 
Ground in Political ActivismCalexit’s Infrastructural 
Complexities Would Make 
Californian Secession 
Another Rushed Decision 
In Response to ElectionOne day after President Donald 
Trump signed the executive order 
to prevent immigration and travel 
into the United States from seven 
Muslim-majority countries, the UC 
Office of the President released a five-
sentence statement condemning the 
order and reiterating international 
and immigrant students’ rightful 
place in the university. Separate, more 
thorough statements by the Dean’s 
Office of Jacobs School of Engineering 
followed, linking resources, clarifying 
the order’s effects, answering 
questions and filling the holes left by 
the UCOP statement. This counsel, 
however, was only sent to a fraction of 
UC San Diego’s student body. Given 
the immediate and severe effect of 
the executive order, UC leadership 
owes it to students and faculty to 
provide concrete guidance rather than     
merely sentiment.
Undoubtedly, students and faculty 
from across the country were affected 
immediately following the executive 
order, which has restricted travel 
and immigration to the U.S. from 
“nonimmigrants and immigrants” 
from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, 
Syria and Yemen. As NPR reports, one 
Iranian student from City University 
of New York was detained for 18 
hours before her return to the U.S. 
from the United Arab Emirates before 
ultimately being sent back to Tehran. 
This predicament falls among many 
others. An Iranian UCSD student 
told the UCSD Guardian that her 
parents may be unable to attend her 
graduation due to the executive order, 
as the appointment she had scheduled 
for them with the U.S. Embassy was 
cancelled the day after the order       
was made.
The Muslim Ban’ s far-reaching 
effects have already targeted many 
students on the basis of religion and 
national origin. It is estimated by the 
Institute of International Education that 
over one million international students 
attend American universities. Roughly 
16,500 students come from the countries 
affected by the executive order.
The ban also posits a specific 
contradiction to University of 
California’s values not mentioned 
in the statement. According to the 
Office of Refugee Resettlement, 60 
percent of Iranian refugees in the 
U.S. live in California, followed by 
13 percent of Iraqi refugees and a 
lower proportion of 10 percent of 
Syrian refugees across the country. 
As a university that seeks to provide 
quality education for the people of 
California, the Muslim ban hits close 
to home for California. And as such, 
during this time of uncertainty, the 
statement sent by UCOP on Sunday should have mentioned protocol in 
the way that other universities did, 
or in the way that UCOP has done in 
the past.
Mark Schlissel, the President 
of University of Michigan, for one, 
released a statement within 24 hours of 
the executive order — two days earlier 
than that of UCOP — which outlined 
that the university will not provide the 
immigration status to anyone “except 
when required by law, ” that campus 
police will not collaborate to enforce 
federal immigration law unless legally 
required and that campus police do 
not inquire about immigration status 
in doing its job. Three months ago, 
following Trump’s election, UCOP 
released a statement on undocumented 
students committing to this much. The 
statement mentioned that a “federal 
effort to create a registry … based 
on protected characteristics, such as 
religion, national origin, race or sexual 
orientation, would be antithetical to 
the … principles of nondiscrimination 
that guide our university. ”
With the Muslim ban, there are 
new questions and yet fewer answers.
The UCSD International Students 
& Programs Office and International 
Faculty & Scholars Office updated 
their current immigration policies 
Monday afternoon, as engineering 
students were notified by Albert P . 
Pisano, Dean of the Jacobs School 
of Engineering. In these updates, the 
ISPO and IFSO recognize the urgent 
need for resources of information and 
support, outlining various answers 
to the plethora of unknowns and 
opening up the office as a “welcoming, 
safe environment to discuss concerns. ” 
Among these are both an FAQ and an 
outline of what the ban can and cannot 
do, as well as contact information for 
the ISPO and the IFSO.
While these statements from 
the ISPO and IFSO are clear and 
crucial for students in need of 
guidance and direction, the problem 
persists that these statements come 
from UCSD, not the University of 
California. Even still, they come 
quietly   through forwarded emails 
to only some segments of the student 
population   and they come belatedly, 
an entire three days after Trump’s 
executive order. The efforts of the 
ISPO and IFSO were well-intentioned 
and considerate, and those of the 
UC should have been forthcoming 
and informative. Instead, students 
received neither. During a time when 
the effects of Trump’s executive order 
immediately began to affect the 
studies and the futures of many at 
the UC campuses, UCOP must move 
beyond inaction. They can do so by 
offering more than condemnation.
The extent to which a company should 
participate in political activism depends 
on the expectations of its consumer base, 
the political environment in which it 
operates and its history of mixing politics 
with business. UCOP Statement on 
Immigration Executive Order 
More Lofty than Instructive
BY GUARDIAN EDITORIAL BOARDBY JENNIFER RICO // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
of Californians.
Although the state holds 47 
billion dollars worth of agriculture 
and produces more than a third of 
the country’s fruits and vegetables, 
California also faces another serious 
problem which would be exacerbated 
by Calexit: water. Although it may 
be true that in these past couple of 
months the state has been able to 
dramatically decrease its prolonged 
drought, Southern California 
continues to  remains in moderate to 
severe conditions. There is also a level 
of uncertainty surrounding whether 
the following years will continue to 
have heavy rainfall or not. If this were 
the case, California would no longer 
be able to rely on some of its most 
dependable water resources, such as 
the Colorado River. W ater is essential 
to California considering that 54 
percent of it is used for agriculture, especially in the summertime when 
the demand for water usually surpasses 
its availability. Without it, California 
would neither be able to generate the 
profit it makes from agriculture nor 
sustain the rest of America who is 
dependent on it.
California’s secession would have 
a negative impact on more than just 
Californians: The rest of the country 
would face the very problems 
California wishes to leave behind. In 
political terms, the Democratic Party 
would suffer tremendously, losing a 
total of 53 member in the House of 
Representatives, 38 Democrats and 14 
Republicans, as well as 2 Democrats 
in the Senate. This sudden shift in 
Congress would happen with major 
friction and would ultimately allow 
Conservatives to gain a firm control of 
the government. California’s secession 
would remove a large portion of cultural 
diversity that California is fortunate to 
have. This diversity is essential to the function of businesses. It strengthens 
their reputation and provides 
flexibility with regards to international 
work benefits. Additionally, the lack 
thereof would inorganically strengthen 
conservative values in America, since 
a majority of minority groups, many 
of whom reside in California, tend to                              
vote democratically. 
Instead of dividing the country 
even further, Y es California should 
reconsider its proposal and promote 
other movements that support 
American values. With the context 
of recent unprecedented changes 
made by the government, such as the 
immigration executive order, Calexit 
would only result in more turmoil. By 
following through, Californians and 
the rest of the country would have 
to pay a high price, and it’s one that 
doesn’t have to be paid.  
JENNIFER RICO     JMRICO@UCSD.EDU
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
▶ CALEXIT , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
The newest members of UCSD’s student body are no doubt 
fascinated by the expansive gym and sports fields around RIMAC, 
the innovative architecture that makes up Earl Warren College’s 
engineering buildings and the colorful appearances of Rady School of 
Management and the Village. But one place often overlooked while 
admiring UCSD’s sprawling campus is the Old Student Center, which 
contains many hidden gems, such as the Food Co-op.
Located next to the G-store and opposite Groundworks Bookstore, it 
is often overlooked as just another point on the map on the way to class. 
However, not so long ago the Student Center held a thriving community of 
united co-ops that everyone knew about and was proud of. The rejuvenation 
of that community feel and the revival of this small but valuable institution 
is what David Morales, proud alumnus of UCSD and the co-ops, hopes to 
achieve starting in 2017.
As you enter the food co-op, it does not disappoint; each wall is painted 
a different color, with bike wheel replicas and other fanciful decorations 
hanging from the ceiling. Purple tables and colorful paintings line the walls, 
and the room is covered with fridges, leading to a small kitchen in the back. 
Overall, the co-op presents a friendly and welcoming ambience. The day I 
visited, it was bustling with volunteers for the mock tuna workshop, one of 
the events put on to promote the Food Co-op. 
With prices lower than anywhere else on campus and even the option 
of free food with weekly coupons, it is a great but unfortunately unknown 
asset to students. The Food Co-op serves as one of the few vegetarian/
vegan dining options on campus. Completely student-funded, it runs on the 
profits from the goods sold and supported with additional donations from 
alumni and occasional auctions and fundraising events like concerts. The 
UCSD Guardian spoke to Morales, who has faithfully volunteered with the 
co-ops since he started college in 1987, even meeting his wife of 23 years 
in doing so.
An avid supporter of veganism, Morales gushed about the importance 
of having healthier options on campus, as he explains the process of making 
gluten and dairy-free mock tuna rolls to the volunteers.
“Y ou eat just a little, and it fills you up. There is so much energy that raw 
food gives you. The recipes are much easier than they look, it’s inexpensive, 
and you see the justice behind [being vegan], ” said Morales. This partially 
inspired his initial interest in joining the co-ops back in 1987. “The space 
was very amenable to my evolving interests at the time: I was becoming 
a vegetarian, I was concerned with food and environmental justice, and 
[liked] the idea of working with peers in a place where we were all going 
to take responsibility for the work and business here, ” Morales explained.
In fact, the vegetarian aspect has attracted a lot of the volunteers to 
the Food Co-op, and it continues to attract even more. “I hope to get the 
immediate interest of people who’ve been in the Food Co-op but have never 
been actual participants in the work here. Now they’ll get actual hands-on 
experience with making products none of them have made before. There are 
various members of the vegetarian club here, members of the other co-ops 
and existing Food Co-op members, and the synthesis of all that is going to 
be a renewed interest in developing the Food Co-op. ” said Morales.
Things at UCSD have definitely changed however, like the increasing 
breadth of options available in terms of food on campus, and the places in 
the Old Student Center have understandably suffered because of that.
“It’s a matter of diversifying it because these days compared to when 
I came here, you have so much more, so many other options on campus 
that didn’t exist back when the co-ops were strong — it’s about developing 
something people can’t get anywhere else and that will actually satisfy them, ” 
explained Morales. “It may take a modification of say, product development. 
For example, Groundworks is a bookstore: Now people get everything on 
Amazon, so it’s a matter of how that situates in an academic environment 
and university campus. ” 
In fact, a recent development with all the co-ops is an evolving 
relationship with Rady School of Management, which aims to strengthen 
accounting practices and business organization at these non-profit, 
student-run enterprises, while providing students minoring with                               
internship opportunities.The co-ops at the Old Student Center are already treading on shaky ground, and as it has recently closed down, the Food Co-op 
is seemingly the next victim taken by the waves of innovation and modernism that are taking over UC San Diego. However, 
David Morales and faithful volunteers continue to fight to prevent the administration from removing these organizations, 
which have many more benefits to offer to students than just what we know them to be on the surface.The Future of the Food Co-op: 
Innovation and De-StigmatizationBy Susanti Sarkar
Senior Staff Writer
SeeFOOD CO-OP , page 7
Illustration by Christina CarlsonFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
In spite of this, the Food Co-op’s popularity has continued to decline 
significantly, sadly resulting in it closing, hopefully temporarily, last week. A 
lack of volunteers has played a major part in this. Recently, the Food Co-op has 
been in transition, negotiating a new lease, as well as being handed over to new 
management. Many, including the volunteers at the mock tuna event, believe that 
the administration at UCSD isn’t helping as much as it should.
“I heard that recently they’ve been lacking in membership, that’s probably 
why I decided to get involved and yeah, I am definitely considering [being a 
regular volunteer here], ” Tiffany Phan, a sophomore from Revelle College, told 
the Guardian. “It’s not really promoted by the university, so it’s very much turned 
out a student-driven space as opposed to a university-endorsed space. I feel like it 
should definitely be promoted by the university and maybe I guess de-stigmatized. ”
The lack of support from the administration is not a completely new problem.
“These places in the ‘90s had a protracted struggle with the administration, and 
basically [made] a compromise between the co-ops and [them], with the co-ops, 
which were were very strong financially, being able to function with a relative 
degree of autonomy and at the same time, being subject to the basic university 
standards, ” said Morales. “ And yet, in order to be able to do that, the co-ops have 
to be able to function as non-profit student organizations, which are cooperatively 
run as businesses. They can’t be treated as standard commercial vendors, which is 
what the university seemingly wants to do right now. ”
Morales additionally believes that the changing times and mindsets of students 
also serve as problem to the existence of the Food Co-op, with the pressure of 
academic rigor taking a toll on important extracurricular activities that students 
should take time to learn from. “ At that period of time [1980s-90s], the university 
was much cheaper than it is now, so it was quite conceivable for people to be here 
for five years, whereas now, what I feel we’re battling is this tendency to want to get 
out sooner than later. So the turnover and keeping the knowledge consistent [with 
the people] at these co-ops is more challenging than it’s ever been, ” Morales said.
However, the Food Co-op is more than just a health-conscious grocery store. 
It also aids in teaching volunteers the importance of team building and learning 
to make their own decisions, and it helped Morales with exactly that during his 
time at UCSD.
“The student co-op movement consists of very unique businesses, and they 
need to continue to exist as such to provide the kind of educational and experiential 
(work experience) that they traditionally have, and that they stand well to do in 
the future, ” explained Morales. “Everything [else] is a highly corporatized culture 
which doesn’t give student employees the amount of decision making, agency 
or power that you have at the coops. With that comes responsibility, and that 
responsibility, in my view, is sometimes the hardest thing for the current students 
to grapple with. But I think the potential is totally there and of course some people 
totally have it. ”
This sentiment is strongly echoed by the co-op volunteers. “This is an 
education space; it’s a place to learn, like cooking skills, managing a cooperative 
business, it’s really a community of shared labor, ” Luka Vallino, a freshman from 
Revelle College and food co-op volunteer, told the Guardian. “Each co-op is part 
of a larger dynamic. We’re here to build kind of a collective individual space 
together, and we don’t have a hierarchal boss structure here, we’re self-organized. ”
Vallino was actually a Groundworks member originally but has been 
instrumental in adding more active volunteers to the food co-op, which shows the 
mutual aid and community feel that all the UCSD co-ops enjoy together.
These values and benefits are a few of the many reasons why the Food Co-op’s 
volunteers and patrons hope it can reopen and continue to offer students what it 
has been offering for decades. Looking back at old photos from his college years 
from helping out at the co-ops, Morales spoke with tears in his eyes of his fond 
memories of his time at UCSD over the years, volunteering for the co-ops and 
making meaningful experiences as well as lasting relationships. His hopes for the 
future of the food co-op serve as inspiration to the current and future members 
of UCSD.
“[I hope] that it will continue to be here for generations to come, that it will 
continue to be an active and appreciated part of UCSD’s campus culture and that 
it may serve as a model for what is possible for businesses beyond the university, ” 
Morales said.
Susanti Sarkar  s5sarkar@ucsd.edu▶ FOOD CO-OP , from page 6Let me paint you a picture — precisely at 3:27 p.m., 
my eyelids grow heavy, the lecture slowly melts into 
a background hum, the attachable desk morphs into 
a pillow, and, oh no, looks like I’ve fallen asleep again in 
Chicano Literature, only to be called out by the professor for 
napping (true story). 
Sound familiar? To you, or maybe the unfortunate soul 
who fell asleep next to you, and is unintentionally using 
your shoulder for neck support? All too often, I’ve seen 
students victimized by the midday snooze (and for your 
voyeurship pleasure, check out “Sleeping Students of UCSD” 
on Instagram, but don’t laugh too hard, that could be you too 
…) or have personally succumbed to the afternoon daze once 
the coffee I brewed earlier that morning wore off.
The answer seems too obvious — simply sleep more at 
night. But as participants in an institution that schedules class 
as early as 8 a.m. and as late as 9 p.m., while operating on a 
scale of “don’t study” to “pull an all nighter, ” it’s much more 
complex. Not to mention, we live in a city with coffee shops 
that stay open even as the sun goes to bed. It has become too 
easy to fall into a trap of caffeinated convenience and 12+ 
hour schedules that perpetuate a need for busyness without 
the efficacy of productivity.
Holistically, sleep isn’t the only answer either. Because of 
how our days are constructed, how and what we eat also plays 
a significant role in our ability to tackle those tasks. Research 
indicates that in this unique university lifestyle, not only do 
students seriously lack sleep, but they are also confined to 
poor dietary options, with health behavior studies indicating 
that a majority of students rarely have more than one serving 
of fruits and vegetables a day, if that. And yes, to some 
capacity, it was my choice to have just coffee for breakfast, but 
it was a lot faster to down a cup of coffee than make some eggs 
and toast before catching the bus coming at 7:45 to make it to 
my 8 a.m.
In a public health study of university students, researchers 
found that determinants like independence, social structures 
and the “built environment, ” resulting from a blending of the 
physical and social environment, are often more influential to 
student nutrition in shaping individual choices. Essentially, 
while we would like to eat more leafy greens, Pine’s salad 
bar tucked away in the corner doesn’t always make that the 
most appealing choice when the pesto shrimp pizza 
is the first thing you see walking in — suggesting 
that even the placement of foods in a dining 
hall draws the eye to convenient, and often    
unhealthier, options. 
And for students who aren’t assigned meal 
plans, Price Center doesn’t always cater to a 
balanced diet. If you’re on a budget, it’s often 
more economic to spend $5 on a cheeseburger 
with fries from Burger King than $7.49 on a 
chicken salad from Santorini’s. Consequently, 
with sleep being compromised by class and diets 
that are often filled with empty calories or quick 
shots of sugar, it’s no wonder we’re losing motivation at 
the expense of metabolism.
Retrospectively, I understand that we, as students, do 
have our own responsibility in taking care of ourselves well. 
But if our options are limited by finances, schedules and 
accessibility, we can only take ownership of so much. And 
this doesn’t solely apply to us attending UC San Diego. On 
a more macro level, for working families 
that come home from a nine-hour shift 
to a “food desert” community, it’s hard to 
shift a locus of control and responsibility 
to solely the individual. 
Truthfully, we, again as students, could be 
taking more action to improve our sleeping and 
dietary patterns, but if programs were put into action that gave 
not only the resources but accessibility to do so, our capacity 
to make healthy choices would be much more effective. So 
collectively, let’s look for points of intervention that give us 
better food for better thought.
FOOD 
FOR 
THOT
by Brittney Lu 
LIFESTYLE EDITORA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
ILLUSTRATION BY LEANNE CHEN/UCSD GUARDIANLIFESTYLE                             T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  6 ,  2 0 1 7  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
I’m going to describe a 
scenario for you. It’s Sunday 
night. Y ou have one, no ... 
TWO midterms on Tuesday and 
you really need to study.  Your 
first instinct might be to reach 
for the styrofoam cup ramen.  It’s 
quick, it’s cheap, it’s convenient.  
It’s also crazy high in sodium, 
full of empty carbs and low in 
any actual dietary value. And 
that’s not even including the 
havoc that the styrofoam cup will 
wreak on the landfill (styrofoam 
takes at least 500 years to 
decompose, if at all.) Now you’re 
possibly feeling crazy guilty 
about all those hundreds or 
maybe even thousands of $0.50 
ramen cups you’ve tossed in the 
trash, as well as stressing about 
how you’ll replace that poverty 
level and low time-consuming 
“food” source.  Well stress 
not, my fellow debt-ridden 
comrade! There is a solution! It’s               
basic cooking.
It seems that people our age 
don’t cook for the perceived 
lack of know how, time, or both. 
Expertise appears to be limited 
to boiling pasta and pairing it 
with the cheapest bottled sauce 
you can find. But I ask you this, 
can you fry or boil an egg? How 
about place a pan in the oven?  
If your answer is no, I highly 
suggest you talk to the most adult 
person you know for life advice 
because you absolutely need it.  
Everyone else, congratulations! 
You can cook to save money, 
eat healthier and reduce your 
environmental impact. Let’s 
start with replacing that ramen.  
Boil some broth, add 
cilantro, your meat of choice, 
sliced onion and chopped garlic 
together in a pot.  Then, add in 
your ramen noodles or replace 
them with zucchini sliced into 
a noodle shape for a healthier 
and cheaper choice (a single 
zucchini is around $0.70 vs. 
a pack of ramen for $2.50). 
Altogether, that meal comes to 
about $4.50. Not bad right? Now 
you might be saying, “that’s still 
more expensive than instant 
noodles.” Well how about this, 
a single egg costs $0.20. Boil it, 
and eat it with some bread and 
a side of spinach. That’s about 
$0.40, cheaper than the ramen and with the same prep time. Or, 
throw some steamed lentils from 
Trader Joe’s into your favorite 
broth with garlic and microwave 
the concoction, $2. These are all 
cheap and quick food choices in 
a jam.
How about snacks and 
sustainability? Much like 
prepackaged meals they create 
a lot of waste but are easy to 
replace. Fruit is the easiest 
go-to, but what if you want a 
crunch? Try nuts! You can buy 
them in bulk at most grocery 
stores. If you want to eat healthy 
but aren’t quite ready to give up 
those potato chips, you can bake 
your own. Slice a potato super 
thin, coat them in oil and salt, 
and bake them. 
Now let’s consider health and 
the environment. Prepackaged 
meals create significant amounts 
of waste and are almost always 
unhealthy. The best way to get 
around that is to simply cook. 
That Digiorno’s pizza isn’t doing 
you or the environment any 
favors. Insead, try flatbread with 
homemade salted and crushed 
tomatoes, some mozzarella 
cheese on top and throw it in the 
oven for a few minutes. While 
ingredients like mozzarella for 
example, often come in plastic 
packaging, it is important to 
note that the ingredient will be 
used for multiple dishes unlike 
the plastic-packaged meals and 
cardboard that was involved 
with the Digiorno’s pizza.  
Cooking also gives the added 
benefit of making surplus for 
those days when you really only 
have time for a microwaved meal 
(just cook for two and freeze the 
extra) as well as allowing you to 
alter the meal to be healthier. 
Not feeling rice? Try chopped 
cauliflower. It cooks easier than 
rice actually, and has a similar 
taste and texture. Mashed 
potatoes don’t sound too great? 
Too much oil and grease in those 
taquitos? Roll your own and 
bake them instead of frying.
When it comes down to it, 
most of those convenient food 
options are really easier and 
healthier to make yourself. 
Just try to be imaginative, and 
you’ll be amazed at what you                 
can create. How to Live 
Your Life, 
by an ESYS 
Major —
Cooking for One
by Nadia Link | Lifestyle Contributing ColumnistEat Like A  
LOCAVORE
“Location, location, location. ” This may no longer be a saying unique to 
realtors but is perhaps on the verge of becoming an ubiquitous trend to 
help contextualize our globalizing society … and stomachs. 
Humans weren’t always accustomed to eating foods that traveled further than 
our commutes to the nearest Ralphs. As hunters and gatherers from the start, we’ve 
strayed — proximally and ideologically — far from our food sources, not knowing 
where our diets come from and how damaging this globalized-food economy can 
often be. 
Let’s take a look at our morning cup of coffee. John Ryan, author of “Stuff: The 
Secret Lives of Everyday Things, ” details the progression of bean to brew. Transported 
from Colombian coffee bean trees to roasting plants in New Orleans, Louisiana this 
little bean has crossed many miles to make it into our mugs. Add in some sugar 
harvested in Florida and cream processed from Washington, and our daily cup of 
joe has already gained enough miles to book another flight. 
And all along our little bean’s journey, externalized costs lead to unsustainable 
habits, creating global ramifications and local consequences.
So what can we do?
Introducing, the locavore movement. Originating around 2007, the locavore 
movement isn’t exactly the newest innovation per se, but has nevertheless, been 
gaining ground and reclaiming space. Focusing on redirecting consumption patterns 
from global agribusiness and monoculture towards locally grown and sourced food, 
the locavore movement is rooted in food sustainability and environmental justice. 
But this idealistic approach to a global phenomena still has much ground to 
cover. Cheaper food options are often highly industrialized and subsidized, making 
organic farming either an antique practice or novel impracticality. This means that 
locally sourced foods are often hard to find and farm-to-table cuisine is more often 
than not difficult to afford. Translation: The average college student is unable to 
maintain a locavore diet, especially if our surrounding environment is not geared 
toward a locavore movement.
So here are a few tips Lifestyle has to help catalyze a movement toward local or 
sustainable eating:
While there is still a long way to go and different layers to tackle, beginning with 
a conscious effort to eat and buy locally could be a helpful step in redirecting the 
location of our nutrition. by Brittney Lu | Lifestyle Editor
Community Gardens
Fair Trade Farmer’s MarketCheck out the community gardens on campus. Roger’s and Ellie’s 
in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt College, respectively, offer fresh, 
in-season fruits and vegetables that are free to the student body. 
With natural compost sites and hydroponically grown vegetation, 
this might be the ecological footprint UC San Diego should be 
taking to help us cultivate a more sustainable diet.
Check out the Farmer’s Market that takes place every Tuesday 
from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. to get fresh produce and support local 
eateries.
Look for places on campus that serve fair trade coffee. While it’s not 
necessarily locally sourced, it ensures that the bean-to-brew process 
is curated through a transparent and equitable international 
process. Art of Espresso and MOM are just a few places on campus 
to get a better bean. 
 
 1
2
2It seems that people our age don’t cook 
for the perceived lack of know how, time, 
or both.10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
by Alicia Lepler | A&E Editorial AssistantMEDDLING  WITH  MET ALAugust Burns Red, Protest the Hero & In Hearts WakeNoise — that’s the first thing you might notice walking in. Friday 
night, fans leisurely filing through the Soma Theater entrance. A 
stand packed up to the brim with band merchandise — lots of spiky 
letters, a few classic tees. And a stripped-down pit before the stage, walls bare 
of decoration and stacked with speakers. The atmosphere was homey, despite 
Soma looking a little dilapidated. 
I’ d never been to a metal concert before. Hell, I didn’t even know what to 
expect. My knowledge began and ended with AC/DC, and I’ d only heard a 
few Metallica songs on the radio, once. Maybe. So, I stood at the edge of the 
room, felt uncomfortable and pretended that I wasn’t, and wondered when 
the show would start. 
The filler music receded, and opening act ‘68 strode onto the stage. Fan 
conversation simmered down to a murmur, and most watched the two-man 
band with interest. Doing double-duty as vocalist and guitarist, Josh Scogin 
strummed a few chords and began. 
To say he was loud would be disingenuous — I felt the sound pulsing 
out, running through the floor and reverberating through my chest. Also, I 
think my ear popped. He screamed into the microphone stand, ran through 
chords at dizzying speeds and completed his set with brutally choreographed 
efficiency. I was duly impressed — I definitely hadn’t seen that level of 
bombast and spectacle at high-school band performances. So, I was certain 
that ‘68 would remain the highlight of my night. 
I was thoroughly mistaken. I’ d heard that the next band — In Hearts 
Wake, an Aussie group returning stateside — had an eco-friendly kind of 
deal going on, with an album called “Skydancer, ” lyrics about the dying earth 
and some earthy imagery. I thought I knew what was up. Instead, I received 
a wailing banshee possessed by a demon, backed by strings from hell. The 
main man stalked forward, crying out to a frenzied crowd, swinging his arms, 
throwing back his head. Then, he produced a balloon alligator, jumped 
onto it and rode over the mosh pit for a few moments before being 
deposited safely back on stage.
By the time Protest the Hero came on, the crowd had 
filled out to a considerable size and squeezed into 
Soma’s modestly sized theater. Some groupie dancers 
made their way into the mosh pit and began 
circling, bouncing and pushing with professional 
disinterest. These guys were a step up, I gathered 
— they got their own hype crew. The main 
singer announced the other members — and 
an actual baby belonging to one of the 
members — and got to playing. Smoke 
leaked from fog machines, obscuring 
just about everything, and strobe lights 
packed along the back wall lit up the 
stage in eerie shades of purple, yellow 
and blue. I couldn’t see a damn thing, 
and around this point I’ d gone a little 
deaf. So, I rode out the performance 
in the hope my hearing would 
improve enough to hear the main 
act.
Thankfully, there were a few 
minutes to relax and stretch 
before technicians began setting 
up for August Burns Red. I’ d 
gotten pretty antsy at this point, 
waiting for the title band. The 
crowd seemed equally agitated, 
a few latecomers piling in. A 
voice soon boomed from the 
speakers, hyping the performers 
who came on. At this point, the 
fans let out restrained applause and 
cheers. They’ d waited three hours and were 
ready. So was I. 
Jake Luhrs stalked across the stage, posed on 
the riser, shouted into the microphone and swung 
it about like a lasso — all with surgical precision. 
Sleeves rolled up, his shirt hanging off him, heavy 
with sweat, Luhrs seemed half-dead with the effort. 
It was fantastic. The listeners bobbed their heads 
along to the beat and mimed drum solos with 
the track. The mosh pit had expanded with a 
few tertiary ones splitting off in other areas. 
Smoke hung in the air, music blared. Then, it 
ended. After a finale set, Luhrs and August Burns 
Red filed offstage, the lights brightened and 
concertgoers made for the exit. 
It was buckets of fun, completely unexpected 
at that. Next time, though, I’m bringing a pair 
of earplugs. BABY’S FIRST METAL 
CONCERT, COMPLETE 
WITH EARLY-ONSET 
TINNITUS. .
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
The first season of “Z: The 
Beginning of Everything” 
chronicles the origin 
of the infamous, dramatic and 
occasionally volatile relationship 
between Zelda Sayre (Christina 
Ricci) and F. Scott Fitzgerald 
(David Hoflin) in a fun, escapist 
bio-drama. The season starts 
with their meeting in 1918; 
she is an 18-year-old Southern 
socialite, and he is a 22-year-
old second lieutenant stationed 
near her town for training. Her 
disillusionment and displeasure 
at the rules of social convention 
in Alabama and his hunger to be 
the next great American novelist 
are the driving force in the first 
three episodes, which lack the 
jauntiness expected of a show 
about America’s first flapper.
It isn’t until the fourth episode, 
when they’re finally married, that the series really begins to 
show all of the glamour expected 
from the Fitzgeralds and their 
well-known party lifestyle. The 
jewelry, clothing, sets and even 
the number of Model Ts that line 
the streets all add to the elegance 
of the show and their lives. 
But as the show progresses, it 
becomes clear that their alluring 
high-class New Y ork City lifestyle 
isn’t something they can afford.
Between the pressure for 
Scott’s next book to be equally 
as successful as the first, the chip 
on his shoulder driving him to 
prove to the elite that he is  the 
“voice of the lost generation” and 
their lack of funds, the Fitzgeralds’ 
relationship faces strain. Their 
explosive arguments aren’t 
contained within the walls of their 
apartment but are seen in public as 
well. Another point of contention between the two is Zelda’s work.
Zelda marries Scott only 
after “This Side of Paradise” 
is published, and as she later 
discovers when reading it, entire 
sections are lifted from her own 
journal and even letters she had 
written to him. During their 
honeymoon period, she was fine 
with his use of her words. But as 
he struggles to write his next book, 
he decides not only to raid her 
journal but to show her journal to 
his editor to prove that he is doing 
work so he can get another advance 
from his editors. However, when 
the editor tells them that Zelda 
should publish her journal as a 
novel, Scott’s fiery reaction ends any 
chance of that coming to fruition. 
Throughout the entire series, 
Scott’s subtle manipulation and 
control of Zelda seeps through, 
showing other reasons for their tumultuous marriage besides the 
factors of finances and alcohol. He 
leaves explicit instructions with 
a friend on what clothes Zelda 
should buy, without regard of her 
personal taste. He refuses to let 
Zelda know about their financial 
situation, keeping up the charade 
that they have money, then yells 
at her for shopping. He berates 
her for things out of her control, 
like the deer that jumps in front of 
their automobile. Hoflin’s portrayal 
of the charming but increasingly 
unhinged writer is mesmerizing 
because he can to talk his editors 
and others into seeing his way and 
supporting his career, then build 
tension in a scene without raising 
his voice. Ricci’s Zelda is just as 
fierce, compassionate, unapologetic 
and complex as the real woman she 
portrays. She slips as effortlessly 
into this character as she has with characters like Wednesday 
Addams, or Maggie Ryan from 
the ill-fated TV show “Pan Am. ”
Scott isn’t portrayed in the 
most flattering light, but he wasn’t 
an angel. Neither of them were. 
Though the episodes are short, 
at only 30 minutes, it is able to 
deliver a more complex portrayal 
of F . Scott Fitzgerald and his wife 
than many high school literature 
books can. It also starts actively 
presenting facts about whether or 
not F . Scott Fitzgerald was a voice 
of the lost generation, or if he was 
a glorified editor. However, that 
is just an option the creators may 
choose to take in later seasons. 
As of now, “Z: The Beginning of 
Everything” is a good piece of fluff.
—   Rachel  novotny  
Senior Staff Writer“Z: The Beginning of Everything” embodies all the glamour of the ‘20s in a 30-minute streamable package.
TV    REVIEW
z:  The  
beginning
 of  ever ything
PHOTO COURTESY OF AMAZON
Creators   Dawn Prestwich, Nicole Yorkin
Starring Christina Ricci, David Hoflin
Release Date   Full Season Available on Amazon PrimeB+  12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
A camera pans, gently 
rotating from a 
television displaying 
the Italian “X-Factor” to a 
couple at a laminated table, 
looking paradoxically intrigued 
and bored. Soft wailing 
accompanying a contestant’s 
refrain of “Hallelujah” hints at 
the presence of a child. There are 
none on-screen. Then, slowly, a 
white robe, a hand and, finally, a 
face, emerge from the edge of the 
frame. Pope Pius XIII (Jude Law, 
blue-eyed and inscrutable as an 
angel or a priest) sits beside them, 
cradling a baby. Surprise. For a 
moment, all three — and infant 
— occupy a single scene. In any 
other series, “X-Factor” included, 
such a sequence would beg 
plausibility and tax the viewer’s 
implicit suspension of belief. We make agreements with the 
shows we watch: Be consistent, 
make emotional sense and we’ll 
keep on trucking. “The Young 
Pope” takes that unspoken rule, 
rams it into a hearse and drives 
the hearse into a lake. The 
word “absurdist” has appeared 
in articles concerning director-
producer Paolo Sorrentino’s 
newest creation with ever-
increasing frequency. It’s true, 
though. No one knows what 
to think about this veritable 
buffet of costuming and 
cinematography, topped off with 
a positively baroque soundtrack 
that mixes modernity with age. 
It’s a baffling, stunning visual 
bouquet so strangely disarming as 
to verge on facsimile of “serious” 
cinema. Then again, how else 
to approach the most daunting topic in the world? Religion isn’t 
easy. Sorrentino spares himself 
the trouble of propriety and 
dives right into Lenny Belardo’s 
ludicrous sojourn as the pope.
The spry and youthful 
archbishop of New Y ork comes 
into the most powerful office of 
Roman Catholicism and causes a 
storm in the process. His colleagues 
and former supporters, Cardinal 
Angelo Voiello (Silvio Orlando) 
and Cardinal Michael Spencer 
(James Cromwell), are dismayed 
by their new pope’s reclusion 
and antiquarianism. The former 
quality is particularly troublesome 
for Sofia (Cecile de France), head 
of marketing for the Holy See 
since the pope refuses any image 
branding and public appearances, 
to her horror. The latter leads to a 
charming anti-homosexual witch-hunt and a hardline anti-abortion 
statement on Belardo’s part. To 
his dismay, the liberal Italian 
prime minister takes issue with 
the changes, threatening to cut 
away the substantial tax monies of 
which the Church is a beneficiary. 
Nonetheless, the pope 
perseveres even in the face of 
public disapproval. He brings 
his ersatz mother, Sister Mary (a 
warm, earnest Diane Keaton), to 
serve as a personal secretary. The 
good sister is surprised to find 
orphan-boy Belardo a preening, 
profoundly uncertain man. 
Other ghosts of the past include 
Cardinal Andrew Dussolier 
(Scott Shepherd), Belardo’s only 
remaining childhood friend, 
and Archbishop Kurtwell (Guy 
Boyd), whose pedophilia becomes 
a searing issue for the papacy. Oh, and there’s a kangaroo, 
which the Australian government 
flies to Belardo as a gift. The 
prime minister of Greenland, 
on the other hand, only drums 
up a popular Italian singer’s CD. 
Installed in his office, the pope 
grapples with potential romance: 
the wife of a Swiss Guard, Esther 
(Ludivine Sagnier), whose pastoral 
charms tempt Belardo off the 
proper path. It’s a heady cocktail 
of scandal, and Belardo dances 
with disaster every episode. “The 
Young Pope” is intoxicating, 
deplorable and, at the oddest 
times, a solemn treatment of a 
curious and singular institution.
—   Alicia  lepler
 A&E Editorial AssistantPaolo Sorrentino’s sizzlin’ hot pope is the youngest, baddest, funniest and least incontinent since 1846. 
TV    REVIEW
The  y oung  pope
(season 1)PHOTO COURTESY OF HBO
Creator   Paolo Sorrentino
Starring Jude Law, Diane Keaton, Silvio Orlando
Runs   Full Season Available on HBO/HBO NOW B+  CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
CHARENEE WADE
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST • $9 UCSD STUDENTTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 6 - FEB 122017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 2.06 WED2.08TUESDAY 2.09  • 8pm
THU2.09
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE2.07
GLOBAL FORUM AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - GREAT 
HALL
The Global Forum is open to all. Its mission 
statement is to heighten our understanding of 
global issues and increase our awareness of the 
world in which we live. The Global Forum is a 
program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through 
speaker series, seminar discussions, student 
panels, film screenings, and informal 
presentations. Contact: tsignaig@ucsd.edu
2pm
ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP 
PROGRAM (AIP) INFO SESSIONS - 
LITERATURE BUILDING, 2ND 
FLOOR, ROOM 210
Are you seeking challenging and interesting 
internship opportunities? The Academic 
Internship Program (AIP) is now accepting Spring 
2017 quarter applications! Through AIP you will: 
Participate in an internship to gain hands-on, 
relevant experience that will compliment your 
academic background. Engage in research 
related to your academic discipline under the 
guidance of UCSD faculty. Obtain academic 
credit. If you wish to earn academic credit for an 
internship you have secured on your own, contact 
AIP to determine if it meets our internship 
guidelines. AIP is open to all Majors. To apply, you 
must have: Minimum 2.5 UC GPA, 90 units 
completed APPLY NOW! Below are dates for our 
info sessions: Contact: aipinfo@ucsd.edu 
858-534-4355
7pm
UCSD MEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS. 
CSUN - RIMAC ARENA
Come support your UCSD Men's Volleyball team 
as they take on CSUN! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu11am
ONE BUTTON STUDIO OPEN HOUSE 
- ONE BUTTON STUDIO, PC EAST
Discover how you can use the studio to practice 
your speeches, presentations, and interviews! 
Check out the green screen and the video recording 
capabilities. During this event, you will stop by and 
record a 30 second video on what leadership 
means to you for 1 iLead stamp. Presented by the 
Peer Educators, Center for Student Involvement. 
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: BLACK 
BEAN CAKES WITH SALSA - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come join us as we make healthy recipes, hosted 
by various guests and get FREE samples! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
FINE CHOCOLATE TASTING - PC 
BALLROOM EAST
Come join us for this FREE, fun, and interactive 
chocolate tasting and let your taste buds be 
surprised! You'll learn about the origins of 
chocolate, how it's made, how to taste chocolate, 
and much more!!! By the end of this, you'll be an 
expert chocolate connoisseur! RSVP here (tickets 
will be available starting on 1/23 @ 10AM) and 
remember to bring your UCSD Student ID: 
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/chocolate-tasting-ti
ckets-30224256565. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: DECORATIVE TILES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Tile your way to success with these decorative 
tiles! Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZ
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
YOUABROAD STUDY ABROAD 
SERIES PRESENTS: 
WOMENABROAD - WOMEN'S 
CENTER
An interactive conversation about women's 
experiences abroad. Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
8pm
MUNA W/ LO MOON  - THE LOFT 
TICKETS ON SALE 1/16! UCSD Students w/ 
Student ID: $5 GA: $10 Doors: 8:00PM Show: 
8:30PM. Via memorable headscarves, premature 
life crises, and three individual obsessions with 
making music, MUNA arrived at their 
self-described “dark pop” of 2016 and a debut 
EP in “Loudspeaker”, which they take full credit 
for. They write and produce everything 
themselves simply because they can.Bolstered 
by their inner gang confidence, they’re fearless 
when it comes to just being MUNA: individualist, 
intelligent and sidesplittingly funny. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
SAT2.11
MOONLIGHT HIKE COWLES 
MOUNTAIN - COWLES 
MOUNTAINA
You will be amazed at just how much the moon 
lights up the mountain on this great local 
adventure. Cowles Mountain is just 20 minutes 
from campus in Mission Trails Park. Hiking 
three miles in the moonlight and taking in the 
panoramic views of the skyline are a great way 
to spend a few hours away from campus. 
Contact: adventure@outbackadventures.com
9am
VOLUNTEER50 SUPER SATURDAY 
- SAN DIEGO FOOD BANK 
WAREHOUSE
Sign up through the google form to join the 
UCSD Volunteer50 Special Saturday Food Bank 
Event, 9 am - noon on Saturday, February 11th. 
Van transport from campus available! 
Location: 9850 Distribution Ave, San Diego, CA 
92121 (15 minutes from campus) We will pack 
boxes of food for seniors, sort donations, and 
bag fresh produce -- all to help alleviate 
hunger in San Diego! After our volunteer shift, 
we will have a tour and a light lunch.  If you 
have any questions, please contact Vanessa 
Pool at vpool@ucsd.edu.  *** YOU MUST ALSO 
SIGN UP with the Food Bank directly or they will 
not allow you to volunteer. Go to 
sdfb.volunteerhub.com and enter the code 
"ucsd50" when you create your account.1:30pm
SLOWSD - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER RECITAL HALL
Violinist Erik Carlson, an assistant professor at 
UC San Diego, will present SlowSD, a festival of 
slow music. The festival will begin at midnight on 
February 9, 2017 and last through February 12. 
Free admission. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu
2pm
HERO SEMINARS - MUIR 
BIOLOGY BUILDING SEMINAR 
ROOM 1103
The Human and Earth Rights Organization is a 
non-profit student organization at UCSD that is 
dedicated to educating the public about social 
and environmental issues. HERO provides 
opportunities for student involvement in the 
community and supports human rights and 
environmental sustainability. 
7pm
THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES & 
HERSTORIES AT UCSD 2017 - PC 
EAST BALLROOM
This show is meant to empower those who are 
OPPRESSED as well as encourage open dialogue 
to learn and think about what it means to be a 
woman! This year's show has the special addition 
of HERSTORIES! This is the first year that UCSD 
VagMo will be showcasing STUDENT-WRITTEN 
pieces in order to fully encompass the 
complexities of INTERSECTIONAL IDENTITIES. 
Tickets are $10 with student ID and $15 without 
at the UCSD Box Office.ARTPOWER PRESENTS
FRI2.10
MOONLIGHT KAYAK MISSION BAY 
- MISSION BAY
Imagine: Mission Bay, calm as glass, paddle 
drips break the reflections of the moon and city 
lights above the bay.This is a San Diego 
experience not to be missed. After a quick drive to 
the bay we will have a short skills session, launch 
for the sunset and enjoy the moonlight paddle. 
Contact: adventure@outbackadventures.com
1pm
UCSD SOFTBALL VS. CAL STATE 
SAN MARCOS - TRITON SOFTBALL 
FIELD
Come support your UCSD Softball team as they 
take on Cal State San Marcos Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
7pm
ZUMBAMANIA - MAIN GYM
Grab your red gear and come join us for a FREE 
90 minute Zumba class at the 6th annual 
Zumbamania, Friday, February 10th from 7-9pm! 
Zumba is a fitness dance phenomenon which 
includes both dance and aerobics elements. 
Choreography incorporates hip-hop, salsa, 
merengue, mambo and more!  Wear red and 
dance to support the nations leading cause of 
death in women - heart disease. Grab your 
valentine or friend for a night of fun and dance 
for a good cause. Also ,giveaways and raffle 
prizes! Together, dressed in RED, we dance.
Contact: ucsdrecmarketing@gmail.com
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Make origami
5. “But ___ art?”
9. Crazy bed cover
14. Hunky-dory
15. Ranch visitor
16. ___ grabs (available)
17. It can be found between the ears
18. “This won’t hurt ___!”
19. Usher’s beat
20. 2002 Olympic gold medal winner
23. Bullring “Bravo!”
24. Othello, for one
25. Falco of “The Sopranos”
27. Aberdeen native
29. Feeder frequenter
31. Facilitate
35. Words before time or loss
36. Speller’s phrase
38. Weather map line
40. “Murder, She Wrote” character
43. Capital of Turkey
44. Level a building in Soho
45. Switch positions?
46. ___ Hashanah
47. Make-up artist?
49. Between birdies and bogeys
51. Fragrant necklaces
53. Native of France
55. Clansman’s topper
58. “Best in Show” actress
63. One of a mythological ennead
65. Sheltered, at sea
66. Sign on
67. Bit of history in a museum
68. Brain tests (Abbr.)
69. Seed envelope
70. Word with box or maker
71. Building block brand
72. Ooze through the cracksDown
1. Bewildered mental states
2. Gumbo veggie
3. Leo’s retreat
4. Energetic person
5. Quality potato
6. “The Stepford Wives” setting
7. “Understood, ” hippie-wise
8. Leash
9. Somewhat
10. Reuters rival
11. In that case
12. Hang in the hammock
13. Genealogy display
21. Windbag’s output
22. Whirling currents
26. Workplace antidiscrimination agcy.
27. Speedy note taker
28. Wine holders
30. Prefix for structure
32. Can’t stand
33. Composer Camille Saint-___
34. Goes wrong
35. Not quite shut
37. Colleague of Ginsburg and Thomas
39. Increase
41. Satirist Mort
42. Ostrich’s output
48. Sharon’s land
50. Greetings from Maui
52. Momentous era
54. Response to “Am not!”
55. Part of a semester
56. Geometry class calculation
57. Soda jerk’s creation
59. Swiss painter Paul
60. Your highness
61. Mule Sal’s canal
62. Sharp bark
64. Persistent personal quirk
 61 905
 62 Sweltering
 63 Black gooFURNITURE
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves are 
glass. Bottom with small door. Superb condi -
tion. Images and contact info on Advertigo 
website. Listing ID: 305156999 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - Entertain 
in style with this lovely wooden high-top 
table and stool set. Made from fir and pine. 
You’ll have the best seat in the house or 
even outside to enjoy snacks beverages or a 
complete meal. Comes with stools and table. 
Pictures and contact details on Advertigo 
website. Listing ID: 305156995 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash Sale 
- Furniture is in attractive condition as it has 
been a month since we bought it. Please 
contact -- if you are interested. Pictures and 
contact details on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star Wars 
and Other Collectors - $25. Too many to list. 
Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if you want. 
Locally, I am near the 78 freeway and College 
Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
PETS
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. I have 
3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m moving to a 
place with limitation of two pets, I need to 
find them a new home! They are all healthy, 
playful and energetic. Litter box- trained. 
There is one girl, the others are boys. If you 
could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not 
a breeder, so they have never been to a vet. 
However, their parents are healthy. Listing ID: 
305139343 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. Super cute 
purebred Holland Lop Baby Bunnies. They 
are 8 weeks old and ready to go. I handle all 
my baby bunnies from birth, so they are all 
tame and sweet. They will be between 3-4 
pounds when full grown. I will show you how 
to handle your new bunny and give you lots 
of helpful information. Please text me at 951-
294-2051. I am located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 
305984269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. Adorable 
Olde English Bulldogge boys born on 06 Aug 
2016. The pups will be ready to go home 
on 01 Oct 2016 at 8 weeks of age. They will 
come with first two sets of vaccines. Please 
be in touch for rehoming fee if interested 
and/or to schedule an appt to visit. Parents 
on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Visit as.ucsd.edu for more information
facebook.com/ascucsdWant to get involved?
OUT OF STATE SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 11:59PM
PHYSICAL SCIENCES SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 11:59PM
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 12:00AM
OFF CAMPUS SENATOR
Application Closes
Wednesday, February 15, 2017 12:00AMOPEN POSITIONS
NATIONAL PERIODIC TABLE DAY
FEBRUARY 7SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
With a few UC San Diego 
women’s basketball alumni in 
the stands showing up for the 
game, like Farrah Shokoor (‘16), 
Stephanie Yano and Miranda Seto 
(‘15), the women’s basketball team 
put on a clinic to dispense of 
Cal State Monterey Bay on Spirit 
Night. The final score, 75–53, was 
representative of a night in which 
UCSD never really worried about 
its opponents making a comeback, 
controlling the flow of the game or 
winning the rebounding battle. 
With junior starting guard Taylor 
Tanita sitting the game out because 
of an injury, the Tritons rolled out 
a starting five of senior forwards 
Beth Mounier and Cassie MacLeod, 
sophomore guard Joleen Yang, 
junior forward Dalayna Sampton 
and junior guard Paige Song. 
Sampton opened the game strong, 
with back-to-back baskets, putting 
the Tritons up by four early into 
the game. On the following play, 
MacLeod blocked a shot attempt 
from Monterey Bay and started a 
fast break that ended with an easy 
layup for Yang. Cal State Monterey 
Bay’s senior guard Victoria Dorn 
had a good start to the game and 
brought it to 7–13 with a tough mid-
range shot before the first timeout 
of the game. However, Dorn was 
held in check for the rest of the 
game, going 3-for-10 from the field. 
Redshirt freshman forward Mikayla 
Williams made sure of that by 
blocking her next shot attempt. The 
guard combination of junior Aubri 
Smith and sophomore Jordana 
Price shouldered the load for the rest of the quarter for the Otters. 
Price contributed by banking in a 
three-pointer to bring Monterey Bay 
within three. The Tritons continued 
to push and finished the quarter up 
21–16.
To open up the second quarter, 
UCSD went back to its starting 
five, except with Williams in place 
of Sampton. On the Otter’s first 
defensive possession, they forced 
an air ball by the Tritons with their 
zone defense. Smith imitated her 
teammate by banking another three 
for the Otters. Yang answered her 
with a go ahead three-pointer, and 
after an outlet pass from Mounier 
to senior guard Haley Anderson for 
two and another three-pointer by 
the Tritons, UCSD pushed the lead 
to seven. Up 30–26 with 4:17 left, 
Williams scored two more points 
on a power move and added an 
and-one on the next possession to 
bring the Tritons to an eight-point 
lead, prompting a timeout with 1:30 
left. MacLeod scored a layup after 
the timeout to bring the Tritons to 
a double-digit lead, but the Otters 
answered. UCSD went into halftime 
with a 37–29 lead.
The Tritons continued to put 
pressure on the Otter defense, 
and Sampton powered her way 
through to another basket. On the 
next possession, Sampton scored 
yet again on a layup. The third 
quarter was the Sampton show as 
she corralled an offensive rebound 
off of Mounier’s miss and, with a 
quick step and dribble, put it in 
the basket. MacLeod contributed 
another basket for the Tritons just 
before the end of the quarter to 
finish the quarter with a 57–40 lead.
“We made it a point to be the aggressor today, ” Sampton told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Our 
team really toned that in and took 
advantage of some of this madness. ”
Although the game seemed out of 
reach for the Otters, they continued 
to fight, with Smith putting in 
another shot from behind the arc. 
After the first timeout of the quarter, 
Williams stole the ball away from 
the Otters and sent it down-court to 
Mounier for the easy basket. UCSD 
continued to score points, and a 
pass from Anderson ended with a 
corner three by sophomore guard 
Marcella Hughes, bringing to score 
to 66–49. With the game under 
control, UCSD let its bench players 
get some game time. Sophomore 
forward Shandiin Armao profited 
from the minutes, scoring an easy 
layup and an and-one to bring the 
lead to over 20 points. With all 
the substitutes in the game, history 
will remember that freshman guard 
Sydney Sharp scored the last basket 
of the night for the Tritons. 
Four Tritons, Mounier, Yang, 
Sampton and Williams scored 
in double figures. The Tritons 
dominated the rebounding battle, 
had more assists, more blocks and 
fewer turnovers. 
With the win, the Tritons 
brought their win streak to 13, and 
despite Saturday’s loss against Cal 
State East Bay, they remain solidly 
on top of the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings at 
13–2, two games clear of Cal State 
East Bay in second.The Triton Train Keeps On Trollin’ — Tritons Improve to 13–2 in the CCAA
The team won its 13th straight game in front of its fans in a 22-point blowout on Spirit Night to help solidify its position atop the CCAA.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
BY  M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e r
Editor in Chief
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.eduVISUALIZATION BY MEGAN CHANG//UCSD GURADIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 6, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After dropping the conference lead to 
Chico State last weekend, the UC San 
Diego men’s basketball team has waited 
for an opportunity to bounce back and what 
better way to do it than in front of 3,783 fans on 
Friday for Spirit Night? The victim, the 3–16 Cal 
State Monterey Bay Otters, who, despite their 
last matchup being a couple of shots way from 
being a blowout, could not do enough to stifle the 
UCSD offense, as the Tritons cruised their way 
to a 74–41 victory, despite some some offensive 
struggles early on.
Out of the gate, the Tritons immediately 
started to click on offense, going on a 7–0 
run that was sparked by three-pointer from 
sophomore guard Christian Oshita. The Otters, 
who looked like deers in headlights during 
their offensive possessions, ended the Triton 
run with a dunk, made possible by some Triton 
miscommunication. 
While the UCSD offense was clicking from 
outside early on, the Otters were determined to 
force the Tritons out of the paint and let them 
settle for long-range shots, hoping the Tritons 
would eventually cool off. Monterey Bay played 
some staunch, physical defense around the 
basket, so for a large chunk of the first half, the 
Otters were actually a couple of well-timed shots 
away from making it a close game. With a 12–0 
point advantage in the paint by the end of the 
half, the Otters succeeded at implementing their 
defensive philosophy. Even though they only 
forced two turnovers, the Otters frequently got 
their hands on the ball and jammed passing lanes, 
forcing the Tritons to make ill-advised decisions 
throughout the half.
Unfortunately for the Otters, UCSD remained 
hot from deep. While the Tritons went an abysmal 
7–25 shooting overall, all seven of their made shots 
came from beyond the arc, converting 53.8 percent 
of their three-point attempts. Coupled with the fact 
the team converted 12 of 14 free throws, UCSD 
did just enough to pull ahead by double digits by 
the end of the half, even if it didn’t necessarily look 
like it.
With senior guard Adam Klie playing limited 
minutes due to two early fouls, senior guard Aleks 
Lipovic kept the team afloat, scoring three of the 
seven first-half threes and forcing his way to the 
line twice, earning four points.
When the second half finally rolled around, 
something — perhaps it was the extended halftime 
that led to an administrative technical foul on 
UCSD (see page 2) — made the Triton offense 
finally start to click. Roughly five minutes into 
the half, sophomore center Chris Hansen laid it 
in for the Tritons’ first two-pointer of the game, 
and just a couple minutes later, Hansen drilled a 
three-pointer and then laid it in again on the next possession to give the Tritons a 21-point lead. 
UCSD’s lead continued to grow as the night 
went on as the Triton offense simply overpowered 
the Otters at every opportunity. Although 
Monterey Bay was a brick wall in the paint during 
the first half, the second half demonstrated what 
happens when an unstoppable object meets a piece 
of tissue paper: The Tritons outscored the Otters 
41–22 and took a 26–11 rebounding advantage in 
the second half. When the dust finally settled, the 
Tritons celebrated a 74–41 victory over the Otters.
“His presence is his huge on the floor especially 
for me — if we have such a great inside presence, ” 
Lipovic said of teammate Chris Hansen in his 
interview with the Athletics Department. “It’s a lot 
easier getting shots. ”
After the win — and the team’s Saturday night 
84–45 victory over Cal State East Bay — the Tritons 
are now 17–5 overall and 12–3 in the conference, 
reclaiming their first-place status in the CCAA. 
Cal State Monterey Bay dropped to 3–17 overall 
and 1–13 in conference. Next up, the Tritons face 
off against Cal State Dominguez Hills on the Toros’ 
court on Thursday, Feb. 9 at 7:30 p.m.
alex wu  adw006@ucsd.edu
UC San Diego rebounds in 
dominant Spirit Night win. How 
‘bout dah.
by Alex Wu // Sports Editor
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE//UCSD GURADIANVISUALIZATION BY MEGAN CHANG//UCSD GURADIANM. Golf
Swim & Dive
M. Tennis
M. Volleyball
W. Basketball2/7
2/8
2/8
2/8
2/98 AM
All Day
3 PM
12 PM
5:30 PMAT Cougar Invitational
AT PCSC Championship
AT Point Loma
VS CSU Northridge
AT CSU Dominguez HillsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES