VOLUME 50, ISSUE 30   MONDA Y , MARCH 13, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Candidates running for A.S. Council and all the 
college councils attended the annual A.S. Candidates 
meeting Thursday at 8 p.m. in Price Center after 
filing for this year’s election closed at noon. The 
elections managers for A.S. Council and the individual 
colleges explained the election bylaws and introduced 
the candidates, which was followed by the candidates 
having their official election pictures taken. 
Over 100 student candidates gathered at the event, 
representing different slates or running independently. 
Although six slates registered to compete for positions on 
A.S Council, John Weng’s Army, Students Determined 
and THRIVE will be the only groups fielding candidates. 
There is only one slate for each college council.
A.S. elections manager Jan Natarajan told the UCSD 
Guardian that due to the unpredictability of elections, 
she cannot say whether candidates will campaign 
cleanly and fairly.
“I think that the nature of elections means that things come up unexpectedly, but I look forward to 
working with this group, ” Natarajan said.
Natarajan also said that she hopes to improve student 
participation.
“On of my main goals is really just increasing voter 
turnout, ” Natarajan stated. “I feel like in the past, having 
been a participant in elections in the past, the people 
who vote are people who are immediately involved in it, 
which I hate because so much of this involves the entire 
campus. I would love to have an unprecedented level of 
voter turnout. ”
 Campaigning commenced as soon as the meeting 
finished and will end on April 8 at 4 p.m. 
Any violations of the election rules by A.S. 
candidates, such as hanging posters in prohibited areas 
or campaigning during lecture, will be brought before the 
A.S. Elections Committee by filing a complaint online. 
The committee, which consists of representatives from 
each college and is headed by the A.S. elections manager, 
will review the complaint in a grievance hearing, render 
a verdict and potentially decide on a sanction. For Sexual 
Harassment 
Policies Violated UC SYSTEM
Of the 124 cases reported 
over a three-year period, nine 
occurred at UC San Diego.
University of California faculty, 
contractors and staff were determined 
to have violated UC sexual harassment 
and violence policies in at least 124 
cases systemwide over the last three 
years, the Daily Californian reported 
in a March 1 article. Of the 124 cases of 
employee sexual misconduct, nine of 
them occurred at UC San Diego.  
Out of all the cases obtained, 25 
percent of those who violated UC 
sexual harassment policy were faculty, 
35 percent of complainants were 
students and seven percent of cases 
included sexual assaults, according to 
the Daily Californian. Approximately 
one third of employees who violated 
UC policy retained their jobs.
The Daily Cal learned of these 
violations through a California Public 
Records Act request that produced 
hundreds of documents dated from 
January 2013 to April 2016, describing 
inappropriate comments, physical 
assault and unwelcome sexual passes. 
Several other news organizations were 
also provided with those documents.
UC spokesperson Claire Doan 
told the Daily Cal that given the 
timeframe in which these cases 
occurred, many would have been 
investigated and resolved prior to 
March 2016 reforms made by the UC 
administration to systemwide sexual 
violence and harassment policies. The 
new measures, among other things, 
established a peer review committee 
with members from all campuses to 
examine all proposed sanctions against 
senior officials and redefined the role 
of employees in reporting harassment.   
“It’s important to note that these 
cases run from January 2013 to April 
2016, so most, if not all, of these cases 
were investigated and adjudicated 
under policies and procedures that are 
no longer in effect, ” Doan said. “We’ve 
made so many drastic and significant 
improvements over the past two and a 
half years … that we are able to provide 
more clarity (and) more fairness … 
when it comes to these investigations. ”
Compared to the nine other UC 
campuses, UCSD investigated and 
resolved the sixth highest number of 
cases in which employees breached 
sexual harassment policy. UC San 
Francisco had the most with 26 cases 
and UC Santa Cruz the fewest with 
five.
One case involved former UCSD 
Athletics Director of Strength and 
Conditioning Rudy Thomas, who 
allegedly touched a female client’s 
breast and genital area during a 
training session. When she expressed 
discomfort and tried to leave, Thomas 
then hugged her and tried to kiss her 
mouth.
Following the release of the 
documents, UCSD administration 
released a statement reiterating the 
university’s commitment to fostering 
a campus free of sexual violence or 
harassment. 
“Like our sister institutions in 
the University of California system, 
UC San Diego takes very seriously 
the importance of ensuring that our Judges Dismisses Koala Lawsuit Against Khosla, A.S.
Federal Judge Jeffrey Miller dismissed 
a lawsuit filed by satirical student 
newspaper The Koala against Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla, A.S. Council President Daniel 
Juarez and A.S. Council Financial Controller 
Justin Pennish last week. The lawsuit, filed in 
June 2016 and carried out by the American 
Civil Liberties Union on behalf of The Koala, 
claimed that A.S. Council’s decision to defund 
printed media on campus violated the First 
Amendment and singled out The Koala because 
of its viewpoint.
The lawsuit sought compensation for the time 
when The Koala didn’t receive funding. It also 
sought to restore funding for print publications 
on the grounds of the 11th Amendment, which 
protects states from being sued by private 
individuals in federal court. 
As for claims of First Amendment violations, 
Miller said the government may restrict speech in 
a limited public forum as long as the restrictions 
are reasonable and not based on viewpoint.
“Here, there is no doubt that the elimination 
of funding for all print publications is viewpoint 
neutral, ” Miller wrote. 
A.S. Council’s decision to defund printed media came after The Koala released a Nov. 2015 
story mocking “safe spaces” on campus, where 
the author used the word “nigger” five times and 
stereotyped Asians, who make up 46 percent of 
the student body at UC San Diego, according to 
a 2016 enrollment report. 
In response to the article, campus 
administrators released a public denouncement 
of The Koala, calling the publication “profoundly 
repugnant, repulsive, attacking and cruel. ” 
Hours later, A.S. Council made the decision to 
defund printed media on campus, with then 
A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasuna telling 
the UCSD Guardian that administrators’ 
denouncement of The Koala played no part in 
the vote. 
Later that month, The Koala created a 
GoFundMe page that was shared on its Facebook 
page with the caption: 
“We’re getting another issue out in the next 
couple of weeks, but we need your help! Support 
The Motherfucking Koala, and help us send a big 
middle finger to the UCSD Administration and 
A.S. [Council]. ”
The university said in a recent statement that 
UCSD is “pleased that the federal district court B y Ma tthew Zamudio  News EditorCAMPUS
Six slates will be running for positions, but only three of them will be fielding candidates. See KOALA , page 3
2017 ELECTIONS
BY  L a u r e n  H o l t
News Editor
BY  L a u r e n  H o l t
news editor
A.S. Holds Candidates Meeting, Campaiging Begins
Students at the Raza Resource Centro celebrate the unveiling of three murals, focused on student activism, Afro-Latino identity and              
indigenous roots. Photo by Esra Elhendy// UCSD Guardian
See ELECTIONS , page 3BEAR GARDEN
Lauren Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.eduPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HEREMUIR             
MUSICAL
MUIR COLLEGE, SHROUDED IN 
CONCRETE AND WOODS ALIKE, 
HIDES MORE THAN A BURSTING 
POPULATION OF FRESHMEN 
AND THE COMMON COLD. ITS 
ANNUAL STAGE PRODUCTION, 
MUIR MUSICAL, IS NOW IS 
PRE-PRODUCTION AND READY 
TO MINGLE WITH AUDIENCES 
CAMPUSWIDE.
UC ENROLLMENT CAP
sa ving  room   for  residents
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
 “ IF WE CAN GET THE MAJORITY  OF 
COUNTRIES  ON THIS PLANET  TO DO 
JUST THAT, THEN ALL WE NEED TO 
DO IS STAND  BACK AND WATCH  WITH 
GLEE AS HE THROWS  ALL HIS TOYS 
OUT OF THE PRAM. AND GOOD LUCK 
TO US ALL!” 
- Rebecca Abbott
LETTER TO THE EDITOR      
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
HEALTH HACKATHON..  .....2
CHANCELLORS..................4
LIFESTYLE..................... 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 16a&E,  P AGE 8
NATIVE AMERICANS ARE ONE OF 
THE MOST UNDERREPRESENTED 
ETHNIC GROUPS IN UCSD’S 
STUDENT BODY, YET THEY ARE 
ONE OF THE MOST HEAVILY 
AFFECTED BY BOTH LOCAL AND 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACTIONS. 
WE SPOKE TO MEMBERS OF 
THIS COMMUNITY TO GAIN AN 
UNDERSTANDING OF THE ISSUES 
AFFECTING THEIR COMMUNITY.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
TRACK AND FIELD
UCSd  hosts  all-uc  challenge
sports,  P age  16NA TIVE   AMERICANS   A T 
UCSD
PHOTO COURTESTY OF LAURA MOREJON-RAMIREZ2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La  JollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 burrito & 2 Mexican sodasDine-in only  Present this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRES 3/20/17YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.org
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Available
WEEKSALESALE
WINTER  2017BIGGEST SALE
OF THE QUARTER!
CHECK US OUT ON LIBRARY WALK FOR HUGE SAVINGSOn the weekend of March 
4 to 5, UC San Diego 
hosted its third annual UC 
Health Hackathon. The hackathon 
began early Saturday morning with 
an opening ceremony where the 
organizers of the event — UCSD 
students Yajur Maker, Ella Stimson, 
Niranjanaa Jeeva and Julie Yip — 
introduced the event and its many 
sponsors. There were speakers from 
the UC San Diego Health System, 
UC Irvine Health System and UC 
Berkeley’s Web Accessibility office 
to explore the themes that the 
hackathon would focus on.
This year, the global health 
track issue was refugee health care. 
There were resources such as this 
guide on refugee health care being 
provided by the organizers and 
representatives from International 
Rescue Committee to help 
participants understand challenges 
of refugee life. 
The first-place team for the 
global health track was “Blueprints 
for Life, ” a project by Team Awesome 
that consisted of Leonardo Chan, 
Sanjay John, Amit Nijjar, Pranav 
Singh and Beverly Yu. Singh 
explained how their project creates 
a space for innovation and solution-
finding to occur in refugee settings.
“Blueprints for Life is a web-based platform that connects refugee 
communities to engineering teams” 
Singh told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Refugee workers can submit 
needs online, allowing engineers to 
easily identify the target of their 
next project. Engineers can then, 
through constant communication 
with the refugee workers, develop 
a blueprint that empowers refugee 
communities to use local resources 
and labor, resulting in a solution 
that is not only implementable but 
also sustainable. ”
In second place for the global 
health track was team MEngineers 
with their project “Salama, ” a project 
aimed at reducing sexual assault 
against women in refugee camps. 
Named after the Swahili word for 
“safe, ” the project was informed by 
the challenges faced by women in 
the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya, 
one of the largest and longest-
standing camps in the world.
Tien, a masters student in 
Bioengineering at UCSD, explained 
how the device operates as both an 
everyday tool and a mechanism for 
crime detection.
“ A big problem is that a lot of 
camps are poorly lit,” Tien told 
the Guardian. “This bracelet can 
be used normally as hands-free 
flashlight [with LEDs]. But when 
you activate the distress signal, it’ll 
sound an alarm, the LED lights 
will start flashing red, and then it’ll spray out a dye and hopefully 
mark the offender and be used as 
incriminating evidence for later on 
during prosecution. ”
In third place for the global 
health track was a project called 
“Rooted in Refugees” by Winjet 
Chou, Ryan Leung, Daniel Truong 
and Alex Tung. Leung, a recent 
graduate from UC Irvine, explained 
how their team used their knowledge 
in nutrition and the skills of their 
electrical engineering members 
to tackle malnutrition in refugee 
camps.
“ After research, we realized that 
space is a huge issue for farming, ” 
Leung told the Guardian. “So we 
thought about … solving that 
issue by growing up instead of out. 
Essentially, it’s a way for people in 
refugee camps to use rudimentary 
materials and recycled bottles to 
create vertical farming systems. ”
Leung described how it could 
create practical and accessible 
ways for refugee camps to target 
micronutrient deficiencies 
commonly seen in developing 
countries.
“The issue with malnutrition is 
that [the typical diet of a refugee] is 
very starch-based and carbohydrate-
rich, which provides energy but 
not the necessary micronutrients 
to prevent conditions like anemia, ” 
Leung said. “While [vertical 
farming] wouldn’t be able to feed everyone, it would provide fresh, 
dark leafy greens for people [that] 
... can’t be transported to camps 
because of the cost and their 
perishable nature. ”
The integrative health systems 
track had three separate focuses: 
patient experience, healthy aging 
and integrative medicine. The 
first-place team, “Fresh Five — Off 
the Wall” , composed of Benyam 
Alemu, Siddhant Ambulkar, Joseph 
Duong, Mihir Sathe and Liam 
Tuohy, created a projected called 
“Incentivizing Patient Mobility 
Through Augmented Reality Art 
Therapy” . 
The second-place team “Team 
name = new Team();” , composed of 
team members Anuj Kavi, Jasmine 
Lai, Matthew Levine and Esther Ryu, 
created the project “Medical Noise 
Cancelling. ” The third-place team 
called “ Au Hearts, ” comprised of 
Tong Jin, Alexander Loh, Alexandra 
Muise, Sahej Randhawa and Bryan 
Yeh, created a project called “Dr. 
Home. ” 
All winning groups will receive 
prize money and entrepreneurial 
resources to further develop their 
ideas and create actionable plans for 
marketing.UCSD Hosts Third Annual UC Health Hackathon CAMPUS
BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g
Senior staff writer
Rebecca Chong  rcchong@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Sangria Sunday. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Rosina Garcia
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditors in Chief
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper, Tina Chen
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi VenkatNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
has dismissed all of The Koala’s 
claims. ” 
“The court found that the [A.S. 
Council] did not violate the First 
Amendment or any other student 
rights, ” the statement reads. “We 
believe that this is the right decision 
and hope that the court’s decision 
brings this case to a close. ” 
David Loy, Legal Director of the 
ACLU Foundation of San Diego and 
Imperial Counties and one of the 
attorneys representing The Koala in 
court, told the Guardian that they 
“strongly disagree” with Miller’s 
decision to dismiss the complaint 
without leave to amend. 
“This case presents fundamental 
issues for freedom of speech and 
press at public universities, and we 
are considering an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth 
Circuit. ” 
The Koala’s latest issue was 
passed out on Library Walk during 
the week of Feb. 20 and contained an 
article criticizing liberals’ purported 
desire to outdo each other when 
it comes to political correctness. 
Specifically, the publication mocked 
an op-ed written by Chair of the 
Black Student Union Refilwe Gqajela 
that calls for the Lumumba-Zapata 
Collective, a group of university 
activists, to change its name because 
of historical implications. The article 
also mocked the author’s name. 
The Guardian is an independent, 
self-sustaining publication that only 
receives funding from the university 
when it buys advertising space in 
the newspaper.students, faculty and staff can learn, 
teach and work without sexual 
harassment or sexual violence, ” the 
press release stated. “Our campus 
community relies on the resources 
of the Office for the Prevention of 
Harassment and Discrimination 
for education about issues of bias, 
harassment and discrimination and to 
assist with prevention and resolution 
of these issues in a fair, timely and 
responsible manner. The materials 
provided by the UC Office of the 
President represent the culmination of 
OPHD investigations and timely action 
by UC San Diego’s Title IX officer and 
appropriate campus leadership. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore Revati Rashingkar told 
the UCSD Guardian that while she is pleased that UCSD has had fewer 
reported cases of sexual harassment 
or violence by employees than many 
other UC campuses, there are likely 
more incidents for which complaints 
were not filed.
“While I’m glad that UCSD is on 
the lower end of the list at number 
six for the number of reported cases 
of sexual harassment [by employees], 
I think the ideal number of cases is 
zero, ” Rashingkar said. “In addition to 
that, the states are only for reported 
cases on each campus, and there 
are individuals who do not report 
incidents for many possible reasons. I 
feel like there are probably more cases 
than actually reported at colleges, and 
I wish those people felt able to report 
sexual harassment. ”▶ KOALA,  from page 1 
▶ HARASSMENT,  from page 1 Loy: This Is a Freedom of  Speech Problem UCSD Affirmed Its Commitment to Creating a 
Campus Sans Sexual Harassment and Violence
college council elections, possible 
bylaw violations are reviewed by 
the respective college elections 
managers. 
The voting itself will take place 
on TritonLink from April 10 to 
April 14, and the election results 
will be announced at 5:30 p.m. at 
Round Table Pizza on the  last day 
of voting. 
Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu▶ ELECTIONS  from page 1 Around 100 Students  
Will Be Competing on 
Slates or Independently 
for Positions on the Col -
lege Councils and A.S.
MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Katherine Uriarte, the 
daughter of Mexican 
immigrants, was the 
first in her family to attend college. 
In high school, she received fives on 
six Advanced Placement exams, had 
a near-perfect GPA, scored extremely 
high on the American College T esting 
and participated in a number of high-
caliber extracurricular activities. Her 
resume would have made her an ideal 
candidate for admission into any of 
the United States’ greatest universities, 
but, as she told the LA Times, she 
was still rejected by UCLA and UC 
Berkeley for Fall 2015 admission. Like 
Uriarte — who now attends Columbia 
University on a full scholarship — 
many bright Californian students have 
expressed concern that their residency 
status is a part of such rejections, 
specifically pointing to the sharply 
rising percentages of out-of-state and 
international students at the University 
of California.
Since 2006, the enrollment of out-
of-state and international students has 
increased by more than 100 percent and 900 percent, respectively. Concern 
over the changes in enrollment 
percentages only intensified after a 
March 2016 state audit showed that, 
in the three years prior to the report’ s 
release (2012–2015), the grades and 
test scores of the thousands of newly 
admitted non-resident students were 
lower than Californian applicants. 
Nearly 16,000 out-of-state students, 
roughly 29 percent of those admitted, 
gained admission spots to UC schools with lower grade point averages 
and test scores than the median of 
admitted California students. Due 
to the higher tuition rates for out-of-
state and international students versus 
California residents—the tuition for 
out-of-state students is currently 
$38,108 versus the in-state tuition 
of $13,400—it’s easy to see why the 
University of California would be 
running this sort of operation. Still, 
milking out-of-state and international students like cash cows is a process 
that has left many in-state students 
considering higher education outside 
of California. In response, California 
lawmakers have forced the UC system 
to cap the amount of admitted out-
of-state and international students, a 
request the system has begrudgingly 
accepted with a proposed 20-percent 
limit system-wide with the exception 
of UC Berkeley, UCLA and UCSD, 
where the percentage is to remain at 
its current respective numbers of 24.4 
percent, 22.8 percent and 22.9 percent. 
The cap will affect the other seven UC 
campuses uniquely. At UC Merced, 
for example, less than one percent of 
enrolled students are non-residents.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
has called the state audit prompting 
the cap “unfounded, ” remarking that 
the accompanied ban will actually 
harm California’s students. Napolitano 
argued that the budget constraint is 
due to a lack of state funding. This is 
a common argument made by the UC 
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See RESIDENCY , page 5In response to criticism that the university favors prospective out-of-state students for financial 
reasons, UC Regents will consider a cap on their enrollment later this week. In order to truly 
make the university more accessible to Californian students, administrators must reevaluate 
funding decisions through a broader scope.
4"7*/(300.'033&4*%&/54
(3&"5&3"$$&44*#*-*5:506$
3&26*3&4.03&5)"/$"1
BY MEGAN MONGES// SENIOR STAFF WRITER
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONLetters  to 
the editor
The UCSD Guardian. The 
Guardian. The G.  This publication 
takes on a variety of names depending 
on the nature of a conversation, but it 
is commonly and simply referred to 
as the Guardian by staff and readers 
alike. Often, the context is clear 
enough to separate us from one of the 
most widely-read publications in the 
U.K., which is, officially, the Guardian. 
But sometimes it’s not. When this 
happens, letters meant for this massive 
London-based source find their 
way to a university newspaper in 
San Diego. Regardless, it is Opinion 
policy at the Guardian to publish 
all suitable letters to the editor we 
receive at opinion@ucsdguardian.org. 
Accordingly, here are the letters to the 
editor we’ve received in recent weeks 
by readers who never got through to 
The Guardian they sought, but the 
Guardian nonetheless.
________________________Internat Ional  edItIon
Dear Editor of the Guardian,
 
As a woman ‘of pensionable age’ 
born in London and brought up 
in Cornwall by right wing ‘British’ 
parents, I’m considered to be 100% 
British. No fear for me of receiving the 
warning letter from the Home Office 
that I might be required to go home to 
where I came from.
 
I recently had the results of a 
DNA analysis (bought as a Christmas 
present). I am informed that I am 9% 
British, 59% Northern European and 
24% Irish. I was completely unaware 
of this until now. My question is, in 
the spirit of fairness, should I perhaps 
swap with an honourable University 
or NHS ‘European national’ worker 
who has been sent ‘the letter’ 
threatening deportation -  someone 
maybe who might even possibly have 
a higher ‘British’ DNA count than 
myself? This could become a trend 
perhaps. Just an idea - those with 
higher British DNA counts get to stay. 
Those with lower are asked to leave.
 
I could then maybe ‘go home’ – 
somewhere. At the very least, could 
I have my European citizenship 
returned to me post Brexit - please?
 
Love and Peace,
Jacquelyn Miles-Windmill
South Wales
23.1.2017
________________________
Dear Sir, 
It is quite a possibility that Donald 
Trump will be the first President of 
United States not to go grey while in 
office.
Jane Adams  
W10   London 
17.2.2017
________________________
Editor,
How should we react to Trump’s 
plans, especially him wanting to 
withdraw from the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change? My advice: 
Keep it simple and ignore him, 
i.e. refuse all dealings with his 
administration, boycott trade with 
the USA, etc., etc. (sorry Mrs. 
May). If we can get the majority of 
countries on this planet to do just 
that, then all we need to do is stand 
back and watch with glee as he 
throws all his toys out of the pram. 
And good luck to us all!
 
Rebecca Abbott
W3 London
101% increase of out-of-state 
student enrollment over 
past 10 years
943% increase of international 
student enrollment over  
past 10 years
data obtained from Student  
Research and Information
After a scandalous reveal of the 
many side jobs of former UC Davis 
Chancellor Linda Katehi, one could 
only assume that her replacement 
would not be involved in such 
controversial activities. It seems, 
however, that that would be asking 
for too much of the Board of Regents. 
Her replacement, Gary May, makes 
over $300,000 a year from sitting on 
outside boards, which raises several 
questions as to where a line should 
be drawn regarding the amount of 
moonlighting a chancellor is allowed 
to do.
Some might claim that, in fact, 
May’s involvement on these boards is 
more acceptable than Katehi’s, citing 
that the companies he is involved with 
do not directly profit off of students. 
After all, it was Katehi’s board 
position at a for-profit university 
that added an ethical dilemma to 
the concern that she may be spread 
too thin. This argument in favor of 
outside involvement being acceptable 
as long as it remains separate from 
university affairs, however, disregards the potential for any given company 
or operation’s success to eventually 
impede or otherwise affect the 
University of California. Ultimately, 
any position taken alongside serving 
as chancellor poses the potential for a 
conflict of interest.
After last year’s fiasco, the 
Board of Regents attempted to 
limit the number of boards that UC 
administrators could belong to and 
set forth other such regulations. 
These measures include limiting the 
number of outside boards to two and 
requiring Regent approval for any new 
roles the administrators undertake, 
but despite passing these regulations, 
there was no solid condemnation of 
UC chancellors’ outside positions. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
went as far as to state that these 
involvements, when done right, can 
be beneficial to the university. Her 
approval of such involvement should 
come as no surprise as she has served 
on several boards — namely, the 
previously named American Legacy 
Foundation— which she defended by 
claiming that her lack of compensation 
demonstrated her commitment to the 
university. Failing to acknowledge the 
detriments to proper performance of a chancellor’s role that could be 
brought by positions outside serving 
as chancellor is harmful, as it makes 
these regulations seem like a reaction 
to public upheaval, rather than a 
legitimate concern for the university’s 
well-being.
Our own UC chancellor has seven 
outside positions, on which which he 
claims to spend less than two days 
worth of time per year. Though he 
describes his involvement in them 
as minimal, it certainly bears the 
question, how much is too much? 
According to the new UC Regents 
regulation, the fact that only two 
of those seven positions are on a 
board means that it is not a cause for 
concern. That fact alone should reveal 
what is wrong with the regulations 
that were supposed to fix what was 
amiss. Many who serve as UC Regents 
— the entity in charge of determining 
limits on outside involvement — 
also belong to outside boards and 
private enterprises, making their 
level of objectivity dubious at best. 
The current Chair of the Regents 
Board, Monica Lozano, serves as 
independent director for Bank of 
America and director for the Target 
Corporation. It’s worth considering whether or not this poses a conflict 
of interest in the very function of the 
Board to decide upon regulation.
Issues with the appointment of 
May raise the larger question of what 
makes for an effective chancellor. The 
head of a research institution with 
35,821 students has no need for a 
second, third, much less seventh job, 
and the lack of transparency in what 
UC administrators make — and what 
they are involved with — leaves more 
questions than answers. If one were to 
ask any given undergraduate student 
what the chancellor does, or maybe 
even what he looks like, the amount 
of blank stares and blanket statements 
would probably astonish anyone who 
doesn’t know that UC administrators 
are allowed to have so many side-
gigs. Perhaps instead of looking for 
other jobs and positions of influence 
in private and even not-for profit 
boards, the chancellors of the UC 
system should focus on getting to 
know the population of students that 
pay their salary and their homes and 
the myriad of perks they receive for 
their position.By Maintaining Outside Board Positions, Serving 
Chancellors Downgrade University Students as Priority
BY  ADRIANA BARRIOS //
 CONTRIBUTING WRITER
ADRIANA BARRIOS   a7barrio @ucsd .eduEDUReaders can contactOPINIONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeYOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.edusystem, but it’ s difficult to accept when 
considering where money is being 
distributed elsewhere in the university. 
Pay for UC executives continues to rise 
while tuition costs increase. At their last 
pay raise, 15 UC executives— including 
chancellors and investment officers—
all received three-percent salary 
increases. UCSD’s own Chancellor, 
Pradeep Khosla, lives in a $10-million 
mansion paid for by endowment funds 
and university donations in addition to 
his $430,000 salary as chancellor.
The cap, which has been proposed 
to the Regents after state lawmakers 
threatened to withhold $18.5 million 
in state funding, is a step forward. 
However, it alone will not necessarily 
make the UC system more accessible 
to Californian students academically 
or financially. It seems as if, like other 
controversial matters, the UC Board 
of Regents is merely putting a bandage over a complex issue. Coupled with the 
fact that the UC system only agreed to 
this limit at the threat of state funding 
shows that the UC Regents do not care 
about California students’ education 
but rather, making profit.
There is no easy solution to gear the 
UC system more toward California’ s 
students. It’s simple to say that the 
proposed out-of-state cap will solve 
all of the problems associated with the 
UC system, funding and out-of-state 
students. The argument has been made 
that the UC system is accepting more 
out-of-state and international students 
to collect higher tuition to offset a 
lack of state funding. According to 
UC data, state funding accounted for 
24 percent of UC revenue in 2000, 
but only accounted for 10 percent of 
revenue in 2014. These numbers need 
to be considered in terms of the entire 
California state budget, which—due 
to the economic recession—cut its 
general fund to 10 percent on higher 
education in California, where it had been around 25 forty years ago. Fixing 
such a complex issue is not a simple 
task. Raising taxes will not be approved 
by citizens, and a reappropriation of 
funds must be met with approval by 
the California state assembly. Although 
it may not be easy, action must be done 
by the state in conjunction with the UC 
system to create a solution for public 
funding. On University of California’s 
side, a serious look at spending 
costs must be made. UC executives, 
including chancellors, need to examine 
their own moralities; can they really 
justify accepting salary increases at 
the expense of raising tuition costs? 
There is a serious problem when school 
officials believe they can comprise 
university standards to make money 
off of non-Californian students while 
simultaneously hampering California 
students’ chances to attend a university 
created for accessible education.
MEGAN MONGES   MMONGES@UCSD.EDUReaders can contact▶ RESIDENCY , from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
The0 .43%
Native Americans at UCSD
Contemporary instances of  dispossession, such as the conflict regarding the Dakota Access Pipeline, have brought Native Americans into 
the political spotlight. Yet, there are injustices against Native Americans involving UC San Diego and its neighboring areas that go largely 
unnoticed. The UCSD Guardian sat down with UCSD’s Native American Student Alliance to discuss its activism and issues of  Native 
American rights both on and off campus.
By Jade Wong // Contributing Writer
Native Americans are among the most underrepresented ethnic groups 
at UC San Diego. Out of the 28,127 undergraduate students enrolled 
during Fall Quarter of 2016, only 121 students identified as Native 
American. 
However, the UCSD Native American community’s small numbers in 
no way detract from its passion for change. UCSD’s Native American Student 
Alliance, a student organization comprised of around a dozen undergraduates 
and graduates, works to educate the UCSD community on Native American 
issues and serves the Native American community both at UCSD and beyond.
     Though the organization has dropped out of existence about four times since 
it was first founded 30 years ago, NASA experienced an exciting surge in growth 
this past year. 
     The year 2016 marked the grand opening of the Inter-Tribal Resource Center 
in Price Center West, and the welcoming of its inaugural director, Elena      Hood. 
One of UCSD’s several campus community centers, the ITRC serves as a space 
for Native American students and faculty and provides the Native American 
community with resources for educational opportunities.
     NASA ’s ongoing endeavors also include direct involvement in UCSD’s 
academics. The organization is striving to make progressive changes to UCSD’s 
staff and curriculum to inform UCSD students about Native American culture.  
     “Since last year, NASA ’s been working with the ethnic studies department 
and other administrators to hire Native American faculty and create a Native 
American studies minor, ” said Brody Patterson, a Revelle College sophomore 
and chair of NASA. 
     “Hopefully, if everything goes well, it should be a minor here at UCSD starting 
in 2018. ”
     Another one of NASA ’s recent projects is centered on positively impacting 
the local community. In partnership with the Student Promoted Access Center 
for Education and Service, members of NASA have been making trips to local 
schools to speak to Native American students.
     “So far, we’ve been to the Viejas Reservation and native Hawaiian communities, 
and we’ve got some other future trips planned, ” Patterson said. “We’ve been 
working with the students, mostly middle school to early high school, and just 
getting them informed about college and trying to encourage them to pursue 
higher education. ”
     To further educate both the UCSD and local communities on Native American 
issues, NASA took part in the Native Symposium, which took place from 
March 1 to March 3. Headed by Professor Justin de Leon of the ethnic studies 
department and sponsored in part by the ITRC, the three-day event consisted 
of panel discussions exploring challenges that Native Americans face today. The 
various panelists, who ranged from UCSD student leaders to Shoshone poet 
Tanaya Winder, spoke on representation in media, struggles of Native American 
women, dispossession and coalition building across various communities.
     An opportunity for members of both the local and UCSD Native American 
communities to express themselves, the symposium brought awareness to recent 
issues affecting San Diego County’s tribes. A recurring problem for Native 
American communities has been government projects built on sacred land. 
     One such issue, which was resolved in November of last year, was the building of a garbage site at Gregory Canyon in North County. The landfill would not 
only have been built on top of a sacred site, but also would have contaminated 
the drinking water for the Pala Band of Mission Indians. After protests and court 
cases delayed the construction of the landfill for 25 years, the Pala Tribe finally 
secured victory by buying part of the land meant for the project.
     Another similar instance of dispossession involves the Kumeyaay Tribe 
and unfortunately has yet to be resolved. The tribe is currently protesting the 
construction of a Navy SEAL training center south of Silver Strand State Beach, 
which would intrude upon a sacred Kumeyaay burial ground. Thousand-year-
old Kumeyaay remains still lie beneath the proposed construction site, making 
the construction of the Navy base a desecration of important Kumeyaay history 
and culture.
     “Locally, we’ve been trying to bring awareness to these issues and connecting 
those types of things to bigger issues like the Dakota Access Pipeline, ” Patterson 
said in regard to the issues at Gregory Canyon and Silver Strand. “We want to 
show that we have issues going on in the local San Diego community. Students 
and faculty, both native and non-native, should be supporting the local 
communities and trying to help them maintain their tribal sovereignty. ”
     On a larger scale, NASA has also been involved in taking action against the 
Dakota Access Pipeline. Before the Department of the Army announced that 
it would reroute the pipeline in December of last year, NASA was preparing to 
send supplies over to the protestors and was even considering taking a trip to 
the reservation.
     Since then, NASA has refocused its activism. With the help of A.S. Council, 
NASA has been calling for the University of California to stop facilitating the 
construction of the pipeline by divesting from companies involved in DAPL. 
     “We’ve been working with UC administrators to pull their investments from 
companies invested in DAPL, focusing on getting the UC [system] to divest from 
Energy Transfer Partners and the other companies that are directly working on 
the pipeline, ” Patterson explained. “The most tangible thing we can do from a 
college student perspective is to get the administration to take away the money 
they’re investing in the pipeline. ”
     As for the protest against DAPL that interrupted the Spirit Night basketball 
game in February, Patterson claimed that, while members of the Native 
American community at UCSD were involved, NASA itself did not play a role 
in the protest.
     “I would say for the people who were involved in the protest, and also other 
marginalized communities, that we just want our issues to be noticed by the 
university, ” Patterson continued. “We want the university to think about what’s 
more important — business and investing in the pipeline, or students here who 
are really offended by these issues. ” 
     Patterson stressed that, for the Native American community, attention from 
both UCSD administrators and students is necessary for these issues within 
their community to be resolved. 
     Professor Ross Frank of the ethnic studies department further supported 
Patterson’s assertion. Having joined UCSD as a professor in 1992, Frank 
researches Native American history and culture, the majority of his work focusing 
on cultural change among Europeans and Natives Americans. He agrees that the 
SeeNATIVE AMERICANS , page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
As a professor his passion for art is evident 
through his lectures, delivered with a loud 
booming voice which resonates throughout 
the lecture hall. His dedication and genuine affection 
for performance art is contagious and leaves students 
with a longing to understand more. 
     He embraces the uneasiness and apprehension 
that often comes with discussing more existential 
topics like the nature of existence or what it means 
to be human. More than anything, Professor Ricardo 
Dominguez asks questions, forcing his students to 
think for themselves and ponder the nature of their 
own lives.
     Born in 1959, Dominguez came of age in the sixties 
and seventies, a turbulent era for global politics. 
Watching constant televised footage of the war in 
Vietnam, Dominguez was intrigued by the way in 
which his childhood friends reacted to both real events 
on TV and simulated ones, seemingly unable to detect 
the difference. 
     “For them watching the Vietnam war on TV was 
like watching some comedy show. I remember taking 
them to a double feature of Godzilla and they became 
sick and traumatized, not realizing that Godzilla was 
constructed, not real,” Dominguez said. “Seeing how 
these kinds of things were constructed, I became 
interested in visual effects and narrative,” Dominguez 
told the Guardian. 
     Dominguez also traced his fascination with art and 
performance to growing up in Las Vegas. Gambling 
culture, of course, was an ever-present force in Las 
Vegas, and Dominguez found himself surrounded by 
disillusioned casino-goers searching for escape in a 
variety of simulated environments.
     “I think I gained a sense of what constitutes different 
forms of simulation … The sense of traversing fantasy 
which is embedded in American culture ...You can go 
to a casino that simulates being in Paris. You can go to 
a casino that recreates the desert inn as it was in 1965,” 
he said.
     A s  h e  g r e w  i n t o  a  t e e n a g e r  a n d  y o u n g  a d u l t  i n  
the ‘70s and ‘80s, Dominguez became increasingly 
disillusioned with the political system, spurring his 
interest in activism. Reaching across his desk, he 
presented his arm, pointing to a triangle shaped scar 
on his arm.
     “I still have a burn from when I was a kid. It’s a 
triangle of an iron that my mother dropped on me when they announced JFK was killed.” Dominguez 
went on to recall, “I was only about 11 or 12, but I 
certainly realized that Nixon and the Watergate 
incident were  f---ed up. I thought, ‘Do you people 
really want to vote for him? This seems to be a really 
bad guy. ’”
     He also remembers Reagan and his lack of action in 
response to the AIDS crisis, crediting the little action 
his administration did take to a bunch of “young 
queers” who fought its recognition. Dominguez 
himself worked with AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power 
for many years, which were some of his formative 
experience in protest.
     Dominguez has made his name in the art world for 
a signature blend of his two passions, art and activism, 
which he dubs “ Artivism. ” Though he also practices 
“in-the-streets” activism, he believes there is a great 
distinction between that brand of protest and Artivism.
     “ An activist’s job is one that is terrifically difficult,” 
Dominguez said. “ An activist may think in [terms of] 
10 years … but people are in jail right now. They can’t 
think about a gesture that is 10 years in development. ”
     Dominguez himself prefers the slower approach to 
activism, a crucial component of Artivism.
     “The artistic practice, ” Dominguez explained, “is a 
slower form of contemplation … My practice can have 
activist outcomes, like the Transborder Immigrant 
Tool. But, it was built over a long period of time. The 
university tried to de-tenure me. Congress said we 
were traitors to the nation. ”
     The “Transborder Immigrant Tool” he referred to 
was a piece of artistic protest he introduced almost 10 
years ago. He placed mobile phones containing GPS 
locations of water and food packages in the California 
desert to aid Mexican Immigrants attempting to cross 
the border. The standout aspect of this tool, however, 
was the fact that the phones contained experimental 
poetry.
     “ Activism functions around the politics of the 
answer, whereas art functions on the politics of the 
question,” Dominguez reflected. “What is the nature of 
technology? What is the nature of art?”
     Because Dominguez was an artist and a poet, his work 
blurred the lines between protest and art. Different 
agencies such as Congress and the FBI attempted to 
make a distinction between cyber war, cyber crime, 
cyber terrorism and “electronic civil disobedience,” as 
he calls the Transborder Immigrant Tool. The trouble 
came when they were unable to classify Dominguez’ 
project into one of these categories.
     “We disturbed the conditions by which the utilitarian 
laws of cyber crime were being defined, and said, ‘No, 
there’s this other territory, ” Dominguez said.
     Due to the implementation of art and creativity 
into Dominguez’ work, his projects have enjoyed 
enduring success. As he explains it, a vital component 
to creating art and fostering creativity is critical thinking. Dominguez finds that critical thinking of 
the type practiced by the politically active is a skill 
that can only be acquired through the study of arts and 
humanities.
     “The history of arts and humanities was established 
around this paradigm of critical thinking as well as 
experimentation,” Dominguez said. On the topic of 
other fields, Dominguez believes that “some have the 
ability to say, some have the authority to show and 
others have the authority to do,” concluding that in 
humanities, these authorities are brought together 
through critical thinking.
      The current social climate is extremely divided, 
especially under the the Donald Trump presidency. 
However, Dominguez finds hope in the recent spate of 
protests. 
     “You guys are going to have to live with these 
consequences and feel the effects of them for a long 
time. It’s always been the radicalism of the community 
that has had a vision and often willing to risk for that 
vision. ”
     A b o u t  a  m o n t h  a g o ,  h e  p a r t i c i p a t e d  i n  t h e  a n t i -
fascist protest at UCSD. Sharing some advice about 
activism, he commented, “I think, to a certain degree, 
protest comes naturally. The real elements of crowds 
and power is durational: How do you sustain this 
question or critique over a long period of time?”
     Still, Dominguez believes that some traditional 
forms of protest can aid in sustaining the resistance, 
such as the “anarchist five,” in which a small group of 
five people all talk with each other and each member 
share their ideas with another group of five. He also 
believes that technology can augment these traditional 
forms.
     “You have social media now … you can use Tinder 
or Facebook for political hookups,” Dominguez 
commented.
     He insists that, to effectively aid activism, it is best 
to stick to your impulses and fields of interest.
     “I would ask myself, what impulse do I have in 
what direction? As a writer? As a journalist?” advised 
Dominguez. “You don’t always have to activate your 
protest and work just through protesting in the street. 
One layer is just talking to your friends about what’s 
happening, another is writing about it. ”
     Through all of his previous work in the artistic 
and political fields, Dominguez has achieved results 
through sheer drive, creativity and critical thinking. 
He concluded by discussing the most important 
function of activist art.
     “The artistic practices focused on asking critical 
social questions … and power has a great fear of the 
politics of the question, ” he said.UCSD community can foster progress for Native 
Americans through a strengthened relationship 
with the Native American community.
     “There’s not a lot of native faculty or students, 
so it takes everything to have good relationships 
with the community, ” Frank said. “We need to 
have a visible Native community on campus to 
have a good relationship with the community off 
campus. ”
     A more visible Native American community 
requires a more substantial population of Native 
Americans on campus. As previously stated, Native 
American students only make up a tiny percentage 
of the undergraduate population. 
     “UCSD needs to build on the undergraduate 
body of Native American students and hire 
Native faculty, and also provide curriculum on 
campus that will give students academic interest 
in Native [American] studies, ” Frank said. “This, 
along with the recruitment and retention that the 
ITRC provides, will sustain and build the Native [American] community. ”
     Patterson further believes that, before these 
pressing issues of dispossession within the Native 
American community can be resolved, UCSD 
students and faculty need to acknowledge the role 
that Native Americans played in the history of 
their university. 
     “Students and the university itself need to 
acknowledge more often that we are on ancestral 
Kumeyaay lands that were actually stolen from 
these people. That’s the most important thing 
because, without that, we can’t even acknowledge 
a Native presence on this campus, ” said Patterson.
     In terms of visibility, the future does seem 
promising for the Native American community at 
UCSD. The aforementioned advancements within 
NASA and local Native American communities, 
coupled with the increased social concern for 
indigenous rights brought on by the DAPL crisis, 
have heightened Native Americans’ presence.
     The mood was heavy on March 3, the last night of the Native Symposium, as members and allies of 
the Native American community gathered together 
in the Communidad Room, listening earnestly to 
UCSD’s Native American leaders discussing their 
experiences and concerns. One such speaker was 
Hood who, in addition to directing the ITRC, is 
a member of the Absentee Shawnee Tribe and a 
doctoral student in UCSD’s educational studies 
program researching Native American youth. 
      Before a solemn crowd of people concerned 
enough about Native American rights to gather 
together on a Friday night, Hood expressed her 
hopefulness for increased visibility and justice for 
Native American people as she said, through tears, 
“We’re still here, and we’re not going anywhere. ”from NATIVE AMERICANS , page 6
Jade Wong  jknowshi@ucsd.edu
Harrison Lee  hhl032@ucsd.edu
BEHIND THE LECTERN
By Harrison Lee / / Staff Writer
Photo Courtesy of Ricardo DominguezRicardo Dominguez – The Art of the QuestionA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Each year, Muir Musical starts from scratch: a new director, a new show and another set of auditions. Work begins early in the school 
year, with tryouts in Fall Quarter and practice following soon afterward. With pieces like “In the Heights” and “Legally Blonde, ” 
Muir Musical always delivers well-made undergraduate plays with a professional polish. So, what does it take to ensure the smooth 
transition of such a mammoth operation from script to stage? We sat down with the cast and crew of “Spring Awakening” to hash out the 
particulars of a full-scale, Broadway-style musical production.
A little backstory: “Spring Awakening” was originally conceived of and written by Frank Wedekind in 1891 and summarily banned soon 
after for obscenity — namely, a frank and brutally candid approach to adolescent sexuality, a contravention of a rigidly oppressive 19th-cen -
tury German society. After a hundred years of tepid, heavily censored productions, “Spring Awakening” returned to life as an off-Broadway 
alt-rock musical, rescued from the doldrums of historical obscurity by a writer-composer duo comprising Steven Sater and Duncan Sheik. 
Initially, current director Nicole McEntee was uncertain of the direction she wanted to take Muir Musical and whether the graphic and 
challenging play was a suitable choice. “I thought, should I do ‘Spring Awakening?’ That very explicit, raunchy show? How would I do that? 
People would be so shocked, ” she said.
Nonetheless, Nicole held fast and floated the idea to Muir Dean of Student Affairs Patty Mahaffey and received the go-ahead soon after. 
All that remained was to chart a visual and aesthetic direction.
“ About two years ago, I saw Deaf West’s production of ‘Spring Awakening’ — they are a theater that incorporates sign language in their 
productions — and it was incredible, ” Mahaffey said.
She said, “It really physicalized the emotions that the characters were experiencing in a way ‘Spring Awakening’ hadn’t done before … I 
wanted a different take on it … so I incorporated a dance ensemble, which wasn’t in the original Broadway production. ”
Here, McEntee collaborated heavily with choreographer Michelle Prieto and musical director Cedric Enzo Agatep to coordinate sound 
and dance and to ensure a successful translation from the former to the latter. 
“ All the songs in ‘Spring Awakening’ don’t further the plot, but they serve as internal monologue … I think it helps to have the assistance 
of interpretative dance, ” she told the UCSD Guardian. 
We spoke with Andres Lagang, a dance-crew member and shadow to the principal character Melchior. His role primarily centers around 
enacting and ventriloquizing Melchior’s actions during musical soliloquies performed by Andrew Paiva. Andres Lagang’s choreography 
echoes Melchior’s charismatic derring-do and refusal to follow social mores.“It’s very modern and contemporary … a lot of what would 
represent teenage angst. ”
Opposite Paiva, cast member Austyn Myers plays Moritz, a timid classmate consumed by fears of failure. Myers recounted how he came 
by Muir Musical.
 “I saw last year’s production of ‘In the Heights, ’ and I was really impressed, so when I transferred [to UC San Diego], I immediately 
joined. ” Myers’ experience isn’t unusual — as a student-run production, Muir Musical relies on an annual influx of new participants to fill 
in for graduating or leaving members. 
Natalie Lydick, ensemble-member and Muir Musical newcomer recounted, “I always wanted to be part of a theater production, and I 
had never done that before, so I decided to join. And I auditioned thinking, ‘maybe I’ll make it to callbacks, and that’s it. ’” To her surprise, 
she was chosen for the vocal ensemble. 
Other first-timers include makeup designer Layla Forghani, who noted, “I was actually pleasantly surprised to find that I could design 
whatever I wanted to do for this musical and carry it out … I did makeup for a fashion show at my [high] school. It was limited in the way 
that couldn’t design what was gonna happen. ” Muir Musical’s freewheeling approach represented an opportunity to innovate. 
Nonetheless, that liberty creates friction in the production process as each disparate section of design has to find workarounds on 
potential conflicts. In addition to extensively arranging actor blocking and choreography, the production staff maps out lighting details, 
costuming and makeup. Production stage manager Kendra Toy explained the intricate and fragile web of connections necessary to such an 
endeavor. “Sound has to coordinate with costume” — mic placement is a constant concern — “or where is the orchestra going, and how is 
the sound going to work for that?” 
Muir Musical is, above all, an organization centered around fostering undergraduate participation in musical theatre. The outgrowth of 
that goal? A fantastic play available free for all UCSD students this coming Spring Quarter.
“Spring Awakening” runs April 8 to April 15, with 8 p.m. evening and 2 p.m. matinee shows at the Mandeville Auditorium.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
To foster a thoughtful and sensitive portrayal of their source material, the “Spring Awakening” cast and crew met with and conducted work -
shops at Sexual Assault Resource Center, Counseling and Psychological Services and LGBT Resource Center.  muir Musical
The UCSD Guardian goes behind the curtain with the cast of “Spring Awakening.”
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOXPHOTO COURTESY OF LAURA MOREJON-RAMIREZA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
In many ways, “Kong” feels 
like a remix of pulpy-action 
cinema. There are splashes 
of “Indiana Jones, ” echoes of “The 
Mummy” and scenes reminiscent 
of “ Apocalypse Now” or “Jurassic 
Park.” From the blaring ‘70s 
hit songs to Henry Jackman’s 
orchestral-rock score, the movie 
oozes nostalgia from start to finish. 
At times, it’s almost like a mishmash 
of older films with better effects. 
But that’s not necessarily a bad 
thing. “Kong” has a lot of fun with 
its source material and plays around 
with various monster-movie tropes. 
It succeeds in exemplifying crowd-
pleasing moments like sudden jump-
scares but also ends up subverting 
a few cliches to great effect.Regrettably, the story itself is 
paper-thin: A dubious setup is 
used to get a group of soldiers 
and scientists onto Skull Island, a 
legendary archipelago surrounded 
by a perpetual storm. Character 
motives are two-dimensional or 
nonexistent, although a bit of leeway 
is given here since “Kong” does 
deal with a large ensemble cast with 
little to no time to delve into each 
character. British tracker Conrad 
(Tom Hiddleston) and Lieutenant 
Colonel Packard (Samuel L. 
Jackson) lead the vast expedition, 
but neither role goes much beyond 
stereotypical action-movie badass. 
Conrad has his moments of empathy 
and heroism, which even out his 
largely stoic personality. Packard is the embodiment of cool and can 
somehow stare down an enraged 
Kong while things are exploding 
around him — you know, typical 
action-movie stuff. John C. Reilly 
plays stranded pilot Hank Marlow, 
deserving a mention mainly for 
the comic relief he brings and 
the katana he wields. Very, very 
satisfyingly, the katana is put to 
good use. “Kong” finally hits its 
stride once the crew approaches 
Skull Island. From there on out it 
is pure, primal pandemonium. The 
film excels most when reveling in 
its chaos with its visceral action 
beats painted in surreal, graphic 
novel-esque cinematography. 
Clever framing, dazzling vistas and 
creative set-pieces underscore the blood-pumping action, making 
each scene a kinetic, visual feast.
The king himself is lovingly 
portrayed, resplendent in both 
rage and grandeur. Lingering shots 
of Kong looming over mountains 
and silhouetted against the sun are 
equal parts majestic and terrifying. 
His mind-boggling physical feats 
also answer the nagging question 
of how the ape king will fare in his 
inevitable clash against the larger 
Godzilla. No laser beams, but rest 
assured this Kong can throw down.
Unfortunately, it’s not fun and 
havoc all the way through: There 
are a few bumps in the rollercoaster 
pacing that serve as the film’s greatest 
strength. Expository dialogue and 
tie-ins to the planned monster cinematic universe feel a bit artificial 
at times, and certain predictable 
plot points hamper the tension. 
But, hey, it’s a King Kong movie.
No one is going to watch 
“Skull Island” for mastercraft 
storytelling, tour de force acting 
or to think deep thoughts. They 
will watch it for the legitimately 
insane monster fights. They will 
go for the escapism, the thrill and 
a giant gorilla taking down attack 
helicopters with his bare hands. 
For what “Skull Island” promises, 
it delivers. And in the realm of 
monster movies, “Kong” is king.
 
—   Derek Deng
Senior Staff WriterHigh-octane action and an epic scale mark a fitting return for the monster king.
Factions of humans resist a brutal alien occupation force in one of the best new sci-fi shows on television.Ko n g: s ku ll i s la n d
COLONY  (Season 2)PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
Director   Jordan Vogt-Roberts
Starring Tom Hiddleston, Samuel L. Jackson, Brie Larson
Release Date   Mar. 10, 2017
Rated   PG-13  B 
Creators   Carlton Cuse, Ryan J. Condal
Starring Josh Holloway, Sarah Wayne Callies, Peter Jacobson
Release Date  Season 2 airs Thursdays 10/9 C 
Rated   TV-MA  B FILM  REVIEW
TV REVIEW
Masked soldiers in armored 
vehicles stand on every 
street corner as drones 
fill the sky above them monitoring 
for any signs of resistance. Giant 
walls and militarized zones separate 
families as citizens struggle to 
survive in near chaos, fighting 
each other for limited resources.
 No, this isn’t occupied Palestine 
or Afghanistan, it’s downtown LA 
under control of a mysterious other -
worldly force in “Colony. ” This show 
from the USA network is a smart and 
thrilling new sci-fi show just starting 
its second season.
The show follows former FBI 
agent Will Bowman (Josh Holloway), 
his wife Katie (Sarah Wayne Callies) and their three children as they 
struggle with life under the constant 
threat of imprisonment and forced 
labor. The family originally hides to 
avoid the Stalinist-style purges when 
the invading force first takes control 
of the planet. However, after Will’s 
identity as a highly trained FBI agent 
is discovered, he is recruited by the 
occupation authorities to track down 
the leaders of a resistance movement 
that has sprung up.
Despite his reservations about 
acting as a collaborator and betray -
ing his own species, Will turns out 
to be a little too good at his job. He 
quickly zeroes in on the resistance 
and begins to chip away at its opera -
tions. Soon, both Will and Katie are pulled into a deadly, colonial-political 
game, manipulated by the scheming 
governor (Peter Jacobson).
Ultimately, Will Bowman discov -
ers that his work may end up destroy -
ing his family rather than protecting 
it. His children become increasingly 
distant as his marriage is in danger of 
collapsing under the weight of all the 
lies and mistrust.
The casting choice of both the 
male and female leads was a risky 
one by the producers. Both Holloway 
(Sawyer from “Lost”) and Callies 
(Lorrie from “The Walking Dead”) 
are known for playing characters 
who fans love to hate. While, indi -
vidually, they are fantastic, in scenes 
together they often lack chemistry, and it becomes difficult at times for 
the viewer to separate their old roles 
from the new.
One thing “Colony” does particu -
larly well is limiting our information, 
condensing a sort of intergalactic war 
into a tight, character-driven show. 
We never actually see these aliens 
who now control part or all of the 
planet, just their ever-present drones 
buzzing around the sky. We don’t 
know what life is like outside the 
colony, or what the aliens’ ultimate 
plans are for humanity.
Despite being a different genre, 
“Colony” has other comparisons to 
the aforementioned “The Walking 
Dead, ” as the true villains in both are 
humans themselves. The alien over -lords, just like shambling zombies, 
become more of a backdrop, a sort of 
omnipresent evil that dominates the 
lives of the remaining inhabitants. In 
both cases, the characters are often 
shocked at how quickly they can per -
sonally adapt, and often thrive, in this 
cruel new world.
With shades of “Blade Runner” 
and “Law and Order, ” USA network’s 
sci-fi drama, “Colony, ” is a great new 
show with a wide appeal. Its stories 
of occupation, mass surveillance and 
brutal oppression mirror the compli -
cated world we live in today. 
—   SPIKE  HEMANS
Staff Writer10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
MERCHANDISE PRESALE
*choose Sun God Presale shipping option
sgf.ucsd.edu
High-octane action complements Wolverine’s R-rated western, giving the iconic character the bloody final chapter he deserves.
PHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOX
Director   James Mangold
Starring Hugh Jackman, Patrick Stewart, Boyd Holbrook
Release Date   Mar. 3, 2017
Rated   R  B +FILM  REVIEW
In the near future, mutants have 
all but disappeared. Wolverine 
(Hugh Jackman), Professor Xavier 
(Patrick Stewart, iconic as always), 
and the less-known Caliban (Stephen 
Merchant) — an albino mutant who 
can sense and track other mutants 
— are all that remain of the X-Men. 
No mutant has been born in 25 years, 
and those who remain are growing 
old. Wolverine’s claws are uneven, 
and he cannot fight like he used to. 
Professor X’s mind is degenerating, 
making his powers unstable as he 
is hidden away and kept in a drug-
induced haze to prevent seizures. 
As a comic-book action movie, 
“Logan” does not work as expected, 
which is the film’s greatest strength. 
“Logan” doesn’t present the audience with a world worth or in need of 
saving, abandoning the crisis arms race 
that took over most X-Men films and 
deconstructing a genre which has, over 
the course of a generation, become 
one of the most culturally relevant 
mythologies. “Logan” is instead an 
apocalyptic western with Wolverine as 
a western archetype, a gunslinger who 
has lost his friends and purpose, forced 
to live out his days in relative isolation. 
After Wolverine and Professor 
X learn of the existence of a new 
mutant, a girl with powers very 
much like Wolverine’s, a new hope is 
awakened in the formerly infallible 
teacher as well as the worn-out 
Wolverine. “Logan” channels the 
dystopia of “Children of Men,” 
depicting a species on the verge of extinction with a renewed promise 
of the future in a hostile world. 
“Logan” presents stakes that feel real 
and has the characters to match. 
Wolverine is forced back into 
action when he, Professor X and the 
mysterious new mutant head out to 
find “Eden, ” a rumored safe-haven 
for surviving mutants. The only 
densely populated area the film visits 
is Las Vegas, shown to be more of a 
depraved outpost than a vibrant city. 
The highways are mostly abandoned, 
and truck drivers are replaced by 
autonomous shipping containers. 
These elements add weight to the 
world of “Logan” and show that 
the real villain of the film, the force 
that breaks down the Wolverine, the 
mutant species and mythology itself, is time.
Words like “gritty” will be used to 
describe the film’s action, but the same 
words have been used to describe the 
likes of the “The Dark Knight, ” which 
is incomparable. “The Dark Knight” 
is a thriller, while “Logan” is a 
western. The action is uncomfortable 
and messy, and Wolverine is not what 
he used to be. Being the first R-rated 
X-Men film, “Logan” is not only 
violent, it is painful. In the opening 
scene of the film, we see Wolverine 
get beaten down by a group of thugs. 
He is vulnerable, and his kills, which 
involve brutally chopping off limbs, 
are ugly. Despite the action being 
relatively sparse, it is more impactful 
and the audience is closer to it. These 
scenes are shot low to the ground and avoid hyperactive editing. 
Hugh Jackman has portrayed 
the character of Wolverine for the 
last 17 years, with “Logan” being 
Jackman’s last performance as the 
mutant. As such, the film is a tribute 
to his character. Jackman plays to 
Wolverine’s humanity rather than 
his mutant abilities and shows 
that everyone, even a mythic hero, 
is painfully fumbling through life 
trying to figure out how to define 
themselves. Jackman’s performance 
is resonant, and “Logan” marks the 
bittersweet sendoff for an iconic hero.
—   NAFT ALI  BURAK OVSKY
A&E Associate EditorPHOTO COURTESY OF 20TH CENTURY FOXA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The sight of Geisel as an impending shadow blocking out San Diego’s midday sun. The sound of rustling blank 
notebooks, filled with the unwritten and unlearned. The appearance of caffeine-infused, sleep-deprived students 
begrudgingly trudging their way to lab. The physical manifestation of the tension that creeps in with deadlines, exams 
and essays. The smell of burning ramen as the last resort of nutrition following a long night studying. The norm of finals 
is quite despairing, no? 
But it doesn’t have to be! A spring awakening is coming soon, friends. One last hurdle before the sweet week of freedom. 
Last week, Lifestyle brought you a taste of escape, and today we’re here to redeem the remaining senses that accompany 
finals week. Look ahead to get a glimpse of how to better utilize those eyes and ears to have a more productive and engaging 
study experience.
Three times a year — four, when including the 
masochistic need to take summer session to graduate on 
time — we undergo the horror that is finals week. This is 
it. The week whose shadow dreadfully looms over us. The 
week when hours spent studying are outnumbered by the 
hours spent procrastinating and praying. But instead of 
numbing ourselves into a miserable state of apathy, engage 
those senses to improve study capacity. 
A SIGHT TO SEE
Japanese philosophy, Konmari, is a strong proponent of 
minimalism. Author Marie Kondo of “The Life-Changing 
Magic of Tidying Up” suggests that clean, minimalistic spaces 
containing only happiness-inducing objects can spatially and 
idealistically promote a more proactive lifestyle. So de-stress 
by decluttering — create clean spaces to work and dispose 
of excessive items taking up desk room. But maybe you can’t 
get rid of all stress-inducing essentials; textbooks, notes and 
planners all play a role in the actual studying itself. Instead, 
in your newly minimal study space, maybe include a few 
tangible stress-reducing items to balance out the unsightly 
lecture slides you’re forced to look at. A photo of some pups 
or a small potted plant can help keep you motivated without 
being distracting. Couple this with some calming colors: While 
I gravitate towards pastel blues and greens, go with whatever 
aesthetically enticing pigment suits your fancy. Essentially, 
limit what is looked at, and keep your eyes on the things that 
incite proactivity, creativity and happiness — not Pepe the 
Frog memes. And if the study space you’ve curated is no longer 
cutting it, a change of scenery or catching the sunset on a study 
break might help. TAKE A LISTEN
Studying doesn’t have to be audibly monotonous. Engage the 
ears in some soothing sounds. (Shameless plug: check out our other 
piece, “Hear Me Out: Music and Studying” to get some Spotify study 
playlist recommendations.) Have to listen to podcasts for all those 
lectures you slept through? The Internet is an arguably beautiful 
place that contains sites solely dedicated to background noise that 
aim to create calming ambiances via sounds of soft rain, ocean 
waves or, simply enough, white noise. Play this in the background 
to balance the drone of that econ lecture you missed. Maybe you 
need some words of encouragement. Take a break and listen to a 
TED Talk (and maybe even learn a new, innovative approach to 
chemistry while you silently sob over organic chemistry) or call 
someone guaranteed to spit out some words of affirmation. And 
while I don’t necessarily recommend the “I’ll just play some TV in 
the background” idea, if that’s your ideal, I recommend Bob Ross 
instead of “The Bachelorette. ” 
ALL THE FEELS
In the medical field, the sensation garnered through touch is 
one of the most important facets of caregiving — it’s all at once 
humanizing and encouraging. And isn’t this exactly what we need 
during a week of death? But, like most things, touch can operate 
on a gradient. For those of us who believe wholly in the power 
of physical contact, then by all means, please go find a (platonic 
and consenting) study buddy to give an encouraging hug to. For 
those of us who, sure, might see the significance in touch, but stray 
more towards the introvert color of the rainbow, Therapy Fluffies 
at The Zone on Thursdays or The Cat Cafe might be a better bet. 
And for those of us who by no means have the capacity during this 
hellish week to be surrounded by any living thing, Target offers a wide range of comfortably soft blankets if we need the hug but not 
necessarily the human. 
BRAIN FOOD
Feed the stomach, feed the soul. Warning: this does not mean 
substituting coffee for breakfast, stocking up on empty Fiber 
One Chewy Bar calories, storing up convenient sugar and fats or 
mistaking the sensation of taste with the black hole distraction 
of “Tasty” videos. Because no, making the deep-fried, bacon-
wrapped cheeseburger might not be the best study break or study 
snack. Instead, nutritionists recommend small meals throughout 
the day to keep you, as Tony might say, “full and focused. ” Try 
some antioxidant-filled berries, swapping out lattes with green 
tea or switching up Chicken McNuggets with salmon stocked 
with omega-3 (which is also supposedly helpful with memory). 
So put down that Reese’s cup and pick up a handful of almonds. 
CATCH A WHIFF OF THIS
Last but not least, give your nose a little love. Try out anything 
from Bath and Body Works’ aromatherapy line, or DIY essential 
oils. Use eucalyptus and spearmint to reduce stress, lavender 
and camomile while you nap or something citrus-y for energy. 
Replace the lingering scent of Tapioca Express chicken and 
sorrow that clings to you after a night spent at Geisel with a bath 
bomb or freshly washed sheets. Light a candle and let your study 
stresses melt away. 
Sure, studying might be the worst byproduct of being a 
student. And while it’s become an integrated and unfortunately 
inevitable side effect of our student lifestyles, here’s to hoping 
Lifestyle can give some tips to alleviate the pain. THE FIVE SENSES OF FINALSby Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Director   James Mangold
Starring Hugh Jackman, Patrick Stewart, Boyd Holbrook
Release Date   Mar. 3, 2017
Rated   R
ILLUSTRATION BY SAM XU /UCSD GUARDIAN12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
sgf.ucsd.edu • ascefestivals@ucsd.edu • 858.534.0477Head into Geisel for a last-minute cram, and, 
after scouring every table for a seat, you’ll find 
that a majority of your fellow classmates have 
headphones in their ears. Chances are that if it’s not a 
podcast, their heads are currently being filled with some 
Beyoncé, maybe some Bach, perhaps a bit of The Beatles. 
Music is an incredibly important component of any 
young adult’s life, yet its role in the educational sphere is 
often debated. Does music affect studying ability? 
Here’s what the research says. 
The benefits: The most famous relationship between 
studying and music is the “Mozart effect. ” This claims 
that listening to Mozart may lead to better spatial-
temporal reasoning, potentially leading to higher 
test scores. Music may be a stress-reducer, and it is 
an incredible emotion setter — an upbeat song can 
put someone in a positive mood, making them more 
motivated. 
The downfalls: Music can distract, especially 
when the listener is emotionally attached to what they’re 
hearing. Music may interfere with recall ability, like 
when you’re trying to memorize vocabulary or a list of 
numbers. Listening to music while reading may also limit 
comprehension. In general, numerous studies have found 
that people seem to perform tasks better in silence rather 
than with noise. 
Here’s another take.
Everyone is different. Even if research can tell you that 
listening to hard rock while looking over your physics notes 
will keep you from memorizing Newton’s first, second and 
third laws, maybe hard rock helps you concentrate. 
If you’ve tried it and it works, then keep doing it. 
Personally, one of my high school teachers played smooth jazz during our statistics classes, so now I listen to 
jazz while I attempt my statistics problems. Calculus tends 
to frustrate me, so I’ve found that listening to classical 
piano or acoustic covers calms me down a little bit. But 
when I’m writing an essay, I prefer silence so I can hear 
myself read my sentences out loud and so a line from 
The Chainsmokers doesn’t end up in my paper about 
immigration and assimilation. 
If your study routine feels a little lacking or you can’t 
seem to stay focused, play around with different types of 
music and see if anything helps. But if you seem to work 
best in the quiet, there’s no reason to change that. 
Study style is something that varies from student to 
student, and there’s no formula on how to create a perfect 
setup. Music is one of those factors that can supplement or 
detract from an environment, but it all depends on personal 
preference. 
--
Feel like adding a new beat to your study routine? 
Here are the Spotify playlists that are likely to get me 
through finals.   
Morning Tea:  Wake up early to finish some 
homework you should’ve done last night? This playlist 
of mellow tunes will ease you into your day without (too 
much) pain.  
Soft Pop Hits: Any pop-radio lover would love to 
sing along to this playlist. 
Coffee T able Jazz: My go-to playlist for statistics. 
Your Favorite Coffeehouse or Coffeehouse: If you 
can’t get to an actual cafe but like working in one, this 
can get the vibe pretty close. 
Silk Sheets:  An easygoing playlist for when you’re in 
the mood for some R&B or rap. Hear Me Out: 
Music & Studying
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-Editor
ANNIKA  OLIVES   LIFESTYLE@ucsdGUARDIAN.ORG@UCSD
GUARDIANl i k e 
u s 
o n 
f b CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
SUSAN NARUCKI
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 13 - MAR 192017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 3.13WED3.15WEDNESDAY 3.15  • 7pm
THU3.16
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE3.14
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 PRESENTS: SUSAN 
NARUCKI - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Soprano Susan Narucki and pianist Donald 
Berman present an evening of songs that are 
united by intensity of expression, exquisite 
writing for voice and piano and overarching 
lyricism. The performance will include Kurtag's 
rarely heard Three Old Inscriptions, Zbigniew 
Preisner's Requiem for My Friend, selections from 
Robert Schumann's Kerner Lieder and works by 
Alexander Zemlinsky and American composer 
James Primosch. As longtime collaborators, 
Narucki and Berman earned the Classical 
Recording Foundation's Samuel Sanders Award 
for their critically acclaimed recording of the 
songs of Charles Ives. Tickets: GA: $15.50, UC 
San Diego faculty/staff/alumni: $10.50, students 
w/ ID: Free. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu10am
YOGA ZONE: HATHA - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Come to this deep stretch class and let go. Using 
props like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls this 
class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body. Led by FitLife instructor Nadine, this free 
program is on first come, first serve basis. Blocks 
and yoga mats provided.
4pm
WOMEN'S SPORT HISTORY: FROM 
STRENGTH TO RESISTANCE - THE 
GREAT HALL, INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
Join International House in collaboration with UC 
San Diego's Center on Gender Equity and Health 
for a lecture by Dr Bonnie J. Morris, Professor at 
Georgetown & George Washington University, on 
how women have handled stereotypes, 
discrimination and limited ideas about the female 
body to achieve record-breaking triumph in the 
athletic world. Refreshments provided. Contact: 
ebonnevie@ucsd.edu9am
UC SAN DIEGO MEN'S TENNIS VS. 
WESTERN NEW MEXICO - 
NORTHVIEW TENNIS COURTS
Come out and support your UC San Diego Tritons 
as they compete against Western New Mexico's 
Men's Tennis team! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS' MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local growers 
and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food 
vendors have a little something for everyone. 
Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new 
canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on 
Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
11am
ART & SOUL: ZENTANGLE YOUR 
THOUGHTS - THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Doodle your stress away by zentangling before 
finals! Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
The R&R Squad provides free 4-5 minute low 
intensity neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs. Drop-in and get a back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
GROCERY BINGO - THE LOFT, PC 
EAST
Did someone say FREE FOOD??? Come out to 
Grocery Bingo Night where you can win bags of 
FREE groceries simply by playing Bingo in The Loft 
with your fellow Tritons! Satisfy your cravings for 
DELICIOUS, HEALTHY food and have fun with 
friends--mark your calendars! EVERYONE WHO 
PLAYS WILL BE ENTERED INTO A RAFFLE TO WIN A 
GRAND PRIZE!!! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHOIR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Directed by Ken Anderson, the UC San Diego 
Gospel Choir combines hundreds of voices to fill 
the auditorium with the uplifting sound of African 
American spirituals, blues, traditional songs and 
gospel. Tickets: GA: $15.50, UC San Diego 
faculty/staff/alumni: $10.50, students w/ ID: Free. 
Contact: mroos@ucsd.eduSAT3.18
1pm
CGI U APPLICATION WORKSHOPS 
- STUDENT LEADERSHIP 
CHAMBERS, PC EAST
Come learn about how to make an impact in the 
world by attending the Clinton Global Initiative 
University, a meeting where students, topic 
experts, and celebrities come together to discuss 
and develop innovative solutions to pressing 
global challenges. President Clinton and Chelsea 
Clinton hosted CGI U 2016 at Berkeley. The 
meeting brought together more than 1,200 
students to make a difference in CGIU's five 
focus areas: Education, Environment and 
Climate Change, Peace and Human Rights, 
Poverty Alleviation, and Public Health. CGI U 
2017 will be at Northeastern University in 
Boston, MA, October 13-15th. CGI U is a growing 
community of young leaders who don't just 
discuss global challenges they take real, 
concrete steps toward solving them.12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS & 
CRAFTS - ARTSPACE, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it is 
a picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All 
supplies are provided! All are welcome! 
Contact: vigonzales@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA 
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
2pm
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN'S 
TENNIS VS. ST. EDWARD'S - 
NORTHVIEW TENNIS COURTS
Come out and support your UC San Diego 
Tritons as they compete against St. Edward's 
Women's Tennis team! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
4pm
UC SAN DIEGO SOFTBALL VS. 
CAL STATE MONTEREY BAY - 
TRITON SOFTBALL FIELD
Come out and support your UC San Diego 
Tritons as they compete against Cal State 
Monterey Bay's Softball team in this double 
header match-up! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
SUN3.05FRI3.17
8am
HIRING PEER EDUCATORS! - 
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY OFFICE
The Academic Integrity Office is looking to hire 
peer educators.Peer Educators are volunteers 
who promote integrity and educate students on 
ethics. As a Peer Educator, you will help 
students see the value of acting with integrity 
today because it carries on to shape the people 
and professionals you’ll be in the future. You get 
a chance to develop professionally, through 
leadership, public speaking, facilitation 
discussions, advising students, and putting on 
events. Contact: aio@ucsd.edu (858) 822 -2163SUN3.05SUN3.19
8am
EXTENDED RUN OF FREAKY 
FRIDAY - LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Hailed by The Washington Post as "a polished, 
peppy, modern fairy tale,""Disney's new 
musical Freaky Friday is based on the 
celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and two hit 
Disney films. The classic story of a mother 
and daughter who magically swap bodies for 
24 chaotic hours has been given a 
contemporary spin with a hilarious new book 
by Bridget Carpenter ("Parenthood", "Friday 
Night Lights") and "a driving pop rock score" 
(DC Metro Theatre Arts) by Tony Award and 
Pulitzer Prize winners Tom Kitt and Brian 
Yorkey (Next to Normal, If/Then). With 
inventive staging by Playhouse Artistic 
Director Christopher Ashley and sharp 
choreography by Sergio Trujillo (Memphis, 
Jersey Boys), this dynamic production is 
"delightfully spunky" with "timeless appeal" 
(Variety).
Upcoming at
Upcoming attheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduMATTHEW STEVENS
Wednesday, Mar. 15  
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft • FREE
NOTHING SPECIAL
Friday, Mar. 17  
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft • FREE
STEPHANIE 
RICHARDS
CONDUCTION ENSEMBLE  
PART 3
Monday, Mar. 13  
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft • FREE
GROCERY BINGO
Tuesday, Mar. 14  
Event: 5pm-7pm  
The Loft • FREE
FINALS WEEK 
DESTRESS
Tuesday, Mar. 21  
Brownies & Bluebooks  
Event: 9am • PC Plaza  
Cookies & Cocoa  
Event: 4-6pm  
PC Commuter LoungeSAM LACHOW &  
DAVE B
Thursday, Mar. 16  
Doors: 8pm • Show: 8:30pm
The Loft  
FREE  for UCSD Students 
$10 GA
Good Luck on Finals!14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Submitted, as a tax return
6. Briscoe and Green, on “Law & Order”
10. Bookie’s numbers
14. Close by, once
15. Wednesday was named after him
16. Use a rosary, perhaps
17. Having a single element
18. Problematic plants for ranchers
20. Antique miniature chest
22. Aardvark of kiddie TV
23. Lake in northern Minnesota
26. Subj. of a 1999 protest in Seattle
27. Part of an agenda
29. One ten-millionth of a joule
30. Generic name for a dog
33. Netscape or Internet Explorer
36. Fireman’s signal
38. General Lee’s govt.
39. Remote control button
40. Some Boy Scout leaders
43. ___ dixit
44. Business letter abbr.
45. Augie Doggie or Deputy Dawg
46. Drs. in delivery rooms
48. Decide (to)
50. PAC contributor, often
54. Lack of individualism
58. Corset material
60. Overly aggressive dog, e.g.
61. Competent
62. “Dragonwyck” author Seton
63. #1 hit for the Rolling Stones
64. Dunderhead
65. U.S. Navy’s mascot
66. Very long timeDown
1. Animal life
2. Word before tube or ear
3. “It was the ___ I could do”
4. Night crawler
5. Go to the Betty Ford Clinic, e.g.
6. Not even close
7. Reason to use an air freshener
8. Typography option
9. More wintry, in a way
10. “Die Fledermaus, ” for one
11. Puts on a tux, for example
12. Jerry Stiller, to Ben Stiller
13. Ending for some Windows files
19. It’s used to clean up spills
21. Cleaving tool
24. Water or garden follower
25. Go along (with)
27. “The Master Builder” playwright 
Henrik
28. Kind of ski lift
30. Is affected by sunlight, perhaps
31. “Ladybugs” actress Graff
32. Kind of club
34. Repeat performance?
35. Dieter’s concern
37. Whodunit discovery
41. Free gift from a book club, some -
times
42. Weak
47. Words to the black sheep
49. Boneless cut of meat
51. British Petroleum competitor
52. Had a home-cooked meal
53. Michelin products, in Manchester
55. Not stereo
56. “A Day Without Rain” singer
57. Undiluted
58. Large amount of cash
59. “Six Feet Under” channelFURNITURE
Inch Mattress Topper for Full Size Bed - 
Bought this last week in Stanford Studios, 
but the size doesn’t work for me--I have 
a smaller bed than a full size. Available 
immediately for pickup on campus. Images 
and contact info on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157004 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Coffee Tables - Glass-top, gold-iron coffee 
table and matching end tables. Listing ID: 
306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Antique French Dining Set - Antique oak 
dining room table from France with leaves 
and table seats. Price includes all chairs 
and the leaves. Images and contact infor -
mation on Advertigo website. Listing ID: 
305156998 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationPETS
Cavapoo Male, 9 wks, Oliver - $1200. 
Oliver is an astonishing male Cavapoo. He 
is the cream of the crop in San Diego. 
Oliver is up to date on his shots and vet 
checks and comes with a one-year health 
guarantee. 619-786-7362 or http://www.
puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 306914397 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Silver Bengal Kittens - $1150. Two gor -
geous silver-spotted kittens available. Born 
9/3/16. Pics available. Ask me about our 
website. Listing ID: 306914370 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Tame Scarlet Macaw Adult - $850. Big, 
tame scarlet macaw for sale. DNA tested 
male. Will make a great pet or breeder. 
Call (858)397-4419. Listing ID: 305984550 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. Perfect for 
tripods, light stand or whatever you need 
to ship. Professional travel case with wheels 
for easy transport. This is the only case to 
use for airline travel. It protects your valu -
able equipment and is easy to handle. Made 
from ABS plastic, this case is just about 
indestructible. Travel storage case is four 
feet tall and twelve inches in diameter. It 
holds approximately six light stands. Listing 
ID: 306503235 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condi -
tion. They come with a pelican case and 
ballast. They all have bulbs and some light -
ing accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Level: 1234SUDOKU
CAN YOU FIND
ALL THE
four-LEAF
CLOVERS?
HAPPY
ST. patrick’s day
MARCH 17, 2017
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/Home
Fencng
Fencing Teams Face-off at NCAA 
West Regionals at Stanford University
UC San Diego will now wait to hear who will compete in the Championships.
BY  R o s i n a  G a r c i a
Co-Editor In Chief
The UC San Diego 
fencing teams 
participated in the 
NCAA West Regional at Stanford University on 
March 11. The Tritons 
competed against Stanford, 
the Air Force, Incarnate Word and Levine. 
UCSD had athletes place 
within the top three in three 
events. In the men’s foil, 
junior David Hadler placed 
second, losing the first place 
spot to Stanford’s graduate 
student Alex Massialas, the 
silver medalist in the foil at 
the 2016 Summer Olympics in Brazil. Freshman Taly 
Yukelson earned a first-
place finish in the women’s 
epee. Also on the women’s 
side, junior Sophia 
Holmqvist placed in second 
in the foil. 
Overall, Stanford had 
three first-place finishes out 
of six events.The Tritons are now 
waiting to hear who will 
compete in the NCAA 
Fencing Championships, 
to be held at the Indiana 
Farmers Coliseum in 
Indianapolis from March 23 
to March 26.
The UC San Diego 
women’s basketball 
team traveled to 
Anchorage, Alaska to begin 
its journey in the NCAA 
Division II West Regional, 
but its stay was cut short as they fell 69–65 against 
Simon Fraser University 
on Friday. The loss put the 
Tritons at 23–7 overall. 
The Tritons will have to 
wait until next year to give 
the NCAA Tournament   
another stab.  
Turnovers were the 
Tritons’ worst enemy that night, as they committed 
17 turnovers and could not 
recover from their self-
inflicted damage, even 
after shooting 42.4 percent 
(25–59) compared to SFU’s 
39.7 percent (27–68). Those 
17 turnovers led to nearly 10 
more shots by SFU, which 
at the end of the day made 
the difference in a tightly 
contested game. 
Redshirt freshman 
forward Mikayla Williams 
led the way for UCSD, 
as she earned her second 
double-double of the 
season with 15 points and 
10 rebounds in addition to a couple of blocks. Three 
other Tritons scored double 
digits: junior forward 
Dalayna Sampton (14), 
senior guard Beth Mounier 
(11) and sophomore guard 
Joleen Yang (10) all pulled 
their weight during the 
game. 
At the end of the night, 
the Tritons’ effort simply 
came up short and made 
for a disappointing end 
to the season, as the team 
looked to make progress in 
the tournament this year. 
UCSD can look back at 
its California Collegiate 
Athletic Association regular season title as perhaps the 
highlight of season, but will 
be looking to make some 
more noise in the NCAA 
Tournament next year.  
Other season highlights 
include head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer winning CCAA 
Coach of the Year and 
Sampton earning Newcomer 
of the Year. Mounier and 
Sampton were selected to 
the  all-CCAA First Team, 
while senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod earned second 
team honors and Yang was 
given an honorable mention.
W.  BASKETBALL
Tritons Fall Short in First 
Round of NCAA Tourney
Despite earning the CCAA regular season title 
earlier this year, UCSD couldn’t get past SFU.  
BY  D A N I E L   H E R N A N D E Z
sENIOR  Staff WriterROSINA  GARCIA  RMG008@ucsd,edu
Daniel  hernandez  dah043@ucsd,eduPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 13, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
M.  BASKETBALL
Tritons 
Advance 
to West     
Finals
UC San Diego defeated California 
Baptist University in a Saturday 
night thriller to advance to the 
NCAA West Regional Finals.
by Richard Lu // Contributing Writer
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team participated 
in the NCAA Division-II West 
Regional tournament quarterfinals 
and semifinals last week. The 
19th-ranked Tritons were the first 
seed entering the tournament. 
UCSD took down Dixie State and 
California Baptist University to 
advance to the finals against Chico 
State. The team easily defeated Dixie 
State in the quarterfinals but had a 
nail-biting game against CBU in the 
semifinals. 
UCSD vs. Dixie State
The Tritons blew out Dixie State 
94–68 thanks to a stellar three-point 
shooting performance from senior 
guard Aleks Lipovic. Lipovic led 
the team in scoring with a game-
high 21 points, all of which came 
from behind the arc. The other 
starters, senior guard Adam Klie 
(10), junior guard George Buaku 
(13), sophomore guard Christian 
Oshita (13) and sophomore center 
Chris Hansen (12) all scored in 
double digits. Klie also dished out 
a career-high nine assists while 
Hansen notched a double-double 
with 11 rebounds to match his 12 
points. 
UCSD made a total of 17 three-
pointers on 42.9 percent (17–38) 
shooting. The team took care of 
the ball relatively well, only turning 
it over six times. The Tritons 
grabbed 14 more rebounds than the 
Trailblazers, seven of which were offensive boards. 
Junior guard Trevor Hill led Dixie 
State in scoring with 16 points. The 
Trailblazers went 50 percent (25–
50) from the field but only made 
three of their nine attempts from 
downtown. 
The first three of the game for 
the Tritons came at 18:31 in the 
first half courtesy of Lipovic. The 
Triton guard’s three gave the team 
a 5–2 lead that it would build on. 
UCSD was relentless in its attack 
and grew the lead to 17 with 1:26 
remaining in the half with a layup by 
junior forward Michael Shoemaker. 
However, three free throws by the 
Trailblazers cut the lead down to 14 
heading into the second half. 
The Triton offense was firing on 
all gears this game, and the team 
displayed more of its offensive 
firepower in the second half. UCSD 
continued to rain threes down 
on Dixie State, making eight of 
the 17 that the team took in the            
second half. 
The closest Dixie State ever 
got to bringing the game back was 
at 18:44 in the second half, when 
redshirt senior forward Marcus 
Bradley made a layup to bring the 
game to 46–33. From 18:44 on, the 
Tritons maintained control of the 
game. UCSD’s biggest lead was a 
29-point 94–65 lead with 0:34 left 
to go. The last bucket made was 
by Trailblazer junior forward Kyler 
Nielson at the 0:27 mark to bring the game to a 94–68 Triton victory.
UCSD vs. California Baptist
The Tritons were evenly matched 
against the Lancers. The game came 
down to crunch-time free throws, 
and UCSD pulled through to beat 
California Baptist 84–80.
Klie led the team with 22 
points on 10–14 shooting. Buaku 
and Hansen chipped in 17 points 
apiece, and Lipovic scored 12. The 
team struggled to stay out of foul 
trouble: Klie, Oshita and Hansen 
had four fouls each, and Shoemaker       
fouled out. 
UCSD shot 53.7 percent (29–54) 
from the field and only had six 
turnovers. The team did not shoot 
very well from the charity stripe, 
only making 53.8 percent (21–36) of 
its free throws.
CBU was led in scoring by senior 
guard Michael Smith, who scored a 
game-high 39 points for his team. 
Smith single-handedly kept CBU in 
the game, playing all 40 minutes of 
the game, and almost willed them to 
the victory. 
The Lancers shot 44.7 percent 
(21–47) from the field and made 
10–20 three-pointers. They shot 
77.8 percent (28–36) from the free-
throw line.
UCSD started off the first half 
strong and was able to build a 
10-point lead with 9:16 remaining. 
However, CBU fought back to take 
the lead 38–36 courtesy with a 
right-corner three by Smith with 0:31 remaining. Neither team scored 
after that, making the score 38–36 
going into halftime. 
The second half was a back-and-
forth affair; neither team was able to 
secure more than a five-point lead 
until the 7:44 mark, when Lipovic 
made a layup to give UCSD a 64–58 
lead. CBU kept on fighting and cut 
the lead down to three at the 6:36 
mark. At this point in the game, 
the momentum was beginning to 
shift in CBU’s favor. However, the 
Lancers were unable to capitalize on 
the change in momentum. The pace 
of the game had slowed down and 
most possessions were ending up at 
the free-throw line. 
Smith missed two free throws 
at the 5:05 mark that would have 
brought the game to a five-point 
difference. At this point, CBU 
switched from a man-to-man 
defense to a 2–3 zone defense. This 
switch caused some initial problems 
for UCSD, and the team turned 
the ball over due to a shot-clock 
violation with 4:35 remaining. 
CBU pushed the pace in an 
attempt to score quick baskets and 
take the lead. However, UCSD 
slowed down the game with its 
substitutions. The Tritons were 
taking advantage of every dead ball 
and subbing in offense for defense 
and vice versa. 
With 1:20 left to go in regulation, 
CBU fouled Klie, who was having 
a very poor shooting performance from the free-throw line. Klie missed 
both free throws, and Smith scored 
a layup on the other end to cut the 
lead to four. Klie was intentionally 
fouled and missed both free throws 
again. CBU bolted down the court, 
and Smith hit a three to bring the 
game to a one-point difference. 
With 0:33 remaining, the Tritons 
called a timeout to set up their 
inbounds play to give a different 
player the ball. Out of the timeout, 
UCSD found Buaku, and CBU 
fouled him to stop the clock. Buaku 
hit both free throws, but Smith 
answered with a layup. The Tritons 
went to Buaku again, who was able 
to convert only one of the two free 
throws. Fortunately, UCSD forced a 
turnover by Smith. The ball found 
its way to junior guardw Anthony 
Ballestero, who was immediately 
fouled. Ballestero sauntered over 
to the free-throw line with a very 
confident swagger. He casually 
knocked down his free throws, both 
of which hit nothing but the bottom 
of the net. Ballestero’s free throws 
iced the game at 84–80. 
UCSD will play the sixth-seeded 
Chico State in the finals on Monday, 
March 13. Tip-off is scheduled for 
7 p.m. The winner will move on to 
the Elite Eight, which will take place 
March 22 to March 25 in Sioux Falls, 
South Dakota.PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Basketball
M. Tennis
W. Tennis
M. Volleyball
W. Tennis7 PM 
9 AM
2 PM 
6 PM 
2 PM3/13
3/14
3/14
3/14
3/16VS Chico State
VS Western New Mexico
VS Rollins
VS California Baptist
VS St. Edward’s
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
TRACK  &  FIELD
MEN'S BASETBALL
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY HENRY CHEN /UCSD GUARDIAN
The UC San Diego track and field teams hosted the San Diego Co llegiate Challenge, where the 
women finished in first and the men in second. 