VOLUME 50, ISSUE 40   MONDA Y , JUNE 5, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THROWING IT 
BACK
A LOT CAN HAPPEN IN THE 
SPAN OF 50 YEARS. FROM 
FOOD AND DRINK TO FASHION 
ON A NIGHT OUT, THE 
UCSD STUDENT LIFESTYLE 
HAS FOUND ITS FOOTING 
THROUGH REPEATING AND 
CONTEXTUALIZING WITH 
THE TIMES. NEVERTHELESS, 
HERE’S TO HOPING THE BEST 
FOR THE NEXT 50.
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER
NBA  FINALSREPRESENTiNG STUDENTS  
Game  1  ReactionsOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  15
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“If the university really 
wants to honor us, then 
we should have the right 
to shape our ceremony 
to reflect our values and 
convictions,”
- Megan Monges 
On Commencement
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASES OF THE WEEK  .2
RACCOONS......................4
A&E .............................. 11
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
BASEBALL  .................... 16 LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  8
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
MONDAY
H 69 L 62TUESDAY 
H 69 L 62
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 61THURSDAY 
H 69 L 60
A new research study has 
surfaced from both UC San Diego’s 
assistant professor Holly B. Shakya 
and Yale University’s professor 
Nicholas A. Christakis, which found 
that the more time people spend 
using Facebook or other forms of 
social media, the more susceptible 
they are to a diminished well-being, 
such as diminished physical or 
mental health and life satisfaction. 
The study was done over a span 
of two years, with three waves of 
data consisting of 5,208 adults 
from a national longitudinal panel 
provided by the Gallup organization 
and consisted of four metrics: life satisfaction, self-reported mental 
health, self-reported physical health 
and body-mass index. 
Their research was measured 
on the amount of time users used 
Facebook, how they interacted by 
liking others’ posts, creating one’s 
own post and clicking on links. These 
four metrics enabled researchers to 
see the correlation between the well-
being of a person and social media.
The study had measures of 
respondents’ real-world social 
networks, which consisted of naming 
four friends they discuss important 
matters with and four friends they 
spend their free time with, offering 
everyone a chance to name a total of 
eight individuals they interact with 
face-to-face in their daily life. According to an article published 
in Harvard Business Review 
by Shakya and Christakis, “prior 
research has concluded that social 
media may detract the amount of 
face-to-face relationships, decreased 
the amount of time individuals 
choose to take part in meaningful 
activities, led to internet addiction 
and led to a diminished self-esteem 
by comparing one’s own life to others 
on social media. ” 
The article said that while using 
Facebook led to a diminished well-
being, there is no definite answer 
to how it occurs because there were 
no differences between the three 
activity measures they used; liking Team of  UCSD 
Students to Brew 
Beer on MoonCAMPUS
The team is partnering with 
fellow finalists to take a beer-
brewing canister into orbit. 
A team of 11 UC San Diego 
students who lost after competing in 
Google’s Lunar XPRIZE competition 
as finalists have been given a second 
chance to take their project to 
the moon after teaming up with 
Synergy Moon, a fellow competitor 
in Google’s contest.
The student team, known as 
Original Gravity, commenced the 
experiment back in August 2016 
after being involved in another 
student competition introduced 
to them by Dr. Ramesh Rao, a 
professor at the Jacobs School of 
Engineering. 
“The objective of that 
competition was to come up with 
an experiment that can sustain life 
on the moon, and whomever can 
come up with the best experiment, 
won a spot on a rocket that was 
involved in the Google Lunar XPrize 
Competition, ” Neeki Ashari said, a 
fifth-year Bioengineering major in 
Revelle College and one of Original 
Gravity’s three team leaders. 
Google’s Lunar XPrize consists 
of teams who are privately funded to 
be the first to land their spacecrafts 
on the moon. After landing, the 
spacecrafts are to travel 500 meters 
and then transmit back high 
definition images and videos of the 
travel.
After hearing about the 
competition, the team got together 
to come up with possible projects 
that would secure them a place on 
the rocket. 
“As we were discussing 
possibilities for a concept, a home 
brewer on our team threw in the 
idea of brewing beer on the moon, ” 
Ashari said. “We were all fans of 
the idea, especially because we 
all enjoyed the craft and science 
behind it. We had a few laughs, 
but then slowly we began to realize 
that it would also serve a scientific 
purpose: understanding yeast in a 
lunar gravity environment. ”
Aside from understanding the 
viability of yeast on the moon as 
well as in low Earth orbit (LEO), 
the project would play a crucial role 
in determining the possibility of a 
lunar colony ever being established 
on the moon as humans are very 
dependent on yeast in their daily 
food intake.
“Yeast is one of the most prevalent 
microorganisms around,” Ashari 
said. “It is a major component in 
all of our everyday necessities. Such 
as foods (bread), beverages and 
pharmaceuticals (insulin). It is a 
necessity for which the majority of 
humans have become dependent on. 
This experiment would far exceed 
brewing applications and would 
actually serve as a vital purpose. 
If we can understand this, it can 
play a role in consumptive and 
clinical applications for the future of 
colonization in space exploration. ”Preuss Teacher Convicted of  Molesting Student
Preuss School teacher Walter Solomon, who had 
been convicted of child molestation two years 
ago, is now facing a lawsuit after his initial 
dismissal from his teaching position at the charter 
school. The molestation began in 2015 when the 
unnamed, female victim was 17 years old. 
After discovering the teacher’s inappropriate 
conduct, he was suspended and put on a three-year 
probation by the school in October 2015. Now, two 
years later, the family is publically suing both Solomon 
and Preuss School for failing to act in a timely manner 
to ensure student safety.
“When you go to send your child to school, your 
child should be protected, ” the victim’s mother said 
in an exclusive interview to ABC 10 News. “ At Preuss 
School that did not happen. ”
When the UCSD Guardian reached out to the 
Preuss School for information, they were unwilling to 
disclose any information beyond an official statement 
due to the pending litigation. 
“Walter Solomon was a science teacher at the 
Preuss School, ” the statement read. “Once the Preuss 
School administration was informed about the 
possibility that Solomon engaged in inappropriate 
behavior with a high school student in late May 2015, 
the school immediately contacted UC Police. Solomon 
was placed on investigative leave and forbidden from 
coming onto school property or having contact with students or staff. His employment with the school was 
terminated. ” 
The victim’s attorney, Steve Estey, has experience 
and expertise in dealing with cases of institutional 
child sexual abuse. He explained the process of 
“grooming” that often occurs in situations like these, 
where young students grow slowly accustomed to 
being touched around the predator or pedophile over 
weeks and months. 
“When you drop your kid off at school, you have 
no choice but to trust the school has taken the time 
and effort to make sure that sexual abuse doesn’t 
happen in schools, ” Estey told the UCSD Guardian.  
“When you know the statistics that one in four 
children will have been sexually abused by the time 
they’re 18, that’s such a big problem … When juries 
hear that a child has been sexually abused on campus, 
they’ll look at the school and say ‘How could this 
happen under your watch?’”
In the case of Walter Solomon, Estey cites evidence 
that there were red flags about his conduct many 
years before the current case. He was allegedly known 
as ‘Pedo, ’ short for pedophile, among some of the 
students. 
“Many years before Solomon sexually abused my 
client, he had been zip-tying some of the hands of 
female students and doing inappropriate things to 
them, ” Estey said to the Guardian. “They didn’t put B y Rebecca Chong  Senior Staff WriterPREUSS
The UCSD and Y ale researchers did not explore why Facebook use causes diminished well-SCITECH
BY  K e v i n   P i c h i n t e
Staff Writer
BY  A r m o n i e   M e n d e z
News Editorial Assistant
Facebook Negatively Affects Well-Being of Site’s Users
“From left to right: New AS Pres. Richard Altenhoff and AS Vice-Pres. Herv Sweetwood are shown receiving the gavel of authority from Jim 
Heflin and Richard Moncreiff at the Installation of Officers. The ceremony was held at T orrey Pines Inn on May 19. ” 
Triton Times, Volume I Issue I.CAMPUS
See BEER , page 3See PREUSS , page 3
See FACEBOOK , page 3
SENIOR SEND-OFFS 
CLass  of  2017
FEA TURES,  P age  62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla(cannot be
combined)$100 OFF
$75FOR ONLYof any order over $550
10 mini burritos (you 
pick any 2), 10 cheese 
enchiladas, chips, salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce.$150FOR ONLY Large taco tray
(36 tacos), rice, 
beans, chips salsa, 
guacamole, hot sauce
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17
EXP 7/5/17EXP 7/5/171 Month FREE !
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/17.
Quick & Easy – Re nt Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours:  9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.co m/ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Merci a tous.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Molly Chen
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Naftali Burakovsky
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Aarthi Venkat
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Alicia Lepler
Brittney Lu
Annika Olives
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Nadia Link
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
News Editor
 
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker
@ucsdguardianRippling muscle disease is a 
condition characterized by unusual 
sensitivity of the muscles to 
movement and pressure. The disease 
is an autosomal dominant disorder, 
meaning one copy of the altered 
gene that codes for this disease, 
CAV3, in each cell is enough to 
pass it on. The gene provides 
instruction for the production of 
caveolin-3 protein which is found in 
the membrane of muscle cells. The 
CAV3 mutations cause a shortage 
in the amount of caveolin-3 protein, 
which is responsible for organizing other molecules necessary for cell 
signaling and maintenance as well 
as calcium regulation in muscle 
cells. According to research, the 
reduction in calcium regulation 
results in the disruption of normal 
calcium levels in the muscle tissue 
which result in abnormal muscle 
contraction in response to stimuli.
 The primary muscles affected 
are the proximal muscles close to 
the center of the body, especially 
the thigh muscles. For most people 
with this condition, stretching the 
muscles causes visual ripples to go 
across the muscle, lasting from five 
to twenty seconds. A sudden impact 
on the muscles results in the muscle mounding or having repetitive 
tensing, which could be painful 
and last up to thirty seconds.Of 
those with the disorder, many may 
have hypertrophy, or overgrown 
muscles, which are most likely in 
the calves. Those affected have an 
abnormal gait, such as walking on 
their tiptoes. Cramping, fatigue, and 
muscle stiffness are also common 
symptoms, especially after exercise 
or in cold weather.
 The diagnosis of this disease is 
done by genetic testing as well as 
normal investigation by a physician 
into previous conditions, family 
history, and other relevant health 
factors. There is currently no specific treatments for this disorder, as it 
is a genetic disease. Management 
is the usual course of treatment 
and is dependent on each patient’s 
symptoms and needed support. 
Management techniques include 
weight control to avoid obesity, use 
of mechanical aids such as canes 
or walkers, social and emotional 
support communities, and physical 
therapy to promote mobility and 
prevent contractions. 
 Altered Gene is Enough For Genetic Passing of  Rippling Muscle DiseaseDISEASE OF THE WEEK
BY  R e v a t i    R as h i n g k a r
Staff Writer
Rev a ti   Rashingkar  rrashing@ucsd.eduThe disease is a autosomal dominant disorder that results in muscle mounding and repetitive tensing for those diagnosed.
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  The projects consist of a small 
canister that upon moon landing, 
will mix yeast and wort, which will 
then start the fermentation process 
to produce the alcohol.
Original Gravity’s beer-brewing 
experiment landed them in the 
finals, however, the team faced a 
devastating loss. 
“It was very disheartening to 
hear, however, we were not going to 
quit, ” Ashari said.
After the loss, Ashari reached 
out to team Synergy Moon, another 
finalist in the competition.
“I chose them in particular 
because they emphasized the same 
ideals and principles as we did, ” 
Ashari said. “I then wrote up a short, 
sweet, yet concise email stating who 
we were and if our small canister 
can have a spot on their rocket 
to the moon in 2017. The CEO 
of the international space company 
[Synergy Moon] then responded back to me accepting my offer. I was 
ecstatic. ”
After much more talk, the two 
teams signed contracts giving 
Original Gravity a space for their 
canister on Synergy Moon’s lunar 
landing campaign. In addition, 
Original Gravity was also offered 
seven LEO flights, allowing them to 
brew beer not only on the moon but 
also while in orbit around Earth. 
Original Gravity’s partnership 
with Synergy Moon allows for 
more freedom and opportunities to 
conduct multiple experiments while 
in space. The team has already made 
plans to produce wine and bread as 
well.
As for the now, the team is 
working on its canister to ensure 
positive results for the lunar project.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
someone’s post, creating a post or 
clicking a link had little contrast 
on the impact on users. The overall 
results suggested that well-being 
declines due to the quantity of using 
Facebook or social media, rather 
than just quality of use.  
Shakya told the UCSD Guardian 
that their study didn’t measure the 
way Facebook leads to a diminished 
well-being.
“Our study didn’t measure the 
mechanisms by which [a diminished 
well-being] might have occurred so 
we can only speculate, ” Shakya said. 
“ Also, it is important to consider 
that any one study is only evidence 
of a trend, not definitive proof. 
After evidence accumulates that 
case for any one explanation can get 
stronger. ”
However, she did offer her insight 
on how people can come to the 
conclusion to start using Facebook 
less, though this is a tough obstacle. “Using [Facebook] less is 
complicated as it can be addictive, 
and there are many instantaneous 
reinforcements for using it, such as 
the thrill of seeing likes or getting 
comments on a post. I think, 
however, awareness of the issue and 
intentional attention to in-person 
relationships is a good start. ”
The Pew Research Center found 
that 76 percent of Americans 
use Facebook daily, leading to a 
decreased mental state.
A study by the University of 
Missouri came to the conclusion 
that surveilling other profiles led to 
destructive behavior. The research 
found that symptoms of depression 
among Facebook users were more 
probable if a person’s post triggers 
the feeling of jealousy among users. any additional supervision on him, so 
what he did was he was grooming 
the female students over a number of 
years. ”
Etsey expressed an optimistic 
outlook of how verdicts like these, 
with large financial outcomes, have the 
potential to foster positive change in 
institutions and systems.
“[I]nstitutions don’t take notice of 
a verdict of half a million, but when it’s 
$10-20 million, that’s when they will 
make changes, ” Etsey said emphatically. 
“Other industries will look at them and 
say, ‘What did they do down there in 
San Diego to get hit by a big verdict like 
that? We need to make sure we’re doing 
things so we don’t get hit with a verdict 
like that. ’ We can create positive change 
with larger verdicts. ”
A trial has been set for February 
2018.▶ PREUSS,  from page 1Solomon Was Nicknamed 
‘Pedo’ by His Students 
Rebecca Chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu Kevin Pichinte   kpichint@ucsd.eduShakya: Facebook Is Addictive, So Reducing Use Is Hard Original Gravity Will Make Wine and Bread as Well
Armonie Mendez   aemendez@ucsd.edu▶ FACEBOOK,  from page 1 ▶ BEER,  from page 1
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In just 12 days, I will be joining 
my peers in the class of 2017 
as we walk across RIMAC 
field and earn our degrees. Four 
years of hard work, late nights 
and exorbitant amounts of coffee 
have accumulated in a moment of 
pure happiness. I, like many other 
graduates, meet my commencement 
with mixed emotions, excited 
for my future beyond UC San 
Diego while equally terrified of 
the idea of being a “real adult. ” 
Participating in the final graduating 
activities — picking up caps and 
gowns, attending Grad Nite, taking 
graduation photos — makes the 
wait until that final moment even 
sweeter. However, despite this being 
the class of 2017’s shining moment, 
the upcoming graduation has been 
overshadowed by the university’s 
decision over our commencement 
speaker, the fourteenth Dalai Lama. 
The university’s announcement in 
February has been met with mixed 
emotions from the graduating class. 
While some students are honored 
that His Holiness will be giving our 
final commencement address, others 
are outraged over the choice. This 
begs the question, should graduates 
be given a choice when it comes to 
selecting our own commencement 
speakers?
Various factors play a role in how commencement speakers are chosen. 
Some universities attempt to attract 
big-name guests — whether through 
large budgets or other means — 
in an attempt to bring notoriety 
and publicity. For other schools, 
finding a speaker that represents 
the core value of the institution and 
its students is given top priority. 
Pepperdine University, for example, 
emphasizes diversity, taking into 
account speaker’s race, gender and 
accomplishments. Still, some schools 
like Brown University have even 
attempted to step away from the commencement speaker dilemma 
by only having students speak at 
the graduation ceremonies. There is 
not a good way of quantifying who 
universities should choose as their 
commencement speaker; even the 
most well-thought-out choices can 
still be met with opposition. 
The problem doesn’t lie entirely 
on who will speak, but on how 
they are chosen.  Although the 
policies range from university to 
university, one thing is certain; little 
input is taken from the students 
themselves. Excluding students’ suggestions has led to a common 
sight during the commencement 
season: a disgruntled student 
body. Graduates at USC’s Bethune-
Cookman University booed their 
commencement speaker, Secretary 
of Education Betsy DeVos, so 
loudly that the commencement 
was cancelled in mid-May. A few 
days later, over a hundred Notre 
Dame graduates walked out of their 
commencement ceremony last week 
while Vice President Mike Pence 
was giving his speech. As one of the 
Notre Dame graduates who walked 
out mentioned, “Commencement 
is not a moment for academic 
exchange or political dialogue. It’s a 
celebration of all of our hard work. ” 
A commencement ceremony should 
transcend a political discussion, 
it should truly be a celebration 
of the graduates themselves, and 
giving those honored little to no 
opportunity to be a part of that 
process is wrong. Although many 
have argued that this issue stems 
from close-minded “snowflake” 
college graduates who refuse 
to listen and adhere to differing 
viewpoints, the real problem lies 
with universities’ refusal to consult 
their graduating classes. I don’t have 
a problem with administrations 
inviting controversial speakers from 
either side of the political spectrum 
to give speeches at the university — Have you ever just finished 
your meal at a nice 
restaurant, only to have your 
plate savagely taken away from you 
by a server while both your parents 
are still consuming their delicious 
dish? Y ou take out your phone or 
stare into the wall, waiting for the 
family to finish up so you can strike 
up another conversation. If, like me, 
you have been in this position, I can 
assure you it is just one of the weird 
eating habits that Americans possess. 
Coming from France, birthplace 
of the sophisticated French cuisine, 
it was surprising to me to see that 
the difference between America and 
France extends to the act of eating. 
For one, the habit of taking away 
plates as quickly as possible and 
throwing the check in your face 
is just downright rude. In France, 
you may sit on a terrasse for hours 
at a time trying to get a server’s 
attention, which is annoying in its 
own respect, but at least you would 
enjoy the time spent eating. This 
aspect of the eating experience is 
disturbed in America by servers who 
are constantly coming up to you in 
the middle of a bite asking you how 
your meal is.
However, it is at home that these 
differences manifest themselves the 
most. In American culture, snacking 
is king. To the French, the story is 
different. French people spend an 
average of two hours and 20 minutes 
eating during their day, and despite 
the occasional mid-afternoon snack, 
spend most of their time sitting down 
at a table with relatives enjoying 
cooked meals. There are multiple 
advantages to this custom: Taking 
more time to eat mostly means eating 
less, and having lunch or dinner 
becomes more of a hobby than a 
chore and it enhances familial bonds. 
To me personally, eating at 8:15 p.m. 
— like over one-third of the French 
population — was a relief, because I 
knew that every night, the hour or so 
I would spend at the dinner table was 
the only time of the day I would see 
my father.  
The National Institute of 
Statistics and Economic Studies 
established that “eating procures 
almost as much pleasure as reading 
or listening to music. Eating alone, 
at work or at home, is often seen 
as a trial. ” And that’s just the thing. 
Eating a meal in France is a question 
of community, not one of necessity. 
Food in France is ingrained in 
culture, and sharing plays a big role, 
whereas food in the United States is 
nonessential and individualistic.
In recent years, food trends in 
France have evolved. The number 
of people over 60 who snack is 
twice as much as younger people 
sampled. More fast food chains 
have franchises in France than ever 
before, and more French people are 
now embracing specific diets that 
contrast sharply with traditional 
French gastronomy. Despite those 
changes, however, French traditions 
have proven to hold strong. Time 
spent at the table has increased since 
the 1980s. The traditional French 
meal with its two main characteristics 
— communitarianism and regularity  
— remains an immovable staple of 
how French people conduct their day. 
And it’s for the better: Keeping those 
traditions alive adds dimensions and 
depth to meals, making them an 
enjoyable daily event rather than a 
chore.Saving the 
Trash PandasFast Feeding 
or French 
FeastingMARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDUACROSS 
THE GLOBE
Yet another injustice is about 
to be committed on this 
campus. That’s right, I’m 
talking about the imminent removal 
of the unofficial school mascot, the 
noble raccoon. We are approaching 
the end of the quarter; these are 
trying times for the student body, 
and as we lay here vulnerable, UC San Diego plans to strike again. This time 
they are attacking us where it hurts 
most, in our hearts, by setting up 
traps in Warren College in order for 
these cute creatures to be “relocated 
to a more remote area. ” This is an 
affront to the very core of the student 
spirit on this campus and I simply 
will not stand for it.
   Warren is home to the Jacobs 
School of Engineering; it houses all of 
those depressed science, technology, engineering, math majors with too 
many classes and few joys in life. 
Raccoons are the one highlight in 
their dreary existence and for Warren 
to take that away from them is 
downright cruel. They are more than 
a symbol of optimism; they are a vital 
part of this college’s culture, what 
distinguishes them from the rest. By 
removing them, UCSD is robbing 
this part of campus from what is 
rightfully theirs.    The impact of the raccoons on 
this campus goes beyond brightening 
the day of the future engineers of 
America. Raccoons have become a 
symbol of our campus as a whole, 
and they must be protected and kept 
on this land. The raccoon is resilient 
and clever; it persists in the face of 
adversity and thrives in the darkness, 
all characteristics demonstrated by the 
school’s population. The trash pandas 
are the embodiment of the UC San 
Diego spirit, of our ability to come 
to this campus in varying degrees 
of willingness and make do with 
what we have, to overcome 
the many administrative 
hurdles (tuition hikes, 
capped majors, insufficient 
class slots, the parking) in 
the perpetual journey to 
success. Just like raccoons dig 
through the trash cans and 
bushes, we too dig through the many 
campus problems in order to find our 
way to the tasty cheeto bag at the end 
(our diploma). As they thrive in the 
darkness of the night, we thrive in the 
darkness of obscurity, a school that, 
despite not getting mass recognition 
from the general public, continues to 
make tremendous strides in diverse 
fields of research and culture. 
   They may be the poor man’s lemur, 
but the rich man wishes he could be 
so lucky. These cute fluffy critters 
might meander throughout the 
campus grounds, but they have found 
a home in Earl Warren College, 
Sixth College and Eleanor Roosevelt 
College. To remove them would be 
to take away a pillar of this school. 
UCSD takes away our right to a free 
market economy, our appetite and 
quite often our water, but taking away 
the raccoons crosses the line. Leave 
our raccoons where they belong: in 
our bushes and in our trash cans. No 
matter where they go, there will be no 
way to remove them from the soul of 
this institution.
Student Input on Commencement Speaker 
Would Make Ceremony More Representative
BY  M E G A N  M O N G E S / /  
SENIOR ST AFF WRITER
BY  A D R I A N A  B A R R I O S /  
 ST AFF WRITER
If the university 
really wants to honor 
us, then we should 
have the right to 
shape our ceremony 
to reflect our values 
and convictions.
See COMMENCEMENT, page 4 ▶ADRIANA BARRIOS    A7BARRIO@UCSD.EDUILLUSTRA TION B Y CHRISTINA 
CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UC San Diego
Student Summer Pass
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited  
rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. 
(Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.)
Pass Valid June 6 – September 30  
Online sales only: June 5 – August 3 1
Current registration/enrollment
for Summer Sessions or
continuing students from
Spring 2017 to Fall 2017 required .
For details visit:  summerpass.ucsd.edu
PUBLIC NOTICE
The University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego) proposes to 
adopt a Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) for the Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography (SIO) Marine Conservation Facility project in accor -
dance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
The proposed project would renovate an existing four-story, 26,967-gross 
square foot (GSF) shell of a building (previously known as Building D) to 
provide laboratories, offices, and classrooms for the Center for Marine 
Biodiversity and Conservation on the SIO campus. In addition, a portion 
of the project site (which is currently a concrete slab previously known as 
Building A) would include a two-story addition totaling approximately 
15,147 GSF. This addition would include a lecture room/event space, 
conference room, visualization center for public outreach, and a catering 
kitchen. A café with an outdoor shaded terrace and seating would also be 
included on the second floor. Mechanical and electrical equipment, which 
are currently housed in the basement of Building A, would remain in 
order to serve the project. Additional improvements to the project site 
would include the provision of approximately 62 parking spaces on the 
western and northern portions of the site for faculty, staff, and visitors, an 
open space terraced on the western portion of the building, landscaping, 
and improvements to the Coastal Trail network. The proposed SIO 
Marine Conservation Facility, which would be located at the intersection 
of La Jolla Shores Drive and Biological Grade, is intended to provide 
research and instructional space, as well as public space to accommodate 
education and outreach activities on the SIO campus, including seminars 
and SIO campus events. 
Based on the Initial Study (IS) prepared for the project, it has been 
determined that the project would not have a significant effect on the 
environment that cannot be mitigated. Therefore, an MND will be issued. 
Copies of the Draft IS/MND may be viewed at:  
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html  
or by contacting the UC San Diego Campus Planning Office, 9500 
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0074, (858) 534-6515. Public review of 
the Draft IS/MND will extend from June 2, 2017 to July 3, 2017. Any 
comments regarding the accuracy of the Draft IS/MND should be 
directed to the UC San Diego Campus Planning Office at the above 
address.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
just not on my graduation day.  
The class of 2017 wasn't 
given the ability to provide any 
recommendations for who it would 
like hear at the commencement 
address. Given the expected outrage 
over having such a controversial 
speaker, it would have been a smart 
choice for UCSD’s administration to 
consult the graduating class before 
booking the Dalai Lama. Other 
schools, like Dillard University 
in New Orleans and Pepperdine 
University in Malibu, allow their 
graduates to submit suggestions of 
who they would like to hear speak. 
While I personally do not have 
any grievances towards having His 
Holiness speak, I can understand 
the hurt and anger some of my fellow graduates have. And while I 
cannot measurably understand or 
communicate the long-standing and 
complex history regarding the Dalai 
Lama’s actions and the Chinese 
people, I think it is important that all 
graduates feel celebrated and welcome 
on their commencement day. Like 
Notre Dame and USC, it seems as if 
the UCSD administration failed to 
see how its choices in commencement 
speakers could offend the very people 
they are supposed to be honoring.
It’s important as college graduates 
that we have an open mind to 
differing views and opinions, and 
we should be able to have civilized 
and respectful debates on all issues. 
However, these political and social 
debates do not have to occur on 
what is so far the biggest day of 
our lives. Universities across the country including UCSD need to 
start taking the graduates themselves 
into consideration when planning 
major events like commencement; 
our voices should be heard. These 
institutions cannot claim that they 
are celebrating our academic and 
personal achievements if our input 
is continuously disregarded and 
ignored. If the university really wants 
to honor us, then we should have 
the right to shape our ceremony to 
reflect our values and convictions. 
Regardless of the mixed emotions 
and reactions to the Dalai Lama’s 
address, we as the graduating class 
of 2017 will leave UCSD a little 
smarter, much poorer and ready to 
take on the world. 
MEGAN MONGES      MONGESMEGAN@UCSD.EDU▶ COMMENCEMENT, from page 4
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Illustrations by Christina Carlson
Photos by Shirley TangDear UC San Diego, UCSD Guardian, whoever else 
might be reading this,
As I am writing, it’s finally hitting me that this 
Monday’s issue is the last one the UCSD Guardian 
will publish while I have access to my ucsd.edu 
email. 
My time at UCSD has been defined by 
adventures and meaningful relationships, 
most of which developed directly or indirectly 
because of the Guardian. These interactions 
and others, even the ones that only lasted as 
long as an interview, have, in some way, changed 
my perspective and my trajectory, personal and 
professional. 
While I could write a book about my time at the 
Guardian, what it comes down to is thank you. Thank 
you so much to past editors for taking the time to 
mentor me and to teach me that to be successful at the 
Guardian, or elsewhere, you need to care about the work, 
not the pay or occasional perks (like a resume line, among 
other things, depending on what you define as a perk). That 
being frustrated and overworked is sometimes part of the 
process and that, if you do your best, those sacrifices (sleep, 
going out, having a “normal” college life) can be worth it for you as well as your team. 
To Marcus and Rosina who led the Guardian for the past two 
quarters, thank you for your relentless commitment to leading 
and guiding the Guardian to be the best that it can be. Your 
work ethic and dedication to pursuing the values of integrity and 
excellence are inspiring and I am so fortunate to have been able 
to work alongside both of you. 
To Sam and the 2017–18 Guardian editors and writers, 
congratulations! The Guardian has experienced a lot of changes 
these past couple of years and leading the Guardian is definitely 
bound to be exciting, fun and, at times, stressful. You all 
have chosen to stay with the Guardian because you value the 
organization as an institution, outlet, creative space, means of 
socializing, et cetera and therefore have some interest in making 
sure we carry on for another 50 years. That’s what matters. All of 
you have incredible talent but that will have little, if any, value if 
you do not respect each other as teammates. Instead of arguing 
over what direction the Guardian “should” go in, embrace your 
differences and use them as a blueprint to consciously create a 
dynamic team. Start there and you are bound to maximize your 
time here for yourself, future Guardians, students and everyone 
else who reads our articles. 
Best of luck team! :)Tina  Butoiu Editor In chief
I think of myself as Alexander Hamilton: always writing, 
never enough time. I have spent a large chunk of my four years 
in the corner office of the Original Student Center, writing, 
editing, scrambling, sometimes yelling, always wishing for 
more time. But my time is up — have I done enough? “What is 
a legacy? It’s planting seeds in a garden you never get to see. ” I 
have had the privilege of seeing former editors’ seeds grow — 
from Laira to Zev to Aleks to Vincent to Tina. And I hope that 
I have at least planted one seed to grow into something bigger 
than me (not that that’s hard). 
The UCSD Guardian was the first thing I joined at UC San 
Diego. It was my shot to share my voice, to hear others’ voices 
and to be part of a community of people equally as weird and 
crazy as I am. My UC San Diego experience was difficult. I 
struggled and failed countless times, but I am grateful for being challenged here, both at UCSD and the Guardian. 
It was always satisfying to send the paper to 
the printer at the end of a long day, to realize 
that the story will always get told, life will 
always move on. How lucky am I to be part of 
something at such a time as this. 
The Guardian was around for 50 years before 
me, and I’m sure it’ll be around much longer after 
me. I am a tiny piece in its history, and I will always 
cherish my time here. To Sam and all the returning 
and new editors, this paper is bigger than us. Don’t let 
our own narrow perspectives limit us from doing more. 
Be visionary but practical. And get some fresh air every 
now and then. I took my shot with the Guardian; do not 
throw away yours. Rosina  Garcia Editor In chief
When I joined the Features section almost two years 
ago, I had no idea how much The Guardian would 
define my last two years at UCSD. At the G, I found 
a group of people who were passionate about the 
issues that affected our campus, from tuition hikes 
to the switch to D-1. Some of my best memories 
from working for this The Guardian have been 
meeting the unique people that define our 
community, from the President of A.S. to the 
volunteers at Border Angels. I’m especially glad 
that I was able to make a mark on this campus 
this year as editor of Features, a position that taught 
me what it meant to be a leader and let me work 
with a diverse, motivated group of writers. Features 
has made a lot of noise this year: from interviewing 
Trump supporters before the election to interviewing 
Chinese International Students about the Dalai Lama, 
we’ve managed to gain the Guardian a good deal of fame (or 
infamy). I owe all of this, of course, to my amazing staff, who 
always went the extra mile and exceeded my expectations.I would like to thank Tina, Marcus and Rosina for their 
leadership this year, through all its ups and downs (and for 
putting up with the articles we sent at 2 p.m. on production 
day). As difficult as being an editor in chief may be, you all 
cared deeply about the Guardian and strived to make it the best 
newspaper it could be. To Sam, I wish you all the best in leading 
the G next year: you have incredible enthusiasm and a great 
vision that will take the paper to new heights.
Next year I leave Features in the hands of two very capable 
people who rose to the top in the blink of an eye: Susanti and 
Tim. In the short time you helped lead the section this quarter 
you impressed me with your enthusiasm and willingness to learn. 
Like I did a year ago, you probably feel intimidated by the task 
ahead of you, but I’m confident that you’ll both do an amazing 
job. You have a great team to work with: truly some of the best, 
most dedicated writers I have ever known. Despite how busy I 
may be next year, I will be sure to read what you put out every 
week. Keep up the tradition of in-depth, provocative writing that 
we started this year, and make the Guardian.Oliver   Kel ton Features Editor
Senior FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
I once thought that I would be a novelist but 
that was too ambitious; a journalist perhaps, but 
I was afraid of the criticism and politics that 
come with it. Writing was too political and 
too personal, too big and too small — and so 
I abandoned my love of writing and delved into 
the surety of science. All throughout college, I felt 
like I was missing an important part of the puzzle. It 
was only on impulse that I joined the UCSD Guardian 
during my third year. It was during the hours I spent 
frantically emailing people for interviews, transcribing voice recordings from my phone and turning around news 
pieces in a few days that I began to understand how powerful 
journalism is. I no longer feel afraid to delve into the many 
uncomfortable things happening in our world right now. As I 
move onto my career, I have learned that I love the creativity and 
confidence that comes with being able to tell someone’s story in 
just the right way. Whatever my future holds, I’m grateful for 
the worldview, friendships and community that the Guardian 
has given me. Rebecca   Chongsenior staff writer - News
I met many of my closest friends, including bae, here at the 
Guardian, and I’m extremely lucky to have been here at the 
same time as them. Their passions, their smarts, their charms. 
They are primarily what make this place valuable. Without 
them, my experiences at the G would’ve been wholly empty.
Beyond the people, this organization is immensely 
complicated. Everyone comes in with their own ideas about 
how a newspaper — especially a student one — should be run, 
often resulting in tense disputes about what should change and what should remain. Though often demoralized 
by these conflicts, I consider myself fortunate 
to have been a part of these fights, even when 
the result turned out contrary to my hopes. 
They’ve helped me gain a better understanding of 
disagreement and how best to confront it.
Thanks to those who have put up with me or 
helped me in any way. Toster out. Jacky  To News Editor
Wow, I can’t believe this is the last thing I’ll ever be writing 
for the UCSD Guardian. It seems as if there’s so much to say and 
do, and so little time left.
I want to first thank the Guardian staff, including former 
Opinion Editor Sasha Pollock, for giving me the opportunity to 
join this little family of highly opinionated, incredibly friendly 
and interesting people. Thanks Quinn and Nate for always 
providing great feedback to my pieces, for letting me complain 
about Housing Dining Hospitality and for never getting completely pissed at me for missing deadlines. 
Thank you to the rest of the Opinion writers 
(both past and present); reading your work 
encouraged me to become a better writer. I will 
miss our spirited debates and funny conversations. 
Most of all, thank you to the Guardian for giving 
me the privilege to share my voice with the UC San 
Diego community. It’s an amazing and weird feeling 
to be able to share my thoughts, feelings and hopes with Megan   MongesSenior Staff 
Writer - Opinion
I’ve been on the UCSD Guardian for all four years 
of my college career and its been a lot of bopping to 
music that is too loud and having existential crises on 
the design room floor.  It’s been a wild four years. I met 
the love of my life at the Guardian @OlgaGolubkova and I 
met a lanky ginger boy that basically lives at my apartment 
now. Being on the design team has been an experience. 
Thanks @Aleya for being the design Binch I always needed in my life, if you stop using Bebas we aren’t friends anymore.
Shoutout to all of the people on the Guardian I like, you 
know who you are. If you ever miss me just put on my playlist 
with Britney’s “Work B****” 50 times in a row and remember 
that you’re always built to spill.Josel ynn  Ordaz Design Editor
Christian 
Duar teChristina 
CarlsonNaft ali
Burak ov sk y
Photo editorArt  editorT&D EditorA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // BRITTNEY LU & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The UCSD Guardian is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, 
meaning our paper’s founders are 50 years older than me, making 
me feel both very young and somehow old. This paper has a very 
storied history and has undergone a lot of functional changes. Like our 
paper, fashion at UC San Diego has also changed. Three trends stand out.
1967 is just one year off of the 
Summer of Love, and people on 
college campuses were not afraid to 
show it. Led by anti-war sentiment, 
the hippie movement dominated 
youth culture and college students 
all over the country and oversaw 
students equipping themselves with 
“flowers in your hair” or settling 
for a headband, belts and boots. 
For boys, the jeans and jean jackets 
were a must, while girls adorned the occasional miniskirt or long and 
wavy floral dress. Nevertheless both 
added as much fringe to their outfits 
as possible. Two elements that were a 
staple of the era and are still relevant 
to campus today: long and unkempt 
hair (yes, I’m looking at you, resident 
of Jacobs’ underground level) and 
the “peace and love” sign, a distinct 
feature of the general atmosphere of 
the Original Student Center and the 
Che Cafe.Almost the Summer of LoveToday, girls follow fashion trends 
such as athleisure or Instagram-
able Coachella-gear. But 50 years 
ago, students could emulate Jackie 
Kennedy or Brigitte Bardot, two 
diametrically opposite trend setters 
for inspiration. The ‘60s were a 
period of liberation, symbolized by 
one Mary Quant, who popularized a 
youth movement that was not afraid 
to show some leg, with shapeless mini 
dresses and skirts, and embraced 
the “youth” look after a decade of 
mature female wear. Amongst other 
trends were pantsuits, brought back 
from the ashes by once-hopeful 
Hillary Clinton, and colored everything, from tights to sweaters 
to jackets, that contrast sharply with 
the overall tones of white, gray and 
black that I, among so many of my 
other contemporaries, love to wear 
on the daily. In conjugation with 
the hippie movement, the ‘60s were 
a time for women to break free, 
challenge social norms, like how 
short a dress can, and was an era 
where youth culture took central 
stage. Challenging social norms is 
something our generation is very 
competent at. And since the ‘60s, 
hems and fists have only risen, while 
pants have taken a hike in favor of 
leggings. Looking up to Jackie O
Men’s fashion in the 1960s 
was as always more boring than 
women’s, but a few key changes 
appeared during that time. The 60’s 
style remained pretty conservative 
— think “Mad Men” — but college 
students adopted a more relaxed 
look that combined elements of 
the hippie trend and larger ties and 
belts, wider lapels and longer collars. 
The plain suit design was sometimes 
rendered more fashionable by geometric designs. The casual wear 
was defined by polo and knit shirts 
in various colors, and the 1960s saw 
the popularization of the sweater 
for a casual yet  elegant style. But 
when looking at today’s fashion, 
there aren’t too many similarities 
to draw. The typical suit and tie has 
become an anomaly for the likes of 
bro-tanks, social media “merch” and 
the California uniform of shorts and 
flip-flops.Suit and Tie
A lot of things have changed in 50 years, especially what we can call 
“youth culture. ” But one thing will always stay the same: we will always be 
rebels to the cause (or clothes) of our parents, just like they were to theirs. 
But personally, today’s fashion trends make me wish that I was born 50 years 
earlier. 50 YEARS OF
By Marcus Thuillier // Guardian Editor In ChiefFASHIONThe Thing To Do —
To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the UCSD Guardian’s existence, Lifestyle takes a look back on the history 
of traditions UC San Diego students take pride in. From late night food runs to the classic night out and even 
on-campus shenanigans, the student lifestyle identity wouldn’t be the same without these iconic classics.  
While no one knows for certain the true, and legally patented, origins of this practice, most taco enthusiasts 
trace the first “Taco Tuesday” to 1989. Based in Wisconsin (oddly enough), Mexican food chain Taco John’s curated, 
perhaps controversially, the phrase and ignited a movement across the nation for $2 tacos, cheap margaritas and the 
promise of gracing Tuesdays with something to look forward to, all thanks to some innovative marketing coupled 
with strategic alliteration. San Diegans don’t have to travel far for authentic tacos, and Taco Tuesday has become an 
iconic rite of passage for a genuine UCSD experience. From Taco Villa on campus, all the way to Tacos El Gordo in 
Chula Vista, or midway at Fat Fish in Pacific Beach, UCSD has been blessed enough to enjoy a taco or two (or four 
or five) for more than 20 years. T aco 'Bout Tradition 
A Boomin' Business
Call it what you want — boba, pearl milk tea, bubble tea, beverage from the heavens — the names may change, 
but the classic boba at the bottom and unbreakable plastic seal at the top combination is here to stay. This Taipei 
staple, also innovated in the late 1980s, made its way to the U.S. in the ‘90s and settled in our hearts since the early 
2000s. Founder of Boba Guys Ben Chin postulates that while this sweet staple “started as a foreign tradition and was 
eventually absorbed into American food culture, ” it has become a cultural broker of sorts, intermixing the Taiwanese 
and American palates. In San Diego, places like Tea Station offer a more classic sip while places like Square Bar Cafe 
or ShareTea bring a hybrid flair to specialty drinks centered around boba and bakeries like 85 Degrees pair boba with 
Taiwanese snacks — like pineapple cakes, fresh taro buns or savory scallion pancakes. No one can deny that boba 
has become foundational to the UCSD college diet; even TapEx has made a cameo in one of Wong Fu Production’s 
odes to UCSD.
Undress to Destress
Every finals week, certain traditions take place to break away from pushing the pencil. Some scream for five 
minutes in exchange for a doughnut, while others strip down and make their way into Geisel Library, running and 
reclaiming a space that is more commonly known to be one of silence and solitude. Reportedly started in UCLA in 
2011, the undie run has become a true University of California tradition and has even made its way into more public 
streets as a form of protest, fundraising or just displaying general hooligan happiness. Whatever the reason, UCSD 
has since seen its fair share of granny panties and sports bras to last a lifetime. 
A Da y a t Balboa
Travelling way back to 1868, what is now known as Balboa Park started off as a 1400-acre patch of green called 
“City Park” by civic officials. With more history behind the architecture and design of this park than Leslie Knope 
could list off the top of her head, Balboa Park has seen its fair share of renowned patrons and global expositions and 
is now home to 17 museums, a zoo, a theater and multiple gardens. The urbanist’s delight, the tourist’s must-see and 
the UCSD student’s first choice in wooing that chemistry class crush, Balboa Park is the intersection of rich culture, 
open space and the place to play my personal favorite game: “Where are all the free exhibits at?”
Ever ything's Coming Up Roses
If you haven’t taken a profile picture or graduation announcement photo here, you’re missing out on a social 
media must that takes advantage of this floral feast for the eyes. Since the 1920s, what started as a vegetable and 
flower producer, later known as Frazee Flowers in the 1940s, has become a tourist destination and backdrop to many 
a ‘gram. Now known as the Carlsbad Flower Fields, these 50 acres boast a variety of colorful ranunculus, poinsettias, 
orchids and roses. Open only from mid-March to May, the flower fields have been the ultimate picturesque day out 
for UCSD students, residents and tourists alike for nearly 20 years. So if you’re ever in need of a study break in the 
height of spring quarter, head to see what is blooming and budding over at Carlsbad.
Then and NowBy Brittney Lu // 
Lifestyle Co-Editor
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORAILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONLIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9HERE it all comes together.
This is not an offer to sell but intended for information only. Renderings, photography, illustrations, ﬂoor plans, amenities, ﬁnishes and other information described herein are representative only and are not intended to 
reﬂect any speciﬁc feature, amenity, unit condition or view when built. No representation and warranties are made with regard to the accuracy, completeness or suitability of the information published herein. The developer 
reserves the right to make modiﬁcation in materials, speciﬁcations, plans, pricing, designs, scheduling and delivery without prior notice. Represented by S&P Realty Services Corp. CalBRE# 02012517NOW OPEN FOR PREVIEWING / SAVINACONDOS.COM  
Be among the ﬁrst to preview one of Downtown’s most highly anticipated new communities.
SALES GALLERY OPEN DAILY 11AM-5PM  /  701 FRONT ST   /  619.269.2188With something to love in every direction, this contemporary collection of 
1, 2 & 3 bedroom high-rise homes is just steps from the bay and vibrant 
Little Italy neighborhood. Inside, modern appointments, sophisticated style 
and inviting social retreats create a distinctly new lifestyle. Welcome to 
remarkable urban waterfront living.10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
Sustaining 
Sustainability
Wow. Fifty years is a long 
time, so much time 
spent, so much wisdom 
gained … but I mean, not by me. 
I’ve only been around for less than 
half of that. For the 22 years that 
I have been alive, there have been 
such dramatic changes in society, 
politics, the climate, etc. And right 
now, we are in an unprecedented 
time of change. With all of the 
constant shifts in the world around 
us, the question pops up, how do 
we sustain positive actions that 
can carry into a better future? Well 
I’m gonna say something that I’m 
sure you’ve heard a million times 
from countless high school history 
teachers: The answer is in our past.
The world was a different 
place 50 years ago. Take it from 
someone who has heard adults and 
old people say that over and over 
again. I personally can’t fathom 
what life was like back then, but I 
know that things are probably better 
today. I know things are far from 
perfect now, but over time, people 
maintained a desire to change the 
world for the better, and we get to 
enjoy the result. Now as we enter 
adulthood, it will be our turn to pick 
up from where others left off. 
The ideal of a future with social 
equity, environmental justice, and 
responsible ecological action is 
sustained by the revolving door of 
people willing to work toward those 
goals. People don’t have to make 
dramatic changes to get there, just 
small ones. It is like cleaning an 
apartment (not that mine is neat 
whatsoever). It is easier to maintain 
through small actions than by doing 
a massive time consuming fix up 
all at once (something I am facing 
right now before the new tenants 
move in). 
The drive to reach a future 
defined by sustainable practices 
is itself sustainable because of the 
positive associations. Everyone 
wants to be headed toward a future 
with vibrant nature, clean air, and 
low energy costs. The desire for 
such a life encourages people to get 
involved and do what they can to 
reach that future. When one entity 
fails to do its part, everyone else is 
willing to pick up the slack. 
The UC San Diego campus 
has changed dramatically since it 
opened its doors in 1960, and The 
UCSD Guardian has been there 
for most of that history, cataloging 
the lives and experiences of the 
students. So many new things are 
planned in the upcoming years, 
from a new college to a trolley to 
reaching zero emissions. There will 
definitely be events worth cataloging 
and it’ll be amazing to see where the 
history of the campus and the path 
to sustainability goes from here.by Nadia Link //  
Lifestyle ColumnistThis week, I chose to pull out articles that were published in the first few 
issues of the Triton Times and attempted to create a snapshot of what life 
was like at UC San Diego in the 1960s. 
Back then, the paper seemed to be more of a place for campus-wide discussion 
— students sent in guest editorials, wrote letters to the editor and there were plenty 
of articles pertaining to politics, school culture and life in general. Though interest 
in newspapers (especially in reading them) has decreased over the years due to 
the convenience and brevity of online articles and media sources, I hope that our 
section can channel what the Triton Times managed to create 50 years ago: a safe 
space to share opinions and thoughts. I hope that future students can go into the 
UCSD Guardian archives, pull up a copy of a 2017 issue and be able to create a 
picture of what campus was like through Lifestyle.  
If you’re inspired, I encourage you to reach out to us at lifestyle@ucsdguardian.
org. We’ d love to hear what you have to say. 
Editor, the Triton Times 
O, the flights of fantasy one’s 
mind can take! As I gaze upon 
the selections for tonight, I shut 
my eyes and visualize what those 
names really connote. Bar-b-qued 
chicken: golden brown, tasting a bit 
charcoalish, thick, succulent meat ... 
then I open my eyes and see ... boiled 
chicken in tomato soup. The other 
choice (alternative?)? Salisbury Steak 
— juicy, tender ground beef, thick 
brown-on-the-outside-pink on-the-
inside ... nope — a little 2”x2” piece 
of coriaceous shoe sole.
SMACK DEM LIPS, HONEY! NOW COMES DE GREENS! 
Brussel sprouts that can be 
mashed to swallowing consistency 
by the tongue; inevitibly carrots, 
tasting like boiled water; and soup 
— perhaps madam cares for corn 
chowder? (clever, those fellows who 
dream up the names!) On to the salad 
bar — feeling like a nice, crisp green 
salad to go with that mouth-watering, 
lead-me-to-the-table steak? Then 
dish out (carefully, mind you! Those 
leaves have seen better days) that 
green, floppy stuff with brown edges. 
If your palate calls for a change (and 
whose doesn’t ?) there is ground carrot or soft potato salad, faithful 
cottage cheese, and many more taste 
treats. Any wonder that I awaken at 
2:00, run to the machines, buy the 
Monday evening special — ham saId 
sandwich — and gobble it down to 
ease the rising pang? My roommate 
dreams of alligators in her stomach 
after one bite; I can’t remember mine, 
thank God. I probably lynched old 
Prophet himself and proclaimed 
“God is Dead — long live the appitites 
of UCSD!!!” 
MUIR FRESHMAN’
—————
This was a letter to the editor that was printed in the November 
1967 issue of the Triton Times. It 
chronicles a Muir freshman’s journey 
navigating through the UCSD food 
offerings, essentially calling them a 
nightmare. 
Now, though I wouldn’t say that 
food at UCSD is necessarily great, it’s 
not terrible, and it gives me enough 
energy to get through the day. I’ve 
started taking to the markets to buy 
my own food when I get tired of 
the dining halls, and even that little 
change for the week can allow you 
to revisit Pines with a better mindset 
(instead of “Oh no, not pasta again. ”).
Dear Editor: 
After two years of a severe 
drought here at UCSD a slight respite 
has saved many students from self-
destruction. To the males it is a time 
for merriment and rejoicing. To the 
females, however, it is a time for 
sadness and despair. Nevertheless, 
we thank you, Provost, and we thank 
all of the other people responsible for 
the event. But most of all we want to 
thank all of the girls who have chosen 
UCSD as their home base for 1967-These snippets are from a November 1968 guest 
editorial called “Take The Fifth, ” which discusses 
the author’s opinion on the impact of American 
voters. Er, lack of impact. “Don’t vote until voting is 
meaningful, ” is how he concludes his piece.
America has always had a problem with voter 
turnout; usually only 50–60 percent of eligible voters 
show up on Election Day. Is it that we feel like our 
one vote doesn’t matter, or do we truly not care who 
is elected? I wonder what this same writer would say 
today, in our political climate. Do we have more of a say or less of a say? 
If this is a problem people have been talking about 
for years, maybe it’s time to think deeply about how 
we can get more Americans to care about politics. 
There are barriers caused by lack of education, lack 
of polling locations and lack of time — to register, 
to wait in line, to take off work. It is a system that 
makes it convenient for people from more affluent 
neighborhoods to vote, but makes it hard for 
minorities to get involved. 
Easier said than done, I know. 
Throwing it Back:
Life in the 60's
By Annika Olives // Lifestyle Co-editor 
68 operations, for they have made 
this happening possible. Y es, the 
female sex has at last arrived at UCSD 
in sufficient numbers, and it is the 
heartfelt hope of the writers of this 
article that they are most definately 
here to stay. 
Affectionately written, Suite 655, 
Argo Hall 
—————
This is another letter to the editor 
from October 1967, talking not about 
a water drought like the one we just 
got out of, but a love drought. I’m 
assuming that, in its beginning years, 
UCSD was attended mainly by males, 
and this was written when more of 
the opposite sex came to the school. 
Not sure why Suite 655 says that this 
is a “time for sadness and despair” for 
females (reference to the Triton Eye, 
maybe?) but it’s funny nonetheless. A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Hailing from UC San 
Diego’s Musicians Club, 
Spent Penny consists of fel -
low Tritons with a passion for 
performance. From Battle of the 
Bands to the UCSD Guardian’s own 
Pocket Office, Spent Penny has utilized its 
own unique talents to provide musical perfor -
mances and emphasize its love for the UCSD community. As they 
approach the end of their undergraduate careers, Adam Kim, 
Connor Schultz, Cuong Luong and Alexander Pelletier took the 
time to sit down with the Guardian and reminisce on their musi -
cal journey.
Guardian: Please introduce yourselves and mention how you 
contribute to the band.
Kim:  I’m Adam Kim and I am a fifth-year general biology ma -
jor with a minor in music [ERC]. I play the guitar and sing lead 
vocals for the band.
Schultz:  Hello, I am a junior with a computer science major 
[Warren]. I am the lead guitarist and back-up vocalist for Spent 
Penny. Sorry, I don’t have a minor in music.
Luong: I am Cuong Luong and am a first-year graduate elec -
trical engineering student [Marshall]. I am the bassist.
Pelletier: Hi, I’m Alexander Pelletier, and I’m a senior with 
a bioengineering: bioinformatics major with a minor in music 
[Warren]. I play the drums for Spent Penny.
Guardian:  How did you all decide to form your band, “Spent 
Penny?”
Kim:  W e  a r e  all  a  pa rt  o f  U C S D ’ s  M u s i c i a n s  Cl u b .  W e  cu r -
rently have a Facebook group consisting of 900+ members. The 
original founder of Spent Penny (Hassan Shaikley) thought it 
would be a great idea to post on the group with the following 
words: “who wants to start a s***** punk band?” From there, we 
all were the only ones who showed consistent interest and de -
cided to start practices at Cuong’s apartment. At that time, we 
were limited and had to use the drum set from the game Rock 
Band as our first [piece of] equipment. We only had one song 
ready after the practice, and it’s titled “Change Your Mind. ” That 
was our first song together, actually; we made it the first time we 
all met and practiced.
Guardian:  What is the meaning behind the name “Spent 
Penny” anyways?
Kim: We actually had a hard time choosing a name.
Schultz: We actually went to a band-name generator website. 
No joke. We kept seeing random names and decided to choose 
the least worst one. At first it didn’t seem to make sense, but af -
ter a while of constantly using and saying it, we grew to like it. 
I believe a lot of band names don’t make sense at first but they 
become normal after using them. I also like it because we think it 
has come to represent the effort we put into the band.
Kim: It’s actually a British idiom meaning to “take a piss, ” 
which we thought was pretty funny.
Guardian:  What was it like trying to find your sound as a 
band?
Schultz:  Something I like to say as a joke is, “ Adam writes 
the songs, but I make them sound good. ” What I mean is that 
he puts his heart into writing the songs, but then we all add our 
own parts and uniqueness into them. It’s really a band effort. We 
were trying to fit a punk sound at first, but we ended up finding 
a different path.
Luong:  I don’t think we were ever a punk band. I wanted a 
punk sound at first but I didn’t really have time to participate 
in the songwriting process so I was okay with playing the songs 
the others wrote … Regardless, I would experiment with differ -
ent bass lines during practice — none of which made it to live 
performances due to me forgetting what I came up with. I would 
just end up following what Adam would play, which is fine for 
our purposes. 
Kim: Hassan described punk as “the idea of not caring what 
other people think. ” That’s how I believe we connected to punk, 
the sound didn’t matter, but how we saw ourselves as a band 
[did].
Pelletier: When I joined, they had most of the songs written 
for the band already, so I just played what the previous drum -
mer (Austin Chinn) had played but tweaked little things here and 
there to make it my own. We’ve written two songs since then, and 
I really tried to make those drum parts sound distinct from the 
other songs.Guardian:  Describe how it was like trying to find your first 
gig, and the experiences since then?
Schultz: Our first gig was performing at Art Power around 
Fall Quarter 2015. We were really concerned with what to wear 
— Adam even bought new clothes just for it!
Kim: Yeah, I wanted us to be uniform, because I felt like our 
appearance says a lot about us as a band. 
Schultz:  Lik e m en tio n ed bef o r e , w e w er e r eall y tryin g t o fit  
a “punk band” style. We thought we needed to become more 
hardcore. But now that we have played a couple of gigs for our 
friends, we kind of just play what we want and what comes to us 
naturally. Our most recent gig, and one that’s dear to us, is Rise 
of the Rejects. It was an event we created last year when we got 
rejected from Sun God’s Battle of the Bands. It included all the 
bands who lost Battle of the Bands and still wanted to perform 
for students. I believed it really reflected our purpose for creating 
the band, which was to genuinely perform for our friends and 
the community.
Kim:  We felt great knowing that we put our music out there 
and that the audience was there to see us perform willingly; they 
even knew our songs! We saw Rise of the Rejects as less of a com -
petition and more about genuinely sharing our love for music 
and performance with the UCSD community, which we value. 
Afterward, we didn’t feel so bad about losing Battle of the Bands, 
because that’s really all we wanted in the first place: to have peo -
ple see us perform and sing along to our songs.
Guardian:  Describe how it was performing at The Guardian’s 
own POOF event.
Schultz:  Y eah … I actually didn’t go.
Kim: Yeah, I was trying to convince him to go so we could 
perform our first acoustic gig together as a whole band. 
Schutz:  Well, we performed at POOF around Winter Quarter 
of 2016 along with Good Neighbor. It was our fourth gig overall 
as a band. I was excited to actually get asked to perform for once, 
rather than volunteer or sign up for an event like we were used to.
Kim:  Actually … I reached out to Peter McInnis to perform at 
the event. He wanted our performance to be perfect, which made 
me more nervous and I actually messed up the words when we 
covered Paramore’s “Only Exception. ” We also got to play a song 
we wrote called “Dinosaur, ” which is about our anger towards 
A.S. [Council] and our rejection from Battle of the Bands.
Schultz:  Yeah we were able to perform our first angst song at 
POOF… it was a fun thing. We actually got to perform for a real 
newspaper staff!
Guardian: Do you see a future with this band?
Kim:  Unfortunately, I don’t see a future, personally. Alex got 
accepted to a Canadian graduate school and Cuong is moving to 
Northern California. I think “future” is not what matters in that 
sense. I think we had a good run. I don’t think we can salvage 
the band after graduation since it took us a good while to find 
our new drummer, Alex, after his predecessor graduated. I think 
it’s good to end our career on a high note and I definitely believe 
we had made an impact with our performances and inspired our 
friends and fans. Without Spent Penny, I don’t think I would have 
been into music production as much as I am now. I’ve definitely 
had thoughts of getting recognized, but once Connor rejected 
that idea for his career, it made me realize that I don’t think I 
can do that journey with anyone else. Every member here is ir -
replaceable.
Luong:  I’m going to be working in the Bay Area during the 
summer, so I’m not sure at the moment. It definitely helped me 
improve as a musician and be able to play individually, which I’m 
grateful for. 
Schultz:  Sublime with Rome was created to try to keep the old 
band name alive. I personally don’t want to do that just for the 
sake of continuing the name. We don’t want to have to hold on to 
the name, it’s really just to reinvigorate my passion in music. Even 
if Spent Penny is not continuing, I hope to utilize what I gained 
from it in the future. 
Kim: Personally, what I would want to do is release an actual 
album one day, since we’ve only got a few video recordings at 
the moment. I do hope we get together again some day, have a 
reunion to produce one even if we are apart. I want to be able to 
look back on this experience in 30 years and say, “Wow, I actually 
did something cool in college. ” I don’t think the end goal was ever 
Spent Penny — it was always much more than that. It was about 
the journey.
This article has been edited and condensed for clarity.Spent Penny chatted with the UCSD 
Guardian about their formation and 
journey to doing what they love: performing. BAND INTERVIEW:
Spent Penny
By Melissa Palafox // Senior Staff Writer12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  A&E
There’s this mystery involving the miners 
of Appalachia. These men were so totally 
exploited by foreign mining companies, 
for such a long time, and with such extreme 
acquiescence, that their lack of resistance has 
become a subject of analysis in its own right. 
One possible explanation proffered by John 
Gaventa back in 1980, was that the culture of 
the Scotch-Irish people was inherently stoic and 
fatalistic. Y ou can certainly recognize Gaventa’s 
accusation in their music. 
Folk music often creates an aura of sweetness 
around grim lyrics. Folk lyrics are almost always 
sad. They’re about leaving someone first thing 
in the morning, waiting for trains, “rambling. ” 
But folk also has a great capacity for endearment and innocence, for all its simple music and 
reliance upon amateaur instruments. 
Of course there’s all different kinds of 
folk music, but the strand of sad, whimsical 
and adorable folk with lots of instruments 
besides the guitar, is the one picked out by 
PigPen Theatre Company for their musical play 
“The Old Man and The Old Moon. ” This is 
appropriate. “The Old Man and the Old Moon” 
is sad and darling in a dignified, grown-up way. 
It’s about an absent woman’s wasted youth 
and her husband, the man responsible for 
refilling the moon with its luminescence every 
night, searching for her by sea. Poetically, the 
woman is played by a shadow (the cast is all 
men and not one of them is old). There’s quite a bit of literal shadow play, using sheets and light. 
It’s classily stylized in the sparse-on-purpose 
manner, all in natural wood and cotton — 
the set looks like the inside of Restoration 
Hardware. And the music is wonderful, 
equidistant between traditional show tunes 
and the hushed, purist vocals of Nick Drake 
or Vashti Bunyan-style folk. It’s designed for 
people who already like both, people who like 
only one, and also for people who like neither. 
Beneath the talented actors and adorable 
costumes are profound snips of dialogue. 
Inside the belly of a seamonster, one sailor 
says to another who is trying to convince 
him to escape, “Here I am and here I be, 
until I shall be no more. ” There’s something charming and important about this tradition 
of radical acceptance, to which folk’s sorry 
melodies, whining banjo and breakup-imagery 
lend themselves so nicely. The idea that one can 
always just acquiesce to absolutely everything 
seems too innocent, childish. But it’s really 
a viable, starlit strategy to navigate through 
darkness. It’s a hardcore idea that serves the 
classy, cute poetics of “The Old Man and the 
Old Moon” well by folding real nutrition into 
all the sweetness. 
 
—   Susie Da vidson
Senior Staff Writer“The Old Man and the Old Moon” uses folk to remind us that one can be sentimental and still have excellent taste.PLA Y  REVIEW
The  Old  Man  and  the  Old  Moon
PHOTO COURTESY OF JIM COX
With beaches, tropical scenery and 
the titular beverage, “Escape to 
Margaritaville” aches of summer. It’s a 
blissful escape from the mundanity of a fast-paced 
world as vacation grows closer each day.
This musical, set to premiere on Broadway in 
2018, has begun its run at the La Jolla Playhouse. 
Composed by acclaimed musician Jimmy Buffet, 
the play features a variety of new songs written 
specifically for the show, as well as homages to 
Buffet’s old hits, such as “Margaritaville” and 
“Cheeseburger in Paradise.”
The plot of the show itself is very much 
representative of the relaxing, beachy feel of 
Buffet’s work, telling the story of a lively, though 
admittedly sketchy, island resort. Acoustic-guitar-
wielding ladies’ man Tully (Paul Alexander Nolan) makes his living playing for the patrons 
of the resort and resides happily in a perpetual 
cycle of vacation with new guests, new girls and 
few obligations in a life afloat in the interim 
reality of island time. However, when work-a-
holic Rachel (Alison Luff) visits the island for 
a friend’s bachelorette party, worlds clash in a 
wacky and witty celebration of both escapism and 
committing to the things that matter.
The show is defined by its snappy humor, 
keeping the audience laughing throughout the 
production. There is a feeling of camaraderie and 
connection between the audience and those on 
stage. The fourth wall is broken from time to time 
(such as when one character calls on the audience 
to sing some of the dirtier lyrics to Buffet’s “Why 
Don’t W e Get Drunk”), but it is mostly leaned on more than anything else, alluded to with the 
occasional one-liner that creates a collective good 
feeling of being in on the joke without laying it on 
too thick. While the dialogue does occasionally 
feel a little stilted when trying to incorporate some 
of Buffet’s past hits, the feeling of awareness, that 
some of the bigger reaches are all part of the joke, 
makes this forgivable.
The sets are fairly simplistic but at times 
gorgeous — the lush vegetation on top of the 
volcano particularly striking. This degree of 
minimalism seems to complement the way 
blocking occasionally plays with the audience’s 
sense of perspective, such as a scuba diving scene 
which takes place mid-air and layers on top of the 
action of characters on land.
“Escape to Margaritaville” is a fun ride with a variety of hilarious characters, catchy songs and 
compelling storylines. It begs the question: Does 
vacation ever truly have to end? Is it possible to live 
a fulfilling life away from the stresses of the rest of 
the world, in that blissful state of in-between, or 
is a return to the rat race always an inevitability? 
This is only vaguely answered; ultimately, the 
ending seems to rush through its final pieces of 
development in a montage-like number that feels 
more like it should be an act of its own. “Escape 
to Margaritaville” chooses to focus on the overall 
feel-good vibe of the story in the end rather than 
delving into some of the bigger questions raised. 
But hey, that’s what vacation is for.
—   Chloe Esser
Staff Writer“Escape to Margaritaville” captures the tropical escapist feel of Jimmy Buffet’s work in a dynamic and witty retreat of its own.PLA Y  REVIEW
Escape  to  Margarit a ville
Director   Christopher Ashley
Writers   Greg Garcia, Mike O’Malley
Starring  Paul Alexander Nolan, Alison Luff, Lisa Howard
Runs   May 9 – July 9
Location   La Jolla Playhousea-
PHOTO COURTESY OF MATTHEW MURPHY
Directors   Stuart Carden, PigPen Theatre Co.
Writer   PigPen Theatre Co.
Starring  Ryan Melia, Ben Ferguson, Alex Falberg   
Runs   May 13 – June 19
Location   The Old Globea-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
ALUMNI WEEKEND
CHECK OUT THE EVENTS AT alumni.ucsd.eduTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
JUN 5 - JUN 112017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 6.05 WED6.07RETURNS JUNE 8-11
THU6.08
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE6.06
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE 
ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free 
assessment per quarter is available to 
registered UCSD students. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES 
- THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
2:30pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK 
- THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and 
learn more about what makes you most 
stressed, how it affects your well-being and 
how to keep your stress levels down! 
Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is 
first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
8pm
UCSD SALSA CLUB PRESENTS: 
SALSA DANCE NIGHT - THE LOFT, 
PC EAST
Presented by The UCSD Salsa Club, join us for 
a FREE night of Salsa dancing and music! 
FREE for UCSD students! DOORS: 8PM EVENT: 
8:30PM Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 
8588222068 10am
YOGA ZONE: VINYASA - THE ZONE
An invigorating and dynamic style of yoga in 
which breath and movement are linked in a 
flowing sequence to create heat, flexibility, 
strength, and awareness. Originating from the 
practice of Ashtanga, this style is also referred to 
as “flow yoga” or “vinyasa flow.” Led by FitLife 
instructor Ricky, this free program is on first 
come, first serve basis. All materials including 
yoga mats are provided. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
SIR ROGER PENROSE: FASHION, 
FAITH AND FANTASY - HOJEL 
AUDITORIUM, INSTITUTE OF THE 
AMERICAS
An evening with Sir Roger Penrose, the celebrated 
English mathematician and physicist as well as 
author of numerous books, including The 
Emperor's New Mind: Concerning Computers, 
Minds, and the Laws of Physics. Sir Roger 
Penrose, Professor at the University of Oxford, 
winner of the Copley Medal and the Wolf Prize in 
Physics, has made contributions encompassing 
geometry, black hole singularities, the unification 
of quantum mechanics and general relativity, the 
structure of space-time, nature of consciousness 
and the origin of our Universe. His geometric 
creations such as the Penrose Steps have inspired 
many works. In 1989 Penrose wrote The Emperors 
New Mind which challenged the premise that 
consciousness is computation and proposed new 
physics to understand it. Contact: 
pcoleman@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://imagination.ucsd.edu/_wp/news/sir-roger-p
enrose-fashion-faith-and-fantasy-and-the-big-qu
estions-in-modern-physics/10am
UCSD FARMERS' MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic 
food vendors have a little something for 
everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our 
all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town 
Square on Myers Drive. Contact: 
cwoolery@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://students.ucsd.edu/student-life/involvemen
t/organizations/farmers-market.html
11am
ART & SOUL: GRADUATION LEIS - 
THE ZONE
Come in to make graduation leis for your friends 
that are graduating! Workshops are free; all 
supplies and materials provided. Space is 
limited and is first come, first served. Contact: 
sltan@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD CHAIR MASSAGES - 
THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low-intensity massage from 
the R&R Squad! Contact: sltan@ucsed.edu
SAT6.10
10:30am
ALUMNI WEEKEND: CAMP SUN 
GOD
Bring the kids to campus for a day of fun in the 
sun, complete with good eats, musical 
entertainment, hands-on arts, crafts and 
games. It all happens at the foot of the iconic 
Sun God statue. $5 per adult | $5 per child
2pm
UC SAN DIEGO'S RAINBOW 
GRADUATION - UC SAN DIEGO 
FACULTY CLUB
Please join the UC San Diego LGBT community 
as we come together to honor the students who 
are graduating, our volunteers, our scholarship 
recipients and all who have impacted our 
community over the last year. The event serves 
as the formal induction of the graduates into the 
family of the UC San Diego LGBT Alumni. 
Although many people do get dressed up for the 
event, it tends to be a queer little get together, 
with all the trappings of our community, so be 
yourself. If you are graduating, please complete 
the form at 
https://lgbt.ucsd.edu/events/rainbow-graduatio
n.html. Contact Shaun Travers at 
stravers@ucsd.edu for more information or if 
you have questions!! Contact: 
nxn003@ucsd.edu1pm
UC SAN DIEGO/WSGR 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP SERIES: 
IP/PATENT STRATEGY - ROTH 
AUDITORIUM, SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM FOR 
REGENERATIVE MEDICINE
UC San Diego Research Affairs The Office of 
Innovation and Commercialization is partnering 
with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati (WSGR), a 
premier law firm in corporate and intellectual 
property matters, to bring an eighteen-month 
Entrepreneurship Seminar series to UC San Diego 
and the Mesa. This monthly series is focused on 
educating innovators and entrepreneurs on the 
various aspects of technology commercialization, 
company formation and funding. In addition to 
staff and students, the Office of Research Affairs 
welcomes all community members, including 
other research institutions, to participate in this 
free seminar series. 1:00pm - 5:00pm: 
Introduction/Overview in the auditorium. 5:00pm 
- 6:00pm: Reception on the terrace. Contact: 
invent@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
ALUMNI WEEKEND: 
CONVERSATION WITH DJ PATIL 
‘96
Join us as we host alumnus DJ Patil ’96, 
appointed by President Obama to serve as the 
nation’s first Chief Data Scientist for the White 
House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The conversation will be hosted by Assistant 
Professor of Cognitive Science, Brad Voytek.FRI6.09
ONLINE
PRINCIPAL MEMBER 
SATISFACTION SURVEY
To all UCSD students who are currently principal 
members for their organization or a past principal 
member as of Fall 2016, please take the Principal 
Member Satisfaction Survey. There will be weekly 
prizes that include: -Cinepolis Movie Passes 
-Fitbit -Lyft Gift Cards -Amazon Fire Tablet -Free 
Ad space in the 2016-17 issue of the Get Involved 
Magazine -VIP registration at the Vendor Fair and 
Welcome Week Please check your UCSD email for 
your unique link to access the survey. Survey is 
open through the end of Week 10! Contact: 
getinvolved@ucsd.edu
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Friday International Cafe is a weekly lunch hosted 
by the International Center featuring a different 
country every week, where students, faculty, and 
staff can learn about the culture as well as enjoy 
a representative cuisine of the featured country. 
Invite your friends for a fun lunch and a plate full 
of delicious cuisines for $5 a plate! Time: 
12:00-1:15 PM Location: Great Hall Price: $5 a 
plate The schedule for the quarter are as follows: 
June 2 - South Africa June 9 - China Any 
questions? Please email Mai Eguchi at 
maie@mail.ucsd.edu. See you there! Contact: 
maie@mail.ucsd.edu Website: 
http://icenter.ucsd.edu/about/programs-events/ic
afe.html
7pm
ALUMNI WEEKEND: ART + 
COCKTAILS
Join fellow alumni at the MCASD for a lively 
evening of art, cocktails and appetizers. Enjoy 
music by DJ Shammy Dee’06 and fun interactive 
experiences, all while taking in the amazing 
sculptures, paintings and photography on 
display.maie@mail.ucsd.edu Website: 
http://icenter.ucsd.edu/about/programs-events/ic
afe.html
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1. It may follow an attorney
6. Went down
10. Came down
14. Place to spend centimes
15. Canal to the Hudson River
16. Prom sight
17. Burdened Titan
18. Seductress
19. Land map
20. Canvas cost?
22. It’s 17 miles from the Loop
23. Legal right
24. Cajun dinner chaser, perhaps
26. Modem pair
29. Monumental
31. Physicist with a law
32. Act up
34. Like one snuggled in a blanket
38. De-ported?
39. Bio lab specimen
41. “Make __”: “Star Trek: TNG” catch -
phrase
42. Prophet in Babylon
44. Court burden
46. Bar order
47. Fort south of Louisville
48. Duffy’s foe in the 1966 MSU-Notre 
Dame game
49. They’ll chew you out
53. Moxie
55. Doesn’t age well
56. Contract addition for a bit of sand -
box equipment?
61. “The Cherry Orchard” role
62. Ivy in Philly
63. Voltaic cell terminal
64. Jamaican fruit
65. Carry on
66. Carp
67. “Agreed!”
68. Just about
69. Connect withDown
1. Words of discovery
2. Later relative
3. Actress Palmer
4. In any way
5. Harder to make out, as smoke
6. Ms. movement
7. Red explorer?
8. Top of a form, perhaps
9. Latin law
10. Pile into which letters to Aristotle 
are sorted?
11. Lavender cousin
12. Japanese porcelain
13. Carried
21. Legislature, at times
22. Roman emperor in 69 A.D.
25. Nobody
26. “Yikes!”
27. Flat formation
28. British shooter
30. Tab
33. Sprite’s appendage?
35. Acropolis locale
36. Leader until 1917
37. “Do or do not. There is no try” 
speaker
40. Hit hard
43. They’re vital for good looks
45. Distill
49. One skilled at taking in
50. Duel action
51. Sanctuaries
52. Old weapon
54. Peninsula bordering the Negev 
desert
57. Actress Jillian et al.
58. Peacenik
59. Cut, say
60. Move, to a realtor
62. Super Bowl participantBIKES
Opus Legato Bicycle - $300. A great tour -
ing bicycle. Solid build with accessories 
including helmet, bicycle pump, front and 
rear lights, panniers and lock. Listing ID: 
247469521 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beach Cruiser Bikes - $175. Roommate and I 
are moving cross country and can’t take the 
bikes. Bought them in September. In attrac -
tive condition. Kept inside when not in use. ELECTRONICS
Like New Logitech Wireless Keyboard - 
$14.99. Listing ID: 247469595 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Playstation 3 with 5 Games  - $75. Selling my 
used Playstation. With Call of Duty World at 
War, Skate 3, UFC 3, Mafia 2 and Call of 
Duty Ghost. Comes with three controllers. 
Listing ID: 247469593 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationFURNITURE
Hydraulic Bar Stool Set - $80. Matching pair 
of air actuated bar stools in exceptional 
condition. Listing ID: 247469632 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Black Cabinet - $295. Black cabinet with 
glass doors. Perfect for television. Like new. 
Listing ID: 247469629 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
W\RXUYLV
*(7$)5((
4827(72'$<LRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianLevel: 1234SUDOKU
UCSD GRADUATIONS • JUNE 17-18
CONGRATULATIONS
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit Availablewhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972For those of you who missed 
out on Game One of the Finals 
for the National Basketball 
Association, here’s a recap: The 
Golden State Warriors picked 
apart the Cleveland Cavaliers 
in a one-sided 113–91 victory. 
I apparently had no idea what I 
was talking about when I made 
my prediction last week when I 
said Warriors in seven. Cleveland 
will probably take one game max 
off the Warriors, barring divine 
intervention. The game was just 
that lopsided. 
There are a number of points that I took from the game.
1. Kevin Durant is a scorer; 
he is a very good scorer. 
In fact, no one on the 
Cavaliers can stop him. 
2. Either LeBron James is 
lazy with one-on-one 
defense, aging or just 
completely unable to 
guard Durant anymore 
for anything more than a 
few possessions. 
3. The Cavaliers role players 
J.R. Smith, Tristan 
Thompson, Kyle Korver 
and Deron Williams didn’t 
show up to the game. 
4. Klay Thompson might be in a shooting slump, but 
his defense is definitely 
there.
5. Neither Kevin Love 
nor Tristan Thompson 
can do much against 
Draymond Green. Green 
is an absolute defensive 
monster.
The game started rather 
sloppily. The nerves of being in 
the Finals and the rust of not 
playing for a week clearly affected 
the players: Both teams missed 
opened layups and seemed out 
of sorts. However, they were able 
to shake off whatever it was and 
cleaned up their game. The first quarter ended 35–30 Warriors, 
and it seemed the game was 
going to be competitive. Golden 
State pulled ahead in the second 
quarter to finish 60–52 at the end 
of the half. 
But then, the third quarter 
happened. The Warriors 
outscored the Cavaliers 33–20. 
Stephen Curry scored 12 of the 
Warriors’ 33 points. The game 
was just about out of reach by 
the end of the third quarter. With 
the way Cleveland was shooting, 
a 93–72 Warriors lead was 
insurmountable. Golden State 
never took its foot off the gas 
pedal, keeping most of its starters in until the end of the game. They 
were not going to give Cleveland 
even an inch of space until the 
final buzzer sounded. 
The game was an eye-
opener for those who thought 
the Cavaliers were team on par 
with the Warriors. No one from 
Cleveland could stop Durant, and 
if this continues, we’ll probably 
see a 4–1 series or a complete 
sweep. Hopefully, more Cavaliers 
show up and help out the team, 
because James, Kyrie Irving and 
Love are going to need it.
Richard  Lu  ril014@ucsd,eduBY  R i c h a r d  L u
STAFF WRITER
Kneejerk Reactions to Game 1: The Cavs Are DoomedSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 5, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After blowing its way 
through the NCAA West 
Regionals, the UC San 
Diego baseball team ran into a bit 
of a hurdle when it fell to No. 16 St. 
Thomas Aquinas on Sunday, May 
28. However, since then the Triton 
offense had found new life, scoring 
double digits in three out of the last 
four games to stave off elimination, 
before falling in the title match 
against West Chester.
Vs. Quincy
The Triton’s match against No. 
14 Quincy was not going well. By 
the middle of the fourth inning, 
UCSD had fallen into a 7–1 hole, 
and it looked like it was time for 
the Tritons to start packing. But 
with this adversity, came newfound 
life: Just like a 28–3 deficit in the 
Super Bowl would not stop the 
New England Patriots, the added 
stakes only fueled the Triton 
flame. In the bottom of the fourth 
inning with two outs already on 
the board, a senior outfielder Jack 
Larsen walk loaded the bases to 
start some offensive magic. Then, 
redshirt senior outfielder Brandon 
Shirley managed a double to send 
two runners home, and then 
sophomore first-baseman Tyler 
Durna singled to centerfield to 
allow Shirley and Larsen to make 
it back home to suddenly make it a 7–6 game. To continue the rally, 
senior infielder JD Hearn hit a 
single to send Durna home and 
make it a tie ball game. Who even 
starts packing early, anyway?
Near the end of Quincy’s 
offensive outburst in the third 
inning, sophomore left-handed 
pitcher Preston Mott was put in 
to stop the bleeding — and he 
did just that. Only allowing two 
runs for the entirety of his tenure, 
Mott made the Tritons’ comeback 
worthwhile. 
After the Tritons tied it all up 
it was like a new game, Quincy 
responded to the comeback with 
a run in the top of the fifth inning, 
but after that, UCSD allowed no 
more. Two Triton runs in the sixth 
inning and another in the eighth 
put them out for good, sending 
the Tritons to a 10–8 victory and a 
chance to play another day. 
Vs. Lindenwood  
Luckily for the Tritons, their 
following games were far less 
interesting — UCSD trounced No. 
20 Lindenwood, No. 16 St. Thomas 
Aquinas and then St. Thomas 
Aquinas again for good measure. 
In its match against 
Lindenwood, UCSD once again 
proved that its offensive outburst 
was no fluke, but simply the way 
of things. The Tritons scored three runs in the first inning, two in 
the second, and then another five 
in the sixth inning to stomp out 
any chances Lindenwood had in 
the game. Lindenwood scored two 
runs in the bottom of the ninth to 
make it an 11–6 game, but they 
could do no more.
Vs. St. Thomas Aquinas
Revenge games are always fun. 
Everyone always wants another 
shot at someone that’s bested them, 
and the Tritons got just that — and 
then another one — against St. 
Thomas Aquinas.
The first rematch against the 
Spartans quietly and quickly 
turned into a blowout. Never 
scoring more than two runs at a 
time in a single inning, the Triton 
offense consistently got the better 
of the Spartan pitching as the 
team went up by two, then four, 
then six, then eight … and then 
when it was all said and done the 
Tritons had conquered their foe 
10–0. Like someone pulling an all-
nighter to study for a pass/no pass 
class, they probably didn’t need to 
work so hard — but that sustained 
excellence on offense and defense 
makes them the great team that 
they are.
With a trip to the finals on the 
line, the Tritons’ second rematch 
against the Spartans was a touch more competitive. At the top of the 
second inning, the Tritons earned 
three hits and turned them into 
three scores to take a 3–0 lead 
against the Spartans. However, the 
Tritons’ offensive consistency from 
the previous game dwindled, as 
they would not score again until 
the sixth inning, allowing the 
Spartans to make it a close 3–2 
game. But once that sixth inning 
rolled around, UCSD was right 
back at it with another three runs 
to make it a more daunting 6–2 
lead.
The teams would go 1–1 for 
the rest of the game, resulting in a 
definitive 7–3 Triton victory, and a 
chance to face No. 6 West Chester 
for the national title.
Vs. West Chester
Alas, all good things must come 
to an end. After going undefeated 
in four straight elimination games, 
the Tritons couldn’t hold on for 
one last game, as the Golden Rams 
pitching proved to be too much in 
the national title game. 
The Golden Rams immediately 
got one on the board with a home 
run in their first at-bat. Redshirt 
senior pitcher Adrian Orozco 
struck two out and forced another 
out to prevent anymore damage. In 
the bottom of the second inning, 
Hearn landed a triple and was then quickly sent home thanks to a 
single to right field from freshman 
outfielder Chad Crosbie to tie the 
game up at 1–1.
But the Tritons couldn’t stop 
the Golden Rams from making 
big plays — with two outs at the 
top of the third inning, the Golden 
Rams hit yet another home run to 
put the West Chester up by one yet 
again. After a few quiet innings 
score wise, the Tritons were finally 
able to get something going again 
after a Brigman hit allowed Durna 
to score and tie up the game at 2–2.
Uncharacteristically for the 
Tritons, that’s where their scoring 
would end. The Golden Rams 
scored a run in the seventh inning, 
and another two in the eighth to 
push the Triton deficit to three 
runs. For a team that had proven 
it was capable of scoring in large 
chunks, two innings to make up 
three points or more seemed like a 
gift to the Tritons, but the Golden 
Rams did not allow a single hit 
for the remainder of the game. 
The Tritons lost 5–2, ceding the 
national title to the Golden Rams.
The Tritons finish their 
incredible season with an overall 
44–19 record.
The UC San Diego men’s rowing team 
competed in the Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association National Championships from Friday, 
June 2 to Sunday, June 4.
The Tritons had three boats competing: V arsity 
Eight, Second V arsity Eight and Third V arsity 
Eight. 
On Friday, UCSD finished sixth in the V arsity 
Eight, Heat One race with a time of 6:07.116, 
behind Columbia University (5:59.255). In the 
V arsity Eight Repechage Four race, the Tritons 
came in at fourth with a 6:18.103 time, with 
Oregon State coming ahead in third (6:02.277). 
The Tritons’ Second V arsity Eight finished 
their heat in sixth place (6:18.563). For the Second 
Varsity Eight Repechage Four race, UCSD’s boat  came in fourth (6:35.805). 
The Third V arsity Eight finished its heat in 
fifth with a time of 6:28.045. The boat came in at 
sixth place (6:32.152) in the Third V arsity Eight 
Repechage One race. 
On Saturday, The Tritons’ V arsity Eight boat 
rowed a 6:07.870 to come in at sixth place in the 
V arsity Eight Semifinal Four behind Santa Clara 
University (5:58.850). The Second Varsity Eight 
boat finished their Semifinal Four in sixth with 
a time of 6:10.174. The Third Varsity Eight boat 
for the Tritons finished in fourth behind Drexel 
University (6:12.298) with a time of 6:13.037 to 
finish the Third Varsity Eight Semifinal Four.  
After Day 3, V8 finished 24th overall, 2V8 finished 
23rd overall, and 3V8 finished 20th overall. 
Tritons Have Rough Finish to Season
UC San Diego lands at the bottom of the standings at the IRA National Championships.BY  R i c h a r d  L u
Staff writer
M.    Rowing
PHOTO COURTESY OF HENRY CHENalex wu   awu006@ucsd,edu
Baseball
Close, But 
No Cigar
After riding a hot 
offense to the national 
title game, UC San 
Diego fell 5-2 to No. 6 
West Chester.
by Alex Wu // Sports EditorPHOTO BY HENRY CHEN
Richard  Lu  ril014@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS