VOLUME 50, ISSUE 22   TUESDA Y , JANUAR Y 17, 2017  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC Davis College Republicans’ 
event featuring Milo Yiannopoulos, 
a conservative fixture and Breitbart 
editor who spoke at UC San Diego 
last June, was cancelled by organizers 
30 minutes prior to the scheduled 
time on Friday evening due to student 
protesters who blocked access points 
to the venue, according to a release by 
UC Davis.
Yiannopoulos claimed in a 
Facebook post that the event was 
cancelled because of “violence from 
left-wing protesters, ” citing hammers 
and smashed windows present at 
the protests, but a UC Davis police 
spokesperson said to CBS Sacramento 
that there were no hammers or 
broken windows. According to 
NBC Sacramento, one person was “reportedly arrested inside of a 
building during a security sweep for 
resisting arrest. ”
Tonight’s protest followed a letter 
issued earlier in January and signed 
by more than 900 graduate students, 
through which students demanded that 
the administration cancel the College 
Republicans’ hosting of Yiannopoulos, 
deeming it “particularly harmful given 
the current sociopolitical climate in the 
United States.”
Political Director of Davis College 
Republicans Deborah Porter stated 
in an email to The Aggie that while 
the organization does not necessarily 
endorse Yiannopoulos, they believe his 
presence on campus is valuable.
“We do believe that college is a 
period in life where students must be 
aware of others’ beliefs and [be] able to 
support their own values, ” Porter said.
Yiannopoulos has gained a considerable fanbase for his support 
of Donald Trump and is a fixture of 
the “alt-right” movement, comparing 
Black Lives Matter to the KKK while 
criticizing feminism and Islam, among 
other movements and religions. Earlier 
last year, he was banned from Twitter 
after encouraging and contributing to 
a slew of racist Tweets targeting Leslie 
Jones, comedian and star of the recent 
“Ghostbusters” revival.
The hashtag #UCDoY ourJob 
started last week as students expressed 
their concerns for what the speaker’s 
presence on campus would signal. 
User @aqueeerius posted after the 
announcement of the event and before 
any administrative responses:
“@ralphhexter freedom of speech 
doesn’t mean freedom of platform. 
Transphobia & white supremacy A.S. President 
Daniel Juarez 
Announces 
Plans for 2017A.S. COUNCIL
A.S. Council is working on 
several initiatives including 
temporary housing, 
transportation.
Following the release of the 
Associated Students Office of the 
President’s quarterly report on Dec. 
6, the UCSD Guardian and A.S. 
Council President Daniel Juarez met 
with the UCSD Guardian to discuss 
new services implemented by A.S. 
Council during fall quarter as well as 
plans the council is working on for the 
remainder of the academic year. 
By speaking to the student press 
and releasing quarterly reports, Juarez 
said she hopes the student body will 
become more aware of the work A.S. 
Council is doing, and that students will 
be more active in the decision-making 
process when it comes time to vote on 
upcoming referendums. During our 
conversation, Juarez highlighted the 
following: 
Public Transportation
tIn 2019, the Transportation 
Fee Referendum, which 
provides every student with 
a Triton U-Pass that allows 
them to use any of the MTS 
bus lines, will be up for 
reconsideration. A.S. Council 
will issue a transportation 
survey mid-February to 
decide whether to keep, 
abandon or modify the 
transportation fee to better 
serve students’ needs. 
tAs an auxiliary service, 
public transportation cannot 
be funded by state funds or 
university funds, making the 
service reliant on the passage 
of a fee referendum. 
tJuarez said A.S. Council 
is considering increasing 
the fee to include public 
transportation throughout 
the summer depending 
on responses to the 
transportation survey. 
Triton Food Pantr y
tThe Triton Food Pantry, 
located in the Original Student 
Center, is being expanded into 
the neighboring space, where 
A.S. Soft Reserves and Lecture 
Notes used to be.
tJuarez expressed excitement 
that the Triton Food Pantry 
will have an “actual space to 
do programming and have a 
central base where students 
can know where their basic 
needs can be met. ”
tConstruction began over 
winter break but is slightly 
behind schedule. Furnishings, 
an industrial sink for washing 
produce and a countertop, 
in place of the sink at the 
original location, will be 
added. In addition, the 
windows previously used for 
purchasing workbooks will be 
removed and replaced by a OceanView Restaurant Hosts Grand Opening
OceanView restaurant in Thurgood Marshall 
College hosted its grand opening Wednesday 
afternoon, featuring free samples of food, 
live music and free shirts.
The restaurant is located next to the Marshall 
resident halls and will serve as the dining hall for 
Marshall College, which has been without one since 
Oceanview Terrace closed before the 2015-2016 
academic year for renovations. 
Christine Clark, UCSD Communications 
Manager, said that HDH completely renovated the 
kitchen and added other new features that better 
utilize space. The restaurant also updated its menu, 
which was previously centered on Mexican food.
“I think it’s off to a great start, and from what 
I have heard and seen, the sales have been really 
impressive, ” Clark told the UCSD Guardian.
The features that set OceanView apart from the 
other dining options on campus are its joint halal 
and kosher station, called Spice, and the 24/7 coffee 
and gelato bar, called Counter Culture, which is the 
first 24-hour dining option offered on campus. The restaurant also includes 3rd Kitchen, which offers 
build-your-own pizza, pizza by the slice, chicken 
wings and cuscinos, and a salad stand.
According to a statement from Communications 
and Public Affairs, “the kitchen is the product of 
a collaborative effort between the Muslim Student 
Association, the Union of Jewish Students and 
Housing Dining Hospitality as well as Thurgood 
Marshall College. ”
Rabbi Yehuda Hadjadj from Chabad of UCSD, a 
Jewish organization on campus, told the Guardian 
the Jewish community on campus had been pushing 
for an all-kosher dining option on campus for several 
years. After gathering students and communicating                                                                                                                                   
the demand and benefits several times by talking to 
various people within UCSD, he said the school was 
responsive. 
“I think the turning point was that we were able 
to communicate with [UCSD]  to let them know that 
this was going to build community because food 
unites people, and if you have [food], people can 
connect, ” Hadjadj said. “Today’s all about connection, B y  Na t asha Vyhovsky    Contributing WriterCAMPUS
Hosted by the College Republicans, the event was called off following prostests by students.See OCEANVIEW , page 3
UC SYSTEM
BY   Q u i n n  P i e p e r
STAFF writer
See DAVIS  , page 3
BY  M a t t h e w  Z a m u d i o 
News Editor
Milo Yiannapoulos Event Cancelled at UC Davis 
See PRESIDENT , page 3BEST 
OF 2016
“TAXES ARE DUE IN SPRING, 
BUT IT’S AWARDS SEASON 
RIGHT NOW.THE FERAL ARTS 
& ENTERTAINMENT STAFF 
WAS RECENTLY LET LOOSE 
FROM THEIR CAGES IN ORDER 
TO LIST THEIR FAVORITE 
SHOWS, FILMS, ALBUMS AND 
SONGS OF 2016.”
BETS Y  DEVOS
EDUCA TING  AMERICA'S  YOUTH?
OPINION,  P AGE 4
VERBATIM
“TEAMSTERS LOCAL 2010 
MEMBERS OF THE CX-UNIT 
ARE DETERMINED TO OBTAIN 
WHAT THEY HAVE PROPOSED 
AND WILL NOT ACCEPT 
AN UNFAIR AND LOWER 
OFFER. THEY DESERVE THIS 
MUCH — AS THEIR SLOGAN 
SAYS,THEY WANT TO BE PAID 
ENOUGH TO LIVE.. ”
- Alba Diez-Mena
UC Workers Deserve Livable 
Wage
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCITECH  ......................... 2
QUICK TAKES....................4
LIFESTYLE  .................... 10
CROSSWORD  ................ 14
MEN’S TENNIS  .............. 16A&E,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY SAM WU/UCSD GUARDIAN
UCSD HAS A STRONG 
REPUTATION AS A RESEARCH 
UNIVERSITY, BUT SOME 
STUDENTS STILL FIND THEIR 
NICHE IN MUSIC AND ART. WE 
SPOKE TO A FEW OF THEM TO 
SEE HOW THEY FIND SPACES 
TO EXPRESS THEIR CREATIVE 
SIDES AND HOW THEY FEEL  
THEIR COMMUNITY IS SEEN 
BY THE UCSD STUDENT BODY 
AS A WHOLE.
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
UCSD   Remains  Fir st  in    CCAA
sports,  P age  16ARTISTIC     EXPRESSIONPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERGAE CAT By Christina Carlson
YOUR NEWS NOWucsdguardian.orgA research article, published on 
Jan. 4, suggests that much of the 
climate change models predicting 
our future weather patterns may 
show a systematic bias for a stable 
Atlantic Meridional Overturning 
Circulation. 
The AMOC is an important 
ocean current that generally pushes 
warm water northwards while cold 
water flows south. It has largely 
been assumed to be stable in most 
prediction models of climate change, 
but new evidence suggests that there 
may be a large-scale collapse of this 
pattern in the near future. 
The model used in the paper 
shows that if the atmospheric 
carbon dioxide concentration were to double from the 1990 level of 335 
parts per million, the circulation 
would collapse in 300 years. It 
would cause the northern Atlantic 
Ocean to begin cooling, the spread 
of Arctic sea ice to hasten, and 
the temperature to drop in the 
Northwestern Atlantic Ocean and 
Europe. 
Several research centers and 
universities worked together on the 
analysis, including Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography, Yale University 
and the University of Wisconsin–
Madison. First author and a former 
Scripps postdoctoral researcher 
now at Yale University, Wei Liu, 
explained how the discrepancy 
between reality and many current 
climate change models indicate a 
bias in AMOC stability.
“First we want to know if there is 
a criteria, like a dynamic metric, to monitor AMOC stability, ” Liu told 
the UCSD Guardian. “I have found 
that if you put the observation 
data into the indicator, it suggests 
that the AMOC is currently in an 
unstable regime, yet if you look at 
climate change models they say it is 
in a mostly stable regime. ”
Scripps climate modeler and 
co-author Shang-Ping Xie thinks 
the Atlantic circulation’s effect on 
climate change has been less studied 
compared to more obvious changes 
such as ocean surface temperature 
because the AMOC is difficult to 
observe and understand. However, 
its importance is clear because of 
how it will affect North America’s 
and Western Europe’s weather 
patterns and climate. 
Xie gave insight into how other 
major ocean circulation patterns 
besides the AMOC have had an effect on the local climate here in 
San Diego.
“In San Diego, for example, 
ocean upwelling, in which winds 
from the north blowing across the 
ocean surface push water away, 
while cold water then rises up from 
beneath the surface, happen on La 
Jolla beach, where the water is quite 
cold even though we are in Southern 
California. ”
Both Xie and Liu expressed a 
strong desire to continue with this 
line of research, working toward 
creating more models, applying 
realistic global warming scenarios 
and producing more papers to 
highlight the importance of climate 
change research.New Paper Suggests Climate Change Models Have a Prediction Bias
Researchers believe that the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation may be in danger of a large-scale collapse in the near future.SCITECH
BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g
senior staff writer
Rebecca Chong  rcchong@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. The Server.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Rosina Garcia 
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
 Matthew Zamudio
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velasquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn  Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Miguel Sheker
Christina Carlson
Lisa ChikEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Alicia Ho, Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistants
Alicia Lepler, Aarthi Venkatshould not be allowed on campus 
#UCDoY ourJob. ”
In an email sent this morning to 
faculty and staff, Interim Chancellor 
Ralph L. Hexter — who replaced 
former chancellor Linda Katehi, first 
as acting chancellor and currently 
as interim chancellor — affirmed 
the welcoming of these guests while 
denouncing speech “intended to 
promote hate or to denigrate or to 
offend others. ”
“ Any public university must do 
everything it can to make sure that 
all members of its community are 
free to express their views — both 
because free expression is a right 
guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution and enshrined in 
University of California policy and 
because it is an essential ingredient 
in higher-education teaching and 
research, ” Hexter said.
The event is part of a larger tour 
by Yiannopoulos, who has upcoming 
shows scheduled for California 
Polytechnic State University, UC 
Berkeley and UCLA, among several 
other campuses across the country.
Last June, as an earlier 
installment of his current tour 
across American college campuses, 
Yiannopoulos was sponsored and 
hosted at UCSD by The Koala and 
College Republicans at a sold-out 
event held at Price Center Theater. 
As noted by the Union Tribune, 
his stop at UCSD in June was less protested than appearances at other 
schools like Rutgers University, 
where students smeared fake blood 
on their faces.
Martin Shkreli, a pharmaceutical 
executive who gained recognition 
after raising the price of Daraprim, 
an HIV medication, from $13.50 to 
$750 per unit, was set to speak at the 
event with Yiannopoulos but only 
briefly took photos with fans before 
being escorted away.
At 9 p.m., Hexter expressed his 
disappointment in the events leading 
up to the cancellation on Twitter.
“Deeply disappointed in events 
tonight. A U is at its best when it listens 
to & critically engages opposing views, ” 
Hexter tweeted.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Become a Leader!  Are you looking for a challenging and exciting leadership opportunity? The six Colleges are seeking applications for             
Orientation Leader positions. Gain valuable leadership and work experience while making new friends and having fun. See the i nformation 
below for specific deadlines and information sessions.   
All applications available at porttriton.ucsd.edu.  
 Revelle  
Returning Orientation Leaders: Apply by  
Friday, January 13  
New Orientation Leaders: Apply by  
Friday, January 27  
revelle.ucsd.edu   Warren  
Orientation Leaders: Apply by February 3 by 
12:00pm  
Info Sessions: January 19 & 30 from 5:00pm -
6:00pm in the Student Activities Center  
warren.ucsd.edu  
 Muir 
Freshman Orientation Leaders: Apply by 
January 27 by 4:30pm  
Transfer Orientation Leaders: Apply by 
February 27 by 4:30pm  
muir.ucsd.edu   Roosevelt  
Info Sessions: January 18, 5:00pm & 9:00pm in     
Middle Earth  
Freshman Orientation Leaders: Apply by January 
31 by 4:00pm  
Transfer OL Applications: Apply by February 1 by 
3:30pm  
roosevelt.ucsd.edu  
 Marshall  
Info Sessions:  
January 17 at 1:00pm in TMC 127  
January 19 at 3:30pn in Fireside Lounge  
Orientation Leaders: Apply by January 20  
marshall.ucsd.edu   Sixth  
Senior Orientation Leaders:  Apply by January 27 
by 4:00pm  
Freshman Orientation Leaders: Apply by           
February 1 at 4:00pm  
sixth.ucsd.edu  
right? So this was a way to connect 
different people of different kinds of 
backgrounds together. ”
Hadjadj said Spice ran out of 
food every day of the soft opening, 
serving 675 meals Tuesday night 
alone.
Nadah Feteih, a Warren College 
junior and the Vice President of the 
Muslim Student Association said 
the dining halls were very limited 
in halal options, with occasional 
selections at Lemongrass and 
Bombay Coast, although she said 
Oceanview did have some halal and 
kosher dining options before its 
renovations.
“I think it’s a step in a good 
direction in terms of having more 
options and accommodating other 
groups on campus, like the Muslim 
and the Jewish students who, as 
part of our religions, do follow a 
specific diet, ” Feteih said. “I think 
it will definitely be really helpful, 
and it’s a really kind gesture for 
the University to include something 
like this. ”
Rabbi Y udell Reiz, a quality-
assurance kosher supervisor for 
Spice, said the process of opening 
the station has been smooth so far, 
although with a lot of extra work to 
make sure everything is kosher.
“We have been totally 
overwhelmed beyond imagination 
so far, ” Reiz said.
Derek Ung, a Revelle senior who 
lives in the Village, said for students 
who do not live in Marshall, it is 
worth the walk to try OceanView at 
least once.“I’m impressed with the dessert, 
the cheesecake specifically, and I 
thought the pizza was pretty good, ” 
Ung said. “Overall, I’m glad that they 
renovated [Oceanview Terrace]. ”
Yusuf Pashaliyev, a first year 
Marshall student who used to 
frequent Pines and Lemongrass in 
Price Center, had been to Oceanview 
twice before the opening today.
“I waited nearly an hour for the 
build-your-own [pizza], ” Pashaliyev 
told the UCSD Guardian. “It was 
good, but it wasn’t worth the wait. ”
In comparison to other dining 
halls and restaurants on campus, he 
said Oceanview was better in terms 
of quality of food.
Kelvin Do, a junior transfer 
student from the Village, said he 
specifically liked the wings and the 
pizza he tried at the grand opening 
and would definitely go back on a 
regular basis to spend his dining 
dollars.
“Kind of similar to the other 
restaurants on campus, the food is 
a little pricey, ” Do said, “but other 
than that, I think it’s fairly high 
quality. ”
While the coffee and gelato bar 
will be open 24/7, Spice will be 
open Monday through Thursday 
from 10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. 
to 8 p.m., and on Fridays from 10:30 
a.m to 4 p.m. The 3rd Kitchen will 
be open 7 days a week from 10:30 
a.m. to 1:00 a.m.two-door entrance. 
Basic Needs Coordinator
tThe office of the Basic 
Needs Coordinator, a 
position created under 
Juarez’s leadership, will be 
located in the Triton Food 
Pantry and will focus on 
coordinating basic needs 
programs, including food 
and housing. The Basic 
Needs Coordinator will also 
be available for counseling 
and one-on-one meetings 
with     undergraduate 
students. 
tWhile the coordinator’s 
office will be located in the 
pantry, they will not oversee 
pantry operations. 
tThe Basic Needs 
Coordinator will work 
hand-in-hand with the 
Basic Needs Committee. 
“The Basic Needs 
Coordinator will focus on the overall mission of the 
Basic Needs Committee,” 
Juarez said. “[That includes] 
the programming, case-
management portion, 
marketing and resources, 
making it known that there’s 
a protocol for how to deal 
with basic needs insecurity. ”
Temp or ar y Housing
tJuarez and A.S. Council hope 
to formalize a protocol for 
students in need of immediate 
housing where HDH would 
fill empty beds in campus 
dorms, giving students the 
chance to solve their housing 
crises and avoid homelessness. 
tJuarez said HDH has been 
responsive to students in 
need but that A.S. Council 
would like to see a formal 
program implemented by 
the beginning of the next 
academic year.
t“In the past, when there 
have been students with 
immediate need for housing, we’ve been able to 
collaborate with HDH in 
order to find any available 
options on campus, ” Juarez 
said. “That’s something that 
we’re trying to formalize. ” 
tJuarez said a major 
roadblock is finding money 
that can be allocated toward 
such a program. 
tThe program would be 
broken down by college, 
where students would go 
to their dean in the event 
of a housing crisis and be 
referred for temporary 
housing. 
tWhile filling empty beds is 
the most feasible method 
to achieving a temporary 
housing program, Juarez 
said she’ d like to see the 
university invest in a 
construction project that 
serves temporary housing 
needs exclusively.▶ OCEANVIEW,  from page 1 ▶ DAVIS,  from page 1 The Dining Hall Includes a Coffee and 
Gelato Station That Are Open 24/7Chancellor Hexter Expressed Disappointment At University’s Reaction
Juarez: Funding Is an Obstacle to Formalizing Temporary Housing
▶ PRESIDENT,  from page 1
Ma tthew Zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.eduNa t asha  Vyhov sky  NVYHOVSK@UCSD.EDUQuinn pieper  qpieper@UCSD.EDU4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESLAST WEEK, MERYL STREEP STOOD AGAINST DONALD TRUMP AND WAS INSULTED BY THE PRESIDENT-ELECT HOURS 
LATER VIA TWITTER. NEWS PUBLICATIONS WHO COVERED THE SPAT RAISED A QUESTION: IS HIS INVECTIVE NEWS?
Coverage of  Trump’s Deragatory Tweets 
as News Normalizes Unprofessionalism Journalists Must Document Trump’s 
Rhetoric In Its Entirety to Reflect RealityEthical or Not, Publications Will 
Ultimately Serve Readers As Businesses
In late 2015, before Donald T rump was taken 
seriously as either a legitimate presidential candidate 
or a potential threat, the Huffington Post announced 
a unique policy in its coverage of the increasingly 
visible president-elect in its publication: he would be 
categorized as Entertainment.
Now, more than a year later, he prepares to take 
the most powerful office in this country, and the 
sentiment opposite to the Huffington Post’ s decision 
has helped him get there. 
Due to sensationalist free press and the coverage 
of his comically absurd moments, Trump received 
over $5 billion of coverage, more than twice as much 
free media than Clinton according to Mediaquant, a 
site tracking the per-dollar value of media coverage 
in presidential campaigning.
These news stories distract people from more 
detrimental decisions being made, such as the 
House’ s decision to veto rules enacted by any federal 
agency or its ban on tracking budget expenses 
relating to the Affordable Care Act’ s repeal. Through 
scandal after scandal on the topic of his money and 
his rhetoric, the most helpful feature of his narrative 
became his vilification, and it was ultimately 
enhanced by those looking to quell him.
As T rump continues to use his lines of contact 
with the American people to swing at public 
figures, name-call actresses, solicit apologies 
from people expressing fear of persecution and 
aggressively defend himself against criticism, it’ s 
up to newswriters to decide whether to legitimize 
immaturity and willful fear-incitement, to strike 
a balance between informing the people of public 
affairs and becoming a pawn.
There is absolutely a need to keep people 
informed on presidential items.The shit-talking of a 
full-bodied child is just not one of those.
    — QUINN PIEPER
Opinion EditorWhile many have argued that President-elect 
Donald Trump’ s tweets promote falsehoods and 
can cause national upset by inciting fear and 
targeting minorities, it is quite literally the job of 
news providers to continuously take seriously his 
short and to-the-point social media claims. As 
businesses that rely on revenue-generating content, 
publications simply must report on the information 
with which the president-elect provides us, in order 
to offer the content that readers want. Although 
it remains important for these news providers to 
carefully sift through the information and to place 
Trump’ s words within proper context, they cannot 
simply ignore the tweets as a form of resisting 
the president-elect’ s policies and thoughts for the 
nation, especially when these types of stories earn 
them their salaries. 
While sources should attempt to balance 
their objective reports with their own opinions, 
it is also the audience’s duty to find and support 
accountable, trustworthy journalism other than 
major for-profit outlets, such as V oice of San Diego. 
Readers who care about reliable journalism have 
been supporting objective news as an entire new 
segment of fake news has emerged. The New Y ork 
Times itself experienced an increase of 41,000 paid 
subscribers — the largest increase for this paper 
since 2011. Y et the average reader often seeks and 
finds exactly what they are looking for — whether 
it’ s news favoring or resisting Trump’ s ideas — in 
order to back their already-held beliefs. Whether 
news outlets should act as businesses or not, 
they do, and it is the duty of readers, rather than 
reporters — who have to report Trump’ s tweets just 
to uphold their jobs — to take note of the severity 
of this sociopolitical climate in order for it to be 
documented.
    — EMILY COLLINS
Staff WriterWhen Meryl Streep called the president-
elect a “bully, ” Donald Trump’s immediate 
response to call her “overrated” was covered 
again and again by major news outlets. The 
extensive coverage of the tweet, derided 
by some as unnecessary or not worthy of 
professional journalists’ time, is exactly what 
we need today. The president-elect has chosen 
Twitter as his primary means of communicating 
with the world  — specifically the American 
people — so anything less than full coverage of 
his online outbursts is a disservice to both the 
executive office and to the public. 
Trump’s tweets have not changed over the 
years; they either belittle opponents or boast 
of his accomplishments. What has changed 
since the night of Nov. 8 is that these 140 
character diatribes now carry the full force of 
the presidency. The spats that barely served as 
back-page tabloid fodder now have the right 
and the tendency to occupy the front page of 
respected news organizations because they 
come from the highest, most powerful office in 
our country. 
Even if Trump may not take his own words 
seriously, it is the responsibility of journalists 
to treat every statement with the gravity 
that the office of president deserves, because 
deciding that Trump’s outbursts are not worthy 
of coverage only establishes these tantrums 
as normal. To let anything slide or stand 
unquestioned would be to relinquish reporters 
of the duty they have as journalists to make the 
affairs of government officials transparent and 
publicized, and to protect the integrity of the 
office even, and especially, when its occupant 
does not. 
    — KENNETH SCHRUPP
Contributing WriterLast Tuesday, Teamsters Local 
2010 members of the CX-Unit 
(clerical, administrative and related 
classifications) organized a strike to 
protest the numerous unfair labor 
practices and violations of state law 
committed by University of California.
The executive director of Strategic 
Communications of University of 
California, Dianne Klein, claims that 
the University of California is offering 
an average 18-percent raise over six 
years, but the T eamsters Local 2010 
tells a different story. “The University 
insisted for months on an insulting 
offer of an annual one percent across-
the-board wage increase, plus a step for 
some workers, for five years. After we 
threatened our strike, they improved 
the offer to 12-18 percent over five 
years, giving in to our demands for 
an additional raise this year and 
more guaranteed increases, ” said the 
T eamsters Local 2010 in its campaign 
information.
But employees are not satisfied with 
this offer. They demand a higher raise 
on their salaries. This is fair because, 
according to Occidental College’s 
Urban and Environmental Policy 
Institute survey, 70 percent of members 
of T eamsters Local 2010 suffer from 
hunger or food insecurity. In addition 
to that, their real wages have decreased 
by 24 percent over the last 18 years, 
clearly proving that the University’s 
offer is insufficient. 
The strike was supported by the 10 
UC campuses, five UC medical centers 
and the Lawrence Berkeley National 
Lab. All of them united to protest and 
to emphasize their support of skilled 
trade workers at UCLA, who started a 
five-day strike on Jan. 6. These workers 
have been without a contract for 
four years at UCLA, and they protest 
because of the University’s unfair                           
labor practices.
The University of California 
declared that the strike was “potentially 
unlawful, ” but Teamster Local 2010 
affirmed that the negotiations with 
the University had expired on Friday, 
Dec. 9, 2016. Therefore, the strike was 
completely legal. 
The demands of the Teamsters are 
fair and addressing them is necessary. 
UCSD has always seemed like a 
great family to me, and we should be 
together to support every member of 
our community. Every student pays a 
high fee to study here, so workers in 
our institution should be well-paid and 
should have a good quality of life.
A UCSD worker, who preferred 
not to be identified, explained to me 
that some people have to work part-
time jobs in addition to their full-time 
jobs at the University of California in 
order to have enough money during 
the month to pay for rent and food. 
This worker did not want her name to 
be mentioned because of the negative 
connotation that she could have within 
her department.
California labor law protects the 
right of public workers to strike, and it 
is illegal to be harassed or threatened 
because of one’s participation in a 
strike. W orkers cannot be disciplined, 
fired or replaced for participating. Still, 
workers fear subtle retaliation that 
the law cannot fully prevent, such as 
constructive dismissal or changes in 
work schedules.
It is still too early to know if this 
strike will achieve its objective and 
whether the workers would get the 
raise they are asking for. But for now, 
something is clear: T eamsters Local 
2010 members of the CX-Unit are 
determined to obtain what they have 
proposed and will not accept an unfair 
and lower offer. They deserve this 
much — as their slogan says, they want 
to be paid enough to live.Among the climate change denier 
and Goldman Sachs executive, 
Donald Trump’s future cabinet has 
been marred by inexperience and old 
money. Such is true for Betsy DeVos, 
the future Secretary of Education, 
whose portfolio includes private 
student loan financing and for-profit 
charter schools with little oversight. 
As secretary of education, she will 
have wide latitude in setting policy 
for our public education, which 
is deeply worrying given her past 
history of elitist actions predominantly 
benefitting the wealthy. 
DeVos’ main strategy for education 
reform revolves around the idea 
of school vouchers, which allow 
parents to receive a voucher to send 
their children to a public or private 
school of their choice. Proponents 
of voucher programs argue that, by 
giving parents more choice, high-
performing schools will prosper and low-performing schools will either 
have to adapt or close their doors. 
However, this approach is marred 
by logistical and civil rights issues. 
Involved parents will undoubtedly 
move their children to a better school, 
causing funding to disappear at lower-
ranked and less-supported schools. 
These underperforming schools, 
which overwhelmingly tend to be 
lower-funded schools, desperately 
need the parental support, additional 
funds and high achievement that 
these students bring yet are effectively 
caught in a “death spiral” as more 
and more students leave. In addition, 
most voucher programs tend to 
benefit only affluent families since 
poorer families are either unable 
to drive their children to a further 
(but better performing) school or 
unfamiliar with the voucher process 
due to language barriers. Furthermore, 
since 79 percent of private schools are religious, voucher programs are 
a not-so-subtle way of removing 
the barrier between state education 
and religion. The voucher program, 
therefore, is intentionally designed 
to only benefit the wealthy, English-
speaking and predominantly Christian 
communities, disadvantaging the 
groups which most desperately                                                 
need education.
In addition, DeVos’ previous 
political activities have been self-
serving, or downright illegal, as noted 
in 2008 when her PAC was fined $5.3 
million after illegally donating excess 
money to a candidate in Ohio. This 
fine has yet to been paid, as DeVos and 
her allies were not caught until after 
the election and then simply defunded 
their PAC. This willingness to blatantly 
ignore the law is concerning, especially 
given her duty to follow Title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act, which prohibits 
federal funding from going toward discriminatory schools or programs. 
In recent years, this has been an 
essential tool for furthering civil rights 
and has frequently been upheld by the 
Supreme Court and executive branch. 
Such examples include cutting federal 
funding for abstinence-only programs 
and threatening to cut funding for 
unequal student loan practices. 
However, DeVos will likely not enforce 
current civil rights policy, leaving 
many discriminated groups open to 
continued harassment while setting 
back civil rights.
Most directly, DeVos’ appetite 
for lobbying and rich friends makes 
her wholly unsuitable for a cabinet 
position. Over the past three decades, 
she has helped pass bills encouraging 
the privatization of public education 
in Detroit, despite evidence showing 
that Detroit charter schools perform 
See EDUCATION , page 5Trump’s pick for Secretary of Education worked 
to privatize education in Detroit for more than 
a decade. Now she takes on a new responsibility: 
ensuring the education of American youth. Education for Whom?BY NATHAN WALKER // ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
 ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
BY ALBA DIEZ-MENA // 
CONTRIBUTING WRITERUC Workers 
Deserve 
Livable WageOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/HomeYOUR CURRENT U-PASS STICKER
IS VALID THROUGH JUNE 30, 2017Triton U-Pass expands transit access for  
UC San Diego students, offering unlimited  
rides throughout the school year.
Students have access to all regional mass transit  
bus and trolley/light rail routes provided by the  
San Diego Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) and  
the North County Transit District (NCTD),  
with some exclusions.U-Pass information, schedules, maps and more:  u-pass.ucsd.eduno better than public schools (and 
sometimes worse). However, her 
financial holdings, while not yet 
fully revealed, have included student 
loan companies, for-profit charter 
schools and textbook companies. 
While in office, she will have 
enormous power to set policy and 
increase her own wealth through 
self-serving measures. A move to 
a voucher program, for example, 
would push money away from 
unions and school teachers (which 
fiercely oppose DeVos) toward 
private and charter schools, which 
in turn reward the DeVos family 
through increased share price. The 
end result is a circle of influence, 
beholden to money and ideology 
rather than facts and education.
DeVos’ main theory revolves 
around the idea of “education as 
industry” or “education as business. ” This ideology looks to success and 
innovation in business and seeks to 
emulate these principles in education. 
Proponents argue that increased 
competition, decreased regulation 
and more parent choice increase 
school performance. However, 
this argument is fundamentally 
flawed; children’s education cannot 
be run like a business without 
serious cuts to public welfare. An 
educational business, for example, 
could decide to sell advertising space 
within classrooms or textbooks, 
subtly encouraging young minds to 
prefer certain products over others. In 
addition, business interests can rewrite 
textbooks and retrain teachers to only 
teach “business-friendly” concepts 
that vilify unions or regulations that 
place limits on corporate greed and 
inequality. Business, like government, 
should be held accountable with proper 
oversight, but “education as industry” 
forgoes oversight and regulation in favor of supposed educational gains 
which rarely appear. Ironically, for all 
Trump promised about “shaking up” 
Washington D.C. to make it free of 
corporate interests, he has promoted a 
business leader intent on using public 
dollars to fund private business.
Betsy DeVos represents a 
dramatic change from the current 
policy landscape of public education 
into the likely future of privately-
run education. Her appointment 
will reverse decades of civil rights 
action, reduce school accountability 
and oversight and fail to cause any 
meaningful increase in educational 
performance, just like it has done 
in Detroit where DeVos has set 
policy for over 10 years. We will 
see education favor the wealthy 
and privileged while disadvantaged 
students continue to be pushed aside.
NA THAN W ALKER    NWALKER@UCSD.EDU▶ EDUCATION, from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
OLIVER KEL TON   / / TIA IKEMOTO
features@ucsdguardian.org
UC San Diego is often preceded by its reputation 
as a STEM-oriented university. In 2016, only four 
percent of undergraduates enrolled as arts or 
humanities majors while 57 percent enrolled as STEM 
majors. However, there are still small communities of 
extremely dedicated and passionate artists on campus who 
are seeking outlets for their creative expression. Some of 
these students feel that the university has exhibited a general 
ambivalence toward fostering the arts. Many spaces for 
artistic expression are being underfunded or ignored by the 
administration and campus at large. 
Marshall Second year Ray Stachowiak and Revelle 
Second year Emmet Webster found that they could express 
themselves through UCSD’s KSDT radio station, located 
near the Old Student Center. The station contains a DJ booth 
surrounded by a library of vinyl records comprised of all 
different genres, spanning the past century. Next door to the 
booth is a practice room and recording studio. The common 
area functions as a hangout space for DJs, musicians, or 
anyone who’s looking for an interesting conversation. 
“The radio is a great space to hangout where school is 
not the center of conversation. People are talking about new 
albums coming out and things like that … It’s a space where 
you’re not constantly thinking about the stresses that are on 
the forefront of everyone else’s mind, ” says Stachowiak. Both 
he and Webster are extremely passionate about music and 
art. They could talk endlessly about their favorite records, 
all the shows they’ve been to or the best places to find            
good vinyls. 
Webster is the station's music director as well as co-host 
to Stachowiak in their show ‘Soul Universe, ’ on from 6 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. on Fridays. The duo plays soul and funk tracks in 
an effort to introduce people to new styles of music.
 Unfortunately, the listenership for any given show 
at KSDT rarely exceeds single digits. When asked why 
they chose to get into radio, Webster promptly replied, “It 
keeps us sane. ” Stachowiak continued, “We both love music 
… I also love being able to hang out in this space. I feel 
comfortable here, and there’s a lot of great resources that are 
underutilized that I’m taking advantage of. ” 
The station hosts an eclectic array of student-run 
shows. In a time in when the popularity of radio is rapidly 
decreasing at the hands of online music platforms like 
Spotify and Apple Music, Stachowiak and Webster maintain 
that the importance and need for radio still exists due to its 
unique nature.
 “I think radio is important and relevant today because it’s 
a different experience than listening to music on Spotify. The 
experience of sitting down and listening to music is greatly 
reduced by the fact that you can just click through songs, 
allowing for a very immediate response, ” says Stachowiak. 
He also recognizes the intimate connection that forms 
between a radio show host and the listener that doesn’t exist 
with online music.
Webster views radio as therapeutic and conducive to 
a healthy mind. “Coming from Los Angeles, I feel like the 
standards for treating yourself well was much higher back 
there. We’re a service, and I wanted to be a part of a service 
that helps people treat themselves a little bit better. Which I 
feel like radio should do. ”
Marshall second year Nariman Piri hosts a show called 
‘Mooky island’ from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Fridays. Piri’s show 
is largely satirical and “highly inappropriate. ” A “Guidelines 
of Community” document had to be drafted in response to 
the edginess of his commentary. He plays underground rap 
mainly sourced from Soundcloud. Piri commented on the 
decline of radio stating bluntly, “Radio is a dying medium. 
Y ou really have to sell yourself and sell your show, otherwise 
it lacks any relevance at all. ” Unfortunately, at a school like 
UCSD, selling a radio show or even drawing interest in the 
performing arts can be difficult.
“This is just my opinion, but if you look at the distribution 
of what people are studying here, it’s pretty apparent that not 
a lot of people are interested in the humanities or the arts, ” 
observed Stachowiak. “I don’t think there is as high of a 
demand for radio. ” 
He and Webster are both of the opinion that the general 
student culture at UCSD, which often shies away from 
the arts, is at least partly attributable to the university 
administration’s ambivalence toward encouraging artistic 
expression. In fact, other colleges seem to be achieving 
great success through platforms like radio despite the rise of 
internet music.
Shanee Dinay is the music director and show host at 
KZSC at UC Santa Cruz. The station is regarded as one 
of the top college stations in the country, being broadcast 
both online and over an FM signal. Every month, 30,000 
to 50,000 people tune in to listen online. “We have a 
lot of dedicated listeners who call in during our pledge 
drives. Certain people call in consistently every single 
time, ” says Dinay. She attributes the listener commitment 
to the intimate relationships the DJs are able to form 
with the audience. The student-run station also throws an 
annual music festival largely consisting of student musicians. 
Despite having a smaller population than UCSD, UCSC also 
has two recording studios, which Dinay observes are often in 
use. “Santa Cruz has a lot of artsy people; people are always 
doing things out on the lawn or getting involved in music. ” 
Obviously, success in marketing the arts is possible in the 
right social climate.
While UCSC has the KZSC festival where student Artistic Expression 
at UCSD
by Harrison Lee // Staff Writer
With UCSD’s strong reputation as a STEM-oriented university, some feel that art and music have 
become a neglected part of the student community. We talked to our university’s musicians and DJs to 
learn how they find space to express their creative sides.
SeeEXPRESSION , page 7Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD GuardianFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
musicians can gain exposure, UCSD has 
the C.H.E. Cafe. The C.H.E. Cafe is a social 
collective, a live music venue, a hub for artistic 
expression and vital for up-and-coming student 
bands. The wooden structure is covered in 
student-painted murals of revolutionary figures 
like Cesar Chavez, Angela Davis, Che Guevara, 
Karl Marx and Malcolm X, demonstrating its 
founders’ beliefs in originalism and freedom. 
Stachowiak and Webster often play at the Cafe 
in their soul and funk band Good Neighbor. The 
group is comprised of seven members, including 
a saxophonist, guitarist, keyboard player and 
trumpet player. Its all-original tunes are fueled 
by grooving bass lines and hard, steady drum 
beats. The horns add a unique and soulful flavor 
to the funk rhythms, underneath the smooth 
and dynamic vocals of W arren Third year  Adam 
Abadilla, the band’s singer. Abadilla really puts 
on a show, absorbing himself in the melodies 
and using the entirety on the stage. 
The Cafe has been a home for countless 
bands, but in the past couple of years the 
university has threatened foreclosure, citing 
building code violations. 
Because the venue is student-run and not 
under direct supervision or control of the 
university, Stachowiak and Webster think the 
attempts at closure were motivated mainly 
out of fear. Webster commented, “They don’t 
have control over it … The C.H.E. is the most 
prominent example of student organized 
performance on campus that the university has 
close to no control over. ”
He continued, “While the C.H.E. and the 
radio are both really good outlets for musicians 
it’s hard to tell how much of that you can actually 
attribute to the university. What we achieved is 
fairly do-it-yourself in spirit, but if you saw the bureaucratic process we had to go through to 
make it happen, it doesn’t make a lot of sense. ”
The Crafts Center of campus also saw closure 
in 2012–13 due to lack of funding. Stachowiak 
admits that the university cannot be fully blamed 
for events like this. 
“It was torn down because it wasn’t used 
enough. It’s evident that because it wasn’t 
so popular [UCSD] see it as dismissible, ” 
Stachowiak concluded.
The physical layout of UCSD also poses 
problems. The structure of the school and lack 
of any sort of main quad discourages student 
gatherings. “It seems to me that the six college 
system and general layout of the school causes 
divisiveness and counters the artistic objective, ” 
says Stachowiak.
In the face of a college environment in which 
student artists might not have an easy path 
to representation, some students are making 
efforts to promote local artists. Last year, Eleanor 
Roosevelt College fourth year Peter McInnis, a 
show host at KSDT , created and hosted what he 
calls “Pocket Office Concerts. ” The shows take 
place in the UCSD Guardian’s main office. Being 
a musician himself, McInnis opened the first 
couple shows playing guitar while his girlfriend 
sang. He then featured several student musicians 
and groups.
“We had the space, and I wanted to fill it with 
a small scale intimate show based off the NPR 
Tiny Desk series, ” says McInnis. In addition to 
featuring acts like ‘Graham Elliot Richardson, 
Rachel Lahr, and Spent Penny, McInnis also 
gave Stachowiak and Webster’s band, Good 
Neighbor, its first official gig. 
“I met Ray (Stachowiak) and Emmet 
(Webster) through KSDT because I saw Good 
Neighbor perform and just thought, ‘This band is awesome, I want to get them on my show. ’”
McInnis actually finds UCSD to be 
reasonably accommodating to student artists, 
citing the radio station as a place where one 
can go and easily find like-minded artists to 
collaborate with. “I would also say Musician’s 
Club is welcoming, and it puts on one show a 
quarter. I had the opportunity to play a show 
which is something I didn’t think I’ d be able to 
do in college, ” he recalls.
 However, McInnis admits that the 
school’s artistic outlets aren’t perfect.“The studio 
is small. There’s one studio. I’m a drummer, 
and I came to campus prepared to learn guitar 
because there aren’t any drum sets on campus. 
Conrad Prebys Music Center isn’t great at giving 
out practice space to up-and-coming musicians. ”
From the outside, the culture at UCSD may 
appear less than inviting for student artists. 
However there’s no doubt that groups of 
passionate and talented artists exist here. With 
more representation and performance outlets 
like the KSDT radio station, the C.H.E. Cafe 
and Pocket Office Concerts, these talented 
individuals will be able to more easily expressive 
themselves in the capacity they deserve.
Webster concluded with some thoughts on 
the importance of art in the college environment.
“The university benefits from making this 
intense atmosphere where students just work 
and work and work … and when I came here 
it freaked me out how many people didn’t do 
things for themselves … art helps people relax 
and treat themselves better. It keeps us sane. ”
Natalia Roudakova was 16 when the Soviet Union 
fell. She tells me in a mild Russian accent that no 
particular memory stands out to her regarding 
the empire’s collapse. It was too gradual. States slipped away 
one by one, starting from the edges and working in until 15 
members became three. Then those three met in 1991 and 
decided their Soviet Union wasn’t a union anymore and that 
was that.
What Roudakova does remember is the crippling debt 
that followed Soviet Russia’s collapse. She remembers 
“becoming really poor really fast, ” while classmates whose 
parents worked the black market started showing up to 
school in nicer and nicer clothing.
“I felt like I couldn’t afford things, ” she said. “I just started 
reading more to rise above it. ”
What started as a means of escape quickly became 
a passion. Literature was Roudakova’s vehicle for higher 
knowledge, a way to understand the human condition 
beyond her own limited circumstances. It was the starting 
point on her journey to experience as much of humanity as 
she possibly could.
Today, associate professor Natalia Roudakova, Ph.D. sits 
before me at a wobbly plastic table. Music thumps cheerily 
from the Mandeville Coffee Cart a few yards away. She is so 
petite that her thick cream coat swallows up her shoulders, 
leaving a smiling head with brown hair cropped close to her 
skull. She has an endearing habit of addressing her students 
as “folks, ” as well as a love for tangoing and ocean swimming. 
Her pleasant nature doesn’t hint whatsoever to a past full of 
political upheaval, ethnic tensions and teenage rebellion.
Roudakova was born in 1975. She grew up in Kazan, 
a large industrial city that was home to Russia’s largest 
ethnic minority, the Tatars. In Kazan, Orthodox Russians 
set their differences aside, living peacefully with the Turk-
speaking Muslims in what she calls the “Soviet version of 
multiculturalism. ” She describes her childhood as modest 
but comfortable. Her family had an apartment, secure jobs 
and nearly two months of annual vacation time which they 
spent traveling to places like the Black Sea. “Time flowed 
slowly, ” she recalls, smiling.
However, ethnic tensions between the Orthodox Russians 
and Muslims soon stiffened as satellite states declared 
independence and seceded from the Soviet Union. Fear 
that the Tatars would do the same led to mistrust within the 
community. People would try to determine one’s ethnicity 
before deciding how to treat them.
“It was strange, ” she said, “For a while you would think, 
ok, is this person Tatar? Is this person Russian? It became 
awkward. ” Roudakova felt confused about the sudden 
hostility in Kazan based on differences that hadn’t mattered 
before. “ Are we supposed to hate our neighbors now?” she 
asked herself.
Questioning the status quo was a common occurrence 
throughout Roudakova’s adolescence. Despite being shy, 
the teenager had developed strong critical thinking skills 
from a healthy reading habit. When she was 13, Roudakova 
organized an open discussion at her school to challenge the requirement that all teenagers had to join the Communist 
Y outh Organization.
“I remember I was quite disappointed because the party 
officials didn’t show up, ” Roudakova said. She even went 
through the trouble of organizing the chairs in a circle to 
promote equality of the participants. “I don’t know where 
I was getting those ideas, ” she laughed. “It must have been 
in the air. ” It was impossible not to be influenced by the 
atmosphere of political activism surrounding her childhood 
in the late ‘80s.
Previously, education had been one-sided and pro-
government. Conversation that criticized communism was 
unheard of. The election of Gorbachev in 1985 ushered 
in a new era of glasnost and perestroika, or openness and 
restructuring. “Just having those words said was thrilling, ” 
Roudakova explained. By the time she was 16, Roudakova 
was a part of the rebellious youth, testing out the boundaries 
of this new concept of political transparency. “It was a 
fantastically lucky time to be coming of age, ” she said. “The 
city was on fire. ”
Although the economic collapse that followed the Soviet 
Union’s downfall was devastating to her family, Roudakova 
is nonetheless thankful for the opportunity to have grown 
up in such an intellectually stimulating environment. Her 
beliefs and traditions were challenged by the contradictions 
of her reality. The Soviet Union fell because it gave its citizens 
freedom of speech, which they then used to attack the Soviet 
Union. And whereas previously communism meant that 
everyone had the same amount of stuff, suddenly classmates 
were already beginning to differentiate themselves through 
personal wealth. Thrust into a poverty deeper than the Great 
Depression, Roudakova embraced literature and language 
study with even more fervor than before, ultimately leading 
her to study abroad in the U.S.
Roudakova’s time at Beloit College in Wisconsin helped 
her realize she liked studying people over texts. Whereas she 
had intensively studied Russian literature back at home, in 
the U.S. she had the opportunity to dabble in anthropology, 
political science and psychology—opening her eyes to 
the world of social science. Roudakova never experienced 
culture shock in the tiny town because she approached each 
new situation as a curious ethnographer would approach a 
subject of study. She carried around a notebook to write down 
colloquialisms overheard from everyday conversations. Each 
night she would sit down and have her roommate, Paige, 
explain the slang to her. True to her thirst for academia, 
Roudakova’s favorite memories from the experience were 
studying and speaking a foreign language daily.
Studying abroad led Roudakova to her largest academic 
experience yet, her Ph.D. work. From Beloit, she learned 
about graduate school and doctorate programs. She applied 
to several Ph.D. programs, finally choosing Stanford because 
it offered fellowships specifically to former Soviet citizens. 
She entered into the socio-cultural anthropology program 
without really knowing what the discipline was. Studying 
cultural processes seemed like a real world extension of 
her literature degree. Now, instead of exploring the human condition in fiction, she would learn how real people 
sought meaning in their lives. The readings were dense 
and confusing for a non-native speaker, especially one with 
zero experience in anthropology, but the hardest part of the 
program was having to reading Marx. “I had such an aversion 
to him, ” she says, “I even said to my professors, ‘Y ou expect 
me to read Marx? Don’t you guys know that the Soviet Union 
is over? That Marxism did not work?’” Her advisors had to 
convince her to set her personal feelings aside and read his 
critiques of capitalism in order to better understand Russia’s 
ailing economy. She did so, reading his work translated into 
her original Russian language and ultimately growing to 
appreciate his “morbid sense of humor. ”
Roudakova first started her doctorate work at the age of 
25, documenting the corruption of journalism in Russia. 
From literature to anthropology, Roudakova’s interest in 
academia has been driven by the need to make meaning out 
of humanity.
“ Anthropology, ” she says, “is just a way to study how 
people grapple with these big questions of the human 
condition as they make their way through life. ” She holds 
journalists in the highest respect because they guide society 
through such questions on a daily basis.
She remembers one journalist telling her, “Y ou’re doing 
what we’re doing, only your deadline is five years from now 
and ours is tomorrow. ”
She connected with the way that journalists interpreted 
the world around them through the words of others, the 
way that both anthropologists and journalists “get to live 
another person’s life for a short time. ” That’s why it was so 
hard for her to watch her peers in Russia slowly cave under 
the pressures of politics.
Once commercial media became more popular in the 
early 2000s, journalists were forced to sell themselves out 
to political parties to make a living. Some tried to stay 
independent and work honorably, but journalism became a 
tarnished field. “I saw a lot of people who loved journalism 
and held on as long as they could, ” Roudakova said, “they 
still weren’t ready to give it up. ” She watched them stay in 
denial about the futility of their careers until it was too late.
Roudakova came away from that experience changed. 
In all of her time studying the human condition, she had 
never gone through anything this hard before. It gave her an 
appreciation for the challenges people face, and as a person 
who truly loves people, she still insists, “It was all a joy. ” She 
is grateful for every human experience she gets to witness 
because it means she is that much closer to answering life’s 
big questions. When I asked her why she was so fascinated 
with finding meaning in culture, she replied, “I always went 
for the biggest questions there were, ” and then went on to 
admit she’s been considering trying out philosophy to see if 
they might have the answers. Regardless of what philosophy 
has to say, I don’t think she’ll ever stop asking life’s big 
questions. She’ll always love learning new answers. Harrison  Lee  hhl032@ucsd.edu
SeeEXPRESSION , page 7▶ EXPRESSION , from page 6
BEHIND THE LECTERN
Natalia Roudakova - The Human in Love with HumanityBy Tia Ikemoto / / Features Editor
Tia  Ikemoto  tikemoto@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKENDFAVORITE
FILM
FAVORITE ShowRogue One : A 
Star Wars Story
“Rogue One: A Star W ars Story” had huge expectations to meet. Being a filler until Episode 
VIII’s pending release, it had to prove there was a story worth telling. Did we really need to know 
how a ragtag group of rebels stole the Death Star plans? Y es, actually, we did. Y ou can expect to see 
great characters and an action-packed plot that has become standard in Star Wars films, but it’s also 
a surprisingly compelling war movie, since it focuses more on the rebels rather than Jedi. “Rogue 
One” ties up the loose ends from “ A New Hope, ” provides fan service with familiar elements from 
the Star W ars universe and still manages to be its own stand-alone movie. It isn’t flawless, but damn 
if it isn’t entertaining.
– Ellysa Lim
Staff WriterJackie  
“Jackie” is indeed a history lesson but not in the standard sense. 
Y ou won’t find a beat-for-beat account of the days leading up to and 
following the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Instead, the 
film presents a reorganized interpretation of these few agonizing days to 
examine our relationship with history — a dark and brutal affair for both 
those remembering and those being remembered. Throughout “Jackie, ” 
you constantly feel as if you’re in a tug-of-war between the past and the 
present, as Jackie Kennedy (Natalie Portman) grows anxious over how 
history will look back on her family and as we try to decipher how we 
should. Director Pablo Larrain focuses in on this time-encompassing 
dilemma, with a harrowing score from composer Mica Levi, to construct 
a film that incisively critiques our superficial fascination with the stars 
and stories of history.
– Jacky To
Senior Staff Writer
La La Land
Damien Chazelle’s contemporary Hollywood musical is a triumph of technique and emotion. Emma 
Stone and Ryan Gosling reprise their roles as lovers with amazing on-screen chemistry. This time, Stone 
plays a small-time actress who dreams of making it big, and Gosling takes the role of a jazz musician trying 
to save the dying genre. Their paths cross many times before they fall in love, and their first kiss occurs 
only halfway through the movie’s runtime. Chazelle both pays tribute to and expands on classic musicals 
by moving the plot beyond the obvious happy ending, introducing 21st-century problems that complicate 
the couple’s chances. With a beautifully composed score by Justin Hurwitz, impressive cinematography, 
immersive long takes and an epilogue that will stay in your mind long after the end credits, “La La Land” 
is truly a dream come true.
– Kenji Bennett
Staff Writer
Deadpool
“Deadpool, ” a stand-alone movie in a sea of trilogies, is the best superhero 
movie of 2016. The dark comedy features good old-fashioned revenge instead of 
the grandiose extraterrestrial conflict of late, a great balance between humor and 
drama and most importantly, Ryan Reynolds. This is one of the few superhero 
films that shows the consequences of the violent worlds superheroes live in. Instead 
of ignoring all the casualties or waiting several films to explore that concept, it dives 
in right off the bat. With all its originality, there is no surprise that “Deadpool” has 
been nominated for so many awards.
– Rachel Novotny
Senior Staff WriterArrival
On the surface, “ Arrival” is a visually rich alien-encounter film, but beneath 
its sci-fi veneer is a film about language, determinism and cooperation. 
After 12 mysterious pods appear around the globe, the U.S. military recruits 
linguist Louise Banks (Amy Adams) to communicate with these visitors, 
who are some of the most intriguing and otherworldly aliens ever depicted. 
Their written language, consisting of circular splatters, is as mesmerizing 
as it is utterly foreign, and “ Arrival” uses this complexity and strangeness 
to challenge assumptions about the linearity of language. Throughout the 
film, we experience sequences that illustrate the life, illness and death of 
Banks’ daughter. Like the alien language, these sequences exist free from the 
constraint of time. Through ingenious editing and writing, “ Arrival” seamlessly 
weaves its heady themes into an emotionally moving narrative. Even though 
“ Arrival” is cerebral, far-fetched science fiction, director Denis Villeneuve 
approaches it with the gravity, detail and urgency that it deserves.
– Naftali Burakovsky
A&E Associate Editor
Horace Pete
Louis C.K. is a pragmatic auteur. He cut through network 
interference and headed for total autonomy by running “Louie” 
on a skeletal budget in exchange for creative freedom. This deal 
is what nurtured the deep humanity and surreal tendencies lying 
in C.K. ’s heart, all of which come to blossom in a fractal beauty 
through his self-funded online series “Horace & Pete” — a story 
of two cousins inheriting a bar and an accompanying lifestyle 
defined by apathy. Goaded by the past through the nostalgic 
and foul Uncle Pete, a perfectly-cast Alan Alda, Horace (Louis 
C.K.) struggles to make any day feel more than superfluous. 
Edie Falco and Jessica Lange’s presences round out the cast as 
two more insufferable souls bound by habit instead of need. C.K. 
transcribes the mundane meticulously, granting each installment 
with lived-in dialogue that is equal parts poetic and prosaic, 
while the series’ vignette structure helps tell a tale of a crumbling 
Irish dynasty.
– Sam Velazquez
A&E EditorThe Night Of
Murder investigations, courtroom dramas and life in prison are all tropes that have 
been overplayed by modern television. “The Night Of ” proves there is still room to tell 
an intelligent, unique story that makes all of these rote elements appear fresh. Told over 
the course of eight episodes, this HBO miniseries has 
a critical eye and focus, effectively developing 
and concluding the story of Nasir Khan, a 
Pakistani college student who is arrested 
and put on trial for the murder of a 
girl he had only met on the night of 
her death. We witness his life being 
affected by the politics of various lawyers, 
the threats of imprisonment at Rikers 
Island and his transformation 
into an entirely new person on 
the other side. One of the most 
powerful aspects of the series 
is that, unlike many shows and 
films today, it works as a stand-
alone piece without the need for 
any sequels or prequels, ending 
on a powerful conclusion that 
leaves more questions than 
answers about the world we all 
live in.
– Kenji Bennett
Staff WriterStranger Things
The Duffer Brothers’ breakout hit “Stranger Things” seemed to be the only thing people talked about during the dog days of 
summer, and for good reason. A tribute to 1980s cinema, channeling the horror, sci-fi and child-centric narratives of the decade, 
the show manages to be both nostalgic and original, both terrifyingly suspenseful and heartwarming. After a seemingly ordinary 
night of playing Dungeons and Dragons with his three friends, Mike, Will and Lucas, 12-year-old Will Byers mysteriously 
vanishes on his way home, abducted by an unknown creature. The next night, the three friends attempt to find Will and come 
across a strange girl, simply named Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown), with even stranger abilities. Over the course of its eight 
episodes, “Stranger Things” builds and maintains mystery and suspense with its deep and twisted mythos. Still, the show’s 
nostalgia and haunting atmosphere are transcended by its compelling storytelling.
– Naftali Burakovsky
A&E Associate Editor Pitch
“Pitch” follows a fictional 
female pitcher as she is drafted by 
the San Diego Padres and is one of 
the best shows of 2016. A standout 
sports drama, Pitch focuses more 
on the social and cultural issues 
a woman would face entering a 
professional men’s sport, on top 
of the pressures that come with 
professional athletics. The show 
does a great job of walking the 
line between the fantasy of women 
in professional baseball and the 
real challenges that teams face. 
Ginny faces the pressure of being 
the first female baseball player — 
a premise that could potentially 
happen in the near future since, 
this year, two women were signed 
to a minor league team, and 
one woman was recruited to a 
collegiate team. “Pitch” shows 
viewers a future we’re ready for 
and working toward.
– Rachel Novotny
Senior Staff Writer112263
If you are into historical sci-fi and also happen to have a Hulu 
subscription, then Stephen King’s classic, “11.22.63, ” should be on 
your must-watch list. The miniseries follows Jake Epping (James 
Franco), who is introduced to a time tunnel by diner owner Al 
Templeton (Chris Cooper) that leads the traveler to an exact 
location and time in 1960. After Al unexpectedly dies, it is up to 
Jake to complete his task: to prevent the assassination of President 
John F. Kennedy. And what is a successful time-travel series without 
a doomed love interest he encounters in the past, Sadie Dunhill 
(Sarah Gadon)? “11.22.63” is a time-traveling thriller without the 
clichés of an actual time machine and a crazy scientist, yet manages 
to be as gripping as King’s novel itself, with the help of Franco’s 
charming performance alongside brutal supporting characters. 
At only eight episodes, the show keeps a quick pace, but its sturdy 
direction makes it easy to get tangled up in all the suspense and 
action, while still maintaining some historical accuracy.
– Melissa Palafox
Staff Writer
Illustration by Christina Carlson/UCSD Guardian
Illustration by Leanne Chen/UCSD GuardianLeanneChenA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
24K Magic
by Bruno Mars
The king of funk and soul is back again with a striking gem, “24K Magic. ” A party 
soundtrack that wouldn’t seem out of place in the ‘80s, “24K Magic” captures the 
essence of a smooth, funky affair with appealing upbeat lyrics Bruno Mars never 
fails to fulfill. Y ou can hear the influences of Prince mixed with Macklemore’s 
“Downtown” in the title track. The album’s pinnacle, “Chunky, ” is everything 
a party anthem acquires, filled with head-bopping bass that makes it 
perfect to dance to. Of course, Mars isn’t one to forget R&B and Soul 
when he croons his soft notes in the ever so sensual “Versace on the 
Floor. ” “Finesse” can give Bell Biv DeVoe fans nostalgia, while “Too 
Good to Say Goodbye” closes the album in his signature, sensual tempo 
filled with smooth piano and accentuating synths. His pleasing and soulful 
vocals should be enough to search this album up on Spotify.
– Melissa Palafox
Staff WriterFAVORITE
Album22, A Million  
by Bon Iver
After “Bon Iver, Bon Iver” dropped in 2011, Justin Vernon traded in his rustic-folk guitar for 
a garage-sale synthesizer — and “22, A Million” is the eclectic, Grammy-snatching result. Vernon 
contorts his plaintive voice into a half-dozen combinations to produce a singular sound best 
described as “folktronica” — whatever that is. “22, A Million” is a striking and emotionally vibrant 
album, deserving every accolade it has garnered, being a curious melange of hard-hitting drums 
and brass that excites even as it disturbs. 
– Alicia Lepler
A&E Editorial Assistant
The Altar
by BANKS
“The Altar” is what emotion sounds like. Jillian Banks released her sophomore album this 
past year, a collection of inventive songs and sweeping emotion. Unfortunately, it was also one of the most 
underrated albums of the year, receiving little critical or popular attention despite BANKS’ large following 
and multiple festival appearances. “The Altar’s” sound can be divided into two of BANKS’ strongest 
features: songs that are catchy and pop-influenced and slower ballads that strip down the instrumentals 
to reveal the true ability of BANKS’ unique and endearing voice. The album consists of songs that have 
deeply personal messages, ranging from struggling with self-identity (“F*** with Myself ”), being a 
woman in today’s society (“Weaker Girl”) and relationships (“This Is Not About Us”). Charismatic both 
in interviews and as a voice on the album, one can’t help but empathize with BANKS’ vulnerable cries for 
understanding and universal struggles.
– Kenji Bennett
Staff WriterStarboy
by The Weeknd
Telling a story of death and rebirth, the record-breaking single “Starboy” 
explores The Weeknd’s common themes of luxury, drugs and sex. He boasts 
how his “side bitch out of your league too, ah” over a retro pattern of popping 
drums and snares. The Weeknd continues to create edgy, poppy R&B by 
pairing his incredible, light voice with the sounds of Daft Punk. In the chorus 
of “Starboy, ” The Weeknd confronts himself and the audience by saying “Look 
what you’ve done, ” both blaming and praising himself and his audience for 
catapulting him to stardom. The Weeknd is either blissfully accepting or 
longingly regretting his new wealth and explosive celebrity status at his young 
age. While the intent of his message remains ambiguous, it is nevertheless 
undeniable that Abel Tesfaye, aka The Weeknd, is a starboy.
– Naftali Burakovsky
A&E Associate EditorSEPT . 5th
by dvsn
The debut album of singer-producer duo, dvsn, represents somewhat 
of a renaissance for the R&B genre in that it revives the classics so as 
to adapt them to the present day. For every note of familiarity put 
forth, one of novelty follows. The album also relies on one of the topical 
foundations of rhythm and blues: sex. However, as hyper-explicit as the 
project is, don’t mistake dvsn’s sensuality for promiscuity. As expressed in 
the album’s title track — “I could make it better off / If I could have sex with 
you” — sex, for dvsn, is not just an act of physical placation. It’s a pleasure-ridden 
path toward emotional growth and conciliation. Whereas artists like The Weeknd 
and Frank Ocean are challenging the very foundations of the genre, dvsn is instead using 
them to modernize it, utilizing the sounds, hooks and vibes of the genre’s heyday to create 
music that still manages to look forward.
– Jacky To
Senior Staff Writer
LeanneChenIllustration by Sam Xu/UCSD Guardian10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
Walking under the gaudy, green and orange archway of the Gaslamp 
Quarter, one feels like they’re going back in time. Past meets present 
with trendy restaurants, bars and clubs housed in Victorian-esque 
buildings. Tall, unique lampposts were added to evoke the feeling of old gas 
lamps, the namesake of the district, marking the 16 blocks. The streets are an 
eclectic combination of brick and glass, cobblestone streets and neon lights, 
arched windows and lively chatter, and have become a place where all kinds of 
people work and play. 
“Historic Heart of San Diego, ” the byline of the entrance sign proudly reads. 
The district began in 1850 when William Heath Davis attempted to create a 
city on San Diego’s beautiful waterfront. While Davis failed, Alonzo Horton, 
also attracted to the waterfront, had the same idea nearly 20 years later, and 
his plans to build a new downtown succeeded. Commerce blossomed, but the 
once-promising neighborhood eventually attracted prostitutes and gamblers, and 
the area came to be known fittingly as the Stingaree after the vicious stingrays 
in the San Diego Bay. The Gaslamp was notorious for its adult businesses and 
less-than-par reputation until the 1970s, when an effort to breathe a new type of life into the district began with rehabilitation and redevelopment efforts. In 
1980, the Gaslamp Quarter landed a place on the National Register of Historic 
Places, and the city has attempted to preserve its historic significance ever since. 
While Victorian buildings are not hard to find on the East Coast, the West 
Coast has few; the Gaslamp is home to the largest number of these west of the       
Mississippi River. 
The Gaslamp Quarter has since turned into a favored destination not only 
for San Diegans but the rest of the country. The food choices are as diverse as 
the people who visit and so are the drinks. It’s a popular choice for nightlife; 
walking down the sidewalks on the weekend, it’s almost as if there’s a boozy — 
yet still bright — atmosphere in the air. If you’re not hungry, shopping options 
range from high fashion to popular chain stores to shops with little oddities. The 
Gaslamp also has a booming arts scene, with plenty of galleries, museums and 
shows to satiate any art lover. Live music floods the streets and adds the perfect 
last touch to this diverse and colorful scene. There’s something for everyone 
in the Gaslamp, and it’s an important part of San Diego history that seems to 
transcend time.Gaslamp: The Match Under San Diego’s Fire
by Annika Olives // Staff WriterDissected by the CA-15 and El Cajon Boulevard, City Heights is often cast aside as a juxtaposing urban byproduct of either overly gentrified apartment 
complexes or local disinvestment. But this perpetuated facade of what is, in actuality, a beautiful community of strategic, tactical urbanism and intersecting 
culture, keeps City Heights at a low. Historically, 92105 might not be the most sought-after zip code in San Diego, but since the City Heights Urban Village 
Project was headed by architect Jack McGrory, community involvement and appropriate developments have helped this gem of a neighborhood shine a bit brighter. 
A gateway to the global, there is much to appreciate in City Heights. As one of San Diego’s — if not California’s — biggest refugee and immigrant communities, 
City Heights is a hub of culture and innovation, a reflection of what the city with open arms should embody. This community doesn’t abide by a “come-and-go” 
philosophy, but rather invites visitors to stay, all the while attempting to challenge norms and prioritize people on the most individual and personal level. So the next 
time you’re crossing the 805, make sure to keep City Heights in heart and mind. 
 Not to Miss …
tCity Heights Coffee Shop (4323 El Cajon Blvd) — A personal and local favorite, City Heights Coffee Shop isn’t just serving up coffee but also serves lessons on 
sociocultural awareness and human compassion. Known to serve “culturally authentic drinks, ” like the must-tries Masala Chai, Cafe de Olla and a signature 
Turkish brew, City Heights Coffee Shop offers a menu as diverse as the community it’s in. And, as a non-profit organization, this cafe also looks to “offer 
employment to marginalized people groups” within San Diego. Make sure to stop by and grab a cup that keeps you woke in more ways than one. 
tNew Roots Community Farm (Chollas Parkway N) — A piece of green in the midst of gray, this urban farm was cultivated to give space for families to connect 
with land in the purest way. This urbanist’s crusade against food insecurity has even garnered a visit from Michelle Obama and is setting a new tone for the 
sustainable city. So don’t just stop by for a visit, but see how you too can help the green grow.
tCity Heights Farmer’s Market (43rd and Fairmount) — Combating conglomerate agribusiness and supporting local farmers, artisans and businesses, CHFM 
meets every Saturday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. to offer the community affordable produce and global cuisine. Make sure to stop by for in-season fruits and 
vegetables, and don’t forget to pick up a sambusa or two. City Heights Highlights 
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
photo by Joselynn Ordaz // UCSD GuardianLIFESTYLE   THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
 
h^ ŚĂƐ ĂŶ ŝŶƚĞƌŶƐŚŝƉ ĨŽƌ ǇŽƵ ! 
Public Service, ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ, Education, ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ , 
Health, /ŵŵŝŐƌĂƟŽŶ , International, :ŽƵƌŶĂůŝƐŵ , 
Law, >ĞŐŝƐůĂƚƵƌĞ , Local Government, DĞĚŝĂ, NonͲ
Profit  
&Žƌ ŵŽƌĞ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƟŽŶ͕ ƉůĞĂƐĞ ǀŝƐŝƚ  
ǁǁǁ͘ƵĐĐƐ͘ƵĐĚĂǀŝƐ͘ĞĚ͘  
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La J ollaFREE BURRITO
when you buy 1 b urrito & 2 Mexican soda sDine-in onlPresent this coupon at the cash register
EXPIRE S 1/31/17
to.ucsd.eduSHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
OPEN THIS WEEK
P& P/$=$ Ć DPSP
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableKnown to be the college student’s haven for cheap beer and cheaper tacos, Pacific 
Beach (more colloquially known as “PB”) is the epicenter of coastal recreation and 
Southern California stereotypes. Parking may be a nightmare, but the sand and 
surf are a dream. 
Historically, PB remained relatively rural, with only spots of suburbia dotting the ever-
doubtful and relatively vulnerable coastline. Prior to becoming a hotspot for tourists and 
natives, PB was just another stretch of land bordered by the I-5 and, fittingly, the Pacific 
Ocean. But with post-war land value on the rise and a new wave trend rooted in rest and 
relaxation, development boomed and Crystal Pier was reimagined to accommodate the 
new bourgeois. The boardwalk would bring commerce, capitalizing on Mother Nature’s 
sandy beaches and blue waters. PB became to San Diego what Santa Monica is to Los 
Angeles. 
Now, Taco Tuesday and Happy Hour dominate the cuisine scene, surfers and sunbathers 
occupy the shores and beach cottages, and quaint boutiques dot the boardwalk. Gaining 
acclaim as the ultimate tourist hub, PB has made its mark in San Diego. So grab a bike or 
board and make sure to visit this San Diegan spot that looks nothing short of a “Welcome 
to California” postcard. 
Not to Miss …
tFat Fish (Mission Blvd) —Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday — the tacos are good here 
anyday. If you’re of age, try a margarita, but if not, the lemonade’s pretty good too. 
And make sure to pick up one or two or five of the shrimp tacos. 
tBaked Bear — And just a few blocks over, some of San Diego’s most iconic ice cream 
sandwiches are being served. Filled with classic flavors like mint chip, or the more 
original Bear Batter, and sandwiched between carb-filled treats of your choosing 
(from brownies to donuts to cookies), Baked Bear is sure to leave you on a high. 
tRum Jungle Cafe — In case you need a cleanse from the tacos and ice cream, this 
cafe features healthy wraps, six different acai blend bowls and a smorgasbord of 
smoothies. 
tBuffalo Exchange — The Urban Outfitters of thrift shops might not be signature to 
PB’s scene, but in the midst of this beach-and-boardwalk heaven, you know there 
are bound to be good finds, without the PacSun prices.Life’s a Beach, Make it Pacific 
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  LIFESTYLE
SocialPowerHourSocial
Power
Hour
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PM
FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!FREE MUSIC AND FOOD!
JAN
19If you’ve heard of North Park through word-of-mouth, it might have been heralded as the 
epitome of an urban crawl or maybe written off as just another hipster’s oasis. However, North 
Park — whose nomenclature sounds akin to some lost older brother of a perversely comedic 
television series — has actually served as San Diego’s adult playground since the 1900s. 
This buzzing hub sits just under Normal Heights and is anything but commonplace. Interestingly 
enough, North Park fits that exact geographic bill: slightly off-beat and embracing all things 
extraordinary. A walk around these pedestrian-friendly streets will grant you a mix of some history 
and some modernity.
Visit consignment stores like Thrift Trader, the Costco of quirky vintage treasures. Heed the post 
by the cash register which notes that they unfortunately do not accept blood oaths, firstborns, farm 
animals nor arranged marriages as forms of payments. Or visit Auntie Helen’s, which is chock full of 
the types of clothes you would expect. But if you don’t like digging around in your distant relative’s 
crazy and colorful closet, then you can go to Frock Y ou Vintage Clothing shopping, which offers 
Huge Frocking Sales on garments from every decade, starting from the 1930s to whenever people 
stopped wearing frocks or making frocks altogether. Or check into another cheeky dress store, like 
The Girl Can’t Help It!, which unapologetically flaunts loud fashion pieces that promise a fun time. 
This community prides itself on its intertwining arts — not only in its sights, but also in its 
sounds. North Park’s shining jewel, The Observatory, has hosted a plethora of artists, and its 
glistening marquee has boasted a spectrum of genres. The evidently all-encompassing music roster 
for upcoming future performers includes: Erykah Badu, Cold War Kids, Vince Staples, The Shins, 
TCHAMI and even the beloved viral duo William Singe with Alex Aiono. 
But before you stumble into the velvet halls of this classic concert venue, grab a bite at any one 
of the hundreds of various kitchens. With the modern implementation of Y elp, visitors can find 
reviews that attest to North Park’s quality eats. Here are some classic grubs, as testified by thousands 
of fellow foodies: 
t$JUZ5BDPT The menu here blends tried-and-true ingredients of a classic taco with atypical 
toppings. They offer bold flavors in the form of leeks, bacon, scallops and portobello 
mushrooms, all without forgoing an authentic taco taste. Drop in on a Taco Tuesday — you 
won’t regret it. 
t$BSOJUBT4OBDL4IBDL Don’t be fooled: This is no snack shack. Y our taste buds may be 
overwhelmed by their famous Pork Belly App, which is a slab of tenderly braised Duroc 
pork lovingly glazed with sweet and spicy overtones. Stop by for a full body of flavor and a 
punch to your palette. 
t-VDIB-JCSF The underdog of good burrito joints actually won San Diego City Beat’ s Best 
Burrito Award a few years back. Be sure to come in for a bite, and don’t get distracted by the 
numerous variations of sparkling wrestling masks decorated around the store. 
t4USFFU$BS .FSDIBOUT  Look no further: Y ou won’t find a better place to find food for your 
soul. Their craft is specialized in perfecting the crispy K-town chicken, with glaze choices 
of molasses wasabi barbeque, honey sesame or Sriracha mayonnaise. It’s been said that good 
things come to those who wait, and here at StreetCar Merchants, beautiful mouthwatering 
dishes are served to the patient. Their flavor-infused fried chicken is so deliciously juicy, you 
won’t be able to differentiate succulence from salivation. 
The community in North Park has been welcoming and appreciative of the multifaceted culture 
that has developed in the heart of the city over the past hundred years, and we’re sure you will be too. A Walk in the (North) Park
by Jocelyn Yang // Staff Writer
photo by Joselynn Ordaz // UCSD GuardianCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
NEW ORLEANS
SWAMP DONKEYS
THE LOFT • PRICE CENTER EAST, LEVEL 2TahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 16 - JAN 222017POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 1.16 WED1.18SAT1.21 8pm
THU1.19
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE1.17
7pm
ST YEAR GRAD WINTER 
COMPOSITION JURY CONCERT 
- CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT 
HALL
First year graduate students studying 
composition will present their winter jury 
concert at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, January 18, 
2017 in the Conrad Prebys Concert Hall. The 
evening will feature performances of works by 
Joseph Bourdeau, John Burnett, Yi-Hsien 
Chen, Ioannis Mitsialis, Anthony Vine and 
Tiange Zhou. Their pieces will be performed by 
first year graduate performers Barbara Byers 
(vocals), Lauren Jones (vocals), Mari 
Kawamura (piano), Daniel King (percussion), 
Jordan Morton (double bass) and Benjamin 
Rempel (percussion).
Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu
7:30am
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE 
LOFT - THE LOFT @ UCSD 
FREE for UCSD students with valid ID! Music. 
Spoken word. Rants... everything is welcome! 
Take the stage and share your talent with us 
at our first You at the Loft of the quarter... this 
time with free food!  Not a performer? Come 
on by and enjoy some great performances by 
fellow students and enjoy complementary 
flatbreads provided by Zanzibar Cafe. Doors: 
7:00 PM.  Show: 7:30 PM  Contact: 
avpconcerts@ucsd.edu2pm
INTERFAITH DIALOGUE: OPEN TO 
ALL FAITH AND NON-FAITH 
BACKGROUNDS - RED SHOE 
ROOM, PC WEST
Join us for an interfaith dialogue as we discuss 
our lived experiences and spiritual journeys. Come 
prepared to learn from others, ask questions, and 
honor our shared humanity. Contact: 
getinvolved@ucsd.edute the program! Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
4pm
INSIDE INNOVATION FEATURING 
DR. CATRIONA JAMIESON - ROTH 
AUDITORIUM, SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM
Catriona Jamieson, M.D., Ph.D., is Associate 
Professor of Medicine in the Division of 
Hematology-Oncology, Chief of the Division of 
Regenerative Medicine, Deputy Director of the 
Sanford Stem Cell Clinical Center, Co-Leader of 
the Hematologic Malignancies Program, and 
Director of Stem Cell Research at the Moores UCSD 
Cancer Center. Inside Innovation is a presentation 
series featuring the latest innovative technologies 
developed by UC San Diego researchers. Get an 
inside look at what is happening in the labs, 
explore commercialization opportunities and 
inquire about licensing. Contact: 
innovation@ucsd.edu
SAT1.21
8pm
NEW ORLEANS SWAMP DONKEYS 
AT ARTPOWER - THE LOFT
UCSD Student: $9 Featuring an all-star cast of 
fresh, brilliant musicians from around the 
country, the versatile New Orleans Swamp 
Donkeys perform jass, blues, vaudeville, original 
music, modern jazz adaptations, and many 
other New Orleans  derived styles. After selling 
out the Blue Note NYC in 2014, the Donkeys 
released two new albums: Swamp Donkeys (all 
pre-1930s covers) and Donkey Business (all 
original material). The group gained 
international Internet fame when their version of 
the Game of Thrones theme garnered over a 
million views. This melting pot of American 
musical cultures brings people together from all 
walks of life. Welcome to the most exciting, 
soulful, foot-tapping, New Orleans  style band to 
storm the planet in years. Contact: 
artpower@ucsd.edu2pm
HOW TO BECOME A LEADER? 
PRACTICE SELF CARE ILEAD 
WORKSHOP - CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER
Learn about a range of ways for enacting 
leadership within yourself. Find out self-care 
routines that fit your schedule, and are easy to 
stay consistent with. Learn about healthy tips that 
lead to the promotion of great leadership habits. 
Presented by Danielle Davis, Lead Peer Educator, 
Center for Student Involvement Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES AT INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE - INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
Want to study abroad? Interested in sharing your 
language skills with others? Then come to LCT! 
The Language Conversation Tables are one of 
International House's most popular programs. 
Each quarter, students host a variety of 
languages for UC San Diego students, staff, 
faculty, and community members to learn and 
practice another language in a fun and casual 
environment. Language Conversation Tables are 
especially important for students who wish to 
study abroad or simply improve their language 
skills at UCSD! LCTs meet every Thursday at 6pm 
either in the Great Hall or the Asante classrooms! 
Register here: http://tinyurl.com/LCTWinter2017 
Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
8pm
L-E-V DANCE COMPANY AT 
ARTPOWER - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
This performance of "MACHINAL" will be the first 
performance of 2017 in the Qualcomm Institute's 
Initiative for Digital Exploration of Arts and 
Sciences (IDEAS) series. The list of collaborators 
on the performance Will Detlefsen (director), Mary 
Glen Fredrick (actor), Grady Kestler (sound 
designer), Annie Le (designer), Steven Leffue 
(sound designer), Anna Robinson (designer), 
Brandon Rosen (lighting designer), Ph.D. student 
Kristen Tregar, Enrico Nassi (MFA actor), and 
Stephanie Del Rosso (MFA playwright). Contact: 
tstone@ucsd.edu 858-822-5307FRI1.20
MENTOR OR TUTOR 
UNDERSERVED YOUTH AND 
COMPLETE DEI REQUIREMENT - 
SAN DIEGO COUNTY
Do you want to take a rewarding course that will 
satisfy your DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) 
and college requirements? If so, take a PAL 
(Partners at Learning) course this winter: EDS 
130/139 (Elementary mentoring), EDS 136/139 
(Middle/High School tutoring), EDS 137/139 
(Arts Instruction). Make sure to ask your college 
advisor about how these courses may fulfill your 
college requirements. PAL aims to provide 
college role models to underserved P-12 
students throughout San Diego County. In turn, 
UC San Diego students may inspire local youth 
while engaging in issues of equity and access. 
Contact Emmeline Domingo at 
edomingo@ucsd.edu to ask how to enroll!SUN1.22
4pm
JOHN FONVILLE PORTRAIT 
CONCERT AND CELEBRATION - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Join us in celebrating John Fonville's more than 
30 years in UC San Diego's Department of Music. 
His former students from across the globe 
present a concert of his works and works 
dedicated to him, including a re-creation of the 
original choreography to Fonville's "Music for 
Sarah" by Austin based dancer Sarah Brumgart. 
Other special guests include Stephanie Aston, 
Lisa Cella, Anne La Berge, Reiko Manabe, 
Elizabeth McNutt, Jane Rigler, Christine 
Tavolacci. Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu
HAPPY MLK, JR. DAY
ARTPOWER PRESENTS
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
ACROSS
1 ‘’--- forgive those who ... ’’
5. Where babbling is a good thing
10. Pigswill
14. Cardamom or chickpea
15. It may be used for dangerous work
16. Tidy sum
17. Brand negatively
19. Forget to include
20. Powerful vehicle, scaled down?
22. Drained of color
23. ‘’Ring of Bright Water’’ creature
24. Hood of renown
27. Is impossible to pin down
31. Chronological brinks
32. Flower parts
33. Na Na lead-in
36. Old stereo inserts, scaled down?
39. Make a federal case of?
40. Prevention units?
41. Can of worms, perhaps
42. ‘’You don’t say!’’
43. Cartoon pooch
44. Place to make a scene
47. Foreign gold
48. Tribute with rifles, scaled down?
56. Architect Saarinen
57. They’re greatly reduced
58. Two twos
59. What one might do on the links?
60. They can be yours for the basking
61. ___-Ball (arcade game)
62. Confused between ports?
63. OtherwiseDOWN
1  Guy Fri.
2. Third son of the first man
3. Low dam
4. Way to get a word in
5. Brain’s counterpart
6. ‘’Portnoy’s Complaint’’ author Philip
7. Tony’s cousin
8. Flow like molasses
9. TV music vendor
10. Newscast feature
11. Word at the express checkout aisle
12. An oil source
13. First pope
18. Statistician’s middle
21. Accomplishes, in the past
24. Medical advice, often
25. (See other side)
26. A few quail
27. ‘’The Mysterious Island’’ author
28. At full gallop
29. Sped along
30. Classes
32. It may be ear-piercing
33. Uttered with contempt
34. Will’s beneficiary
35. Re:
37. Any group of nine
38. Infrangible
42. Pay no mind
43. ‘’I smell ---!’’
44. Procedural parts
45. Pinch sharply
46. Craggy home
47. Honshu port
49. Disco standard
50. Gold-plated
51. Les États-___
52. Heading on Santa’s list
53. Range of western Russia
54. Some bills in tills
55. Latin 101 verbFURNITURE
Inch Mattress Topper for Full Size Bed - 
Bought this last week in Stanford Studios, 
but the size doesn’t work for me--I have a 
smaller bed than a full size. Available imme -
diately for pickup on campus. Images and 
contact info on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 305157004 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Coffee Tables - Glass-top, gold-iron coffee 
table and matching end tables. Listing ID: 
306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Antique French Dining Set - Antique oak 
dining room table from France with leaves 
and table seats. Price includes all chairs 
and the leaves. Images and contact infor -
mation on Advertigo website. Listing ID: 
305156998 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. Perfect for 
tripods, light stand or whatever you need 
to ship. Professional travel case with wheels 
for easy transport. This is the only case to 
use for airline travel. It protects your valu -able equipment and is easy to handle. Made 
from ABS plastic, this case is just about 
indestructible. Travel storage case is four 
feet tall and twelve inches in diameter. It 
holds approximately six light stands. Listing 
ID: 306503235 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condi -
tion. They come with a pelican case and 
ballast. They all have bulbs and some light -
ing accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
PETS
Cavapoo Male, Oliver - $1200. Oliver is an 
astonishing male Cavapoo. He is the cream 
of the crop in San Diego. Oliver is up to date 
on his shots and vet checks and comes with 
a one-year health guarantee. Oliver is nine 
weeks, healthy and ready to go home today. 
619-786-7362 or http://www.puppyavenue.
com. Listing ID: 306914397 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Silver Bengal Kittens - $1150. Two gor -
geous silver-spotted kittens available. Born 
9/3/16. Should look similar to mom when 
full grown. Pics available. Ask me about 
our website. Listing ID: 306914370 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Tame Scarlet Macaw Adult - $850. Big, tame 
scarlet macaw for sale. DNA tested male. Will 
make a great pet or breeder. A little plucked 
around the chest area. Call (858)397-4419. 
Listing ID: 305984550 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
Level: 1234
SUDOKU
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 17, 2017 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego men’s basketball 
team capped off its four-game road trip 
with a disappointing loss on Saturday 
against Sonoma State University. Going 
into the matchup, UCSD was riding a 
seven-game win streak after earning a 
well-fought victory versus No.16 San 
Francisco State University on Friday. 
However, a snapped win streak and 
a first conference loss of the season 
does not dethrone the Tritons from 
first place on the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association standings. UCSD 
stands with a 14–3 overall record and 
9–1 in conference play. 
Game 1 v. San Francisco State
Friday night’ s matchup against San 
Francisco State was a pivotal one given 
the conference standings leading up to 
the game. The Gators came in with one 
conference loss (6–1) while the Tritons 
had yet to taste defeat in conference 
play (8–0). UCSD had no problem taking on the challenge and earned a 
67–55 victory, handing San Francisco 
State its first home loss of the season. 
Junior guard Anthony Ballestero 
topped all players with a career-high 
18 points, including five rebounds and 
a steal to add to his stat sheet. Twelve 
of his 18 points came from three-point 
land, hitting four of seven from long 
range. Ballestero helped to set the tone 
for the Tritons as they hit a total of 
seven three-pointers in the first half 
to add a bit of separation from the 
competition, leading 31–24 at the half. 
Per usual, senior guard Adam Klie 
had himself a solid night with 14 points 
to go along with eight rebounds (game-
high), five assists and two steals.
On the night, the Tritons shot 43.6 
percent (24–55) from the field and did 
an exceptional job of not allowing the Gators to get into any rhythm as they 
struggled to find their shot, only hitting 
31.6 percent (18–57).
While the Tritons earned the 
victory, they did turn the ball over 
a season-high 15 times throughout, 
which definitely will need some 
attention in the coming games. Taking 
care of the ball will only get that 
much more important as postseason        
looms closer. 
The fight and overall play of the 
team had UCSD head coach Eric Olen 
satisfied with what he saw on the night, 
telling the Athletics Department, “I 
thought we played very well on both 
ends of the floor tonight … W e shared 
the ball offensively and forced difficult 
shots on defense. ” 
Game 2 v. Sonoma State
UCSD’s win streak ended at seven games after Saturday night’s 
road defeat to Sonoma State, 48–54. 
Sonoma State inched closer to the 
top of the CCAA standings with an 
improved 7–2 conference record while 
UCSD maintains the top stop with a                 
9–1 record. 
Klie had himself yet another 
20-plus point scoring night (fourth of 
the season), finishing off with 22 points 
including five rebounds, three assists 
and a steal. Unfortunately, Klie and 
fellow teammates could not rely on 
sophomore center Chris Hansen after 
he was ruled out of the game due to 
back soreness. Hansen’ s presence on 
the boards could have certainly made a 
huge impact on the final result. 
Regardless, the Tritons had a 
bad shooting night as they only hit 
37.5 percent of their shots (18–48) and only made six of their 21 three-
point attempts. On the contrary, the 
Seawolves shot 45.9 percent (17–37) 
and 50 percent (6–12) from the three-
point land. 
The Tritons will look to get back 
to their winning ways when they 
return home and take on Cal State San 
Marcos on Thursday, Jan. 19. Cal State 
San Marcos has had a solid season 
so far, coming to the match with a 
7–3 conference record and currently 
on a five-game win streak. While the 
Cougars have all the momentum in 
their favor, the Tritons will need to 
show resiliency after coming off their 
first conference loss of the season. The 
game is set to tip off at 7:30 p.m. MEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
Senior staff writerUC San Diego 
Drops Final 
Game of 
Road Trip
Despite the loss, the team 
remains first in conference 
standings.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Daniel  hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduHeading into its weekend matches, 
the UC San Diego women’ s basketball 
team hadn’t lost a game since Nov. 29. 
An astounding seven-game win streak 
was on the line as the team looked to 
face San Francisco State and Sonoma 
State on the road this past weekend. But 
as the Tritons have shown numerous 
times in the past month and a half, they 
know how to get it done.
Game One:
In their Friday night bout against 
San Francisco State, the Tritons domi -
nated the paint early on. By penetrating 
and controlling the glass early, they 
converted four straight layups to take 
an 8–0 lead. This domination beneath 
the glass carried on for the rest of the 
quarter, as UCSD overpowered SF State 
to the tune of 14 points to nothing in 
the paint. This was all led by junior forward Dalayna Sampton, who scored 
the opening six points to set the tone 
of the game. 
But in the closing minutes of the 
first quarter, the Gators closed the gap 
to as little as two points, making it clear 
they weren’t afraid of a little adversity. 
Two points was as close as it was going 
to get for the Gators, however. After 
the Gators brought it back within two 
in the beginning of the second quar -
ter, a layup by senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod and a three by senior guard 
Beth Mounier put the the team up       
by seven. 
While the difference would remain 
within single digits for a majority of 
the game, the Gators were never able 
to make the defensive stops necessary 
to overcome the early Triton lead, as 
the Tritons came away with the 65–55 victory. Mounier starred in the win, 
scoring 19 points on 6–11 shooting 
overall, while Sampton continued her 
dominance down low with a team lead -
ing seven rebounds.
The Gators fell to an abysmal 2–13 
record overall and 0–8 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association.
Game Two:
The Tritons once again started out 
with an early lead: A Sampton jumper 
in the paint and a Mounier three put 
the team up 5–0 just a minute into the 
game. However, the Seawolves quickly 
closed the gap, tying the game within 
minutes and even taking the lead. A 
jumper by Sonoma State junior Jessica 
Mitz put the Seawolves up four, which 
was their largest lead of the quarter. 
This back and forth affair would be 
indicative of the remainder of the game, as the Seawolves looked to end 
the Tritons’ win streak at eight.
The second quarter was arguably 
the worst quarter for the Triton offense, 
as the team was only able to con -
vert four of their 13 shot attempts and 
allowed Sonoma State to outscore them 
18–13. After the Tritons took back the 
lead at the end of the first quarter, the 
Seawolves slowly gained momentum; 
the peak being another four point lead 
with 14 seconds left. But the Tritons 
had the last word heading into half -
time — another Mounier three cut the 
deficit to just one.
While the third quarter was a rela -
tively low scoring affair on both sides, 
the Tritons used this opportunity to 
take back the lead. By holding the 
Seawolves to just nine points and 30 
percent shooting, the Tritons were able to take back the lead for good. With a 
dominant second half, the Tritons won 
their ninth straight game 72–64.
“We showed our resilience tonight, ” 
UCSD head coach Heidi V anDerveer 
told the Athletics Department. “We 
struggled offensively but had Haley and 
Beth make big shots. ”
Mounier had another strong out -
ing, scoring 11 of her 22 total points 
in the fourth quarter off three three-
pointers and two free throws. Sampton 
once again led the team in rebounds, 
grabbing a total of eight by the end of 
the night.
With the Triton victory, Sonoma 
State fell to 8–7 overall and 4–5 in 
CCAA play, while the Tritons improved 
to 13–3 overall and 9–1 in the CCAA. 
The team will return home to face Cal 
State San Marcos on Jan. 19 at 5:30 p.m.
Tritons 
Improve 
Win Streak 
to Nine
UCSD defeats conference 
rivals San Francisco State 
University and Sonoma State 
to remain first in CCAA.
by Alex Wu // Associate Sports EditorUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
W. Basketball 
M. Basketball
M. Volleyball
Swim & Dive1/17
1/19
1/19
1/20
1/216 PM
5:30 PM
7:30 PM
7 PM
12 PMVS Hope International
VS Cal State San Marcos
VS Cal State San Marcos
VS UC Irvine
VS California Baptist
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS