VOLUME 51, ISSUE 24  MONDA Y , APRIL 23, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
AFSCME 
Calls for John Lewis to Boycott  
Commencement 
AFSCME Local 3299 also voted to strike 
after their demands for higher wages and 
reduced income inequality were not met.
Members of the union representing 
UC workers, the American 
Federation for State, County, and 
Municipal Employees Local 3299, 
overwhelmingly voted to authorize a university-wide strike on April 18 as part of AFSCME’s ongoing dispute 
with the UC administration over wage 
negotiations and widening inequality. The union is also calling on U.S. Rep. and civil rights icon John Lewis, who will be delivering the commencement 
address at UC San Diego’s graduation 
ceremony in June, and other UC commencement speakers to boycott their engagements with the university 
as a display of support for AFSCME. 
Among the union’s demands are 
a six percent wage increase across the 
board each year, prioritizing pension stability, setting the retirement age at 
60 years old, no increases to healthcare 
costs, and no collaboration by the administration with U.S. Immigration, Customs, and Enforcement. 
According to AFSCME 
Communications Director John de los Angeles, while it has been authorized, 
the strike will only actually take place if 
absolutely necessary.
“We’ve been negotiating for over 
a year with the UC [system], ” de los Angeles told the UCSD Guardian. 
“We’ve exhausted the bargaining and 
mediation process. ”
De los Angeles also explained that 
a report released by AFSCME found 
widening income, race, and gender 
inequality among UC workers. The report, which was published earlier this month, indicates that between 2005 and 2015, the top 10 percent 
of UC wage earners saw their shares 
of the total payroll cost grow from 22 percent to 31 percent while the share of the bottom 50 percent of wage 
earners decreased from 24 percent to 
22 percent. 
“Whites and Asian/Pacific 
Islander workers are more often hired into higher-paying titles, while 
Blacks, Latinos, and Latinas are more 
often hired into lower-paying jobs, ” AFSCME stated, concluding that racial and gender hierarchies have formed among employees.
The UC administration has also 
not provided any adequate proposals on recruitment, retention, and training to resolve these inequalities, de los 
Angeles said.  
While student employees are not 
included in AFSCME, student workers 
are legally allowed to join the strike and picket lines in support of AFSCME’s 
actions, which de los Angeles noted UCSD 
BY Lauren Holt
 news editor
New Law Fighting Sex Trafficking May Affect Some UCSD Students
Molly Rankin, lead singer of pop band Alvvays, strums and sings with conviction. Photo by Esra Elhendy // UCSD Guardian  
See AFSCME,  page 3The UC San Diego School of Medicine 
chapter of White Coats for Black Lives, a national organization to address racial 
bias in the practice of medicine and the danger of racism to the health of people of color, staged a “die-in” protest outside Geisel Library on April 17 as part of a nationwide effort against police brutality. 
Approximately 30 medical students donned their lab 
coats and lay on the ground in front of the Silent Tree, pretending to be dead. 
Many of the students held signs with phrases like 
“injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, ” “hands up don’t shoot, ” and “Racism is a public health crisis. It must end now” that called attention to issues facing the black community, particularly police 
brutality. 
After lying on the ground for at least 15 minutes, 
several students stood up to speak. Four of the 
demonstrators read a biography of Stephon Clark, an 
unarmed black man gunned down in his grandmother’s 
backyard by the deputies in the Sacramento Police Department, also reading the police and autopsy reports detailing the events leading up to the shooting. 
“Of the 987 individuals shot and killed by the 
police in 2017, 23 percent were black despite only 13 percent of the U.S. population being black. In 2017, black people were nearly three times more likely than white people to be shot and killed by the police, ” one of the demonstrators stated, reading statistics highlighting the disproportionate jailing and shooting 
of black Americans compared to other racial groups.  
Medical student Imani Law also gave a short 
speech, stating “the biggest takeaway from today is 
that it’s not just enough to be non-racist, but anti-racist 
as well. ”
The students wrapped up the demonstration by 
gathering on the steps outside Geisel, holding up their 
signs. 
White Coats for Black Lives began in 2014 when 
medical students across the country felt inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement to stage independent die-ins at their medical schools. These individual 
groups then came together to stage a national die-in 
on Dec. 10, 2014 and formed White Coats for Black Lives on Martin Luther King Jr. Day in 2015. 
Led by the UC Davis chapter, the WC4BL 
demonstration was a coordinated effort by the different chapters to address Clark’s shooting. 
“Join us as we come together to: stand in solidarity 
with victims of police violence, demand accountability from those in power, urge healthcare institutions to 
provide greater trauma-informed care to afflicted 
communities, ” the White Coats for Black Lives Facebook page stated.    By  lauren  Holt   News EditorCAMPUS
White Coats for Black Lives Stages “Die-In” DemonstrationPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
FIGURE SKATING’S 
KEEPING IT ICY
Ice rinks are no match for our 
comrades of the cold. The UC 
San Diego Figure Skating team 
used its variety in skillsets and 
camaraderie among members 
to qualify and compete at the 
U.S. Intercollegiate Champion-
ships.
EMOTIONAL SUPPORT  DOGS
DEMOCRATIC  CONVENTIONAbusing the system
WE  SET  A  WRITER  LOOSEOPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  PAGE  7
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The state of California 
devotes 50 percent of its 
budget to education but 
only about 12 percent of 
that is designated for higher 
education. This percentage 
has been steadily decreasing 
throughout the past three 
decades, which has led 
to UC schools having to 
seek private funding and 
increase tuition in order to 
compensate.”Features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
H 67 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 53
PHOTOS BY UCSD FIGURE SKATING TEAM
TUESDAY
H 65 L 54
THURSDAY
H 64 L 54
BAC IMPLANT...............2
POLICE ABOLITION......4
SPRING SDAFF ...........10
T. NAZARENO Q&A.....11
W. WATER POLO........16UC SYSTEM
Adriana Barrios
Transfer Guarantee
 PAGE 4On April 11, President Donald 
Trump signed the “Fight Online Sex 
Trafficking Act / Stop Enabling Sex 
Trafficking Act” bill into law. FOSTA 
was written with just that intention, 
to combat the forcible sale of people for sex over the internet. It was passed 
in the Senate with only two “no” votes 
and 97 “yes” votes. As some critics of the bill have illustrated, however, the bill could do more harm than good.
FOSTA makes online platformers 
liable for the content posted on their sites by third parties. The bill autho-
rizes civil and criminal lawsuits to be 
brought against those platforms. In essence, the law criminalizes any on-
line content that could potentially en-able sex tra fficking, while making the 
websites on which they are published responsible. 
This has already impacted the pop-
ular website Craigslist, which com-pletely removed its personal ads sec-tion in response to the bill’s passing. 
Craigslist’s statement on the re -
moval says that the bill subjects “web-sites to criminal and civil liability when third parties (users) misuse on-
line personals unlawfully. Any tool or 
service can be misused. We can’t take such risk without jeopardizing all our other services, so we are regretfully taking Craigslist personals o ffline. ”
Jake Hyde, co-president of the Sex Geekdom club at UC San Diego, a sex-positive group that holds weekly discussions, told the UCSD Guardian that this would severely impact con-sensual sex workers who use online 
sites for their business.
Hyde says that the bill will push 
consensual sex work o ff the internet, 
making it much more dangerous. 
“They’re being pushed back into 
the arms of pimps, and they’re hav -
ing to work the streets again, ” Hyde 
stated. “Y ou could vet clients over the 
internet [and] you could talk to other 
sex workers and ask if a client was trustworthy without having to meet clients in person which is huge. ”Critics are concerned the bill will limit free speech and drive sex workers to unsafe practices. 
BY Tyler  Faurot
 editorial Assistant
See FOSTA,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Don’t be a fool and litter, be cool and throw it in the trash - for the raccoons, our critters.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarStudents at UC San Diego have 
created a tiny biosensor that can 
wirelessly monitor the blood alcohol 
levels of its user. The project’s goal is to develop an unobtrusive way 
to continuously monitor alcohol and 
drug levels of patients in substance abuse treatment programs. 
The biosensor chip is injected 
into the user’s skin and is powered wirelessly by an external smartwatch 
or patch. Preliminary studies have 
demonstrated that the lifetime of the device is greater than 30 days, 
although research is still ongoing. 
UCSD electrical engineering 
professor Drew Hall who served as the faculty advisor for the project, 
explains that the sensor works by monitoring the levels of hydrogen 
peroxide present in the body.
“The chip works similarly to a 
glucometer, ” Hall described. “ A chemical reaction takes place on the 
surface of the sensor that generates a byproduct (hydrogen peroxide in 
both cases) that is detected by the 
sensor. Here, we use alcohol oxidase which catalyzes alcohol and also 
produces hydrogen peroxide. ”
Recent advancements in 
continuous glucose monitor technology have resulted in lifespans 
of over two years. 
“Since our BioMote is functionally 
equivalent, I’m optimistic that we will be able to improve the lifetime dramatically over time, ” Hall told the 
UCSD Guardian.
Pending additional research, 
the team currently plans to send the information collected by the sensor to the user’s smartphone, 
which can then be sent to healthcare professionals. The research is being 
conducted in collaboration with 
CARI Therapeutics, a biotechnology startup incubating at Qualcomm 
Institute that specializes in the 
detection, monitoring, and treatment of drug and alcohol misuse. 
Along with CARI Therapeutics, 
the team is now applying for a second-phase testing grant from the 
National Science Foundation to test 
the device in animals next year. 
Hall explains that this technology 
can also be used to monitor levels of other substances in the blood. 
“By changing the surface 
chemistry, we can change what biomolecule we are observing, ” Hall wrote in an email to the Guardian. “For example, to monitor glucose, 
one immobilizes glucose oxidase, 
an enzyme that catalyzes glucose and generates a hydrogen peroxide 
by-product. We have a grant from 
the National Institutes of Health to develop assays for opioids — 
morphine, fentanyl, etc. — and other 
drugs of abuse. ” 
As the research is still in progress, 
the team has yet to discover all of the failure mechanisms of the technology. Along with in-vitro testing, the team 
hopes to proceed to animal testing 
and small-scale human trials. In the meantime, they have also filed a 
patent for the technology. 
UC San Diego Graduate Students Create Small Implant to Measure Blood Alcohol Content Levels
Testing shows that the device will last longer than a month and can be used to send the user’s BAC to healthcare professionals.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
BY Promita Nandy
Senior Staff Writer
Promita  Nandy  pnandy@ucsd.edu
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Rep. John Lewis Has Yet to Respond to the Request to Cancel His Appearance
▶ AFSCME, from page 1
is important considering that many 
union members do not have the time to attend their demonstrations.
“Workers, particularly our workers, 
work two jobs and have to pick up their kids, ” de los Angeles stated. “It’s hard for us to ask our workers to come 
and do a sit-in or picket line when they 
have that second job. ”
A.S. Senate voted to approve 
a pledge in support of the strike at its Wednesday night meeting and committed to sending a letter to UC President Janet Napolitano, as well as attending and honoring AFSCME’s 
events.
“We are rising together in full 
support and solidarity with the 
workers who make the University of 
run everyday, ” the statement from A.S. 
Senate reads. “Right now over 25,000 UC service and patient care workers, members of AFSCME Local 3299, are fighting for a fair contract that provides them with dignity and respect of their families, patients, and students. ”
No date has been set for the strike, 
but the university will be provided with a 10-day notice if a strike is confirmed. Representative Lewis has yet to respond to AFSCME’s call to 
boycott.  
  
Lauren  Holt   lcholt@ucsd.eduUCSD’s CARE Director Wahlig Is Concerned That the Bill Doesn’t Help Victims
▶ FOSTA, from page 1
“When you invalidate consensual 
sex work, you begin to place de fini-
tions on what consent truly is, ” Hyde added. “Sex tra fficking is horrible, 
we should be trying to end that and 
protect people, but we should also let people do what they want with their 
bodies if they’re doing it in a healthy 
way. ” 
Those who oppose the bill argue 
that it con flates stopping sex traf-
ficking with stopping consensual 
sex work. But critics say that it ac-complishes neither, and it ultimately makes sex tra ffickers harder to catch.  
Kimberly Mehlman-Orozco, an 
expert witness on human tra ffick-
ing, told The Washington Post that 
websites were o ften cooperative with 
police investigations in turning over traffickers.
 “What we should have done was 
facilitated the cooperation” she told The Washington Post. “ All we’ve done 
is gotten rid of one virtual place where this can happen. But there are thou -
sands of others out there waiting. ”
The Guardian reached out to 
CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center at UCSD. CARE Director Nancy Wahlig told the Guardian the bill looks “complicated. ”
“I don’t know what the outcome 
may be, but when I look at sex tra ffick-
ing, I really look at what the services are that we’re providing for victims, and how to get people get out safely 
from that, ” Wahlig told the Guardian. 
“This bill doesn’t address that. ”
Beyond just impacting margin-
alized sex workers and potentially making it harder to help victims of trafficking, the bill also has serious 
implications for freedoms of expres-sion online.
Prior to the passage of the bill, 
the American Civil Liberties Union had sent a letter to Congress advising against FOSTA-SESTA. In it, it stated 
that the bill “is a serious, yet unsuc-
cessful, attempt to stop the use of the Internet for sex tra fficking without 
hindering online freedom of expres-sion and artistic innovation. ” 
“Reddit took down an amateur 
beer-trading subreddit because they were like, ‘It’s alcohol so it’s not regu-lated, we could get in trouble, ’” Hyde 
said. “If you’re not concerned about 
sex workers, that’s the type of censor -ship we’re talking about. The people 
on those subreddits were just using it to trade recipes and ideas for home-
brewing and they were shut down be -
cause Reddit doesn’t want to get sued. ”
As the Electronic Frontier Foun-
dation notes, “Facing the threat of ex-treme criminal and civil penalties … 
platforms would have to take extreme measures to remove a wide range of postings, especially those related to sex. ”
“Websites are going to be over-
protective of the content that’s used, ” Hyde said. “Basically, your freedom of 
speech is being put into the hands of 
these huge corporations. ”
Hyde says that he plans on creating 
a call to action and raising awareness 
with a petition for the repeal of FOS-
TA-SESTA. He is currently gathering signatures.
“Sex [Geekdom] is a sex-positive 
organization, ” he said. “We want to be 
more than just an echo chamber — we 
want to cause e ffect. ”
Tyler  Faurot    tfaurot@ucsd.edu
follow  us  
on
 twitter
@  UCSD
   GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Nearly 30 percent of the undergraduate 
population within the UC system is composed 
of transfer students, most coming from the 
statewide community college system. Community college often offers the flexibility in 
scheduling and finances that allows underserved 
communities to pursue higher education. They have become especially important in recent 
years, as tuition costs rise and college admissions 
are determined by increasingly arbitrary factors. On April 11th, UC President Janet Napolitano 
signed a memorandum with the California 
Community Colleges to create UC pathways 
that will guarantee enrollment to increase and 
improve the transfer process for the UC system. This memorandum is a consequence of the 
struggle between the UC system and the state, 
with the latter continuously failing its own institutions of higher education by dismissing 
and underfunding them. 
 For some UC campuses, transfer students 
have been guaranteed admission for years if they met certain requirements through a program 
called Transfer Admissions Guarantee. Although TAG is meant to facilitate transfer enrollment, 
it excludes the most competitive schools in 
the system: UC Berkeley, UCLA, and our own campus. The application process evaluates GPA 
and coursework under strict guidelines and 
regulations.  In contrast, the memorandum includes all nine campuses and is supposed to increase the number of ways in which prospective 
transfer students can qualify as prepared for 
the system. It does not erase TAG, but works in conjunction with it in order to maximize the number of students that attend four-year 
universities. This expanded collaboration 
between UC and CCC showcases the lengths to which higher education institutions have to 
collaborate in order to work around steadily 
decreasing support from the state.
The state of California devotes 50 percent of 
its budget to education but only about 12 percent 
of that is designated for higher education. 
This percentage has been steadily decreasing 
throughout the past three decades, which has 
led to UC schools having to seek private funding and increase tuition in order to compensate. 
The tuition increases have disproportionately 
excluded poor people of color, making the state complicit in the exclusion of minorities in academic spaces. Pipelining students through the 
community college system in order to even out 
both private and public budgets is a disservice to them and is a factor in the increasing disparity between California’s social make-up and the 
population that actually attends its universities.
There is nothing wrong with attending 
community college, and there are other reasons to attend aside from not being able to afford UC 
tuition. That being said, the en masse enrollment into community college and then transfer into 
the UC systems is not fair to the students of 
California. Transfer students often perform at the same level as their counterparts or better, 
which means that the students being forced 
into the periphery of higher education clearly 
deserve to attend the schools they transfer into. 
Students shouldn’t be forced to go through bureaucratic hoops for their education and 
institutions shouldn’t be forced to seek patronage 
from private groups and organizations in order to maintain their schools. The UC system is 
one of the best public university systems in the 
country, but if underfunding continues they will be public only in name. The UC should not have 
to resort to raising tuition and pursuing private 
investors because California refuses to fund their operations.
Public education is becoming increasingly 
privatized, and the UC system is no exception. That being said, part of the reason we see them 
rely so heavily on private funds and organizations 
has to do with the way that California has underfunded the public higher education system. It is high time the state starts prioritizing higher 
education as the foundation of the professional 
labor force and the future of its own economy. Transfer Admission Guarantee Reflects Funding Conflicts Between the UC 
System and the StateA lot of people with disabilities rely on their 
pets for support. However, the support they require 
can be very di fferent. To accommodate those 
differences, the law de fines two types of therapeutic 
animals for personal assistance: service dogs and emotional support animals. Service dogs have to 
complete minimum of 120 hours of costly training 
that proves they behave well in public and ful fill 
a speci fic medical purpose, whereas ESAs are not 
forced to receive training. Because of their di fferent 
training and role, emotional support animals and service dogs have di fferent rights — ESAs are 
protected only for the purposes of housing and air travel while service dogs also have public access. Unfortunately, this system is frequently abused: people fake their disabilities to get ESAs, or they illegally bring ESAs to public places. As a result, the general public and legitimate owners of service 
animals are su ffering the consequences.
 In order to qualify for an ESA, a person needs 
to receive a letter from a licensed professional 
outlining the owner’s disability and the therapeutic purpose of the animal. However, there is a loophole in the law: one does not have to visit a licensed psychologist or psychiatrist in person to get the letter. On top of that, many online businesses recruit a number of licensed mental health professionals who issue ESA letters without even seeing a patient in person. For every letter a patient pays a fee, around $120, which means that the company’s licensed psychologists have all the 
incentives to approve as many requests as possible. 
The problem is exacerbated by the fact that those professionals will not be liable if an untrained ESA goes to someone who does not need it since providing the accurate information is legally the sole responsibility of a client. The ease in playing 
the system has led to an abundance of ESAs — a problem that is causing the public a great deal of trouble. 
Many people are actually breaking the law by 
bringing their ESA to public places. By pretending that they have a service dog rather than an ESA, 
they assert the right to have bring the animals 
into nearly any public place. There are numerous 
problems with permitting this though. First and foremost, untrained animals, ESAs or otherwise, in public places endanger and disturb people. They 
might jump on people, steal food in a restaurant, or break property. In addition, untrained dogs are
See ESA, page 5OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The sordid history of policing 
in the UC system has yielded 
contrasting perspectives: The 
administrations of the respective campuses see police as a tool to subdue often wild student populations, whereas many students 
see the police as a militarized force whose looming presence seems out of place. Debates around policing, 
especially following instances of police brutality, continue to redefine the role of campus police. However, 
this semifluid view of police and their place on campus obfuscates the 
essential question of whether police 
ought to exist on university campuses 
at all. Even if some regulatory force 
has a place in higher education, there 
are alternatives to a body whose past 
is riddled with abuse. 
Campus police set roots in the 
UC system in 1947 when the Regents 
first approved their creation. Though 
their jurisdiction extends to the properties owned and operated by the 
Regents, the UC Police Department 
gains power from the same statute in the California penal code, section 
830.2b, that gives “peace officers” 
statewide authority. Since then, 
UCPD has made a name for itself. It 
has a history of police brutality, often 
levied disproportionately against protestors and minority students. 
The Free Speech Movement of the 1960s immediately comes to mind 
in the context of police violence. In 
a state-sponsored abuse of power, police engaged in aggressive counter-
protest efforts, which led to bruises, 
broken bones, and the largest mass arrest in the country at that point. This contentious relationship 
has changed very little since then. Over the past few years, protesters 
in Berkeley’s Occupy Wall Street demonstrations and Antifa protests, 
for example, were pepper-sprayed, 
shot with non-lethal bullets, and battered. 
UCPD’s history of violence 
speaks to the fundamental issue of policing on university campuses. Intuitively, there is no place in 
higher education for an armed 
force. Students living and learning at a university constitute neither a threat to the general welfare that demands constant surveillance, nor 
a privileged class more deserving 
of social services than any other group. Regardless of a person’s view 
of campus police as a whole, but 
especially given their reputation for excessive force, the rationale 
that argues a heavy police presence 
benefits students falls short 
somewhere. 
So much of history has actually 
seen the two groups pitted against each other because campus police 
have always served to quiet a disquieted population. Students do 
not enter academia in order to initiate 
protests, but they do often fall into 
very progressive and very outspoken 
categories. Campus administrations 
station police at every event and protest, not because their presence 
fills the student body with some homely sense of security, but because 
if students get too rowdy, there is a 
way to shut them down. The notion that police limit property damage 
and violence during demonstrations 
falls short of the fact that conflicts tend to escalate when police take a more hands-on approach. 
As it stands now, campus police 
do more harm than good, but there is an alternative to officers roaming the 
campus. Areas across the country, 
including Los Angeles and New Y ork City, have found that shifting 
to community-based policing curbs 
crime in their most violent areas. 
The UC system currently employs 
Community Service Officers to 
escort students at night and provide 
ride services. Rather than funding 
the nearly two dozen police staff 
on this campus, UC San Diego ought to encourage the UC police to 
invest in student directly. By training 
CSOs and student volunteers 
who have already integrated into the campus, UCSD can staff a 
professional community watch group 
while limiting the involvement of a militarized body. Police are still 
necessary to charge offenders with 
crimes, but this approach recognizes that the police are not the be-all and end-all of addressing issues within a community.
Regulations regarding university 
campuses are a contentious issue, one that leaders of Associated 
Students are trying to address. But 
the last 50 years has not seen a need for police on UC campuses. 
Rather, students and activists have 
continuously called for limits and regulation. Moving forward, the 
UC system should concentrate on 
making policy surrounding policing student-centered rather than police-centered. Community policing 
allows students to meet each other 
at their own level and rejects a state-approved, violent body.      
“The tuition increases 
have disproportionately 
excluded poor people of 
color, making the state 
complicit in the exclu-
sion of minorities in 
academic spaces.”By Adriana Barrios // Editorial AssistantCHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON 
// OPINION EDITORA History of  Violence Necessitates Campus Police Abolition
 Supporting
Emotional 
Support 
Animals
by: Revekka
Gershovich Cheating the system to get an emotional 
support animal only makes the process 
more difficult for those who need them.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
▶ ESA, from page 4
health and safety hazards since their waste might 
contaminate food and other wares. An ESA ’s 
presence in public places also puts service dogs 
in danger. Many Service Dogs owners have 
complained that ESAs attacked their service dogs, 
and some even say that their service dogs could not 
serve them in public since then. 
The fallout from so many illegitimate claims 
for ESA protections is eroding the rights of those ESA owners who actually have a history of mental 
disability. One by one, landlords and air carriers, such as Delta and Alaska Airlines, are tightening 
their regulations, asking for additional proof. The 
process for proving the need for a service animal 
is becoming especially convoluted and draining, especially for those who find it hard to talk about 
their disorders outside of their mental professional office. However, such changes are understandable 
— there are many problems associated with transporting a zoo on every domestic flight. But 
the solution is not to restrict accessibility of service dogs for people who actually need them. 
In brief, the system protecting the rights of the 
therapeutic dogs had crumbled under numerous 
abuses. Even though it will take a long time to 
change the laws regarding the animals, something 
can be done now. It is a responsibility of every 
student not to break the law by getting an ESA letter 
without having a disability or by bringing their dog 
in a public place. It is also our responsibility, as people who might make decisions on whether to let a dog into a public place or not, to stay educated on which types of dogs are entitled to which accommodations. It is also always important to remember that even though dogs may be of a minor consequence to us, they might be a matter of life 
and death to others. 
REvekka Gershovich  Rgershov@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
On a Sunday afternoon, when most students are getting started 
on last-minute homework assignments or relaxing after a busy week, Astrea Villarroel-Sanchez and her friend Julianna 
DeContreaus are skating laps around an ice rink, punctuating their strokes with jumps and spins. Their blades make a scraping, sharp sound as they cut through the ice fluidly, carving edges in the ice as they go. They skate with their arms as much as their legs, holding them aloft like dancers and propelling their bodies forward.
They both wear vests with “UCSD Figure Skating” embroidered on 
them. As part of the team, Villarroel-Sanchez and DeContreaus need to prep for the upcoming U.S. Intercollegiate Championships in figure skating. The two skaters practice their edges leading into their jumps, rapidly spinning at center ice with their arms above their head, and attempt jump combinations. They fall every once in a while, but are always right back up on their feet and launching themselves into another jump in no time — they have to forget what happened as soon as it does. At the end of the session, DeContreaus dons an orange sash to let the other practicing skaters know she’s about to run her program and then weaves around the ice to Latin music. 
All of this was part of preparation that Villarroel-Sanchez, DeContreaus, 
and the rest of UC San Diego Figure Skating had been engaging in all season long, which culminated in a trip to Denver for nationals. After placing third in the Pacific region qualifying competition, UCSD Figure Skating was set to compete with figure skating teams from the West Coast, East Coast, and Midwest. It’s a feat they haven’t accomplished since President Rachel Miller, now senior nanoengineering major from Earl Warren College, first joined the team.
“We were a team of six that year, and this year we had 10. It’s an 
incredible experience, ” Miller said. “I’ve been skating for 17 years, and I’ve never competed in an arena that large. Figure skating is an individual sport, so being part of a team and representing your school is really special. ”
For many of its talented skaters, UCSD Figure Skating is an opportunity 
for its members to continue doing what they love, even after they’ve finished competing on the high school circuit. Skating in college gives them an opportunity to keep up with an activity that has always been important to them in addition to their academics.
Villarroel-Sanchez, a sophomore cognitive and behavioral neuroscience 
major from John Muir College, is one example. Formerly an early-morning skater, she has learned how to adapt her practice schedule to her academic commitments. She skates for an hour to an hour-and-a-half, five to six days a week.
“I was not expecting to continue skating in college, but when I saw 
this team existed, it reinvigorated my passion for skating all over again, ” Villarroel-Sanchez said. “Usually when you graduate high school, you stop skating. I really enjoy skating, and this team has given me an opportunity to keep doing that and to represent a university. ”
Another member, freshman Georgia James, an undeclared physical 
science major from Sixth College, started skating at the age of four at her local rink in Riverside and spent her fifteen years skating moving up to the highest level. For her, the time commitment was always worth it, but she never thought she would be able to continue skating in college. UCSD Figure Skating has given her an opportunity to compete without being at the national or Olympic level. She values the emphasis UCSD Figure Skating puts on encouraging skaters of all backgrounds and skating levels to join the team.
“What’s cool about UCSD Figure Skating is that it’s not just people like 
me, who have been skating their whole lives. We also have members on the team who only started skating in college. One of our other skaters just started skating in college and he can already do an axel, ” James said. “ A lot of teams on the east coast have coaches that are paid by the school, and we don’t have that, so we often help and support each other. I think that’s the reason we ended up doing so well. We’re now one of the top ten teams in the nation. ”
Miller, Villarroel-Sanchez, and James all express how strong the 
camaraderie between the skaters on the team is, particularly because the team travels to so many different competitions together. As Miller and James talk and laugh together, it’s clear how close they are and how well they know each other.
“We’re all super close. There are some of us who have been skating 
together for four years, ” Miller said. “We really help each other out personally, academically, and in skating. ”
“My individual event was a really big milestone for me. I have struggled 
a lot in figure skating because I’m not that cookie-cutter figure skater. I lived a normal life, ate a cupcake once in a while, and didn’t skate six hours a day, six days a week, ” James said. “I often struggled with never attaining the performance level that I wanted for myself. But this competition was a really big deal, because I was able to overcome these mental roadblocks. I don’t think I’ve ever skated so well. And that was largely because of the attitude on our team. ”
Nationals was a culmination of the team’s months of hard work, which 
made it an emotional experience for some. For James, who has always struggled to find confidence in herself and her performance out on the ice, competing with UCSD Figure Skating at such an important event gave her a new outlook on what she as a skater is capable of and reminded her not to compare herself to others.
James, an avid musical theater fan and theatrical performer herself, 
chose a piece of music from “The Lion King” musical for her short program after seeing the musical on Broadway with her mother. Her face lights up as she describes her love of “How to Train Y our Dragon, ” which led to her to choose the compilation of music from the sequel for her program.
“There’s a part in my program where I hold the long spiral, and I 
actually started to cry in the middle of my program. For me, it’s a really emotional piece of music because I skated to it when I was younger. I was in this big arena the first time, and I finally [came to] appreciate these fifteen years that I’ve spent skating. I never thought this was going to happen to me. So, I got off [the] ice, and everyone was crying. ”
Miller, who funded all of her own skating endeavors in junior high 
school and high school purely because she loved to skate, had few chances to compete before joining UCSD Figure Skating. The way all the skaters 
The UC San Diego 
Figure Skating team used its 
variety in skillsets 
and camaraderie 
among members 
to qualify and compete at the U.S. Intercollegiate 
Championships.
By Charlotte 
Armstrong // 
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD FIGURE SKATING TEAM
SeeFIGURE SKATING , page 7from triple
 Flips  to  Toe  Loops:
UCSD  FIGURE  
Skating's Journey  
to  NationalsFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Behind the Scenes a t the 
Democra tic St a te Convention
As our own students made their campus rounds earlier 
this month shaking hands, kissing babies, and flirting with 
voters, statewide candidates were doing the same at the Democratic State Party Convention. The weekend event in February was the Democratic Party’s biggest in California. Ideas were pitched, candidates were endorsed, and reforms took root. The official platform of the party and its affiliates was decided on for the next two years. Incredibly enough, it all took place in our own backyard at the San Diego convention center. 
With more messages in his inbox than a professor after 
finals week, the party communications director finally responded to the UCSD Guardian: We made it in. Press badge holstered and UC San Diego socks riding high, I spoke with candidates, reporters, volunteers, and even kids to get the full picture. I wanted to see what really goes on behind the scenes, not only with the politicians, but with everyone in attendance. Everyone had something to say. The convention was filled with passionate voices and big ideas. Put simply, it was one for our textbooks.
The convention floor was lined with campaign stands, 
organization pop-ups, and activist tables. It seemed more like a county fair than a political gathering. Zooming around like Nascar drivers, delegates and visitors jostled for position, sporting their political brands and logos from head to toe. Perhaps the most popular attraction was the Planned Parenthood caravan. Pink condoms dotted their tables and neighboring booths championed their causes. Elizabeth Wells, volunteer coordinator and creative organizer for the Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California, highlighted the cross pollination of activism. “We’re trying to address the various healthcare inequities that manifest in our society. We are here as a vehicle for hearing different voices and different intersections of voices. We are here to stand with our coalition partner, ” she said. 
One of those coalition partners was Terra Lopez, founder 
of the “This Is What It Feels Like” project. This pop up mimics what it sounds like to be catcalled as a woman and what emotions it evokes. Miss Lopez spoke about what inspired her to start up the exhibit. “I’ve seen my mother get shot. I’ve seen my mother get her legs broken and get beat by men. As a child, I felt very powerless. Now as an adult, I’m doing my best in the hopes that we can educate men to change these behaviors and know that it’s not acceptable so more women and children don’t have to endure that. ” 
Believing it holds the moral high ground and seizing a 
strategy to utilize in the coming elections, the party adorns itself with social issues like these. The louder it shouts them and the more hype it creates, the more change is brought, and the more votes are caught. The Party continued to preach these issues, celebrate its ever growing “family, ” and champion its diversity throughout the convention. Like Joseph and his Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, the Democratic Party was proud to sing of its many colors. 
They start them young too. Eleven-year-old David Ksido 
spoke of his unionist activism better than most humanities students. “I am out here, ” said David, “because I think that we need to get collective bargaining for childcare providers in the state of California. ” Passionate about his beliefs and eager to get them out, David was the poster child for the convention floor.
Moving off the convention floor and into the caucus 
rooms, members of each organization met to discuss the problems they face and how to resolve it. For instance, the education caucus outlined on their minute sheet how “half of state budget is for kids and education, yet we are 39th in per pupil spending. ” Fan favorite Congressman Ro Khanna spoke about foreign policy and the raging civil war in Y emen. Even the Technology caucus members tweeted out support for the California Consumer Privacy Act. (Looking at you, Suckerberg.) 
Each caucus was meeting to cover these extensive issues, 
and, just as importantly, to be swooned by the incoming politicians. Each candidate made their rounds in a game of ultimate speed dating, with five minutes to speak before running down the hall to the next caucus. Each entrance was like a royal welcome, or at least designed to be. Shipped-in supporters from all over the state would flood the room with their teams’ colors and imagery just before their candidates’ arrivals. When the time came, all hell broke loose. It was like a scene out of “The Wolf of W all Street. ” Chest pounding, cheers vaulted in the air, people jumping up and down like animals. The drug here was politics, with heavy addictions to their candidates. 
Based off the vibes at the convention, Gavin Newsom 
was clearly leading the governor pack. He told me about his dad’s photo with Robert Kennedy: framed inspiration that would later spur his entrance into the political jungle. Like Kennedy, Newsom was met with loud applause at each caucus he entered, and not just from his shipped-in groupies either. His branding team kept the pace. Aligning himself with “working Californians” on his flyers and in his speeches allows him to capture a crucial base — one the Democrats lost in a national election. This branding also serves as an avenue to welcome Main Street business owners, union groups, and everyday customers under the same label. Newsom’s game was keeping his own party alive before people left for a better one. 
Indeed, that’s exactly what former state treasurer John 
Chiang looked to cause. A fighter with something to prove, John was assertive and ardent at every caucus he attended. From moving taxes online to organizing the first international green bond summit, John credited himself for giving California the updates it needed. Caucus to caucus, this was his pitch. Caucus to caucus, state candidates looking for endorsements weaved in and out, trying to make their faces known. It reminded me of high school elections when young campaigners interrupt class to throw candy at you and ask for your vote. Unfortunately, there was no candy at these events. 
Fortunately, they had margaritas instead. At the end 
of the first night is when the famous caucus parties take place. Drinking together, delegates spoke of their excitement and interest in being at the convention. They discussed competing motions and networked better than a business fraternity all while doing the salsa. To them, the event was more intoxicating than the drinks in hand.
 The next day, keynote speakers headlined the convention. 
Senators Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein were icons on the stage. Representative Maxine W aters preached of impeaching President Trump and “reclaiming her time, ” and the Democratic Party’s time, in national politics. Conan Nolan, NBC news correspondent and San Diego lover, offered his thoughts to me amidst rolling cameras and buzzing reporters.  
“The biggest political challenge for the candidates, ” said 
Nolan, “is to articulate a vision that distinguishes you from the problems in W ashington and from a very unpopular administration, while at the same time saying I’m not just a representative of the resistance, I do care about more mundane issues that a governor, or a mayor, or a legislator has to deal with. ” 
A few blocks away, and over spaghetti, political strategist 
Richard Greene (nicknamed the Civics Dean) told me about tactics to engage single-issue voters. He spoke of his 279 For Change website that focuses on signing up voters on these issues. Weeks later, the March for Our Lives rallies further emphasized his point as the Democratic Party organized and activated its national network on the single issue of gun reform. The question now is: Will the momentum hold? And will single-issue voter registration be the new third party platform, as Greene wishes?
Returning to the convention halls, a sea of delegates 
formed around the voting stations on the final night. Candidates chased selfies, lunged for friendly hugs, and made last-minute pitches with as many voters that would listen. The halls rumbled as votes were cast. In an upset, darling Democrat Dianne Feinstein, the longest current-serving female U.S. Senator, did not receive a rose from her party. In fact, the U.S. senator, governor, lieutenant governor, attorney general, and Board of Equalization positions all failed to garner a 60 percent vote majority by delegates in order to secure their party’s endorsements. The candidates all now run on behalf of their party, without any endorsement from it. 
In dramatic fashion, these results proved to be a 
referendum on the Democratic Party. Being anti-Trump wasn’t enough for the challengers. The seeds of Bernie Sanders’ progressivism had been well-planted and were rooted throughout the caucus. While old guard Democrats like Feinstein and W aters spoke of reclaiming their time, the delegates and activists there championed a new era. California’s Democratic Party showed a new center being pulled further left. To those in attendance, progressivism was the new sexy. And the losing candidates just weren’t sexy enough.
Filled with unexpected endings, unexpected events, and 
unexpected encounters, the convention was awe-inspiring. It was the breeding ground and pacemaker for California for the coming years. Everyday people debated and future leaders fought. Ideas were cast out and motions set in stone. Unionizers strummed guitars on the grass. Planned Parenthood handed out pink condoms. The after-parties brought everyone together. In short, it felt like a typical weekend on a college campus. 
Cheers to the next one.
It’s party time as Democrats faced a wild weekend full of surprises.▶ FIGURE SKATING , from page 6
gavin  delia    gdelia@ucsd.eduearnestly discussed their years of training, it was clear that the activity was a major part of their lives. It was very hard for Miller to imagine that she could give up skating after high school, seeing as it had been the center of her life for so long.
“In intercollegiate skating, I can skate up to the level that 
I want to without that pressure that comes with normal-track skating, ” Miller said. “Nationals was a culmination of that place of wanting to skate for myself and my school, while pursuing other goals in my life, too. After my program, I was definitely very emotional. ”
Villarroel-Sanchez, James, and President Miller all 
see a bright future for UCSD Figure Skating, which ended up finishing tenth at nationals. James knows of a few skaters from her hometown rink who are attending UCSD next year and plan to join the team. With many skaters graduating this year, recruitment and finding new members is of the utmost importance. Experienced skaters and beginners are both equally welcome, as all three skaters believe diversity in skill level is part of what makes UCSD Figure Skating so successful.
“I have put a lot of heart and soul into the club we 
created. It’s grown exponentially over the years. I really just want to see it keep growing and be a place that is nurturing and positive for people at all levels. ” Miller said. “We’ve all 
grown so much from being part of this club. What helps us competitively is that we have such a large support system 
for each other. I’m really proud of the fact that this is a team that works because they want to, not because there’s a coach yelling at them to. ”
“We fund the program ourselves, we go to practice 
ourselves. We have no incentive other than the fact that we love skating. We’re only there to support each other. I don’t think I could have done as well as I did at nationals without that, ” James said. “I didn’t come away with a medal from this competition. But not in a bad way. In a way that makes me want to go back, because now I have the idea that I can actually do this. ”
By Gavin D’Elia 
// Staff WriterCharlotte   Armstrong    c1armstr@ucsd.edu
“We’re trying to address the 
various healthcare inequities 
that manifest in our society. 
We are here as a vehicle for 
hearing different voices and 
different intersections of 
voices. We are here to stand 
with our coalition partner. ”A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Are you still wondering what you should wear to Sun God Festival? Here are a few suggestions that 
are sure to help you make the best of your Sun God experience. 
A Good Pair of Shoes
What someone finds comfortable may be different from person to person, but finding a shoe that 
doesn’t make you want to throw it off at the end of a music festival is ideal. To be on the safe side, try 
wearing inexpensive shoes that aren’t white. Y ou do not want to end up getting permanent stains on the precious pairs you just bought.
A Fanny Pack
While it may feel like a fanny pack treads the line between trendy teen and middle-aged tourist, 
there is a free pass for music festivals. Fanny packs are practical because you will be able to move freely through the crowds without having the horrible realization that you dropped your keys and will never see them again.
Shorts
UC San Diego students seem to fear any bottoms that aren’t jeans or athletic wear, but if possible, 
wear shorts. Although San Diego weather is temperamental and changes every three seconds, it always gets hot when dancing next to a bunch of other sweaty bodies. Y ou don’t necessarily want to 
be jamming out in sweaty skinny jeans. If you don’t wear shorts, try lightweight pants or skirts to keep 
from letting the heat get you down.
Statement Pieces
Music festivals are meant to be fun, and the fashion 
involved with music festivals can be fun too. Picking 
a fun, trendy, or colorful piece that doesn’t weigh you 
down can be a great way to take your outfit from everyday to music festival ready. This can range from a fun headband to a cool shirt. Friendly reminder that 
cultural appropriation is a common trend within music 
festivals, so remember to be mindful of your choices and double check to make sure they are not problematic to maintain that accepting music-festival atmosphere.
Ultimately, Whatever Makes Y ou Comfortable
Hey, if you want to wear white high heels and a 
chicken suit to Sun God, that is your prerogative! Go with your gut and wear what you feel most comfortable and confident in. Although pictures will undoubtedly 
be taken, good music and great company will be the 
memories you cherish years from now.How many people out there are: 1. going to Sun God Festival, and 2. have never heard of a single 
artist in the lineup? Well, I have some good news: This is a problem that I and many other students are facing. In my experience, I often face situations where I have no clue whatsoever about the songs 
my friends are talking about. It is important to remember that music tastes vary widely among people, 
and there’s no reason why everyone should like the same things. However, those of us who don’t follow the crowd tend to be left in the dark during times like these. In spite of feeling left out based upon my lacking musical knowledge, I endeavor to help those like me have fun at Sun God nonetheless. So 
without further ado, here are a few tips for the music noobs of UC San Diego who are heading in blind 
this weekend.
Do a little artist research.
Though it may sound obvious, researching a bit about the lineup will do wonders to increase the 
average music noob’s enjoyment of the concert. For example, a simple Google search made me realize 
that Cuco is like the lo-fi hip hop radio they have on Y ouTube with some Spanglish mixed in, which 
I’m more than okay with. Sir Sly reminds me of a less-banjo-heavy Mumford & Sons, and Robotaki is a producer whose dynamic style blends aspects of funk and Electronic Dance Music. Though he actually isn’t a mechanized version of the Taki snacks, which makes much more sense in hindsight. All in all, I 
found a couple songs that I would listen to again, a result which definitely exceeded my expectations.
Consult friends who know what they’re talking about.
Don’t we all have friends whose music tastes are a bit obscure? In my 
experience, friends who have an acute awareness of what’s what in music 
come in handy when Sun God rolls around. Instead of them telling me 
about some random music video, I can get their opinions on the artists 
from the lineup. I mean, what are friends for if I can’t use their knowledge of what they love for my own personal interests, am I right? 
Just let loose and dance.
Let’s say someone doesn’t have friends or an internet connection; What 
do they do then? Or what if someone else doesn’t care about music and is just going for the Sun God experience? In that case, letting loose and enjoying everything as it comes is the best course of action. When in doubt, just scream a lot and try not to get moshed to death. Sun God is something 
that a person can only experience so many times, after all. It’s best to just 
take it all in stride.
Above all, don’t be too concerned about knowing every single artist that 
will be performing. It sucks to be in the dark about certain things, but Sun 
God isn’t a test that needs to be studied for. The experience will be different 
for everyone who attends, which only adds to the fun of it all. What to Wear to Sun God  
by Samirah Martinez // Staff WriterHow to Enjoy Sun God If You're a Music Noob
by Jade Hookham // Contributing Writer
signs  at  sun  god
Welcome back, Astro-lovers. I hope that Mercury being in retrograde did not mess with your 
lives too much, but do not fret. With the beginning of Taurus season, a sense of calm and stability 
will come over all. Moving on, Sun God Festival is coming up soon, and everyone is excited. However, not all signs will show this excitement in the same way. Aries will go crazy, Aquarians will be analyzing every song lyric, and Pisces … well, we’ll get to that.
Aries:
Aries are highly expressive and love to have fun, so an event like Sun God is an Aries’s utopia. 
Expect Aries to be decked out in bright and festive outfits and accessories; I’m talking body glitter, space buns, and fun fits. Also, don’t be surprised when an aggressive Aries is pushing past you to get to the front. They know what they want, and will not hesitate to take it!
Taurus:
Taurus may commonly be known as a more introverted sign, but at Sun God, Taurians will 
be completely in their element. They also will be checking out all the food, and I mean all the food. And considering that it is Taurus season, they will have a glow that’ll make you think, “wow, what highlighter is that person wearing?” , but it’s not highlighter, it’s cosmic glow from the stars themselves.
Gemini:
Geminis will be the social butterflies of Sun God. If you plan on sticking with your Gemini 
friend for the whole day, good luck, because you’ll probably lose them about 20 minutes into the festival. They will also suddenly become self-proclaimed music critics, talking about the art of the musicality of a song or the tension and resolution created by the contrast and so on.
Cancer:
I would be surprised to see a lot of Cancers at Sun God. These homebodies will be hesitant 
to leave their dorms or apartments and may say things such as, “I can just watch them perform it live … on Y outube” or “just send me videos of it so I can enjoy from the comfort of my home. ” 
If by some astrological anomaly there are a plethora of Cancers at Sun God, they’ll probably be 
complaining constantly.
Leo:
Oh, Leos, where do I start? Leos at Sun God will be taking pictures everywhere, emphasis on 
everywhere. “Can you take a pic of me here? W ait, no I didn’t say ‘with me, ’ I said ‘of’ me. ” They will be the loudest of the bunch and will do anything to stick out. They may become a drama queen/king, so try to avoid a situation that could cause that.
Virgo:
In a sense, Virgos will be the mom of your Sun God group, but not in the “aw, sweetie, come 
here and let me help you” way. Imagine your mom when she comes home and finds out you didn’t put the chicken out to thaw. Virgos are very loving, but also very critical. They probably have a strict plan for the whole day, and if anyone strays from the plan, they will face a Virgo’s wrath.
Libra:
In contrast with Virgo, Libras will be the overprotecting — but because they love you — mom 
of the group. They will be looking out for everyone, making sure all is well. Also, if there are any quarrels within the group, a Libra will be the first on the scene, resolving all issues. On the other 
hand, some Libras will get a little too friendly at Sun God. What? They can’t help their natural 
flirtatious tendencies!
Scorpio:
Scorpios are very passionate, so at Sun God, they will be very, very into the music. They 
will dance and jump and whip their hair back and forth without a care in the world. However, their intensity may cause slight problems. Scorpios have a tendency to be over-dramatic, so it is recommended that they are kept happy for the whole festival.
Sagittarius:
Sagittarians are adventurous and fiercely independent. They will ditch their friends to roam 
around, sample some food, and squeeze into the VIP section with only their confidence and charm. “Excuse me security, do you know who I am? This is a disgrace; i’m calling my lawyer. ” If 
they ever rejoin their friends though, you can be sure that everyone will be having a good time. 
Sagittarians have an uplifting mood that will make every situation a good one.
Capricorn:
Sun God is a fun event that should be stress free and a good time, but for Capricorns, this will 
not be the case. Capricorns will definitely be thinking about all of the homework they have to do. They will also be checking their TritonEd every two minutes in hopes of finding out how their did on the math midterm. Spoiler alert, they did fine!
Aquarius:
Aquarians are full-time intellectuals, a switch they can never turn off. They will analyze every 
note and lyric of each song. Additionally, they will talk to everyone and anyone around them about anything, leaving Sun God with about 20 new friends. And yes, this will annoy the friends they came with.
Pisces:
For Pisces, Sun God will be a dream, literally. As natural dreamers, do not be surprised to see 
a Pisces lying on the ground, eyes closed, fully absorbing the music and good vibes. Hopefully someone wakes them up though; it would be a shame for them to actually fall asleep through the whole festival!
For all of the signs out there, have fun at Sun God! The (non-Housing-Dining-Hospitality) 
food will be great, the performances will be incredible, and the entire experience will be unforgettable. Enjoy it and be safe. Until next time, Astro-lovers!By Natasha Vandamme 
// Contributing Writer101:
LIFESTYLE            THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
All of Us, the All of Us logo, and “The Future of Health Begins with You” are service marks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. B e  o n e  i n  a  m i l l i o n
It’s our di fferences that can make the  
difference in medical breakthroughs. 
For more information:
Call: (858) 265-1711
Email: allofus@ucsd.edu
You can also visit us in person at:  
851 School of Medicine Building 2 (“The Hut”)* 
9500 Gilman Drive  
La Jolla, CA 92093  
*Behind the Medical Education and Telemedicine BuildingSan Diego Community Artist Stacey Uy, for All of Us
You will  
receive  
compensation of 
$25 after you  
complete your  
visit.10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
You could pass all of your midterms with an A, but still have no class. That’s why these martyrs of media have happily put o ff 
their own studying to provide you with this guide to our thoughts on selections from this year’s San Diego Asian Film Festival.
1987:  When  the  Day  Comes
Directed  by  Jang  Joon-hwanMinding  the  Gap
Directed  by  Bing  Liu
Kiko  Boksingero
Directed  by Thop  NazarenoUnder the militant tyranny of President Chun Doo Hwan in the 1980s, 
South Korea was ready for a revolutionary outburst, an outlet to speak 
against the state’s injustices and marginalizations. Then in the tempestuous year of 1987, that revolution became a reality. The discovery of the police force’s torturing of a pro-democratic student protester, Park Jong Chul, covered the headlines. Citizens were fuming and appalled by the obloquy of their government. The gratuitous murder of an innocent youth sparked a wave of student protests and uprisings, which became epochal for the country’s historical pivot to a democratized republic. 
A political thriller, “1987: When the Day Comes” celebrates the journey 
of the civilians who soldiered on to win a battle against corrupt authorities. It is a tale of patriotism that illuminates many South Koreans’ commitments and fatal sacrifices to salvage the nation they loved. The movie marshals multiple characters, such as a prosecutor, journalists, and low-rank security officers who scrutinize the government and plot to repeal a dictatorship. Each protagonist also embodies the theme of courageous defiance, inspiring millions into political engagement and transcending the film’s palpable sense of rebellion. Filled with heart-gripping fervor and insight, this film largely informs on the despotic regime that a 1987 South Korean society rightfully dispelled, but also aptly brings a timely political story close to home.
—  Ashley  Chen
Senior Staff Writer“Minding the Gap, ” Director Bing Liu’s first feature documentary and 
a winner of the Jury Award for Groundbreaking Filmmaking at Sundance Film Festival, is a beautiful portrait of boyhood and friendship in a tightly-knit skateboarding community in the American Midwest, following the teengagers’ individual struggles with having to mature surrounded by childhood violence. “Minding” follows Liu’s two friends, Zack and Keire, as they navigate adulthood — for Zack, becoming a parent, and for Keire, becoming financially independent. Liu bravely inserts himself into Zack and Keire’s interviews, and his own storyline culminates in a truly rewarding viewing experience as Liu tries to make sense of the abuses present in each of their experiences. 
In its hour-and-a-half run, “Minding” far exceeds expectations with gut-
wrenching footage and interviews. “Minding” poignantly addresses complex and intersecting themes of toxic masculinity and abuse, as well as race and class, without shying away from the most difficult points in its subjects’ lives. It’s a stunning love letter to the escapist act of skateboarding, told through clips from Liu’s own archive of skate videos, and a fierce attempt at healing and reconciliation with the past. 
—  Justin  Nguyen
Contributing Writer
Brandishing a pair of oven mitts in lieu of boxing gloves, Kiko (Noel 
Comia Jr.) first appears to us as a quiet Filipino boy. At home, he is cared for by his nanny, Diday (Yayo Aguila), and at school, his classmates pick on him. Both are results of his mother’ s recent death, and both will change when he has to move to America to be with his next of kin.
Just because Kiko is quiet does not mean that he doesn’t have his own 
wants and wishes. His desire to become a boxer leads him to his estranged father, George (Yul Servo), a professional boxer. Under George’s guidance, Kiko tests the boundaries of his life and soon learns what it means for him to grow up as a Filipino youth.
Kiko’s journey is detailed through subtle everyday scenes. Narrative-wise, 
nothing is especially unique, yet seemingly insignificant events — like eating vegetables — can actually become large steps in the young boy’s life. “Kiko Boksingero” is not a revolutionary coming-of-age story, but it nonetheless tells a gentle, simple tale with unexpected, but much-appreciated, warmth.
—  Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff WriterMukhsin
Directed  by  Yashim  Ahmad
Director Yasmin Ahmad’s “Mukhsin” recounts a semi-autobiographical 
tale of childhood’s first loves. It begins in the style of an old film reel, visually grainy during certain scenes, that cultivates a nostalgic atmosphere. While the plot is rather straightforward, the beauty of the film lies in its simplicity; Ahmad possesses an astounding ability to not only breathe life into her characters but also build a cohesive world around them. Pitted against the backdrop of a Malaysian village, “Mukhsin” excels in its dialogue — the gossip between aunties in the kitchen hand-making ice cream and the hushed late night talks between parents help to color the world of Orked (Sharifah Aryana). All of these factors serve to support the slowly budding relationship between 10-year-old Orked and 12-year-old Mukhsin (Mohd Syafie Naswip). As scenes flit from the schoolyard to innocent bike rides to the children’s home life, each moment between the two protagonists remains pure, genuine, and candid. “Mukhsin” shows more than the beginnings of a young romance, indulging the viewer with a story not only about youth and family, but also first loves and second chances.
—  Jahfreen  Alam
Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF SAN DIEGO ASIAN FILM FESTIVALA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
The  Third  Murder
Directed  by  Hirokazu  Kore-eda
Misumi (Koji Yakusho) has already confessed to beating his former 
employer to death, burning his corpse, and stealing his wallet when defense 
lawyer Tomoaki Shigemori (Masaharu Fukuyama) joins the case. What’s more, when questioned about the details of the evening of the murder, Misumi changes his story each time, making his narrative and motives nearly impossible to account for. Defending him seems almost futile, and yet Shigemori is determined to reduce Misumi’s punishment from the death sentence to life in prison. 
Originally released in 2017, “The Third Murder” is a Japanese legal 
drama that delves into the troubled mind of a defense attorney. Through the eyes of Shigemori, the audience is confronted with questions attorneys face every day: Should attorneys’ top priorities revolve around developing a winning legal strategy? Or should they try to reveal as much of the truth as possible, no matter how implausible it might seem? How does one determine who deserves to live, and who should die? Set in 2017, this film exhibits the traditional style and conventions of Japanese film, incorporating viewers in medias res and only allowing them small, fleeting glimpses into the characters’ narratives. While this, combined with the abundant legalese, might make the film difficult to follow for some, the narrative is continuous enough that it all comes together in the end to create a fascinating glimpse into Japan’s legal system.
—  Daisy  Scott
A&E Editorial AssistantWa ru
Directed  by  Various  Directors
When tragedy strikes a small New Zealand town, it shakes the 
community, and the surrounding world, to its core. Artfully arranged into eight vignettes following a variety of Maori women, “Waru” shows the aftershocks of a young Maori boy’s murder at the hands of his guardian. These stories, which don’t intersect other than through the central murder, explore the different impacts of this death on both the community, and the individuals who comprise it. In one frantic and disturbing piece, a drunken woman realizes that she’s left her own baby alone overnight. In another, the boy’s great-grandmothers, in a powerfully haunting performance, argue over where to bury the child’s body. A Maori news reporter witnesses the racist backlash that surrounds the tragedy, and, in the film’s eighth and final vignette, two sisters venture to retrieve children they suspect are being abused, arguing over the futility of it all. 
Each short was created by a different director and later joined together to 
create the full film, but the tone feels remarkably consistent. A suspenseful, somber atmosphere permeates each piece, as the women’s stories act together to reveal an indirect, yet comprehensive view on the cycles of violence. Touching on issues of race, abuse, and poverty, “Waru” provides a evocative look at the circumstances that create the most horrific tragedies.
—  Chloe  Esser
A&E Editor12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
The Guardian chats with “Kiko Boksingero” director, Thop Nazareno.
Guardian:  First off, you have a film focused on 
two subjects: a young boy growing up and boxing. 
Why did you choose these subjects? Did one 
come before the other?
Nazareno:  Y es. Initially, I wanted a family story, 
and I always wanted to make a film about children 
and how helpless they are with the circumstances 
they’re in. The boxing came in while I was already 
developing the script. Boxing is a big part of the 
culture in the Philippines, because you know, Manny Pacquiao is now a big thing, and everyone looks up to him as a quote-unquote “national hero, ” an inspiration, and an aspirational icon.
G: Were there any real life people or relationships 
that inspired the characters of George and Diday, or that also inspired the particular kinds of 
relationships they had with Kiko?
N: Y e s .  T h e  w h o l e  s t o r y  w a s  i n s p i r e d  b y  a  r e a l  
person. There was a real Kiko, a childhood 
friend, who was a few years younger than me and 
grew up without a mom. Although his dad was 
around physically, they didn’t have an emotional connection. His family was his nanny. We cheated Diday into the film, so yes, it’s based on a true 
story of Kiko, inspired by a real story.
G: And George, too? Was there a George, 
possibly?
N: Not exactly in terms of the real George, but, for 
example, I have friends who became early fathers 
who weren’t prepared for the responsibility, and 
I think that influenced me in developing the 
character of George.
G: And let’s talk about the look of the film. I’ve 
noticed that it has a very smooth, very earthy color palette. And even the set design is really 
clean and homey. And I also noticed that many of 
the shots were also static shots. Were these simply stylistic and aesthetic decisions, or did you want to convey something deeper through the film’s 
appearance?
N: I’m taking the point of view of Kiko in 
the film. I wanted the audience to feel how 
Kiko feels. So, I allowed this sense of camera movement and the design to talk about it. It evolves throughout the story depending on how 
Kiko feels. So, for example, I started with earthy 
colors and static shots, because that’s how Kiko feels. Everything is mundane. But then when his dad came, everything changed. Very masculine, and the shots were moving.
G: I’m curious about the score, too. It’s very lovely 
and quite fitting with the film. What was the process of developing the film’s music?
N: We actually had very few days to work on the 
music; I think a weekend. So the first thing that came into mind about the score was that I wanted 
it to be a minimalist kind of music. I didn’t want 
too much instrument in it. And I also wanted to put an elemental voice of a woman, which kind of reflects the absence of Kiko’s mom. I wanted it 
to have an indie-alt feel, which matches the pine 
trees and the setting of the film.
G: O n e  r e c u r r i n g  p l o t  p o i n t  w a s  K i k o  a n d  h i s  
dilemma with eating his vegetables. It’s something that seems very commonplace in many families, 
and yet you were able to bring a greater emotional 
depth to it. Could you expand on that?
N: Y eah, I think it makes Kiko relatable to 
everyone. We’ve all been there growing up, and as a kid, you don’t like vegetables. And it makes it 
relatable to the audience. I used it as a device too, 
to show Kiko’s evolution, maturity, because it is a coming of age story.
G: And speaking of Kiko, how was it like working 
with Noel? He’s a very young actor. And how different or similar was it working with such 
a young talent than from working with adult 
actors?
N: Working with Noel … He’s not really new in 
acting; he has a musical theater background. He’s been acting since he was six. When we shot this, 
he was 13. He looks younger, though. He actually 
had won acting awards. He’s had this musical theater background developed at eight. That’s when we actually discovered this one adaptation 
of “The Little Prince” where he played the role of the prince. That’s when I discovered him and 
decided I wanted this kid to play Kiko. And it 
was easy to work with him. He had experience, 
and he can easily pick up instructions. He’s a very cool kid; he doesn’t have tantrums and all that, which is the scariest part of casting a kid. And his parents are very supportive; they treat me as 
their other son. 
G: Did you encounter any setbacks, or were there 
any interesting experiences that you had while 
filming this movie?
N: The biggest problem wasn’t actually in the 
filming, but before the filming. Since it’s my first film, it was so hard to get funding and convince 
producers that I can pull off a full-length feature. 
So that’s been a big struggle. But for the filming part, I was surprised that we were able to pull it off. I think that the only problem we had during 
the shoot was … it rained. On one of our shooting 
days, it rained. We couldn’t afford to add an additional shooting day, but we were still able to pull it off. So, I think the main setback was before the filming, then we were in actual trouble.
G: D i d  y o u  h a v e  a  r e a s o n  w h y  y o u  c h o s e  t h a t  
particular location?
N: I treat the location as an additional character 
in the scene. This place is called Baguio City. They call it the City of Pines. It also has a boxing 
culture because of the high altitude. Boxers train 
there in the mountains, so that took to the story itself. But mainly because I treat it as an additional character, now it helps push the story and push 
Kiko’s emotional journey.
G: What do you think makes this particular story 
about Kiko relevant or relatable to both Filipino 
audiences as well as other foreign audiences like Americans?
N: I wanted to tell a very universal story. A story 
that can break cultural differences and focus on family — and everyone has family. And you 
see your mom, or if your dad leaves you, then it 
doesn’t matter what country you’re from, you’ll be able to relate to that. So, I think, that itself is a family story. I think that makes it relevant to 
everyone.
G: Kiko has to eventually move to America. 
However, you did not show that. Will you ever 
consider crossing over to America, or would you 
like to continue creating Filipino-based stories?
N: I don’t mind creating an American-based 
story. Since I finished my elementary here [in 
the U.S.], the U.S. has a special place in my heart. 
Actually, my next film, I want to take a project 
that I can shoot here, and maybe film it in the Philippines, like a co-production thing.
G: Is there any advice you would tell your younger 
self, or possibly an aspiring director?
N: I think, first thing, you have to really love what 
you’re doing. Y ou have to make sure that you love something not because of money, not because of 
fame, but because you like telling stories, because 
you would die to tell a story. So, I think just keep the passion. And don’t give up, because it’s not easy. And you will run out of money, you will get 
your heart broken, but at the end of the day, it’s 
only you and yourself, and that’s the only thing that matters. 
This interview has been edited and condensed for 
clarity.
—  natalie tran
Senior Staff WriterQ&A with Thop nazareno 
PHOTO COURTESY OF RAPPLERCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MAMAK KHADEM Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 23 - APR 292018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANTHURSDAY, APRIL 26
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
1pm
ILEAD: SUN GOD IDEAS - BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
Learn about party safety, alcohol and other 
drugs, and bystander intervention in preparation for Sun God Festival. Co-presented 
by the Student Health Advocates and the CARE 
at SARC Peer Education. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: FLOURISH 
- GALBRAITH HALL ROOM 190
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well at UC San Diego? Dr. Sheva Assar and a Wellness Peer Educator provide informative and interactive exercises to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, and self-compassion. Contact: sassar@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCTS ) - GREAT HALL OF 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Come learn, practice, and share language in a 
casual, fun setting with amazing hosts! Everybody is welcome to attend - all language levels, students, staff, faculty, community members, and more! You do not have to live in I-House or be an international student to attend our programs! This quarter, LCTs will occur on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays. Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
NATIONAL PRETZEL DAY - TRITON STEPS 
Free for UCSD Students w/ ID. Come out to the 
triton steps on National Pretzel Day where University Centers is going to give out free goodies! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES! - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come to Therapy Fluffies every Thursday from 
1:30-2:30pm! We bring a variety of trained therapy dogs to help you all unwind! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu 
7pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCTS ) - ASANTE 
CLASSROOM 
Come learn, practice, and share language in a 
casual, fun setting with amazing hosts! Everybody is welcome to attend - all language levels, students, staff, faculty, community members, and more! You do not have to live in I-House or be an international student to attend our programs! This quarter, LCTs will occur on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays. Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
MAMAK KHADEM - THE LOFT, PC 
EAST
Called one of the wonders of world trance 
music by the Los Angeles Times, Iranian singer Mamak Khadem captivates audiences by blending her root sin the ancient poetry and music of the Persian master with a bold and revolutionary new sound. Her latest album, The Road, invites us on a journey that includes her native Iran as well as Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Greece, and Arab-Andalusia. Always searching for threads of connection, Khadem draws upon a treasure trove of traditional melodies, rhythms, and poetry to create a lush sonic landscape that is nothing short of intoxicating. Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.comTUE4.24
THU4.26
7am
ON UCSD- TV TONIGHT: SATURDAY 
SCIENCE AT SCRIPPS RESEARCH: 
BIOLOGICAL RHYTHMS -UCSD- TV 
ON SPECTRUM CHANNEL 1231, COX CHANNEL 135, AT&T U- VERSE 
9am
AI AND THE FUTURE OF SOCIETY 
CONFERENCE - DAY 1: THE VILLAGE 
15 / DAY 2: GPS ROOM 3106
JFIT is holding a two-day conference of its new 
research program on Digitalization Disruption and the Future of Society. Our goal is to analyze the ongoing changes associated with AI, IOT, industry 4.0 and society 5.0, with a focus on the social science perspective and the global comparison. The conference will bring together scholars and practitioners from the U.S., Germany and Japan, to discuss the role of global social science research in the ongoing discourse on the future of production, business, work and regulation. Registration for this event is required by Apr 27, 2018. Visit the registration page for details. http://jfit.ucsd.edu/conferences-events/ai-and-the-future-of-society.htmlSAT4.28MON4.23
3pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DIY TOTORO TERRARIUMS - PRICE 
CENTER PLAZA
Add a nostalgic feel to your dorm with a DIY 
Totoro Terrarium! Come out to Price Center 
Plaza and customize succulents with 
Totoro-themed adornments to bring the iconic movie to life in your hands! Whether you are a long-time Studio Ghibili fan or a crafty enthusiast, this event is certainly one you cannot miss! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
GAME OF THRONES SEASON ONE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
See it on the Big Screen! Two episodes screened 
each week. Cost: FREE for UCSD Students w/ID. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
11am
CHILENAS IN THE DIASPORA: 
CULTURE, RESISTANCE, AND HOPE 
- THURGOOD MARSHALL COLLEGE 
ROOM, PRICE CENTER WEST 
During the military dictatorship of Chile 
(1973-90), over one million Chileans fled the country to escape political repression and economic crises. This event centers Chilean women artists who came to the United States during this time. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Want to treat a group? Pre-purchase tickets for your department, student organization, or team through cash or department inde. Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.eduFRI4.27WED4.258PM ·THE LOFT, PC EAST
2:30pm
DISTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come in on to The Zone Wednesday from 
2:30-3:30 pm, right after R&R Squad to learn a 
new way to de-stress with the CAPs Wellness 
Peers! Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Get a one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration and learn about deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that help to 
reduce stress. You never know what a simple 
breathing exercise can do for you! Workshops 
are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer 
Educators. 
5:30pm
LOSING THE NOBEL PRIZE: A BOOK 
DISCUSSION & SIGNING - ATKINSON HALL AUDITORIUM
Please join us for a profound discussion that 
explores the perils of sciences highest honor with astrophysicist Brian Keating and celebrated science fiction writer David Brin on Wednesday, April 25, 2018 from 5:30-7:30 p.m. in Atkinson Hall Auditorium. A book signing and reception will follow the talk; books will be available for purchase from the UC San Diego Bookstore. All books purchased at the event will receive a limited edition gold plated bookmark, designed by Keating, commemorating the book launch. This event is free and open to the public. To RSVP , visit imagination.ucsd.edu. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu
6pm
SHAPE YOUR CAREER - SPRING 
2018 - LIEBOW AUDITORIUM 
(ROOM 2100 ), BASIC SCIENCE 
BUILDING, UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
Helping you prepare for 21st century jobs, The 
Basement and OIC have teamed together to deliver this timely series. Learn about the basic elements when developing an idea and starting a business. The program is CCR-approved, you must complete at least 5 sessions for CCR credit. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
4/27/18CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Falsehoods
5. Burn9. Police attacks
14. Peak
15. Model ____ Macpherson
16. Beginning17. Ore beds18. Urgent abbr.
19. Start of a Dickens title (2 wds.)
20. Monet, e.g.
22. Make again24. Most favorable26. Station wagon
27. Green gem
30. Tibetan priest
33. ____ Jersey34. Wind instrument36. Harm
40. Feats
42. Instant lawn
44. Laid bathroom flooring45. Road47. Eastern garment49. Children’s game50. Actor ____ Idle52. Renovate54. Wind dir.57. Small dog breed59. Danish shore sight (2 wds.)62. More adjacent66. Oahu greeting67. Fit of anger69. Prod70. Military student71. Land unit72. Unlatch73. Squirrels’ homes74. Back75. Try outDOWN
 1. Liquid rock2. Bakery worker3. Discharge
4. ____ citizen
5. City in Washington
6. Chicago trains7. Clock feature8. Revoke
9. Zoo sound
10. Poker word
11. Thinker ____ Newton12. Letter before epsilon13. Ranch animal
21. More thinly scattered
23. Dressed
25. The ____ of March27. Abolishes28. Converge
29. Water vessel
31. Artist Henri ____
32. Pierre’s pal35. Roberto’s “two”37. Choir voice38. Equipment39. Brim41. Fourth letter43. Small arrow46. Robbins and Allen48. Go back in51. Roman general53. Oolong server54. Make into law55. Of the sun56. Wear away58. Spear60. Biblical “you”61. Bonnets63. Cowboy’s gear64. Makes do65. Housing expense68. Retirement acct.HOUSING
Costa Verde Village. $1800 - $3525. 8720 
Costa Verde Boulevard, San Diego, CA 
92122. We welcome you to visit our luxury community in the beautiful La Jolla/UTC 
area of San Diego, California. Costa Verde 
Village has everything to offer including 
studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes that include full size washers 
and dryers, central air and heat, private 
balconies and patios, modern kitchen with pantry and in select homes we have fire -
places available. Costa Verde Village offers 
spacious floor plans, fitness center, billiards 
and game room, refreshing swimming 
pool with spa, playground and planned resident activities. You are convenient to La 
Jolla beaches, UCSD, UTC Mall, and much 
more.......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Furnished Master Bedroom. $1150 per 
month. San Diego, CA 92101.Private 
Bathroom Available for Month to Month Lease. This apartment is one of the several 
apartments SABA housing manages in the San Diego area. SABA housing specializes 
in providing fully furnished shared apart -
ments available for short term leases. This apartment is ready to move in with a fully furnished bedroom, kitchen, living room and more. You roommates will all be stu -
dents at UCSD and working professionals. Longer leases are also welcome if you want 
to commit to a longer stay. .....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
BLVD 63- SPECIAL. $1750 - $4720. 6345 
Cajon Blvd. San Diego, CA 92115. Discover 
a relaxed So-Cal vibe apartment with an 
urban twist-where beach style collides 
with boulevard attitude, all in the SDSU 
area. Does student living get much better than this? Two resort-style pools, a spa, outdoor fire pits and grills, and shuffle -
board let you live the life that most only dream about. Then add in an awesome tech center, game room, and epic fitness center. It’s everything you need to put 
you in a San Diego State of Mind. -----Now 
Leasing Fall 2017! Reserve you new home 
today!.......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
AUTO
2009 SmartForTwo Pure. Options Included: 
Rear Wheel Drive, Manual Steering, Front Disc/Rear Drum Brakes, Wheel Covers, Steel Wheels, Tires - Front Four-season, Tires - 
Rear Performance, Intermittent windshield 
wipers, Aux Audio Input, Cloth Seats, 
Bucket Seats, Leather Steering Wheel, Remote-control entry, Powered door locks, 
Rear Defrost, Remote Trunk Release, Aux 
Power Outlet, Passenger Vanity Mirror, Traction Control, 4-Wheel ANTI LOCK 
BRAKES, Passenger air bag On/Off Switch, All vehicles go through a lengthy presale 
inspection process to assure our custom -
ers the peace of mind they are looking for. 
….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
New 2014 Subaru XV Crosstrek. San Diego, 
CA 92111. Body Style: Wagon Exterior Color: Satin White Pearl Inside color: Y Mileage: 0 
mis..…...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
2012 Jaguar XF. Jaguar San Diego is hon -
ored to present a wonderful example of 
pure vehicle design... this 2012 Jaguar XF 
only has ten miles on it and could poten -
tially be the vehicle of your dreams! The XF “s pristine attractive looks were com-
bined with Jaguar”s high standard of excel-
lence in order to make this a unique find. 
There’s no need to look any further. Jaguar San Diego has the perfect match for you. 
This XF”s Ebony on Dove/Warm Charcoal 
color combination will make heads turn. Beautiful color combination with Ebony 
exterior over Dove/Warm Charcoal inte -
rior making this the 1 to own! This Jaguar 
includes: Premium Package I including 
back-up camera...... ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds for more information
JOBS
Retail Sale Associate. COX. Santee, CA. As a 
Retail Sales Associate, you will play a pivotal 
role in the continued stability and growth 
of our organization, by serving as a front-line ambassador of the Cox brand. Working 
in a Cox Solutions Store, you will guide customers through the purchase decision, installation process and education of Cox 
product and accessory offerings while pro -
viding an exceptional customer experience. 
…..ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mortgage Loan Officer- Salt Lake City, UT. 
Mortgage Loan Officer- Salt Lake City, UT 
Description: Build your career with a com -
pany that is rated a top 20 lender nation-
ally for VA Home Loans! Veterans First 
Mortgage is a FHA/VA Home Lender Come join a team that trains you from the ground up! *Reimbursement for licensing fees once 
aboard, and NMLS is passed within the first 
2 attempts *$500 New Hire Bonus awarded 
to those that pass the NMLS on their first attempt Veterans First Mortgage employ -
ees strive to give each and every borrower ...... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) -Central 
San Diego. AccentCare is a national post-
acute healthcare provider with 45 years of industry experience. We thrive on provid-ing patient-centric care and a warm and 
personalized experience within our local 
communities. Your Success is our Success. 
We strive to provide our new employees with a structured on-boarding process to 
help you become assimilated quickly, and 
cutting-edge tools to make your daily work easier and more efficient. We offer exten -
sive training and a wide-array of opportu-
nities ........ ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team fell to UC Irvine 
in the Big West Tournament 
quarter finals on April 19, 2018. 
UCSD lost in three sets: 25–18, 25–
18, 25–16. This loss to the Anteaters 
means the Tritons’ season is now 
over. It finishes with an overall 
record of 9–19.
The first set began with the 
Tritons and Anteaters trading points 
back and forth. At 13–13, UCI pulled ahead with a kill and followed with a service ace, prompting a timeout from UCSD. Unfortunately, 
the timeout did little to stop 
the Anteaters momentum. They 
aggressively attacked the Tritons and never dropped the lead secured 
at 15–13 in the set. An attack error 
by freshman outside hitter Wyatt Harrison gave UCI the set, 25–18.
The Anteater momentum seemed to slow down at the start of the second set. Much like in the first set, the teams jockeyed back 
and forth, trading points up until 
9–9. At that point, two consecutive 
kills ended the stalemate and broke the game open. UCSD was unable to score more than one point in a row, leading to an easy set win for UCI, 
25–18.
UCI burst into the third set 
and immediately began to pressure 
UCSD. The Anteaters quickly 
jumped to a 10–3 lead following six consecutive points. The Tritons were 
unable to recover from this early slump and dropped the final set, 
25–16.
UCSD now heads into the 
offseason, looking to retool and 
prepare for the upcoming season.On Wednesday, April 11, the 
UC San Diego athletic department recognized 12 student athletes at a 
luncheon held in the RIMAC Annex 
Dugout Room. Although every Triton athlete is known for their 
exceptional performance on the 
playing field and in the classroom, 
only a select few were chosen to 
be celebrated on National Student Athlete Day. On top of succeeding 
educationally and athletically, 
recipients were also congratulated for their contributions to surrounding communities.
I was one of the 12 individuals 
picked to achieve the award, and was beyond honored, to say the least. As we all congregated Wednesday afternoon, I was flattered to share 
the special occasion alongside 11 other amazing student athletes 
and incredibly supportive faculty 
members, coaches, and professors. It is moments like these when you feel as if all the hard work on the 
field, day in and day out, and the 
dedication to the constant grind has 
paid o ff. 
Carrying the title of a student 
athlete is an unbelievable privilege. 
People are o ften quick to compare it 
to a full-time job, when in reality it 
is more closely related to balancing two, arguably three, careers, in 
addition to working overtime 
almost every single day. As a student athlete we are expected to excel in our sport, maintain a high GPA, tend to our aching bodies and create a social life all at the same time. It sounds impossible, but despite the rigorous challenge, we all seem to 
find a way to make it work out one 
way or another, and when it does, it 
is the greatest feeling in the world.
Waking up at 5:45 a.m. for 
weights, sweeping buckets of water 
off the tarp a fter a night of heavy 
rainfall, missing multiple classes 
due to travel trips, taking tests on 
the road, and loading up on ca ffeine 
to finish a paper before the clock 
strikes 3 a.m. on a night before 
game day are only a few situations 
student athletes are accustomed to. 
Nonetheless, it is enough to question why anyone would choose to put their body and mind through such exhaustion. The answer is simple 
— the passion to compete and the dedication to a sport we all fell in love with as little kids.
Softball is, without a doubt, a 
game of failure. It is more mental than physical and you have to be willing to accept the fact that you will fail more o ften than not — a 
game of high risk, high reward. 
What makes it all worthwhile in 
the end is the ability to look back at the stressful recruiting process that enabled me to get here in the 
first place and to honestly admit to 
myself that I am living my dream. 
There is no other place where I 
receive the same adrenaline rush before games or sense of belonging 
and comfort. There is no other place 
I will experience the unparalleled 
feeling of hitting a walk-o ff double 
in the bottom of the seventh, 
stomach filled with butter flies, or a diving play up the middle to prevent 
the game-winning run from scoring. There is no other place that will 
humble me with challenge beyond challenge. 
Nothing compares to the ongoing 
demand and respect the game of softball requires. It has helped me 
become the person I am today, 
granted me with a group of lifelong 
friends, and an adventure to forever 
look back on. To see my proud 
parents in the stands a fter all their 
love and support through the uneasy process, and the multiple road trips 
down Interstate 5 to Huntington 
Beach showcases before college ball, I can finally say I have made it. 
Being a student athlete means 
being a part of something so 
much bigger than yourself and 
representing not only a university or a program but the alumni who have created the foundation before you 
even existed. It is about stepping 
outside of your comfort zone to find qualities within yourself you 
never knew you had and building character through both the struggles 
and the successes to utilize later on 
in the real world. It is about pushing yourself to unexpected limits and celebrating the small victories 
towards your overall arching goal. 
And lastly, it is about ful filling the 
best four years of your life with the drive to be a better version of yourself both physically on the field 
and mentally o ff the field.
Tritons Knocked OutReflections of a Student Athlete
The men’s volleyball team heads into the 
offseason with a final record of 9-19.Staff Writer Madeline Lewis discusses what makes being a student athlete worth it.
BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports EditorBY madeline lewis
senior staff writer
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 23, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Men's  baseball
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSUC San Diego 
Knocks Cal 
State San 
Bernardino Out of the 
Park
By scoring in double digits all four 
games this past weekend, the 
baseball team improved to 28-13 
overall.
This weekend, the UC San Diego 
baseball team squared o ff against Cal 
State University San Bernardino for 
their ninth week of conference play. 
The series against San Bernardino 
was split into four games: the first pair 
of games at home, the second pair of games on the road. Wherever the 
game was played, the Triton showed 
up to play. The UCSD team walloped 
CSUSB, winning all four games in 
commanding fashion. The Tritons 
improve their record to 28–13 overall 
and 24–12 in conference.
Game 1
In the first game, UCSD set the 
tone for the rest of the series. At home 
and in front of a friendly crowd, the 
Tritons blew out the Coyotes 12–1. Through all nine innings, UCSD was 
almost able to keep San Bernardino scoreless: One run scored in the fourth inning saved the Coyotes from a shutout. The Triton’s scoring 
started o ff slowly, but quickly ramped 
up when it got started. By the end 
of the fourth inning, the score was 
4–1. The Tritons held onto a nice 
lead, but the Coyotes were still in striking distance. As the game progressed, UCSD slowly built on 
this lead, scoring 2 more runs in the 
sixth inning. In the eighth inning, however, the Tritons truly put the 
game out of reach from the Coyotes. 
With the help of three home runs, the Tritons were able to score 6 runs 
off of 4 hits. The second player up at 
bat, redshirt sophomore catcher Nick 
Kitzmann, homered to right field, 
scoring the first run. Redshirt junior 
outfield Zander Clarke followed that 
up, homering to le ft field with the 
bases loaded and netting the Tritons 4 more runs. Redshirt sophomore Steven Schuknecht closed out the 
inning with a homer to right center 
field. At this point, the Coyotes were 
down for the count, playing out a unimpactful ninth inning before the Tritons could ultimately declare their victory.
Game 2
In the second game of the series, 
the Tritons were flying high, coming 
off a dominant performance in game 
1. UCSD was able to follow it up 
with another commanding win. The 
Tritons shutout the Coyotes 19–0 in 
their second game. In this game, the 
Tritons had an even more impressive 
offensive performance. UCSD scored 
throughout the game: 2 runs in the 
second inning, 6 runs in the third 
inning, 6 runs in the fourth inning, and 5 runs in the seventh inning. 
Junior first baseman R.J. Prince and 
senior in fielder Justin Beck recorded 
three runs each. Coupled with a nice performance at the mound by 
pitcher Preston Mott, who recorded 8 strikeouts, the Tritons were able to 
cruise to victory.
Game 3
For game 3, the Tritons headed out to Fiscalini Field in San 
Bernardino to start the second leg of the series. Despite not being in 
their home stadium, the Tritons were 
unperturbed and able to replicate 
their previous performances in the 
unfamiliar field. In the first road 
game of the series, UCSD came out 
strong, clobbering the Coyotes 26–8. 
Every player recorded at least one run, except the pitchers. The scoring 
was highlighted in the fifth inning, 
where the Tritons scored 8 runs o ff 
6 hits. Top scorers include redshirt 
junior third baseman Alex Eliopulos, 
who scored 4 runs, and freshman shortstop Shay Whitcomb and Beck, 
who scored 3 runs each. Though 
they did not score, the two pitcher 
— Senior Jack Rupe and redshirt 
freshman pitcher Antonia Barrios — 
had solid contributions to the win. Combined, they recorded 5 ground 
outs and 8 strikeouts. 
Game 4
In a performance that was a bit more tempered than the previous 
three games, the Tritons won the final 
game of the series 12–3. With the 
series already in the bag, the Tritons 
came out with performance that was 
more toned down than their previous 
three games. Despite the smaller point differential, UCSD still had a solid 
game. Beck lead the team in scoring with 3 runs; Eliopulos and redshirt sophomore utility Keenan Brigman 
tied for second with two runs each. 
On defense, redshirt junior pitcher Cameron Kurz recorded 6 strikeouts 
after just playing 2 innings. Redshirt 
junior catcher Michael Palos lead the 
the team with 9 outs.
Next week, the team plays against 
another conference rival, Cal State University Los Angeles, in a four-
game series: the first two played at 
home and the second two played on 
the road.
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduBY Wesley Xiao
Staff WriterIn the 17th version of the 
Harper Cup, No. 12 UC San Diego 
took down No. 21 San Diego State 
University, 6–5, to take the annual 
cup between the two sides. With a healthy attendance of 1,003 at the Canyonview Aquatic Center, the 
Tritons faithful made their voices 
heard on the evening. A tight match throughout, UCSD found a way to overcome the SDSU attack. 
The Tritons had a strong start to 
the game as freshman attacker Grace Pevehouse put in the opening goal in the first two minutes of play. From 
that point on, both teams struggled 
to get a goal as Pevehouse’s goal was 
the lone goal in the first quarter. 
UCSD seemed to have a grip on the game as it led by the one goal, but also looked strong defensively, not 
allowing many opportunities for 
SDSU. 
However, the momentum shi fted 
in the second quarter as a pair of 
mistakes from the Tritons put them 
behind in the match in a matter of minutes, 2–1. Going into the half with goals at a premium, it seemed that the next goal from either side 
would be a crucial one. The match was a tale of two 
halves in terms of the style of play — the first half was a defensive battle, 
but in the second it was back and 
forth action to the end. 
The Aztecs were able to get a 
third goal in the last minutes of 
the third quarter to create a bit of 
separation; However the Tritons had other plans as they answered back less than a minute later to close the 
gap, 3–2. Then, with only 30 seconds 
remaining, the Tritons put another 
goal in to go into the fourth with all the momentum with the score even at 3–3.  
UCSD carried their momentum into the fourth, crucially getting the first goal of the fourth to earn their 
first lead since the opening quarter. 
However, the lead did not last long, as on the next possession, the Aztecs got the goal back to level the match at 4–4. 
Once again, only a few minutes 
later, UCSD would go on to score. However, SDSU would come back and respond to keep the sides even. 
With only two minutes remaining, 
the score stood at 5–5. 
Junior attacker Shelby Stender, 
the hero for the Tritons, put in the game-winning goal with only 1:38 
left to play. This time, the Aztecs could not gasp one more goal.
With the win, the Tritons 
improved to 21–11 overall, making 
it their third-straight Harper Cup victory.
Next up for the Tritons is the 
Western Water Polo Association 
Championship, which will be held 
at the Canyonview Aquatic Center starting on Friday, April 27. 
daniel  hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSwomen's water poloTritons Win 
Harper Cup for 
Third Straight 
Year
UC San Diego improved to 21-11 overall 
after winning a thriller of a match over No. 21 
SDSU.
BY daniel  hernandez
senior Staff WriterUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
W Water Polo
Softball
Softball
Baseball6 PM
TBA 
1 PM3 PM6 PM4/264/274/274/274/27vs. Cal State LATBA (WWPA Championship)at Cal State Dominguez Hillsat Cal State Dominguez Hillsvs. Cal State LA