Roger Revelle College student Lok Tin Wang 
filed a lawsuit against UC San Diego and 
math professor James Dilts on Nov. 2, 
alleging that Wang was incorrectly held to have 
violated the university’s academic scholarship policy 
and that he was deprived of his right to due process 
at his Academic Integrity Review Board hearing. Sentenced to a $50 fine, academic integrity trainings, 
and disciplinary probation, Wang is petitioning the 
San Diego Superior Court to reverse the AIRB’s finding and is not seeking any financial damages.   
According to the lawsuit, the AIRB determined 
that it was more likely than not that Wang violated the Policy on Integrity of Scholarship, which sets the standard for what is considered “cheating, ” by 
using answers to homework sets in Dilts’ Math 
170A class during Winter Quarter 2018 that Dilts had previously posted online in another quarter. 
Wang contests this decision on the basis that he 
had already begun, but ultimately did not complete, Math 170A with Dilts in a prior quarter, and the 
problems assigned as homework were identical in 
both quarters.
Dilts admitted in an incident description 
that was presumably submitted to the Academic Integrity Office that he has “essentially used the same homework for several terms” and that he 
“posted [the homeworks] on the course website, but 
removed them at the end of the term. ”
Michael Richter, the attorney representing Wang, told the UCSD Guardian that Wang’s reference to the past materials posted online did not constitute 
cheating because “the instructor re-used the same 
homework, so the student [already] knew the answers. ” Richter also placed the blame for the 
incident on Dilts, stating that he was “too lazy to 
change the numbers. ”
Duc Trinh, a representative of Richter, expressed 
the same view of Dilts’ responsibility.
“ All he had to do is change one number, ” Trinh 
explained to the Guardian. “Change something in 
the problem. [He’s] a lazy professor. ”
Trinh further stated that after this initial lawsuit 
on the academic integrity violation is resolved, 
Wang plans to proceed with a defamation lawsuit 
against Dilts specifically. Defamation lawsuits allege 
that the defendant has made false statements about the plaintiff in such a way that damage the plaintiff ’s 
reputation. 
Although the majority of the court documentation 
on the lawsuit is dedicated to disputing the AIRB’s supposedly wrongful decision, the only argument 
made by Richter that is actually grounded in legal theory is the claim that Wang’s constitutional right 
to due process was violated at the AIRB hearing 
when the AIRB would not allow Richter to attend the hearing instead of Wang. 
“On October 5, 2018, a hearing was held with 
Several A.S. senators proposed 
doubling the stipends for senators 
from $20 to $40 during the Week five 
meeting without seeking feedback 
on the raise from the student body, 
but the measure was opposed by many of the other council members 
and ultimately voted down. The 
possibility of raising the stipends by $10 was brought up at the meeting 
to pass the summer budget, and a 
survey to distribute to students to gather input on the increase was created. However, the survey was never actually sent out and still has 
zero responses.
The main proponents for 
doubling stipends were Thurgood Marshall College A.S. Senator 
Brandon Milledge and Division of 
Arts and Humanities Senator Johnny 
Echavarria. Milledge ran on a platform of eliminating A.S. stipends 
entirely when he campaigned for his 
position during last year’s elections. 
According to Milledge, the 
executive branch requested the drafting of a survey to register student sentiments regarding the raise. Milledge alleges that while 
surveys distributed by A.S. Council 
do allow the representatives to make informed decisions about issues 
concerning students, this particular 
survey was intended as a mechanism 
by the executive members to stall the 
senators from raising stipends.
Milledge also said to the UCSD 
Guardian that the executives personally gain by not raising VOLUME 52, ISSUE 7  TUESDA Y , NOVEMBER 13, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC Librarians Bargain 
with University for New MOU Contracts
Librarians from throughout the UC system 
handed out materials and spoke about their 
wage disparities to passersbys outside Geisel. 
A.S. COUNCIL
BY Madeline leon
staff Writer
A.S. Senators Consider Doubling Stipends Without Student Input
What Hath God Wrought, the newest Stuart Collection piece, stands above the trees in Revelle Plaza. // UCSD GuardianA Bargaining Committee for Unit 
17 in the University Council American 
Federation of Teachers is currently in 
the process of negotiating for a fairer 
Memorandum of Understanding. The MOU is the contract between UC Office of the President and Unit 17 
of UC-AFT that explains employees’ 
salaries, abilities, and rights during an employment period. After a prevailing number of 11 bargaining sessions so far, librarians and faculty across the 
ten University of California campuses 
are meeting with UC negotiators in order to discuss amending a variety of 13 propositions presented by Unit 17’s 
Bargaining Committee.
UC-AFT is the union consisting 
of more than 3,000 faculty members 
and 300 librarians at the ten University of California campuses who strive 
for better wages, working conditions, 
and academic freedom rights. Unit 17 of UC-AFT is the sector specifically made of more than 350 librarians 
from these UC campuses. Through 
a Bargaining Committee that was created in October 2016, Unit 17 has been focused on improving their Memorandum of Understanding with UCOP .
The current MOU in debate 
originally went into effect on Oct. 1, 2013 and expired Sept. 30, 2018. With a total of 34 articles, seven appendices, and six side letters, the MOU is a list 
of contracts between UC-AFT and 
UCOP ranging from employee salary to holidays and sick leave.
Between October 2016 and 
February 2018, the Unit 17 Bargaining Committee curated a list of proposals to present to UCOP . On April 2, 2018, both UCOP and Unit 17 proposed their own amendments to the current 
MOU in attempts to negotiate a more 
agreeable contract.
The Bargaining Committee’s list 
of proposals represents areas of focus 
in the bargaining session, based on 
current articles in the current MOU. The proposals consist of a variety of issues including housing benefits, 
academic freedom, salary, corrective 
action, work arrangements, and professional development.
The Bargaining Committee 
presents these proposals to the UC 
system negotiation team in attempt 
to legally amend the articles for future Memorandums. 
“The goal of the Bargaining 
Committee is a fair contract for UC librarians that ensures adequate compensation and respect as academic appointees of the University of California, ” UC San Diego Supervisory 
Archivist Laurel McPhee said. “In 
this round of bargaining, our focus has been on securing academic By Lauren Hol t   Managing EditorCAMPUS
Student Sues UCSD Over Academic Integrity DecisionPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
The Trump 
administration has 
proposed changes to Title 
IX law in favor of a new 
campus sexual assault 
policy slated to do more 
harm than good.
BLINKY POLE
SDAFFA self-Aware  Statement 
Yearl y  Staple  In  asian  MediaOpinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “This was a perfect 
opening week for the 
Tritons as they go 2–0 
on the young season, 
having defeated a 
very tough Western 
Washington squad, 
which they may face 
again in the NCAA 
Tournament at the end 
of the year. ”TUESDAY
 H 77 L 52
THURSDAY
H 81 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 80 L 52
FRIDAY
H 77 L 53
LTE................................4
ASIAN FILMS................9
STRESSED OUT..........11
BEFORE I GO..............12
W. BASKETBALL.........15UC SYSTEM
Lucas Armstrong
 PAGE 15A handul of A.S. senators pushed a proposal to increase their own stipends without having distributed a necessary survey.
BY clarisse Vasquez
contributing writer
See STIPENDS,  page 3 See LIBRARIANS,  page 3See LAWSUIT,  page 3TITLE IX, TRUMP , AND 
SEXUAL ASSAULT
Features, page 6FOLDING FLOWERS By Michi Sora
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Why will no one shut the hell up?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin, Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 The Department of Defense 
awarded more than $3 million to 
a UC San Diego research team to treat military veterans who have a binge eating disorder. Led by UCSD 
Professor of Pediatrics and Psychiatry 
Dr. Kerri Boutelle, the team will study an alternative binge eating therapy method which combats binge eating and enhance weight loss. 
Those with the disorder have 
recurrent overeating episodes and a feeling of being out of control. This 
disorder gained attention in recent 
years as a result of the shortcomings of 
current treatment options. 
Traditional cognitive behavioral 
therapy, where patients are trained to change their thoughts surrounding binge eating to manage their behavior, has been e ffective in reducing binge 
eating but results in no weight loss for patients. Because of this, the UCSD 
research team is looking into a new 
method of treatment.
“We are focusing on two mechanisms of binge eating. One of them is food cue responsiveness, how much you pay attention to food, want to eat things, and can’t stop when you start eating, and satiety responsiveness, how much you feel full and can stop eating when full, ” Boutelle said. “We’ve developed a program called ROC, 
Regulation of Cues, which target those 
two mechanisms, and in our pilot data suggest that it reduces binge eating and weight at the same time. We use experiential exercises and it specifically targets those mechanisms. ”
The research is a joint e ffort between 
UCSD, the University of Minnesota, and V A San Diego Healthcare System; 
However, each member of the team 
will specialize in particular facets. To see whether the new therapy method makes a di fference compared 
to cognitive behavioral therapy, University of Minnesota Associate Professor of Psychiatry Dr. Carol Peterson will do comparative research on patients. By comparing the results 
from patients who went through 
traditional therapy to those who went through Boutelle’s new method, Peterson will ensure that Dr. Boutelle’s therapy is more successful than the cognitive behavior therapy. 
The final member of the team, V A 
San Diego Associate Chief of Sta ff for 
Mental Health Dr. Niloofar Afari, will work primarily on identifying and recruiting overweight veterans who 
may struggle with binge eating. 
“V A San Diego is a relatively large 
health care system with the main 
hospital facilities here in La Jolla, very close to the UCSD campus, and several very large out-patient clinics throughout San Diego county, ” Afari explains to UCSD. “Our plan for recruitment is to recruit veterans in 
primary care clinics and weight control 
clinics through flyers and advertising 
throughout V A San Diego. We will also contact a variety of primary care providers who see veterans on a regular basis. ”
The DOD would like to reduce 
both binge eating and obesity, because it costs the military over $2 million per 
year in absenteeism and medical costs. 
In the long run, if the new therapy method is successful, the DOD would be able to better address those already suffering from the disorder and help 
prevent other soldiers from developing it.  
“Hopefully what we can do is 
educate the public that there are individuals who are susceptible to developing these behaviors, ” Boutelle 
said. “It’s not something they did 
wrong, but they were genetically at risk to develop these behaviors and are reacting to the food environment today. ” 
The research project will span 
a time of approximately four years, with the first three years focused 
on recruitment, enrollment, and 
randomized trials. The final year will 
be dedicated to data analysis. 
Dr. Boutelle is con fident that her 
team will be able to complete the trials 
smoothly. Moreover, Dr. Afari believes that the research comes at an auspicious time when there is wide support for the project in the VA as well as the overall veteran community. 
UCSD Researchers Receive Defense Grant to Advance Binge Eating Treatment for Veterans
The team includes scientists from both the V A San Diego hospital on UCSD’s campus as well as doctors from the University of Minnesota.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
andrew Ha  ah1a@ucsd.edu
lauren hol t  lcholt@ucsd.eduBY andrew Ha
Contributing writer
the [AIRB], ” the lawsuit’s statement of facts reads. “ ...Michael P . Richter appeared on behalf of the Respondent after Petitioner emailed notice that he would be represented by counsel. 
However, the [AIRB] refused to allow 
Petitioner’s attorney to represent him in the hearing. The proceeding was heard without Petitioner or his attorney, in violation of Petitioner’s rights to due process. ”
Although Richter is claiming 
that the right to due process was violated because Wang was denied representation by an attorney, the minimum requirement for due process in matters with no criminal consequences, according to the U.S. Supreme Court, is notification and the right to be heard. 
According to Senior AVP of 
Student Advocacy Punita Patel, only representatives of the Office of Student Advocacy are allowed to accompany students to AIRB hearings, not outside attorneys.
“It is written into the policy, but 
I’m not sure if the Academic Integrity Office outright tells every student [that they cannot be represented by a lawyer], ” Patel told the Guardian. “Y ou can have a lawyer throughout the process, but you can’t bring them into the hearing. ”
After being informed that the Policy 
on Integrity of Scholarship clearly dictates that students may only use student advocates as representation, Richter stood by his claim that Wang’s right to an attorney was violated.
“First of all, who knows what those 
procedures are as a student, ” Richter said, suggesting that he plans to use W ang’s ignorance of the policies to back his argument. Richter also claimed that because W ang is “immature and doesn’t know what he’s doing” and is not a native English speaker, W ang should have been entitled to outside counsel.
The university has yet to 
file any kind of response with the court regarding the lawsuit. UCSD spokesperson Christine Clark declined to issue a statement on the lawsuit: “The university does not comment on 
pending litigation. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
Student’s Lawyer Stands By Initial Claims of  Violated Rights
▶ LAWSUIT , from page 1senator stipends, adding that 
“executives are the ones personally 
benefiting from a system that pays 
them disproportionately more. ”
A.S. President Kiara Gomez 
disputes several of Milledge’s allegations, particularly that the executive members were the ones 
who required the survey and that the 
executive members oppose increasing the senators’ stipends.
“I’m not sure what personal gain 
he is referring to, ” Gomez told the Guardian. “Originally his plan was to 
randomly raise senator stipends and 
then decrease executive stipends, so the conversation was then centered 
around why some students’ work 
compensation had to be at the expense of other folks’ compensation. ”
Gomez also noted that other A.S. 
senators called for the survey, which the executive supported.“[The executive] did not actually 
demand a survey, ” Gomez said. “That 
was the senators’ idea to do when 
this conversation was initially brought up in the spring meeting where we 
passed the summer budget. No one on 
executive suggested anything in that meeting, and we let the senators have 
the conversation between themselves 
in that meeting. In that meeting, they agreed to one another that they would 
reach out to their constituents to see if 
it would be ethical to raise their own stipends and to get the word out about 
this conversation to their networks. ”
Gomez added that the senators did 
not ultimately open up such a dialogue with their constituents, so when the 
motion to increase stipends came up during the Week 5 budget meeting, 
Vice President External Caroline 
Siegel-Singh simply reminded them of their prior commitment to transparency.
Although the motion before 
A.S. Council that was introduced by Echavarria was to literally increase the senator stipends, Milledge says that the 
intent of the motion was actually just 
to allow for a debate on the possibility and not to put the raise into action.
“The only way to really enter into 
a prolonged discussion that would allow us to actually debate like we 
wanted under our parliamentary 
procedure is to make a motion to actually raise the stipends, ” Milledge 
said. “Unfortunately, that gives the 
impression of an intent to pass it. At least, my intention was not to actually 
raise the stipends at the meeting. In 
fact, when it came to a vote, I voted against raising the stipends and so did 
most everyone else. ”
Milledge additionally explained 
that he informed the rest of the college senators in a group chat that the 
motion was for debate purposes only 
and not to pass the increase.
Gomez, who had not been 
informed by Milledge or any other senator that the motion was intended 
to allow for discussion, explained that there are other avenues under Robert’s 
Rules of Order, the procedures used 
in A.S. meetings, that Echavarria and Milledge could have used to start a 
discourse.
“When we need to have 
conversation or debates on topics, 
usually people will bring up the topics 
in other parts of the agenda that would allow for more discussion, such as 
a special presentation or something 
where the speaker could take questions or get on the speaker’s list in order 
to make a comment regarding the 
situation, ” Gomez said. “While there is no direct way to debate there are other ways to do so, and everyone knew ahead of time when the budget 
was happening and when exactly it 
was being passed, so there was time to prepare for that conversation and have 
it properly in Senate to discuss if that 
was the motive for the motion. ”
Milledge also claimed that the 
proposed increase in the motion was $20 to $30, but the motion in the most recent meeting was indeed to raise it to 
$40 instead.
www.fafsa.govUse  UCSD school code 001317. .
Use  UCSD school code 001317. www.C alDreamAct.orgStuden ts who are U.S. C itizens or P erm anent R esidents
can su bmit the FAFSA on line at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who ar e not eligible to  submit a FAFSA,
can subm it the Calif ornia Dr eam Ac t Applica tion at:OR
Note:  You will be asked to provide 2017 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2019-20 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
If you need assistance, please contact t he Financial Aid and Scholarships Off ice at ( 858) 534- 4480.REAPPLY  NOW
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or
California Dream Act Application is MARCH 2, 2019FOR F INANCI AL AID 2019-20
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Librarians Immediately Rejected UC’s CounterproposalA.S. Council Representatives T ell Different Accounts of  Stipend Saga
▶ LIBRARIANS , from page 1▶ STIPENDS , from page 1
clarisse v asquez  cpvazque@ucsd.edu
freedom, improving salaries to be 
more equitable with our peers at other universities,closing the salary gap 
with comparable campuses, ensuring 
adequate professional development support, and myriad other issues to strengthen our contract. ”
The UC administration has rejected 
several of their proposals regarding housing benefits, corrective action, and professional development. UC-AFT is currently waiting on the university’s 
responses pertaining to temporary 
appointments, new assignments, and family and medical leave. 
UC-AFT and UCOP are also 
working towards a salary proposition that is agreeable to both parties. The Bargaining Committee argues that librarians in the California State University system are paid 25.5 percent 
more than those in the UC system. 
Unit 17 argues that salaries should 
coincide with the United States annual 
inflation rate of 2.7 percent. 
In a blog post regarding fairer 
salaries, UC-AFT wrote, “ According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, that $21,000 minimum salary in 1977 is the equivalent today 
of over $90,000.[1] That is obviously 
no longer the minimum offered in UC librarian job descriptions. Our recruitments start at the Assistant 
level, for those without experience, 
at $49,000. For librarians with experience, recruitments often start at the Associate level, at $54,700. That’s over 30 percent less than this 1977 
posted salary. ”
According to a flyer that was 
handed out on the Nov. 2 Bargaining 
Session at the UCSD campus, the 
Bargaining Committee claims that due 
to the inflation rate, $21,000 in 1977 is equivalent to $54,000 in 1995. This 1995 salary number is close to the starting salary for librarians this year.  
The Unit 17 MOU depicts a 
minimum starting annual salary of $46,164 for Assistant Librarians. 
During the bargaining session on 
Nov. 2, UCOP presented a second-salary proposal. Though given a seven-day period to reject or accept this University of California’s counterproposal, the Bargaining 
Committee rejected the proposal that 
same day.
“[UCOP] essentially held their 
same position from prior bargaining 
sessions on all other articles, ” McPhee 
stated. 
According to the UC-AFT blog, 
UCOP’s counterproposal included a “4-year contract with a 3 percent 
raise 90 days after ratification, and an 
additional 3 percent raise on July 1st of 2019, 2020, and 2021. ” 
 “[The University of California’s] 
goal is to reach a long-term agreement with UC-AFT that recognizes the dedication and contributions of our hard-working librarians with fair pay, continued quality health benefits and 
excellent retirement benefits — and 
one that is supportive of their essential role, ” UCOP Director of Media Relations Claire Doan said.
The next bargaining session has 
not been announced. See UC-AFT’s timeline and overview of the previous bargaining sessions here. 
madeline leon  m5leon@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINION
On May 24, 1844, Samuel Morse sent the world’s first telegraph message to 
a friend in Baltimore, Maryland. A mere four words signaled the dawn of the coming technological age: “What hath God wrought?” Morse chose 
this message as a direct reference to the Bible’s Book of Numbers, referring to the Israelites’ destiny to inherit the holy land. In the century that bound the promised land of the United States together by a railroad waistband, it probably seemed as though the future would continue to bring people closer together through the rise 
of technology and modernization. Nearly 200 years later, Samuel Morse perhaps 
could not have anticipated just how distant we’ve become.
The most recent installation by the Stuart Collection has been gathering a lot 
of attention, as well as mixed reactions. “What Hath God Wrought” stands at over 190 feet tall, making it the tallest structure on campus. It’s a colossal, bland-
looking metal monolith that blinks its title in Morse code from a light at the top. 
The Collection declared it a testament to technological achievements, and others think that the new piece in Roger Revelle College is either overly simplistic or just ironic. With a name like “What Hath God Wrought,” the first impression 
people might get, much like I did, is “What have we done?” and “Why did we 
bring this into the world?” You might even be vaguely reminded of the infamous phrase describing the Hindenburg disaster, “Oh, the humanity!” And yet, perhaps no other piece on campus truly encapsulates the current state of the school than “What Hath God Wrought.” 
Looking at it from the base, it’s easy to understand why many people find it 
difficult to appreciate the work. It appears as nothing more than an industrial-looking metal pole that stretches up to the heavens and blinks. Aesthetically, it doesn’t seem to stand out too much from the washed-out brutalist style of the 
neighboring buildings. From a distance, however, this piece takes on a different 
connotation. 
For miles, you can see the light peeking up over the rooftops of the university, 
flashing its message of dismay. To incoming students, it may seem like a lighthouse shining out a distress signal in the night, averting young minds away from the 
stormy waters and rocky shores of financial debt, heightened anxiety, and social 
alienation. 
Alternatively, from the titular reference to the advent of communicative technology with a religious undertone, one could infer that this pole acts symbolically like a modern-day tower of Babel, if not for the sheer magnitude of the installation. We live in a time in which telephones doubling as supercomputers 
fit in our pockets. With the rapid evolution of communication and information 
just over the past decade alone, we’re perhaps closer to touching the heavens than we’ve ever been before. And yet, like speaking in different tongues, we can’t help but feel a deep-seated disconnect between ourselves and the people immediately 
surrounding us. This isolation should be especially evident at a school aptly 
nicknamed for its “socially dead” atmosphere.
Take a brisk stroll down Library Walk at virtually any time during the day, and 
there will be no shortage of examples of this. You won’t be able to go five minutes without someone nearly ramming into others because they can’t be bothered to 
look up from their phones. Student organization rushes consistently struggle to 
draw people in when a good portion of their potential audience is blocking out the world with headphones. 
We attend a world-renowned research university that still struggles to respond 
to the very valid concerns of its massive student body. The school continues to over-admit students and overcrowd the dorms, while also forcing people to move off-campus. They certainly haven’t improved the quality of our meal plans, and food insecurity is an issue that affects a number of students. Parking is a pervasive issue that needs no elaboration. Even as we recognize the shortcomings of the 
university and its administrators, we largely take to a virtual soapbox to voice our 
discontent. Sharing memes and huddling together in the social simulacrum for ideological warmth hasn’t won us any battles. Like Dr. Frankenstein horrified by his own creation, contemporary thinkers and scholars are at odds with their own 
school. And yet, even in a time in which communication is easier than ever, we 
can’t seem to effectively get the point across.
A testament to the folly of human achievement, “What Hath God Wrought” is 
the perfect summation of this school’s various successes and the shortcomings that keep pace with them. Students flock from around the world to a supposed school 
of flowing milk and honey, only to find that it’s not all what they envisioned. 
“What Hath God Wrought” might be the Stuart Collection’s most self-aware piece to date. Its message is vexed, nuanced, sublime, and brilliant.
On September 17 our darling Welsh Corgi 
fluff, Katie, lost her long battle with cancer. 
She was a fighter and she kept her vivacious 
personality until she passed away.
When we saw Katie’s picture on the front 
page of the October 15 issue of the Guardian 
we were overwhelmed by the understanding 
of how much Katie had been loved on campus. Then we saw the beautiful memorial that had been erected next to the Sun God!
We wish to thank everyone on campus ― 
students, staff, faculty, vendors ― for their 
kindness to our corgis ― and especially for 
your expressions of sympathy and grief after 
Katie’s passing.
So, THANK YOU!Letter to the Editor
Thank You to the UCSD GuardianBy Tyler Faurot // Contributing Writer
From Puck, Deni & Gary DavidAbandon All Hope, Ye Who Enter Here: 
Why “What God Hath Wrought” is a 
Perfect Fit for UCSD
SYSTEM32
By Anonymous
PHOTO BY GARY DAVIDOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 FEATURESfeatures@ucsdguardian.org
 
To notable effect, the past year of the #MeToo movement has 
spurred a nationwide reckoning with sexual misconduct. Yet, 
despite increased efforts to build a system against sexual assault 
and harassment, perpetrators continuously fail to be held responsible for 
their actions. Many are even able to retain their positions of power with 
little consequence— just look at Brett Kavanaugh or Donald Trump, men 
credibly accused of sexual assault, who continue to determine policies impacting us as students at a public university. This is especially troubling 
because the Trump administration has made it a priority to roll back 
protections on campus sexual assault by changing Title IX. 
Passed as a followup to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, Title 
IX is one of the Education 
Amendments of 1972 that prohibits gender 
discrimination in federally 
funded schools:
 No person in the United 
States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied 
the benefits of, or be subjected 
to discrimination under any 
education program or activity 
receiving Federal financial assistance.
While it’s a short law, 
Title IX covers all forms of gender-based discrimination 
— which includes sexual 
violence and sexual harassment — and can apply to anything from academics to athletics. 
The Obama Administration undertook extensive efforts to enforce 
Title IX, releasing a Dear Colleague letter in 2011 that specifically defined Title IX standards. As long as a complainant made a report, it 
held universities responsible to investigate the case if the victim and/or 
respondent were affiliated with the university. It additionally proposed the ‘preponderance of evidence’ standard (51 percent “more likely than 
not” certainty that the accused is responsible) as the evidentiary standard 
institutions would impose when investigating adjudicating. And in the resolution process, mediation and cross-examination were prohibited, 
meaning that the accuser and the accused were not required to have any 
direct face-to-face interaction.
The Department of Education under President Trump has proposed detrimental changes to the Title IX policy. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is withdrawing the Dear Colleague Letter because she believes the 
Obama-era Title IX policy favors the victim and denies due process to 
the accused. 
One of the most significant changes will require each campus to 
choose its own evidentiary standard. Right now, the UC system uses the ‘preponderance of the evidence’ standard (51% “more likely than not” certainty that the accused is responsible) of Obama’s Dear Colleague 
letter, but DeVos favors other evidentiary standards, such as the ‘clear and 
convincing’ standard (100% “beyond reasonable doubt” certainty that the accused is responsible), that require higher standards of proof.   
“Basically, [these other 
evidentiary standards] mean that the accused is innocent until proven 
guilty — which is very unfair 
for victims and places an undue burden on survivors for having to 
advocate for themselves and doesn’t 
give each testimony equal weight, ” senior Annie Park, UC San Diego’s 
undergraduate representative on the 
Title IX Student Advisory Board, said. “That’s a big problem that a lot 
of victim’s rights testimonies have 
with the proposed guidances. ”
In addition, universities will 
only be responsible for addressing on-campus incidents and cases 
that occur within the university 
programs. 
“This very much narrows 
university jurisdiction over sexual 
violence and sexual harassment, ” Park asserted. “There’s no accountability for universities addressing off-campus cases, which really narrows 
holding perpetrators responsible because so much happens off campus — 
at off-campus parties, apartments, etc. ” 
Again in contrast to the Obama-era guidelines, the Trump-era 
guidelines allow for cross-examination and mediation between the accuser and the accused. The law thus openly provides an opportunity for the use of intimidation tactics and for the possibility of further 
traumatizing the victim.
Most importantly, the Trump administration is narrowing the 
definition of sexual harassment:The Trump 
administration 
has proposed 
changes to Title IX law in favor of a new campus 
sexual assault 
policy slated to do 
more harm than good.
By Lara Sanli // Senior Sta ff 
WriterTitle  IX,  Trump,  and  Campus 
Sexual  Assaul t
PHOTO COURTESY BY DENISE NEVINS
SeeSEXUAL ASSAULT , page 7
“Basically, [these other evidentiary 
standards] mean that the accused is innocent 
until proven guilty — which is very unfair for victims and places an undue burden on survivors for having to advocate for themselves and doesn’t give each testimony equal weight, ” senior Annie Park, UC San Diego’s undergraduate representative on the Title IX Student Advisory Board, said. “That’s a big problem that a lot of victim’s rights testimonies have with the proposed guidances. ”6                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 3 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  FEATURESLara Sanli   lsanli@ucsd.eduObama administration’s definition: “unwelcome conduct of a sexual 
nature, ” that includes “unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual 
favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual 
nature. ”
Trump administrations’ definition: “unwelcome conduct on the 
basis of sex that is so severe, pervasive and objectively offensive that it denies a person access to the school’s education program or activity. ”
“How do you define something as offensive in an objective way?” Park 
asked, expressing outrage over the Trump administration’s definition. “It really makes no sense, this entire policy is just very contradictory 
of itself. This would mean that incidents of sexual harassment a victim 
might deem offensive would not be covered as sexual harassment by the law. ” 
Trump’s definition gives universities extra room to ignore certain 
cases that might not match this vague consideration of sexual harassment. This will increase hesitancy to report and make victims 
less likely to come forward. 
In response to these policies, the Title IX Student Advisory Board 
wrote a letter of opposition to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which is currently reviewing the proposed regulations. Should 
the OMB accept the regulations, Trump would be next in line to approve it — Congressional approval is not required. But considering 
Trump’s attitude towards sexual harassment, it is highly likely that these 
Title IX changes will be implemented.
No matter what happens, however, the University of California plans 
to uphold a fair and equitable sexual harassment policy. While the legality of a public university circumventing certain aspects of federal law is questionable, President Janet Napolitano has asserted that the UC 
system will prioritize the rights of its students. 
“In general, the UC system is fairly progressive on sexual violence/
sexual harassment cases, ” Park said. “With the decision to rescind the Dear Colleague letter, President Napolitano released a statement saying 
we’re not going to change the way we treat sexual violence/sexual harassment. ”
Last January, after a federal investigation conducted by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) found UC Berkeley in violation of Title IX policies, the UC system created the 
Title IX Student Advisory Board. The systemwide Title IX office under 
Napolitano has since worked to revise the UC Policy on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment in order to ensure that Title IX is successfully 
followed. 
Despite the positive implications of the university’s improved legal 
response to sexual assault, students still have a lot to learn when it 
comes to addressing harassment. Park believes the culture of science, 
technology, engineering, and math at UCSD generally causes students 
to put issues of social justice on the back burner whereas students at 
other universities might prioritize them. 
“Students should be more informed not just about isolated cases, 
but also policy and federal policy, ” Park said. “I think it’s important that students are familiar with the UC policy, with the adjudication model, with federal policies, and with the different offices we have on 
campuses. A lot of students aren’t aware that we have a Title IX office 
or a [Cognitive Assessment and Risk Evaluation] office, but I just hope that in the future there’s more awareness generated about Title IX and 
these policies. ” 
And although cultural attitudes towards sexual harassment have 
improved with the #MeToo movement and the increased social progressiveness of our time, sexual harassment, unfortunately, remains 
a stigmatized and misunderstood issue. Especially considering current media coverage, it’s important that victims aren’t reduced to their 
trauma, that these instances of assault should not define them.  
“I wish students would understand that especially in the past 
few years sexual violence and sexual harassment has been really sensationalized, ” Park said. “The Kavanaugh confirmation, the details 
of Ford’s testimony have been blasted out to everyone and it’s become sort of a media sensation. I think it’s important to understand that 
sexual violence and sexual harassment is a very real and personal issue 
and not just one of a media story or something to gossip about — it’s something that affects a lot of people’s lives in various ways. ”▶ SEXUAL ASSAULT , from page 6
@UCSDGUARDIANfac eb o o kFIND US ONFEATURES      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. Look for 
our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more details about the 
world-class care happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com.A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“Sunset in My Hometown” stars disgruntled Kim Hak-Soo (Park Jung-Min); he’s an underdog, to say the least. 
He has auditioned season a fter season on “Show Me The Money, ” a competition show for up-and-coming rappers, 
and inevitably loses by the third round each time. Worst of all, he’s edited out of the program entirely. Nevertheless, 
Kim tries again for the sixth season, but in doing so, something unexpected happens. His estranged father lands 
himself in the hospital a fter a stroke, which means that Kim is momentarily forced to put his rap dreams on hold. 
Kim begrudgingly returns to his hometown of Byeonsan, South Korea to help nurse his father back to health. He hasn’t been back in Byeonsan since he dropped out of high school, and yet he is met with more problems as his past 
collides with the present. However, as Kim and the audience come to realize, it’s by confronting the place he once left  
that Kim is able to move forward in both his life and his blossoming rap career.
When Kim remembers his past through every encounter with a former classmate, so does the audience through 
well-timed flashbacks. “Sunset in My Hometown” does a fantastic job of seamlessly flitting from scene to scene, 
mixing together past and present to tell a comical, yet ultimately heartwarming tale. Together, Kim and the audience relive embarassing high school confessions of love and almost every awkward conversation. While Kim isn’t 
particularly expressive, it’s through these glimpses of his high school days and scenes of his impassioned endeavors on “Show Me The Money” that reveal who Kim once was and who he is now. Everything the audience needs to know 
about what Kim is truly thinking is revealed by his deeply personal lyrics, expertly demonstrated by director Lee 
Joon-Ik remarkable ability to highlight this aspect of the film. 
“Sunset on My Hometown” is about more than Kim’s potential rap career; it is about every character involved. The 
film managed to have the audience care for each and every person, no matter how minor their role, by interweaving 
memories into the present storyline. Most of all, the cast’s genuine, emotional performances rendered the film 
impactful. Particularly, Park Jung-Min’s powerful acting allowed the character of Kim to develop from a stando ffish 
protagonist to one that the audience could connect with and admire. Through every twist and turn, the audience 
can’t help but root for Kim from start to finish. 
—   Jahfreen  Alam
Editorial AssistantSunset  in  My  Hometown
Directed  by  Lee  Joon-Ik
san  diego  asian  
film  festival
The San Diego Asian Film Festival returns this November 4-17 for its 18th year. One of the 
largest Asian Film Festivals in the United States, this year includes a vast array of movies from both independent and renowned filmmakers. Here are the Guardian Arts and Entertainment 
staff’s reviews of some of the films highlighted in this year’s festival. For more information or 
tickets to screenings of these films, visit sdaff.org.  
Director Shinya Tsukamoto earned cult status through producing some of 
the most bizarre works of Japanese horror with such films as “Tetsuo: The Iron 
Man” and “Bullet Ballet. ” However, his recent return to the screen with his latest 
film “Killing, ” a woozy, genre-bending attempt at the samurai film, presents a 
weak turn for the famed director. Screened as a part of the San Diego Asian 
Film Festival’s Masters circuit, the film follows a young ronin, or masterless 
samurai, named Tsuzuki (Sosuke Itematsu) who struggles with his inability to 
kill  when Sawamura (Tsukamoto), another ronin, recruits him to serve the 
new shogun.
Taking clear inspiration from legendary director Akira Kurosawa, 
“Killing” is a beautifully shot portrait of the Japanese countryside, employing Tsukamoto’s shaky, handheld camera shots of windblown treetops and the rural 
mountainscape. The film’s centerpiece action scenes, suitably accompanied by 
the late Chu Ishikawa’s final and fantastic score, are intensely fast-paced and 
wonderfully choreographed, even culminating in one of the coolest lines in 
recent action fi lm memory.
While “Killing” sets itself up to be narratively epic, it instead proves to be 
quite lacking, choosing to focus on a confrontation with a band of bandits rather than Sawamura’s proposed quest. “Killing” attempts to reconcile its lack of narrative motivation through Tsuzuki’s struggles to prove himself as a samurai and commit to the act of taking another’s life. This would be forgivable 
if the film’s anti-violence themes were attempted upon characters who were 
given proper development as people for the viewer to be sympathetic to. Poor characterization aside , the film’s themes are ironically reliant on the rape of 
the female protagonist (Yu Aoi) in an excessively voyeuristic manner that frankly felt like torture porn. Despite its exquisite cinematic style, Tsukamoto’s 
intentions for his film to be a critique of modern Japan instead result in an 
uninspired, misogynistic mess, overwrought with moralistic sentimentality. 
—   Justin  Nguyen
Contributing WriterDirected  by  
Shinya  TsukamotoKillingPHOTO BY ASIANWIKI PHOTO BY IMDB10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 3 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
“How Long Will I Love U, ” a 2018 Chinese time-travel romantic comedy, tells the story of a man and 
woman who occupy the same apartment but live in timelines nearly 20 years apart. Gu Xiaojiao (Tong 
Liya) and Lu Ming (Lei Jiayin) are forced to live together a fter their apartments combine along with their 
respective timelines. Gu, from 2018, needs money to buy back her childhood mansion. Lu, from 1999, needs money in order to advance his career in architectural design. The two eventually become friends, 
and together they plot to cheat in a 1999 lottery by looking for the winning numbers in 2018. However, the two soon find that the rules of time travel between the two time periods are not as flexible as they 
may seem. 
The film is a refreshingly funny and genuinely enjoyable representation of how all individuals’ lives 
are connected. It is touching in the sweet and playful chemistry between Gu and Lu, while the plot development remains creative and surprising. Despite some initial confusion regarding minor characters’ roles in the scheme of the film, the lovely cinematography and unique handling of the plot’s main concept 
more than makeup for it. By the end of the film, the story is made fully clear and is beautifully concluded. 
“How Long Will I Love U” leaves audiences both satis fied and thoughtful. 
—   Laura  Hatanaka
Contributing WriterDirected  by  Su Lun
A brilliant and inventive horror-comedy, “One Cut of the Dead” is about a film crew — 
consisting of an unknown actor and actress, a cut-throat makeup artist, and a deranged director 
— scraping together a low-budget zombie flick. However, when a real zombie invasion hits, the 
director keeps the camera rolling, capturing the raw fear and footage for his cinematic piece 
while everyone else perilously fends for their lives. 
Several notable movies like “Zombieland” and “Shaun of the Dead” come to mind when 
“zombie-comedies” are mentioned. A fter its screening, “One Cut of the Dead” can deservedly 
be crowned a top-tier and innovative film in this popular “living dead” genre. The hidden details 
merit a rewatching. They initially seem purposeless but are actually meticulously cra fted with 
impressively humorous intentions. “One Cut of the Dead” goes beyond expectations with its out-and-out hilarity, setting up long-running jokes that culminate to a satisfying punchline. It’s 
also best watched without knowing too much, for there are particular oddities and unexpected 
twists that come full circle, making complete and hysterical sense at the end. 
Being a “zomedy, ” the film does have gore and decay, but it more so celebrates the tenacious 
and bustling process of filmmaking. The characters go through quite a rough and bloody patch, 
but they still soldier on when things look hopeless on the production set. “One Cut of the Dead” 
truly adds a new spark and inspiration to the old, platitudinous show-business saying: The show 
must go on.
—   Ashley  Chen
Senior Staff WriterCathy Yan makes her directorial debut with her whimsical yet earnest film “Dead Pigs, ” 
narrating the interconnected tales of five individuals during a sudden swine epidemic in 
Shanghai. With his life’s work down the drain, Old Wang (Haoyu Yang), a pig farmer, falls into heavy debt and ends up tossing his pig carcasses down a river. His predicament catalyzes the 
film as we are introduced to the other characters — a sharp-tongued salon owner, a diligent 
architect, a mousy busboy, and a discontented rich girl — who struggle with their own plights in the midst of this outbreak. 
“Dead Pigs” is not only centered on pig-infested waters, but also on the timely, rapid 
modernization in China. The film is embedded with themes of class hierarchy and 
industrialization, and we see the characters adapt and come to terms with these uncontrollable changes and inequalities. It subliminally comments on the economic gap between citizens, since certain characters are penniless while others are a ffluent. There is also a battle between 
“traditional” and “modern, ” as some characters fight against urban development yearning for a 
nostalgic past, while others advocate for modern advancements looking toward the opportune future. 
Most of the film’s captivating cinematography highlights the solemn half of this story. Run-
down, agrarian streets juxtapose the fluorescent night scenes at luxurious, urban restaurants. 
This reinforces the aforementioned duality of “old” versus “new. ” One distinctive image is a 
demolished rural land with only a dilapidated, turquoise house, showing the destructive state of modernization, but o ffering a tint of greenish-blue that suggests heartwarming optimism. 
Paralleling that glimpse of bright color, “Dead Pigs” is also peppered with niche humor to 
spotlight its sanguine mood. Supported by an eclectic ensemble cast, the movie is ripe with distinctive and memorable personalities that band together in trying times. It is ultimately a movie about reconciliation, chronicling how familial love and support can greatly outweigh unhappy realities.
—   Ashley  Chen
Senior Staff Writer
One  Cut  of  the  DeadDead  Pigs
Directed  by  Shinichirou  Ueda Directed  by  Cathy Yan
Draped in lush green forests and swathed in a so ft brown color scheme, “ The Third Wife” follows a 
14-year-old girl’s arranged marriage and pregnancy in 19th century Vietnam. Both the film and its main 
character, May (Nguyen Phuong Tra My), are depicted in ways that are quiet, pretty, and modest. We 
watch May go about her everyday tasks — obeying the wishes of her elders and trying for a male child. 
She performs all of these with few words and virtually no complaints, seemingly the dutiful wife with the “ideal” life. However, no one notices that in her countless silent, shaky looks liess an unmistakable inner turmoil.
But a glimpse into the ongoings of others, such as the other wives of May’s husband, reveals that she 
is not alone in the con fines of societal expectations. The unspoken torment of miscarriages, arranged 
marriages, a ffairs, and questioning sexuality pervade the private lives of the women and girls around her. 
Over the slow-moving course of the movie, unfortunate yet historically common events build upon each other until May reaches her breaking point.
While such practices in a patriarchal culture centered around family honor might seem pitiful and 
archaic to an American audience, director Ash Mayfair handles these controversial subjects in the most intimate and sensual ways. Her deliberate restraint on the pacing, acting, and even cinematography 
makes for a film that could have otherwise been an overdramatic and alienating story. But Mayfair’s 
subtle approach creates a directorial debut that is staunchly ripe and relevant today. While “ The Third 
Wife” may appear unassuming at first, May ultimately tells a story that’s worth listening to.
—   Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff WriterDirected  by  Ash  Mayfair
How  Long  Will  I  Love  U
“Fiction and Other Realities” is a 2018 drama about Bobby Choy (Bobby Choy), a young, aspiring 
musician who lives in New Y ork, but currently works at a call company. Unsatis fied with his life there, 
and feeling like an outsider as a Korean-American in a predominately white society, he decides to travel 
to Seoul, South Korea with a friend’s band. There, Bobby feels at home and accepted, especially a fter 
befriending fellow musician Ina (Hwa-Y oung Im), . However, when the two form a musical duo and land 
an opening act with a major band, Ina’s obligation to pursue graduate school interferes.
This film is simultaneously heartwarming and realistic in its portrayal of how music can bring 
people together. The characters are believable and emotional, with problems and conversations that 
feel authentic. Particularly poignant is a phone call between Bobby and his mother (Sandy Lee) as they reminisce about his late father. However, there are moments in the film’s styling that are perhaps 
inconsistent with the tempo and appearance of its overall cinematography and sound editing. Despite this, it accomplishes its perceived goal of a so ft-spoken re flection of both the Asian-American experience 
and the raw importance of the relationships in our lives.
—   Laura  Hatanaka
Contributing WriterFiction  &  Other  Realities
Directed  by  Bobby  Choy  &  
Steve  LeeThe Third Wife
PHOTO BY CAAMFESTPHOTO BY REGMOVIESPHOTO BY VARIETY
PHOTO BY IMDB
PHOTO BY VARIETYLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
November means that winter is fast approaching and we’re 
looking for every excuse to buy a pumpkin spice latte before the 
coveted autumn season is over. We’re a little more than halfway 
through the quarter and it’s only the anticipation of Thanksgiving 
and the holiday season that’s getting us through midterms and 
powering us through sickness. If you’re itching to get off campus, 
here are some events that will let you experience all that San 
Diego has to offer this month. 
Eat your midterm worries away at the San Diego Bay Wine 
and Food Festival . In this eight-day extravaganza starting Nov. 
11, local and international talent come together for the largest 
wine and culinary event on the West Coast. Though some of the 
events, like truffle rolling and celebrity chef tastings, are a bit on 
the pricier end, foodies might find the experience worth it. If 
you’re interested in culinary arts or just want to be around the 
action, the event is also open to volunteers. 
You don’t need to go far for live theatre. This month, three 
plays open on our very own campus: Mother Courage and Her 
Children  o n  N o v .  1 6 . ,  Our Town  o n  N o v .  2 7 ,  a n d  A Beautiful 
Day in November on the Banks of the Greatest of the Great Lakes  on Nov. 30. UC San Diego students can get discounted $10 
tickets with their student ID. 
In need of some fluffy therapy? On Nov. 17, Liberty Station 
will be filled with puppers and doggos alike for the Doggie Street Festival . The event brings together the entire San Diego rescue 
community for a massive cat and dog adopt-a-thon and educates attendees about responsible adoption and pet health. Head here 
to find the perfect cuddly companion or just to pet some pups. 
Start your holiday shopping at the San Diego Made Holiday 
Market  on Nov. 18. Grab some coffee or tea at the bar before 
browsing products from over 75 local creators and making DIY flower crowns and gift tags. There is also a free raffle and the first 
100 guests at the event will score a swag bag, so get there early! 
Head to El Cajon on Nov. 18 for the annual Mother Goose 
Parade . Aside from being a fun community event, parade 
participants educate the public by “depicting the promotion 
of arts, culture, heritage or science, advancement of human 
rights, literacy and education, religion, community development, 
environment protection or improvement. ” 
Get some exercise in before Thanksgiving dinner with 
Father Joe’s Villages Thanksgiving Day 5K . After a run around 
downtown San Diego, enjoy the dog-friendly race festival, which features a costume contest, live music, homemade pies and other vendors, and a beer garden. The Oceanside Turkey Trot , also 
on Nov. 22, is another option if you prefer the beach as your backdrop. Both events raise money for communities in need in 
and around San Diego.
With midterm season in full swing, worry has taken over 
campus like a plague. Although stress is a necessary biological function, it can cause more harm than good. Here are some tips 
to get some much-needed relief.
Feed your body with good, healthy foods. Yes, this may be 
obvious, but eating foods that are good for you makes a great difference. Something I like to do is drink a green juice. It packs 
a lot of healthy fruits and vegetables in a quick and easy blend. 
An on-campus favorite of mine is the Tioga Pass Smoothie from 
Roots. A good off-campus option is the juices at Pressed Juicery. 
Taking vitamins is also another way of getting those nutrients 
in. There are even vitamins made for stress relief, such as Olly’s 
Goodbye Stress vitamins.
Find an outlet. Everyone releases their energy and emotions 
in different ways. When I’m stressed out I like to take a step back, rest, and call my friends and family. Other outlets can 
be exercising, journaling, playing an instrument, drawing, or 
painting. Confiding in friends or a therapist is also very healthy 
and can significantly help in unpacking and releasing stress.
Put yourself in a good mindset. Simple things can make such 
a big difference anyday. I try to put myself in a good mood by 
listening to Ariana Grande and getting a green juice before going to class. Waking up in time to get ready — calmly, and not in a 
rush — makes the rest of the day seem easier, too. Another mood 
booster is meditation. It can calm or energize the mind. It only 
takes a few minutes out of the day to do, but it can make a major difference. A meditation app I like is Headspace.
Be responsible. Keep up with your work and responsibilities 
to avoid stress in the future. It is easier said than done, but it 
makes a big difference. Studying and doing homework in a timely fashion is a lot less stressful than waiting until the last minute. It 
can also be a lot simpler! For example, doing laundry on a regular 
schedule or picking out your outfit the night before can make life  
much easier.
Avoid triggers. If you know what stresses you out and it can be 
avoided, then avoid it or try to resolve it. If your roommate gets 
ready loudly in the morning, ask if he, she, or they could be a bit 
quieter. Stand up for yourself and your needs.
Find your passion. Passion is what makes life worth living. 
Doing things you are passionate about makes you happier and is a break from the boredom of everyday responsibilities. Find an 
organization or club that can allow you to explore an interest of 
yours, whether it be music, volunteering, or sports.
Rest and relax. Put things into perspective and think big 
picture. Ask yourself if this current stressful situation will matter 
in the future. If it does, then put it in perspective and adjust plans 
for the future while keeping in mind that things will turn out 
okay. Then, relax. Watch TV , read a book, drink hot tea, and get a decent amount of sleep.
I hope these tips help you all during this very stressful 
midterm season and into finals season. Just keep breathing and 
remember that everything will be okay.P eeks and Previews:
November
Stressed Outby Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor
by Natasha Vandamme // Lifestyle Staff Writer
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 3 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
While I am currently a third year, I feel that due to the limitations of 
living on campus and the anxiety of being in a new environment, I have not 
fully enjoyed the college experience. For me, the college experience is the 
excitement of wanting to explore a new place and reinventing myself. Due to 
many major life changes, I have been learning so much more about myself, which inadvertently led me to realize all the things I haven’t tried yet. Here 
are some of the things that are on my college bucket list that I hope to do in 
the next two years:
Go to Convoy Street
I’m not sure how, but I just never knew where or what exactly Convoy was 
until recently. I had always thought it was an actual store so I never could find it online. The worst part of this is that I have ordered takeout from several 
places on Convoy but never realized what that’s where the majority of UC San 
Diego students spend the weekend! As such, I need to actually go next time I’m free and when I have a late night craving for some Chinese food.
Go to Black’s Beach
Part of the reason I have never been is due to my reservations about going 
to a nudist beach. While I respect people who are confident enough to go 
commando, I don’t think I’ll ever be comfortable letting everything hang 
loose myself. This is one of those trips that definitely will put me out of my comfort zone but I will have a great story to tell afterward.
Learn to dance … normally
Those of you who know me in person know that I am 5 feet 10 inches 
of pure awkwardness. Naturally, anything that involves coordination, more 
specifically dancing, is not something I actively seek out. I’ve always thought 
it would be fun to learn so one day I will gather enough courage to go to one of those “Salsa On The Beach” events.
Visit all the pieces in the Stuart Collection
After the mysterious appearance of the blinking light in Roger Revelle 
College, I realized I haven’t seen a lot of the cool art around campus. While I have seen some of the pieces, including the ones that have been removed (rest in peace, Big Red Chair), I have yet to venture to other parts of campus, 
including the Warren Bear and the Wind Garden. I have also never been 
inside the Fallen Star, so I have to go and take aesthetic photos for Instagram.
Do Coffee-With-a-Prof
I always forget about this program, so by the time I remember to get the 
voucher, they are almost always all gone. I feel like I missed out on making so 
many connections with professors because I was always too shy or nervous to talk to them in a more casual setting. This year, I plan to be more confident 
and already have so many professors in mind. I can’t wait to get to know them 
better and build lasting connections.
Stay until the end of Sun God Festival
Last year, I went to Sun God, grabbed as much free stuff as possible, 
and went home. While I technically had the Sun God experience, I want to actually stay for the music and visit both stages. Hopefully the line-up this 
year is enticing enough for me to stay.
Pull an all-nighter in Geisel Library
While I have pulled all-nighters before, I usually try to avoid Geisel like 
the plague. Every time I walk into the second floor, I can feel the sadness 
and suffering of my fellow Tritons and get second-hand anxiety. However, I hear of the wonderfully delirious things that happen in Geisel after hours, 
including people rolling on the floor in onesies and spontaneous screaming. 
Clearly I am missing out, and I plan to head to the second floor before my next midterm.
I can’t promise that I’ll do everything on this little bucket list because I 
tend to be hesitant about trying new things. But I can assure you that I will be throwing myself out more often. Living off campus has given me a new 
perspective on college, as there is more to life than constantly studying for 
midterms. The renewed sense of freedom is allowing me to be more open-minded and a little less “UC Socially Dead” .Before I Go
by Natalie Duprey // Lifestyle Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
HULLABALOO feat. SABATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 13 - NOV 18
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & 
SALT AT HOME PLATE 
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at 
Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while 
attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
5pm
THE SHAPING OF A GLOBAL CITIZEN 
- GLOBAL FORUM X ISSA - THE GREAT HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
ERC Provost Ivan Evans, GPS professor Nancy 
Gilson, and student speaker Alex Gunn will be 
speaking about what it means to act on a global 
scale and what they have been doing to further 
this mindset. Representatives from numerous 
student organizations will attend to provide 
opportunities to explore global citizenship through various lenses including health, 
government, and business. Contact: 
ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu 
7pm
WEDS@7 RED FISH BLUE FISH: 
CIRCLES - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL 
Featuring Luciano Berio's masterwork, Circles 
with percussionists Steve Schick and Sean 
Dowgray, soprano Susan Narucki, and harpist 
Tasha Smith Godinez . This program will also include the world premiere piece Vakovakya by Composer/Sound Designer Shahrokh Yadegari for red fish blue fish and the Persian hand drum master Milad Jahadi. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS MARIA DE 
BARROS - THE LOFT
An invitation into the musical realm of Maria de 
Barros calls for an intriguing geography lesson. The charismatic young chanteuse is a native of Dakar, Senegal, and lived the first 13 years of her life in Nouakchott, Mauritania, in Northwest Africa. De Barross creative heart, however, lies in the culturally rich land of Cabo Verde, a former Portuguese colony located 350 miles off the coast of Senegal, the birthplace of her parents and her godmother, Cesria vora, also known as the barefoot diva. Its the islands incredible melting pot of music which includes everything from African and Portuguese to Argentine and Cuban influences that has always inspired de Barros to set her heart on home. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
I-HOUSE: GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! $5 per person, CASH ONLY. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
12pm
COFFEE WITH OUR LIBRARIANS - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Need a break? Have a question about Library resources? Just want to chat? Stop by the Seuss Room Foyer on November 16 and enjoy a cup of joe with our librarians. Remember, our Library staff is happy to help answer questions you may have about specific library resources and services. This is an opportunity to relax and share ways the Library can better serve you and your academic needs. Contact: s1raya@ucsd.edu
8pm
HULLABALOO - TOWN SQUARE & 
MATTHEWS QUAD
 Hullabaloo features delicious food, thrilling 
carnival rides, and live musical performances by national touring artists. UC San Diegos bright and passionate spirit truly lights up the night as students live out the motto: Eat. Play. Dance. Our artists this year are Saba, Vincent, and Leland, and we'll have vendors from around San Diego providing you with delicious eats.WED11.14
FRI11.16TUE11.13
ALL WEEK
14TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL 
EDUCATION WEEK 
Ride the Wave to UC San Diego's 14th Annual 
International Education Week (IEW) from November 
13-16, 2018. Join us in celebrating the importance 
international education and cross-cultural 
learning by participating an various events. Kick 
off the week by holding a country's flag at the Flag 
Parade, immerse yourself in the Global Fair, 
engage in globally-focused workshops and 
information sessions, or enjoy music and food 
from around the world! All events are FREE to 
attend! Chances of winning prizes, FREE FOOD, 
and more! Like us onfacebook.com/ucsdiew or 
visit us at iew.ucsd.edu to stay up-to-date on all 
of our events Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu 
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCTS ) - GREAT HALL 
One of I-House's most popular events, Language 
Conversation Tables (LCTs) creates an 
environment where people can learn another 
language through the art of conversing with a 
fluent speaker. LCTs has successfully helped 
people know more about both the language and 
the accompanied culture, as well as generating 
long-lasting friendships! Please RSVP at 
https://tinyurl.com/Fall18LCTTHU11.15TOWN SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUAD
10am
PARTNERSHIP SCHOOLS PROGRAM 
INFO SESSIONS - THURGOOD MARSHALL ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
TMC's Partnership Schools Program encourages 
you to apply to be an intern or volunteer tutor at 
one of our two Partnership Schools Gompers 
Preparatory Academy and the Preuss School for the 2019 Winter Quarter. Volunteers who also take the TMC 198 course can earn 4 credits and satisfy requirements for Marshall, ERC, and Sixth College! For more information please come to one of our info sessions or visit our website! Contact: partnershipschools@ucsd.edu
11am
CARE PEER EDUCATION PROGRAM 
INFORMATION SESSION - STUDENT SERVICES CENTER 554A
CARE at SARC is accepting applications for 
students who are interested in volunteering as CARE peer educators for the remainder of the 2018-2019 academic year. The mission of the CARE Peer Education Program is to raise awareness throughout the UC San Diego community about sexual assault, relationship violence, and stalking. CARE Peer Educators will assist with outreach through tabling and events, while also promoting activities and attitudes that will contribute to ending violence.  Contact: careinfo@ucsd.edu 858-534-5793
7pm
G-STORE OPEN MIC NIGHT - THE 
GENERAL STORE CO-OP ( OLD 
STUDENT CENTER) 
The General Store Co-op presents its quarterly 
open mic night! Students of all colleges are invited to perform any act that could use a mic be-it singing, rapping, spoken word, or comedy we can't wait to here it! Come on out, sign ups are in the store or through the given link! Contact: gstorecoop@gmail.com
7:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
JUNGLE FIRE - THE LOFT
The JUNGLE FIRE sound digs deep into Afro/Latin 
Funk with an approach that is authentic and highly explosive! The Los Angeles based 10-piece TropiFunk juggernaut pulls its influences from the music of legends such as Irakere, Ray Barretto, James Brown, Fela Kuti and Manu Dibango (just to name a few) while creating a melting pot of Afro-Caribbean and West African rhythms with a heavy break beat funk. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
ICE CREAM FLA VORS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Put (out), as a cigar
8. One that gets around?15. Moldova neighbor
16. Unquiet
17. Near miss
18. Mixture19. Set the stage for21. Star seen around midnight
22. Makes a splash
25. Men’s wear accessory
27. Greek queen of heaven28. They may be smacked29. Site of an oracle of Apollo
33. Directs
35. Make merry
36. “Let’s try this again”38. Up the proverbial creek39. Aristocracy, colloquially
40. Anchor position
41. Ending with brawn or brain
42. Leander’s love43. Bit of frippery: Var.45. __-slipper46. Neutral color49. Bust a gut51. Obvious sham53. Off one’s guard57. Beginning58. Was down a lot, maybe59. Rustling sounds60. They may be ItalianDOWN
 1. Wd. ending2. Bout ending3. Arg. neighbor
4. They’re not exact
5. Takes the bait
6. Patient lady of Arthurian legend7. Seconds8. Holds forth
9. Clean over
10. Eagles’ org.
11. “Not a chance!”12. Buster Brown’s dog13. Politician Bayh
14. San __
20. Twerp
22. Therapy focus23. Eastern Mediterranean region24. Mine vehicle
26. “__ you!”
28. Pope born Giovanni de’ Medici
30. Sacked31. Surly32. Some pool pros34. Michael of R.E.M.35. Mil. title37. Investors’ boons41. “Maybe”44. Singer Gorme45. Leblanc’s gentleman burglar Arsene 
__
46. ER tests47. Meditate (on)48. Asian royal50. Hawaiian staple52. Matter of the hearth54. “__ got it!”55. Catcher56. Mdse.HOUSING
1818 McKee St $3250. This two-bedroom 
and two-bathroom home is located in the Mission Hills neighborhood in San Diego. It is a mere six-minute walk from the Green Line at the Washington St Station stop.... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
3727 & 3737 Grim Ave. $2395. Spacious 2 
bedroom unit in the heart of North Park - MUST SEE! In the Heart of North Park. Torrey Pines Property Management proudly offers this beautifully updated 2br-2ba residence with new paint, plank flooring…  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
3520 3rd Ave. #207 $1895. One Bedroom 
Hillcrest near Scripps Mercy and UCSD Hospital - Large One Bedroom One Bath, Tiled entry/kitchen/dining. Granite Countertops in Kitchen and Bath. Underground parking, elevator, intercom, pool, on-site laundry. SORRY, NO PETS...ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
CARS
2019 Ford Transit 250. 2019 Ford Transit-250, T250, Cargo Van, New In Stock! Priced below MSRP!!! What a value** This outstanding Ford is 1 of the most sought after vehicles on the market because it NEVER lets owners down! ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2017 MINI Hardtop 4 Door Cooper Cooper 
4dr Hatchback. This 2017 MINI Cooper Hardtop 4 Door four door features a 1.5L three CYL three cylinder Gasoline engine. It is equipped with a 6 Gear Automatic trans -
mission. The vehicle is Electric Blue Metallic with a Carbon Black interior. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2016 Ford F-150 Lariat. CARFAX single owner and buyback guarantee. Hurry and 
take advantage now!! Less than 9k miles!!! You don’t have to worry about depreciation on this tough Vehicle!!!!* New In Stock... This gas-saving F-150 will get you where you need to go... ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
BIKES
52CM FOUNDRY CHILKOOT! FULL SRAM RED! TITANIUM! ENVE FORK (Riverside)Hello, Up for sale is a lightly used 52cm FOUNDRY CHILKOOT titanium road bike. Bike has only been used a handful of times due to me having too many bikes (like many of us) The bike comes with full SRAM RED 22 and SRAM FORCE 22 BRAKES. $2,500 OBO ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2010 SE Quadangle 20” Freestyle. Mint 
Condition (Escondido). Showroom condi -
tion bought for my kid after I bought him a dirt bike so maybe 2 mis on it. Black with red. Grips and pedals show no wear. Also comes with Landing Gear Forks not shown. Trade or looking for a 24” BMX bike jump type bike. In Escondido ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationMens Aluminum 26” Shaft drive Nexus 3 speed. Great condition (Escondido) 26” Dekra Shaft drive bike. Aluminum frame. No messy chain or adjustments to deal with. Nexus three speed. In Escondido ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
University City Mobil 
is looking for a 
prompt and courteous 
individual for part-
time cashier work. 
Apply in person 
3861 Governor Drive 
San Diego 92122Make from 
$1500 to $5000 
Donating blood in 
your area! 
Pay college tuition, buy a 
new car and take lavish 
vacations!!
For more information, 
send SASE to: Edwin 
Montgomery PO Box 
70173 Nashville, TN 
37207SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
LA JOLLA, Calif.— The UC San 
Diego men’s basketball team tipped 
off the regular season with a couple 
of home wins on Friday and Saturday. On Friday, UCSD matched up with 
a Canadian school, Simon Fraser 
University, dispatching them with ease in a 69–54 victory. On Saturday, UCSD downed the Western W ashington University team (ranked No. 14 in the nation) by a score of 97–92. These 
two victories came under the lights of the highly revamped Recreation Intramural Athletic Complex Arena, 
as the new Jumbotron, renovated seats, 
and upgraded broadcasting equipment gave a much more professional feel to the game. On the big screen, fans got to enjoy pump-up videos, state-of-the-art graphics, instant replays, and live video of themselves dancing. 
Vs. Simon Fraser — 69-54
On Friday, the Tritons started the regular season with a welcome-back party for redshirt junior center Chris Hansen, who missed all of last season due to a shoulder injury. Hansen made his presence felt in the game with a team-leading 19 points and 11 rebounds. He scored at will against Simon Fraser’s sophomore center 
Julian Roche, who had played Division 
I basketball last season. Hansen not only outscored Roche 19–6 but cleaned him up on the boards, beating him 11–6 in that area and doing all of this while being 4 inches shorter than Roche 
This was a back-and-forth game in 
the first half, with neither team being 
able to pull away: The teams went into 
the second half only 2 points apart at a score of 27–25. The Tritons still led 
going into the second half despite not being able to sink anything from beyond the arc. They shot an abysmal 
2–12 in the first half on the three ball, 
while Fraser alone hit 4 threes in the first half. UCSD held the lead due to its points in the paint with its continued success going inside, as the team scored 21 of their 27 first-half points in 
this way.
In the second half, UCSD snapped 
out of its shooting funk. The Tritons 
began raining threes down, putting up 6 in the second half on only one 
more attempt than they had in the 
first half. The UCSD guards, senior 
Christian Bayne and redshirt freshman Tyrell Roberts, started to get involved in the second half as they combined for 12 points. These two both found 
success going inside and drawing fouls: together they had 4 assists and 2 steals while going a combined 5-of-6 at the 
charity stripe. 
UCSD pulled away in the second 
half, outscoring Simon Fraser 42–27 
on the way to a 69–54 victory. This 
victory meant that the Tritons would advance to face No. 14–ranked Western Washington on Saturday.
Vs. Western Washington — 97-92
On Saturday UCSD fought a shootout with No. 14 Western Washington, as the Tritonshit 13 three-point baskets on their way to a 97–92 victory. The three-point barrage was 
led by senior forward Christian Oshita, who hit 4 of his 5 attempted three-point shots to go along with 20 total points and 7 rebounds.
UCSD trailed a fter the first half by a 
score of 50–44. The Tritons were being 
pounded by Western W ashington junior forward Trevor Jasinsky, who put up 15 points and 4 assists in the first half alone while making 3 three-point shots. For the second straight game, however, UCSD dominated in the paint in the first half, outscoring 
Western W ashington 16–8 inside. Once again, Hansen was unstoppable for the Tritons as he finished the game 
with a team-leading 26 points.
Different day, same pattern: Once 
again, the Tritons caught fire in the 
second half from beyond the arc. They 
hit an astonishing 6 three-pointers in the first half and added to that by sinking 7 in the second half. They also 
hit those 7 three-pointers on only 10 attempts, while Western W ashington scored their 7 on 17 attempts. Oshita led the Tritons in this half, hitting several clutch shots and putting up 10 points in only 12 minutes in the second half. He was named player of the game 
on Saturday, and fans got to enjoy his 
highlight reel on the big screen a fter 
the game, as the Tritons took this one by a score of 97–92. 
This was a perfect opening week for 
the Tritons as they go 2–0 on the young season, having defeated a very tough Western W ashington squad, which they may face again in the NCAA 
Tournament at the end of the year. 
The Tritons’ next game is Monday, 
November 12 at Rimac arena at 7:00 p.m., where they will try to make the season 3–0 against Saint Martin’s University.
BY lucas Armstrong
staff Writer
lucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu
Triton Basketball Is Back!
With victories over Simon Fraser and Western 
Washington, UCSD looks strong.PHOTO COURTESY O F HENRY CHEN16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Point Loma Nazarene
vs Western Washingtonvs Fresno Pacificvs Western WashingtonTBAUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
W Soccer
M Water Polo
W Basketball
M Water Polo7PM
TBA
9:30AM
1PM
TBA11/1411/1611/1611/1611/17
LA JOLLA, Calif.— The UC San 
Diego women’s basketball team kicked 
off its season this past weekend with 
two neutrally-located games against Simon Fraser University and Hawaii 
Pacific University. Both competitions, 
played at California State University, San Marcos’ Sports Center, resulted in Triton victories with scores of 75–70 
and 76–64, respectively.
Vs. Simon Fraser—Nov. 09, 75-70
An early lead for Simon Fraser 
allowed the Tritons to show their 
resiliency and come back on top for 
the start of the 2018-2019 campaign. 
Behind by 5 points a fter the first 
quarter, and trailing by 4 at the half, the Tritons turned the score around following the break, shi fting the 
momentum greatly to their advantage.
The Tritons were led by returners, 
junior forward Mikayla Williams 
and senior guard Kayla Sato, who 
combined for a total of nearly half the 
teams’ points (38). Williams completed 
her first double-double of the year, 
with a team high of 23 points and 12 
rebounds. Sato contributed 15 points 
on a solid 5 for 8 from the fi eld, on top 
of 3 assists and 3 steals from the guard 
position.Senior guard Joleen Y ang collected 
an additional 13 points as well as 3 
assists in her 35 minutes of play. Not to 
mention, newcomers, junior forward 
Haleigh Hat field and freshman guard 
Julia Macabuhay, assisted in the team 
triumph, fitting in just fine to their new 
home. Hat field, a first-year transfer 
from North Carolina, debuted with 12 
points, 6 rebounds and a perfect 2–2 from the free throw line. Macabuhay, 
a Los Angeles native, tallied 12 points 
as well.
As a unit, the Tritons averaged a 
field goal percentage of 47.5 throughout 
the game and shot 77.8 percent from 
the free throw line. UCSD led in 
rebounds 35–34, limited turnovers 12–
16 and steals 6–5 to secure their season 
opener. Upon outscoring Simon Fraser 
16–9 following the third quarter, the 
Tritons went full force ahead to capture 
the win in the fourth. 
Vs. Hawaii Pacifi c—Nov. 10, 76–64
Another stellar performance 
for Williams carried the Tritons 
to their second win of the season. 
Williams dominated with a 36-point 
performance (14–21) along with 7 
rebounds and 2 assists. Sato followed 
right behind with 14 buckets of her 
own and 5 rebounds, 4 of which came 
on the defensive end.
UCSD scored more than Hawaii Pacific in every quarter except for the 
third. The Tritons excelled beyond its 
opponent in points in the paint, 40–28, second chance opportunities and 
executions 25–12, and total rebounds 
48–37. The blue and gold also found its 
way to the free throw line 23 times in 
comparison to the Sharks’ 9.
Junior guard Sydney Sharp was 
effective in multiple aspects on the 
court, recording 8 points, 7 rebounds 
and 1 steal. Y ang dropped an additional 
9 points on a perfect 4–4 evening 
from the free throw line. Hat field was 
a threat on the boards, collecting 11 
rebounds, 5 o ffensive and 6 defensive.
UCSD led for 36 minutes of the 
game as there was only 2 tied scores 
and 1 lead change. An adjusted 46.9 
field goal percent in the second half 
from a 30.8 percent in the first resulted 
in the outcome the Tritons were seeking. And a huge 27-point fourth 
quarter wrapped up the double-digit 
win nicely.
UCSD will be back in action 
Friday, Nov. 16 and Saturday Nov. 17, as it takes on, in order, Western 
W ashington University and Seattle 
Pacific University at the Sodexo Tip-
Off Classic in Seattle.
The Major League Baseball 
landscape is ever-changing. Even a fter 
winning playo ff series and ending 
championship droughts, teams are 
always on the lookout for ways to improve their team for both the 
present and the future. The National 
League West is no di fferent. All five 
teams in this division have a chance 
to be competitive over the next two seasons. Despite the dominance of the Los Angeles Dodgers over the last six 
seasons, the race to win the division 
has been closely contested for nearly all of those seasons. If this o ffseason goes 
as planned for the rest of the division, this trend should not change. The Los Angeles Dodgers (92–71, 
National League Champions)
Over the last two seasons, the 
Dodgers have come within just a 
few wins of bringing a World Series 
championship back to Los Angeles. However, their collapses in the World Series have been notable and somewhat predictable due to holes in the roster. Despite trade-deadline acquisitions of stars like Y u Darvish in 2017 and Manny Machado in 2018, the team was unable to overcome de ficiencies 
in the bullpen and an inability to score without the home run. At both trade deadlines, the Dodgers dealt for bullpen help as well, netting veteran rental arms like Tony W atson in 2017 and Ryan Madson in 2018, but these arms were overworked during the playo ffs, 
and, especially in the case of Madson, mostly ine ffective during the Series. If 
the Dodgers expect to compete again in 2019, they need to alter their approach to the bullpen during this o ffseason. 
They already have an overabundance of long relievers in Julio Urias, Ross Stripling, Caleb Ferguson, and Brock Stewart. However, what they lack is late-inning experience. Only Kenley Jansen, the aging closer, has real closing experience, but he has been exposed in 
back-to-back World Series as losing 
his edge. As such, the Dodgers need to stop worrying about reclamation projects and instead focus on bringing in a savvy veteran with closing (and hopefully playo ff) experience on a 
short-term deal with a high average annual value. Potential fits for the bullpen: David 
Robertson (RHP): 137 career saves — Adam Ottavino (RHP): 55 holds in last two seasons — Brad Brach (RHP): 30 saves in last two seasons —Cody Allen (RHP): 149 career saves — Santiago Casilla (RHP): 144 career saves.  
The Colorado Rockies (91–72, lost in 
back -to-back Wild Card games)
The Rockies were one win away 
from winning the NL West, a feat they have yet to accomplish since they came into the league in 1993. Despite their Wild Card losses, the 2017 and 2018 playoff berths mark the first time in 
franchise history that the Rockies have 
had back-to-back playo ff appearances. 
With powerful bats and a strong 
young core of starting pitching, the Rockies really only have been missing bullpen depth as well as lineup depth and flexibility. Last o ffseason, the 
Rockies went all-out in an attempt to solidify their bullpen, signing veteran W ade Davis to close out games and 
veterans Bryan Shaw and Jake McGee 
to handle the late innings. While these signings were highly touted at the time, this aging trio has had a tough time adjusting to the diff erent spins and thin 
air that Colorado’s Coors Field houses. This offseason, the team should focus 
on some in field or lineup depth with 
positional flexibility, since the bullpen 
is filled with reliable, albeit aging, arms 
for 2019 to complement a vibrant young starting rotation. 
Potential fits for the in field: Asdrubal 
Cabrera (2B/SS/3B): a veteran with playoff experience — Brian Dozier (2B): 
a former All Star and defensive stalwart who has over 40 home-run power — Matt Adams (1B/OF): a le fty to platoon 
with Ian Desmond at first base.
The Arizona Diamondbacks (82–80, 
dominated the NL West)
With a former Manager of the 
Y ear at the helm and perennial All-Stars in the lineup and on the mound, the Diamondbacks’ epic late-season collapse last season was quite unexpected. While the D-backs had a somewhat quiet o ffseason last year, 
adding veteran out field depth with 
Steven Souza and Jarrod Dyson, their 2018 offseason seems to be much more 
important to their long-term plans. A.J. Pollock, one of the few All-Stars on this roster, is up for free agency. Despite a passable starting out field of Dyson, Souza, and breakout star David 
Peralta, the team should still look into 
replacing Pollock’s bat, even if in a different position. A lack of depth at 
starting pitcher, however, should be the team’s focus if they want to compete in 2019. The team’s de facto ace from last 
season, Patrick Corbin, is a free agent this offseason a fter a breakout 2018 
campaign and should command a 
salary just outside of Arizona’s comfort 
zone. He will be replaced in the rotation by the young Taijuan W alker, who spent nearly all of 2018 on the disabled list a fter undergoing Tommy 
John surgery in late April. If they lose 
Corbin, the Diamondbacks will need a 
few starting pitchers to eat up innings, as W alker will need to be eased back in. The front o ffice may decide, however, 
to just blow things up and try again in 2020. 
Potential fits at starting pitcher: 
Marco Estrada (RHP): has thrown less than 175 innings only once since 2015 
— Clay Buchholz (RHP): pitched for 
the D-backs last season, going 7–2 with a 2.01 ERA — Hyun-Jin Ryu (LHP): would add a much needed le fty to the 
rotation and from the Dodgers has deep experience with the NL West and postseason.The San Francisco Giants (73–89, 
haven’t made the playo ffs since 2016)
The San Francisco Giants went 
on one of the most historic runs in baseball history from 2010 to 2014, when they won three World Series championships and shocked the world. These teams were built on starting 
pitching talent, bullpen depth, and a balanced lineup to go along with stellar defense. The 2018 Giants, however, 
had almost none of these things. The 
team has a decent bullpen that features three potential save-getters in Will Smith, Mark Melancon, and Hunter Strickland, but beyond the bullpen, the team lacks this sort of depth. The 
starting rotation was hit hard by injury last season, with veterans Madison Bumgarner, Johnny Cueto, and Je ff 
Samardzija all hitting the disabled 
list at various points throughout the 
season. The infield features a starting 
five of veterans and past All-Stars, 
all of whom seem to be at least a few seasons removed from their primes (players like Evan Longoria, Brandon Crawford and Buster Posey). The only truly gaping hole on the Giants’ roster 
seems to be their out field. Though the 
outfield was forti fied by Hunter Pence 
and Andrew McCutchen at the start of 
last season, ine ffectiveness, injury and 
trades sent the pair away. Now, three young and inexperienced out fielders 
will roam spacious AT&T Park. If the Giants can fill this hole, they may be in 
a position to compete in 2019 should 
everything on the injury front not fall 
apart once again. 
Potential fits in the out field: Carlos 
Gomez (LF/RF): The former All-Star 
has fallen o ff over the last couple of 
seasons, but his low price and high 
ceiling would fit the Giants’ plans well 
— Nick Markakis (RF): A fter an All-
Star campaign in 2018, his price should 
still be depressed due to his age at 35. However, his plate skills are exceptional, as are his fundamentals, and the Giants could use a veteran to guide their future core of out fielders — Marwin Gonzalez 
(LF/IF): The former World Series 
champion is one of the most skilled utility men in baseball with the bat, and his ability to play multiple positions in the infield would allow the Giants to 
rotate out and rest their veterans. While he may be one of the more expensive outfielders on the market, his ability to 
play every day and almost anywhere would be invaluable to the Giants. 
The San Diego Padres (66–96, last 
playoff appearance was in 2006)
It’s been a long time since the 
Padres were competitive. Ever since 
their gigantic 2015 o ffseason, in which 
they landed former All-Stars like Craig Kimbrel, Justin Upton, Matt Kemp, and Wil Myers, the team had been eerily quiet in the o ffseason. But that changed 
last offseason. With the addition of 
former World Series champion Eric Hosmer, the team attempted to lock down first base for the foreseeable 
future. Myers and Hosmer have the largest deals in Padres history at $144 million for Hosmer and $83 million for Myers, and together they anchor the corner in field slots for the Padres. 
The team is not so stable up the middle, 
however. Luis Urias, a quick young second baseman, looks to compete with veteran Cory Spangenberg for a starting job come Spring Training, though Urias only hit under 0.210 in his short major-league stint with the Padres last season. Shortstop has even less of an answer, with the current 
top option on the depth chart listed 
as journeyman Greg Garcia. Though 
young, the catcher position looks as stable as it has been since Y asmani Grandal le ft the team, as Austin Hedges 
and top prospect Francisco Mejia are poised to battle for playing time in Spring Training as well. The outfield 
is similarly competitive, with the only 
seemingly sure thing being center 
fielder Manuel Margot, who o ffers 
20-20 potential out of the leado ff spot 
for the Padres. The rest of the out field 
houses lo fty power potential, with 
Hunter Renfroe and Franmil Reyes 
combining to pop 42 home runs last 
season. Franchy Cordero and Travis Jankowski also are looking for playing time in the out field, as Cordero hit well 
in 139 at-bats for the Padres last season as a 24 year old, and Jankowski stole 24 bases in only 347 at-bats. For the starting rotation, depth is the key, as young arms Joey Lucchesi, Eric Lauer, 
and Robbie Erlin lock down the sta ff. 
The bullpen is similarly deep despite 
losing Brad Hand and Adam Cimber 
at the last trade deadline, with closer Kirby Y ates being preceded by studs Matt Strahm and Craig Stammen. If the young bats in the out field can come 
alive this season, and if a strong-hitting shortstop is signed, the Padres could 
compete much sooner than people 
thought. 
Potential fits up the middle: Jose 
Iglesias (SS): One of the slickest fielders 
in the game, the 2015 All-Star is one of the most underappreciated pieces in baseball. Iglesias stole 15 bases last season while hitting 0.269 with 39 extra-base hits, and at only 29 years 
old, he should show no signs of slowing 
down — Freddy Galvis (SS): Galvis had decent success in his first season as a 
Padre last year, accruing 13 homers and 8 steals to go along with a 0.248 average over a full season. While he has less on-base skills and less talent with the glove than Iglesias, Galvis could be a passable option at shortstop. If the Padres want to win now, however, they should move on.
BY madeline lewis
senior Staff Writer
BY jack dorfman
contributing Writermadeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@gmail.comWomen’s Basketball Starts 2–0
MLB Offseason Outlook: The NL WestTritons start off blistering hot, easily dispatching preseason opponents.
Potential fits for each team in the NL WestPHOTO COURTESY O F FRANCESCA HUMMLER