This past Thursday, Peter 
Humphrey, founder of company 
ChinaWhys, a risk-management 
firm in China that handled private 
investigations to assess domestic and international regulatory 
compliance of businesses in China, 
came to UC San Diego to recount 
his story dealing with the Chinese 
criminal system. A fter a case of 
an internal investigation that ChinaWhys was hired to conduct 
on one of British corporation 
Glaxo Smith Kline’s employees, 
Humphrey was sentenced to 87 
months in Chinese federal prison on charges of obstruction of justice by the authorities in Shanghai. 
Following over a year of court 
appeals, diplomatic e fforts by 
foreign ambassadors, and battling cancer, Humphrey was finally 
released, and le ft with a remarkable 
testimony.
As a Chinese scholar with 
over 20 years in journalism, 
Peter Humphrey described his 
relation with the Eastern giant as a “43-year-old love a ffair. ” 
Between 2003 and 2013 Peter 
and his wife ran their company 
ChinaWhys which utilized publicly 
available information to determine 
whether or not enterprises in 
various sectors were engaging in white collar crimes and “fraud in every imaginable shape and form. ” 
Over the years, ChinaWhys 
conducted large-scale 
investigations for global organizations. From dealing 
with sales managers engaging in 
corrupt practices, such as leaking 
private internal company data 
to the Chinese government and 
upper management personnel 
receiving bribes to discriminately facilitate vaccine distribution, 
Humphrey and his wife had grown 
accustomed to the complexities 
of operating within the legal 
process — until one day they were VOLUME 51, ISSUE 30  MONDA Y , JUNE 4, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Shots Fired at 
Rock n Roll Marathon 
Downtown
A female was apprehended in a parking 
garage near the race with an airsoft gun.
The San Diego Rock ‘n’ Roll 
Marathon was placed on hold on 
Sunday afternoon after shots were 
fired near the route. The shots 
came from near a parking garage in downtown, and a woman in her 50s holding an airsoft gun was 
subsequently arrested. According to 
the San Diego Police Department, a police officer was rushed to the hospital after wounding himself from an accidental self-inflicted 
gunshot to the leg.
Tens of thousands of runners 
were participating in the race at the 
time, with thousands of additional 
spectators. 
The first reports of gunshots were 
made from the City Hall Parkade 
about two miles from the marathon’s finish line. Coming over the wire at 
11:20 a.m., the first reports were 
shortly followed by officials shutting down the marathon’s path at 11:45 a.m. and relocating around 5,000 
runners to a safer area. Officers 
had been posted throughout the race previously to offer security 
and regulate traffic, so units were 
already in the area to respond. 
In a press conference conducted 
by Chief of Police David Nisleit, the alleged shooter “pointed a gun 
at one of the officers” after several 
officers located the woman inside the parking garage.
One officer fired twice at the 
woman, Nisleit noted. However, both shots missed, and the suspect continued to move higher up the garage. 
Eyewitnesses at the scene 
reported to police that the woman’s gun was very visible, and some believed her intention was to shoot at the athletes.
“During that time the person 
was armed with a handgun, had the handgun very visible, the helicopter could see the handgun, so we started getting calls in of an active shooter, ” 
Nisleit said, according to NBC7. 
Although the police department 
must review the body-camera 
footage from the incident and 
interview the responding officers 
before making a final conclusion, they will be looking into the claims that the woman was targeting the runners.
“There are some reports that 
she was firing down towards the runners, ” Nisleit stated. “That’s obviously something that we’re going to have to look at and that will 
obviously be part if this investigation 
moving forward, but as you can imagine, this is an evolving case. 
CALIFORNIA
BY lauren  holt
 news editor
International Fraud Investigator Gives Speech to UC San Diego Students
Members of San Diego’ s Native American community peform on Marshall Field. Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  
The UC San Diego Library and Triton 
Food Pantry launched the first “Food 
for Fine$” initiative on Sunday, May 27. 
The program, which will continue through June 
9, allows students to pay their overdue book fees 
with donations of non-perishable food items to the 
Triton Food Pantry.
In addition to overdue fees, the library will also 
waive billing and processing fees up to a maximum of $40. For each item brought in, the library will 
remove $2 from the donator’s outstanding fees. 
All fines must be from the current quarter, weeks 1 through 8. Some of the most-needed food items 
are: cereal, rice, pasta and pasta sauce, canned 
meats, soups, granola bars, oatmeal, and canned fruit.
Laura Weis, the library’s circulation operations 
supervisor, told the UCSD Guardian that the library staff was inspired by the countless other 
Food for Fines programs around the country. 
“Libraries nationwide have a long history of 
working in cooperation with food pantries and we wanted to join in to provide help, ” Weis said. “What a great way for students to clear their overdue fees 
for this quarter and at the same time help others.“
In 2016, a similar program in Sonoma County 
raised over 5,000 pounds of food and waived almost $7,000 in fines. 
Students may submit their donations to either 
the Geisel Library or Biomedical Library front desks. Most non-perishable food items will 
be accepted, except items in glass containers, 
homemade items, ramen, gum, soda, and candy. In 
addition, the items must expire after June 1, 2018. 
Any large packages of small, individually wrapped items will be counted as one item.
Sherlock Li, a Revelle College sophomore who 
currently serves as the volunteer coordinator, and is an incoming lead manager of the Triton Food 
Pantry and would like to expand the program in 
the future to include themes. 
“[The program] is very inspirational, ” Li told 
the Guardian. “If it works out this time, we are looking forward to having this program again with a themed food donation. After working 
with the library, it inspired me to work with By Promita  Nandy    Staff WriterUCSD  
Library to Accept Food Donations as Replacement for FinesPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
STATE OF 
THE ARTS
Professor Seth Lerer 
reflects on UC San 
Diego’s unique 
academic and 
cultural identity, and 
envisions its future.
SIX  COLLEGE  SYSTEM
SENIOR SENDOFFSUnifying  the  campus
Saying   GoodbyeOpinion,  Page   4
Features, Page 6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “With President Donald 
Trump making it his 
personal quest to ruin 
anything that is good 
in this country, being a 
journalist in 2018 in the 
United States resembles 
an episode of “American 
Ninja Warrior” more than 
an actual job.”A&E,   PAGE  11
MONDAY
 H 78 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 58
TUESDAY
H 75 L 60
THURSDAY
H 75 L 59
LIGHTS AND SIRENS...3
TRADITIONS..................4
EGGERS........................8
A&E SENDOFFS..........10
BASEBALL...................15LOCAL
Marcus Thuillier
Across the Globe
 PAGE 4Peter Humphrey relayed his experience in a Chinese prison and the corruption within their judicial system.
BY Rebeca Camacho
Staff Writer 
See HUMPHREY,  page 3 See MARATHON,  page 3See GEISEL,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. We all just did squats in the office and now the Guardian is over.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarSunday, May 27
12:20 a.m. InjuryFemale fell o ff skateboard. Transported to Hospital.
1:04 a.m. Call for HelpCaller felt like she was being followed. Transferred to Other Agency — San Diego 
Police Department.
11:44 a.m. Warrant ArrestReport of male climbing on street signs and lying in roadway. Closed by Adult Arrest.3:32 p.m. Medical AidDiabetic female has not eaten in 12 hours. Service provided.10:42 p.m. Suspicious PersonMale digging through dumpster. Field Interview.11:01 p.m. Unknown Trouble
Caller heard a male yell “help” twice. Referred to Other Agency — San Diego 
Police Department.1:20 p.m. Disturbance/Th reats/Trespass
Discharged patient refusing to leave, became verbally and physically aggressive, threatened physical harm to security guard. Stay Away Order Issued.
Monday, May 28
1:04 a.m. Welfare CheckCaller requesting to speak with San Diego Police Reach Team. Field Interview.
1:38 a.m. Domestic Violence Disturbance
Sound of argument between couple in nearby apartment. Transferred to Other Agency — San Diego Police Department.2:12 a.m. TrespassTwo males jumped over fence into pool area. Unable to Locate.3:01 a.m. Marijuana ContactDuffle bag found with marijuana. Report taken.
5:09 a.m. Public IntoxicationGroup of intoxicated students in front of building, one transported to detox for 
public intoxication. Report taken.
11:19 a.m. DisturbancePeople crossing into seal area. Referred to Other Agency.2:52 p.m. Welfare CheckStudent’s parent called, concerned he is having suicidal thoughts. Service provided. 10:05 p.m. DisturbanceReporting party’s ex-boyfriend refusing to leave apartment. Report taken.11:58 p.m. Animal Call
Possible dead bird in south side of building. Service provided.Tuesday, May 29
12:23 a.m. VandalismUnknown suspect vandalized wall with spray paint, damage $200.00. Report taken. 
12:28 a.m. - 12:42 a.m. Disturbance - Psych Subject
Original call for medical aid, for adult female experiencing chest pains, female later made suicidal comment to o fficer. Transport to Hospital.
1:38 a.m. Noise DisturbanceLoud laughing. Referred to student conduct.6:33 a.m. Burglary/Petty Th eft/Vandalism
Unknown suspect forced entry into locked room, broke glass of vending machine and removed multiple food items, loss $20.00. Report taken.8:56 a.m. Suspicious Person
Report of motorist driving slowly and recording di fferent subject with cell phone. 
Unable to Locate.
10:01 a.m. InformationCaller called 911 line to inquire about location information for doctor, referred to non-emergency number. Logged event.12:06 p.m. Welfare CheckParent concerned because daughter has not been in communication since 6:00 p.m., and is known to be sick with flu. Checks OK.
12:46 p.m. Person Down
Male on bench. Field Interview.
8:20 p.m. Gas/Water/Sewer LeakSmell of natural gas near construction site and by social sciences building. Checks OK.9:18 p.m. Suspicious PersonMale in dumpster. Unable to Locate.10:17 p.m. Hazard SituationHeavy amount of human feces in front of first floor bathroom doors. Referred to 
other UCSD Department — EH&S.
10:05 p.m. Disturbance
Reporting party’s ex-boyfriend refusing to leave apartment. Report taken.10:59 p.m. InformationVehicle parked in electrical parking space, booted. Information only.
—  Armonie Mendez
Associate News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
The Injured Officer Should Make a Full Recovery
▶ MARATHON, from page 1
We’re just starting to get into the 
investigation. ” 
Nisleit also announced that the 
shooting incident is believed to have been in connection with a kidnapping reported in Chula Vista this morning by a man alleging that he was gagged, 
tied, and kidnapped by a woman.
Police concluded that his 
description matched that from 
another report of a hit-and-run 
downtown at 10:45 a.m. The crash 
occurred at the intersection of Kettner Boulevard and West A Street, 
and the woman allegedly drove her car into Civic Center Plaza Parkade, 
where the standoff with police took place. 
Just before being arrested, the 
woman threw what has since been identified as a pellet gun onto the ground  
The race resumed at around 
noon, and the officer shot in the leg is expected to make a full recovery.
 
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.eduHumphrey: Laws in China Have Not Changed Due to the Single Party Rule
▶ HUMPHREY, from page 1
“shanghaied.”
After a Chinese employee 
from British pharmaceutical 
and healthcare corporation GSK 
received word that ChinaWhys was 
investigating suspicious activity on 
her behalf with regards to company 
documents, Humphrey received 
word that certain retaliation would 
follow. Soon aft er, Humphrey, 
along with his wife, who is a Chinese citizen, were detained by 
Chinese authorities on grounds of 
obstruction of justice. 
Humphrey’s gruesome retelling 
of his conditions while in prison 
described much of what he called 
“political purge under disguise of 
judicial ruling. ” He was sentenced 
to two and a half years in Chinese 
prison and deportation; as for his 
wife, she was sentenced to two 
years and monetary fines. A fter 
being separated from his wife, Humphrey was served food in dog 
bowls, o ften confi ned to spend 
all his time exclusively in his cell, 
faced with extensive interrogations 
where he was o ften locked in an iron chair and coerced into signing false confessions or “gag pledges, ” 
and most detrimentally denied 
access to medical care while 
undergoing the various stages of 
prostate cancer.  
While in prison, Peter 
encountered many other 
individuals detained for cases 
involving the Chinese government. 
Among them were American 
businessmen and a traveling 
schoolteacher, who remain 
detained to this day on allegations 
of which such evidence has not 
been fully disclosed. 
“Chinese laws have not moved 
out of the shadow of the party’s 
rules, ” Humphrey remarked. 
Facing severe duress, 
Humphrey’s ability to legally 
challenge the allegations against 
him were signifi cantly restricted. 
With very limited time to speak with his attorneys, limited or 
no permission to make phone calls, and brie fings only minutes 
before each court hearing, Peter Humphrey concluded his experience to be summed as torture according to United 
Nations treaties and International 
Law.        
After lobbying by British 
and American ambassadors and 
international pressure on their 
behalf, Humphrey and his wife 
were released on June 9, 2015. He 
remains determined to challenge 
the rulings against him, and 
expose the chronic mechanism of 
party authority between China’s 
prosecutors and the judiciary 
branch.
“By no stretch of imagination 
are they independent or impartial, ” 
Humphrey emphasized. 
Today Humphrey is working 
with the American court system 
towards exposing how China 
persists in legislating retroactively 
to cover up past judicial abuses 
within their legal system. The Library’ s Deadline to Donate Will Be June 9
▶ GEISEL, from page 1
other departments to do something 
similar. I am currently reaching out 
to [the] transportation department 
to host something similar. ”
Library staff and members of the 
food pantry encourage students to donate food even if they don’t have any outstanding fees. The library 
will accept donations from any students on behalf of the pantry. 
Interested students can contact the 
library for more details. 
Rebeca Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.edu Promita  Nandy   pnandy@ucsd.edu
good luck on finals!
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Economize it
When I started this column over 
three years ago, I was just happy 
it had been picked up. Finally, I would have a platform to explore 
topics dear to my heart. From the 
stock market in China to  the clean energy industry in Germany, this 
column was ideal to explore a wide 
variety of global issues and how 
they relate to the United States. 
And then something changed. I felt forced to turn these 500 words 
into something more personal. In 
here, I talked about an independent 
press, revisionist history, being an 
immigrant, and well, Trump. 
The United States is a mess 
right now, but I signed on for at 
least 15 more months in graduate 
school. France is a mess, and more 
generally, the world is a mess. 
The sad reality is that none of the issues from previous iterations of this column have been fixed. To 
name a few, health insurance in 
the United States is still a mess, the education system is as corrupt 
and unequal as ever, and American 
patriotism is still frightening. Kids 
suffering from attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder are still heavily and excessively medicated, 
and not only did the United States 
harden its stance on Syrian war 
refugees, but it hardened its  stance 
on immigrants in general.
On top of all that, it’s just been 
the worst time to be a journalist. 
With President Donald Trump 
making it his personal quest to ruin 
anything that is good in this country, 
being a journalist in 2018 in the United States resembles an episode 
of “American Ninja Warrior” more 
than an actual job. I can relate to 
some of it. This column has seen its 
fair share of debunked lies and eye rolls. So many eye rolls. I spent the better part of these past two years 
trying not to write about Trump, but 
I ultimately always come back to it. This column was a great way to 
express my frustration and disbelief 
at what has happened recently, and 
I can truly say it has gotten me 
through some tough times. I know 
I’ve bashed America a lot, but in 
the end I feel pretty happy to be 
here. I am lucky to be able to live 
here and to have the opportunity to 
write this last column. So here goes 
one last time.
Most of my previous column 
topics do not have an easy fix. My cynical and pessimistic nature make me inclined to believe 
they will never get a fix. But that 
does not mean they should be 
ignored. It does not mean they 
can be forgotten. You should care if your state allows 13-year-old 
girls to get married under certain 
circumstances. You should care 
if politicians or people in power 
deny that the Holocaust happened. 
You should care if the discourse is excluding others based on their 
race, sex or — gosh forbid — their 
religion or lack thereof. You should 
care about all these issues, but even 
if you don’t, journalists will always 
be there to hold those in power 
accountable.  Traditions are long-established ways of 
thinking and customs that are passed down 
from generation to generation; however, the ramifications of certain traditions in the United States have been ignored in order to continue celebrating a beloved custom. Not only do people willfully ignore the oppressive origins of a certain practice they celebrate, their continued participation ensures the perpetuation of an outdated belief of gender roles. This is also enforced through the institutionalization of these traditions in our society which makes it difficult to alter how they are practiced. 
Despite the many strides that feminists 
all over America have taken to advocate for gender equity, there still has not been any acknowledgement that certain customs have inadvertently oppressed women and minorities. The fact that cheerleading is still prevalent in our society shows the ways in which people overlook the objectification of women for the sake of tradition. Cheerleading is considered to be sexist due to the extreme regulations associated with it: the cheerleaders are not allowed near alcohol, cannot attend parties, and cannot wear jewelry with their outfits, which are increasingly sexualized. In addition, cheerleaders have to deal with minimum-wage pay and participate in “jiggle-tests,” which are a test used to assess every inch of their bodies. Even though there is an acknowledgement of the sexism rooted in this custom, it still persists. It could be argued that cheerleading and sports complement each other and actually enhance the sports watching experience, but if that was the case women’s sports should also have the option to employ cheerleaders. In addition, since the outfits are decided without the input of the cheerleaders, it takes away a certain artistic expression that is associated with a sport-like dance. When there is a standardized and strict dress code, it can be oppressive to women from other cultures and religions, which prevent them from pursuing that sport. 
Marriage is one of those customs that have 
become institutionalized in our society. It has 
many facets that are inherently sexist, from 
the idea that men should propose, to a father 
walking his daughter down the aisle. These 
traditions are based on the patriarchal systems 
that for thousands of years saw women as the 
property of men, and therefore established this 
practice of women sent off by men to men. The 
recent wedding of Meghan Markle and Prince 
Harry has shown the backlash when the public 
found out that Markle’s father would not be 
walking her down the aisle, almost like stating 
that their marriage is illegitimate without her father there. The idea that Markle’s mother, her 
own family, would have to walk her down the aisle was criticized by many, but when it was announced that Prince Charles would replace her father, he was praised. Marriage has become so institutionalized that even a slight change to its process is met with pushback and criticism. Many people may not recognize that by vocalizing their support for Prince Charles to walk Markle down the aisle, they inadvertently perpetuate the notion that a man should give a woman away. 
An argument defending these traditions 
cites that their historical background is not acknowledged in our current society, and these traditions should continue because it’s how it always has been. However, the acceptance of these practices by both women and men alike also accepts their sexist and oppressive nature. It is important to address the oppressive nature of some customs in order to potentially change how they are integrated into our more accepting and tolerant society. If our society recognizes the historical significance of certain customs we participate in, we can alter them to allow for more inclusivity and empowerment. For example, cheerleading could loosen its regulations and give more creative freedom to its performers, moving toward creating equitable conditions for the women in the sport. There are many more customs that can be altered to be more inclusive, but the first step is recognizing why they are celebrated and then changing how we celebrate them in our own lives. 
CLarisse V azquez  c7vasque@ucsd.eduAbolishing the Six 
College System
UC San Diego’s six-college 
system separates students upon 
their enrollment into one of 
six campuses, each one with their own mantras and general education requirements. The 
most notable differences are 
tolerable: the quality of dining halls, the proximity to the center of campus, and the architecture. 
But this system permeates every 
facet of the college experience at UCSD. General education, student leadership, and campus 
community all fall prey to this 
intentionally divisive system. Contrary to the pretty, porcelain image of the personalized 
community, the six-college 
system represents the willful division of students painted over with ambiguous buzzwords like 
Roger Revelle College’s slogan 
“Purpose, Truth, Vision.”
While the school brands the 
system as a customizable college 
experience, the general education 
experience between colleges differs more by time than by educational value. Each campus 
covers some form of humanities, 
qualitative skills, and natural and social sciences. But a student 
on one campus will meet these 
requirements more quickly than a student on another. For example, a humanities major in Eleanor 
Roosevelt College might take 
17 courses to cover their many general education requirements whereas a science, technology, 
engineering, and math major in 
Revelle might take 8 since their major requirements overlap with general education requirements. 
Prospective students choose 
their preferred campus based off vague mission statements from each college, not knowing 
how their choice of campus will 
affect their course load. The colleges’ websites explicitly state the number of courses for 
each requirement, but they do 
not discuss how far an egregious general education workload can set back a student. A prospective 
student would have to prepare a 
four-year plan without knowing the college they will ultimately fall in to make an informed 
decision. This is especially 
tedious for undeclared students or students who later change their major. With intercollege transfers 
being so rare, the six-college 
system traps uninformed students on a campus that might make their time to degree longer than it 
needs to be.
The six-college system 
also weighs down on student leadership. The image of the 
college councils working to address systemic issues under the umbrella of the Associated 
Students Council vaguely 
resembles the state and federal 
See COLLEGES, page 5 ▶
Tradition Does Not Excuse the 
Perpetuation of Misogyny
BY CLARISSE VASQUEZ  //  SENIOR STAFF WRITERMARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDUACROSS 
THE GLOBE
“If our society 
recognizes the 
historical significance 
of certain customs we 
participate in, we can 
alter them to allow for 
more inclusivity and 
empowerment.”divisions. But the personal 
struggles do not differ between 
ERC students and Thurgood 
Marshall College students like they do between California and Alabama residents, for 
instance. Rather than dividing 
responsibilities between localized and centralized powers as the government does, the six-college 
system tasks college councils 
with combating the same systemic issues tackled by the central A.S. Council but within discrete units 
of 5000 students. But councils 
cannot divide and conquer chronic issues. Most struggles facing students do not begin and end on this campus, so placing the 
same responsibilities on members 
of different councils just leads to bloating. There is no reason for ERC and Marshall student 
councils, for example, to each 
have transfer representatives; the transfer experience does not differ between a Marshall student and an 
ERC student by virtue of living 30 
feet apart. Though the six-college system mimics community-based governance, in effect, it only 
segregates students facing the 
same trials. 
The specious argument follows 
BY CHRIS ROBERTSON  //  OPINION EDITOR
Watch the World Burn, 
Live to Write About ItOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
UC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER  
TRANSIT PASS
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited rides on MTS 
and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express  routes excluded.) Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  or continuing students from Spring 2018 to Fall 2018 required.
summerpass.ucsd.edu
Exclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
Online Sales Only: 
June 18 – August 31$36
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
that smaller campuses create more tight-knit communities. 
But the idea that evenly dispersing students within one of 
six arbitrarily defined categories will foster community 
holds no merit. If the intent was to match like-minded students to the same college from the start, then UCSD would not assign students equally to all six colleges. 
Rather, students would be able to enter any college 
regardless of how large an individual college becomes. UCSD’s reputation as “UC Socially Dead” proves that chopping up the university into disconnected units 
inhibits the growths of a collective student community. 
The fact of the matter is that the six-college system 
is one example of many institutionalized tactics for 
restricting the growth of campus communities. College 
campuses are notorious for youth activism and extremely 
vocal populations — both of which bode poorly for the campus’ reputation on the national and global stages. Preventing student collectivism is the reason there are 
no open quads on campus that can accommodate large 
student gatherings. It is the reason that the police maintain a constant presence on campus. It is the reason that UCSD would rather create a seventh college as enrollment rises instead of growing the existing colleges. UCSD did not 
simply stumble upon a new, vague collection of words 
that were missing from the other colleges’ mottos; they needed to expand the system in order to maintain these discrete niches across campus. 
Despite how forgettable it is in the day-to-day lives of 
students, the six-college system is one of the most deeply entrenched flaws of this university. It complicates, bloats, and undermines so many facets of the college experience 
but hides behind esteemed figures and polished slogans. 
More centralized models exist on campuses across the globe, so replacing this failed project is not a novel ambition, but a necessary one. UCSD students consistently 
bemoan the disintegrated, unenthused campus climate 
but any efforts to reinvent this “socially dead” campus will falter while the six-college system continues to exist. 
Chris Robertson   crr015@ucsd.edu▶ COLLEGES , from page 4
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
It’s a bit difficult summarizing four thoroughly and 
consistently wild years here at this ol’ UCSD Guardian office, 
but I’ll try, because I’m nothing if not a man of the people. It 
all started when I checked out a Guardian recruitment event 
my freshman year following the combination of two factors: sheer boredom and an earnest recommendation from a suitemate. Bless that boy and each tennis ball he gives a good 
whacking to. Sure, he may never read this or know how to 
read in the first place, but had he never suggested this holy organization — a space that sanctifies the principles of student journalism, agency, and whining — the Sam I currently am would be disappearing into the ether like a more attractive, 
ethnic Marty McFly.
That would be bad.
Instead, here I am four years later coming away slightly 
more experienced in: writing, stress, editing, disillusionment, 
and procrastination, but it wasn’t just me on this cromulent 
ride. I’ve formed some of my closest relationships here in the darkest of times (a now distant retreat to the Nevadan hellscape) and had some of the best damn pancakes I’ve ever had on our office griddle. Among the fine faces I’ve had the pleasure of meeting and arguing with here are an Italian philosopher with the boorish manners of a Y alie, a geriatric 
giant from Cape Town, a scientist with a peculiar interest 
in worldwide epidemics, and a baseball fan under the age of 40. Y es, the people here are and look peculiar, but peculiarly enough, that’s what kept me here these four years.
Although I may be graduating without the glint of hope 
I had in my eyes as a freshman, I can at least say that I have a lot more confidence in my successors than a certain King Lear. The youth have got it down. As long as Chris isn’t swept away by a strong breeze, he should do well leading the paper 
into the brave new future of the 2018-2019 school year. If the 
wind does indeed whisk him away, I’m confident that Lauren will do a great job glowering — if not guilting — people into submission. As for A&E, Chloe and Daisy will be great editors. 
Hell, their initials are “CD” — they’re music and movie-
oriented to their very core circa 2001. Never quit questioning authority. Thank you people of the Guardian; it’s been a damn fine four years.
Joining the UCSD Guardian was undeniably the 
best thing I have ever done in my life. Those past four years have been filled with surprise, excitement, and to be honest, a lot of stress. I have spent a lot of time at UC San Diego on the second floor of the original 
Student Center, getting much of my work done there 
and spending time with the many people who make this organization extraordinary.
To Brandon, Charu, and Lauren, who first recruited 
me, I thank you for putting your faith in me. To Daniel and Gary, I thank you for staying on in sports and supporting me. To Andrew, Vincent, Tina, and Sam, thank you for believing in me and what I could do at the paper and taking this journey with me. To Lauren 
and Chris, I know you guys will be great here and will 
carry on the tradition of this paper proudly and aptly. To my mains Alex, Caroline, Brittney, Annika, Aleya, Jojo, and Quinn, thank you for being there with me through it all. You are all very special to me and made my experience at the paper infinitely better.
This paper has changed my life. I found my voice 
between the lines published every week, honed skills as an editor in the past three years, and was the proud leader of the paper for the past two. This experience has made me a better writer and allowed me to meet 
the most interesting people UCSD has to offer. I am 
so incredibly grateful for these past four years. I will miss this office, the people, and the paper. I will miss everything about it, good and bad. I wish the best to the next generation of the G; you will be great. I’ll 
always have those past four years, and I will forever be 
proud to have been a member of the Guardian.
Everytime I think about The Guardian I think about all the 
times I talked about wanting to be handcuffed by Tinder dates 
during production. It was time well spent.
It’ s kind of funny — I hate writing. I spent every day of middle 
and high school dreading the hour-long block my English class resided in, praying for some deus ex machina that involved the 
president signing an executive order that replaced all English 
classes with video-game time — or other things that I can’t mention in a school newspaper, but I digress. 
“I can’t wait till I’m in college, ” I would tell myself, looking for 
any way to cope. “ After I finish my GEs, I’ll never write ever again. ”
Y et here I am writing my senior send-off for the campus 
newspaper I spent three years working at, two of which I worked as the sports editor. One would expect that at some point I reached an epiphany, some mythical moment where something 
just clicked and I thought, “Y eah, I love writing and I never 
want to stop. ” That moment never came, as my career trajectory remains on a computer-science-heavy path that is unlikely to change, but I learned to find pleasure in everything I worked on. W orking here helped me realize my voice and how to build upon 
it. But why did I spend three years of my life here, and why should 
anyone else do the same?
In short: the people. Nowhere else would I have met the 
weird, varied, and interesting people whom I have worked with over the years. Perhaps I would have met other interesting casts 
of characters in another establishment, but I wouldn’t have met 
these people. 
At a time when I felt out of place in many of the groups I 
worked with, I found a group of people — a family — that took 
me in and let me be my weird, monster of a person without (too 
much) judgment. I found a place that allowed me to hide from my technically heavy curriculum, decompress, and attack the world again with newfound energy. I met people that challenged me to be better, forced me to rethink who I was, and ultimately changed 
me and my viewpoint on life — for the better. 
I may never want to write another f------ game summary ever 
again, but I wouldn’t trade my time at the Guardian for anything 
else.  
senior
sam  velazquez:    editor  in  chief
alex  wu:    sports  editormarcus  thuillier:    Editor  in  chiefSendoffs • • •FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
After four years of working at the UCSD Guardian, I am 
excited to actually be writing for it! Since my very first quarter 
at UC San Diego, I have been contributing to the business side 
of the paper — communicating with UCSD departments and 
local San Diego businesses to coordinate the advertisements that you see both in print and on our website. But I also spent a year living by the Associated Press Stylebook as a copy reader! 
I enjoyed all of my roles at the Guardian and the experience 
definitely would not have been the same without some amazing people. First, I would like to thank Audrey Sechrest and Andrew Huang for bringing me on the advertising team and copy team, respectively. I learned so much from both of them and am grateful to have had their guidance. I would also like to thank our business manager Jennifer Mancano for keeping me on top of all things ads. Jen, thanks for answering 
my many questions and for always finding a way for us to get 
that last-minute ad in. And finally, shout-out to my fellow old-timer Marcus Thuillier for keeping me company in the office. Marcus, you are alright, I guess.
I am proud of what I was able to accomplish during my 
time here, and I am thankful for the friends who I have made because of the Guardian. Now, please look forward to all of the incredible things that I know our new advertising director Hejin Shin and the rest of the team will do next year!
After 3 years of threats, I finally quit. I miss Jose and Marcus was the only thing that got me through. 
#MyThoughtsAndPrayersAreWithY ouTina. *She exits the design room as “Vroom Vroom” by Charli XCX plays at full volume.*Just like every assignment I have done throughout my college 
career, I’m writing my very last UCSD Guardian article the day 
before it is due. Hey! I’m Melissa Palafox and I have been writing 
for the Guardian for three years. Sadly though, all good things 
must come to an end. I can’t go on to talk about my experience 
at the Guardian without first thanking Lifestyle editor and my 
good friend Brittney Lu for introducing me to the Guardian and encouraging me to apply. It was one of the best decisions I made in college, honestly.
I remember being instantly intrigued to join Arts & 
Entertainment because, heck, once I heard “free concerts, ” I was in. During my time in A&E, I have written album reviews, concert reviews, and “songs of the week” blurbs. I started during the Karly dynasty, lived through the Sam era, and ended my time in the 
Alicia period. Thank you all for helping me improve my writing and expand my music library! 
Of course, I can never stay in one place for too long. After a year 
or so in A&E, I joined forces with Yeji, Alice, and Alex to make up 
the marketing team of the Guardian. I mean, okay, we drove around 
campus on the cart giving out free coffee and newspapers … but 
our other plans are in the works. I am now passing the baton to 
Rachel and Carmela to continue spreading the Guardian name, and I know it is in good hands. Lastly, as I need to wrap this up, if I had to summarize my years at the Guardian with one event, it would be POOF, which was our own little Pocket Office open mic. I made 
it my mission to continue the tradition after my predecessor Peter 
graduated, which I did! So basically, in a nutshell, my experience writing and marketing for the Guardian was something I truly appreciated and will have me critically listening to music for the 
rest of my life.
Innocently and naively, it started with a desire to eat around San 
Diego and a fascination of leisure-based journalism. Little did she 
know that what began with a food review — of a now- shut-down sausage shop in Hillcrest to which she swears her article had no 
responsibility for, but that’s beside the point — would become a 
penultimate space for stories and shade alike. 
Food reviews have since segued into  snarky crusades against 
hegemonic, capitalist structures written into an advice column 
courtesy of The Christian Lifestyle. Not to mention a cornucopia of Golubkova-spearheaded surveys to investigate the reality of 
student lifestyles circulating finances, porn, and the like. Nor do we 
forget when 2016 editor-in-chief Vincent Pham donned a dress for a commentary on student fashion, or the series of stories told from the shores of the Philippines and the Bay Area, thanks to the script of Annika Olives. All of this was sprinkled with a Marcus-Thuillier flair of the occasional, yet endearing, jab at why San Diegans wear flip flops year-round. 
As for this one, she hopes the weekly spread was a safe space 
for amplified student voices and oxford commas. She — ashamedly 
— was never around on production days (except one lucky Sunday 
when pancakes were made via communal griddle), but learned from 
the G the importance of preserving, telling, and breaking stories. 
While there are still features of compensated meals in exchange 
for a 500-word piece, she hopes Lifestyle has been a home for a 
collective voice aiming to celebrate diversity through a team that 
has fluctuated from three to 12, with each member speaking at a different volume and frequency. It’s been a long, wandering way, and she’s sure there is only much more to come. 
melissa  palafox:    marketing   director
brittney  lu:      lifestyle  editorcaroline  lee:    advertising  director
aley a  zenieris:    design  editor
thank  you  to our  seniors!
A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
If you are a long-time follower of the “UCSD 
Memes for Sleep Deprived Tritons” Facebook page, 
you are aware that certain professors are subject to the strange meme culture of the internet. One of the original founding meme fathers is Professor John 
Eggers who teaches the Math 10 and 20 series. While 
I only had Eggers briefly as a freshman, I decided to meet him for coffee and ask some tough questions on everything from his students comments on Piazza to his favorite spots off campus. It’s Week 10, so let’s learn how to ace those finals and start summer on a pleasant note.
 In order to truly understand one of UC 
San Diego’s beloved math professors, let’s learn more 
about what made Professor Eggers the man he is 
today. One of the many reasons he is iconic is the fact he went to UCSD as an undergraduate! Being a native San Diegan, Professor Eggers has always loved the area and decided to continue his career at his alma mater. Before he started teaching, however, Professor Eggers served in the Navy for four years. He ultimately decided to return to academia and become one of the undergraduate community’s beloved professors. 
His passion for mathematics is evident and students 
always know that Eggers’ classroom is meant to be a collaborative learning environment. When he’s not on campus, Eggers can be found exploring Balboa Park and visiting family in Colorado during the summer.
Now that we have established context, its time 
to delve into the more important questions. When 
asked for his hilarious memes and witty responses to 
students on Piazza, Eggers seemed mildly unaware of his status as a meme but took his internet fame with a great pride. He later explained that he loves to engage with his students and finds that humor is one of the best ways to connect with them. Although he does love teaching, he compares the lecture hall to the stage of a comedy show because he says interacting with students is either hit or miss. Eggers also revealed 
the key to passing his class: “The 3 P’s: Patience, 
Persistence, and Politeness. ”  
While the calculus series might be tough, it’s 
always important to remember that  Professor Eggers wants nothing but the best for his students. He once was in our shoes and always encourages students to come to him for help when needed and to not stress but rather to “enjoy the journey. ” So next time you take a math class with him, don’t be shy and stop by 
office hours. Y ou can get help with derivatives and a 
good laugh, too!
The college experience is much more than receiving an education 
— it encompasses all the interesting things we do in and out of the classroom. Although it is difficult to define what makes the ultimate college experience, we all can be informed of the best resources offered at UC San Diego. Here’s a list of my favorite resources I 
utilized this school year:
1. Sunset Gazing at Gliderport CliffsLocation: Gliderport
One of my favorite de-stressors this year was watching sunsets 
at Gliderport cliffs. Each night, the La Jolla sky is painted with vibrant and captivating colors. Although it requires a good distance of walking, the breathtaking setting and illuminated vibes make it all worth it.2. Revelle’s secret garden 
Location: Building to the left of Housing Dining Hospitality 
headquarters on sixth floor
There is a plethora of hidden gardens on campus. As a modern 
nomad who loves to find uncongested hangout spots on campus, this is by far UCSD’s best kept secret. With its combination of low-profile ambience, minimalistic aesthetics, and bird’s eye view of La Jolla, it is the ideal place to escape all student responsibilities. 3. Farmer’s Market Location: Next to Price Center and Student Services center
One of my favorite gems at UCSD, the farmer’s market is readily available every Tuesday, serving affordable and culturally diverse dishes. As a college student who lives on campus, this resource is a necessity since eating at college dining halls can be unsatisfying and mundane. I highly recommend trying the chipotle chicken burrito from Belinda’s Mexican food booth — thank me later.
4. Triton Food Pantry 
Location: First floor of the original Student Center
As college students, we are all trying to save money (even if that 
means skipping a meal or two). Thanks to the Triton Food Pantry, students no longer have to struggle in
that way. The pantry offers student essentials such as bread, milk, 
ramen, and rice. No one should experience food insecurity, so stock up and take advantage.  5. La Jolla Playhouse
Location: Roger Revelle College’s entrance
In my opinion, this is the most underrated resource offered to 
students. The La Jolla Playhouse is a top-notch regional theater 
featuring broadway plays such as “The Donna Summers Musical” and “Escape to Margaritaville. ” Typically, tickets can be quite expensive but luckily students can purchase tickets for $10. I encourage everyone to attend at least one show to take advantage of this exclusive UCSD offer. 
Restaurants that are walking distance from campus can be 
incredibly helpful for those of us who do not want to venture too far for food. It can also be helpful to hang out with friends outside of campus without the transportation hassle that comes with leaving. This year, my friends and I tried to visit as many restaurants in the La Jolla Village Shopping Center as possible.  We almost reached our goal, so here are the top restaurants within walking distance of campus that have become our favorite options. Snooze, an AM Eatery 
Brunch is always a good idea, and Snooze does not disappoint. 
Not only does Snooze offer an extensive list of breakfast options, but most of their menu is affordable for the budget-conscious college student. This is the perfect place to get together with friends for cute brunch-themed Instagram posts. Be sure to make reservations if you don’t plan to wake up early, because this well-known brunch spot can fill up fast.  Daphne’s California Greek 
Although this is a chain, it is a pretty uncommon one for many 
students. This made the list because of its rewards program and the 
weekly discount options, which are perfect for a budgeting young adult. Options like the pita sandwich are perfect for quick lunch options when you’re on the go, but if you want to sit down and chat 
with friends, you can always choose the more traditional options like steak or salmon.  Whole Foods 
This is clearly not a restaurant, but the prepared food options 
in this grocery store have such variety that it couldn’t be left off this list. This choice is especially great for vegan or vegetarian students whose options are more limited when it comes to cheaper 
nearby restaurants. For those students, I would recommend any of 
the vegetarian or vegan sushi options. Although their selection is limited, the vegan pizza slices are also a great option as they’re cheap and surprisingly delicious. If meeting up with friends at a grocery store seems a bit weird, you can also try the actual restaurant that comes with a bar and more food options.  
These restaurant options are great for someone looking to go off 
campus without the hassle of truly “going off-campus. ” If you want to venture away from Price Center food for a change, any of the restaurants above would be great options.  Professor John Eggers: The 
Man. The Meme. The Legend.
The Best of UCSD
Best Restaurants within Walking Distance 
of UCSDby Natalie Duprey//Sta ff Writer
by Fred Grier // Sta ff Writer
by Samirah Martinez//Sta ff Writer
Photo courtesy of Artur Vilenskiy from the UCSD Meme PageLIFESTYLE                                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  J U N E  4 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
 Be one in a million
It’s our di fferences that can make the 
difference in medical breakthroughs. 
For more information:
Call: (858) 265-1711
Email: allofus@ucsd.edu 
&+%*((+"1/ċ+.#
Visit us Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.  
All of Us Clinic  
UC San Diego School of Medicine
9500 Gilman Drive, Building 851
La Jolla, CA 92093
Behind the Medical Education and Telemedicine Building
All of Us and t he All of Us logo are  service marks of the   
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.You will receive
compensation of
$25 after  
you complete
your visitLocated across the street from 
a comic bookstore, steak and fries 
shop, and a tattoo parlor, Bub’s at the Beach is an open-air bar and restaurant serving an array 
of comfort food with a Southern 
Californian flair. And we would expect nothing less from a bar in Pacific Beach. 
Just like its surrounding 
neighborhood, Bub’s has a bit of everything. Immediately upon entering, the eclectic decorations — including “Stranger Things” inspired stringed Christmas lights, surfboards on the ceiling, and tiger print seating — catch 
the eye, and surround sound of 
every imaginable genre of music overflow into Garnet Avenue. TVs are noticeably mounted along every inch of wall space and play anything from baseball to poker, but if varsity voyeurship isn’t your style, Bub’s open space layout offers board games, table shuffleboard, and giant 
Jenga as well. However, despite it 
being a Friday night in June, the atmosphere was a bit on the still side. 
As for beverages, they offer 
a wide sample of beers, wines, mules, mixed drinks, and even non-alcoholic options for those who are there simply for the 
community, which was relatively 
intergenerational. They also do not provide plastic straws, a major plus for those who are on a fiery crusade against all things unsustainable.
The menu offers signature 
staples done in SoCal fashion, like Cauliflower “wings, ” quinoa bowls, 
and salads for the health-conscious, 
though we didn’t touch any of that on our Friday night visit. We might live in California, but no need to always eat like a local. Plus, their motto is as follows: “Because sometimes you don’t feel like going to a nice place to eat, ” so no need for romaine and kale on this occasion. 
Instead, we opted for their tater 
skin tots ($12.50) — deep fried little pockets of potato, topped with bacon bits, blanketed in cheddar and topped with sour cream and scallions. Our arteries were screaming, but the momentary bliss of these crunchy, cheesy bites were well worth the high cholesterol. A word to the wise: eat these first, and quickly, the cheese hardens over time, and the tots can get a bit soggy, for lack of a better word. 
Simultaneously, we ordered 
the good egg and bacon burger ($14) with a side of crinkle-cut fries and a half order of chicken wings drenched in the Archie sauce ($7.50). The burger was none the better than something you would find at In-N-Out, although, the fried egg was on a divine level, leaps and bounds beyond a humble Egg McMuffin. However, the fries fall flat in comparison to the tater tots 
offered at Bub’s. The wings however, 
deviate from traditional cooking methods that make you feel a lot better about eating the tots. Grilled and tossed in a backstabbing sauce that tastes like honey mustard at first and then slowly leaves a flame at the back of the throat, the wings were a bit messy to eat, but then 
again, you don’t always feel like 
going to a nice place to eat, no?
This finger food, fine dining 
experience was capped with a pretzel of epic proportions — the Cinna Fun Pretzel ($9.50) was no bite-sized treat, but a marathon of decadent dough paired with a warm Nutella dipping sauce. Just when 
you think you can’t eat anymore, 
this colossal creation approaches your table and all you can do is take a brief lap around the bar and try your best. (Spoiler alert: we finished it.)
Overall, the food was exactly 
what would be expected of a 
beachside bar, with a fun menu 
serving specials such as Russian Roulette Wings and a Solo Cup Sundae. The service was incredibly warm and friendly; at one point, our dining experience centered around a heated conversation about season two of “Riverdale” with our waitress. Though we aren’t exactly the target 
audience for a “sports bar, ” Bub’s 
felt inclusive and comfortable, and serves as a perfect space to bask in beer (for the 21 and over crowd) after a day at the beach. Since my transition from the Bay Area to San Diego last fall, I 
have learned several characteristics about friends — most come and go, some stay, and a few will attend your important life events. 
When I first moved to San Diego, I was very fortunate to have 
been assigned to live in an apartment of people with whom I clicked 
really well. Because of our compatibility, we would get late-night 
food runs, support each other whenever we needed help, and even 
dressed up as the Scooby-Doo gang for Halloween. I felt as if I made 
some sincere friends through the short two months we lived together until Housing, Dining, Hospitality relocated and separated us. Slowly, we drifted apart since we do not live in close proximity and eventually became busy with our own lives. Our group chat slowly 
died, our weekly hangouts at the Bistro silently vanished, and our 
relationship turned from friends to strangers. I saw one of my former apartmentmates walking out from a building I was about to enter, but I chose not to greet her because I knew only a generic “How are you doing?” conversation would be said. Initially, I was sad to know that our friendships were drifting apart, but I understand that is how life works. When either parties do not make an effort to maintain contact, relationships can drift apart. 
However, there are other friends who treat you like family and 
will make you feel like not a day has been lost, even when you have not spoken for months. I am very fortunate to have found several of these friends even when we do not live close by or see each other often. I still clearly remember the day when I became very ill and passed out several times last quarter; I called my friend and she immediately volunteered to drive me to the hospital and waited until my appointment with the physician ended. Another friend 
constantly came to my door and brought me comfort food when I 
told her I had an infection and fever. When I went through a horrible 
breakup, another friend invited me over to her apartment to listen 
to me cry my eyes out and binge shows to distract me. Though they were small actions, they showed me that I will always have a support system whenever I need it. Moving so far away from the Bay Area was not easy in the beginning, but my friends make me feel safe and 
welcome even though I am over 400 miles away from my family. 
Friendships are very magical. Though I met most of these 
close friends through my classes, I met one through striking a 
conversation while walking to Canyon Vista, reconnected with a classmate from community college, and got to know one via mutual friends. The point is, I learned to become more open when meeting someone new. I used to be a very quiet person who would not start a conversation with a stranger, but nowadays, I can causally begin talking with a classmate sitting next to me, usually about our 
suffering regarding the class. Who knows, maybe the person sitting 
in front of you in class will one day be the godparent of your child.
Bub’s at the BeachYour Friends May Not Be Your Friends
by Annika Olives//
Lifestyle Editor and Brittney Lu//Associate 
Lifestyle Editorby Rebecca Tsang//Contributing Writer
Address: 1030 Garnet Ave San Diego, 
CA 92109Hours: Monday-Friday 11:30 a.m. to 2 a.m., Saturday through Sunday 10:00 a.m. to 2 a.m.Happy Hour: Sunday through Friday 3-6 p.m.
photos courtesy of Annika Olives and Brittney Lu
10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
Though Maya is a mere second year, she has decided to 
leave the nest of the Guardian for the birdhouse that is Pomona 
College. In her time here, though, she has managed to be a successful writer and associate editor for A&E, paralleling her qualities of dedication and go-get-’ em attitude. She is known for 
her eclectic aesthetic that ranges from denim jackets and hoop 
earrings to fun peasant skirts, as well as her cool demeanor that’s punctuated with clever asides. We’ll miss Maya’s dedicated work and witty wordplay here at the Guardian, but at least she leaves us with these recommendations and an apparent lack of understanding of what “Top 10” means.
Top 10 Films:• “ Annie Hall”• “Harold and Maude”
• “Birdman”
• “Whiplash”• “La La Land”• “Love and Death”• “The Breakfast Club”• “Dirty Dancing”• “Lady Bird”• “Fiddler on the Roof ”
Top 10 Books:
• “Swann’s Way” by Marcel Proust• “Franny and Zooey” by J.D. Salinger• “ A Portrait of the Artist as a Y oung Man” by James 
Joyce
• “The Sun Also Rises” by Ernest Hemingway
• “Beloved” by Toni Morrison 
• “Candide” by Voltaire• “Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close” by Jonathan 
Safran Foer
• “Slaughterhouse 5” by Kurt Vonnegut• “Catcher in the Rye” by J.D. Salinger• “1001 Yiddish Proverbs” by Fred Kogos
Top 13 Albums:
• “The Idler Wheel..." by Fiona Apple
• “Hounds of Love” by Kate Bush• “The Kick Inside” by Kate Bush • “Court and Spark” by Joni Mitchell• “Crime of the Century” by Supertramp• “Tea for the Tillerman” by Cat Stevens• “The Dark Side of the Moon” by Pink Floyd• “Vulnicura” by Bjork• “The Doors” by The Doors
• “ All Things Must Pass” by George Harrison
• “Tapestry” by Carole King• “Bookends” by Simon and Garfunkel• “ Abbey Road” by The BeatlesMelissa Palafox has been a writer for A&E for three years 
and on the Marketing team for one, all while working part time at UCSD’s chipotle-style restaurant, Goody’s. Aside from being a triple threat, her hobbies include scrolling through memes and listening to the same songs until she grows tired 
of them. We don’t know if she was any good as any employee 
at Goody’s, but we do know that she was a great one at The Guardian.
Top 10 Songs (of the moment):• “Paradise” by Daniel Caesar (feat. 
BADBADNOTGOOD & Sean Leon)
• “New Light” by John Mayer
• “May” by Jordan Rakei
• “Broken Clocks” by SZA
• “Homage” by Mild High Club
• “Space Oddity” by David Bowie
• “Moodna, Once With Grace” by Gus Dapperton
• “Self Control” by Frank Ocean
• “Cadet Limbo” by King Krule
• “Perfect Day” by Lou Reed
Top 10 Films (in no particular order):• “The Secret Life of W alter Mitty”
• “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind”
• “Unbroken”
• “Inception”
• “The Breakfast Club”
• Any “Star W ars” movie (including the anthology 
films, excluding “The Phantom Menace”)
• “Fight Club”
• “Forrest Gump”
• “Coco”
• “La La Land”
Although Promita has been part of the UCSD Guardian since 
she was a sophomore, she recently chose to venture beyond News 
and lend her talents to Arts & Entertainment as well. Always a fan of analyzing movies and other forms of art, Promita’s brief career as an A&E writer has been an illustrious one, providing covers on major 
franchise features like “ Avengers: Infinity W ar” and “Deadpool. ” 
While she doesn’t like to pick favorites, she offers her insight by identifying these as some of the most memorable things she’s read and seen. 
Top 10 T V Shows:•  “Sherlock”
• “Game of Thrones”
• “At t a c k  o n  T i t a n”
• “Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood • “Criminal Minds”
• “Doctor Who”
• “The Magicians”
• “Stranger Things”
• “Once Upon A Time”
• “White Collar”
Top 10 B ooks:
• “His Dark Materials” trilogy by Philip Pullman
• “A m u l e t  o f  S a m a r k a n d ”  b y  J o n a t h a n  S t r o u d
• “Ptolemy’s Gate” by Jonathan Stroud
• “13 Reasons Why” by Jay Asher
• “Crime and Punishment” by Fyodor Dostoevsky
• “Eragon” by Christopher Paolini
• “The Eight” by Katherine Neville
• “The Lost Symbol” by Dan Brown
• “Shadows of the Wind” by Dan Brown
• “The Book Thief” by Markus ZusakA&E 
SeniorSend Off
Melissa Palafox
Derek Deng Alicia LeplerSam Velazquez Maya Kleiman
Promita Nandy
An A&E veteran, Derek has championed the cause 
of opinionated reasoning since 2015. A physiology and 
neuroscience major, Derek also enjoys boxing, participating in laughable attempts at parkour, and reading anything of the science fiction and fantasy varieties. Despite his 
predilection for B and B+ ratings in his critiques, we can 
safely say that using even his strict grading scale, Derek is an A+.
Top 10 Films:• “The Lord of the Rings” trilogy•  “Ratatouille”•  “The Godfather Part II”• “Inception”•  “The Dark Knight”
• “Raiders of the Lost Ark”
•  “Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black 
Pearl”
•  “My Neighbor Totoro”• “No Country for Old Men”• “Blade Runner 2049”A dedicated Guardian writer, Alicia worked her way 
up from being an A&E staff writer, to editorial assistant, to her crowning achievement of editor of A&E this last year. An effortless wordsmith and a friend of Faulkner, Alicia is known for her wit and an expanse of pop culture 
knowledge, allowing her to participate in even the strangest 
of conversations. Her hobbies include being the Guardian’s resident Dungeons and Dragons aficionado, and maintaining a good name for the rare unicorns that are literature majors at UCSD. 
Top 10 Things:• “Dubliners” by James Joyce
• “Deadwood”
• “The Rules of the Game”
• “The Hobbit” by J. R. R. T olkien
• “Hiroshima mon amour”
• “The Left Hand of Darkness” by Ursula Le Guin
• “The Big Lebowski”
• “Children on a Country Road” by Franz Kafka• “Romancero Gitano” by Federico García Lorca
• “Star Wars: Episode IV”Sam’s illustrious Netflix queue has catapulted him straight 
to the top of the Guardian ranks, where he’s served as editor-in-chief for the last year (past credits include Arts & Entertainment editor). He is a true history major at heart, using his knowledge for good rather than evil by constantly confusing his peers 
with obscure references. With a penchant for witty Instagram 
captions, “Twin Peaks, ” argumentation, and the word “auteur, ” Sam lives and breathes A&E. The only thing Sam loves more than brunch is quoting Kanye West, and so we’ll oblige, because “[Sam] loves [The Guardian] like Kanye loves Kanye. ” 
Top 10 Films:• “Wild at Heart”• “The Tree of Life”• “Punch-Drunk Love”
• “Spring Breakers”
• “The Long Goodbye”• “Eyes Wide Shut”• “Terminator 2: Judgment Day”• “ A Field in England”• “Shame”
• “Blow Out”
Top 10 Albums:
• “Y eezus” by Kanye West
• “Love Deluxe” by Sade• “Blonde” by Frank Ocean• “Slowdive” by Slowdive• “Hounds of Love” by Kate Bush• “808s & Heartbreak” by Kanye West
• “E•MO•TION” by Carly Rae Jepsen
• “Jai Paul” by Jai Paul• “Diamond Life” by Sade• “Teen Dream” by Beach House
Top 10 Books:
• TV Guide
Top 10 Shows:
• “The Simpsons”
• “Rectify”• “Twin Peaks”• “Mad Men”• “The Leftovers”• “The Americans”• “Curb Y our Enthusiasm”• “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia”• “Horace & Pete”
• “ American Crime Story: The People v. OJ Simpson”A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Monday
June 11th
10pmUC San Diego occupies a particular 
academic persona. With an eclectic 
array of specialized studies and an 
acclaimed stronghold in science, 
technology, engineering, and math, it 
is an institution still seeking a cohesion 
of its assets. UCSD’s academic 
singularity is perhaps nowhere as 
evident as in its Division of Arts and Humanities. Home to a curriculum 
that is largely unparalleled and faced 
with a university revenue driven by the sciences, the arts and humanities 
have struggled to find their place in 
UCSD’s STEM-centric environment. 
Former Dean of Arts and Humanities and current Distinguished Professor 
of Literature Seth Lerer has been 
both a witness to and instigator of 
UCSD’s humanistic evolution. The 
UCSD Guardian sat down with Lerer 
to discuss the essence and prospect of 
the arts at UCSD.
Lerer first came to UCSD in 
2009 after having taught at Stanford University for 19 years, and at 
Princeton University for nine years 
prior. His career has been a product of 
his innate fascination with literature, 
and an ode to his affinity for academia. 
“I was one of those insufferable 
children who was very interested 
in what he was interested in, ” Lerer 
reminisced. “I knew what I wanted to do when I was 14 years old ... I found 
myself in books, [and] I more than 
liked reading and writing. ... And, I 
liked the study of the past, not simply 
because it was an escape, but because 
it went on in different languages, or in 
different codes, or in different ways. 
It was like visiting another country. ” 
While his interests and motivations have evolved since his adolescence, 
Lerer’s literary passion has defined the 
trajectory of his career –– from his 
teenaged fixation with “Beowulf” to 
his current research in Shakespeare 
and the roles of art and artistic culture 
in the political world. “I think the 
relevance of what I do is that it helps explain in a historical way, many of the 
things that we would like to resolve, or 
[that] we debate today, especially in art 
and culture, and especially at a time 
when ... depending on your politics, 
one might believe that we are living 
in a uniquely … unartistic world of 
power. ” 
Over the course of his five-and-
a-half-year tenure as dean, Lerer became familiar with UCSD’s arts 
departments, and their inherent eccentricities: “ Arts and humanities at 
UCSD has really always been, in my 
view, a boutique, or niche, operation. 
… Many of the departments have a particular methodology or approach 
or take that unifies, or tries to unify the 
curriculum. But the curriculum is not 
driven according to specific canonical 
expectations of coverage. So that means 
you have some very idiosyncratic 
departments. ” This departmental 
specialization complicates the 
potential measurability of UCSD’s arts and humanities against their more 
traditional collegiate counterparts. 
The arts at UCSD are largely 
modeled after conservatories, with 
an emphasis on performance. “Our 
theatre, our music, and our visual arts 
departments seem largely concerned 
with the making and production 
of new work, the performance of current work, and the aesthetics of 
the contemporary. They’re not about 
theatre history, or art history, or 
music history or musicology, largely 
speaking, ” Lerer explained. 
The departments’ commitment to 
creative output and production has 
distinguished UCSD as a prominent 
destination for aspiring artists. “Our arts –– the arts at UCSD –– at its best, 
is the making and the performance 
of new art. And for those students, 
faculty, and community members who 
want that, this is an extremely good 
place for them, ” Lerer said.
This concentration on the 
contemporary poses challenges to those committed to traditional forms 
of expression. And the UCSD arts 
programs in particular have been 
upheld by an autonomous faculty. 
This individualistic dynamic has 
championed the cause of academic 
freedom. "The challenge at UCSD 
is that you have a very independent 
faculty that may need to think about philanthropy in a new way."
The arts programs at UCSD have 
been upheld by an autonomous arts faculty. This individualistic dynamic 
has championed the cause of academic 
freedom, but it has also amplified 
the divide between UCSD’s arts programs and their potential sources 
of funding. “The challenge at UCSD 
is that you have a very independent 
faculty that, for a variety of reasons 
–– economic, social, institutional –– 
has to reconfigure itself as a faculty 
motivated by philanthropy, ” Lerer said. 
Lerer recognizes the potential for 
this development in the faculty’s keen ability to engage new audiences as 
well as create artistic products. “We 
have performers here like Steve Schick, 
who’s a world-renowned percussionist, 
who also leads the La Jolla Symphony, 
and is very much involved in an 
educational mission of bringing avant-
garde or contemporary performance 
to a public in a teaching way, ” Lerer said. Schick is a remarkable example 
of the faculty’s capacity to translate 
new material into opportunities for 
edification, and consequently garner 
broader scopes of support.
Lerer believes that UCSD must 
make the cultivation of undergraduate 
identity a priority in order to stimulate 
an artistic culture within its student body. This endeavor presents certain 
challenges, such as the campus’ 
geographical isolation from both La 
Jolla and San Diego that are outside of 
the university’s control. However, Lerer 
foresees the augmentation of UCSD’s 
cultural climate. “The campus, I think, 
is looking for a way to build a culture of affinity and belonging among the 
undergraduates, ” Lerer said. “I feel very 
strongly that you need leadership from 
the top, to show that that’s important, ” 
he added. UCSD’s authoritative 
voices are comprised predominantly 
by members of the STEM 
community, and the enhancement of 
undergraduate community has not traditionally been at the forefront 
of this administration’s agenda. 
Lerer anticipates a fundamental, institutionalized incorporation of arts 
participation into undergraduate life, 
and the simultaneous construction of 
a campus that mirrors this dynamic. 
For Lerer, humanities-oriented 
innovation is not contingent upon top-down renovation, but rather, a 
promotion of the campus’ intrinsic 
strengths. “The thing about UCSD, 
is if anything’s going to happen, it 
has to be done by the people here, 
whether it’s the students or the faculty. 
The most interesting and productive interdisciplinary activities that I 
experienced were faculty driven, ” 
Lerer said. One successful product of 
an interdisciplinary dynamic during 
Lerer’s tenure was the Arthur C. Clarke 
Center for the Imagination. The center 
is a partnership between UCSD and 
the foundation dedicated to Arthur C. 
Clarke, an internationally renowned author who embodied the spirit of 
interdisciplinarity in his dual careers 
of science fiction writing and science. 
“The idea was –– and this was largely 
driven by a few faculty members here 
–– Let’s find a way of bringing together 
the things that are most characteristic 
about this place in arts and technology. 
And these include: strong commitment to digital technology and culture, a 
fascination with and powerful research 
program in cognitive science, [and] a 
culture of innovation and creativity. ” 
This academic consilience merged 
faculty from a diversity of humanities 
and STEM departments including 
visual arts, theater, music, cognitive science, medicine, and engineering. 
More recently, this cross-disciplinary 
initiative has facilitated the creation of 
UCSD’s program in practical ethics. 
The program is a collaborative effort 
by UCSD’s philosophy department, 
medical community, and the Stem 
Cell Institute to integrate the study of 
ethics into the practice of medicine 
and biotechnology. 
However, the pursuit of this 
academic synthesis also faces challenges, particularly when driven 
by external influences. Some of Lerer’s 
integrative efforts as dean, such as the 
potential development of a program 
in medical humanities, were met with 
resistance. “This is the lesson I learned, ” 
Lerer stated. “ ... interdisciplinarity on this campus has to be organic. Y ou 
can’t just say, let’s be interdisciplinary. ”
The arts at UCSD are evolving, 
and Lerer is confident in their unique 
capacities. “I don’t think [the arts 
at UCSD] need to compromise, ” he 
said. “But I do think they need to 
reach out in a more educational way. 
And that process will probably take a generation. I think it’ll probably be 
20 years. ” UCSD, here’s to the next 20 
years.  
— May a  Kleiman
A&E Associate EditorProfessor Seth Lerer refl ects on UC San Diego’s 
unique academic and cultural identity, and en-
visions its future. State of the Arts: Lerer
photos courtesy of Seth Lerer12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
TRITONS,
I’M NOT FEELING
SO GOOD...
TRITON OUTFITTERSWEEK TENT SALE
TUES-THURS, 10AM-3PM1 Month FREE!
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/18.
Quick & Easy – Rent Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours: 7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours: 6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.com /ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
Comedian Ali W ong returns as the hilarious, hard-core, and knocked-up “Hard Knock Wife. ” 
Since the release of her Netflix stand-
up debut “Baby Cobra” in 2016, Ali Wong 
has skyrocketed to well-deserved success, 
solidifying her signature earthy humor in the 
stand-up world. Two years ago, she occupied the stage with sharp jokes, raunchy expletives, and a matter-of-fact persona — all while seven-
months pregnant, a rare yet transgressive 
combination to see. Keeping in tradition with her latest special, “Hard Knock Wife” , the plain-spoken comic sustains that usual acerbic wit and baby bump, tackling the challenges of 
motherhood, the maturation of her marriage 
and sex life, and the changes to her lifestyle due to fame. 
This special is rife with lewd and 
promiscuous farce. In one memorable bit, Wong explains the unembellished truth of every mother’s soul-wrenching childbirth experience. Under impressive delivery and storytelling, she unabashedly details the excruciating process. She goes on to highlight the explicit aftermath 
of her and her female friend’s labor, like the 
faint pain of their C-section stitches, the strenuous technicalities of breastfeeding, and the damage recovery needed on their genitalia, 
describing her fellow sufferer’s as “meat curtains 
dragging on the floor” and “two hanging [d----]. ” Her prevalent use of vulgar language is so comically specific, describing how her best friend’s angelic, pre-parturition demeanor 
turned rancorous after the agonizing blow of the 
delivery. The unappealing, minute descriptions are what make her anecdotes so hysterically visceral and relatable. Unafraid to tell it like it is, 
Wong explosively voices every mother’s plight, 
“this is why women need maternity leave!” as the audience erupts into laughter and applause. The humorous yet painstaking narratives have palpable catharsis, which gives this comedy show so much spark. 
With her fierce and racy persona, Wong 
has also projected a pioneering representation for Asian-American women in comedy. She parades the stage with loud opinion and 
outrage, critiquing racial archetypes and reciting 
stories from her immigrant family that had the audience giggling out of agreeing realization. Y et, she gives in to stereotypes, like quipping about the frequent “ Asian female-white male” 
pairing with an opening zinger, “wow, thank 
you to all the Asian American women of the Bay Area who brought their white boyfriends tonight. ” These precise and direct strikes make 
her set even more amusing and alluring.
Though Wong frequently expounds on being 
a mother and a woman, it’s clear that she does not want those titles to define her whole career. 
Instead, she integrates her lived experience of personal and work life to fuel her comedic 
stories and to connect with her more mature 
audiences. It is invigorating to see a comedienne admit to the difficulties in bouncing back to work with maternal responsibilities. It’s also 
incredibly strengthening to watch Wong with 
yet another pregnant glow, performing the crude, audacious comedy she loves. 
“Hard Knock Wife” is an out-and-out 
hilarious stand-up special. The rich and bawdy 
sense of humor may not be everyone’s taste, 
but it will certainly have more than enough viewers in stitches. There is no doubt that we will be seeing more from her fierce and talented 
majesty, Ali Wong. 
—  Ashley Chen
Staff Writer
TV  REVIEW
Ali Wong: Hard Knock Wife
PHOTO COURTESY OF GEEKS OF COLOR
Directed by   Jay Karas
Starring  Ali Wong
Release Date  May 13, 2018
Rated  TV-MACB+CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
UCSD FREQUENCY PRESENTS:  LOVE HERTZTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
JUN 4 - JUN 102018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN TUESDAY, JUNE 5
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
1pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR 
FORUM - GSA LOUNGE, ORIGINAL 
STUDENT CENTER
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This forum will provide a supportive space to discuss various topics from a multicultural lens, which includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with your adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, family responsibilities, relationships (romantic or social),multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Join us for guided meditation, Thursdays from 
10-10:30 am! A practice to help increase focus and concentration, reduce stress and gain a sense of well-being. Whether or not you have ever meditated, you may enjoy this sampling of techniques as they guide you to the blissful silence behind thoughts. Seated, standing, lying down and moving techniques may be covered. Suitable for all levels of experience. All classes with Vou Athens. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS AND 
CRAFTS - CROSS-CULTURAL 
CENTER
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it is a picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All supplies are provided. All are welcome! Contact: vigonzales@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: MOVE 
YOUR BODY TONE YOUR MIND - 
MURRAY’S PLACE, STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES CENTER
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcome! Yoga mats are provided! Contact: diquach@ucsd.eduTUE6.05
THU6.07MON6.04
9:30am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - 
COMMUTER LOUNGE, PRICE 
CENTER 
University Centers Presents: Destress Mondays. 
TEA, SNACKS, BLISS. Make your Mondays the 
day to recharge and refresh to begin your week 
with a bright start! De-stressors will be 
provided to help you get going for your day such 
as refreshments, food, and more! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: PEACE OF 
MIND MONDAYS - GALBRAITH 
HALL ROOM 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but 
do you wish to learn how to navigate them 
better? In Peace of Mind workshops, you learn 
how to live in the moment, manage your 
emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness 
and identify what is really important in your life. 
Contact: plamatya@ucsd.edu
6pm
EDUCATION PROFESSIONS PANEL - 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PC 
WEST
The Public Service Minor has invited education 
professionals to share their insights and 
experiences with you on what it means to 
CONNECT PASSION TO ACTION in education! If 
you are interested in learning more about it 
what it means to make a difference in or beyond 
the classroom setting, then this panel is for you.
10am
OASIS @ THE ZONE - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come Fridays from 10 am - 12 pm for tutoring 
provided by Oasis! No appointment needed! Subjects offered are Math (10 & 20 series), Chemistry (4,6,7L too), Organic Chemistry, and Writing (peer review, outlines, rough drafts). Study supplies provided. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
5pm
OPEN MIC: WOMEN OF COLOR 
ACTIVISM - ANGELA'S SPACE, 
MARSHALL COLLEGE
UCSD's TMC 87: Women of Color Activism is 
hosting an Open Mic Night at Angela's Space celebrating women of color in activism, with an emphasis on the power and importance of "breaking the silence." Come perform or listen to fellow students read personal or selected works from the likes of Angela Davis, Yuri Kochiyama, Dolores Huerta, and more! SIGN-UPS TO PERFORM: https://goo.gl/forms/RDb6iUMpF6H9S5CE2Contact: nnt007@ucsd.eduFRI6.08
3pm
RAINBOW GRADUATION - IDA 
AND CECIL B. GREEN FACULTY 
CLUB
Rainbow Graduation serves as the formal 
induction of the graduates into the family of the UC San Diego LGBTQIA+ Alumni. It’s a time for folks to come together to honor the students who are graduating, our volunteers, our scholarship recipients and all who have impacted our community during their time here at UC San Diego. To register for Rainbow Graduation (its FREE) go to this link: http://www.facebook.com/events/211380406097764/https. Contact: ggranitt@ucsd.eduSAT6.09
TAKE THE ZONE ANNUAL SURVEY! - 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Take our Zone Annual Survey! We want to hear from you! Have a suggestion or comment about The Zone? Or haven’t been to the Zone ever? We’d love to hear from both sides. Follow this link: www.zone.ucsd.edu/survey, to complete the survey! You will be entered for a chance to win a $50 gift card and weekly prizes. Contact: zone@ucsd.eduSUN6.10WED6.06STUDENT SERVICES CENTER • 7:30PM
12pm
MULSIM'S SISTER'S COMMUNITY 
FORUM - THURGOOD MARSHALL 
COLLEGE (TMC ) ADMIN BUILDING, 
ROOM 126
Join us for conversations about our experiences 
as Muslim women and connect with other Muslim 
sisters on campus. This forum will provide an 
open and supportive space for members to discuss various topics, which may include family and gender roles and challenges, cultural and religious identity, romantic relationships, discrimination, conflict resolution, well-being, & etc. Dr. Sheva Assar and Asmaa Deiranieh, a Wellness Peer Educator, both identify as Muslim women and will facilitate this community conversation. Contact: sassar@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: TRAIN 
YOUR BRAIN - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Come to The Zone for a free one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. Check out the Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! Contact: psavaiano@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: 
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY LIVING - 
MURRAY'S PLACE, STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES CENTER
Mindfulness meditation has been shown to be 
effective for reducing stress, anxiety, depression and increasing a sense of inner peace and contentment. Dr. Elise Curry has maintained a daily meditation practive for 18 years and attended professional training programs for mindfulness.
Contact: ecurry@ucsd.edu
HAVE
SUM
MERA
GREAT14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CONGRATULATIONS GRADS!
CLASS OF 2018CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. eginning or attack
6. Levels11. Male turkey
14. Darn again
15. Alluded to
16. Before, once17. Tenpins’ path19. Johnny’s network
20. Memorable TV miniseries
21. Certain button
23. Early assembly-line items27. Classic Nabokov novel28. Ultimatum ender
29. Publicity seekers’ acts
31. Olive and palm, for two
32. Cook-off dish33. Web address ending36. E-mail chuckle
37. Sit tight
39. Accolade for a bullfighter
40. Santa --- winds41. Uses a Smith Corona42. Spades or clubs43. Object of Jimmy Buffett’s search45. Go on a hunger strike47. Properly pitched49. Nature’s alarm clock50. Called one’s bluff51. It may be stranded53. Make a knot54. Fund-raiser60. ‘’--- Maria’’61. Texas A&M student62. ‘’Omigosh!’’63. Receive64. They’re held for questioning65. Aids in crimeDOWN
 1. Sovereign symbol2. Prefix with cortex or classic3. Buffalo-to-Atlanta dir.
4. Sushi fare
5. Emulates a majorette
6. Waffles in a box7. Electric unit8. Frat letters
9. Bert Bobbsey’s twin
10. ‘’Get going!’’
11. Where love is not a good thing12. Planet’s path13. Spiritual center of Islam
18. E or G, e.g.
22. Computer key
23. Money, casually24. Heavenly hunter25. Mason’s employee
26. Golf champ Ernie
27. ‘’To Sir With Love’’ singer
29. Not so bold30. Helpful hints32. --- Canaveral34. Shade of green35. Taxi ticker37. Hold one’s ground38. Toddler42. Carrier to Oslo44. Color range45. Thumb condition?46. ‘’Shoulda listened to me!’’47. Luggage attachment48. Callow49. Goes ballistic51. Identifies correctly52. Cut out the bloopers55. Bigger than med.56. Tease57. Turner or Eisenhower58. Old hand59. Half a figure eight
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
BIKES
80s Univega Alpina Uno Hybrid Blk Chrome 
(Imperial Beach) - $199. 1988 Univega 
Alpina Uno Lowee Design, in Exceptional 
condition. Has 26” Arraya wheels, Suntour 
xc sport hubs, front quick release. New 
Michellin street tires plus tubes. eighteen 
speed, Shimano SIS thumb shifters. Full 
Exage Mountain Drive train. 17” Tange t 
. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
momgoose bmx bike (Pacific Beach) - $50. 
here is a girls BMX bike 20” brakes work 
geeat asking $50 or best offer. moving soon 
and cleaning out the garage ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
H.A.R.O 20”inch B.M.X ., (3-piece crank) 
(chula vista) - $140. 20”inch Haro, Bmx , 
With 3-piece crank , Rims with sealed bear-
ings , Original Bmx Haro Stickers , Tuned & ready to roll. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Outdoor dining set (near SDSU) - $225We 
are moving and have to sell our IKEA out -
door dining set. Originally we paid over 
$500 for all of it. Now, it could be your for 
less than half the price plus you don’t have 
to put it all together. The furniture is sun-bleached since it lives outside. ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Salty Livin’ Designs Modern Box Frame 
Dining Table + Bench (Encinitas)- $450. 
Salty Livin’ Designs Modern Box Frame 
Dining Table + Bench ( chairs not included ) is great for entertaining any size party. Perfect for both indoor and outdoor use! Its versatility makes it multi-purpose and a 
great investment piece. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Salty Livin’ Designs Modern Blended Rustic 
Media Console (Encinitas) - $550. Town 
meets country on our Salty Livin’ Designs Modern Blended Rustic Media Console framing rustic pine drawers in a modern 
lacquer frame. The wood comes from solid pine shipping pallets, reinvented into 
unique storage pieces for the home. ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
CARS
Salvage 2018 DODGE CHARGER RT 392 for Sale - $22,500. This 2018 DODGE CHARGER R sustained Water Flood damage The insur -
ance company paid out 41 840 on the claim You are more than welcome to contact us to schedule an appointment for vehicle 
inspection Mon Fri 8am 4pm. ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information.
2012 Honda Civic EX-L - San Diego,CA - 
$10,495. AUTO FINANCE CENTER 1485 
Morena Blvd. Suite B San Diego CA. 92110 
Drive it Home Today!! Call or Text us Now 
and ask for Lance. (office ) 858-951-XXXX 
(Cell) 619-886-XXXX 2012 Honda Civic EX-L 
four Cylinder VTEC 1.8 Liter 4D Sedan - 1 owner - Clean CarFax - California Car 
- No Accidents - Non Smoker - Leather 
- Navigation - Bluetooth - Moon Roof - 
Exceptional Condition - 116,394 Easy 
Original Miles! three month 3,000 mi Limited Warranty with Longer Terms Available. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information.
Used 2010 Honda Accord for sale - $7,900. 
This is a must see! Beautiful 2010 Honda Accord Coupe with automatic transmission in gorgeous silver with dark gray and black interior. This car screams sexy! The 4 cyl keeps you fuel-efficient and economical but that little Honda engine provides plen -
ty of pack to power your New ride! Tires are at 75%, nice alloy rims, ice cold air condi-
tioned with keyless entry, radio controls on 
the steering wheel, electric windows, and 
locks and gorgeous tint. This vehicle drives 
very comfortably, but handles very nimble 
as you expect from a Honda! No accidents reported! ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information.NAMASTE 
Wanted:  
Nepali student for part-time 
translation work (Nepali to 
English) for documentary film 
shot in Nepal.  Short term now 
with retired UCSD professor. 
rranson@ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Lebron James is a great 
player. He is the greatest 
player of his generation. He 
is inching closer to being the 
most accomplished player of all 
time and he has dominated the 
Eastern Conference for the best 
part of the last decade. He is a 
great all-around player, a great 
leader and a great role model. But he is not the greatest player 
of all time.
Let’s just say I have a little 
bit of a bias. I have painfully 
been a Chicago Bulls fan ever 
since I started following the 
NBA. I was a fervent supporter 
of young Lebron though, up 
until he packed his bags and headed to Florida and started 
beating up on the Bulls in the 
playoffs. So yes, I don’t like him. 
I respect him as a player and as an influential person in this 
game, but I don’t like him. That 
being said, Michael Jordan was and still is the greatest player to ever step on an NBA court.
Much of Lebron’s claim as 
the greatest of all time lies on his dominance of the Eastern 
Conference, not of the league 
as a whole. Both Jordan and James played in the Eastern 
conference, so the comparison 
is easy. The difference is that 
when Jordan played, the Eastern conference was at 
least on par with the West, 
whereas now “ This could very 
well be the biggest top-end talent disparity we’ve seen between the conferences since 
the NBA-ABA merger took 
place before the 1976-1977 
season, ” per Five ThirtyEight. 
That disparity shows in the 
playoffs as well, where Jordan 
beat 20 50-win teams, whereas Lebron as of this past week has 
beaten 15, in two more seasons (let’s just glance over those 
last two years in W ashington). 
Per my agreement with my 
editors, I have to mention that 
Kobe Bryant is 25–10 in those matchups.
So how could this be 
explained? O ften, the argument 
is made that Lebron’s teammates never play up to his level. Sure, 
Lebron has had some terrible 
players on his team before, 
and his 2007 Finals team was 
dreadful. But he also had Kevin Love, a career 18 points and 
11 rebounds, Kyrie Irving, the 
number one pick in the 2011 
draft, Kyle Korver, a career 43 
percent three-point shooter and Ray Allen, arguably the 
second best shooter of all 
time. He also got a couple of 
good seasons from players 
like Antawn Jamison in 2010, 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas, a career 17 points and 9 rebounds and 
Tristan Thompson, an overpaid 
but sometimes competent player. Oh, and “just” Dwayne 
Wade and Chris B osh.
If that is the argument 
for Lebron, you’ d expect that Jordan’s teammates would be 
incredible. 
The three names thrown 
around are Scottie Pippen, Dennis Rodman and Toni 
Kukoc. Scottie Pippen is a top-
50 player of all time, and a great 
all-around defensive player 
who usually averaged more 
than 5 assists and 5 rebounds. 
But he also never averaged 
more than 21 points a game while playing with Jordan 
and only played 44 games in 
Jordan’s final season with the 
Bulls. He was o ften injured in 
his latter years with Jordan, and 
was never the same a fter Jordan 
retired. Kukoc was a great sixth man, but never averaged more 
than 13 points a game. Finally, Rodman was 35 years old when 
he joined the Bulls in 1996, and 
even though he put in three 
seasons of 15+ rebounds per 
game, he also only averaged 5 points a game over that period 
of time. Some other teammates 
include BJ Armstrong, John 
Paxson and Horace Grant. 
Y eah. 
There are many more 
arguments that can be made 
but this was more about 
debunking the existing ones. Lebron is dominating a 
conference that is the weakest 
it has ever been, while Jordan 
dominated a NBA that 
produced the original Dream 
Team. Lebron’s teammates are 
bad? Jordan didn’t have much 
help either. Lebron can’t get 
help with the cap now at over 
100 million dollars? Jordan 
counted 33.1 million dollars against the 26.9 million cap in 
1998, and still won the Finals in 
6 games that year. Jordan and James both dragged their teams to incredible successes, and if 
you’re still on the fence on the debate, here is one last point. 
Michael Jordan has more 
individual achievements than 
Lebron James. A six-time NBA champion, he is a six-time 
NBA Finals MVP , five-time 
NBA MVP , an NBA defensive player of the year and led the 
league in scoring 10 times. He 
also led the league in steals 
for three seasons, was on the 
All-Defensive first team nine 
times and the All-NBA first 
team 12 times. And he has a NCAA championship. The 
only category Lebron matches Jordan is in the All-NBA first 
team and although I will give you that Lebron did not in fact 
attend college and so could not 
win a collegiate championship, 
Jordan is just better. Sure, Lebron being a monster of 
consistency and continuing 
to be so in his age 33 season 
is great, but Jordan is greater. 
And when talking about the greatest of all time, that is what 
ultimately matters. 
Now do I have a bias? Y es, 
of course, and this is just my 
opinion. But no matter how you 
look at it, Lebron’s dominance 
always has an asterisk. Jordan’s 
has none.
Post Scriptum. Lebron just 
had an all-time great game in game one of the Finals and 
almost made me scrap this 
article. Like he was damn 
amazing. He also barely played 
any defense, had 5 turnovers 
and basically tanked his team 
in overtime. He also lost. I’m 
fine with keeping this article 
as is.With the school year 
winding down and just a few teams le ft competing for a 
championship, the UC San 
Diego men’s rowing team 
looks to wrap up its season on 
top at Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association Nationals. The 
Tritons sent three varsity boats across the country to 
Princeton, New Jersey on the 
waters of Mercer Lake for a three-day event.
On day one, UCSD’s 
V arsity 8 squad finished 
sixth in its heat with a time of 6:09.04. Led by freshman 
coxswain Kelsey Hirota, the 
Tritons came in fourth in 
repechage 1 behind Boston 
University, Cornell University, 
and Florida Institute of 
Technology, placing a time of 5:51.65. Fellow UC campus 
Berkeley earned a 5:40.19 finish to position them in first 
in all opening heat rounds. 
The Tritons second 
varsity eight, made up of two 
freshman, two sophomores, 
three juniors, and a senior, 
placed fifth in heat 3 recording 
a 6:09.69 finish and fourth 
in repechage 1 in 6 minutes and 11.22 seconds. Syracuse 
University won repechage 1 
with a time of 5:46.02 while 
W ashington University 
acquired the overall best heat 
time with a striking 5:44.20. 
In the opening heat and 
repechage 1, UCSD’s third varsity eight came in fifth place 
in both races documenting times of 6:20.41 and 6:10.38, 
respectively. The repechage 
time put the Tritons above Temple University, Saint 
Joseph’s University, and FIT . 
Again, W ashington’s program captured the best heat time at 
5:52.05.
Day two included races 
from the Tritons varsity 
eight in semi final three and 
the second varsity eight in 
semifinal four. UCSD’s varsity 
eight, consisting of one freshman, three sophomores, 
two juniors, and two seniors, 
crossed the finish line at 
6:14.54 to put them in sixth place. The second varsity eight 
established a 6:19.50 marker 
that earned them a fifth-place 
finish behind Navy’s first-place 
time of 5:58.32.  
Although not the preferred 
results for any Triton boat, 
all three crews will have an 
opportunity to improve in 
the final races beginning early 
Sunday morning. at Henley Royal Regatta Qualifier
at Henley Royal Regattaat Henley Royal Regattaat Henley Royal Regattaat Henley Royal RegattaSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Rowing
 M Rowing
M Rowing
M RowingM RowingAll DayAll DayAll DayAll DayAll Day5/29
6/46/56/66/7
This week, the UC San Diego 
Tritons baseball team ended its season 
with a pair of losses versus Columbus State University and Southern New Hampshire University. UCSD’s season 
came to a close as they came up just 
short of the NCAA Division II National Championship. Although the season ended before the Tritons wanted, this was still a largely impressive season. This year, the Tritons recorded 43 wins 
with only 17 losses, good enough to win them the California Collegiate Athletic Association Title and go deep into the 
Division II National Championship 
Tournament.
Game One
After a win on Sunday, the Tritons 
matched up with Columbus State on Tuesday and su ffered a 0–6 loss. 
This was the Tritons first loss in the 
winner’s bracket which put them at a disadvantage going forward in the 
double-elimination tournament.
The Tritons’ o ffense was stumped 
all day as they were only able to muster 
4 hits in the 0–6 loss. The usual slugging 
top of the lineup was ine ffective on Tuesday as the top three hitters went a combined 0–13. Third hitter redshirt 
junior out fielder Zander Clarke was 
the only one of the UCSD’s top three hitters to get on base as he drew a walk in the bottom of the eighth inning.  
The Tritons had chances but could 
not cash in on several opportunities. Four separate times they stranded two runners on base. This happened in 
the second, fourth, eighth, and ninth innings. The Tritons were patient as 
they took 8 walks in the nine innings but never were able to capitalize on the Columbus State mistakes. This 
was a frustrating night for the Tritons as it seemed like every time they had some momentum, it was brought to a screeching halt. In the eighth inning, after loading the bases with only one 
out, redshirt sophomore le ft fielder 
Keenan Brigman bounced into a double play, ending the Tritons short-lived rally,
Junior le ft-handed pitcher Preston 
Mott was on the mound on Tuesday but was not his usual self. Mott had been great all season for the Tritons as he entered Tuesday’s game with an impressive 8–1 record. However, 
Tuesday was a rare o ff night for Mott 
as he struggled to miss bats all night. Mott was forced out of the game a fter 
4.1 innings a fter allowing 5 runs, 8 hits, 
and 2 walks. The bullpen was great 
on Tuesday, especially right-handed 
sophomore Ted Stuka who pitched 2.1 scoreless innings with four strikeouts. Although the bullpen finished the 
game strong, it did not matter as the Tritons were not able to pull themselves out of the 6-run de ficit and fell at the 
hands of Columbus State.  
This was not the end of the Tritons 
tournament as although they lost, a double-elimination tournament affords a team 2 losses before elimination. The Tritons got another 
shot to keep their tournament hopes alive on Wednesday versus Southern New Hampshire University.
Game Two
After a loss on Wednesday, the 
Tritons were in “win-or-go-home” mode on Thursday as one more meant 
the end of their season. Sadly, that loss did indeed come on Thursday as the 
Tritons were beaten by the Southern New Hampshire Penmen by a score of 4–7 ending the Tritons’ 2018 season and championship hopes.
The Penmen got out to an early 
lead and never looked back. On the third pitch thrown by Tritons starting pitcher senior Jack Rupe, Penman third baseman Tom Blandini gave the Penmen the lead with a homer over 
the right field wall. Rupe never really 
settled in, as a fter the first inning 
homer, he allowed 3 more runs in the 
second and 2 more in the third. Rupe exited a fter 2.1 innings with the Tritons 
down 0–5. Before the third inning was over, the Penmen notched up 2 more runs o ff right-handed relief pitcher 
junior Kyle Lucke, one of which was 
credited to Rupe. A fter 3 innings the 
Tritons were in a big 0–7 hole that they 
were not able to dig themselves out of.
These were the only runs the 
Penmen were able to put up all game as the Tritons bullpen shut them down for the remaining 6 innings. What should not be forgotten in this game is the performance by redshirt junior 
relief pitcher Cameron Kurz. Kurz 
entered the game with one out in the fourth inning and was lights-out in the remaining innings. Kurz finished the 
game with a 4.2 perfect innings and kept the Tritons in the game. 
In the top of the fifth inning, the 
Tritons finally snapped their 17-inning 
scoreless drought with a leado ff home 
run by redshirt junior designated hitter Michael Palos. The Tritons chipped into the deficit once more in the sixth as they scored another run on a pair of hits by senior second baseman Justin 
Beck and junior first baseman Tyler 
Durna. This kept the game interesting 
as the Tritons had cut the de ficit from 7 
runs to only 5.
The Tritons kept the faith and put 2 
more up in the seventh which brought 
the game within striking distance at 4–7 thanks to a sacri fice fly by Keenan 
Brigman and RBI single by Zander 
Clarke. 
This was the last bit of o ffense the 
Tritons had as they did not put up any 
more runs in the remaining 2 innings resulting in the 4–7 loss.
This was the end of the Tritons 
season and although it did not end with a championship, this year yielded some unforgettable moments and 
achievements. The Tritons will be back 
in action next season at Triton Ballpark 
as they continue their journey to capture the NCAA Division II National Championship.
baseball UCSD Baseball Falls 
Short in NCAA National Championship
Despite a successful 43–17 season, the Tritons were unable 
to defeat Columbus State University and Southern New 
Hampshire University in the postseason.
PHOTO BY DANIEL LEE // UCSDGUARDIAN
Three 
Triton 
Crew 
Boats Is Lebron 
James 
the 
GOAT?
UCSD Rowing 
headed to New 
Jersey to continue 
its successful IRA 
season.Managing Editor 
Marcus Thuillier 
weighs in on whether 
or not LeBron James 
has surpassed MJ.BY LUCAS ARMSTRONG
Contributing Writer
lucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu
BY madeline lewis
senior staff writerBY Marcus  Thuillier
Managing editor
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduMarcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 4, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
