VOLUME 51 , ISSUE 18  M ONDAY , FEBRUARY 26 , 201 8 WWW. UCS DGUARDIAN. ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
 

543*2"#"2,&3#"--	
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDEBLACK HISTORY 
MONTH

 
""

mMNTDSFFOJO HTUPMFDUVSFTP O
	
""


'01"/%#63)&"''-4&/3
 "(&
"(&
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE#3FTFBSDIJOBOZmFME#



 
! 


 

SFTFBSDIUPSF mOFBOZ
"
$
- Suzanne GOLSHANAR A
ECONOMIZE IT
OPINION , PAGE 4
MONDAY
H 63 L 50
WEDNE SDAY
H 61 L 4 8
MONDAY
ILLUUSTRARTION  BY DAVIDAVI JUD JU ARAR ILLUSTRRATATIONBBY DDAV
VIIDDJ U AA AVIDJUA
RRR
EZEZEZ
TUESDAY
H 56 L 45
THURSDAY
H 60 L 52
THURSD AY
EDUCATION MA JOR.....2
CREATIVITY ...................4
HOROSCO PE................ 8
VAGMORE..................... 9
W BASKETBALL..........1 6The UC San Die go Academic 
Senate issue d a statement on
Thursda y announcin g that UCSD
will continue to o ffer its c lass tit led 
“The Films of Wood y Allen” even 
thou gh a petition to cancel the course
has garnere d more t han 15,000
signatures. The petition was initiated
by Thurgoo d Mars hall College junior
Savana h Lyon, a film stu dies ma jor 
whose ar gument for en ding the
class is hinged on t he sexua l assau lt 
allegations a gainst Allen.
The controversy is re flective of the current debate regar ding
how celeb rities accused  of sexual 
harassment and misconduct  should
be portra yed. Allen, w ho has been
accuse d of multiple counts o f sexua l 
miscon duct inc luding instances
involvin g his adoptive dau ghter
Dylan Farrow, has repeate dly denied 
the allegations.
“There are man y issues with
having a c lass devote d to t he films 
of Wood y Allen. The bi ggest bein g
the rape, pe dophilia, an d assau lt 
allegations lined up a gainst Woo dy 
Allen, most of which are recurrin g 
themes in his movies, ” L yon wrote to
the UCSD Guardian. The debate also calls into question 
the possi bility of appreciatin g an
artist’s work without condonin g
the ne gative attributes of the artist
themse lf.
Lyon’s petition has generated 
backlash as mem bers o f the Aca demic
Senate, as we ll as C hance llor Pra deep 
Khosla, have spo ken out a gainst t he 
movement, citing aca demic freedom
and freedom of speech. 
Academic Senate Vice Chair
Robert Horwitz to ld the Guar dian
that the issue at hand is whethe r 
faculty mem bers’ courses s hould be	"#!"#
$"!$
$%!!###$+#%'#$%
A committee is examinin g
the re gulations of the
farmers’ market and concerns 
from Price Center ven dors.
This past wee k, the Retai l
Committee, a coa lition o f UC San 
Diego representatives and Price
Center ven dors held its first meetin g 
of the year to discuss enforcement o f 
regulatory changes to t he farmers’ 
market. Thi s is after the recent 
discover y of improper oi l disposa l 
by uni dentified ven dors from t he 
farmers’ mar ket an d concerns raise d
by Price Center businesses on the
discre pancies between t heir own 
contractua l limitations wit h UCS D
and the agreements wit h the wee kly 
vendors. The possibilit y of relocation 
and more rigorous environmenta l
guidelines are amon g the issues t hat
will continue to be debated  at futu re
meetin gs.
The meetin g primari ly focuse d 
on t he extent o f the universit y’s
oversi ght of the farmers’ mar ket an d
lack thereo f. A key determinant to 
the discuss ion was the fact that there
have been no forma l agreements o f 
memorandums of understandin g 
between t he universit y an d the 
market ven dors in t he past. T he
primar y concerns brought up by 
Price Center ven dors w ho are un der
contract is that the market offers 
simi lar food options, so t hey’re
worried it will affect  their sales.  
The commi ttee served as a
platform to provide ven dors, UC
officials, an d stu dents wit h the 
opportun it y  t o  o p e n  a n  o n g o ing 
dialogue inten ded on e ffacin g 
any ambi guity on the terms and
conditions between all those
involved.     
Daron Woods , Associated 
Students trans fer senator, t he
student re presentative at the
committee, re ported to t he UCSD
Guardian on w hat he believes are
some of the main concerns that will
be further debated.
“Personall y I reall y like the
farmers’ mar ket, an d I wou ld be a
lot more comfortable if UCS D and
the farmers’ mar ket were wor king 
toget her to ensure t hat they were 
not inappropriatel y dumpin g waste, ”
Woods said. “I would like to see the 
farmer’s market grow and thrive, 
so I definite ly think the changes
worked out wit h the farmers’ mar ket
will be for the benefit of ever yone. ”
Last year’s report of the
prohibited dumpin g of oil used b y 
food ven dors was brought to t he 
attention of universit y departments
responsi ble for overseein g the
weekl y market.
Though food vendors ma y not
have been assigne d meticu lousACADEMICS
 #*("*-3"((&.&*&1
	
 &#&$""."$)0

 %&$$%! ! %#!'#$!!*  $$
UCSD
Pop re lic JesseMMcCCarartntntnetny throws it down at Warren Live! to a crow d od od odoff stududententss. PhoPhoPhoPhotototoby y y KyoKyKyka Matsuna ga // UCSD Guar dian  
SeeWOODY ALLEN, page 3UCSD
See FARMERS’ MARKET, page 3Target an d UC San Die go representatives hosted
an o pen house event at Price Center West Forum on
Wednesda y mornin g with the purpose of openin g
up talks for a Tar get store openin g on the first floor
of what is currentl y the campus bookstore for 2020.
Should the proposal be im plemented, the bookstore 
wou ld continue to occup y the secon d floor but limit
its stoc k to items suc h as UCS D merc handise.
The event o pened wit h presentations from
all the re presentatives w hich inc luded UCSD’s
Executive Director o f Rea l Estate Jeff Gra ham, 
Target Senior Deve lopment Mana ger in Rea l Estate
Laurie Jones, an d Target Director o f Rea l Estate
Kim Ha yden. Fo llowin g the presentations, t he
representatives, inc luding a UCSD Boo kstore
representative, answered questions from UCSD
faculty, students, an d emp loyees w ho turne d out for
the event. T he open house en ded by invitin g those
who attended to visit a cou ple of tables with more
information on Tar get’s proposa l and operations. 
Hayden state d durin g her presentation t hat
“Target has been lookin g for wa ys that we can serve
the UCSD communit y, whether that be on campus 
or near campus. … We’re here to day to listen an d
learn to help us ma ke a determination i f this is t he
right place for us. ”
When exp laining t he success o f the sma ll store
concept, Ha yden mentione d that it has becomepopu lar across t he countr y because peop le like the
convenience o f havin g such stores wit hin their own
neighborhoods.
A sma ll format Tar get store is drastica lly 
reduced in size com pared to t he full-size d stores.
The Mission Va lley Tar get store in San Die go is
about 98,000 square feet, about five times as bi g as
the avera ge 20,000 square foot, sma ll-size stores.
These stores a lso differ in t he variet y and quantit y 
of their stoc k, wit h the sma ll Tar gets’ se lections
“depend[in g] on the location and the need of the
neighborhood [where it is locate d], ” Ha yden added.
Jones exp laine d how a sma ll-format store wou ld
opera te on campus.
“Our campus stores would expect to hire
between 40 an d 60 emp loyees wit h the hope t hat 
most o f the emp loyees wou ld come from t he 
campus an d the surroun ding neighborhood. Tar get
wou ld provi de a rea lly good opportunit y for part -
time wor k right on campus, ” Jones sai d.
Additiona lly, Jones a dded that the openin g
hours wou ld be based on t he nee ds of the cam pus, 
with a genera l win dow from 8 a.m. unti l 11 p.m.
with room for bein g “tweaked to fit the need o f 
your communit y.”
The store o perations wou ld inc lude deliveries 
by two small semi trucks twice a da y in order to
keep prices low. Jones noted that 90 percent of the 6."-*"4&13"01/&+0 CAMPUS
*#$%!# !!% "&$#%
An online petition requestin g the course be removed received over 15,000 si gnatures .See TARGET, page 3 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
THE BETTER WA YBy Michi Sora 
triton outifttersSHOP
to.ucsd.edunew winter line

	
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the ian is published Mondays during the Guardian is published Mondays du
academic year by UCSD by UCSear by UCSD and for the UCSD students and for the UCSstudents and for the
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, roduction of this newspaper in anyReproduction of this newspaper in an
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly ole or in part, without permission her in whole or in part, without permission is 
prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Gu ohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guard
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. ble for the return of unsolicited manuscri t responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the expressed herein do not necessarily repre views expressed herein do not necessarily 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California ns of the UCSD Guardian, the University of Caons of the UCSD Guardian, the University
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded byAssociated Students. The UCSD Guardian is fundociated Students. The UCSD Guardian
DGYHUWLVLQJ<·NQRZ&DUROLQHSDVVLYHDJJUHVVLYHQHVVZRQ·WYHUWLVLQJ<·NQRZ&DUROLQHSDVVLYHDJJUHVVLYHQHVVQJ<·NQRZ&DUROLQHSDVVLYHDJJUHVV
WDNH\RXDQ\ZKHUHLQOLIHH\RXDQ\ZKHUHLQOLIHDQ\ZKHUHLQOLIH
eneral Editeneral Editorial: General Editorial: 
editor@ucsdguarr@ucsdguardian.org
ews: news@ucsdguardian.orgNews: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.orgpinion: opinion@ucsdguardia
Sports: sports@ucsd guardian.or g
Features: features@ucsd guardian.or g
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsd guardian.or g
A&E: entertainment@ucsd guardian.or g 
Photo: photo@ucsd guardian.or g
Design: desi gn@ucsd guardian.or g
Art: art@ucsd guardian.or g
0DUNHWLQJPDUNHWLQ J#XFVGJXDUGLDQRU J
Advertisin g: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsd guardian.or g
Fax: 858-534-7035Business ManagerBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancan o 
Addvertvertising Director
Cararoline Lee
MaMarketing D g Directors
MelMelissa Palaf Palafox  
Training and Development ManagerTraining and Development Mana Development Manager
-RUGDQ33D-RUGDQ3DFNHU
Advertis tising Design Advertising Design
Alfredo Hdo H. Vilano, Jr.Alfredo H. Vilano, J
A.S. GraS. Graphic StudioS. Graphic StudiSam Velaz quez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Hol t
Armonie Mendez
Chris RobertsonCh
Alex WuA
Richard LuRichard 
Susanti Sarkar SusanSusanti Sarkar 
Timothy DengTimothyimothy D
Alicia LeplerAlicia LeplerAlicia Leple
Annika OlivesAnnika OAnni
Brittney Lutney LBrittney Lu
Francesca HummleFrancesca HumFrancesca Hummler
nieris ya ZenierisAleya Zen
Lorena EspinozaLorena EspinozaLorena Espinoza
HojuneHojune KwHojune Kwak
Miguel ShekerMiguel Shek Sheker
David JuarezDavid Juarez
Lisa  Chikisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chie f
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor Ed
Opinion Editor or
Sports Editor tor
Associate Sports Editor ports Ede Sports Ed
Features Editors dit Features E
A&E Editor tor
Lifestyle EditorLifestyle
Associate Lifestyle Editor iate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editoroto E
Design Editor n Editor Design Editor
Multimedia EditorsultimMultimedia Editors
ta Visualization EditorData Visualization Data Visualizati
Art EdArt EditorArt Editor
Copy EditoCopy Editorpy Editor
Associate CAssociate Cociate Copy Editor
PaPage Layout
Aleya ZeAleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Editorial As al Assista Editorial Assistants
ChloeChloe Esser, Maya Kleiman,Chloe Esser, Maya Kleiman,
5HYHNND*HUVKRYLFK(PLO\&ROOLQVHYHNND*HUVKRYLFK(PLO\&ROOLQV5HYHNND*HUVKRYLFK(PLO\&ROOLQVCCopy ReCopy Readers
5DFKDHO$OEHU5DFKDHO$OEHUWV$OH[5LFNDUG$VL\DK6\HGFKDHO$OEHUWV$OH[5LFNDUG$VL\DK6\HG
'DUUH'DUUHQ/DP5HQ/DP5DQL6QDQNDU !	 %#!&  ##&%&%! !#	 %)%(#$
California universities were pro hibited from having the ma jor in 1961 in or der to focus teac hers’ e ducations on t he content itse lf.CLASSES
UC San Diego is in the process o f 
intro ducin g an e ducation ma jor that
would debut in one or two years. T he
idea of addin g the ma jor was sparked
after the California le gislature passed 
a law finally permittin g schools to
have an un dergraduate e ducation 
major after 57 years.
Under graduate education
majors were origina lly banne d in
1961 during the Sputni k Era w here 
lawma kers t hought the education
major was a watere d-down degree,
and teachers weren’t spendin g enou gh
time learning t he subject content but 
instea d focusin g on teac hing methods.The education stu dies department 
is currentl y in the pre-proposal phase 
and believes that the major will be
finalized either Fa ll of 2019 or 2020. 
The education stu dies faculty is 
current ly envisionin g what the course
catalo g will look like and what the 
areas of focus  will be.
The proposa l called for ne w 
undergraduate courses aroun d
educationa l researc h and having a 
major relevant to students who
want to become teac hers in t he
future. Pro fessor C hris Ha lter o f 
the education stu dies department
emphasizes that the ma jor will go in
depth into three different areas of e
ducation .
“There will be a focus  in [cognitive] development an d learnin g
[about] societ y, language, an d culture,
and divin g into educational research, ”
Halter told the UCSD Guardian .
Halter state d that the education
studies department hopes t his ma jor
will be an inter discip linary major.
“The ma jor would include courses
in co gnitive science, socio logy, [an d]
human development. ”
Roger Reve lle Co llege sop homore
and education studies minor An gel
Lopez stated that he “reall y want[s] to 
see a focus on non-STEM e ducation,
we don’t have enou gh emp hasis on
the arts. ”
Halter m entioned that the last
year o f the ma jor is w hen stu dents
will finalize their focus  in educat ion studies. Stu dents wi ll have field
experience in e lementar y school, 
high school, graduate sc hool, or
educationa l researc h. Throughout
the major, students are taking a ver y 
simi lar course line, and it is t heir final
year w here t hey decide the pat h they 
want to take for their futures.
Halter said that it is more than 
likely that the ma jor wi ll inc lude
working wit h the Preuss Sc hool
UCSD to gain some field experience 
for the stude nts. The staff would  work 
on solidif ying the partnership the y 
already have wit h the Preuss Sc hool
instea d of creatin g a new one.
"/"6""5"/3 "/"6" "5"/3

'0--05420/35*33&1

instructions on how to dispose 
of any accumulated waste, it was 
never a secret that leftover food is their responsibility to discard off 
campus, nor any ignorance in terms of what are the proper avenues to 
throw away oil. When no vendors came forward as the ones posing 
the environmental hazard, the university threatened enacting strict punitive measures, going as far as 
closing down the farmers’ market altogether if the improper dumping 
were to continue. 
The farmers’ market is widely 
popular among UCSD students, generating a couple million 
dollars per year in revenue, which 
is shared between the Center for 
Student Involvement, and the 
Bookstore. Adhering to campus policy is integral to assuring that the farmers’ market is following sustainable practices and important 
for consumer trust. After reports 
were filed, food vendors have demonstrated total compliance with 
UCSD regulatory guidelines. 
Another topic that was mentioned 
at the committee meeting was the 
possibility of relocating the farmers’ 
market. The area would need to 
be entirely asphalt, vastly limiting the options available. The few areas 
large enough are predominantly parking lots, which raised concerns 
about reducing the already-limited number of available parking spaces..
Another option considered 
was Library Walk. Though it is an area designated for student organizations, a significant portion of the revenue collected from the 
farmers’ market by the university goes back to funding student 
initiatives, serving as a benefit for the student body as a whole. 
The possibility of relocation is 
still in question, and many of the final decisions will be taking place at the next meeting.    
Tom Bonetati, director of 
trademark and licensing for the 
UCSD Bookstore Office spoke with 
the Guardian on the importance of 
having changes in oversight be a 
unified effort.
“We’re always looking for 
student collaboration, and campus 
and staff and faculty involvement 
as well, so we welcome as much feedback regarding changes to the 
farmers’ market as people would like to see, ” he stated. “It’s very 
popular, it’s increasing in volume every single week. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
merchandise comes from the Target 
distribution center located in Rialto, 
CA, and the other 10 percent from 
local vendors. Their waste disposal is located inside the store building, 
and they explained that they would 
“potentially be a part of a larger building here. ... We would integrate 
into [the UCSD Bookstore’s] trash system, ” Jones stated.
According to the Target 
representatives, the timeline of this 
potential Target store on campus 
would “depend on the amount of 
positive feedback from the UCSD community. If given the green light, 
it would be set to open its doors in 
2020. ”
When asked about the 
hiring process and whether it would integrate into UCSD’s, the representatives answered that all Target new hires would be directly through the corporation, but 
employees would “abide by the 
UC System Fair Wage Guidelines, and there would not be a Union 
requirement. ” 
There are currently three small-
format Target stores near college campuses in California. The first 
one opened at UC Berkeley in 2013, and two opened last summer 
near UC Irvine and at University of Southern California. Hayden 
clarified that none of these Target 
stores are located on the campus but are adjacent or very close to the 
campuses. The proposal of opening 
a Target store on a campus, such as UCSD, is a new concept for the 
major retailer.dictated by others. 
“The debate is not about the Films 
of Woody Allen course; it is about the 
principle of academic freedom and the right of faculty to teach courses on 
subjects they believe are interesting 
and important, ” Horwitz said. 
Chancellor Khosla shared a 
similar opinion, stating to the San 
Diego Union-Tribune, “I would have 
told her to move on and get out of my 
classroom. I get to teach in my class. ”
Lyon told the Guardian that 
the responses she has received are 
indicative of an even bigger issue. 
“Students don’t have a voice on 
this campus and we need to discuss as a community what needs to be done 
to solve that problem, ” Lyon told the Guardian. 
While student organizations such 
as the UCSD College Democrats and Anti-Oppression Committee have 
reached out to Lyon in support of her petition to remove the course, other 
students are speaking out in favor of 
academic freedom.
Gregory Lu, a Roger Revelle 
College senior, told the Guardian 
that Allen’s behaviors should not take away from the discussion of his films.  
“Woody Allen’s actions, while 
traumatic and disgusting, should not 
undermine what the purpose of this 
theater class is attempting to teach, ” 
Lu stated.
Theater professor Steven Adler, 
who teaches the course, was 
unavailable for comment. The film 
course has been offered to UCSD students since the 1990s. 
When asked if artists with 
controversial pasts deserve societal recognition, Lyon responded “The 
question is whether or not these artists should be taught in an 
academic institution … which is 
what is happening currently with the 
Films of Woody Allen. Should these 
artists have a platform where they are 
glorified? No. That is what is being addressed here. ”
In a recent statement made by the 
UCSD Academic Senate, the group 
announced that it plans to “support 
the right to the continued teaching 
of this course now and in the future. ” Employees Will Work Under the Target Company
▶ TARGET, from page 1UCSD’s Academic Senate Cited ‘ Academic Freedom’ In Its Emailed Response
▶ WOODY ALLEN, from page 1
The Market Could Potentially Be Relocated to a Parking Lot or Library WalkAbigail St aggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.edu
Rebeca Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.eduAmalia Huert a Cornejo  ahuertac@ucsd.edu
▶ FARMERS’ MARKET, from page 1
like  us  on  fb  
@UCSD
GUARDIAN THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
	

	CONTA CT THE EDIT OR



opinion@ucsdguardian.org
There is a script that both
sides tend t o follow after a mass 
shooting: Democrats immediatel y 
begin to advocate for more gun
control, while Republicans rush to
protect their Second Amendment 
right to bear arms. However, the
issue ma y not be as black or white 
as either side makes it out to be.
Instead of focusing on a battle of 
differing ideologies, when it comes
to gun control, there should be anincreased push for researching itsH
IÀFDF\
In 1992, the Centers fo r 
Disease Control and Prevention
established the National Cente r 
for In jury Prevention and Control
with the intent of stud ying
and funding research on the 
prevention of violence. Soon afte r 
its creation, the NCIPC funded
research that went int o the article
“Gun Ownership as a Risk Facto r 
for H omicide in the H ome.”
Large amounts of National 5LÁH $VVRFLDWLRQ
OREE\LQJ
lead the Omnibus Consolidated
Appropriations Bill of 1996 to
include a rider which stated that 
none of the CDC’s funding could 
“be used to advocate or promote
gun control.”
Despite onl y prohibiting 
research that advocated for gun
control, the language of the
rider was vague enough to bring
government-sponsored researchRQDQ
\DQGDOODVSHFWVRIÀUHDUPV
to a halt. Currentl y, onl y $100,000
out of the CDC’s annual budget of $5.6 billion is spent on gun
research, a 96 percent decrease
from pre-1996 levels.
Currentl y, there is not enough
research to decisivel y point out 
which t ypes of gun control are
TXDQWLÀDEO\ EHWWHU WKDQ RWKHUV
5HVHDUFK LQWR DQ \À HOGJXQ
control included, is never a one-
VL]HÀWVDOOW\SHRISURGXFWZLWK
VRIHZVWXGLHVLWLVHDV \WRÀQG
contradicting results. For example,
there are data to show that gun
control generall y leads to decreases
in gun violence. According to the Harvard In
jury Control Research
Center, regions with more guns 
KDYHPRUHÀUHDUPUH ODWHGGHDWKV 
even after controlling for outside
factors. On the other hand, the
Federal Assault Weapons Ban that lasted from 1
994 to 2004 banned
high-capacit y magazines, among
other supposedl y harmful gun
PRGLÀFDWLRQV<HWDVWX G\E\WKH
National Institute of Justice f ound 
that the ban had little to no impact gun violence levels.
5HVHDUFKLQDQ
\ÀHOGKROGVWKH
undeniable potential to produce
results that people do not want o r 
expect. Instead of banning research
on gun violence, the government 
needs to fund gun-related research
WRUHÀQHDQ \OHJLVODWLRQLWKDVR U
may pass in the future. Not onl y is
the conservative approach of denialinappropriate, but so is the liberal
call for an immediate reworking
of the nation’s gun control laws.
Such hast y action ma y lead to the 
passing of potentiall y costl y and
ineffective legislation. Instead, the government should re-insert itself 
LQWRWKHGRPDLQRIÀUHDUPUHVHDUFK
and end its counterproductive
partisan bickering .	 
  
By Jason Ni deffer // Contributing Writerffffa degree from UC San 
Diego (or an y other collegiate institution) is
not the onl y criteria to secure a place in the job
market an ymore. Previous work experience,
especiall y experience in the area of expertise
one is pursuing, is vital to be seen as a more
FRPSHWLWLYHFDQ GLGDWHDQGPDQ\ÀUPVFDQR IIHU
students this opportunit y in the form of summe r 
LQWHUQVKLSV+RZHYHUWKHHFRQRPLFVRIÀQGLQ J
an internship prioritize students from more
DIÁXHQWIDPL OLHV:LWKRXWH[ SHULHQFHLQWKHZRU N
ÀHOGRUDWOHDVWVRPHFRQQHFWLRQV MRESURVSHFWV
after college might be dim for students who do
QRWKDYHWKHÀQDQFLD ODELOLW\WRFRPSHQVDWHIRU
time spent at an unpaid internship. While man y
universities such as UCSD are accepting low-income and middle-class applicants in additionWR
SURYLGLQJÀQDQFLDODLGLWLVRQ O\DVPDOOVWHS
toward the goal of improving upward socialmobilit
y for these students.
1RQSURÀW DQG IRUSURÀW ÀUPV DUH XVLQJ
unpaid internships as a wa y to hire educated and
capable young minds to complete (sometimes
menial) work for them. This can easil y becomet 
e
O
s
,
travel, and food, while simultaneously working
anywhere from 20 to 40 hours at a job that 
doesn’t even provide monetar y compensation 
to offset these costs. Man y times, students, who
constitute one of the most vulnerable groups in
societ y due to their high amount of debt, will
have to work another job during the internship 
just to provide basic necessities for themselves.
There is an underl ying assumption that students
ZLOO UHFHLYH WKH ÀQDQFLDO VX SSRUW IURP WKHL U
parents or famil y needed to work at an unpaid 
internship. However, this assumption caters to WKHDIÁXHQWPHPEHUVRIVRFLHW
\)RUSHRSOHRI
color especiall y, the fact that white households
earn $24,000 more than black or Latino
households means that these unpaid internships
are reserved for a sector of societ y that is not 
representative of the diverse workforce.
Unfortunatel y, companies offering these
internships overlook the rest of the population,
with their own unique backgrounds and
abilities, solel y because the y lack the same
privilege as white upper-class households.  
The experience that unpaid internshipscan offer might be worthwhile if the y are nea r 
where the students live. H owever f or students
that d on’t live in the cities that h ost the m ost 
LQWHUQVKLSVVXFKDV1HZ<RUN/RV$Q JHOHV
and San Francisco, the y will have to pa y the
high cost of living to reside there. It is estimated
that housing in large cities costs $3,500, transportation costs $360, and food costs, $1200
per month, adding up to an expensive total of 
$5,060 while earning $0 in monthl y income. 
Internships are seen as a means b y which 
students can prove themselves in the workplace.
However, with students barel y able to pa y their 
tuition, an unpaid internship seems to be aluxur
y that not man y can afford despite being 
one that could have the capacit y to determine 
their economic mobilit y in life.
Students who can’t afford to gain that unpaid
work experience will miss an opportunit y to 
PDNHFRQQHFWLRQVDQG JDLQÀUVWKDQGNQRZ OHGJH
working in that area of expertise. Even though 
every student at a certain universit y is offered
the same level of college education, it goes EH
\RQG WKHRUHWLFD O XVH VWXGHQWV QHHG WKH
practical implementation of what the y learned
in order to be seen as having a more complete 
education to recruiters. This level of education,
which includes theoretical and practical 
Without a doubt, if you’re an undergraduate
student here at UC San Diego, you have been 
subjected to the hellacious inconsistenc y of 
assessment st yles among the universit y’s
professors. For better or for worse, the
administration’s laissez-faire polic y with
respect to course regulation has birthed an
obscenel y diverse population of rubric-based
grading schemata.
Virtuall y all professors implement some
form of concrete standards b y which student 
performance ma y be assessed, such as an answe r 
key for a multiple choice exam, a checklist fo r 
a lab report, or a list of criteria for a successful
essay. However, one professor might follow the
rubric with the mercilessness of a drill sergeant 
and another might grade with the stringenc y
RIDFDP SXVSROLFHRIÀFHU´VX SHUYLVLQJµWKH
annual Sun God Music Festival. And, though 
some might consider the strictness or laxness
of a professor’s assessment st yle merel y an
acquired taste, the effect on students of a
professor’s particular rubric-based assessment 
style is far more substantial than a potential
letter grade.
The problem is not with rubrics themselves.
Rather, the problem arises from the occasional obsession with rubrics. Afterall, rubrics do
allow professors to fairl y grade the works
of their students with minimal bias and
remarkable consistenc y. Moreover, rubrics
demand a standard of qualit y from students’ 
DVVLJQPHQWVWKDWUHÁHFWVWKHH[ SHFWDWLRQVWKD W
will almost certainl y be placed on graduates
by future emplo yers and higher-ups. That being said, the extent of the abuse of rubrics
by some universit y professors is abhorrent and
detrimental to the development of tomorrow’s 
innovators.
To that point, a professor’s insistence that 
a student strictl y abide b y a rubric is nothing
short of Pavlovian conditioning. In such a 
classroom experiment, if the test sub ject 
submits to the rubric, it will be rewarded and 
will, thus, receive an acceptable grade. Though, 
if the test sub ject stra ys from the rubric, it will 
be punished and will, consequentl y, receive
poor marks. The results of this experiment 
could be h ypothesized b y any individual with
half of a brain. However, such speculation is
unwarranted, for the experiment has alread y
been conducted, and as expected, students
subjected to strictl y enforced rubrics eithe r 
learn to satisf y the grading criteria or drop the 
course within f our weeks. 
This kind of conditioning is belittling and
dehumanizing, as it suggests to students that 
their opinions are insubordinate to those of thei r 
professors. Furthermore, professors insistent on
ignorantl y upholding their rubric in the face of any and all dissenting voices are effectivel y 
coaxing their students from the pastures of 
creativit y to the butcher y of conformit y,
where the y are to be bred for meekness and 
complacenc y.  
A stud y conducted b y KH Kim, Ph.D. 
involving 270,000 youths and adults, revealed 
that American creativit y, after a stead y increase 
between 1966 and 1990, has experienced
a substantial decline. According to Kim, 
this failure was a result of the div orce of 
educational institutions from a philosoph y that 
emphasizes the importance of teaching students
non-conformit y, risk-taking, and curiosit y. 
Shockingl y, these three admirable attributes are
not synonyms for the choice words I previousl y
used to describe Pavlov’s brood. From this, one FDQUHDVRQDE
O\SUHVXPHWKDWLQÁH[LE OHUXEULF
based assessment st yles are, in part, to blame
for the decline in American creativit y as it has 
been recorded b y Kim .
This is an issue of utmost importance, as
creativit y fuels discover y and innovation.
Furthermore, UCSD is a tier-one research universit
y with a reputation built on the
groundbreaking discoveries and innovations of 
LWVDIÀOLDWHV7KXV LI8&6'ZDQWVWRPDNHD
tradition of this reputation, it must invest in the
future b y encouraging risk-taking rather than 
caution at the undergraduate level, rewarding
boldness rather than timidit y, and nurturing
students who are daring enough to “think
outside the rubric.” 
"!  e Vazquez // Contributin g writerBy Suzanne Go lshanara // Contri butin g Writer
“The wide overuse of ru brics
as a means o f assigning
grades stamps out an y desire
to learn an d replaces it with
DQHHGWR ÀWLQWRDQHDW ER[RI
preordained criteria.”Unpaid Interns hips cater to a w hite,
affluent demo graphic, giving these
students an a dvanta ge in competitive
job mar kets.
eceiving  
df U C S
eeeexeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeploitive, since students worried about
seeming competitive in the future will pursue
WKHVH LQWHUQVKLSV GHVSLWH WKH KDUVK ÀQDQFLDO
reality they will have to endure. Students
hired are expected to cover the cost of living
travel, and food, while simultaneously working
By Clarisse
	
		




SeeINTERN SHIP ,page 5 ▶ THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2018-19
MARCH 2, 2018Priority Deadline for filing the
FAFSA or CAL Dream Act Application is:
www.fafsa.govUse UCSD school code 001317.
Use UCSD school code 001317. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 53 4-4480.Students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents
can submit the FAFSA online at:  
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA,
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:OR
Note:   You will be asked to provide 2016 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2018-19 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.

	

 By David Juare z



	

	 

	


	 
	

 




knowledge, signals preparedness for the workplace. Despite
DOUHDG\SD\LQJFROOHJHWXLWLRQVWXGHQWVDUHH[ SHFWHGWRÀQG
real life work experience while simultaneousl y paying the
costs associated with these unpaid internships. This not 
only furthers the divide between those who are privileged
and can afford these internships, but it ends up widening the
gap between their qualit y of education as well. The students
able to acquire an unpaid internship will potentiall y be
“more educated” in the e yes of a future emplo yer compared
to the applicants who couldn’t afford a real life workplace
experience .
While man y low-income students have to opt out of 
unpaid internship opportunities to pursue “summer jobs,”
which could at least position them to start pa ying off 
ORDQVRURWKHUÀQDQFLD OREOLJDWLRQVWKH SULYLOHJHGDUHDEOH
to earn professional knowledge. CEO of Burning Glass
Technologies Matt Sigelman states that “summer jobs are
not going to position you for work after graduation.” This
statement is further legitimized b y the fact that startingsalaries for graduates with an y internship experience average
about $52,000, compared with $37,000 for those without 
internship. Therefore, low income-students are presented
with a Sophie’s choice: either the y risk a potential highe r 
earning job to work a summer job that could cover tuition
fees, or the y incur more debt to work an unpaid internship 
which will set them back further in pa ying student loans. 
UCSD should provide grants for students seeking
unpaid internships. Since emplo yers use internships as a
means of comparing prospective hires, it should be the
responsibilit y of the universit y to include this requirement 
in the educati onal curriculum. If an educati on is t o mean
more than just a collection of notes taken in a lecture hall,
WKHQDSRUWLRQRIWKHÀQDQFLD ODLGDOORFDWLRQVKRX OGLQFOXGH
funding for this t ype of educational opportunit y. Especiall y 
at a school that advocates for diversit y, it’s not enough fo r 
UCSD to promote diversit y in its applicant pool, but it must 
continue with this tradition into the job market. 
!""$  #$▶INTERN SHIP , from pa ge 4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 

 
CONTA CT THE EDIT ORS
	
 
features@ucs dguardian.org
Amidst t he quiet t hat norma lly accompanies 
winter quarter, Black Histor y Month is a sudden
explosion o f activit y and color that consumes t he
entire mont h of February. Wit h multiple events spannin g
ever y single day and diverse activities ran ging from vivi d
film screenin gs to lectures on Sene galese s harps hooters,
Black History Mont h is anyt hing but quiet. 
In fact, the ver y essence of Black Histor y Month screams
to be seen an d heard. Goin g
back as far as 1976 , Blac k 
Histor y Mont h encapsu lates
an annua l period dedicate d
to the celebration of the 
achievements and roles of 
African-Am ericans and 
Africans throughout world 
histor y. It is meant as a
tribute to a group o f peop le
who have been overlooked
and abused in histor y — a
group o f peop le who ou ght
to have been reco gnize d
and res pecte d for t heir
achievements and humanit y a lon g time a go. For those at
UCSD an d across t he wor ld, Black Histor y Mont h serves as
a time to a ppreciate diverse cu ltures an d peoples. 
This year, markin g the hundredth anniversar y of World
War I, the theme of Black Histor y Month is “African -
Americans in Times of War. ” For UCSD, this theme has
taken a more speci fic route, wit h the plannin g committeechanging it to “War and Peace: the Complexity of History, 
Service, and Activism within the Black Dias pora. ” 
Reflectin g this t heme are t he events t hemse lves,
beginnin g with the Week 3 “We are Abroad” workshop 
— which explored black experiences stud ying abroad —
and endin g with the Week 9 lecture “We Demand: The 
Universit y and Stu dent Protests” given by guest spea ker
Dr. Roderick Fer guson. With other festive events such
as t he lively OceanView 
Terrace Black History 
elebration luncheon , 
fro-Cari bbean Dance
nd Drummin g Workshop, 
nd a performance b y East
frican retro-pop group 
lsarah & the Nubatones
otted throu ghout the
onth, UCSD has gone a ll
ut in the celebration. 
“Over the past ei ght or
ne years, B lack Histor y 
onth has reall y grown 
UCSD, ” Bennetta Ju les-
Rosette , the director of both the African studies minor
and African an d African-American Researc h Center ,
commented. “It’s a very important time. A lot of [student
orgs or the minor pro gram] that specialize in black studies
use B lack Histor y Mont h to s howcase w hat pro grams
they’re doing. It’s a lso important for stu dents, so t hatBlack History Month 
is an all-out one-month celebration of Africans and African-Americans in history. Sponsoring around 50 to 60 different events, UC San Diego has become a frontrunner in the celebration of this event. At the same time, it is more than that. In a way, Black History Month provides a cultural window that leads to a greater understanding of diversity. 
By Madeline Park // Staff Writer
Te
Ce
Af
an
an
Af
Al
do
m
ou
ni
M
at“R i i b d l k f
Racism is based on lack of 
know ledge, lack of ability to
i
interact wit h peop le from differen t 
cultures an d backgroun ds. So t he
m
more peop le from different cu ltures
a
and backgroun ds come to gether —
whether it’s throu gh their courses
or social  activities  — the better. ”
! 
%&#$'
#"&
!$&#"
#$!!
ILLUSTRATION  BY DAVID D JU AREZ ILLUSTRRATATIONBY DDAV
VID JUAAVIDJUA
RR
EE
ZZ
SeeBLACK HISTORY M ONTHpage 7

  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
students … can be expose d t o  s o m e  o f these t hings in
more or less a fun wa y. Because sometimes it’s a lecture
but sometimes it mi ght be like a dance wor kshop or just
a lunch. So it’s about education but it’s also about fun. ” 
Events suc h as t hese are w hat add a bit of life to 
campus amidst the gloom of winter quarter.
“I think I almost like this time of year the best at
UCSD because everyw here you go t here’s goo d food, 
there’s all kinds of thin gs happenin g, and these thin gs
are a ll open to ever ybody on t he campus, ” Ju les-Rosette
said. “So what UCSD is doin g to celebrate Black Histor y 
Month, I think, is reall y good. ”
UCSD has prove d to be one o f the leaders in ce lebratin g
Black Histor y Month. In fact, UCSD is one of the onl y 
UC sc hools to dedicate t he entiret y of Februar y to t his
celebration, wit h most sc hools on ly dedicatin g one
to two weeks. UCSD also provides around 50 to 60
activities over t he course o f the mont h, ensurin g that
students wi ll get a full range of different experiences t hat
suit their in dividual  interests.
This plethora o f opportunities is helped by the fact t hat 
so man y different departments and people are willin g to
contri bute. Wit h preparations usua lly beginnin g in ear ly 
August, it ta kes a massive amount o f cooperation an d
coordination amon g several groups of people in order to 
make Black Histor y Mont h happen .
“[I think Black Histor y Month is so great] because 
faculty, staff, and students have joine d together an d just
worked really hard to ma ke it a good mont h. … Ever yone
brin gs their contribution to the whole month, ” Jules -
Rosette said. “I think Chancellor Khosla tries to su pport
this through the Equit y, Diversit y, and Inc lusion. An d
the EDI, the y support some of the fundin g of it. And I
think that the campus va lues it because t hey see it rea lly 
works as a time of celeb ration.”
However, B lack Histor y Mont h represents more t han
just a mere ce lebration. In a wa y, it serves as a remin der
of the racism that African-Americans and African people
went an d continue to go through today. For examp le,
2010’s Compton Coo kout is sti ll fresh in UCSD’s histor y, 
a school normall y known for its diverse environment.
Including the recent disruptions an d distur bances ma de
by white supremacists on campus, B lack Histor y Mont h
is needed  now m ore than ever.
With the tota l num ber o f African-American an d
African students at UCSD ran ging around a mere 1.5 to
2 percent o f the tota l population, it is c lear t hat this is a 
group t hat is severe ly underrepresente d. In fact, UCSD only has two minors, in A frican stu dies an d African -
American stu dies, whereas sc hools suc h as UC Riversi de
and UCLA have full African studies ma jors.
For man y, Black Histor y Mont h serves as an important
reminder of diversit y. As a student, it can become eas y 
to immerse onese lf amon g those w ho share a simi lar
race or culture. With several clubs and activities lar gely 
centerin g aroun d different racia l lines an d distinctions,
diversit y can quic kly become mute d. But it is t hrough
events and celebrations such as these that people are
given t he opportunit y to break out o f their com fort
zones an d experience somet hing outsi de of themse lves. 
This represents the true si gnificance of Black Histor y 
Mont h — that it is not just ma de for A fricans or A frican -
Americans, but for ever yone to partake in and share .
“Black Histor y Month brin gs out these various [racist]
behaviors an d it’s not like it en ded with the Com pton
Cookout. It is on going on this campus … this whole floor 
is un der the cam pus police patrol for the whole Black 
Histor y Mont h, because we’ve had van dalism, we’ve
had peop le comin g in c lasses w ho weren’t suppose d to 
be in c lasses. So a ll of the things that starte d with the
Compton Coo kout are sti ll just un der the sur face, ” Ju les-
Rosette  said. 
“I think the real answer to [reducin g racism] is in the
course, is in havin g students share all these thin gs. When
you have B lack Histor y Mont h, it’s for ever ybody. It’s not
just for black students or stu dents intereste d in black 
studies: It’s for the whole campus. So the more that you
can promote intercu ltural exc hange, the more racism
disappears. Racism is based on lack of know ledge, lack 
of ability to interact wit h peop le from different cu ltures
and backgroun ds. So t he more peop le from different 
cultures and back grounds come to gether — whether it’s
through their courses or socia l activities — t he better. ”
Not ever yone has to ta ke the African stu dies minor 
or even enroll in a course in order to beco me more
culturally aware. At t he ver y least, it is important in 
this day and age to become more open an d expose d to
various cu ltures. B lack Histor y Mont h gives peop le that
opportunit y. Already in full swin g, it has given stu dents
a full 28 da ys brimmin g with opportunit y and activit y 
that is both open an d accessi ble. W hether it comes to
joinin g African dance or mere ly sittin g and eatin g a mea l
at OVT, these activities serve as important e ye-openers
for UCSD stu dents.▶BLACK HI STORY M ONTH,from pa ge 6
!"$  	

@UCSDGUARDIAN	
## A&E EDIT OR // ALICIA LEPLE R
		 
LIFESTYLE EDIT OR // ANNIKA OLIVES

	
	  
		
Hello, Astro- lovers! Rea dy for more astro logical wisdom from t he stars? We ll, ready 
or not, t hey have some interestin g insi ghts to o ffer this wee k. So grab some tea, get
comfortable, and start readin g!
Aries
Aries, you ma y current ly feel as if somet hing is holding you back. It ma y be a person,
a feeling, an event, or an ything, but it is hard to let go of. Remem ber, you are t he on ly 
person w ho can contro l your own feelings, so ta ke charge and live life freely.
Tauru s
So man y changes have entere d your life recent ly, Taurus. As a stea dy Eart h sign who
loves consistenc y, this is frightenin g and nerve-wrac king. Despite t he slight anxiet y 
it ma y cause, chan ge is good. Take this stru ggle and learn to grow from it. Thin gs are
lookin g up.
Gemin i
An unusua l feeling of sloth has come over you lately, Gemini. It has affected not on ly 
the body, but the min d. This ma y be due to recent un healthy actions. To com bat this, get
some exercise an d eat t hose greens! Y ou wi ll be feeling great an d back to norma l soon .
Cance r
Famil y and friends mean ever ything, but a certain person has been a pain. The y are
usuall y so eas y to get alon g with, but somethin g has chan ged. Instead of lettin g this eat
away at you, ta lk to them. One never knows w hat is happenin g in anot her person’s life,
so hear them out.
Leo
Leo, a lways ver y loud and prou d, your persona lity is stron g and not one to be messe d
with. On t he other hand, sensitivit y and gentleness is nee ded sometimes. Not ever yone
reacts t he same wa y to ever ything. Learn to so ften some rou gh edges an d see w here it
can lead.
Virgo
Meticu lous is your mi ddle name, Vir go, but mista kes are ma de sometimes. It is
necessar y to not dwell on t hese errors. T he past is t he past, an d ever yone has to let go
of it at some point. Do not let former mis haps ruin t he future. Start over an d shoot for
the stars.Libra
A new opportunit y has presente d itself, Libra, but it wi ll not be an eas y task to ta ke on.
You must make the decision to commit to it; onl y then will new blessin gs be presented.
Do not be afraid and get cau ght up in the “what ifs. ” The y will onl y prevent you from
succee ding.
Scorpio
Scorpio, you possess passions for man y things, which is a good thing; however, t his
can be overw helming. Being a part o f too many t hings can be draining. Learn to pic k 
and choose commitments because at t he end of the day, you are your most important
commitment.
Sagittariu s
Sagittarius, you are often ver y independent and firm re gardin g decisions, but this has 
been compromised. Recentl y, you feel forced to do somethin g. It is eas y to sa y “yes, ” but
saying “no” is OK and necessar y at times, so do not feel bad for sa ying it.
Capricor n
Emotiona l expression is not a common strengt h for Capricorns, but it has its moments
to shine. Y our loved ones know how deeply you care for them, but voca l remin ders can
do wonders. Remember to call your mom and tell her you love her .
Aquariu s
Aquarius season ha s  c o m e  t o  a n  e n d, but it was un deniably a great mont h for
Aquarii ever ywhere. T he growt h and stren gth uncovere d during this time s hould not be
forgotten. Ta ke this new found development an d explore its potentia l.
Pisces
Y es, t he wait has been long and difficult, but it is finally Pisces season. T his upcomin g
month has so muc h to o ffer. Emotiona l intuition wi ll be off the charts, so ta ke advanta ge
of this. Also, a new love, passion, or happiness wi ll enter life soon. Be open to ever ything.
Wow, these horoscopes have a lot of potential, ri ght? Remember, the cosmos know all, 
so keep your horoscope in min d this wee k. Unti l next time, Astro- lovers !By Natas ha Van damme
// Contri buting Writer:
This year, on Apri l 27th, it wi ll be my mom an d
dad’s 27th weddin g anniversar y. Before m y parents
were marrie d in 1991, t hey met seven years prior 
on a blind date. M y dad, 29, an d my mom, 18, met
for dinner at the house  of a mutual  friend and as the
story goes, t hey hit it o ff. At t he end of the night, my 
dad walked my mom out to t he car an d asked for her
num ber. No pieces o f paper avai lable, my dad pulled
out a little matc hbook, where m y mom wrote her
name and number. Handin g the matchbook over,
my mom tried to nonchalantl y ask m y dad when she
thought he’d give her a ca ll. Playing t hings equa lly 
as coo l, my dad told her he’d see how t he wee kend 
turned out and probabl y call her around then.
He ca lled the next day. 
I always love hearin g this stor y because m y dad
is not exact ly what I t hink of as a romantic in an y 
way. Ever y year, Valentine’s Da y went the same in
my house; Da d stoppe d at t he grocer y store on t he
way home from wor k to scroun ge for a bouquet o f 
flowers from the nearl y empt y floral section, a bo x 
of chocolates, and alwa ys one of those “Y ou drive
me craz y, but I love you an yway” Hallmark cards.
My sister and I would each receive our own kid -
sized chocolate boxes an d cheesy card. (I know I 
still have a card featurin g the cast of “Camp Rock”
sittin g in m y room somew here.…) I on ly remem ber
looking forwar d to t he day because it was t he one 
night a year m y parents would splur ge on orderin g
Chinese ta keout for dinner. A ll other anniversaries
and birthdays wor ked just a bout t he same wit h my 
dad. Most o f the time, it was my sister an d I dragging 
him to the mall so we could guide him throu gh the 
process o f gift giving. My mom wou ld always hintto us w hat she had been e yeing, knowin g we wou ld
be the ones pic king presents out, not my dad. This
system wor ked, though. My dad mana ged to cover
the basics: never extrava gant, but alwa ys showed up
in some wa y.
My parents’ marria ge can be descri bed as
decentl y avera ge; I don’t remember ever reall y havin g
a babysitter because t hey always sta yed in wit h
my sister an d I. Over t he years, t hey faced their
challenges as most marrie d coup les do. I know m y 
mom secretl y wished for a little more (do not get her 
starte d on t he sheer c heapness o f her we dding ring!).
Financia lly, she knew an y sort o f grand gesture wasn’t
exact ly realistic. M y mom an d dad underwent hard
times to gether and ma ybe had more than their fair
share o f fights, but they staye d toget her throug h it all.
However, in Apri l of 2014, my dad was diagnose d 
with Sta ge IV kidne y cancer. He had just about made
it to nine mont hs before he lost his battle in Januar y 
of 2015.
My dad alwa ys had a bedside table next to him
where he kept his glasses, watc h, and alarm c lock.
There was a drawer , but I had never looked insi de 
of it. A few months after m y dad’s passin g, my mom
and I looked through it to gether. We found some
old paperwork, a few “#1 Dad” drawings from m y 
sister and I, a ke ychain given to him b y the plumber’s
union he had worked for, and an Eric Claptonconcert ticket from 1987. Underneath all of that
,
there was one more t hing. There was somet hing that
ended up matterin g more than an ything else to m y 
mom: an old , worn out matchbook with her name
and number wri tten on the back.  By Colleen Conra di // Contri buting Write r 		 
PHOTO COU RTESY OF COLLEEN CONRAD ILIFESTYLE        THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Transferring from my small town of Bakersfield, to a larger city in San 
Diego felt like being a student-athlete drafted to play in the big league. 
Arriving at UC San Diego, I thought I could accurately predict what 
my college experience would be like — effortless and full of late-night 
adventures. 
This conception was soon upended after my first quarter was in the 
books and grades were released. Unsatisfied with both my academic performance and GPA, I felt my grades did not accurately depict the student I was. The only explanation I gave myself for this, was that maybe 
“I’m just a bad test taker. ” 
I started to routinely associate with this justification whenever a 
classmate would ask me why I performed so poorly on an exam. In reality, I was not prepared for the competitive nature and higher standard that 
is expected from UCSD students. Classes are often taught by respected research professors, expecting students to dedicate hours digesting and 
learning the in-depth material in a narrow time frame.
It was second quarter midterms when I decided to no longer be 
defined by my poor grades. This realization stemmed from an insightful conversation with a close friend from my community college. After 
listening to my predicament, he quickly pinpointed why I was earning those low test scores. The undeniable fact was, a good test taker prioritizes school over their 
social life. The “ A ” student takes care of all academic responsibilities first, 
before arranging a fun night with friends. Reflecting back to last quarter, I 
recognized that more of my time was spent hanging out than studying. As a result, my grades suffered and left me to blame no one besides myself. 
This realization was painful to accept, but he was right. The student 
who’s actively preparing and reviewing material early on, compared to another who crams weeks of information the day before the exam, will achieve significantly different scores. The moral of this story is this: You 
get out what you put in. 
Now, what about those who face difficulty in taking tests? The students 
who experience an uncontrollable amount of test anxiety, consequently leading them to perform badly on every exam. Well, first I’ d agree with 
them that assessments may not be the best indicator of whether or not a student is competent enough on a concept or subject. 
There are many external factors that could offer an explanation for why 
someone performs badly on a test. Unfortunately, we have no control over this aspect of education. Instead of opposing this, we must focus on the 
one thing we can control — our effort. Knowing the fact that we may not 
be great at tests, we can use this as an enforcer to be on top of assignments early on. 
Call it what you want, vaginas (biologically) or “honeypot” (apparently) at UC San Diego, 
but there is plenty of conversation to be had. This past weekend, an all-womxn student group 
performed Eve Ensler’s “The Vagina Monologues” and compiled UCSD TheirStories to give a 
voice to the vagina.  
AO : What did you think of the production in general? 
BL: To be honest, I went to bed after seeing the show, and so my thoughts are still being 
processed. But I did get a chance to see VagMo last year, and it was interesting to see the various 
ways the same pieces were interpreted. Each womxn really claimed the piece for herself and 
gave their unique voice to issues about sexuality, the female body, and gendered identities that 
transcend over time. I also think there was an evident level of care that went into the production 
of the space itself; I appreciated the communal collage backdrop for the show and the list of 
womxn who inspired and empowered the cast and crew included in the playbill. It seemed to 
create a culture that claimed a femininity to all, both past and present. 
AO : It made me miss theater a lot, actually. I miss being up on stage and telling people’s 
stories, and I think it was really brave of all the womxn in the production to perform a piece like 
this, especially when we know that a lot of the country still doesn’t believe in womxn’s rights. I 
thought it was especially interesting how they brought up Trump and how he’s not only a non-
advocate, but a perpetrator himself, and he’s the one leading this country. 
All in all, I really enjoyed the show, but, in a way, it was almost frustrating because it’s like 
preaching to the choir. A lot of people in the room probably already believed in the ideals that 
the performance was advocating for, and the people that need to hear it most were probably not 
present. 
BL: I appreciate your comment about how the people in the crowd might already share 
similar values and that there might be those who need to hear these stories but are not there. I’m chewing on that, do you feel like if there are those who don’t necessarily share these ideals sitting 
in the crowd, it would feel like a safe space for such vulnerable storytelling? I guess it also begs 
the question of what the intent of VagMo is too. Is it storytelling? Is it awareness and advocacy? 
A bit of both? 
AO : I think that’s a good point too. I guess, at UCSD, the purpose seems to be more 
empowerment and support than anything else. I think the existence of the piece itself is powerful 
enough — it’s almost showing that we’re not afraid to talk about these things anymore. 
BL: True. I love that sentiment that there is so much power and ownership in the existence 
of it. The fact there is a creative platform like this existing for both expression and advocacy says a lot. I think something else that was striking was the amount of audience participation 
in being able to reclaim certain words — and thus body parts — or in the “say her name” piece 
to indirectly give voice and awareness to survivors of sexual abuse. There was a lot of shared 
ownership last night. Did you have a favorite piece from last night?
AO : I really liked the piece about the womxn who was asexual. I have a friend who’s asexual, 
but I’ve never really asked him about his experiences, just because I didn’t want to overstep 
and I wouldn’t even know how to begin that conversation. That monologue gave a voice to a 
community I feel like not a lot of people know a lot about. 
I also feel like my favorite pieces were the ones that made me the most uncomfortable. Like 
the moaning piece, initially I felt “merrgghh” when I was watching it, but then it forced me to 
take a step back and ask, oh, why do I feel this way? So it was almost a challenge to unpack the 
thoughts and uneasiness I didn’t know I had, which I welcomed and appreciated. What about 
you?BL: The piece that stood out to me was probably “The Flood. ” I feel like sometimes when it 
comes to sexuality and the female body, we often don’t get a chance to hear from womxn over the age of 40. It’s almost like at the brink of 39, sex is so taboo and the female body must be hidden, 
you know? So I really liked how this piece gave some insight into how words shared at a young 
age can lead to internalized misogyny, affecting the way womxn see themselves, their bodies and 
their sexuality over time, but also voicing that you are no less of a woman when you pass your 
20s or 30s. 
AO : Do you think this changed your definition of feminism or what it means to be a womxn?
BL: I don’t think VagMo necessarily changed my definition of feminism, but it did showcase 
a side of feminism that we might not often see in the overtly visible political or social culture. To me, sexuality has always been a more nuanced and quieted part of my own understanding 
of feminism, and as I’m learning and listening to more stories, I do appreciate the more holistic perspectives and intersectional experiences being shared through VagMo, and hope it continues 
to do the same in future productions. 
AO : I would agree. I don’t think it changed my definition, but it gave voices to the womxn 
that I knew existed but didn’t necessarily acknowledge until last night. 
All proceeds from “The Vagina Monologues” at UCSD went to Break the Silence, a non-profit 
supporting survivors of domestic violence, and License to Freedom, a non-profit that promotes education, awareness, and safe spaces for refugee and immigrant womxn who face or are 
survivors of sexual and domestic abuse. For on-campus resources to address sexual harassment 
and assault, please contact CARE at SARC by calling 858-534-5993. By Fred Grier // Contributing Writer
By Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor 
Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle EditorGood Student, Bad Test Taker
Lifestyle Living Room: VagMoRE
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G
“Love, Simon” presents a new teen classic with character, sincerit y, and lots of heart .
The film adaptation of Beck y Albertalli’s
beloved young-adult novel “Simon vs.
the Homo Sapien A genda” features 
enou gh teen-movie-star veterans to make for 
a so lid high school flick; Kat herine Lan gford
(“13 Reasons Wh y”), Kei ynan Lonsdale
(“Diver gent”), and Jennifer Garner ( “Juno”).
However, “Love, Simon” goes be yond the trite
formu la an d turns t he basic narrative ri ght on
its head, thankfully surpassin g the tra gic, an gsty 
gay tropes t hat plague most LGBTQ films.
Seventeen- year-old closeted Simon Spier
(Nic k Robinson) lives t he life of any high school
senior — gettin g iced coffee wit h his three best 
friends, participatin g in the school musical,
and countin g down t he days unti l graduation.
However, t hings change when Simon discovers
there’s another bo y at school harborin g the same
secret, but Simon doesn’t know an ything about
him, ot her than an emai l and a pseu donym.
Simon t herefore reac hes out un der the alias “Jacques, ” and to his surprise, “Blue” (Bram 
Green field) emai ls him back. Watc hing Simon 
confide in B lue is definite ly heartwarmin g, but
the plot twists and turns when Simon’s emails
become compromise d and his digital safe haven 
beco mes a collect ion of black mail material.
The plot of the movie mirrors t he book well,
translatin g Simon’s heartfelt stor y seamlessl y 
onto the silver screen. The film flits between 
Simon’s sc hool and home life, and the viewer 
catches little glimpses o f Simon’s wor ld between
it all. From the “Adventure Time” fi gurines
and Panic! At t he Disco posters in his room to
his Dan Ra dcliffe-induced sexua l awa kenin g,
Simon is not on ly a re latable character, but
one t hat feels as rea l as a friend. He’s incre dibly 
sympat hetic, emotiona l, an d genuine, w hich
is difficult to find with a male lead of a teen
movie.
“Love, Simon” is comedic but not chees y; it 
is dramatic, but not over ly so. T he film stri kesa per fect balance between t hese two genres
and makes for an en joyable watch without
the au dience e ye-rolling at a desperate jab
appea ling to mi llennia l humor. T he soun dtrack 
features new son gs from Bleachers, Tro ye Sivan, 
and Khalid, which successfull y complement
ever y scene. Appropriate ly enou gh, it’s music
that Simon would have in his own pla ylist.
The writin g is witt y and modern, and while 
the adults don’t p lay too big a ro le in t he movie,
they don’t remain in t he backgroun d either. 
Y es, “Love, Simon” can be considered a famil y 
movie, but it’ s more a bout Simon’s journe y and
little triump hs than an ything else.
While the film does  take a few artistic
liberties, suc h as bumpin g Simon’s a ge up
to 17, t he sma ll change is un derstan dable; it 
emphasizes t hat Simon’s time to come out
durin g high school is swi ftly comin g to a c lose.
The chan ge isn’t impactful enou gh to jeopardize 
the inte grity of the nove l, but it does tie in t hebroader theme o f the stor y. While comin g out
is important to Simon, “Love, Simon” is more
than just a comin g-out stor y, an d the film 
strives to demonstrate just t hat.
“Love, Simon” is a love stor y, but it’s not
about him fallin g in love, reall y. Figurin g out 
who Blue is comes secon d to t he rea l plot, 
which is Simon figurin g out himse lf. Simon
learns to love himse lf before lovin g someone 
else, not throu gh lovin g someone else .
No, t he movie isn’t outra geous ly min d-
blowin g. But it is a nice watc h that leaves you 
with a warm, fuzz y feelin g and a few happ y 
tears. “Love, Simon” is a love letter (or email,
in this case), to new beginnin gs an d finding
oneself and ma ybe someone else alon g the wa y.
Just ma ybe.
—" *'% &


	

(.#&('
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Directed by   
GrGregeg Berlanti
Starring  
 Nick R obinson, Kat herine Lan gfgord, Kei ynan L onsd ale, Jennifer Garner
Release Date   
Mar. 1 6, 2018 
Rated   
PG-13
C	
@UCSDGUARDIAN
 (($A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
In her latest album, Brandi Carlile delivers a soul-baring slice of Americana. “By 
the Way, I Forgive Y ou” is a manifestation of Carlile’s artistic versatility, toying with 
pop, folk, and rock as the singer-songwriter navigates the tumultuous terrain of post-break-up heartbreak and eventual renewal.
The album’s opening track, “Every Time I Hear that Song” grapples with the 
enduring memory of a former love. Carlile chants the album’s titular “By the way, I forgive you” to gentle guitar plucking and rich three-part harmonies. “The Joke” is an impassioned offering to those marginalized by gender binaries and other societally-imposed restrictions, offering words of comfort and promising to turn the tables. In a jubilant chorus, Carlile’s voice soars with unbridled soul, demonstrating the capacity of her belting range and emotional reach. 
“Hold Out Y our Hand” is a thumping, triumphal revelation of grit and 
empowerment. Fast-paced verses of biting, yodeled lyrics document Carlile’s solitary strife before the shouted proclamation, “The devil can’t have my soul. ” Carlile’s resonant vocals and unbridled earnesty pervade the song (and album) and elevate her music, allowing her to transcend the potential schmaltz factor with a somewhat hackneyed outro of “ba da da ba da da. ”
Toward the middle of the album, Carlile enhances the theme of forgiveness with 
a meditation on faith and unserved justice. In “Fulton County Jane Doe” — which opens with a guitar intro referencing Buffalo Springfield’s “For What It’s Worth” — Carlile promises to preserve the memory of a nameless Fulton County murder victim and laments, “God, the whole world’s gone crazy / And there’s only God to blame, ” before declaring, “Y ou’re more than Fulton County, Fulton County Jane. ” In “Sugartooth, ” Carlile honors the life and death of a cocaine addict, crying, “He was a liar, but not a fraud / Living proof that there was no God. ” 
The album closes with the vulnerable “Party of One. ” The track begins stripped 
down to Carlile’s vocals and an accompanying piano as the singer struggles against the specters of isolation and bitterness. She recounts her romantic frustrations and enduring devotion and her eventual surrender to the refrain, “I am yours, ” cues a swelling orchestral accompaniment that closes out the track. Violin harmonies layer atop one another in an unresolved major chord, culminating on a hopeful note but not quite settling. 
Carlile’s latest work is a breath of fresh air in a musical landscape seemingly 
dominated by homogeneous synth-infused melancholia and electronically reconfigured vocals. Carlile’s voice speaks for itself, and there’s something undeniably appealing about the tried-and-true marriage of acoustic guitars, violins, tambourines, and a steady drum beat. With “By the Way, I Forgive Y ou, ” Carlile offers a labor of love and a charming antidote to the banality of modern-day country.
—   Ma y a  kleiman
 A&E Editorial Assistant
By   t h e   W a y ,    I    F o r g i v e   Yo uby   Brandi   Carlile
Release Date  Feb. 16, 2018
Brandi Carlile reckons with resentment, a forlorn ex-lover, and grief, all with unbound honesty and a country twang.ALBUM   REVIEW
A-12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
Migos’ “Culture II” wears its production like haute couture: 
Cardi B, Nicki Minaj, 21 Savage, Drake, Gucci Mane, Travis Scott, Big Sean, Ty Dolla Sign, Post Malone, and 2 Chainz all 
feature. Quavo, DJ Durel, Metro Boomin, Zaytoven, Kanye West, Pharrell Williams, and a veritable swarm of producers shepherded the project to completion. It weighs in at a hefty 24 tracks. “Culture II” is more than an record; it’s a declaration of their heavyweight hip-hop influence. 
The result? A sonically coherent, sleekly-made beast of an album, 
dripping with collaborators and trap beats. The individual pieces tend to blend together, however; “Culture II” may be a standout, but its constituent elements often fall flat. Its two singles, “MotorSport” and “Stir Fry, ” are tepid but radio-friendly. Both squeeze out copious cultural references; “Life’s Monopoly, go cop me some land and some property / AP , Rolls, pink diamonds, whoa / Whip up the soda, diamonds off the Royce, ” and keep a steady, rolling pace. But the name-dropping overstays its welcome; the Migos lean so heavily on the conceit that it occasionally veers into parody. 
Drake’s appearance on “Walk It Talk It” is symptomatic of a larger 
malaise that permeates “Culture II;” it isn’t uninspired, but the resulting song is only passable. Other contributors, like Nicki Minaj and 21 Savage, make more of an impact, but “Culture II’s” overblown length leaves them floundering. “Culture II” falls into a call-and-refrain rut, with tracks running over 
four minutes. It could have easily been trimmed to a leaner two-minute length. The sound engineers coat their work in a sumptuous layer of synths and snares, but the resulting melange is more mumbled complaint than searing lyrical commentary.
Nonetheless, “Stir Fry” proves a fun, unruffled dance piece. It’s 
patently silly, as the lyrics prove, but unlike “MotorSport, ” it doesn’t make much of an effort not to be. Rapping about Chinese food over a funky, whistle-flute backdrop makes for a good time. Heck, Migos drops lines about “blue cheese” and “cheat code[s], ” and how “She got a big ol’ onion booty, make the world cry. ” Seriousness left the kitchen a while back, apparently.
The remainder of “Culture II” doesn’t follow “Stir Fry”’s tongue-
in-cheek zaniness, which is a pity. Promotional single “Supastars” is particularly dull — copious allusions to “Brand new cars” and “Swang doors now” don’t hold a candle to the kid-in-the-candy-shop glee of “Stir Fry. ” The delivery isn’t phoned in, but the content is; “Culture II” isn’t a bad album, but it lacks the intensity and concentration of the original. 
—   Alicia  Lepler
 A&E Editor
Cul ture   IIby   Migos
Release Date  Jan. 26, 2018
“Culture II” is a tepid arrangement of just-alright hip-hop pieces.ALBUM   REVIEW
C- 	 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
UCEN PRESENTS:  BRENT FAIYAZTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 26 - MAR 42018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANMONDAY , FEBRUARY 26

	
	

every MONDAY
in The GuardianCalendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguardian.org9am
MFA OPEN STUDIOS & PHD 
SYMPOSIUM - VISUAL ARTS PRESENTATION LAB
SENSORY DISRUPTIONS: Confronting the Primacy 
of the Visual. / Keynote Presentation: Blind Self-Portraits: Remaking the Image of Blindness, by Georgina Kleege, Lecturer in English at the University of California, Berkeley. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
You will receive a computer generated analysis 
with the following information: body weight, body mass index (BMI), percentage of body fat, calculated basal metabolic rate (BMR), fat mass, fat-free mass, and total body water. Email the following information to studenthealth@ucsd.edu to make an appointment. Please use the subject line "Secure: Body Composition Analysis". You will be contacted with a confirmed appointment date and time. Contact: studenthealth@ucsd.edu
3pm
FLOURISH @ UC SAN DIEGO - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well 
at UC San Diego? Dr. Morgan Anderson and a Wellness Peer Educator provide informative and interactive exercises to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, and self-compassion with Dr. Morgan Anderson. Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
7pm
FREE SPEECH AND THE UNIVERSITY: 
HISTORICAL ROOTS AND CURRENT CHALLENGES - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Erwin Chemerinsky, one of the country's 
preeminent constitutional scholars and dean of the University of California, Berkeley's law school, will discuss the intersection of the First Amendment and higher education in a talk that will be of interest to students, faculty, staff, and campus leaders. A book signing will immediately follow the event. Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Questions? Contact The Zone at via email or call (858) 534-5553. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5:30pm
DISRUPTOR SERIES: FEMVC - THE 
BASEMENT, MANDEVILLE CENTER
Join us for a panel discussion on Venture 
Capital moderated by Greg Horowitt '80. Panelists will delve into a conversation on approaches, share their individual perspectives, and engage in a Q & A session on Venture Capital. The panel will include several Venture Capital experts including Allison Pettine Long 04 Founding Partner at Seed San Diego, Ann Crady Weiss 93 Venture Partner at True Ventures and Kim Folsom, Founder of LIFT Development Enterprises, Inc. and Co-Founder and CEO of Founders First Capital Partners, LLC.Contact: thebasement@ucsd.edu
8pm
ALSARAH & THE NUBATONES - 
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Born in Sudan, raised in Yemen, and now 
based in Brooklyn, Alsarah is not only a gifted musician and singer but also a self-proclaimed practitioner of East African retro-pop. Since their first show in 2011, the group has performed nationally and internationally at many prestigious festivals and venues to audiences varying in age and ethnicity, proving that soul crosses all cultural and linguistic barriers. Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.comTUE2.27
THU 3.01
SAT3.03MON 2.26
12pm
WHOS FIRST? FIRST GENERATION 
COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM - ROOM 555, STUDENT SERVICES CENTER, 5TH FLOOR
The "Whos First?" Forum provides participants 
with a supportive, private environment to discuss their experiences as first-generation college students. Contact: rluna@ucsd.edu
3pm
BEFORE #METOO: THE HISTORY OF 
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION & RESPONSE AT UCSD - PC EAST BALLROOM
Join CARE at SARC for a conversation about the 
grassroots activists who built the foundation for sexual assault prevention and support services at UC San Diego. The work of these trailblazers led to the establishment of CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center in 1988. Panelists include students and staff from the original Rape Prevention Education workgroup and founding staff members of CARE at SARC. Contact: meguchi@ucsd.edu
4pm
THE CONTINUOUS CLAPBACK, PART 
I: THE LEGACY OF LANGUAGE - GREAT HALL, INTERNATIONAL
Alyesha Wise and Miki Vale illustrate how Black 
women continue to use language as a vehicle for challenging power, stereotypes, and marginalization. Inspire audiences to engage with language as constructions of self-reflection, political activism, cultural awareness, and love. Contact: mdhines@ucsd.edu11:30am
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY: 
SPINACH-CHIVE PESTO PASTA - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come join us as we demo Spinach-Chive Pesto 
Pasta, hosted by Vivian Lau, an HPS Assistant, and enjoy some FREE samples! All materials and ingredients will be provided. Seating is based on first come, first serve. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
GUEST LECTURE: MARTHA ROSLER 
- VISUAL ARTS PRESENTATION LAB
Martha Roslers work is included in the exhibition 
Stories That We Tell: Art and Identity, currently on view in the University Art Gallery through March 3rd. For her visit on February 26th, she will discuss her work and experience. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
BRENT FAIYAZ - THE LOFT, PC EAST
R&B vanguard Brent Faiyaz released his 
highly-anticipated debut full-length project 'Sonder Son' on October 13. The project marks a return to form for Faiyaz, serving as his first solo release since last year's A.M. Paradox EP , and proves to be an amalgamation of Faiyazs introspective yet relatable lyrics and authentically crafted productions. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
FRI3.02WED 2.28THE LOFT, PC EAST
11am
LGBTQIA+ HEALTH DAY - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER
We'll have HIV testing services provided by 
Family Health Centers, Free safer sex giveaways through the Health Promotion Services & Student Health Advocates (Safer) Sex Shop + Condom Bar and so much more! Contact: rainbow@ucsd.edu
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: LADY BIRD - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
Join us for a screening of the 
critically-acclaimed film Lady Bird, recent winner of Golden Globe awards for Best Picture and Best Actress: "Christine 'Lady Bird' McPherson fights against but is exactly like her wildly loving, deeply opinionated and strong-willed mom, a nurse working tirelessly to keep her family afloat after Lady Bird's father loses his job. Set in Sacramento, California in 2002, amidst a rapidly shifting American economic landscape, Lady Bird is an affecting look at the relationships that shape us, the beliefs that define us, and the unmatched beauty of a place called home." FREE and exclusive for UCSD undergraduate students. Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
8pm
NEW BREED BRASS BAND - PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
New Breed Brass Band live and breathe the 
culture of New Orleans, infusing funk, rock, jazz, and hip-hop into a custom-made enhancement of second-line brass-band tradition. New Breed Brass Band are certain to sweep the audience away with the spirit of NOLA! Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.com
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 	


DID YOUKNOW?FEB 28 - National
Tooth Fairy DayCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classiﬁeds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Aftern oon affairs
5. Specks
9. Canta loupe, e. g.
14. Televisi on award
15. The ____  Office
16. Green sh ade
17. Experts
18. Su b store
19. Designate s
20. Spoke of
22. Separat e
23. Passover me al
24. Em bosse d emblems
26. Store
29. Ca pital of Austria
33. Beer in gredient
36. Gobs
39. Cereal gras s
40. Squea k by
41. Curious woman of m yth
42. GI’s c lub
43. Distinctive tim e
44. Appra ise
45. Finger noise
46. Most recen t
48. Sc hool exa m
50. Intense beam
53. Documen t
57. Fra gmen t
60. Butter s ubstitute
63. Throw
64. Color ful gem
65. Escort
66. Dine d
67. Fork featur e
68. Was hington bills
69. Fig ht site
70. S light advanta ge
71. In additionDOWN
 1. Athletic group s
2. TV host
3. Alter
4. Met hod s
5. Flightless bird
6. Bakin g need
7. Stories
8. Coas t
9. Da Vinci portrait (2 w ds.)
10. Go by, as time
11. South American capita l
12. Ended
13. Cozy p lace
21. Pension plan (a bbr.)
25. Reluctant
27. Uses t he oven
28. Heav y weight s
30. Part o f speech
31. Space agency (a bbr.)
32. Above
33. Soc k par t
34. Gumbo in gredien t
35. Bog fuel
37. Presi dent before JFK
38. Missin g
41. Rose Bow l city
45. Actor’s goa l
47. Gridiron number
49. Health club
51. Overact
52. Spee dy
54. Liberace’s instr ument
55. Door si gn
56. ____ Witherspoon o f “Sweet Home
Alabama ”
57. Citi Fie ld predecessor
58. Listen t o
59. Ju dge
61. Sounded a bell
62. Happ inessHOUSING
Mirada at La Jolla Colony. $1,813- $5,157.
7568 C harmant Drive, San Diego, CA, 
92122. Mirada at Jolia Colon y makes living
the good li fe better. Our beauti ful co m-
munit y is full o f fantastic amenities for all 
of our residents to enjo y. We offer one and
two bedroom a partments with fantastic
interiors and man y great features. Stop b y
and speak with one o f our friendl y ma n-
agement team mem bers to day. We wou ld
love to s how you aroun d. Visit us to day 
and make San Diego, California your new
home.......ucsdguardian.org/classi fieds for
more in formation
Vanta ggio Suites. $945 - $1,320. 1736 State 
Street, San Diego, CA 92101. Vantaggio
Suites in San Diego lies in the heart o f 
Little Ita ly, a c harming p lace lined wit h
sidewalk cafes and numerous rest aurants.
Your new apartment here is just blocks
away from Downtown and the harbor, 
and onl y minutes awa y from the Gaslamp
Quarter and San Die go Airport. We o ffer
short an d long term renta ls. We a lso have 
a communit y kitchen an d dining. We look 
forward to making Vantaggio Suites your
new home.......ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
for more in formation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,395 -
$3,090. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Die go,
CA, 92115. Convenient ly locate d across t he
street from SDSU, we have a variet y of floorplans for all your needs. These floor plans 
include s pacious one, two and three be d-
rooms, some poolside or up graded. Bein g 
located in the heart o f the college area you
will find shopping centers, banks, a librar y,
schools, freeways and more. We look for -
ward to s howing you your new home at 
College Campanile Apartments!......ucs d-
guardian.or g/classi fieds for more in forma -
tion
JOBS
Retail Sales Ass ociate. Cox Comm unications.
Chula Vista, CA 91910. As a Retai l Sales
Associate, you wi ll play a pivota l role in t he
continued stability and growth of our org a-
nization, by serving as a front-line amba s-
sador o f the Cox brand. Workin g in a Cox
Solutions Store, you wi ll gui de customers
throug h the purc hase decision, insta lla-
tion process and education of Cox product 
and accessory o fferings while providing an
exceptional customer experience.........uc s-
dguardian.or g/classi fieds for more in for-
mation
Swim Instructors and Lifeguards. Aqua Pros 
Swim School. 4635 Clairemont Mesa Blvd. ,
San Die go 92117. We are seekin g those
who love c hildren, swimmin g and want to
make a difference in the lives of others. Our warm 90*in
door swimming poo l and year-
round swim program has opportunities for
you!........ucsdguardian.org/classi fieds for
more in formatio n
San Diego AP C hemistr y Tutor Jo bs. Varsit y 
Tutors. San Diego, CA 92130. Varsit y Tutors 
is always looking for bright individuals in
San Die go who are passionate about me n-
torin g others. Aside from havin g know l-
edge in a su bject area, tutors s hould also
be friendly, articulate, and punctual. We put 
forth great e ffort to match students to 
the ri ght tutors, resultin g in relationships
that provide for great learnin g enviro n-ments........ucsdguardian.org/classifieds form
ore in formation
BIKES
Saris 3 Bic ycle Rack (Bones RS). San Diego,
CA 92101. Li ke new. Use d only 2-3 times
max! Moving must sell. Specifications: Ratching system eliminates straps and fits
wide range o f vehichles, Rubber-coated
clips and steel-belted bands secure the
rack to your ve hicle, Pivoting anti-swa ys 
and hold downs easi ly adjust to secure your
vehicle, integrate d locking system a dds
security, Easy to load up to three bikes,
Designed for a famil y of bikes - from small -
est to t he biggest.......ucs dguardian.or g/
classi fieds for more in formatio n
Vinta ge 1950 Women’s Beach Cruiser 26 ” 
Columbia Bic ycle. San Diego, CA 92116. We
did an overhaul of the bic ycle and cleaned /
greased ever ything. The bic ycle was san d-
ed down and completel y repainted with a 
custom-made professional paint task (Blue 
pearl / white combination). We had the
gear, handlebars, an d some various meta l
pieces rec hrome d. Inc luded new w hite wa ll
tires, brand-new customize d meta l grips,
new w hite pedals, new w hite seat, new
decals, brand-new front fender light, and
so on.At t his time, t he bike re quires some
TLC (absolutely nothing signi ficant).....uc s-
dguardian.org/classi fieds for more in for-
mat ion
HAR O “BACKTRAIL X 1 “BMX BIKE . San 
Diego, CA 92117. HAR O “BACKTRAIL X one
RYAN NY QUIST EDITI ON” BMX FREE STYLE 
Bike EXCELLENT ! Condition “RIDE WITH THE 
BIG D OGS !” 19” center bar Hand Brake 360
degree Rotatin g Handle Bars, Super Grip 
BMX Pe dals, Foot Pe gs can be mounte d to
axles, askin g $250.00 Cash or Bank Check or
Paypa l account any questions emai l or ca ll
me Curt (858) 336-3227....ucs dguardian.
org/classi fieds for more in formatio n
W
\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUPLVVLRQ
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
*(7$)5((
4827(72'$<
PDGHWRRUGHU#XFVGHGX
Admini strative
Assistant Needed .
A Fast Growin g company i s 
currently looking for an 
upbeat individ ual t o join 
their growin g company .
The ideal candidate must 
be detail oriented with 
the ability to make quick 
decisions and communicate 
effectively computer skill s 
helpful ,($500) weekly , to
join our team.
Please re spond via 
email and in clude 
your Re sume or CV 
with a cover letter t o 
robertstoll32 @gmail .
com.



	



 	
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
In its third week of conference 
play, the UC San Diego so ftball team 
squared up against California State 
University, San Marcos. Of the four 
games played — two doubleheaders with one on Friday and one on 
Saturday — the Tritons swept the 
Cougars, winning all four games. A fter 
this weekend’s dominant performance, 
UCSD’s record advances to 13–4 
(8–4 in California Collegiate Athletic Association standings).
Game 1
UCSD opened the series strong, 
winning the first contest 5–1. At 
bat, the Tritons were inconsistent. 
In the first, third, and fifth innings, 
UCSD failed to produce any o ffense 
(combined for zero runs and hits). 
In the second, fourth, and sixth, the 
Tritons were very successful, recording 
seven hits and five runs. Junior third 
baseman Maddy Lewis and freshman catcher Bobbi Aguirre scored for two 
runs apiece. However, UCSD’s strength 
in this game was its play at field. 
CSUSM was unable to produce while 
at bat, recording only one run and one hit the entire game.
Game 2
In their second game, the Tritons 
were able to find their groove, fixing 
their inconsistencies from the first 
game. UCSD built on the momentum 
from its first game, winning 10–2 in 
just five innings. The Tritons were 
much more consistent at bat. In all 
five innings, they recorded at least 
one run. The Tritons had six di fferent 
players score points; Aguirre, once 
again, scored two runs. Much like 
the previous game, the Tritons shut down CSUSM whenever it went up to the plate. UCSD’s play at field 
was highlighted by sophomore first 
baseman Danica Kazako ff as she 
registered eight outs.
Game 3
The Tritons, in their second day 
of the series, built on the momentum 
from their last game, winning 10–1 
in a commanding fashion. In the 
second inning, the Tritons exploded 
for six runs. The next inning, the 
Cougars seemed to have caught a 
break: the Tritons had zero hits and zero runs. In the fourth inning, UCSD, 
again, shocked CSUSM with another impressive showing. The Tritons 
added five more runs to their already 
commanding lead.
Standout performances in this 
game included senior second baseman 
Kendall Baker’s three runs and Lewis’ 
and Kazako ff’s two runs each.
Game 4
The Tritons ended the series with a 
tight 7–5 victory. Unlike the last three 
games, UCSD was not dominant. 
Going into the fifth innings, UCSD 
was trailing 2–1. But there, the Tritons rediscovered their mojo. UCSD put 
together four runs, highlighted by a 
spectacular home run hit by Aguirre. The Cougars mounted a fierce 
comeback attempt in the seventh 
inning, scoring three runs; however, 
that would not be enough to overcome the Tritons’ lead.
Next week, the UCSD so ftball 
team hits the road and hopes to extend 
its win streak. They travel to Azusa, 
California on Friday, March 2 to play 
Azusa Pacific University.The UC San Diego men’s basketball 
team closed out the last two games 
of the season this past week. The 
Tritons faced o ff against California 
State University, Dominguez Hills 
and California State University, Los 
Angeles. Against Dominguez Hills, 
they were met with a heartbreaking buzzer beater that handed them a 77–76 loss against the Toros. UCSD would use the loss as motivation, blowing 
out CSULA by 20 points (84–64) two 
days after the loss against Dominguez 
Hills. Splitting the games 1–1, the 
Tritons finish the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association regular season 
with a record of 15–7, good enough for 
a third-place tie with California State 
University, San Marcos.
Vs. Dominguez Hills
The first half started slowly, with 
both teams missing a number of field 
goals in the first 10 minutes. The two 
teams stayed within reach of other, 
and it looked like they would just 
trade basketballs. However, around 
the 10:44 mark, a three-pointer by 
Toro senior guard Matt Hayes tied the 
game at 17–17. Hayes would go on to 
score two more three-pointers in the 
next five minutes that served to ignite 
the Toros o ffense. Within five minutes, 
the Tritons de ficit jumped to 13 points 
(20–33), and it looked like the game 
was getting away from them. In spite of this, the Tritons stayed strong and 
made multiple defensive stops to cut 
the lead down to five points (32–37) 
going into the second half.
Right out of the gates, junior guard 
Christian Oshita scored a layup to 
start the second half. Following a missed layup by the Toros, sophomore 
forward Scott Everman sank a three-
pointer to tie the game up at 37–37. 
For the next 12 minutes, the game 
slowed to a crawl: Neither team could pull ahead by more than five points 
and were trading baskets back and 
forth. But at the 6:56 mark, the Tritons 
pulled ahead — a steal from junior 
guard Christian Bayne led to an easy 
three-pointer by senior guard Anthony 
Ballestero. The three-pointer gave the 
Tritons a seven-point lead that they maintained until the 3:59 mark. The 
Toros scored a layup to bring the game 
to 71–69 and called a timeout. Out of 
the timeout, they switched to a 3–2 
zone that the Tritons adjusted to a little 
too late. UCSD turned the ball over 
twice following the defensive change 
and saw its lead crumble in under a 
minute. 
With a little over two minutes 
remaining, three o ffensive rebounds 
(one from Oshita and two by senior 
forward Michael Shoemaker) followed 
by a three-pointer from Bayne seemed 
to have secured the game for UCSD. 
The Toros made a layup on the other 
end but committed a foul on redshirt freshman guard Mikey Howell. 
Howell sank both free throws to put 
UCSD up by two, 76–74, with 1:01 
remaining. Dominguez Hills missed 
a layup, and the Tritons looked to 
close out the game with 39 seconds 
remaining. However, Bayne missed a 
layup with seven seconds le ft, and the 
Toros called a timeout with just four seconds on the clock. Somehow, Toros 
freshman guard Colten Kresl dribbled 
down the entire length of the court to 
sink a buzzer-beating three-pointer 
over three Tritons, crushing UCSD’s 
spirits and giving Dominguez Hills the 77–76 victory.
Vs. CSULA
Unlike the game against CSUDH, 
the game against the CSULA Golden Eagles was a very one-sided a ffair. 
UCSD started o ff slow, unable to secure 
a large lead, for the first 10 minutes of 
the half. However, the Tritons’ o ffense 
picked up, and they started raining shots on the Golden Eagles. Bayne led 
the scoring run, with seven points and 
a steal in the span of three minutes. 
The run, in conjunction with great 
defense, gave UCSD an 11-point lead over CSULA heading into hal ftime. 
The Tritons opened the second half 
with smothering defense, stealing the ball twice in the first two minutes of 
the game. Up 40–25, the Tritons kept their foot on the pedal. Relentless in 
their attack, the Tritons held a 20-point 
lead for most of the half. The Golden 
Eagles had no change, unable to match 
UCSD’s blistering-hot o ffense.
Three Tritons finished in double 
digits: Bayne had 18, Oshita finished 
with 19, and senior guard George 
Buaku chipped in with 10 of his own. 
Overall, UCSD shot a stellar 33–61 
(54.1 percent) from the field, eclipsing 
CSULA ’s field goal percentage of 39 
percent (23–59 from the field). 
With the regular season over, 
UCSD looks to face o ff against 
California State University, Stanislaus 
in the CCAA Men’s Basketball 
Tournament Quarter finals. The game 
will be at RIMAC Arena on Tuesday, Feb. 27. Tipo ff is scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. Tritons Sweep Cal 
State San MarcosUCSD Finishes 15–7, Look Toward CCAA Tournament
UC San Diego improves to 8–4 in CCAA play. Tritons split last two games of the season.
BY  W E S L E Y  X I A O
Staff WritERBY  R i c h a r d  L u
Associate Sports Editor
Wesley XIao  wex057@ucsd.edu richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G
UC San Die go vs. Ca l State
Domin guez Hills — La Jolla, C A
With pla yoffs just around theffff
corner, t he UC San Die go women’s
basketball team looked to comp lete
unfinished business in re gular 
season p lay. On Thursday night,
in front of a home crowd , the
Tritons destro yed Ca lifornia State
Universit y, Domin guez Hi lls by a
score of 90–63 .
Although they fell behind 0–2
in thefirst few secon ds of the game,
the Tritons would never trail a gain.
Sophomore guard Sydney Sharp
was res ponsible for the fir st three 
points o f the game for the Tritons
and tallied her first o f four 3- point 
executions of the evenin g. Sharp
finished wit h 12 points an dfive 
defe nsive rebou nds.
The Tritons extended their lead
to 10 heading into halftime (42–32 ).
As a team, UCSD would go on to
avera ge aroun d 20 points a quarter
until bustin g the game open in t he
last 10 minutes scorin g 27 points .
Redshirt so phomore forwar d 
Mikayla Wi lliams recor ded 21
points, nine re bounds an d twoblocks in her 31 minutes o f play.
She was 8–11 from the field and 5–6
from t he free t hrow line. In a ddition , 
on t his same day, Wi lliams was
honored for her acade mic success  in 
being selected to t he Co llege Sports
Information Dir ecto rs of Am erica
Acade mic All-Di strict First Team.
Senior forwar d Dalayna Sampton 
contributed another double-double ,
scorin g 17 points an d rac king up
13 re bounds, as we ll as two stea ls.
UCSD outscored , outrebounded
(47–33 ) and out assiste d (24–6 ) the
Toros to secure t he victor y.
Senior guard Ta ylor Tanita
facilitate d 11 assists wit h only two
turnovers to keep the Tritons rollin g.
UCSD distributed the scorin g
amon g the entire squa d, in w hich
all but two members scored. UCS D
pulled away by scoring 27 points in 
the fourt h quarter wit h a stunnin g
68.8 percent field goal percenta ge,
leavin g no c hance for CSUDH to
respond.
UC San Die go vs. Ca l State Los
Angeles — La Jolla, C A
Saturda y evenin g not onl y 
consiste d of the last re gular season
game of the 2017-18 campai gn, 
but a lso a ni ght to ce lebrate t hree 
outstan ding seniors from t he
The UC San Die go baseball team
took on Ca lifornia State Universit y, 
Dominguez Hi lls in a four-game
split venue series and came out with
a 3–1 series win as the y took the
first three games before narrowl y 
losin g the last series fi nale. With the 
series win, U CSD im proves to 5–3
in the Ca lifornia Co llegiate At hletic
Association.
Game 1
In an extra-innin g battle, t he
Tritons grinded out a 3–2 win t hrough
a walk-offto take the series opener atff
Triton Ball park.
Throu gh four innin gs, it continued 
at a 0–0 stale mate as both  teams could
not get the ed ge on one another.
However , in t hefifth the Tri tons 
earned their first run to take a 1–0 lead. 
However , it would not last as CSUDH
responded with runs of their own. In
the sixth, the Toros put in two runs as
Esteban Orte ga hit a two-run homerun
to take contro l for the time being.The 
Tritons wou ld earn a run back to level
up the game at 2–2. After a trip le from 
infield freshman Sha y Whitcomb to
start off the inning, inff field redshirt
junior Alex Eliopulos hit a RBI sin gle
up the middle. Eliopulos would end the game wit h the on ly RBI for the
Tritons. 
With no team able to take the lead
late in t he game, extra innin gs wou ld 
determin e the winn er in thisfirst
matchu p. 
With two on base  in the botto m
of the tent h, the Tritons had runners 
in scorin g position an d score d a rare 
walk-off on a passed ball to win theff
game 3–2. 
Game 2
Unlike in game one, t he Tritons
had no pro blem hitting the ball; in 
game two t hey tota led 18 hits. Wit h
their offense ffff firing on a ll cylinders,
UCSD went on to gather up a 14–3
win.
Despite going down 1–0 in the
first innin g, UCSD wou ld get on
top as W hitcom b got on base wit h a
single and Eliopulos followed with 
a two-run home run to take a 2–1 
lead. From t hat point on, t he Tritons 
dominate d as they score d a tota l of 12
runs in t he next t hree innin gs to ta ke a
commandin g lead. 
Whitcomb had a great da y at bat as
the shortsto pfinished  three for three
including two RBIs, w hile Eliopu los
bettere d his teammate wit h a four-for-four da y with four RBIs offof twoff
homers.
Junior pitcher Preston Mott had 
himse lf a game as we ll as he wen t five fifi
innings on ly allowing one earne d run
and striking out nine. Wit h the win 
Mott improves to 2–0 earl y on in the
season.  
Game 3
As the series move d to CSUDH
for thefinal two games o f the series, 
the Tritons sti ll manage d t o  s e c u r e  a  
win as t hey won t hefirst game o f the 
doubleheader Satur day 10–7.
The Tritons got off to an early leadff
on the road. Eliopulos got the team on
the scoreboa rd as the third base man
hit another two-run homer to take a
2–0 lead in thefirst. Re dshirt junior
outfielder Zan der C larke re plicate d 
the at bat wit h a home run o f his own 
to ma ke it 3–0. 
UCS D looked on course for
another blowout win , but unlike the
previous game, CSUDH responded 
well to going down earl y. In the bottom 
of thefirst, t he Toros mana ged to earn 
one run an d cut t he deficit to 3–1. 
After a coup le of score less innin gs
from t he Tritons , the Toros too k 
advanta ge in the third of some errors and end up ta king t he lead wit h 
three runs, 4–3. Resi lient once again,
the Tritons got themse lves back in
the game wit h a run in t he fourth,
followed b y four runs in the fi fth to 
take an 8–4 lead. 
Eliopulos, in t hefifth, hit his
secon d homer o f the game, ma king a
league- best six home runs.
The Toros attem pted a come back 
with three runs in the seventh, but 
could not pus h for an y more runs
in the last two innin gs to ma ke for
an interestin g finish. With one run
in both the sevent h and eighth the 
Tritons had done enou gh to ta ke a
third win in t he series .
Game 4
In the seriesfinale, UCSD cou ld
not ac hieve a sweep o f the Toros as 
the host finally found a wa y to earn a
victor y over the course of the weekend.
This time around, CSUDH com pleted
a comeback  for a walk-off 5–4 win. ff
Simi lar to t he series o pener, t he 
final game cou ld have gone eit her wa y 
as it was a ti ght game t hroughout.
In the second, the Tritons got on
the board first after a two-run home
run from re dshirt sop homore uti lity 
Steven Sc huknecht to ta ke a 2–0 t hatdid not last the innin g as the Toros
found themselves leadin g at the end of 
the innin g. Three runs in the botto m 
of the second for the hosts gave them
a 3–2 lead.  
Redshirt freshman i nfielder B lake 
Baumgartner sing led in t he secon d
leading up to t he homer an d then in 
thefifth singled once a gain, but this 
time helped to get a runner in. UCSD
went on to put another runner in for a
narrow 4–3 lead going into the latter 
innings.
The game wou ld be won in t he last
two innings o f the game as t he Toros 
earned a run in the seventh to level the 
game at 4–4 and then loaded the bases
in the ei ghth. A walk- off single would ff
earn CSU DH its first win of the series , 
avoidin g the sweep. 
Next u p for the Tritons will take on 
California State Po lytechnic Universit y 
Pomona in a sp lit venue series startin g 
at Triton Ballpark before movin g to 
Pomona for the final two games o f 
the series.The first pitch on Thursda y,
March 1 is set for 6 p.m. CONTACT THE EDITO R
	
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
     f
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAME SW B asket ball
M Basketball
M Tennis
Baseball
W Tennis2/27
2/27
3/1
3/1
3/25:30  PM
7:30 PM
9 AM
6 PM
2 PMvs. Sonoma State (1st Round )
vs. Sonoma State (1st Roun d)
vs. Villanova
vs. Ca l Poly Pomon a
vs. Villanova
 & #
! 	 
PHOTO BY KYOKA MATSUNAGA // UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY ANDY WILHELM // UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS&! ##$
#UC San Dieg o 
Finishes 21–1
No. 1 Tritons continue their dominance over the
CCAA and look to carr y the momentum into the 
post-season .
 
"  (   & #
women’s basketball team. Tanita , 
Sampton, and senior guard Pai ge
Song were prou dly reco gnize d prior 
to the 75–71 win over California 
State Universit y, Los An geles.
The Tritons lingered behind the
Golden Ea gles throu gh both the first
and secon d quarters. The score was 
tied seven times an d possession o f 
the lead altered ei ght times before 
halftime. Be hind by one point after 
20 minutes of pla y, UCSD would
look to discuss t he adjustments
needed  in the locke r room.
And the team did just that! Head 
coach  Heidi VanDerveer found a 
way t o  m a k e  s o m e t h i n g click as
UCSD wou ld outscore CSULA inthe third quarter, 19–8. Brin ging the
overa ll score to 53–43 , the Tritons 
were now in the driver’s seat to close
out t he com petitive matc hup.
Again Williams and Sampton
both had success ful nights, listin g
26 an d 14 points, respective ly.
Sam pton accumu lated her 14t h
double-double of the season , wit h
an additional 10 rebou nds.
Tanita tabbed 10 points, seven
of which came from free t hrows , six 
assists, and three rebounds. Junior
forwar d Shandiin Armao followed
closely behind wit h nine points o f 
her own an d eight rebounds.
A bump y fourt h quarter create d
some anxiet y in the arena amon g all 478 in attendance. Careless mistakes 
and mu ltiple deep three-point
prayers that surprisin gly dropped in
for the Go lden Ea gles kept t he score
closer t han necessar y.
Nonetheless, UCSD hun g on to 
close it out, increasin g its CCAA
record to 21–1 and overall record
of 25–3.The CCAA Tournament
begins t his wee k as the No. 1 Tritons
face No. 8 Sonoma State Universit y 
in the quarte rfinal in RIMAC Arena 
at 5: 30 p.m.
UCSD Improves to 
5–3 With Win Over Dominguez Hills
Next up, UC San Diego will play Cal Poly 
Pomona on Thursday, March 1 at 6 p.m.
by Daniel Hernandez  //  Senior Staff Writer