U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos 
proposed changes to Title IX Regulations on Friday, Nov. 16, which would narrow the 
definition of sexual harassment and change protocol for hearings. Title IX is a federal civil rights law passed in 1972, which standardizes the treatment of sex discrimination in educational systems that receive 
federal financial assistance. 
Under the guidelines laid out in 2011, sexual 
harassment was defined as “unwelcome conduct of 
a sexual nature. ” These guidelines were criticized as being too broad and were consequently rescinded by 
the current administration last September . The new 
categories would narrow the definition.
The new rule creates three categories under 
which sexual harassment can be defined. The first is “unwelcome conduct on the basis of sex that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access to the school’s 
education program or activity. ” The other two are and 
sexual assault and “quid pro quo” harassment, such as cases of school employees soliciting sexual favors in exchange for extra credit.
At the UC Board of Regents meeting on Nov. 
14, the Public Engagement and Development Committee’s presentation on Federal Governmental Relations highlighted its anticipation for the Title IX updates. According to Chris Harrington, Associate 
Vice President for Federal Governmental Relations 
at the UC Office of the President, UC representatives had met with officials at the Office of Management and Budget to review the drafted updates two weeks prior.
One of the new changes to Title IX rules laid out by 
DeVos and the Department of Education would allow the accused party to cross-examine its accuser by a representative during hearings.
The same day as the Department of Education’s 
announcement, UC Interim Systemwide Title IX Coordinator Suzanne Taylor sent out a statement in response.
“The proposed hearings would allow 
representatives of alleged assailants to directly cross-examine complainants, which is wholly unnecessary and inherently intimidating, especially to students making the already difficult decision to come 
forward, ” Taylor said. “[The Education Department] 
proposes these rules under the guise of protecting respondents, yet [the UC system’s] procedures (and those of many other universities) already ensure due process, including the respondent’s right to question 
complainants and witnesses in a manner that does not 
cause further trauma. ”
Taylor also argued that the new guidelines narrow 
the scope of what is defined as sexual assault and for that reason could have a potentially negative impact on other civil rights issues. 
“The proposed rules significantly weaken OCR 
(Office of Civil Rights) authority to enforce Title IX … Applying these standards to other areas of OCR’s jurisdiction, if that is [the Education Department’s] intent, will also undermine important civil rights laws that protect students from racial- and disability-based 
discrimination, ” Taylor said.
Taylor assured the UC community that the 
university will continue to protect students’ rights and 
equity on their campuses.
“The rights of the most vulnerable among us are 
under attack, and it is important that we continue to counter ill-advised attempts to erode important Title IX protections for all members of the community, ” Taylor said. 
The proposed changes to the rule are open to public 
comment for 60 days; after that, the Department will assess whether to finalize them or not.
Hillel of San Diego’s path to build 
a long-planned center for Jewish life 
adjacent to UC San Diego appears 
to be clear after a lawsuit filed by the 
Taxpayers for Responsible Land Use was thrown out. San Diego Superior 
Court Judge Timothy Taylor ruled in 
favor of the San Diego City Council’s approval of Hillel’s project, known as the Beverly and Joseph Glickman Hillel Center for Jewish Life. which 
would serve as a place where Jewish 
students along with the publicand cultivate community 
Last October, the City of San 
Diego approved Hillel’s long-planned project to begin construction of a 
center for Jewish community on a 
vacant triangular lot located across the street from the southwest corner of Roger Revelle College. The plan for this center includes three buildings 
totalling 6,500 square feet, which 
will surround a central courtyard. TRLU, an organization comprised of 
one listed member, claimed that the 
approval for this project infringed upon residential zoning laws within 
the La Jolla community despite the 
City’s unanimous approval.VOLUME 52, ISSUE 8  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 19, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Twice As Many 
Ballots Cast at UCSD Compared to 2014
Fewer than 50 percent of all voters 
registered to the UCSD campus 
actually voted in this year’s midterms.
COMMUNITY
BY rebecca camcho, andrew ha
senior staff Writer, contributing wrter
Hillel Center Moves Forward With Development After Lawsuit Victory
Leland performs at Hullabaloo 2018, held on Founders’ Day, in Matthews Quad.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Mckenna JohnsonUC San Diego saw an immense 
growth in voter turnout during 
the 2018 U.S. midterm elections. 
On Nov 6, many people in UCSD’s eight voting precincts went to the 
polls to choose their next governor, 
a U.S. senator, vote in five U.S. congressional districts, and many 
other local and state legislature 
seats. The electorate also got to vote on various propositions.
The preliminary data presented 
comes from the San Diego Registrar of Voters, but they are still counting 
more ballots and will not be finished 
until Dec. 6, 2018. The UCSD Guardian, in consideration to the 
eight UCSD precincts, compiled the 
total number of registered voters and compared it to the total number 
of people who actually voted in the 
2018 and 2014 elections.
The overall voter turnout rate 
for UCSD was 40.86 percent. Of the total 4,731 registered voters in the eight precincts on the UCSD campus, 1,933 voted during this 
midterm election. 
Compared to the 18.29 percent 
turnout rate from the 2014 midterm election, voting turnout for UCSD’s 
precincts substantially increased during the 2018 elections. In fact, 
there was a 123.4-percent increase 
in voter turnout since the 2014 U.S. midterm election. The net number 
of people who voted during the 2014 
election was 814 people compared to 1,933 voters this year.
The grassroots initiatives on 
campus leading up to voters casting their ballots also garnered significant 
attention in bringing young voters 
to the polls. The campaign by non-partisan Student Organized Voter 
Access Committee — organized by 
the UCSD undergraduate student government’s Office of External 
Affairs of the Associated Students — 
in conjunction with UCSD student activism prevailed in registering 
college students this election cycle. 
The “Get Out the Vote” campaign 
of UCSD’s students activist organization, California Public 
Interest Research Group and that of its members to promote voter 
participation among the student 
population signaled such unified mobilization to this cause. 
In an interview with the 
Guardian, the CALPIRG Statewide Outreach Coordinator and Sixth 
College student Sophie Haddad By Tyler FAURot   news EditorUC SYSTEM
Top UC Official Responds to Proposed Federal Title IX ChangesPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
UC San Diego’s 
synthetic biology 
student org earned 
the title of best team 
in North America 
at this year’s iGEM 
competition.
MET AL  AND  GLASS
WILDFIRESPROMOTING  SUSTAINABILITY
LIVING  ON  THE  EDGE  OF  FIREOpinion,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,   Page 11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “Offering metal to-go 
containers would be 
a step in the right 
direction for all of 
campus because they 
are a truly sustainable 
solution and would 
help normalize 
bringing your own 
to-go containers. ”MONDAY
 H 74 L 56
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 57
TUESDAY
H 71 L 53
THURSDAY
H 67 L 52
ELECTIONS...................4
GRINDELWALD............10
GIVING BACK...............11
BEFORE I GO...............12
MINOR BASEBALL......152018 ELECTION
Geena Roberts
 PAGE 4A one-person organization brought suit against Hillel over the project, citing concerns of “community character” .
BY stephanie begle
contributing writer
See HILLEL,  page 3 See VOTING,  page 3UC SAN DEIGO’S 
SYNBIO TEAM
Features, page 6
tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
FOLDING CRANES By Michi Sora
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Pancaking is a fake concept.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Sunday, November 11
12:21 a.m. Public IntoxicationIntoxicated male laying on sidewalk Transported To Detox2:55 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Adult male heavily intoxicated, semi ‐conscious 
and breathing 
Transported To Hospital10:40 a.m. Lost PropertyReport of lost passport Service Provided6:42 p.m. InformationOne hour prior, male left hospital before he was discharged with IV in his arm 
Information Only
7:09 p.m. Marijuana ContactFour subjects smoking marijuana Gone On Arrival9:23 p.m. Attempted Petty Theft - BicycleReporting party observed male suspect cutting U-lock off of a bicycle, suspect ran off when confronted by RP Report Taken
9:35 p.m. Petty Theft
Unattended wallet stolen from table, loss $100 Online Report10:25 p.m. Suspicious PersonReporting parties caught known non-affiliate male leering at them through the open window of their apartment Stay Away Order Issued
Monday, November 12
3:23 p.m. Information OnlyRecently-fired employee made suicidal threats to his boss, subject resides off-campus Referred To Other Agency ‐ San Diego Police 
Department4:57 p.m. Lost PropertyReport of lost foreign passport Information Only
5:40 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Loss $370 Report Taken9:31 p.m. Suspicious PersonNon-affiliate adult male contacted, after a report of a suspicious male looking into office and trying office door handles Stay Away Order Issued
10:16 p.m. Information
San Diego Police Department received report of a bright light blinking, possibly someone trying to send an S.O.S signal, SDPD was advised that signal is part of new art piece in Revelle CollegeInformation Only11:06 p.m. Medical AidYoung female adult possibly having an asthma attack, experiencing chest pains and having 
trouble breathing 
Transported To Hospital
Tuesday, November 13
2:32 p.m. DisturbanceMale subject screaming in Police Department lobby Checks OK10:15 p.m. Warrant Arrest
Outside Agency Warrant 
Misdemeanor10:40 p.m. Medical Aid19-year-old female having hot and cold flashes and feeling like she is going to faintTransported to Hospital
Wednesday, Nove mbe r 14
6:25 a.m. Suspicion Person
Adult male trying to get into a building without an ID Unable to Locate7:34 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Original call for welfare check of young adult male sitting on bench, rocking back and forth, male did not respond to reporting party when asked if he was OK Transported To Hospital
8:18 a.m. Person Down
Adult male sleeping in vehicle with expired tags 
and a suspended license Vehicle Impounded9:41 a.m. Medical Aid  
Young adult male fainted 
Transported To Hospital
4:11 p.m. Domestic Violence Incident
Non-affiliate couple seen pushing each other before boarding a city bus Stay Away Order Issued (x2)
7:30 p.m. Suspicious Person
Unknown male hiding under stairwell for 30 minutes Checks OK9:13 p.m. Suspicious Person
Subject was making offensive sexual comments 
while friend filmed people’s reactions Checks OK10:18 p.m. Fire
Metal container on fire at very end of dirt 
parking lot, adult male cited for unlawful fire Citation Issued
Thursday, November 15
1:00 a.m. Burglary
Unknown suspect(s) entered victim’s apartment and stole several items, loss $2100 Report Taken
3:19 a.m. Unknown Trouble
Intoxicated female contacted after report of female yelling for help in area of baseball field, subject released to sober friendService Provided
10:51 p.m. Unknown Trouble
Reporting party was on the phone with friend in Berkeley, CA, friend started screaming and reporting party is now unable to reach her 
Referred to Other Agency ‐ Berkeley Police 
Department
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduHa ve  a  great 
thanksgiving  weekend!explained how the results of this 
election’s voter turnout came 
as a result of a comprehensive 
incorporation of calls to action. 
Haddad explained how 
legislation such as the “National Voter Registration Act of 1993,” or “Motor Voter Act, ” and the 
“California Students Vote Project” 
and “Ballot Bowl” competition 
created by the California Secretary 
of State in partner  ship with the 
California Lieutenant Governor, provided a platform for more innovative approaches to increasing 
voter registration.  
“This election cycle really shows 
us the need for young voters to make their voices heard and elect 
individuals who will give proper agency to their concerns, ” Haddad 
said. “It is so important that we use 
this momentum to excite college students to register and vote. ” 
With actions including tabling 
on Library Walk, text reminders, and classroom announcements CALPIRG’s “Get Out the Vote” 
campaign obtained 500,000 contacts 
and registered 6,000 students statewide.   
The overall rise in the UCSD 
voter turnout rate and net totals was, in great part, a referendum to 
President Donald Trump in his past 
two years in office, as discussed 
in a New York Times article. 
Moreover, greater media coverage 
of the midterm elections may have 
galvanized more people to get to the polls.
rebecca camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.edu
Andrew Ha  ah1a@ucsd.edu“TRLU’ s lawsuit was a baseless 
attempt to further delay the Hillel 
project, ” Executive Director of 
Hillel and Rabbi David Singer said. “TRLU has argued without proof 
and contrary to the opinion of every 
expert and city leader that the center would have a negative impact on 
the neighborhood. ” According to its 
website, TRLU opposes this project 
because of the “potential impacts to 
aesthetics, community character, land 
use, traffic, parking, and growth. ” 
In response to TRLU’s efforts to 
move the center elsewhere, Taylor said, “We don’t do that in the United 
States. That is evocative of Eastern Europe and not appropriate. ”
Funding for the Hillel center is 
based solely on the contributions made by members and alumni of 
the non-profit organization, along 
with friends in the surrounding community. Hillel has a campaign 
goal of $15 million. So far, it has 
raised $12.5 million with a $5 million contribution by Joseph Glickman (a neighbor of Hillel, community 
leader, and philanthropist) before 
he passed away this May. Glickman, who was dearly referred to as 
“Chickie, ” believed that creating 
this center would build community, inspire leadership, and develop 
relationships among the hundreds 
of participants in Hillel programs. 
Singer said this facility will make a 
positive impact on the surrounding 
community by turning an empty lot 
into a picturesque landscape between the busy La Jolla streets while also 
providing a public park-like area with 
pedestrian access.  
“We are especially delighted that 
our project will serve as a welcoming beacon of inclusivity at the entrance to La Jolla, a neighborhood that once 
forbade Jewish ownership, ” President 
of the Board of Directors of Hillel of San Diego Joel Smith said.
La Jolla has a history of 
widespread restrictive housing policies toward Jewish people since the 1960s. The Real Estate Brokers’ 
Association played a large role in 
making sure Jewish people were not able to purchase homes in La Jolla 
and also made it difficult for them 
to have success with other real estate agencies in the area. 
The architect of the Hillel 
community center is actively 
proceeding with the design drawings 
and is working to get construction 
“shovel ready” as quickly as possible. 
At this time, it is unclear when the center will be finished and open to 
students and the public. 
To commemorate the start of 
Hanukkah, Hillel will be hosting an event on the property on Sunday, 
Dec. 2 at 11 a.m. It will also serve as a celebration of its legal victory, as 
well as kick off its public fundraising 
campaign. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Many State and Local Initiatives T argeted Turnout The Architect Behind the Hillel Center Hopes to Begin Construction Shortly
▶ VOTING , from page 1 ▶ HILLEL , from page 1
stephanie begle  sbegle@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINION
In 2012, the University of California committed its campuses (minus 
the medical facilities) to achieving zero waste, defined as 90-percent 
diversion from landfills, by 2020. UC San Diego, though, still has 
a long way to go before it can reach this zero-waste goal. As anyone 
living on campus knows, this year, Housing Dining Hospitality enacted 
a few big changes to combat its role in UCSD’s trash creation. Central to 
these initiatives, it has become harder to get to-go containers and plastic silverware in campus dining halls. Manager of HDH Sustainability Colin 
Moynihan reports that the initiative reduced use of 
single-use recyclables by up to 50 percent for 
food containers. These efforts, coupled with 
the to-go containers being fully recyclable, will definitely help campus to reach its 
90-percent diversion by 2020.
Yet, this HDH 
initiative and other 
eco-friendly policies 
on campus may 
be smaller leaps 
in the right 
direction than 
they seem. 
Simply put, the HDH initiative continues to add to the problem of single-use items despite their recyclability and more limited availability. It also does not 
directly address other vendors on campus, who should be held equally 
responsible for taking tangible action against UCSD’s trash creation. We can do better.
Thus, while it’s certainly cheaper for HDH to move toward recyclables 
and have campus vendors do their own thing and transition to solutions that sound nice, the campus needs to move in a different direction. To 
create a more sustainable campus, instead of single-use recyclables 
and unused biodegradables, UCSD should introduce reusable metal or glass to-go containers for use in HDH locations and Price Center. This 
initiative would enable UCSD to achieve its 90-percent diversion and 
create a more convenient and optimal environmental impact.
Data from UCSD’s campus sustainability manager demonstrated that 
UCSD only diverted about 34 percent of its trash this year. Unfortunately, one of the easier and cheaper ways to achieve 90-percent diversion from landfills in San Diego lies in single-use recyclables, like the dining hall 
to-go containers. Still, these recyclables can only be recycled a limited 
number of times before they end up in landfills for good; National Geographic reports that plastics can only be recycled “2 to 3 times,” and 
that for each time repurposed, “virgin materials” are added for strength. 
By using recyclables, UCSD would, by its definition, reduce the amount of waste leaving campus, moving toward the 2020 goal. However, each 
Under the federalist system we know and love, many responsibilities are divided up among federal, 
state, and local governments. This has allowed 
many programs and statutes to be streamlined for citizens. 
Broader programs like Social Security are given to the 
federal government to standardize the retirement process 
for all citizens while more nuanced legislation, such as the regulation of the sale of drugs and alcohol, is left to the states, 
allowing for more citizen input. However, America’s electoral 
system perpetuates many variables in conflict with our ideal of democracy. 
Currently, federal elections are held on one Tuesday every 
two years at the national level. Even so, this practice seems to be one of the few electoral continuities across state and 
local entities throughout the country. The enfranchisement of 
voters, the way polling locations are run, and the requirements for ballot representation are, for the most part, at the will of the party in control of the state legislature.
These issues have manifested themselves throughout the 
2018 midterm election process. In the weeks leading up to the election, a law supported by Georgia Secretary of State Brian 
Kemp, who happened to be running for governor of that state, 
withheld over 53,000 voter registration applications from being processed, a majority of which belonged to black voters. 
In areas like Florida where the counts for governor and senator 
were too close to call, cries for every vote to be counted were denounced by President Donald Trump. He falsely claimed 
that “the Florida Election should be called in favor of Rick 
Scott and Ron DeSantis in that large numbers of new ballots 
showed up out of nowhere, and many ballots are missing or 
forged. An honest vote count is no longer possible — ballots massively infected.” A similar issue even occurred at UC 
San Diego, where on-campus precincts ran out of English-
language paper ballots as the polling hours drew to a close.Furthermore, even though the election is long over, there 
are still votes being counted. As of Nov. 14, eight House races, 
two Senate races, and two gubernatorial races have yet to be 
called. While the Senate race in Mississippi is delayed due to a runoff rule, the long counting times of the other states  can 
be attributed to the varying state legislation determining how 
votes are counted. While some states have stricter measures in place to ensure that all votes are received and counted by 
Election Day, others have looser policies, which leads to votes 
continuing to trickle in weeks after the official election occurs.
The fear of an outside group interfering in the electoral 
process, as was seen in the 2016 presidential election, further 
complicates the discussion on how to fully extend voter 
enfranchisement and ease as many citizens into the process as possible. However, one need not look further than West 
Virginia and Oregon to find a possible solution.
In West Virginia, new voting machines were implemented in 
2018 to try to prevent hacking and  speed up the vote-counting process. Although these machines are digital, they print out a 
paper ballot for every voter, and the vote count is connected through a closed-circuit system, meaning that the whole voting system is not connected to the internet. These measures have greatly decreased the risk of outside manipulation while also 
streamlining the vote-counting process.
Likewise, in Oregon, vote-by-mail was implemented to 
ensure that every registered voter would not have an excuse to opt out of this year’s elections; voters only need to have their 
ballot received by 8 p.m. on Election Day, which can include turning in the physical ballot at a polling location. This method 
has lead to an increase in voter turnout in comparison to the 
rest of the country.
In order for the United States to fully enfranchise its 
citizens, speed up the ballot counting process, and facilitate a higher level of democracy, the country must create a system that ensures everyone has equal access to the ballot. This can 
be done through several steps. First, the federal government 
ought to register everyone to vote at birth. Since every U.S. citizen has a Social Security number assigned at birth, this will ensure that no one is prevented from registering due to 
niche local laws. Next, all states should implement universal 
vote-by-mail. This program would ensure that everyone can receive a ballot with plenty of time ahead of the election to 
fully do their research and come to conclusions on who to 
vote for. Also, the national government must make Election Day a federal holiday. It is absurd that Election Day is held 
on a workday. Many people, especially those with a lower 
socioeconomic status, do not have the ability to take time off to vote or may be pressured by their employers not to 
do so. Making elections a federal holiday would remove an 
economic barrier to voting for low-income voters. Finally, 
elections should use closed internet machines that also leave a 
paper trail. This will greatly minimize the chance for election fraud and external interference.By: Geena Roberts // Contributing WriterSustainability Goes Beyond Straws 
jacob  sutherland   jasuther@ucsd.eduWhy the United States Needs to Federalize Elections
By: Jacob Sutherland // Senior Sta ff WriterSee SUSTAINABILITY , page 5
The UC system has committed to reducing the amount of waste it sends to landfills 
each year. Programs aimed at transitioning to recyclable materials are a good leap 
forward, but UC San Diego will have to consider other techniques if it to ever come 
close to its goal of 90-percent diversion of waste.  
“In order for the United States to 
fully enfranchise its citizens, speed 
up the ballot counting process, 
and facilitate a higher level of 
democracy, the country must create 
a system that ensures everyone has 
equal access to the ballot.”OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
of these items would soon land in a landfill, meaning we 
would be taking a less sustainable option for the planet 
in the long term.
For most people, the obvious alternative to 
recyclables is biodegradables. In fact, UCSD is currently transitioning vendors in Price Center to biodegradable 
containers upon the start of their new contracts in an effort to become more eco-friendly. Unknown to most, 
however, these biodegradables are not the blessing 
they appear. For one, many biodegradables require 
perfect conditions to actually biodegrade: 130 degrees 
from an industrial composter and often must be made 
from a high-quality bioplastic to be taken in by these 
composters. According to Moynihan, “Compostable ware typically requires added processing before it can 
be composted, which is not currently available to use 
[around the San Diego area].” The kicker is that even if composting was more accessible locally, students have 
historically mixed up recyclables and compostables, 
harming both causes.
Other types of biodegradables are also not without 
fault; they can take decades to decay, harming wildlife and the ozone layer in the process. What’s clear is that biodegradable packages will not save the environment 
and will not help campus reach 90-percent diversion, if 
they just end up in landfills.
Offering metal to-go containers would be a step in the 
right direction for all of campus because they are a truly sustainable solution and would help normalize bringing your own to-go containers. Currently, Moynihan is 
piloting a project that will roll out Winter Quarter of 
2019 that will offer “reusable to-go containers in [their] John Muir College facilities [where] residents can opt 
to have their food served in a reusable to-go box and 
exchange their container for a new one on their next visit, at no cost to them.”
While the exact details of this program are unknown, 
for these to-go containers to have the largest impact, they will ideally be made of metal or glass and be 
available soon in several locations, including campus 
vendors, for use by students, faculty, and campus employees. Needless to say, the more widespread this program is, the less recyclable to-go containers and useless biodegradable containers would be used on 
campus. For this ideal scenario to come into fruition, the 
financial burden may fall solely on HDH, but it would not necessarily have to.
Incorporating the use of these containers, on-
campus vendors via their contracts (as was done with biodegradables) would help to shoulder the financial 
burden of these containers. In fact, chain pop-ups in 
Price Center, like Panda Express, may prefer to use 
reusable containers instead of having to order different 
types of to-go ware for UCSD and their other locations 
or to switch the company completely to biodegradables. 
They, as well as HDH, would also have no need to buy regular to-go containers again and therefore eliminate 
that expense with this program.
Additionally, less trash creation means that UCSD 
would spend less money on waste collection. As reported by Facilities Management, last year, UCSD spent almost 
a million dollars on campus waste removal. Therefore cutting the use of to-go containers in a majority, or all, 
of campus eateries would save the university money that 
could instead be used to fund this project. 
While it’s unlikely these containers will be made of 
metal or glass due to their steeper cost, these materials offer the most environmentally conscious option. For example, glass and metal containers have more longevity 
than single-use recyclables and weak biodegradable 
products. Most importantly, when they wear out, they can be recycled completely and indefinitely without 
the need of additional virgin materials to support them. 
Meanwhile, stronger more durable biodegradables take longer and more intense conditions to break down due 
to additives. Thus, metal or glass containers would do 
good on campus and beyond.
Clearly, UCSD can expect many more positive 
changes in the future as it attempts to continue to revolutionize its waste policies. Still, as students, let us not be afraid to demand better. ▶ SUSTAINABILITY ,  from page 4
SYSTEM32  
By Anonymous
geena roberts  g1robert@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 FEATURESfeatures@ucsdguardian.org
 
Not many people can say that they’re the second-best in the 
world at something. The members of UC San Diego’s SynBio team, however, can do just that. This organization was founded 
only four years ago, yet it managed to climb to the near-top of the world standings at the annual International Genetically Engineered Machine competition in Boston, an international, research-based competition which centers on using synthetic biology to solve relevant medical and 
biological global issues. UCSD’s team took second place for its overall 
project and won a multitude of other sub-category prizes, beating out powerhouse favorites Imperial College London and Heidelberg University in Germany, as well as 300 other teams who competed at iGEM. The UCSD team’s achievement is nothing short of remarkable.
SynBio is an on-campus 
organization dedicated to teaching students the 
importance of synthetic 
biology. It aims to bridge the gap between the acclaimed engineering and biology programs at UCSD and 
encourages collaboration 
between the two. Earl Warren College junior and bioengineering major Varun 
Govil joined the organization during Winter Quarter of his freshman 
year in the hopes of shepherding a vision for the group. He came up with the ideas for both this year’s project and last year’s competition. He reads countless amounts of academic literature, hoping to get inspired and find an area that his team can supplement with its research. 
“The project we did last year was a really cool concept, but it didn’t 
spark an interest for the judges. This year, we wanted to focus something in the cancer diagnostics field, ” Govil said. “We looked at the large body of research at UCSD, and we came across a paper that had been talking about using different markers, a completely different approach on how to diagnose cancer compared to the many pitfalls you see in the current method. We thought we could build off that, so we started looking at research from years prior and coming up with an outline of what we 
needed done. ”
Govil recruited members for his team by conducting multiple 
interviews and dividing the chosen students into the three main categories 
that the project would cover: the dry lab (coding and other computer data 
work), the wet lab (the work in the lab with cells, DNA, and proteins), 
and the public-engagement component. He found seven members for his technical team.
“Part of the job is not just doing the work, but communicating 
effectively. Scientists are notoriously bad communicators, so to address 
that, we brought in a four-person design team: a graphic designer, a web design engineer, a person 
for poster design, and a person to 
design the documents we were going to deliver at the competition, ” Govil said. “The beauty of this project is that it’s not just a technical research 
competition: There’s product design; 
there’s entrepreneurship; there’s public engagement. We need people who are passionate about these, too, 
and I learned that freshman year. ”
Roger Revelle College fifth-year chemistry major Anser Abbas, saw a 
slide advertising SynBio in one of his biochemistry lectures and decided to apply. He was brought into the team to do wet-lab work and to write policy. The idea of implementing the group’s research into the real world 
was particularly interested Abbas. “ At iGEM, you present the research 
you’ve done and a plan to implement it in the real world. That was UC San Diego’s 
synthetic biology student org earned the title of best team in North America at this year’s iGEM competition.
By Charlotte Armstrong // Senior Sta ff 
WriterUCSD's  SynBio  Team  Wins 
Second-Best  in  the  World
PHOTO COURTESY BY UCSD SYNBIO
SeeSYNBIO , page 7
“When I saw the results, I felt awful, because 
I felt I had let everyone down. On the plane 
back from Boston, I was drafting my letter of resignation. But then I thought, ‘You know what? You can probably do this; you just need a sexier idea, if you will. And you need a 
larger team, ’” Govil said.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
charlotte  armstrong    c1armstr@ucsd.eduinteresting to me; it’s sort of a unique opportunity, ” Abbas said. “Our 
research labs are focused on science, and this was an opportunity to learn about things I hadn’t had a lot of exposure to. I got a sense of 
the other aspects that I didn’t have experience with before, such as the 
law behind scientific policy or international rules about genetically 
modified organisms. ”
SynBio’s project this year was to establish a noninvasive diagnostic 
technology that could detect cancer. Tissue biopsy, the common method 
of diagnosing cancer, or “the method we were all taught in grade school” (as Govil puts it), involves extracting DNA from the patient and comparing it to a healthy DNA pattern to determine whether or not the patient has cancer. However, this procedure is not only invasive for the 
patient, but it can also be relatively inaccurate
SynBio’s research and planned alternative procedure involve liquid 
biopsy, or a simple drawing of blood, which is a far less intrusive 
method of evaluating DNA patterns. The team decided to look at 
alterations in the patient’s genetic code once the blood had been drawn. 
The members of the team analyzed endless patient samples that were provided to them by the lab they partnered with, and used machine learning (artificial intelligence) to find patterns in the DNA, which vary depending on the type of cancer. The proteins the team engineered 
bound to regions on patients’ DNA that were hyper-methylated and 
gave off a fluorescent signal. All of this work was done over the summer at UCSD’s School of Medicine. The complex process meant that Govil worked 80 hours a week all throughout the summer.
Last year, Govil acted as team leader, and though the team’s project 
was much-talked about and supported by all of the bioengineering department, a devastating mistake in failing to provide sufficient validation for the DNA sample used cost the team any chance of placing at iGEM. Feeling defeated, Govil was ready to resign upon returning to 
San Diego from Boston.
“When I saw the results, I felt awful, because I felt I had let everyone 
down. On the plane back from Boston, I was drafting my letter of 
resignation. But then I thought, ‘You know what? You can probably 
do this; you just need a sexier idea, if you will. And you need a larger 
team, ’” Govil said. “It’s very easy in the vacuum of the first six months to be like, ‘Oh, we got this!’ But then when you go to the competition, you see these world-class teams who have never not made finals. It’s a whirlwind of emotion. ”
The SynBio team saw a complete turnaround over the course of a 
year. It kept its expectations in check this time, simply hoping its results this year would be a building block for next year’s team.
“You can win an award just in your track, and that was our goal. 
We just wanted to win Best Diagnostic, so it was kind of surprising to find out that out of all of the teams, we placed second, ” Abbas said. “We collected some minor prizes as well: Best Public Engagement, Best Entrepreneurship, Best Poster, Best Diagnostic. Not too shabby. ”
Govil and his team kept an eye on their emails after they had competed 
for the past three days, constantly checking for any notification from judges. None came, which made it all the more of a surprise when the team saw “UC San Diego” listed as a finalist.
“I thought we were maybe in the top 15, but you don’t get something 
for top 15 in this competition. You get top three or nothing, ” Govil said. “We knew we had to prepare. When we went and saw ‘UC San Diego’ under finalists, everyone on our team just started screaming. It was 
absolutely amazing chaos. UC San Diego currently holds the ranking as 
the best North American team, which is pretty wild. ”
“It was an amazing experience. It was really cool to see teams from 
all over the world working in the same growing field, ” Abbas said. “It was stressful, trying to arrange all our figures and get everything correct 
for the presentation. But being in a new city to present the work we’ve 
been working on all summer, it was a really good experience. ”
Govil has far too many favorite memories to count over the course 
of the experience. It’s clear this endeavor has been a passion project 
since day one, and the amount of pride he has in his team members 
and their accomplishments is reflected in his speedy recollections of their moments of victory. The team’s transformation over the past year is what he’s most proud of.
“I took a picture of our 2017 project and our 2018 project, and you 
can tell the difference immediately. The fact is that 12 months ago, we were at the bottom of the pile. Seeing the jump from year one to year two for me personally is amazing: being on the plane home from Boston first year almost in tears, and then second year just being stunned at what’s happening, ” Govil said. “Today is my first day I’m planning to sit 
down and internalize everything. ”
He gives a special shoutout to his team, who were grilled with 
15 complex questions from a seasoned professional judge during the competition. They answered them all. This moment was Abbas’s 
favorite in the entire competition.
“My favorite memory was after we had presented, and after that, 
you stand by your poster and answer questions. The questions that we got, we were prepared for, but it’s still a little different once you get the 
question, ” Abbas said. “By the time we got to the point, we had kind 
of gotten into the rhythm to answer questions and we were starting 
to feel more confident about our project. We realized we actually had 
something worthwhile that people actually liked. ”
While Govil won’t be leading the team next year, he’ll be back as a 
mentor. He wants to build on its current success and restructure the team. Most of all, he wants to see SynBio’s popularity and presence 
grow. The organization has even written a textbook to make synthetic 
biology more accessible for students in grade school.
“We’re hoping that what we’ve done kind of gives them a leg up. A 
lot of the work we did over the summer was organizational stuff, and 
while we got a lot done, we could have done a lot more, ” Abbas said. 
“Hopefully we’re able to pass down the structure of how we arranged our work. They can adopt that and then spend their energy doing more creative scientific things. ”
Both Govil and Abbas believe that being a part of SynBio has 
affected their goals for the future. Govil originally thought he would go into the biotechnology industry and spend his days at a lab bench. Now, he’s realized he wants to be more involved in the big picture by pulling the strings. 
“The iGEM competition was a really good way to experiment with 
that. It helped me realize there were other fields in biology I wanted to explore. Having won this has taught us the power of never giving up. It took only 12 months to turn around from the bottom all the way to the top of the world, ” Govil said. “It also has given me the confidence 
to take on more ambitious technical projects in the future, as I develop 
more stuff in medical device and product innovation. ”
“The work gave me a look into regulatory law; it definitely sparked 
an interest in things like that. It hasn’t made a huge change, but it 
strengthened some areas that I was uninformed about, ” Abbas said. “I 
feel like a more complete scientist. I’ d like to go into clinical research, and this gave me a big insight into how clinical research works. I feel more confident now. ”
Perhaps most importantly of all, SynBio at UCSD has contributed to 
a field that needs as much help as it can get, given the current political climate. The Trump administration has announced its plan to redirect finances used for cancer research into immigration detention. This includes taking away millions of dollars from the National Cancer 
Institute. Govil points out that scientists get stuck in their “little 
vacuums” all too often, and it’s important to think politically and economically when conducting research.
“What the Trump administration is doing is hurting our youth’s 
future. In terms of the technical and scientific knowledge, there are going to be huge ramifications. We’re really fortunate to be living in California, where the UCs are really supportive of research. We don’t feel that pressure in decreased cost, ” Govil said. “Implementing synthetic 
biology in low-resource communities would be very important. I think 
that the way that scientists think these days is that they realize they have to factor in financial costs. ”
Abbas also thinks that the lack of reliable and affordable healthcare 
in the United States should be a matter of utmost concern for scientists and researchers everywhere.
“I think a big aspect of our project was to come up with a diagnostic 
tool that was low-cost. So we did a lot of research into how underserved communities that don’t have good health care structures in place 
would be able to use our tools. We have thought about the economic 
ramifications of our research. We’re proud we were able to consider that in our project; we know that it’s an important thing to look at, ” Abbas said. “SynBio is really unique in that way. I haven’t seen another 
organization on campus like this. It’s important not to have blinders 
on, to understand the larger aspects of the work that you do and the connections to other fields. ”
Though Govil believes President Donald Trump and his cabinet 
are sabotaging the future of many citizens by perpetrating scientific 
falsehoods, instead of focusing energy on innovation, he’s hopeful that 
scientists can and will continue to adapt and make advancements for those in need. Govil can see this happening at UCSD.
“It’s unfortunate, but I’m optimistic, especially in the state of 
California and at UC San Diego, ” Govil said. “It’s really empowering 
for me to say that I did something that will stand the test of time. I’ve 
helped further UCSD’s legacy. ”▶ SYNBIO , from page 68                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care locations 
throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. 
Look for our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more 
details about the world-class care happening right in  
your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com .
Open Enrollment for UC San Diego employees ends Tuesday, November 20.A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The annual Camp Flog Gnaw Carnival 
occurred over the weekend of Nov. 10  
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles for 
its seventh annual installment. The event was 
hosted by rapper, fashion developer, TV actor, 
and whatever else you want to call him, “Tyler, the 
Creator. ” Although Camp Flog Gnaw is a music festival, it is designed to be much more than that. 
Camp Flog Gnaw attempts to create an escape 
from the outside world into a music fan’s dream destination. Two stages featured artists such as 
the up-and-coming Hobo Johnson and hip-hop 
staples Kanye West, Kid Cudi, and A$AP Rocky. With carnival games and rides, various camp 
decorations, and unparalleled performances, 
Camp Flog Gnaw is an experience any festival goer should add to their bucket list. 
The atmosphere was beautifully crafted by 
all those involved, with each detail creating a true summer camp vibe, one full of unity and utter happiness. When walking into the venue 
through rows of winding lines, loudspeakers 
broadcasted directions, always referring to event attendees as campers. After getting past 
the security screenings, visitors walked up a 
hill. Upon reaching the peak, they witnessed an overview of the wonders the weekend had to 
hold. The skyline of Downtown LA loomed in 
the distance with an ashy, red tint as a result of 
the fires blazing in the valley a few miles south. 
The jaw-dropping landscape, showcased high-flying rides, two Ferris wheels, swings, and so 
much more scattered throughout. All of these 
structures, from the city skyline to the towering carnival rides, transformed the bland parking 
structures of the Dodger Stadium into the LA County Fair’s little brother.
Despite the music performances beginning at 
about 12:35 p.m., the main attraction seemed to 
be none other than Kanye West’s clothing. No line for any ride was close to rivaling the wait time for 
purchasing merchandise from the hip-hop duo, 
Kanye West and Kid Cudi (otherwise known as Kids See Ghosts, who would be headlining 
Sunday night). From the time the gates opened to 
the time the stadium was cleared, the lines raged on with individuals desperate to get one piece of 
merchandise from hip-hop moguls Kanye West 
and Kid Cudi. Hordes of eager yet frustrated fans waited upward of three hours with hope that the 
clothes would remain available. 
The energy throughout the weekend seemed 
to gravitate toward the headline event of Sunday 
night however, they were not the only artists the 
crowds couldn’t wait to see. 
A few artists showcased powerful sets that the 
crowd couldn’t get enough of. Despite not being the biggest name of the day, Rex Orange County 
completely shined throughout his hour-long set. The crowd’s energy matched his insane vocal 
riffs and well-designed set, featuring a shifting 
sky background to match his always flowerlike aesthetic. As the sun set, his voice somehow softly 
boomed into the crowd in a way that makes as 
little sense as the oxymoron itself. The crowd 
was lovingly involved, echoing each and every 
line, showing just how much traction Rex has picked up in recent months. Playboi Carti’s set 
was an entirely different vibe from that of Rex’s; 
as the sun was well gone and night time loomed, Playboi Carti performed hit songs “Shootah” 
and “Flatbed Freestyle. ” He greatly encouraged the crowd to form mosh pits and match his 
on-stage energy, and they responded accordingly. 
Those who managed to stay through the whole 
set shoved and swayed to the heavy beats and distorted vocals.
As Saturday concluded, rhythm and blues 
singer SZA, whose debut album CTRL brought her support from countless fans, gave the headline 
performance. The crowd favorites seemed to 
be her pieces “Love Galore” and “Normal Girl. ” SZA opened each song with brief background 
statements that perfectly captured the charisma 
and on-stage energy  that has garnered her such a devout following. As the night concluded, 
she delivered a heartwarming and impressive 
set to end the long Saturday. The singer battled many emotions as she sang her hit song “Twenty Something, ” which she dedicated to the late 
hip-hop artist Mac Miller, who passed away in 
September. All around, the crowd was unified. The audience seemed to appreciate the space 
given to reflect on the passing of hip hop’s beloved 
Mac Miller, especially as his image spanned the screens on each side of the stage. 
Sunday featured performances by artists 
such as Billie Eilish, Earl Sweatshirt, Lauryn Hill, and Brockhampton. However, nothing was 
equivalent to the anticipation for Kids See Ghosts.  
Although the duo would be on stage at 10:10 p.m., 
crowds began to gather at 2 p.m. just to ensure a 
decent spot for the performance. Discussions throughout the day centered on what the Kids See 
Ghosts performance would entail. I overheard 
several people pondering if Kanye West would perform in his now signature “Make America 
Great Again” hat. Many were also prepared for a potential Kanye West rant, which we have come 
to expect.
However, the performance as a whole 
contained nothing of the sort. It was clear that the set was about sharing music and nothing else. 
The hip-hop dream team played nearly every 
song off its debut album Kids See Ghosts and also showcased beloved songs such as “Pursuit of 
Happiness” and “Paranoid. ” The crowd’s energy 
was unmatched throughout the entirety of the set as individuals tried to take in as much as they 
could. Just about every individual in the crowd 
found themselves belting the lyrics to each song, creating a truly unified environment. The fact 
that the consistently controversial Kanye West 
accomplished this was something beautiful to see, as his music, not his politics, represent so much for so many.
As the crowd chanted for an encore, the two 
stars walked off-stage, concluding the weekend festival. The highly anticipated performances 
and overall event  had fulfilled the crowd’s 
expectations. The event as a whole was seemingly over as soon as it began; with the constant 
entertainment provided, there was never a second 
to breathe. From the carnival rides and games to performances and connections made, Camp Flog 
Gnaw achieved its purpose as the music festival 
that prides itself on being much more. The 
weekend was beautifully planned and executed. 
Kudos to you, Tyler, the Creator; see you in 2019.
— matthew  rudas
Contributing Writer
EVENT  REVIEW
Camp Flog gnaw
PHOTO COURTESY OF MATTHEW RUDAS
Event Dates   November 10-11, 2018
Venue   Dodger StadiumCA-The much-anticipated release of 
“Origins” drew all eyes once again on Imagine Dragons. With several hits 
under their belt such as “Radioactive, ” “Believer, ” and “Thunder, ” Imagine Dragons enjoys its status as a household name amongst pop-rock lovers. As such, it is no surprise that a few of 
their songs from this album are already widely 
popular, including “Zero, ” which gained fame as part of the soundtrack to the upcoming movie “Ralph Breaks the Internet, ” and “Natural, ” which was chosen as ESPN’s anthem for the 2018 
college football season.
Lead singer Dan Reynolds says that “Origins” 
should be seen as a companion album to the 
group’s previous release, “Evolve. ” While Imagine 
Dragons’ newest album shares the adventurous 
experimentation the band channeled into “Evolve, ” “Origins” unfortunately lags behind its predecessor in overall stylistic cohesiveness, with “Bullet In A Gun” being by far the worst 
offender in the album. Random rap lines frame 
an awkward auto-tuned electronic chorus, and drum-heavy instrumentals make the song seem almost atonal. “Digital” faced similar issues; the chorus contains an exciting drum and bass line, but it sounds painfully edgy when contrasted with its smooth, lyrical verses.
On the other hand, Imagine Dragons’ choice 
to experiment with different sounds produced some great, if not unexpected, works from them. “Zero, ” one of the lead tracks of the album, is a 
peppy tune with the high spirits of a high school 
garage band. In “West Coast, ” Imagine Dragons delves into folk rock, fully capturing the image of a hopeless lover watching the sun set over the rugged Central California coast. Most notable in 
Imagine Dragons’ excursion into new musical 
styles, “Love” is a feel-good song featuring a backup choir. The music builds up with more and more singers until everyone is singing in 
the heartwarming climax. Reynolds shines in 
this song with his expansive range on full display along with his emotive delivery of the lyrics. As such, this song easily contains some of his best studio vocals to date. 
Continuing from where they left off in 
heavily electronic-based “Evolve, ” “Origins” also showcases the band’s foray into electronic pop. Were it not for Reynolds’ raspy rocker voice, “Cool Out” with its heavily synthesized background could easily be confused as electronic dance music along the line of the Chainsmokers. “Bad 
Liar, ” one of the more tender songs on the album, 
has a slow wavering feeling which captures the emotional vulnerability one experiences when they try to hide their pain. A similar effect is used 
in a more empowering way in “Boomerang, ” 
where the singer is letting go of a past lover. In fact, the final bridge in “Boomerang” contains some floaty, synthesized vocals that represent the fleeting nature of lost love.
Despite their shifting style, Imagine Dragons 
still remembers its roots. “Natural” and “Machine” continue with the signature stomp-and-shout headbanger formula from the band’s 
“Radioactive” days. “Stuck” is emblematic of 
Imagine Dragons’ older ballads like “Polaroid. ” The vocals in this song faintly lag behind the beat, which is a clever musical interpretation of the singer being “stuck” on old feelings during a 
breakup.
With such an eclectic mixture of musical 
styles, “Origins” seems to be the band’s attempt 
at sampling different sounds and deciding what does and doesn’t work. As such, individual songs by themselves are decent, yet one can’t help but feel disoriented by the whirlwind of 
different music genres flying by when listening 
to the album all the way through — sometimes even within the span of a single song. Further, Imagine Dragons’ experimentation with 
innovative sounds is a double-edged sword, 
creating emotionally-charged songs like “Love” while also falling completely flat with “Bullet In A Gun. ” Nonetheless, the band attempts to push the rock scene into uncharted territory 
by combining rock with various musical styles 
which, given its notoriety, is quite a noble thing to do.
“Origins” is one of Imagine Dragons’ 
most interesting albums to date. Extremely experimental, this album represents an awkward transition in Imagine Dragons’ musical evolution. Through this album, Imagine Dragons will hopefully decide on what type of 
sound they want to progress toward.
—  steven  zhou
 Contributing Writer
origins
by  imagine dragons
Release Date  November 9, 2018ALBUM   REVIEW
B-Imagine Dragons’ newest album “Origins” contains a diverse set of tracks that highlight the band’ s 
transitory stage into a new style.10    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
“Ralph Breaks the Internet” ventures into a buzzing and unpredictable technological world beyond the accustomed scene of classic arcade games.
Six years after the release of “Wreck-It Ralph, ” 
we are graced with a sequel that once again features the good-bad guy who demolishes 
buildings with his fists, and his spunky, candy-coated friend who glitches during car races. It’s out with the old and in with the new, as “Ralph Breaks the Internet” explores a realm away from 
retro-arcade games and connects to the inner 
workings of the World Wide Web. 
After the steering wheel of the Sugar Rush 
game console breaks, V anellope von Schweetz (Sarah Silverman) is left discouraged and 
homeless with her game permanently out of 
commission. But when she and Wreck-It Ralph (John Reilly) discover that a spare part could be purchased from a nebulous and enigmatic place 
called “the Internet, ” they don’t hesitate to jump to 
the nearest WiFi router and travel into the digital dimension to find it. With full gusto and a pinch of naivete, the dynamic duo traverses through the fictitious behind-the-scenes world. 
“Ralph Breaks the Internet” puts a creative 
spin on the depiction of the internet, allowing audiences that grew up with this digital network to witness it through a fresh set of eyes. V anellope 
and Ralph begin to learn the intricacies of online 
platforms that feel as equally new and anticipating to the viewers. By personifying internet culture, this movie provides amusing interactions between the two heroes and manifestations of algorithms, malware viruses, and search engines. Each convoluted concept is shaped into a likable 
character with a pertinent personality, such as a 
pop-up ad having a scruffy, sketchy disposition, and the video-sharing algorithm having a trendy, selective style. Every character immediately 
becomes distinctly memorable, as we start to 
associate their specific attitudes with tools of the actual internet.  
The film’s setting also cleverly displays a 
bustling, sleepless city in order to deliberately 
mirror the internet’s constant movement and 
rapid pace. The space starts to feel three-dimensional and alive, as V anellope and Ralph weave through legions of online users and enter 
edifices that represent different websites and 
servers. Similar to most cities, the internet is also a place of corporate fixation and progression, so we witness our pair adapt to modern customs such as monetary video content and popular 
online gaming. Even though viewers are stripped 
from the familiar domain of the first “Wreck-It Ralph, ” there is an intrigue to see how our vintage characters clash and collaborate with the modern 
advancements of newer territory.  
Although the movie celebrates the innovation 
and growth of the internet, it doesn’t excessively 
glorify it, which is a sigh of relief. “Ralph Breaks the Internet” attempts to maintain this balance by also touching on the web’s dark and ugly facets. Though the negative aspects are distilled 
in order to keep a lighthearted tone, there is still 
subliminal commentary on the potential toxicity that could hurt an entire generation. But, the film is cautious to not be too preachy or denigrating 
in discussing the dangerous side of the internet. 
As “Ralph Breaks the Internet” distinguishes 
internet culture, it also generationally 
distinguishes its audience. The blockbuster locks millennials’ and Gen Z’s sense of comedy 
into place, using a plethora of memes and viral 
videos to be hilarious and relatable. Although there are moments with one-too-many outdated internet references, the film still holds up by 
priding an entire generation as a social media 
zeitgeist. It more or less reflects the current ironic and personal humor, so that young viewers can rewatch the animation in a distant future with a wistful semblance of nostalgia. 
To instill even more nostalgia in the audience, 
this movie is also packed with pop culture references, ranging from Disney itself to Marvel to Star Wars to Pixar. Though it is exciting to see 
big crossovers, it also becomes quite unsettling, 
yet impressive, for film spectators to know that the Disney corporation owns the rights to all these popular studios and franchises. This conglomerate giant dominates the entertainment industry and has a majority of consumers wrapped around its finger. It’s a cultural monolith 
that succeeds frighteningly well by giving the 
people what they want. Hence, “Ralph Breaks the Internet” garners the most laughs by turning comically meta and self-referential at many 
points. It pokes fun at Disney tropes and cliches 
and peppers in the right amount of eponymous cameos and Easter Eggs for viewers to enjoy. These self-aware gimmicks aren’t milked, and instead make the audiences feel like they’re all in 
on well-received inside jokes. 
“Ralph Breaks the Internet” freezes parts of 
the digital 21st century by forever plastering its 
culture on screen for audiences to remember. 
It’s a film about the components of the internet, 
but it also contains sweet moral messages of friendship and self-discovery. As the two titular arcade characters usher us through a reimagined Interweb, the audience can’t help but feel awe 
and sentiment, like they’re immersing into a new 
world for the first time.
 
— ashley  chen
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Ralph  Breaks  the  Internet
PHOTO COURTESY OF CNET.COM
Directed by   Rich Moore,  Phil Johnston 
Starring  John C. Reilly, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, Jane Lynch, Gal Gadot
Release Date  November 21, 2018
Rated  PGCa-
“Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald” leaves audiences spellbound with its connections to “Harry Potter” canon, but it fails to impress with 
the lackluster, titular character of Grindelwald.
“Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of 
Grindelwald, ” the sequel to the 2016 
film “Fantastic Beasts and Where 
to Find Them, ” takes place four years after the 
first movie, amidst growing concerns regarding 
Gellert Grindelwald (Johnny Depp). Grindelwald 
is a wizard who encourages the uprising of pureblood wizards and the strict oppression of 
non-magic beings. The film is rife with surprises 
and spoilers, but the general plot revolves around Newt Scamander (Eddie Redmayne), a 
“magizoologist” who cares for magical creatures 
and travels to Paris under orders from Albus Dumbledore (Jude Law) in an attempt to thwart 
Grindelwald’s plan. What initially begins as an 
investigative quest soon turns into a race against time to uncover lineages and secrets of the past, 
upon which the future relies.
This film is enjoyable on multiple levels and 
was altogether a rare instance where the sequel is much stronger than its predecessor. Most 
importantly, this film succeeded where the first film failed by including a deeper investment in 
the original “Harry Potter” canon and world. While the first film in the “Fantastic Beasts” 
franchise included elements of magic, fans were 
largely disappointed by its lack of connectivity to 
the “Harry Potter” universe. However, this is not the case at all with “The Crimes of Grindelwald, ” 
as fresh faces with familiar names begin to 
emerge, forming a much richer plot with the effect of a more complex film overall. 
Another factor that added significant value 
to the film was how it multi-dimensionally developed its main characters. Rather than 
playing it safe and sticking to basic outlines for 
each character, ulterior motives and elements of the past influence each character to develop 
more naturally than in the first film. Particularly 
pleasing were flashback scenes from the lives of individual characters throughout the film, 
which added a level of depth and accuracy to 
characters that “Harry Potter” fans will recognize and appreciate. In doing so, the film reaches far 
darker places than its previous film, including 
gruesome implications regarding young children, which I note here as a trigger warning. These 
instances are, unfortunately, necessary to the plot. However, apart from these moments, each 
character in the film is handled in a safe and 
satisfying manner. 
Grindelwald is a highly-anticipated character, 
as he is only briefly introduced in the previous movie. However, the character of Grindelwald 
fails for multiple reasons, the first and most obvious being the controversy surrounding J.K. 
Rowling’s decision to represent the character 
with Johnny Depp, an alleged domestic abuser. However, even disregarding these allegations, 
the choice to cast Depp in such a role was 
poor and misguided. He comes across as a flat, unemotional, and unbelievable villain, with a 
lack of any dimension or passion. There seems 
to be no motive behind his actions. Of course, this impression may be attributed to bad writing, 
a desire to portray Grindelwald as a sociopathic 
character, or the effort to preserve mystery around a character in what appears to be an 
ongoing series. However, the character does 
not indicate that he is nuanced in any of these facets. Depp’s offensively mediocre performance, 
combined with the film’s adamant decision to choose such a controversial actor amidst public 
disapproval, reflects poorly on the management 
of the film as a whole. 
“Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald” 
impresses audiences by outshining its first film. The main characters are more fully developed 
and cleverly situated. Satisfying surprises in the film’s plot and flashbacks keep audiences engaged 
and unprepared for the film’s final outcome. 
However, Depp’s portrayal of Grindelwald is disappointing and offensive to many, preventing 
this film from receiving an “ A. ” That being said, 
the film’s contributions to the “Harry Potter” canon and bloodlines within the wizarding world 
are executed beautifully. David Y ates’ meticulous 
direction allows for the same incredible visual effects and vivid quality that one can expect from 
a film set in the “Harry Potter” world. It is this 
attention to detail and whirlwind plot that leaves audiences highly anticipative of the next film in 
the series .
— Laura  Hatanaka
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Fa ntasti c  B easts:  Th e  C r i m es  o f  G r i n d elwa ld
PHOTO COURTESY OF EW.COM
Directed by   David Yates 
Starring  Eddie Redmayne, Johnny Depp, Jude Law, Ezra Miller, Zoe Kravitz, Katherine Waterston
Release Date  November 16, 2018
Rated  PG-13CBLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
When Life Gives Us Wildfires 
by Jade Hookham // Staff Writer
I awoke at 6:30 a.m. on a Friday morning 
for the sake of an 8 a.m. meeting, a worthy 
cause which did little to ease my murky 
feeling of tiredness. This I-only-have-to-be-
on-campus-by-11 body clock that I had going was not working in my favor. As per usual, I looked to my cellphone for a mindless stroll 
through Twitter to get my gears going. In the 
absence of such a ritual, I would be worse off than … lots of things. Give me a break, 6:30 in the morning is too early to think of a good metaphor.
Surprisingly enough, I saw that I had 
two missed calls from my younger brother, a rarity given that high schoolers would rather catch the plague than be forced to talk on the 
phone. Though I had a sinking feeling as to 
what this might have been about, I called him back as if this situation fell within the realm of normalcy.
“Hey, what’s up?” I gravelled through the 
receiver. “Why’ d you call so early?”
“Oh, yeah … so, we’re evacuating right 
now. And I called to ask what you want saved from your room? The fire is pretty close to 
the house. ” My heart dropped a little as the suspicions wriggling around in my mind 
came to fruition.
The situation had escalated compared to 
the night before. Whereas the prior evening was full of anxious texts from my other brother at our mom’s reluctance to evacuate, this was the real deal. A groggy attempt to 
laundry-list my most treasured possessions 
was interspersed with fire updates in my brother’s static-laden voice; apparently the blaze had progressed to the end of our street. Evacuation for the neighborhood of Bell 
Canyon was now mandatory.
As much as I felt relief that my family and 
pets would be safe, a measure of melancholy 
washed over me, too. Could the place that 
I’ d called home since the age of two really 
be incinerated within hours? The bedroom which housed countless memories, now ash? Regardless, I’ d have no way of knowing for sure until about 36 hours later. I watched 
news about the Woolsey fire that Friday night 
with what felt like a stone wedged in my windpipe, praying that none of the houses I saw burning was my own.
After a full day without any updates, I finally got a text from my mom saying that our house had been spared. Our part of the neighborhood was lucky enough to have 
avoided the brunt of it all, though others 
weren’t as lucky. A family friend who happens to be my hairdresser lost her home entirely, along with tens of other residents. When I 
saw a news photo of her signature red lawn 
chair (which I’ d sat in myself, with hair full of bleach) fronting a pile of rubble, I had a sort of out-of-body experience.
The fire risk in Southern California is 
very real, as many of us know well. But to be honest, the gravity of such a danger never hit me directly until now. I’ d been forced to evacuate my home once before in elementary 
school, but that’s a memory more so tinged 
with curiosity than alarm. That whole event felt like a giant sleepover at my grandma’s house, which was all good in my book. Plus, nobody had lost their house back then, either. 
As horrendously cliche as it sounds, this 
fire made me realize how fragile modern existence is. We all want a place to go back to, craving stability above all in a world 
that is anything but. In that moment when my brother called me, I didn’t think to save 
anything of monetary value; I wanted to preserve what, in my mind, was irreplaceable. 
If the room itself was to depart from this 
world, then I would take the items which would best represent the memories from my time spent there. Art projects, books, 
Pokemon cards: I was grateful for it all.
In the wake of this upcoming holiday 
season, I’m keeping in mind more than ever 
to treasure the basic things. I have a house to eat Thanksgiving dinner in, and some people 
do not. While I experienced a couple days’ 
anxiety, some people will have to endure months of rebuilding. Reality can be cold in that way.
It shouldn’t have taken a near-catastrophic 
event to smack some gratefulness into me, but it did nonetheless. Hopefully, other people won’t be forced to do the same.
For anyone in the spirit of giving, 
organizations such as Red Cross, GoFundMe, and the International Association of Firefighters all have fundraisers for various relief efforts.
Ways To Give Back
   Oxford Dictionaries recently announced 
that “toxic” was the official word of 2018. This word was chosen not only for the prevalence 
of the phrase “toxic masculinity” and its 
relation to the #MeToo movement, but also for its scope in describing a plethora of events and circumstances over this past year — be it 
in politics, health, cultures, or other. 
   Our world does not have to be scary, difficult, or challenging, but we have to put in the work to create safe and supportive 
environments for all. This season of giving, 
we offer you a few ways to give back to San Diego communities and to fight against this toxicity that is still so embedded in our 
society today. 
Food Insecurity 
In San Diego County, one in eight adults 
and one in five children face food insecurity, meaning that they will not know how they will 
get their next meal. The Jacobs & Cushman 
San Diego Food Bank and our North County Food Bank feed 370,000 people per month by working with 400 local nonprofits that operate feeding programs. Volunteers can 
help at the warehouse, food distribution 
sites, or at events by cleaning fresh produce, labeling food donations, assembling food packages, and more. 
Improving Literacy
Eighty-three percent of low-income students in the U.S. cannot read at grade level by the fourth grade, making them more likely to drop out of school. Traveling Stories attempts 
to change this by inspiring a love for reading 
while also teaching financial literacy skills at a young age. Volunteers read with children at weekly StoryTent events at a variety of 
locations around San Diego; for every book 
that a child reads, they earn “book bucks, ” which can then be redeemed for prizes. 
Human Trafficking
As one of the top eight cities in the United States for human trafficking, San Diego has many organizations that work to support survivors and stop the practice. GenerateHope provides long-term housing 
and trauma-informed resources to survivors, 
and volunteers can work directly with residents through teaching a class, tutoring, or providing mentorship. Indirect efforts include positions in program support, 
creative skills, professional partnership, or 
outreach. Hidden Treasures, a nonprofit that aims to “provide residential therapeutic services to teenage girls who are victims of commercial sexual exploitation, ” offers many 
volunteer opportunities in similar areas. 
Border Advocacy
San Diego is located close to one of the busiest 
border crossings in the world. Border Angels 
is a nonprofit involved in many areas of 
border advocacy, including migrant outreach, immigration consulting, and education. One of its most famous programs is the 
Water Drop, where volunteers leave dozens 
of water jugs along high-traffic migrant paths at the border to prevent unnecessary deaths from dehydration. You can also 
support Border Angels when you shop at 
Ralphs by choosing the organization under “Community Rewards. ” A small percentage of your purchase will be donated automatically whenever you use your Ralphs Reward card. 
Supporting Refugees 
The International Rescue Committee provides services to ensure refugees thrive in America. Volunteers can tutor high schoolers or university students, aid people in finding 
a job, help clients applying for naturalization 
or permanent resident status, and more. Internships are also available for college students or recent graduates in areas such as financial opportunity, youth, food and 
farming, and safety and wellness. Mentorship 
and “friendly match” opportunities are also available through the Jewish Family Service of San Diego. 
Environment
Whether you believe or don’t believe in climate change, it never hurts to better our planet and keep it healthy for our generation 
and the generations after us. The Natural 
Resources Defense Council is a nonprofit organization founded in 1970 that works with lawyers, scientists, and other nonprofit 
organizations to help ensure everyone the 
right to “clean air, clean water, and healthy communities. ” Its website offers many ways to get involved, including an option to sign petitions on important environmental 
issues, detailed articles on how to be more 
sustainable, and donation options. If you are interested in maintaining a clean and happy environment, please visit www.nrdc.org to get involved.
by Lifestyle Staff
PHOTO COURTESY OF JADE HOOKHAM12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Cook with a Commuter 
Volume 3: Barbacoa F ajita 
Taco Bowl
  Ever since I entered college, my palate has 
gradually expanded. For example, a cuisine 
that I never really cared for before coming to 
La Jolla was Mexican food. I especially did not 
understand the hype over burrito bowls. Over time, however, the burrito-and-taco-goodness that permeates San Diego won me over, and I 
can now happily say that Mexican food is one 
of my favorite cuisines. 
 B e c a u s e  g o i n g  o u t  t o  e a t  a l l  t h e  t i m e  
is impractical and costly, I often choose to recreate my favorite dishes (even if it would be 
easier and faster to microwave instant ramen). 
Recently, my sister introduced me to Twisted via Instagram. Twisted is a social media community dedicated to creating unique 
recipes by remixing existing ones. Some of its 
tempting concoctions include lasagna fries, “potato tornadoes, ” and cheesecake brownie sandwiches. Many of the recipes seemed tasty and simple enough to replicate. What caught 
my eye, however, were the chicken fajita taco 
bowls. True to their name, these scrumptious snacks are made by stuffing shredded chicken, onions, bell peppers, tomatoes, guacamole, 
Mexican seasoning, cheese, and sour cream 
into homemade taco bowls. Aside from the sour cream and Mexican seasoning, I had the necessary ingredients on-hand. This dish also seemed to demand very little effort other than 
preparing the meat and baking the tortillas. I decided to test this recipe out during the week 
to see how practical and yummy it was.
Last Tuesday, I returned home late after a 
rather long day on campus, so exhausted and ravenous that I nearly gave up on making the fajita taco bowls in favor of microwaving a frozen beef burrito. I also considered trekking 
to the nearest Chipotle Mexican Grill. In 
the end, I decided to spare myself another mediocre frozen meal and save money. Fortunately, I had picked up some premade barbacoa from Ralphs a few days ago in lieu of 
the shredded chicken. This may be considered 
cheating, but — as I have stated in my first volume — I am lazy and impatient. 
 Per the package’s instructions, I boiled 
the bag of barbacoa for eight minutes while preparing the other ingredients. First, I tucked two medium-sized white flour tortillas brushed with a light drizzle of olive oil (since I didn’t have butter like the recipe asked 
for) in between the grooves on a cupcake 
tray and baked them for just another eight minutes. As expected, they turned out nicely crispy. While the tortillas were in the oven, 
I diced my vegetables and briefly sauteed 
them. Instead of sour cream, I opted for some Southwest-style salsa. Once the barbacoa had finished cooking, I assembled everything into the tortilla cups and sprinkled shredded sharp 
cheddar on top. After a little over 20 minutes, the moment of truth had arrived. I eagerly 
dug into my dinner, too famished to even remember to photograph the finished product 
for this article. However, I am pleased to 
write that the fajita taco bowls were a success. Granted, while some lime and seasoning would have further elevated the flavors, the 
meal was still delicious. It is difficult to 
go wrong with simple ingredients that are likely already in your kitchen. I recommend this easy and flexible recipe for anyone who fancies a slightly more elaborate meal without 
any of the stress. Because everything can be 
prepared simultaneously, you won’t spend too much time in the kitchen — perfect for any commuter or university student. 
 
Barbacoa Fajita Taco Bowls (adapted from 
Twisted’s chicken fajita taco bowls)
INGREDIENTS:
• 2 medium-sized soft tortillas 
• ½ cup of Del Real Foods Slow Cooked 
Beef Barbacoa or any product of your choice.
• ¼ bell pepper
• ⅛ onion
• 2 large white mushrooms
• 1 avocado
• ½ tomato 
• ⅓ cup of shredded cheddar cheese
• ¼ cup of salsa• ¼ cup of pickled jalapenos
• 1 tsp. of salt and pepper 
• ½ tsp. of olive oil
INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Lightly brush olive oil onto the tortillas. 
Fold them in between the underside of a cupcake tray, creating a square taco bowl 
shape. You can also place custard cups on 
a shallow baking pan if you don’t have a cupcake tray. 
2. Bake the tortillas at 350 F for eight 
minutes.
3. While the tortillas are in the oven, 
prepare the barbacoa according to the product’s cooking instructions.
4. Wash and dice the vegetables. 
5. Heat up a skillet or frying pan to medium 
heat, add a drizzle of oil or a pat of butter, 
and saute your vegetables for just a few minutes.
6. Mash an avocado in a bowl and sprinkle 
salt and pepper to your liking. You can also drizzle some lemon or lime juice.
7. When the tortillas have finished baking, 
remove them from the oven. Allow them 
to cool for a minute or two.
8. Scoop the barbacoa and vegetables into 
the tortilla bowls. Top off with as much 
jalapenos, guacamole, and cheese as desired.
9. Enjoy! 
by Hakyung Yun // Contributing Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF NEIL MCINTOSHCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
TURKEY CALLING SHOWTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 19 - NOV 25
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21 • 12pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY ANYTHING - 
THE ZONE
Let your creativity flow at The Zone by creating a 
craft of your choice! All supplies will be provided and limited to a first-come, first-serve basis. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS X ACCB 
PRESENTS: THANKFALL CRAFTS - THE STAGE ROOM
University Centers and ACCB will be providing 
supplies so that everyone can create a felt craft* We have holiday ornaments and minature animals such as foxes and dogs! ACCB will also provided snacks!!! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
PROFESSOR UNSCRIPTED: PANDA 
LAB - THE LOFT
How do you feed your brain around the clock? In 
this edition of the Professor Unscripted series, Professor Satchin Panda from the Regulatory Biology Laboratory in Salk Institute is introducing the phenomenon of our brain in relation to dietary health. A leading researcher with prolific works established in time-restricted eating, Dr. Panda will be presenting reasons and ways to boost your well-being by syncing your circadian clock with eating habits. Come learn about self-care in the scientific way!  Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
MEN'S BASKETBALL: UC SAN DIEGO 
VS. CAL STATE SAN BERNARDINO - 
RIMAC ARENA
The Tritons were picked to finish first in the CCAA 
Preseason Coaches Poll. Looking back at its 2017-18 campaign, UC San Diego finished at 21-11 overall and 15-7 in the CCAA, tied for third in the regular season standings. TUE11.20 MON11.19
SMOG EATING WALL DESIGN 
SUBMISSION - PRICE CENTER 
Greeks Gone Green will be installing a Smog Eating 
Wall outside of PC in an attempt to mediate 
noxious emissions on our campus. The poster will 
be located on the wall by the ATMs by PC loop, and 
will be very visible to passing foot traffic. This 
would be a great opportunity for any student who 
would love to make a lasting impression on UCSD's 
campus or would like to gain recognition or 
exposure for their work. We are looking for any kind 
of creative submission that inspires sustainability 
and environmentalism and would love to 
encourage anyone to submit a design concept. We 
are currently taking submissions for the design of 
this mural that will be displayed for a minimum of 
1 year. Submissions are accepted on an ongoing 
basis until November, 27, 2018.  Submit your 
designs at 
https://goo.gl/forms/9cizV0eL5dN3Nkt32 Contact: 
ucsdgreeksgonegreen@gmail.com
10am
YOGA ZONE - THE ZONE
Taught by a FitLife instructor, this free program is 
on first come, first serve basis. All materials 
including yoga mats are provided. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE coffee, 
tea and snacks! Come destress with University 
Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
2pm
PARTNERSHIP SCHOOLS PROGRAM 
INFO SESSIONS - THURGOOD 
MARSHALL ADMINISTRATION 
BUILDING
TMC's Partnership Schools Program encourages 
you to apply to be an intern or volunteer tutor at 
one of our two Partnership Schools Gompers 
Preparatory Academy and the Preuss School for the 
2019 Winter Quarter. Volunteers who also take the 
TMC 198 course can earn 4 credits and satisfy 
requirements for Marshall, ERC, and Sixth College! 
For more information please come to one of our info 
sessions or visit our website!  Contact: 
partnershipschools@ucsd.eduWED11.21GEISEL LIBRARY - SEUSS ROOM
12pm
TURKEY CALLING SHOW - GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
The UC San Diego Library invites you to learn 
turkey calling techniques and participate in 
an old school radio broadcast filled with 
music and stories! Youll learn about the American turkey, its surprising presence in European art, and review worldwide Thanksgiving traditions via Library research tools. Contact: spaulson@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness 
Peers! Measure your psychological stressors 
and learn more about what makes you most 
stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night 
at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials 
while attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCTS ) - ASANTE 
CLASSROOM
One of I-House's most popular events, 
Language Conversation Tables (LCTs) creates an environment where people can learn another language through the art of conversing with a fluent speaker. LCTs has successfully helped people know more about both the language and the accompanied culture, as well as generating long-lasting friendships! Please RSVP at https://tinyurl.com/Fall18LCT Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
THANKSGIVING
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Maximum limit
4. Grocery cart rider, often7. Grave letters?
10. Ludacris output
13. Sports legend from Kentucky
14. Stark16. Univ. Web letters17. He was the first image aired over TV
19. 10th anniversary material
20. Corp. hotshot
21. Bowery denizen, perhaps22. Mr. Maverick23. Kuwaiti official
25. Brutal
28. He thinks it’s not easy being green
32. They may be designated for rest or 
play
33. ‘’Thereabouts’’
34. Like Gen. Wesley Clark
37. Pawnshop sign, perhaps
38. Word with light or line39. Thesis counterparts41. Snaky character?42. Ireland, e.g.44. 1976 Olympics name45. Noted public safety crusader49. Female reunion attendees51. Mint or sage, e.g.52. Clothes hanger option53. Starter for legal or graph55. Merry undertaking59. Deep Throat’s employer60. Mascot with a N.J. gravesite63. Crowd-sized server64. Late parties65. Senora Peron66. Trail67. Play on words68. Eco hazard69. Cubby hole?DOWN
1. Outdoor eatery2. Yankee slugger Rodriguez3. Carpet thickness
4. Push to the limit
5. Circumvent
6. One place for a slogan7. Patient’s goal8. 401(k) supplement
9. Obedience school attendee
10. Go backward
11. Debussy’s farewell12. Eschews a fourth-and-long pass15. Sum of the first three prime num-
bers
18. He cometh in a title22. Part of a speaker’s intro, often24. The Alamo, once26. Hypotheticals
27. Bing Crosby or Harry Connick, Jr., e.g.
28. Cabbage variety
29. Mythical Greek archer30. Confidence-boosting31. Obviously contrived35. Kazan of Hollywood36. Peter or Ivan, e.g. (Var.)38. Takes a morning off40. Unruly crowd43. Bouncy Jamaican music46. Montmartre Mrs.47. Having height, width and depth, 
briefly
48. Like some arguments49. Ghastly50. The Scales, to astrologers54. Make public56. Passed handily57. Move around58. Olympic skating medalist Michelle60. Seer’s skill61. Hulk portrayer Ferrigno62. Successor to F.D.R.CARS
1966 Ford Mustang - $13,900. 302 V8 
Engine C4 Transmission, completely restored, front disk brakes, new paint Grabber Orange, New upholstery, New wheels and tires. New windows and rubber, New decals, New Radio, Holly four Barrel Carburetor, Electronic Ignition, New radiator, water pump, belts, and hoses. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
used 2017 Chevrolet Cruze LT 4D 
Hatchback - $14,800. six Speaker Audio System Feature,6 Speakers,Am/Fm ste -
reo: SiriusXM,Radio data system,Radio: AM/FM Chevrolet MyLink w/7 Touch-Screen,SiriusXM Satellite Radio,A-c,Rear window defroster, Powered steering, Powered windows,Remote keyless entry,Steering wheel mounted audio controls,Traction control... ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Nissan - $10,995 . Free carfax on our 
web sitewww.Govrautos.Com we finance great credit to bad credit!! Low 
down payments and low monthly pay -
ments ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
Math and Chemistry tutor.We are look -
ing for a tutor from UCSD for a high 
school student studying advanced algebra and chemistry. Our home is located within walking distance from UCSD (3-4 blocks). We would ideally like to find someone who is available 1-2 hours daily. Previous tutoring expe -
rience is helpful but not necessary. We need someone who can teach, review homework and offer extra practice questions. ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Undergraduate Healthcare Marketing 
Fellowship Opportunity.Anyone inter -
ested in a paid fellowship to promote a UCSD startup that’s developed a revolutionary acne treatment should 
apply here: http://rebrand.ly/dermala. 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mendocino Farms - Walk In Apply - 
Hosts, Runners, Bussers. Mendo Production team members must be: - Interested or skilled in preparing gourmet food- Able to CREATE HAPPY!  - Age 18+ All you need to bring is your passion for people and your inner “foodie” out. We can teach you all the technical stuff. At Mendo, we’ll cross train you so you’re ready to handle more than one job.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
$75 OBO Expandable Truck Bike Rack - Hollywood T900. The Hollywood Truck Rack’s patented clamping system allows installation of the rack onto the truck bed this rack without any drill-ing holes in the truck or pushing out against the side walls… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Banjo Brothers Grocery Pannier - $30.  
Like New! Banjo Brothers Grocery Pannier. The tough as nails, Grocery 
Pannier includes a shoulder strap and carry handles great for shopping. 
Capacity to fit 1 standard grocery bag 
or plastic bags, and works great alone with its built-in shoulder…ucsdguard-
ian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Women’s Electra Hawaii Beach Cruiser 
- $200. Like new. three speed. Coaster 
brakes. Includes basket for your trea -
sures and a bell to let them know you are coming! ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself with
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
PHOTO COURTESY OF ROYALBROIL
On Tuesday, Nov. 13, in what 
normally would have been just a 
procedural move, the San Diego 
Padres announced that their minor 
league Double-A a ffiliate was being 
renamed the Amarillo Sod Poodles. Subsequently, baseball Twitter erupted 
with praise. Another minor league 
baseball team had rebranded with a 
head-scratchingly brilliant new name and logo. This marked trend has been 
growing over the past few years and 
has brought nothing but good vibes and smiles from all involved. 
The vastness of baseball’s minor 
leagues is unmatched across any major sport in America. The MiLB is 
the largest minor league in sports and thus has the ability to spread baseball 
fandom to areas devoid of a major 
league team. High school football inspires small town communities to congregate around sports, and minor league baseball does the same. With just as much history and connectedness to the town, minor league baseball 
excels in Small Town, USA because of 
its ability to bring professional-grade athletes and entertainment wherever it lands. 
Fun. Whacky. Captivating. All of 
baseball’s best qualities are encapsulated within the friendly con fines of minor 
league baseball stadiums nationwide. From the Lehigh Valley Iron Pigs to the 
newly-dubbed Amarillo Sod Poodles, 
in recent years, minor league baseball has been successful in making baseball stadiums a more family-oriented and fun place to spend on a Saturday 
night. With bounce houses, beer 
gardens, and an intimate atmosphere to go along with goofy mascots, minor league stadiums really do bring a little 
something for everyone. 
Minor league baseball does not 
seem like it would be inherently 
entertaining. W atching these athletes, who have not yet proven themselves 
worthy of the big leagues, play baseball 
in front of as few as a couple thousand fans does not seem like it would imbue joy into the hearts of many. It especially 
does not seem capable of becoming a 
viral and marketable entity. But over the last decade or so, minor league baseball has done just that. With quirky team names, cute and well-
designed logos, and players filled to 
the brim with heart and hustle, minor 
league baseball has become a huge hit. 
This is largely due to the freedom 
minor league teams have. Unlike professional baseball teams in the MLB, which have large TV audiences and tens of thousands of fans packing the stands to watch millionaires in 
some of America’s largest cities, minor 
league baseball teams have small, specific audiences to tend to. Over 
time, minor league teams have become 
more and more successful at reaching 
these audiences while simultaneously garnering national appeal. 
The Sod Poodles are a great case 
study for how a team can do so 
much with so little. Their example 
demonstrates how something as simple as a name can help integrate a 
minor league team within the fabric 
of the small town it is located in. “Sod 
poodles” are prairie dogs, and this funny moniker, while unheard of in cities like New Y ork or Los Angeles, is common and widely understood 
in Texas, especially in Amarillo. Their 
team colors — blue, red, and white 
— match the colors of the Texas flag, 
once again connecting the team to fans 
while also creating a color combination 
unusual in professional sports.
That’s the genius of this new style 
of marketing that is sweeping across minor league baseball. It creates a 
brand deeply intertwined with local 
culture to attract fans to sit in the bleachers and support the team, but also a nationwide appeal due to funny 
yet fashionable logos and flashy colors. 
It has resulted in the proliferation of 
teams like the El Paso Chihuahuas, the Jacksonville Jumbo Shrimp, and the Lansing Lug Nuts — much to the 
delight of baseball fans everywhere. 
Now that minor league teams are gaining more than just a cult following 
with the help of social media, major 
league teams are starting to bring 
pieces of the minor league experience into their own cavernous ballparks. In San Diego’s own Petco Park, the home of the Padres, this is evident in the 
inter-inning antics the team employs, 
such as dancing groundcrews that work in tandem with the traditional “Kiss Cams” and “Dance Cams. ” In 
Oakland, drums and cowbells can be 
heard clanging from a small group of decked-out superfans in right field, 
bringing some of the most well-known sounds of the minor league game up to 
the big leagues. 
This infusion of youthful energy 
is good for the game of baseball at all 
levels and will hopefully continue to 
expand into the front o ffices of other 
major sports franchises across the 
country. 
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@gmail.comMinor League 
Baseball Accentuates All The Best Parts of Baseball
With the help of social media and viral marketing, 
minor league baseball has become a major success.
BY jack dorfman
contributing Writer16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs CSU San Bernardino
at TBAvs Chico Statevs Chico StateWinter National ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Basketball
M Water Polo
W Basketball
M Basketball
Swim & Dive7PM
TBA
5:30PM7:30PM
All Day11/2011/2411/2411/2411/28
This past week, the UC San Diego 
men’s basketball team split two 
matches. It won on Monday at home 
against Saint Martin’s University 
96-69 and lost on the road on Wednesday at Point Loma Nazarene University, 73-75, in overtime. 
That week, UCSD secured its third 
win of the season but su ffered its 
first loss of the season. This week, 
the Tritons have two more games 
as they will play California State 
University, San Bernardino at home 
on Tuesday night and California State University, Chico at home on Saturday night.
Versus Saint Martin’s
On Monday night at RIMAC 
arena, UCSD played a squash match against Saint Martin’s University and defeated the Saints, 96–69. The 
Tritons stayed hot behind the arc as they hit an astounding 9 3-point baskets in each half, compared to the Saints who only sunk 10 3-pointers the entire game. Within the first minute, UCSD took the lead and never trailed in the matchup. The 
Saints tied the Tritons only three times during the match but were never able to take the lead.
Senior forward Christian Oshita 
was the star for the Tritons, scoring an astonishing 35 points for the Tritons. For most of the first half, 
the Tritons kept feeding him the rock and every time he put it up, the whole arena knew it was going in. Oshita scored 10 of the Tritons’ first 
17 points of the game. At that point, 
only seven minutes had passed 
and Oshita had as many points by himself as the entire Saint Martin’s team. Oshita scored 26 points at the 
end of the first half and was on pace 
to break the Tritons all-time single 
game points record (46). He put up 9 more in the second half to finish the 
game with 35 points, 4 rebounds, 2 
assists, 1 steal, and was 9 out of 12 
on 3-point shots.
In the second half, the Tritons 
kept up the fast pace of the first half. 
After putting up 50 in the first half, 
they scored another 46 in the second half for a total of 96 points.. A fter 
dropping 97 points against Western Washington University last week, no one expected another o ffensive 
explosion from the Tritons. As a 
team, the Tritons shot 18 out of 26 
(69.2 percent) on 3-pointers and won their second straight game simply by shooting the lights out 
against the Saints.
Versus Point L oma Nazarene
On Wednesday, the Tritons 
had less luck getting the ball to fall 
and fell to Point Loma, 75–73, in 
overtime. They were only 10 out of 
31 on 3-pointers for a pedestrian 
32.3 percent. Despite that, the Tritons put up a hard fight e from 
the opening tip o ff until the end of 
the game. UCSD led until there was only one second le ft in the fourth 
quarter when Point Loma junior forward Sterling Somers had a put-
back buzzer beater to move the 
game into overtime. The Tritons 
were outscored 11-9 in overtime and suffered their first loss of the 2018-
2019 season.
In the first half, both teams put up monster numbers. UCSD scored 40 first-half points and Point Loma 
put up 37. This was a contentious 
first half, with a lot of back and 
forth, but the Tritons remained on 
top. The Tritons were facilitators 
in the first half as they managed to 
get the ball moving all around the 
court. They had 7 first-half assists to 
Point Loma’s 5. UCSD also had three players, Oshita, freshman guard Tyrell Roberts, and junior forward Scott Everman all put up at least 8 points on the board.
As balanced as the first half 
was, the second half had even more momentum swings with 4 ties and 6 lead changes. Neither team 
had an inch to each other and in 
doing so, the score remained tied going into overtime. In the second half, Roberts came alive as he was the Tritons leading scorer with 11 
points. Unfortunately, he was unable 
to hit any of his 3 free throws he was allotted, which comes as a surprise because Roberts is typically a skilled free throw shooter. 
Roberts cooled o ff after that hot second half and was not playing his best during overtime. He took and missed 3 3-pointers in overtime which account for 75 percent of the Tritons missed field goals in OT. 
Despite that, the Tritons remained in the game. With just a few seconds left, Oshita hit a clutch 3-pointer 
to put the game within 2, but the 
Tritons were unable to get the ball 
back. Oshita led the team in scoring for the second-straight game as he followed up his career-high 35 point performance on Monday with 
20 points on Wednesday. When 
the time expired, the Tritons still trailed by 2 and were handed their first loss of the season. The Tritons 
and Saints are not scheduled to meet again this year, but with how competitive this game was, fans shouldn’t be surprised to see these two teams matched up in the NCAA 
tournament next spring.
Men's basketbalLTritons Fall By 
2 Against Point 
Loma Nazarene
UCSD goes 1–1 for the week, 
crushing Saint Martin’s 96–69 
and narrowly losing 73–75 to 
Point Loma in OT.PHOTO COURTESY O F DERRICK TUSKAN
BY Lucas Armstrong
 Staff Writer
Lucas Armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu
Coming o ff of a hard-fought 
win over Western Washington 
University in the first game of the 
Sodexo Tip-O ff Classic, the UC 
San Diego women’s basketball team faced o ff against another 
Washington state team, Seattle 
Pacific University. Having already 
played exceptionally since the start 
of the season, the Tritons kept their consistency against the Falcons. With a final score of 83–72, UCSD 
came home with yet another win, keeping its season perfect with an overall record of 4–0. 
The Tritons led the game at the 
end of the first quarter but only 
marginally (20–18). UCSD scored the first 3 points of the game, with 
junior forward Mikayla Williams’s 2-pointer and free throw giving the Tritons the initial lead. Nevertheless, despite the point gap widening to 10–3 during the quarter in favor of the Tritons, the Falcons battled back, eventually taking the lead for the first time with two and a half 
minutes left in the quarter. The 
second quarter mirrored the first as 
both teams scored back and forth, with both teams earning 16 points apiece; the first half ended with a 
score of 36–34. 
The third period was much less 
auspicious for UCSD, with Seattle Pacific scoring 5 more points than the Tritons in the quarter and leading by the time the final quarter 
of the game started. Still, the Tritons were not to be phased, doubling the 14 points the Falcons earned in the 
fourth quarter with a huge gain of 
28. With decisive final quarter play, 
UCSD took the game 83–72. 
Offensively, on paper, the 
Falcons did better individually, with their lead scorer boasting more points than redshirt senior guard Joleen Yang’s 25 points. Still, the Tritons ultimately prevailed with their strong defense — junior forward Haleigh Hat field claimed a 
game-high 16 rebounds — and more cohesive team play. 
The Tritons come home to play 
California State University, Chico State on Nov. 24. The game starts at 
5:30 p.m. in RIMAC Arena. 
woMen's basketballWomen’s 
Basketball Off 
to a Hot 4–0 
Start
Tritons outscore the Seattle 
Pacfic Falcons 28–14 in the 4th 
quarter to extend winstreak. PHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY WILHELM
BY Georgiana Soo
contributing Writer
Georgiana Soo  gsoo@ucsd.edu