Several community boards in La 
Jolla have signed a joint resolution 
asking San Diego Mayor Kevin 
Faulconer to regulate bikeshare 
programs that provide users with dockless bikes. These companies 
such as ofoBike and LimeBike allow 
individuals to locate the program’s 
bikes through an app, rent them for the duration of their journey, and then leave them freestanding once the rider 
arrives at their destination.
The resolution has thus far been 
approved by the La Jolla Town 
Council, La Jolla Parks & Beaches, La Jolla Planning Association, Bird Rock Community Council, and La 
Jolla Tra ffic & Transportation in their 
separate meetings. The La Jolla Shores 
Association, however, has refused to 
sign the document and instead sent a 
letter to Faulconer and City Council 
member Barbara Bry requesting an outright ban on the programs instead. 
According to the La Jolla Light, 
the resolution to regulate the dockless 
bikes asks for measures controlling 
where the bikes may be le ft, as they can 
currently be placed almost anywhere once the rider has completed their trip.
The different groups call on San 
Diego to “implement reasonable and balanced regulatory and infrastructure solutions to address the concerns of public safety and aesthetics generated by these forms of personal transportation, 
including enforcement processes for 
the thoughtless abandonment of such vehicles, a more extensive system of recognized bicycle racks, as well as 
consideration of dedicated placement 
zones for dockless bicycles and other personal transportation vehicles which technically require no racking to be safely abandoned. ”
The LJP&B is also considering 
establishing bike racks and other structures in the area so these bikes and other modes of transportation, 
like Bird’s electric scooters, can be 
kept in central locations as opposed to dispersed randomly, La Jolla Light VOLUME 51, ISSUE 28  MONDA Y , MA Y 21, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Justice for Palestine 
Held on Library Walk, Tritons for 
Israel Also Present
Both groups responded to the relocation 
of the American Embassy in Israel. 
The Muslim Student Association, in 
collaboration with Students for Justice 
in Palestine, staged its annual “Justice for Palestine Week” last week by lining Library Walk with large wooden 
boards dedicated to different issues 
facing Palestinians and discussing them with passing students. Tritons for Israel also put up a wooden board covered with hand prints from various students throughout the week as they sought to present their narrative of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as well.
The wooden boards stood along 
the edge of the walkway in front of Price Center, each dedicated to a specific aspect of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict such as Zionism, the Palestinians’ loss of land, the wall separating the populations, and the Israeli government’s checkpoints. 
The conflict between the 
Palestinians and the Israelis is the 
result of a territorial dispute over who 
controls the land upon which Israel is currently situated. Beginning in the latter part of the 19th century, European Jews became increasingly convinced that they needed a state of their own. So from 1896 to 
1948, and particularly during the 
Holocaust, hundreds of thousands of Jews relocated to the predominantly Muslim Palestine, which at the time was a British mandate. 
Considering that both populations 
believe that the region is their religious homeland, violence ensued, which has 
continued to this day. In the time 
since the conflict began, Israel has been internationally recognized by the United Nations as a legitimate Jewish state, and many other countries have become involved in the dispute with Israel currently controlling most of the land. 
The Thurgood Marshall College 
senior who served as the co-head organizer of Justice in Palestine Week requested to go unnamed so as not to be listed on a website called “Canary Mission, ” which tracks Palestine supporters and could adversely affect her family and her future career opportunities. She explained that last week marked the 70th anniversary 
of Nakba Day, which was the 
displacement of Palestinians and the beginning of their occupation and oppression. 
“The goal [was] to spread awareness 
about occupation that has been going on, ” the organizer explained. “It [was] to have intersectionality. ”
The Muslim Student Association 
and Students for Justice in Palestine put up a 100-foot “wall” on Library Walk with information about the current situation, which was  cited with sources at the bottom of the panels.  
“It [was] a mock apartheid wall, ” 
the organizer said, referring to the actual separation barrier that was constructed in the West Bank by 
COMMUNITY
BY Tanaya Sawant
 staff writer
La Jolla Community Groups Seek Regulation or Ban on Dockless Bikes
Members of the baseball team watch as their teammates play against CSU San Marcos. Photo by Daniel Lee // UCSD Guardian  
See ISRAEL / PALESTINE,  page 3The UC San Diego campus and surrounding 
area have been hit with a large string 
of burglaries between May 14 and May 
16, the UC San Diego Police Department stated 
in an email to all students, staff, and faculty. 
The San Diego Police Department is investigating 
approximately 30 burglaries reported at apartment complexes near UCSD while the campus police 
are looking into multiple theft-related crimes in 
campus housing units and unlocked vehicles.
The apartments targeted in these alleged 
burglaries have been occupied and unlocked. While no additional information was provided 
on the crimes under investigation by SDPD, the 
campus police have sent out three community alert bulletins describing two failed and one successful 
burglary attempts occuring on May 13 through 
May 15. 
The first incident occurred at 5 p.m. on May 13 
at the Mesa Nueva graduate apartments, although it was not reported to campus police until May 14 at 11:57 a.m. The individual attempting to 
break in removed the screen to the living room window and was preparing to enter, but he was 
interrupted by the apartment residents and fled. 
According to the reporting party, the suspect is a 
male approximately 5’9” to 5’10” in height and was dressed in light gray sweatpants and a dark gray 
sweatshirt. The race and hair color are unknown. 
Occurring at the Sixth College apartments, the 
second alleged attempted burglary took place at 5:10 a.m. on May 14. The suspect was similarly 
caught trying to enter the apartment through 
the living room window, but the residents of the 
apartment were not able to see the suspect clearly enough to note any identifying features.
Two other instances of theft-related crime 
appear on the police logs for Sixth College on May 14: one report of a stolen backpack and another of 
clothes being taken from a laundry machine. 
Although the nature of the alleged crime was 
similar in both cases, campus police is not yet certain that the two attempted burglaries were 
committed by the same suspect. 
“It’s hard to say, ” Detective Mike Williams told 
the UCSD Guardian. “It’s the same M.O., but it’s in By  Lauren  Hol t   News EditorUCSD 
Series of  Burglaries Plagues Campus Housing and Nearby AreaPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
A MUSEUM IN OUR 
MIDST 
Geisel’s Special Collections 
and Archives are home to 
centuries of world history. 
The UCSD Guardian toured 
the special collection with 
Director Lynda Corey 
Claasson to explore the 
artifacts that too often go 
unnoticed.
IMMIGRANT  CARA V AN
WORLD SERIESStudent  Apathy
Tritons  Sweep the  SeriesOPINION,  Page   4
SPORTS,  PAGE  16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“By focusing too much 
on Trump’s persona, 
the American media 
has helped create 
an inefficient system 
that drowns out real 
news and glorifies 
the wild sayings of a 
backtracking and erratic 
president.” Features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
H 67 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 71 L 58
PHOTO COURTESY OF REFILWE GQAJELA
TUESDAY
H 70 L 57
THURSDAY
H 71 L 58
LIGHTS & SIRENS.........2
HACKTIVISM.................5
REFLECTIONS..............8
BUTTERTONES...........10
CELTICS......................15UCSD
Marcus Thuillier
Across the Globe
 PAGE 4The joint resolution has been approved by multiple boards and will eventually go to Mayor Kevin Faulconer.
BY Lauren  Holt
News editor
See BIKESHARE,  page 3See BURGLARIES,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Mama Z.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarSunday, May 13
12:58 a.m. Excessive Alcohol Male in and out of consciousness, requesting ambulance for alcohol poisoning. Transported to Hospital.2:00 p.m. Injury
Solo bicyclist accident. Transported to Hospital.
3:38 p.m. - 9:18 p.m. Drug ViolationReport of male who grabbed a reporting party’s phone while walking by. RP believed subject to possibly be under the in fluence of unknown substance. 
Closed by Adult Arrest.8:00 p.m. InjuryAdult male ran into tree, injuring his head. Transported to Hospital. 10:36 p.m. Animal Call Report of animal heard squealing and banging against the door. Service 
provided.
Monday, May 14
5:10 a.m. - 5:49 a.m. Attempted Burglary  
Unknown suspect attempted to enter victim’s apartment by removing screen from unsecured/partially open window, suspect fled when confronted by victim. 
Report Taken.9:11 a.m. Citizen ContactRequest to speak with o fficer regarding male subject taking bag of charity items 
and asking for food from staff  members. Information Only.
9:22 a.m. InjuryMale fell on steps and re-injured ankle. Transported to Hospital.9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Petty The ft
Unknown suspect(s) stole victim’s clothing from community laundry area, loss $225.00. Report Taken. 1:05 p.m. Information Only Reporting party states she received call from sister in Balsa Circle; sister stated 
there was a possible hot prowl at her residence. Referred to Other Agency — 
Lake Elsinore Sheri ff’s Office.
2:03 p.m. Suspicious Person  Adult male requesting student to log into their accounts to view his video camera. Service Provided.9:18 p.m. Excessive Alcohol/Drug  
Female was screaming for no apparent reason and then passed out; paramedics believed subject to be overly intoxicated by drug and alcohol. Transported to Hospital.
2:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Petty Theft  
Unknown suspect(s) stole money and headphones from victim’s backpack that 
was possibly le ft unattended in several areas throughout the day, loss $370.00. 
Report Taken.11:00 p.m. Battery Nurse struck by patient, medical aid decline, victim did not wish to press charges. Hospital Security Report Taken.
—  Armonie Mendez
Associate News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
follow  us  on
        twitter@ UCSD
        GUARDIANNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
show your
true colors
with triton outfitters
to.ucsd.eduTritons for Israel Constr ucted Own Wooden Display
▶ ISRAEL / PALESTINE, from page 1
the Israeli government beginning in 
2000. “Israel has built a wall that has separated Palestinians, but we [took] what they use to oppress us and spread information. It is a tool to educate 
people. ”
The organizer also emphasized the 
importance of formulating your own 
opinion. 
“Do not be blind when looking at 
facts, ” the organizer advised. “When 
the media says an Israeli soldier killed, 
look into facts. Be cognizant of the world around you. ”
Situated near the Career Services 
Center on Library W alk, Tritons for Israel responded to Justice in Palestine Week with their own activities. Their primary display was a large white wooden board that students could 
place their painted hands onto to leave 
a print. 
Vice President of Advocacy 
and Marshall College student Alex Reguev explained the mission of their organization and the reason for their presence. 
“Tritons for Israel is a cultural 
organization that tries to promote love, 
peace, and coexistence, ” Reguev told 
the UCSD Guardian.
The board said “ All hands for Love” 
and was meant to show the Israeli side of the conflict, Reguev noted. 
According to Reguev, it was meant 
to “develop a conversation about how not one side is wrong and one side is right; there is wrong and right 
on both sides and it is important to 
acknowledge that. ”
Reguev stated that Israel is there 
to protect its citizens and  anyone that comes into the country. 
“There exists terror and incitement 
that led to the unfortunate situation in Gaza and West Bank that have harmed civilians, ” Reguev said. “The conflict has been perpetuated by so many third parties, and there is a tendency to solely blame Israel for the lack of 
peace. ”
Just like the Justice in Palestine 
Week organizer, Reguev also 
emphasized that it is important for students to make their own opinions 
with the facts. 
“The idea that Israel oppresses 
Palestinians and tries to kill Palestinians 
is false, ” Reguev said. “Other situations around the world have continued to perpetuate idea that Palestinians are a people without a state and that Israel is to blame for that. ”
The first day of Justice in 
Palestine Week, May 14, also marked 
a controversial development in 
the conflict when the United States officially moved its Israeli embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which both parties claim as an important religious site. The United States’ decision to relocate the embassy demonstrates that the government agrees with the Israeli belief that Jerusalem is its holy city. 
“It happened, ” Reguev said, “[and] 
it didn’t change day-to-day life in Israel. It was more of a political move. ” 
The Justice in Palestine Week 
organizer, however, believes the move has negative ramifications. 
“It is an insult and hinders the 
peace process, ” the organizer told the Guardian. “No other country in the 
world has an embassy in Jerusalem, 
which shows how America is biased toward Israel. ” 
Tanaya  Sawant   tsawant@ucsd.eduEmerson: The Bikeshare Programs Are Bad for La Jolla Shores Businesses
▶ BIKESHARE, from page 1
reports.
LJP&B trustee Stratford Collins 
noted that other San Diego areas have 
crafted bike racks unique to their local 
culture, and her group would like to do 
the same.
“There is a real mish-mash of 
styles in La Jolla and we’re thinking about one design that can be used throughout La Jolla that is aesthetically pleasing, ” Collins said. “Encinitas has branded bike racks, Little Italy has 
them, Manhattan Beach has them. The 
ones we have now are branded City of 
San Diego, not La Jolla. ”
LJSA expressed almost unanimous 
disagreement with the other boards and their plans at their May 9 meeting where they voted 11-2-1 to not sign the joint resolution requesting regulation and to stand by their stance on banning 
the bikes instead.
LJSA Chair Janie Emerson noted 
at the meeting that she advocated 
prohibition to the heads of the other organizations, but they did not seem to agree with her concerns.
“I tried to impress on them what 
this what this does to The Shores 
and what it does for our businesses, because they don’t have the same issues as we do in La Jolla Village, ” Emerson 
stated. “So we are pretty much on our 
own. The other groups aren’t going 
to fight it. I was talking against the 
wall. I was flabbergasted. I don’t see 
this (resolution) as accomplishing 
anything, except bene fiting tourists. … 
Their position is the antithesis of ours. ”
Other localities such as San Diego 
proper and Coronado have also sought to ban the dockless bikes, 
citing concerns about harming local businesses, injuries from collisions with the bikes, and the untidy look of the bikes.
UC San Diego itself began 
partnering with Spin, a bikeshare program that can be recognized by its bright orange color, in December 2017. At the launch of Spin, Vice 
Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning Gary Matthews said 
“the program is designed to o ffer the 
campus community an a ffordable, 
environmentally friendly and healthy 
form of personal mobility. ”
However, UCSD previously 
ordered OFO to remove their bikes from the campus a fter claiming that 
the company never received approval from Transportation Services, among 
other issues.
It does not appear the resolutions 
to either regulate or ban the dockless 
bikes by the La Jolla groups will have 
any effect on the UCSD campus itself.  The Investigation is Ongoing and No Suspects Have Been Arrested Y et
▶ BURGLARIES, from page 1
two different parts of campus. ”
The most recent burglary 
reported in a campuswide email was 
at the La Jolla Del Sol apartments at 6:30 p.m. on May 15. According to 
the statement on the supposed crime, 
the victim finished her shower to find that an unknown woman was 
in her apartment. Listed as a 30- to 
35-year-old white or Latina adult, 
the female suspect stole a black backpack, laptop, cellphone, and purse which totaled $2,226 in value. 
The woman was also described as 
thin, approximately 5’5” in height, and wearing dark clothes.
According to the police logs, two 
vehicles were also burglarized at the La Jolla Del Sol apartments on 
May 15, and patio furniture was 
stolen from one of the Central Mesa 
Apartments. None of the suspects have been 
identified, and an arrest has not 
been made. The investigation is 
still in progress. Those with any information are encouraged to 
contact campus police at (858) 534-
4357.
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.eduLauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Currently, the UC workers are striking 
from their everyday jobs including custodians, 
gardeners, cooks, truck drivers, lab technicians, 
and nurse aides. Unless you have not left your room, you must have noticed workers holding 
picket signs and marching across campus for 
three days. The UC workers are halting services 
and protesting to demand equal wages for 
workers of color, who make about 20 percent less than white workers for the same work. 
These workers have been organizing for months, 
but the most salient mode of mobilizing is social media. From event pages, advertisements, and 
ordinary people posting, the movement is no 
longer isolated among the workers. People are getting involved, specifically people with social 
media — the youth. In the realm of social justice, 
we are to understand that activism is a fluid 
practice encompassing various methods. People 
ought to realize that, through social media, the face of activism starts to transform as pivotal 
movements are brought together by ordinary 
people. 
When we activate and are empowered in the 
pursuit of something for the greater good, that is true activism. Activists have been present way 
before our time. Perhaps the most prominent 
and infamous activists are the people of the Black Panther Party. These activists produced 
community service events like free breakfast 
programs, medical clinics, and after-school 
programs. The Black Panther Party is only one of many activists organizations of our time. 
However, activists do not need to perform grand 
gestures to be considered as such. Activists are 
you and me. People who take genuine actions to change the way things are. Today, activism 
is accompanied by a profound medium: social 
media.
Since the introduction of new technology 
and forms of popular culture such as Facebook, 
YouTube, Twitter, and Snapchat, activism 
has been accentuated. Garnering a crowd at a protest has never become easier. Fundraising 
for a community service event has become 
instantaneous. Raising awareness on specific issues is in the palms of our hands. Technology 
has strengthened activism from organized groups 
to people who never thought they would be 
activists. Students at UC San Diego themselves 
have been seen protesting and even leading chants to stand in solidarity with the workers.
With such technology present, we should 
explore how to push the limits of activism. When we look at activism now, the methods have not changed. We are organizing, yes, but the way 
we produce social movements fails to adapt 
with the times. Now that we have technology to 
bolster our movements, why don’t we attempt 
to see what else we can do with it? Why don’t we use technology to be activists? We can use 
our specialties as millennials, well-versed in 
the digital age, to consider other methods of traditional activism. We could hack websites, 
leak private content from the higher-ups, and 
even block out TritonEd. Imagine the people that would listen and the civil disobedience that 
would elicit.
This does not necessitate that young people 
disregard the past and current movements of 
activism. Community service organizing, done by the Black Panther Party, and protesting, 
done by the UC workers, are movements from 
intrepid groups. Social media, and technology 
as a whole, fortifies traditional modes of 
activism and create new ripples. Our ability to disseminate information with a click of a button 
and, in the same token, erase information with 
a click of a button, places us at the forefront of the movement. We are activists. We have the 
power in our hands. So long as we utilize the 
technology present in our time to be conscious 
and present activists, change will come.On April 29, 2018, about 200 Central 
Americans forming the Pueblo Sin Fronteras 
caravan sought asylum in the United States 
through San Ysidro. While several members 
of the caravan were granted asylum, the majority of them were denied, leading them to camp out in Tijuana. The caravan 
dissipated after most were not admitted 
into the U.S., leading many to fear for their safety in Mexico. However, this event did not gain much attention from students at UC San Diego, which is surprising considering 
the recent on-campus protests for various 
social issues. Despite being only 30 miles away, students generally ignored the fate of the refugees. It is ironic how these students, 
many of whom spend their weekends 
crossing freely into Tijuana to drink and party, do not openly care about the issues pertaining to our next-door neighbors. By ignoring issues pertaining to the U.S.-
Mexico border while still taking advantage 
of the tourism in the area, UCSD students are contributing to the greater problem of dehumanizing people of color solely into 
vehicles for entertainment.This dismissive perspective, shared 
by many UCSD students, can be partly 
attributed to the location of the university. 
La Jolla is famously known for being a 
primarily white upper-class community. 
This creates an “untouchable city on a hill” 
mindset amongst residents, including UCSD students, leading to the perception that they do not live in a border region. The only 
time students generally venture to the actual border is to go drinking on the weekends or 
during spring break, which creates an image that the only important characteristic about Tijuana is the lower drinking age.
The lack of interest also stems from the 
demographics of the campus. First, only 34 percent of students on campus are not a part of the on-campus Asian and white majority groups. This means that when 
publicized grievances affect a marginalized 
group, many students may not be able to identify with those affected. Even for those who can identify with a particular group, sometimes there simply is no time, outlet, 
or desire to empathize with those facing 
marginalization. The caravan was composed of Latino refugees from Central America. With only 18 percent of UCSD students 
on campus identify as Latino (and only 
3 percent as identifying with any Latino group other than Mexican), it’s easy to see why such an apathetic approach was taken toward the Pueblo Sin Fronteras caravan.
This level of inactivity does not solely 
pertain to border-related issues. There is a trend of apathy among students when it comes to getting involved with issues In case you’ve been living under 
a rock these past few years, you might 
have missed when the U.S. elected the 
most unpopular president in its history. 
The media has not missed this, however, covering the Donald Trump presidency 
at record rates and with an unforeseen 
amount of vitriol. A report by the 
Harvard Kennedy School’s Shorenstein 
Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy acknowledged that “President 
Trump dominated media coverage in 
the outlets and programs analyzed, with 
Trump being the topic of 41 percent 
of all news stories — three times the amount of coverage received by previous 
presidents.” This excessive coverage has 
also been disproportionately focused 
on Trump’s persona, and not on his 
political decisions, hurting the quality and relevance of news stories during his 
presidency.
American media’s Trump coverage 
differs from how European media covers 
the U.S. as evidenced by the Harvard report: European media “gave relatively 
more space to international trade, 
military, and foreign policy issues,” 
while only four percent of American 
coverage was given to the economy, for example. Europe has a clear interest 
in the U.S.’ global actions, but the 
discrepancies in coverage stem from 
differing views of media. Europe does 
not treat media like entertainment but rather as an educational tool. It is more 
direct in questioning Trump’s ability to 
lead or his domestic and international 
policy decisions.
The news media coverage of the 
Trump administration in the U.S. 
must change. It is understandable 
that journalists find themselves in an 
incredibly difficult position, being forced 
to report on “the world’s most oppressive leader toward press freedom,” as titled 
by the Committee to Protect Journalists. 
But it doesn’t excuse journalists’ laziness 
in covering the presidency.  Instead of 
taking a longer and more partial look at his policies, television media often 
sensationalizes Trump. And when it 
comes time to critique Trump’s policies, 
it often relies on cheap soundbites, 80 
percent of which come from Republicans. There is no nuanced discussion when 
most of the time allotted goes to quick, 
one-sided video clips. 
Ultimately, the presidency coverage 
does not focus on what really matters, the policy implication of having Trump 
in office. The Pew Research Center has 
found that the American press coverage 
in 2017 talked about Trump’s leadership 
and character a staggering 69 percent of the time. That same number was 50 
for former President Obama and 35 for 
former President Bush. And herein lies 
a real problem: The more time focused 
on Trump’s persona, the less the media tackles issues of policy, ideology, and 
agenda. There are of course concerns 
around Trump’s sanity in office, but 
news sources should engage an actual 
dialogue, which functions best without debating whether his last tweet means 
that Trump has gone mad.
By focusing too much on Trump’s 
persona, the American media has helped 
create an inefficient system that drowns out real news and glorifies the wild 
sayings of a backtracking and erratic 
president. Journalists need to recognize 
that the daily tweet is different than 
current events. This approach began well before Trump took office but needs 
to reverse if the press wants to meet its 
responsibility to inform the public.“There is a trend of 
apathy among students 
when it comes to getting 
involved with issues 
not directly pertaining 
to them, even those 
occurring on campus.”
SeeCARAVAN , page 5Economize It
“Technology has 
strengthened activism 
from organized 
groups to people who 
never thought they 
would be activists.” By Marco Landon Siu // Contributing WriterAdvances In Technology Offer New 
Avenues for ActivismArmchair Apathy Crosses 
the Border
By: Jacob Sutherland // Senior Sta ff WriterCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDUACROSS 
THE GLOBE
Trumping Trump’s 
Tweets
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
UC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER  
TRANSIT PASS
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited rides on MTS 
and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express  routes excluded.) Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  or continuing students from Spring 2018 to Fall 2018 required.
summerpass.ucsd.edu
Exclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
Online Sales Only: 
June 18 – August 31$36WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
▶ CARAVAN , from page 4
not directly pertaining to them, even those occurring 
on campus. While turnouts were high at the previous two gun violence prevention rallies that took place on campus in March and April, little to no action was taken when the issues of racism and immigration were brought up in Fall Quarter with the actions of Identity Evropa and the inflammatory anti-Deferred-Action-for-Childhood-     Arrivals posters. Likewise, there was little participation in the recent workers’ strike, protest of police brutality by medical students, or the Black Student Union’s protest on MLK  Day from people outside of these causes.
The campus may have had an apathetic approach 
to social issues, but these problems still present real-world consequences that need consideration. Unfortunately, in regards to the Pueblo Sin Fronteras caravan, there are no present solutions to the refugee crisis, and situations are growing more dire. According to the San Diego Union-Tribune, caravaners have been subject to numerous attacks since arriving in Tijuana. Further, for those who remain in Tijuana, access to food, water, and shelter is scarce, as many fled Central America with only what they could carry and little to no money. 
However, this event does serve as a point of 
reference for students at UCSD. The students do have a certain level of privilege in being able to attend a university in such an affluent neighborhood. This means that access to resources, people, and funds are, for the most part, abundant. Should future socio-political issues arise, it will be the role of students to 
stay actively informed and take the necessary actions 
to bolster relief efforts. This can take the form of students going out into the community to raise funds for organizations, calling congresspeople to pass pertinent legislation, or simply putting out petitions for causes that truly matter. Regardless of actions taken, the Pueblo Sin Fronteras’ lack of student action affirms the need for student involvement in sociopolitical issues, whether the issues directly affect them or not.
JACOB SUTHERLAND   Jsuther@ucsd.edu  6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Tucked away on the second floor of Geisel Library, 
past the tables and study rooms full of busy 
students, lies a trove of historical treasures. It is the 
UC San Diego Library Special Collections and Archives, 
home to a wide variety of manuscripts, artworks, films, and other artifacts dating 
back to as early as the 
13th century. 
Yet the space that 
houses these rare gems is 
rather modest. Behind an 
inconspicuous-looking door off a hallway lined 
with group study tables, 
you’ll find a small set of rooms with shelves full of books and art pieces and the office of Director 
of Special Collections 
Lynda Corey Claassen.
Gesturing at the shelves, Claassen stated, “These are all 
reference books that pertain to the Spanish civil war, then over here there’ll be a whole section about voyages to the Pacific. These aren’t necessarily rare books, but they are sort of a working library for the topics. ”
After explaining that these smaller rooms are designated 
areas for viewing Special Collections materials, Claassen led me into the annex. Once inside, I felt a shift in the air — it was colder and drier (as the artifacts must be stored 
at a specific temperature and humidity for preservation 
purposes) but also, in more of a metaphysical sense, heavier. I felt as though I’ d stepped back in time.
Hundreds of shelves nearly as tall as the ceiling seemed 
to stretched back for miles, chock-full of books and boxes. We strolled past them, Claassen stopping occasionally to pull an item off the shelf and show me. We looked at 
paintings, drafts of poems, 
and anthologies, all of them 
one-of-a-kind.
“We have a world-famous 
collection of early voyages 
to the Pacific … we have 
one of the largest American poetry collections in the 
country. There’s about 
250,000 books and several miles worth of manuscripts. So there’s a lot of unique material here that doesn’t 
exist anywhere else in the 
world, ” Claassen enthused.
Though Claassen has a particular fondness for the 
Hill Collection of Pacific Voyages, praising the atlases’ 
illustrations and calling them “glorious examples of publication, ” she finds it difficult not to fall in love with each new addition to the archives.
“New things come in here all the time, and I’m sort 
of the chief curator so I acquire most of those. There [are] things that I just love personally, but if I’m doing an exhibition and start looking in some other material, I’ll 
find another thing that I love. ” 
Geisel Library’s 
Special Collections and Archives is home to centuries’ worth of world history. Th e 
UCSD Guardian toured the archives with Director Lynda Corey Claassen to explore the artifacts that too o ften go 
unnoticed. 
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong // 
Senior Sta ff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF LIBRARY .UCSD.EDUThe  Library Special  Collections  and  Archives: 
A  Museum   in   our  Midst 
SeeMUSEUM , page 7
“It’s part of what makes 
UCSD a distinctive institution. 
But with your incredibly busy 
schedules, when do you find the 
time to sort of wander around 
campus and explore its hidden 
secrets?”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
▶ MUSEUM , from page 6
While the annex is not open to the 
general public, Special Collections 
employees can go into the store room and 
retrieve artifacts that people request. This space in Geisel is one of Special Collections’ four locations and the only one that offers 
public services. The other locations include 
Scripps Institute of Oceanography, UCLA ’s Southern Regional Library Facility, and a giant warehouse three miles from campus.
Special Collections purchased some of 
its artifacts but most are acquired through personal relationships and archives. The 
large volume of Dr. Seuss materials, for 
example, were donated to the university directly by his family.
“Dr. Seuss lived here in La Jolla for 
45 years, and he and his wife were very interested in the development of UCSD. Before UCSD existed, he had put some of his earlier drawings in UCLA. Then, right 
before he passed away, he wanted all of his 
materials here. Everything that was at his house, which was the majority of it, is here 
now. ”
Each year, Special Collections curates 
an exhibit of Dr. Seuss’ work in celebration 
of his birthday. Outside of these regular 
exhibits, which can be viewed in the 
display cases on the library’s second floor, Special Collections also partners with local organizations to curate exhibits. 
The university recently contributed about 
25 volumes to an exhibit at the Mingei International Museum in Balboa Park 
named “Voluminous Art, ” which celebrates 
the art of the book and bookmaking. 
Students and faculty can also access 
Special Collections materials to support 
their research. Certain humanities classes, 
such as Professor Mark G. Hanna’s “The Golden Age of Piracy, ” even require students to use Special Collections materials in their coursework.
“[Special Collections] here at UCSD 
was really created to help support various academic departments, ” Claassen 
remarked.
“So modern Spain, for example, has 
always been a big focus of the history 
department here, and that’s still true, so we 
have the world’s largest collection on the Spanish civil war. ”
Another way for students to get involved 
with Special Collections is through its 
Undergraduate Curating Opportunity. Launched in 2017, the program allows students to use Special Collections 
materials to research an area of their choice, 
then design an exhibit to be displayed throughout Spring Quarter. 
“We were trying to think of new ways 
of enriching the student experience, which is one of the visions of UCSD, and we came up with [the Undergraduate Curating 
Opportunity], ” Claassen recounted.
“It was a way to introduce some students 
to a small part of [Special Collections] and 
let them work with those unique materials 
in a different way than they might have 
been able to in their regular coursework. ”
This year, there are two student exhibits: 
Warren C ollege senior Jorge Arana and 
John Muir College senior Rebecca Chhay’s 
“Tijuana: The View from the North” examines cross-border relations with 
Tijuana while Carlisle Boyle’s “Preserving 
History in the Pursuit of Science” focuses on J. Edward Hoffmeister’s expeditions to the South Pacific.
Chhay related, “It was just so rewarding 
to see people actually be interested in our exhibit. Most people go to the library with a set plan to study or work on something, 
but even these super goal-oriented people 
stop to look at the exhibits. It’s a great way for students to see the space in a different 
light. ”
Fostering a growing sense of familiarity 
between Special Collections and the student 
body is something Claassen hopes to see 
for the institution’s future. The director 
noted how easy it is to go about your UCSD career without any involvement with Special Collections.
“Unless you investigate on your own 
or read something like this article, your [undergraduate] class requires you to use the collection, [or] you’re just curious on 
your own, you won’t experience this, and I 
wish more students would, ” Claassen said.
With a campus culture that prioritizes 
science, technology, engineering, and math, 
non-humanities students are especially liable to overlook Special Collections. 
Claassen acknowledged that, since the 
archives mainly pertain to the arts and 
humanities, Special Collections isn’t quite as relevant to those studying the sciences.
“[The artifacts] are largely humanities 
materials, so the majority of the school isn’t going to be rushing over here to Special Collections. Even the [SIO] materials get used a lot by non-SIO people since SIO 
researchers aren’t particularly interested in 
the history of science. ”
Humanities student or not, Special 
Collections exists to enhance the lives of every member of the UCSD community. Like the Stuart Art Collection, it simultaneously contributes to the 
university’s individuality and supplements 
the educational experience. Claassen understood the nuances of Special Collections’ role at UCSD — it is definitely 
a significant part of our campus, but its 
purpose is less fundamental and more for enrichment.
“It’s part of what makes UCSD a 
distinctive institution. But with your incredibly busy schedules, when do you find the time to sort of wander around 
campus and explore its hidden secrets?”
Not wanting to remain a hidden secret, 
Special Collections has been conducting 
outreach and instruction efforts to further 
familiarize the UCSD community with 
its materials. It hosts the annual birthday party for Dr. Seuss, for instance, inviting 
visitors to experience the broad collection 
of his artwork. Piquing interest through events and exhibits is the first step in cultivating student engagement with 
Special Collections.
Claassen noted, “If students looked at 
the exhibitions, for example, would it kind 
of occur to them that, ‘Oh my gosh — those photos and other artifacts are actually here 
at this university?’ It must occur to some 
of them. ”
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF LIBRARY .UCSD.EDUPHOTO COURTESY OF LIBRARY .UCSD.EDUA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Taking a retrospective look at my first year at UC San Diego, I have 
learned many things: how to avoid holding a gaze with anyone on Library 
W alk, that raccoons own this campus, and to be aware of exploding 
driers (or anything related to Housing Dining Hospitality, honestly). In 
all seriousness though, my first year of college has been quite the learning experience. I’ve made new friends, had roommate troubles, studied more than I thought could be possible, had some good days, and had some bad 
days. The point is, not everything is going to go as perfectly planned, and 
that’s OK.
Let me first share some background about myself to really set the scene. 
I am from a small town about an hour from St. Louis, Missouri called New Melle, with a population of 495. Growing up in a small town with hardly 
any diversity of thought, religion, or ethnicity didn’t prepare me for the 
move to California. Before I left Missouri, I had this clear idea of how my first year would go: make a ton of friends, get straight A ’s, join all of the student organizations, and have the time of my life. However, plans like this 
never work out as expected.
First friends: I got put into John Muir College overflow housing in The 
Village at Torrey Pines, and yes, it’s a nice living space, but it’s not the same 
as typical dorm life. I never had that “normal” dorm experience — living with all first years, going through all of the same college experiences with 
your suitemates, being friends with everyone on your floor —  which made 
it that much harder to make friends. Luckily, I grew close to my roommates and made friends through classes, but it was no easy feat. Going to such a 
large school, you have to put yourself out there, but this was all very new 
to me. I went to a small high school with a graduating class of 199, and everyone knew everyone. I never had to put a lot of effort into making friends or meeting people, so coming here and speaking to new people I 
knew nothing about was a little out of my comfort zone. However, when 
you click with someone, it’s effortless. Putting yourself out there is hard, but finding those great friends is worth it. 
Moving on, roommates: I have never had to share a room with anyone 
before coming to college, so having two roommates was another new 
experience. Surprisingly, having roommates is not as hard as I thought 
it would be. We all coexist well together. However, there have been skirmishes, and at some points, real fights. If anyone says that they have never fought with or been upset with their roommates, they’re lying. Even 
the best of roommates have issues sometimes. Life goes on though, and you 
learn from your mistakes.
Next, school: It seems like most people here did not study very much 
in high school because of their “natural intelligence” and received good grades. Then, they tried the same approach here, but with a less successful 
outcome. I never related to the whole “I’m-too-smart-to-study” concept, 
so when I got to college, I studied, but this studying was different. In high school, you have opportunities to raise your grade, but the entirety of a college class’ grade can consist of as little as a midterm and a final. I 
encountered this phenomenon Fall Quarter and was stressed out of my 
mind. I studied relentlessly for over a week for each exam, and I’m talking the whole shabang: Quizlet, study sessions, office hours, all of it. Despite all of this, I still was confused while taking the final. Don’t get me wrong, I’m glad I studied that hard because I ended up getting a good grade, but the 
point is that you can study harder than ever before in your academic career 
and still end up doing just well enough on the test. No exam is exactly how you expect it to be.
The lesson to learn is that nothing ever goes as planned, but that doesn’t 
make it any less incredible. For next year, I know to be open to everything that comes in life; whether it’s friends, classes, student organizations, or experiences. Not everything is as it seems. Looking back, I have enjoyed 
every imperfect and weird moment of this school year, and I’m ready for 
whatever madness next year will bring.
Fires are generally not easy to start. This past fall, a group of friends and I spent 
two hours attempting to start a fire as a simulation during a workshop titled “Life After 
College. ” Now, this was no Bear Grylls episode where college students are isolated in 
the middle of nowhere to start a fire for survival purposes. In fact, it was more of a “the 
fireplace is over there, here’s the fire kit, and a small lighter, ” sort of situation. 
This is embarrassing, right? That 15, assumed-to-be-competent graduating seniors 
from a university could barely get a fire started, even with all the resources handed to us. Metaphorically, there is a lesson to be learned in this intersection of privileged initiative and humble, basic skills for the season known as “life after college. ” But until the actuality of postgraduate sets in, the other lesson learned was found in interdependence. 
Even though the entire process took the better half of a morning — and attempts 
at utilizing Google in the depths of Palomar Mountain — it would have taken much longer if we had not played our roles. Let me explain. Someone brought the self-starting kit, and though they were not entirely sure how to use it, we were lucky enough to have had someone else in the room with Scout’s honor. The entire process would have been 
disorganized chaos without our friend who took initiative and delegated responsibilities. 
Another donated scraps of paper, others went outside to scavenge for sticks, and some just brought energy and encouragement, but without them, we might have needed some “Karen from HR. ”
In the grander scheme of things, to get some end result, we all had to bring the fullest 
of our knowledge, resources, abilities, and personalities, knowing that our individual experiences, wisdom, and items could only take us so far. We needed one another to realize and highlight what strengths we were able to bring, the shortcomings we had, and where we filled in the gaps for one another. 
So much of college is spent finding and honing individual identity. We come in 
with our personal histories of volunteer hours, high school memories, and hometown 
legacies, and we begin our college narratives seeking the perfect major, extracurricular, or part-time job. And that’s important — understanding where you come from, where you want to go, and what steps are needed in the process are all a part of why we come to UC San Diego. But I’ve learned that this process isn’t something you come to understand solely on your own. 
All of us are seeking to craft some sort of identity or purpose on campus, shaping 
ourselves to become more refined versions of what we were able to bring to the table 
initially. In my personal process, I noticed that I have become competitive, seeking what 
I can bring that others can’t, in a way that motivates me to want to pursue that thing out of self-preservation more than anything else. At the start of my sophomore year, I 
recognized that I could bring my own seat to the table initially, but the table will still 
remain very empty and the feast unfinished. 
In a symphony, it doesn’t matter how good the violinist is if the piece and orchestra 
require a flute melody. And if there is not one there, or the flutist doesn’t realize how needed they are, the piece cannot aspire to the potential it was meant to reach. In other 
words, the symphony sucks without all of its orchestral members. The same applies to 
our college experiences. Granted, this does not mean that every group project will be the best moment of our academic careers, every living situation will always be the most harmonious, or times spent planning student organization affairs will always be the most 
cohesively structured. Understanding how to be interdependent upon one another — in 
a way that humanizes, affirms, and builds upon, rather than manipulates or selfishly capitalizes — and the skills each person can bring is both a humbling realization that we can’t do it all,that each person brings something unique and necessary, and that without them, there can be a lack of depth and perception that facilitates something more holistic. 
So all in all, this little lesson of interdependence is not something we can individually 
learn and master on our own, but requires some level of effort to practice shifting perspectives, engage with another side, show empathy, introspectively take time to be self-aware, and be in community spaces to grow alongside one another. In no way is this a consistently easy task to take on, but a small, routine practice that can help shape 
academic, professional, and personal relationships and trajectories. 
Or at least if we recognized this at 9 a.m. on that Saturday morning, we might have 
been able to build a fire in less than an hour, tops. Academically, we might be there, but 
in terms of basic survival skills, we have a long ways to go. Each year at UC San Diego comes and goes with new memories, “WTF” moments, late-night sessions, 
emotional ups and downs, and nearly everything in between. As this academic year slowly rides toward its 
end, Lifestyle will be sharing a few lessons learned, in the hope of actively reflecting upon 2017-2018 and seeing 
how it will come to shape 2018-2019. If there are lessons you’d like to pass on, let us know and share your story with lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org! 
Anything But P erfect
Better Togetherby Natasha Vandamme // Staff Writer
by Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle EditorLifestyle Lessons:  
Our Experiences in Trial and Error as Students
LIFESTYLE          THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
http://registrar.ucr.edu/docs/2017-18-UCR_GeneralCatalog.pdf#page=4
Although I thought I would recover quickly from an emergency wisdom-tooth removal on 
the last day of spring break, I was more than dismayed to see that my general health had only 
worsened after the procedure and as the quarter progressed. After several dentist, oral surgeon 
and urgent care visits, I am finally on my way to being OK, but I learned some interesting lessons about being sick while enrolled at UC San Diego. 
1.     It’s hard to concentrate on school or work when you’re in pain.When in constant pain, the last thing a person wants to do is roll out of bed and memorize 
formulas for a midterm, making it easy to fall behind during the healing process. Falling behind stressed me out even more and caused me to drop a class I should not have had to drop. I even struggled to make it to my part-time job as a tutor, and I cannot imagine what it would be like if I relied on my job to afford living and studying at UCSD. This served as a harsh reminder of the 
vicious cycle that can come from being unable to work to afford school and the added stress this 
could bring to UCSD students who face unexpected medical issues.
2.     UCSD advising offices are very helpful. In particular, the financial aid office was very understanding of the difficulties I faced meeting 
deadlines and offered extensions and other clarifications when it came to classes I had to drop because of this health issue. Although the student employees working at my college’s academic advising office almost sent me away, the professional employees were very flexible and  open to discussing my options with me. This gave me one less stress to worry about and was one of the first times since the procedure that I was not worried. If there is one thing to take advantage of at 
UCSD when you face an unexpected health issue, it is the advising offices and their staff.
3.     UCSD professors need to be educated on how to help students who are going through 
health trauma.
For a school that seems to value STEM above all else, doctor’s notes should be taken more 
seriously. Even with a doctor’s note urging me not to attend classes for a week, one of my 
professors still forced me to take a midterm during the time I was supposed to be recovering. A few days after an urgent care visit for a spreading infection, I trudged my way to a classroom of over 300 students (while almost being hit in the face twice with backpacks) and did poorly on my exam. A few hours later my face began to swell up from the increased physical exertion of getting 
to campus, causing me to backtrack on my road to recovery. While I understand that sometimes 
it can be a challenge to create makeup work, I think it is important to find ways to accommodate students who are going through legitimate and unexpected health issues.
It is important to see that even with a less serious health issue and the certain amount of 
privilege I hold, it was still incredibly difficult to navigate my life as a UCSD student during this time. While I wasn’t interested in handouts, I was most appreciative of the professors who provided makeup work and the employees that were kind enough to work with me and not against me. I strongly urge us as a university to find ways to be more accommodating and to hopefully allow students in situations like these to continue to work hard in school while allowing 
them to focus on their health.  Student P ains Are Holding Back Student Gains
by Samirah Martinez // Staff Writer
10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
Last weekend, UC San Diego welcomed 
surf-rock band The Buttertones to The Loft. Their fast-paced, feel-good 
music invited the members of the audience to form a frenzied mosh pit filled with crowd surfing and people dancing the night away. The Buttertones have garnered a 
significant following since their formation 
in 2012; they have performed on UCSD’s campus twice in the last two years, as well as at the world-renowned Coachella music festival. Before starting their set, they were introduced by The Bakery, an alternative 
rock band made up of UCSD undergraduate 
students. Clad in solid-colored tees and skinny jeans, The Bakery set the tone for the rest of the night, its energetic music 
animating the crowd. As people entered the 
venue, it was hard to find anyone who was not having a good time.The Buttertones were welcomed by 
an eager crowd. The dim lighting set the scene; the bodies in the crowd became lively shadows while the musicians occupied the 
limelight. The energy between the band and 
the crowd was palpable. The audience was a sea of enthusiastic faces and swaying bodies. Everywhere, there were girls with funky 
hairstyles and even funkier attitudes and guys 
in dirty white sneakers and colorful tops. At first there was awkward fumbling at the foot of the stage, but by the end of the set there was a frenzied mosh pit of concertgoers swaying 
and vibing together. The explosive energy 
led to crowd surfing, and a couple of excited 
fans jumped on stage, only to get kicked off by security. Even among those who strayed from the pit, there was not a person in sight who wasn’t bobbing their head and tapping 
their feet. Just from looking at the crowd’s 
reactions, you would think The Buttertones were the most popular band in the world.
The Buttertones are best known for their 
song “Orpheus Under the Influence, ” from their self-titled 2014 album “Buttertones. ” Musically, they take inspiration from various genres like surf-rock, garage-rock, post-punk rock, and doo-wop. If pressed to describe their 
music, I’ d say it’s reminiscent of Joy Division 
with a Beach Boys twist — surf-rock, but with a little edge. For an alt-rock band in 2018, the band members were 
sporting distinctively 
vintage attire. The band members all had unique looks to them. They seemed to have 
mastered the messy, ‘60s-inspired look with suave hair. Wearing jackets and slacks, they 
almost looked too formal for their sound. 
However, the clash worked for them, as they filled the room with energy, fueling the frenzied audience in the mosh pit. In 
between songs, the members of the band were 
quite personable as they engaged with the audience and cracked a few jokes. Though the venue was small and the crowd was smaller than what The Buttertones usually garner, everybody seemed to have a good time equal to that of a larger crowd. Once they finished their setlist, the audience chanted for an encore to which The Buttertones granted three additional songs, including their rendition of “La Bamba, ” transforming it into 
a 21st-century feel-good anthem. This was 
the perfect song to end the show with; nearly every person in the room began dancing with abandon. Not a single fan left disappointed 
and many lingered about the stage long after 
the show was over.
KSDT Radio deserves praise for booking 
such an up-and-coming band, as well as making the night free for UCSD students. The 
Buttertones put up an exciting show that kept 
people dancing for its entirety. 
—  Lorena EspinozaStudents danced the night away to the Buttertones’ energetic sound. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  The Loft
Concert Date   May 12, 2018ButtertonesPHOTO COURTESY OF DOLA
CA
Heists, and starships, and Wookies — oh my!
Each year a “galaxy far, far away” seems 
to get just a little bit bigger, as Disney’s new series of “Star Wars Stories” 
explores the ins and outs of a billion-dollar franchise. It didn’t take long for Disney to jump at the opportunity to dive into the past of the galaxy’s most beloved scoundrel: wise-
cracking, cynical smuggler Han Solo (Alden 
Ehrenreich).
He wasn’t always such a cynic, though. 
Solo, we soon learn, was once a piece of hard 
luck growing up on the mean streets of a 
despotic planet. Like most plucky heroes, he had a dream: escaping with his childhood sweetheart, Qi’ra (Emilia Clarke), to roam the 
galaxy and find adventure on every corner. 
Plans go awry, but Solo is propelled into all sorts of unplanned adventures across a vast variety of intergalactic venues: the imperial army, swanky starship “yachts, ” seedy 
gambling tables, impossible heists, and — of 
course — the Millennium Falcon.
The film’s strength is in the sheer vastness it 
gives the “Star Wars” universe. We’ve all spent 
eight movies (nine if you count “Rogue One”) 
hearing an awful lot about how oppressive the Empire is without much insight into the reality of the regime. Solo shows us the ritzy high-class clubs (with the usual cantina music 
replaced by something much more suave) 
at the epicenter of criminal operations, the exploited rural planets, and the miserable crime-infested back alleys. At the center of it all, it gives us an understanding of the actual 
structural inequality and violence the Empire 
set in place, and what it means to exist within that.
This expansion of the universe does mean 
that the film doesn’t really have a cohesive aesthetic. Your mileage may vary on what that brings for the film; at its best it feels like a portfolio of the different corners of the galaxy, 
and at its worst, it feels disjointed and clumsy 
— a bit like multiple movies crammed into one. Though reportedly a “space western, ” the film’s beginning feels a bit more like 
something pulled out of a sci-fi “Oliver Twist. ” 
It’s a fun tribute, maybe, but to what?
For what it’s worth, when the Western 
aesthetics are there, they’re excellent — quiet desert settlements in an expanse of sand, 
crowded bawdy space casinos, and even a 
good old-fashioned standoff.
Despite the perhaps groundbreakingly low 
expectations for his performance, Ehrenreich 
manages a compelling job as the film’s titular 
character. It’s probably safe to say he won’t be holding any Oscars any time soon, but he has an endearing cockiness that gives the heartstrings a good tug. More than anything 
else, the audience’s heart is stolen by Emilia 
Clarke’s performance as Qi’ra, who brings a complexity and nuance to the character otherwise absent from others in the film.
Still, the standout performance has to 
be Donald Glover’s Lando Calrissian, as he manages all the suave and charm the role is known for and turns it up to a hilarious top-notch. Calrissian and Solo’s scenes together 
ring the truest of all, and perhaps the greatest 
tragedy of the film is how few there were. All the chemistry for the character’s original trilogy bromance was certainly there, but the 
relationship is hardly developed aside from 
some hilarious back-and-forth banter (called out as “flirting” by Calrissian’s droid co-pilot).
Call-backs to the original films are 
delightful — despite everything, it is just plain fun to recognize Chewbacca during his entrance, see the Millennium Falcon perform the oft-quoted “Kessel Run in less than 12 parsecs, ” and learn how Han acquired his 
ship in the first place. But in some ways, this 
is all “Solo” has. All in all, the film doesn’t feel like it could have stood on its own — the film’s charm lies in its explorations of and 
kitschy references to pre-existing concepts. As 
a prequel, one would have guessed the point of the film would be to see how Solo turned into the man we see in “ A New Hope, ” but, while we do learn his origins as a smuggler, 
his character development is hazy at best. It’s 
abundantly unclear whether he grows from a cocky, hopeful kid into a cynic only out for himself, or from a youthful delinquent into a “good guy. ” Paradoxically, both seem to be 
true — but only when it benefits the plot.
The challenge of a movie like “Solo” is that 
Solo grows a great deal in the original trilogy, 
so a prequel would ideally show how he gets 
to be the cantankerous pessimist he is in 
Episode IV — a difficult feat without ending on a bitter note, which after “Rogue One, ” would be setting a very depressing precedent 
for “Star Wars Stories. ” Rather than learning to 
thrive in that bittersweet area, or finding that balance another way, “Solo” ends on a vague note in terms of actual character development.
Make no mistake — it is a lot of fun. 
Hardcore fans’ opinions are likely to oscillate wildly depending on personal priorities, but for the casual fan, “Solo” is loaded with all the things that make the “Star Wars” universe 
memorable (outside of the Force). For the 
uninitiated, it’s probably not the best film to start with. While it may not be a peak for the franchise overall, “Solo” is a solid ride through 
one of the world’s most beloved fictional 
universes. 
—  Chloe  Esser
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
Solo:  a  star  wars  story
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Ron Howard
Starring  Alden Ehrenreich, Emilia Clarke, Donald Glover, Woody Harrelson
Release Date  May 25, 2018
Rated  PG -13CB-A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
The Arctic Monkeys are historically known for changing their sound with every album. 
They appear incredibly conscious about their image: awkward and soft-spoken during 
interviews, adverse to excessive popularity, and frequently out of the spotlight for extended 
periods. It has been five years since they introduced their smash hit, “ AM, ” irrefutably their 
most popular album. Once again, the Arctic Monkeys have returned to the scene with a vibe completely divergent from their previous works — and it’s not going to appeal to everyone.
“Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino” evokes a fictional space-station-type establishment on 
the moon, far from the Sheffield pubs and streets that frontman Alex Turner wrote about in his youth. Now, the Arctic Monkeys sound like that one lounge band that everyone passes by in the lobby, filling the empty atmosphere with their soul. Almost every song has an echo to it, as if you’re haphazardly wandering the hallways of a hotel trying to trace the source of the din. Turner composed the album particularly with a piano in mind. Its voice is the standout 
from the rest of the band, often rising and falling in key like a circus organ. The pace is a calm, 
soothing tempo, like the easy-listening Muzak of a lobby. 
The change in tune is, admittedly, jarring. Listeners who jumped on the Arctic Monkeys 
bandwagon at “ AM” will be heartbroken to find no intensity or passion here. Even diehard fans 
who have been around since “Whatever People Say I Am, That’s What I’m Not” may not have 
expected the Arctic Monkeys to switch to such a clean-cut, if not trippy, sound. But the band has never been satisfied with one single theme. They almost always expand their horizons, restlessly experimenting like Bowie or The Beatles. Sure, some of that experimentation has not always been for the best, but innovation always brings a fresh new experience with every listen.
Here, Turner explores the impact that technology and entertainment have had on modern 
society. It’s a “One Point Perspective” of his reaction to his newfound fame. He’s somewhat disillusioned with the sensation, yet his lyrics remain quite thoughtful about his circumstance. “Star Treatment” covers his evolution with the band as they became more popular over time, changing looks and sounds to appeal to a larger audience. “Batphone” and “The World’s First Ever Monster Truck Front Flip” critique our infatuation with smartphone functionality, 
pointing to our ever-shrinking brains as a side-effect. There is “Four Out Of Five, ” the most 
radio-friendly song on the album, hypnotically beating out its capitalist message to “come stay with us” and buy into luxurious conformity. Every track has something to deconstruct about the modern world.
The sheer amount of self-reflection in this album is almost its downfall. It rides the line 
between enjoyable and avant-garde. “She Looks Like Fun, ” the weakest song on the album, is almost self-serving in its description of the freedom and debauchery that comes with fame. It’s almost as if Turner is trying too hard to subvert musical norms at times to sound different. He wants to avoid something too formulaic or recycled, and he has to search deep within himself 
for an expression that is his own unique voice, not one that the uncultured masses want to 
hear. He succeeds in creating a compelling setlist, but one would like to imagine what would happen if he strained himself. 
“Tranquility Base Hotel & Casino” is not for everyone. Those who were expecting a follow-
up to “ AM” will be sorely disappointed with the direction that this album takes; those willing to explore the twisting walls of Turner’s eponymous hotel may find its sounds soothing. More open-minded listeners may take some time to “grow into” the album’s aesthetics and jive, but it’s worth the thousand-lightyear journey that it will take you on.
—  David  De  Leon
 Senior Staff Writer
Tranquility  Base  Hotel  &  Casino
by  The  Arctic  Monkeys
Release Date  May 11, 2018
From the Raves to the Rocket-Launches — the Arctic Monkeys go to space.ALBUM   REVIEW
B+12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
It was quite fitting that a concert by 
a band called Rainbow Kitten Surprise took place on a street boasting pride 
flags in storefronts and on a stage lit with a wide spectrum of colors. These bold features pointed to what would be in store for the large and lively crowd of 20-year-olds packed into 
a theater hall. With alcohol and anticipation 
buzzing through a cheering crowd, the show started right on time.
Folk trio Caamp kicked off the night with 
a banjo and a pair of guitars. The lead singer, 
Taylor Meier, donned a cowboy hat and, 
accompanied by acoustic instrumentals, sang bittersweet stories of the wild country and family. With his throaty voice aching over his 
words, one could imagine him in a movie as a lone cowboy singing in a dark and lonely 
saloon. As is common with opening acts, the band initially received a quiet reception from the unacquainted audience. However, 
the three musicians soon energized the room, 
that welcomed their catchy country style, folksy rhythms, and eventual introduction of drums. Alongside their powerful themes, 
some songs featured impressive guitar and 
banjo solos, when the band poured all its energy and focus into its swift strumming, feats that rewarded it with hoots and whistles from the crowd. Even with some false endings 
and premature clapping, Caamp proved to be 
a worthy opener for Rainbow Kitten Surprise, who it had been touring with throughout California. Its last song of the tour that night was dedicated to the headlining band, and it 
even featured one of the RKS members.
Twenty minutes later, the dark stage burst 
into bright golden lights, and the inside voices 
of the audience erupted into loud cheering. 
In walked the five men who made up the 
beloved band with  instruments, casual shirts, and jeans, and without any introduction, they immediately struck the crowd with “Mission to Mars” and “Fever Pitch, ” two brooding, toe-
tapping songs from their new album “How to: Friend, Love, Freefall. ”
The band members, it seemed, instantly 
settled into a restless rhythm that would 
last the rest of the night. They banged their heads to the thudding drum beats, pressed 
their hands and mouths against their mics, 
and spun and danced across the stage. The crowd was just as energetic and immersed in the heat of the moment: People kissed, raised 
drinks and phones, and sang — even chanted 
— in unison to lyrics they knew by heart. The mutual admiration between the band and the audience was palpable. It was like a conversation between the two; after every few 
songs, the band would profusely thank San 
Diego, and the crowd would roar back with its own thanks to the band.
Beard sparkling with glitter, the lead singer, 
Sam Melo, demonstrated his abilities as a natural performer. He changed shirts, jumped and frolicked to the music’s upbeat melodies, bounced between the mic and keyboards, acted playful with his bandmates, and gestured 
with his hands to the audience during songs as 
if he was serenading each and every person in the room. He performed alongside the lyrics, bending down to pray during the ominous and 
richly thematic “Holy War, ” which was one of 
the many visually expressive performances of the night. It bathed the band in dark red 
light, and the audience swayed and sang to the 
gothic imagery of a modern-day crusade. The concert was more evocative of a warm and sultry North Carolina night under the stars 
than a theater in the middle of a Southern 
California city. Moments during the concert like this were made even more impactful knowing that Melo recently came out as gay, adding another layer of depth and meaning 
to the band’s emotional songs that dealt with love and spirituality.
Unfortunately, Rainbow Kitten Surprise 
did not play some fan favorites, such as 
“Goodnight Chicago” and “Counting Cards. ” However, the band still performed popular 
songs like “Devil Like Me, ” “Lady Lie, ” and 
“Cocaine Jesus, ” and it is with pleasure to report that such songs were even better live. The stage had a skillful and colorful light 
show, which, though not too expensive or 
fancy, did its job of illuminating the band, making photography easy, and not blinding the audience. The smoke onstage elevated the effects of the lights, and furthermore, the 
sound and volume of the band were just right, 
capturing the natural quality of voices and instruments without becoming overbearing.
Light and sound effects aside, most of 
the success of the show can be attributed to Rainbow Kitten Surprise and even Caamp themselves. Even if the venue and technical aspects had not provided their stellar viewing experience, the band’s music and personality 
would have ultimately made for a show 
that was as unexpectedly vibrant, fun, and unforgettable as its name.
—  Natalie Tran
Senior Staff WriterRainbow Kitten Surprise turned The Observatory North Park into 
a hotbed of indie music for one memorable night.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  The Observatory North Park
Concert Date   May 12, 2018Rainbow  Kitten  Surprise  with  CaampPHOTO COURTESY OF CLASH MAGAZINE
CA-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRATION CLOSES  Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 21 - MAY 272018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANWEDNESDAY, MAY 23
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local growers 
and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: FLOURISH - 
GALBAITH HALL ROOM 190
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well at UC San Diego? Dr. Sheva Assar and a Wellness Peer Educator provide informative and interactive 
exercises to help you flourish! Topics will include: 
managing stress, building social confidence, 
mindfulness, and self-compassion. Contact: sassar@ucsd.edu
4pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM - 
SIXTH COLLEGE, MAIN 
CONFERENCE ROOM
This is a supportive drop-in forum for South Asian 
(International & Asian American) and Desi- identified students earning their undergraduate, graduate & professional degree. Join us for conversations each week & build community. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES! - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come to Therapy Fluffies every Thursday from 
1:30-2:30pm! We bring a variety of trained therapy dogs to help you all unwind! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu 
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: MOVE 
YOUR BODY TONE YOUR MIND - 
MURRAY’S PLACE, STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES CENTER
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcome! Yoga mats are provided! Contact: diquach@ucsd.edu
6pm
EVERYONE: ILLUSTRATIONS OF 
STRENGTH - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, ART SPACE
21+ CHEESE TASTING EVENT: Indulge in a 
gourmet tasting of all types of cheese and hydrate yourself with drinks from The Loft! Brie there or brie square! NOTE: Tickets are required to enter and will go online starting May 17th at 10am. Please make sure to reserve your FREE ticket with you UCSD email for verification. Please reserve your FREE ticket with your UCSD email. If you register with a non-UCSD email, your ticket may be voided. ***Allergy Warning: Cheese samples may contain dairy*** Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTUE5.22
THU5.24MON5.21
9:30am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - 
COMMUTER LOUNGE, PRICE 
CENTER 
University Centers Presents: Destress Mondays. 
TEA, SNACKS, BLISS. Make your Mondays the 
day to recharge and refresh to begin your week 
with a bright start! De-stressors will be 
provided to help you get going for your day such 
as refreshments, food, and more! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
5pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM 
- WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for the conversation about our 
conversations about our experiences as gay 
men, and connect with other gay men on 
campus. This group addresses relationships, 
sexual health, community building and more. 
Contact: gkock@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://caps.ucsd.edu/groups.html
5pm
RESOURCES & RELAXATION 
SQUAD - GEISEL LIBRARY, EAST 
COMMONS
Come to Geisel East Commons for a 5-10 
minute body work! It will help you relax! If you 
can’t make this time, come to The Zone on 
Wednesdays from 1-2pm and Thursdays 6-7pm. 
First come, first serve. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
OASIS @ THE ZONE - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come Fridays from 10 am - 12 pm for tutoring 
provided by Oasis! No appointment needed! Subjects offered are Math (10 & 20 series), Chemistry (4,6,7L too), Organic Chemistry, and Writing (peer review, outlines, rough drafts). Study supplies provided. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
4pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: WISE MIND 
- GALBRAITH HALL ROOM 190
Emotional Mind + Logical Mind = WISE Mind. Wise mind is when both parts of the mind work together in harmony. Learn how to effectively tolerate everyday stressors, communicate effectively while maintaining self-respect and relationships, and improve your relationship with your emotions while living a life in accordance to your values.FRI5.25WED5.23commencement.ucsd.edu
ONLINE
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRATION 
CLOSES MAY 23 - ONLINE
Commencement is almost here and there is still 
time to update your registration to include All 
Campus Commencement. Join classmates from 
across the campus, esteemed faculty, friends and family, and a true American hero to fully experience the pomp and circumstances, joy, and pride that mark one of the most memorable times in a student life. Update your registration 
now and unite with your fellow graduates as we 
celebrate your accomplishments and challenge 
one another to continue pushing for a better future through the words of Rep. John Lewis. 
Contact: commencement@ucsd.edu
12pm
MULSIM'S SISTER'S COMMUNITY 
FORUM - THURGOOD MARSHALL 
COLLEGE (TMC ) ADMIN BUILDING, 
ROOM 126
Join us for conversations about our experiences 
as Muslim women and connect with other 
Muslim sisters on campus. This forum will 
provide an open and supportive space for 
members to discuss various topics, which may 
include family and gender roles and challenges, 
cultural and religious identity, romantic relationships, discrimination, conflict resolution, 
well-being, & etc, Dr. Sheva Assar and Asmaa 
Deiranieh, a Wellness Peer Educator, both 
identify as Muslim women and will facilitate this community conversation. Contact: sassar@ucsd.edu 
1pm
ILEAD: BECOMING A 
STRENGTHS-BASED LEADER - 
WARREN ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 3
Using Gallup’s StrengthsFinder assessment, this 
workshop will introduce student leaders to the positive psychology of StrengthsFinder in developing their own best paths to leadership. Students will be able to understand their most dominant natural talents and how to apply them to leadership positions. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
Students will be able to understand their most 
dominant natural talents and how to apply them to leadership positions. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: TRAIN 
YOUR BRAIN - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Come to The Zone for a free one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! Contact: psavaiano@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come in on to The Zone Wednesday from 
2:30-3:30 pm, right after R&R Squad to learn a new way to de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Get a one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration and learn about deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that help to reduce stress. You never know what a simple breathing exercise can do for you! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Injury mark
5. Epic9. Plus
14. Alternative word
15. Remote
16. Author Oscar ____17. Goof off (2 wds.)19. Wash away
20. Take an oath
21. Harvests
23. Actor ____ Robbins24. Wash cycle26. Flings
28. Treat for kitty
30. Home of the Dolphins
32. Heavyweight great33. Relieved35. Avid
39. Chimney grime
41. Hearsay
43. Stubborn animal44. Keyed up46. ____ bear48. Capone and Roker49. Push down51. Confidential53. ____ Salad56. Musical drama57. Building section58. Oozes61. Feel64. Keaton or Sawyer66. City in NY68. Performer69. Cry of sorrow70. Salty drop71. Marsh grasses72. Variety73. Becomes firmDOWN
 1. Makes a dress2. Cat’s weapon3. Declaration
4. Keep
5. Made a lap
6. Blazing7. Amusement8. Territory
9. Wondrous
10. Man’s title
11. Narrow openings12. ____ Murphy of “Shrek”13. Swarms
18. Tennessee ____ Ford
22. School gp.
25. Shadowbox27. Thailand, formerly28. Playbill listing
29. Burn-soothing plant
30. Office notes
31. False god34. Eats an evening meal36. Written promise37. French female38. Relax40. Recipe measures (abbr.)42. Scrape roughly45. Chalkboard wipers47. Della ____ of “Touched by an Angel”50. Before, to Shakespeare52. Tops of waves53. Closet wood54. Wonderland girl55. Thrill56. Movie award59. Distinct times60. Explorer Marco ____62. Throne63. Does wrong65. Drift off67. FDR’s successorHOUSING
Spot in a Double Room for the Summer 
- $575 per month. Hello, looking to fill 
up a spot in a double in a 2 bed - 2 bath apartment for the summer. There might be 
potentially two spots opening up, that is 2 
spots in a double or you could even make it 
into a single... whatever pleases your heart and meets your needs. Rent for one spot for 
the double is $575 and rent for the whole 
room aka single is $1150. The room has a walk-in closet, attached bathroom and an 
attached balcony with extra storage area. The apartment is fully carpeted, has a spa -
cious living room and an open kitchen and a washer-dryer unit. You will be sharing the apartment with two other gals, and sharing 
your room with me if you choose to double 
it up, and of course, will have the room to 
yourself if you choose to sublet the entire room. Trash chute is down the hall. The bus 
stop is less than a two-minute walk, bus 
ride to UCSD is 10 min max. Please contact 
me for further details. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Woodlands North - Villa La Jolla at Nobel - 
$1,500 per month. You get 1 Bedroom - 1 
Bath - Share my 2 bedroom - 2 bathroom 
home.. Available August 1. Fully furnished private bedroom and private bathroom available in a very bright and quiet condo 
property apartment near UCSD, UTC, La 
Jolla, and beaches. You may not need a 
car! Bus Stop is across the street for UCSD 
and UTC and San Diego. Two blocks to the 
Interstate 5 Freeway onramp. ucsdguard-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
1262 Kettner Blvd Unit 1103 - $670 per 
month. Residence 1103 boasts a bright 
southeast corner location with floor to ceil -
ing glass bathing this well-appointed condo 
in natural light, fully furnished designer pied-a-terre, additional premium upgrades, 
travertine flooring & exotic marble accent walls, striking open and expanded kitchen 
remodel. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
BIKES
Custom like New/ Redline 20” bmx bike/ 
Full Chro-moly/ Freestyle/ Park - $350. Up for sale is a Custom Redline BMX bike 
for multiple riding disciplines; Freestyle/ Street/ Park/ Ramp/ Trails/ and or track use. Frame is Redline freestyle series 7.1 
Frame and forks are Full (All tubing) Chro-
moly. Frame top tube 20” 3/4” (center head 
tube to center seat post) Rear section 14” (center of crank spindle to center of rear 
wheel axle). Bars are Redline Chro-moly 26” 
x 8” 3/4” (Uncut).Stem is Hoffman. Brakes are Tektro/ New 5mm HD housing with 
Stainless cable. Brake pads are New Kool Stop. New Mid Bottom bracket bearings. 
Cranks are 175mm/ 3 piece Chro-moly. ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
Mountain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, Women’s 
-$250. Terrific Condition. Hasn’t been 
ridden in 5 yrs due to being over seas. Size small Component Group: Mountain 
Mix Front Derailleur: Front Derailleur 
Rear Derailleur: Back Derailleur Brake set: Promax aluminum brakes, alumi -
num levers Shift Levers: Shimano Alivio 
Rapid Fire Crankset: Bontrager Sport, 
22/32/42 teeth Pedals: Aluminum platform 
Bottom Bracket: CartridgeBB Shell Width: 
Rear Cogs: 8-speed, 11 - 32 teeth Chain: 
Shimano Seatpost: Bontrager Sport Saddle: 
Bontrager Select Handlebar: Bontrager 
CrowBar Sport Handlebar Stem: Bontrager 
Sport. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Men’s Trek Aluminum ZX Series 1220 Road 
Bike 47 cm (Escondido) - $275. Men’s Trek 
Aluminum ZX Series 1220 Road Bike 47 cm 21 speed. Clean, rides real nice and everything works. Small tear on the seat, 
see pics. Both rims are quick release. The 
bike is made in the USA. Stand over height 
is 29 in. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
JOBS
Summer Nanny - $17/hr. We are in search 
of a summer nanny. Dates and details: June 11-August 20. Mon, Tue and Fri: 7:30 to 3:30 (sometimes to 5:30). Wed and Thurs: 
flexible 3-4 hours/day. Occasional weekend 
babysitting. Can be flexible with hours with 
advanced knowledge/planning. Kids are ages 7 and 5 (girl/boy). No special needs, 
easygoing. Active- like the park, swimming, 
zoo, ice skating etc. Would require tak -
ing the kids to gymnastics and ballet les -
sons. We are in the Hillcrest/Mission Hills 
area. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information.
Personal Helper - $13.00/hr. Disabled man 
needs help with household chores and 
errands. Week days, only. CDL required. 
$13.00 per hour. Call Doug (619) 297-0884. 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information.
Print Shop Assistant (flexible hours) 
-$15.00/hr. We are a small print shop based 
in Sorrento Valley, San Diego, in need of a 
motivated part-time shop assistant! THE 
COMPANY: A popular online based, hand -
made stationery shop known for great qual-
ity and customer service. REQUIREMENTS: Basic Windows and Mac experience, At 
least 10 hours of availability per week dur -
ing standard business hours, Available 
during summer RESPONSIBILITIES: Print on regular inkjet printers, Operate sim -
ple paper cutters and other easy paper processing equipment, Packaging paper goods, Training is provided. ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information.
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
 A.S. WEBMASTER
Join the A.S. Graphic Studio!
Submit resume, cover letter, and sample works
to asgraphicstudio@ucsd.eduJob ID: 1605458
we’re hiring...The National Basketball 
Association Playo ffs are more than 
halfway over, yet no one can say with 
any certainty which of the four teams will make it to the NBA Finals. The 
two remaining series, the Cleveland Cavaliers versus the Boston Celtics and the Golden State Warriors versus the Houston Rockets have been very 
exciting. Today, the focus will be on 
the Eastern Conference and whether or not Brad Stevens and the Celtics can overcome LeBron James and company. 
As of May 19, the NBA Eastern 
Conference Finals series was in the Celtics favor, 2–1. In a not-so-surprising turn of events, 
the Cavaliers showed up to play. 
Knocking down their shots, hustling for loose balls, making the right defensive rotations, every Cavalier player was locked in and ready to 
defend home court at the Quicken 
Loans Arena. 
For the Celtics, the game looked 
like a con firmation of fears held 
by many casual fans before the postseason began: They would 
have trouble scoring. With all-stars point guard Kyrie Irving and small forward Gordon Hayward out for the 
season due to injury, the Celtics had struggled o ffensively for stretches 
during the regular season. Prior 
to game three of the ECF, the team 
managed to get by with production 
distributed evenly across five or six 
players. 
In the third game, the Celtics 
were outscored from the 3-point line 
by 11 3-pointers. Boston shot 6-for-22 (27.3 percent) from the 3-point line and 39.2 percent from the 
field. On the other side, Cleveland 
finished 17-for-34 (50 percent) from 
behind the arc and 48.7 percent from the field. Field goal percentage 
does not paint a complete picture 
of the game, but in this case, it is a 
fair representation of how the game played out. The Cavaliers turned 
up the pressure at home and forced 
Celtic players to take shots out of 
rhythm. The Celtics had no one who 
could impose their will on the court the same way that James does for the Cavaliers — Celtic second-year 
small forward Jaylen Brown, who 
is now averaging 18.7 points per game for the series, found himself in early foul trouble and only scored 10 
points.
With Brown handicapped 
because of foul trouble, the Celtics 
were severely undermanned. The 
team trailed all 48 minutes of 
regulation, unable to string together 
enough stops to tie the game. The key difference for Boston in game three, 
besides the scoring di fficulties, was 
the team’s inability to stop Cavalier 
role players from scoring. All four 
Cavalier starters finished in double 
digits — a signi ficant improvement 
from game two, where Cavalier 
starting guards Earl Joseph “J.R. ” 
Smith III and George Hill scored 0 and 3 points, respectively.
In spite of Cleveland’s victory, 
Boston still has a very strong chance of making the NBA Finals — the Celtics can lose every game in Cleveland, only win every game at home, and still advance to the finals 
because of home court advantage. Boston has to make adjustments, however, and figure out what the 
Cavaliers did di fferently on the 
defensive end in game three. The 
Celtics have what it takes to defeat James, but everything had to work perfectly for them. Even if Coach Brad Stevens is able to draw up 
enough miracle plays for the Celtics 
to make it to game seven, the team will be hard-pressed to reach the finals against James and the Cavs 
in an elimination game. Stay tuned 
to find out if the King finally falls. 
Game four of the NBA ECF will be on May 21 at 5:30 p.m. BY richard  lu
associate sports editor
richard  lu  ril014@ucsd.eduCan the Celtics Slay the King? 
Or Will History Repeat Itself?
With the Celtics up 2-1 in the Eastern Conference finals, things aren’t going the 
way for the LeBron James-led Cavs, but can the Celtics really take his throne?
The increased exposure of 
women’s sport is essential as a 
means of empowering females and 
combating standardized gender 
roles. Recognizing that female sports are accessible to the public informs users that hardworking 
women are just as signi ficant in 
the entertainment business. It also 
allows women to feel acknowledged and appreciated for dedicating so much time and e ffort to a game 
which some, if not all, have been playing for almost their entire lives.
In addition, media coverage 
of successful female athletes gives 
young girls something to strive 
for in the future. In a society heavily constructed through digital technology, witnessing women’s sports among a variety of screens 
provides the youth a group of role models to look up to and hopefully 
fill the shoes of one day.
“Softball is probably the most 
visible women’s college team sport besides basketball, and it’s still growing. ” With that said, the recent expansion of media coverage in 
that speci fic field is understandable. 
Part of the dream to play collegiate 
ball derives from witnessing the special attention athletes receive in being aired on TV . The excitement 
of playing the sport you love, with the people you love, on a big stage, is an adrenaline rush of its own, and I hope that one day, all talented 
female athletes have the chance to 
experience it while being broadcast nationwide.
 ▶ SOFTBALL , from page 16“40 percent of  all athletes are female yet they 
receive just 2 to 4 percent of  media coverage.”
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 21, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
This week the UC San Diego 
baseball team traveled to Azusa 
Pacific University to defend its NCAA 
Division II West Regional Crown. UC San Diego opened its tournament with a bang, defeating Point Loma Nazarene University 22–3 on Thursday. On 
Friday, the Tritons continued their tournament with a comeback victory over California Baptist University, 9–8. On Saturday they beat CBU for the second time in as many days 5–3 
and will advance to the championship 
game on Monday.
Game One
The Tritons wasted no time earning 
a few runs against Point Loma on Thursday as they scored twice in the 
bottom of the first inning to take a 
2–0 lead. The Tritons’ first baseman, 
junior Tyler Durna, worked a one-out fullcount walk to put a runner on 
for redshirt junior and right fielder 
Zander Clarke. Clarke continued his 
hot streak by launching a home run deep over the le ft center field wall 
putting the Tritons up 2–0. Clarke 
was named the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association tournament MVP last week and picked up right where he left off with another great showing 
on Thursday. Clarke finished the game 
3–5 with 2 home runs and 7 RBIs.
The Tritons added more in the 
next two innings as they put up 5 in the second inning and 4 in the third 
inning. Clarke homered again in the 
bottom of the second which scored Durna and redshirt freshman and center fielder Brandon Stewart. In 
the bottom of the third, most of the damage came on a 2-RBI liner up the middle by redshirt freshman and designated hitter Blake Baumgartner. 
After the first three innings, the Tritons had a commanding 11–0 lead over Point Loma.
Senior starting pitcher Mitch 
Hickey delivered once again for the 
Tritons and had one of his best starts of the season. Hickey gave the Tritons six 
solid innings of 2-run baseball, which 
was more than the Tritons needed in the 22–3 win. Hickey picked up his sixth win of the season and improved 
to 6–3 on the year. Hickey kept batters 
off-balance all night as he punched out 
12 batters in only six innings. Hickey struck out the side in the fourth, fifth, 
and sixth innings and averaged 2 
strikeouts an inning for his outing. 
Hickey was pulled a fter six innings, 
not due to ine ffectiveness, but due to 
the fact that all of the strikeouts had 
pushed his pitch count to over 110 
pitches.
The only o ffensive surge Point 
Loma was able to muster came in the sixth inning when it put up 2, but the Tritons answered its 2 with 2 of 
their own in the bottom half of the 
sixth. Point Loma put up one more meaningless run in the ninth but it was moot as the Tritons held on for the 22–3 victory.
The Tritons could not have asked 
for a better start to their tournament. They played an almost picture-perfect 
baseball game in the victory over Point 
Loma and would look to continue this 
success on Friday in the next round versus CBU.
Game Two
On Friday UCSD continued its 
journey with a matchup against CBU. UCSD was down big early but came all the way back to win the game by a score of 9–8. 
CBU was thinking damage early 
as it put up 6 runs in the bottom of the first inning on 4 hits. This is 
reminiscent of the tournament last 
week, where several times the Tritons were put down early and forced to make a comeback, and they did just 
that.
UCSD only got 1.1 innings out of 
its senior starting pitcher Jack Rupe Jr. Rupe was ine ffective on Friday as 
he allowed 5 hits, 6 runs, and 2 walks in the 1.1 innings that he pitched. Luckily for Rupe and the Tritons, his teammates were able to pick him up. 
The bullpen duo of junior right-handed 
pitcher Kyle Lucke and redshirt junior 
right-handed pitcher Cameron Kurz finished the remaining 7.2 innings, 
allowing only one combined earned 
run. Kurz was especially nasty on 
Friday as he closed out the final three 
innings allowing only 1 hit. Of the nine outs recorded by Kurz, eight of them 
were by the way of the strikeout. 
The Tritons put up one run in the 
top of the third inning to chip away 
at the 6-run de ficit on a 2-out fielding 
error by CBU second baseman Luke Navigato. However, the CBU Lancers 
erased the Tritons run with one of their 
own in the bottom of the sixth inning, putting the de ficit back at 6 runs.
Down by 6 in the top of the seventh 
inning, the Tritons were in desperate 
need of a comeback and were running 
out of time. The bats had not been 
working all night, so the Tritons adopted a more patient approach and 
looked to take advantage of any and all 
mistakes made by the Lancers. These 
opportunities came in the seventh and the Tritons put up 6 runs to tie the game 7–7. In the inning the Tritons 
only had 2 hits but were able to score 
6 runs due, in part, to walks by senior second baseman Justin Beck and redshirt junior third baseman Alex 
Eliopulos, to sloppy play by the Lancers 
in the likes of a passed ball, 2 hit-by-pitches, and a fielding error.
However, the Tritons’ success was 
short-lived as the Lancers took the lead again during the bottom half 
of the inning. With runners on the 
corners and only one out, the Tritons had another opportunity to tie the game, and they did just that. Redshirt sophomore catcher Nick Kitzmann 
hit a bouncing ball too short, and a fter 
the shortstop stepped on second base 
he had no play at first. This negated 
the chance of a double play and let 
redshirt sophomore le ft fielder Keenan 
Brigman score from third, tying the 
game once again at 8.
After a 1–2–3 bottom of the eighth 
the Tritons were back up to bat in the 
ninth with the game still tied. With 
one out and nobody on base, the Tritons’ Clarke stepped up to the plate. The CCAA tournament MVP came 
through once again for the Tritons with an opposite- field home run deep over 
the right- field wall, giving the Tritons 
the lead of 9–8 in the ninth inning. This 
was Clarke’s 18th home run of the year and third of this tournament. 
The Tritons held on in the bottom 
half to win the game 9–8. With the win they moved on to game three on Saturday night in a rematch versus CBU with the winner moving on to 
championship Monday.
Game Three
For the second-straight night UCSD 
bested the CBU Lancers with a 5–3 and will play in Monday’s championship 
game to defend its NCAA Division II West Regional Championship. 
As the great Y ogi Berra said, “It’s 
deja vu all over again” as the Tritons 
were down early once again at the 
hands of the Lancers. Triton junior and starting pitcher Preston Mott was slow to settle in as he allowed 3 hits and 2 
runs in the bottom of the first inning, 
leaving the Tritons down 2–0 a fter one 
inning.
After the shaky first inning Mott 
found his rhythm and allowed no further runs until his departure in the sixth inning. Mott finished the 
game with 5.1 innings pitched with 9 
strikeouts and earned his eighth win of the season.
The Tritons immediately answered 
the Lancers’ first inning run with one 
of their own in the top of the second inning thanks both to a pair of singles by Beck and Brigman and to a throwing 
error by the Lancers’ third baseman 
Harrison Spohn. 
Unlike on Friday, the Tritons did 
not wait several innings to come back as they put up 2 more runs in the top 
of the third inning to take a 3–1 lead. 
The damage in this inning came on 2 
doubles by Durna andEliopulos, which knocked in Durna and Stewart. 
After several quiet innings, the 
game moved into the ninth inning still at 3–1 in favor of the Tritons. Brigman led the inning o ff with a line drive to 
dead center- fielder giving the Tritons 
speed on the basepaths with no outs 
and leaving Baumgartner to step up 
to the plate. However, Brigman’s speed was unnecessary as  Baumgartner hit moonshot high over the right- field 
wall, giving the Tritons some insurance 
runs late in the ballgame. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Cameron Leonard closed out the final 
five out of the game and allowed one 
meaningless run as the Tritons were 
victorious 5–3. Leonard pounded the zone in his 1.2 innings of work as 16 of the 19 pitches he threw were for strikes. That strategy paid o ff as he earned his 
third save of the year in the Tritons’ victory.
The win puts the Tritons into the 
championship game on Monday versus 
the Azusa Paci fic University Cougars 
at noon as they look to become repeat 
Division II West Regional Champions.
Media coverage and women’s sports are two terms 
that often fail to go hand-inhand. As hard as that is 
to admit as a collegiate female athlete myself, the statement becomes obvious from simply watching TV . The majority of sports channels are dominated by 
male athletics. In fact, “40 percent of all athletes are female yet they receive just 2 to  4 percent of media coverage. ” The disproportionate numbers are quite 
frustrating to say the least, however the industry has 
come a long way.
After Title IX was passed in 1972, the world 
changed for women in sports. “Today there are more than 3,373,000 girls and women in the U.S. playing 
high school and college sports, ” according to The 
New York Times. Although media coverage statistics 
have not risen as well, the attempt to reach gender 
equality has begun, slowly but surely.
With the 2018 NCAA Division I So ftball 
Championship in the works, the media industry will 
look to counteract prominent stereotypes of today’s 
society. ESPN has agreed to cover every regional competition for a total of 112 games from Thursday 
to Sunday. Ranging from the No. 1 seed to the No. 64 seed, so ftball fanatics will be ecstatic to find each 
and every ESPN network showcasing the fast-paced version of America’s pastime.
BY LUCAS ARMSTRONG
Contributing Writer
lucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edubaseballTritons Head 
To West 
Regional 
Finals
After wins over Point Loma Nazarene 
University and California Baptist 
University, the UCSD baseball team is 
heading to defend its West Regional title on Monday.
Breaking Barriers - 
with Balls and Bats
Writer and Athlete Madeline Lewis 
discusses the importance of increased 
media coverage for women’s sports. SeeSOFTBALL , page 15PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSat Azusa Pacific (West Regionals)
at NCAA Championshipsat Speedo Grand Challengeat NCAA ChampionshipsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Track & Field
Swim & Dive
W Rowing12 PM
TBA
All Day
4 AM5/21
5/245/255/25
BY madeline lewis
senior staff writer