A town hall on college 
affordability was hosted by 
California Assembly Member Tony 
Thurmond at Eleanor Roosevelt 
College on Thursday, Oct. 4. The 
event was co-sponsored by UCSD 
College Democrats.
Thurmond, who is currently 
running to be California’s State Superintendent of Public Instruction, the top elected position 
for an education o fficial, said that 
he “wanted to hear from students 
directly. ”
“What I’ d like to do is invite 
students at all our institutions to 
work with me on legislation that I can sponsor for next year to address affordability, ” Thurmond said. “I 
believe that listening to our students 
is important as a superintendent. I intend to lead and govern that way. ”
The town hall featured a panel 
of various student leaders and officials in California education and 
administration. Among the panel was Caroline Siegel-Singh, statewide 
UC student senator and A.S. vice 
president of external a ffairs. Also 
representing UC San Diego on the panel was Patty Maha ffee, assistant 
vice chancellor of student life, and Alicia Magallanes, member of the Basic Needs Committee. 
The conversation at the town hall 
addressed a broad variety of issues 
facing students, but a few recurring talking points included tuition costs, housing and food insecurity, 
and mental well-being. 
Michael Wiafe, A.S. vice 
president of external relations at San Diego State University, who 
also participated in the panel, said 
that the focus should be on “holistic review. ”
“There’s a lot more that goes into 
a college student than just tuition, ” Wiafe said. “ There’s the classes you 
take, the food you eat, where you live, everything else that surrounds 
your living situation. ” 
“I’m open to all kinds of creative 
solutions, ” Thurmond said, “but I’m 
not willing to accept that we will 
tell students that ‘you can just be VOLUME 52, ISSUE 3  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 15, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LSAT Announces 
T ransition to Digital F ormat 
Some students are concerned about 
the reliability of the technology with 
regards to cheating and accuracy.
On Oct. 3, the Law School 
Admission Council announced 
a plan to digitalize the LSAT law 
school aptitude test experience by 
transitioning from the standard pencil-and-paper format to a Samsung tablet approach.
The LSAT is the final graduate 
admissions exam to go digital — the Medical College Admission Test and Graduate Management Admission Test have already made the switch. 
The transition, which will begin in 
July of 2019, will mark the biggest change in LSAT test-taking in over 30 years. 
According to  Kaplan Test 
Prep’s Executive Director of Pre-Law Jeff Thomas the new approach “shouldn’t scare students — it’s just a shift. Students will be presented 
with the same content, which will 
appear in the same format. ” 
Cynthia Rodriguez, a senior 
pre-law student from Earl Warren 
College, expressed concerns over 
the possibility of technological complications. 
“The change is exciting, but 
as with all things that go virtual 
or digital, there’s always room for 
error, ” Rodriguez said. “Typing is more efficient than using a pencil, but if the system goes down or if 
there is a security breach, everyone 
would likely have to start over. ” 
Other students expressed similar 
reservations. 
“I like the idea of a pencil 
and paper better. It’s what I’m comfortable with — plus, I’m wary of technology error. Not much can go wrong when you’re using just 
a pen or pencil, ” Christine Lee, a 
senior pre-law student from Roger Revelle College, told the Guardian.
Although switching to an 
electronic platform always presents 
the possibility of hacking, Thomas 
is not concerned about cheating.
“There will be extremely rigid 
measures against cheating in place, ” Thomas said. “Tablets will be controlled by a centralized computer that will send and retract content as needed. Once a student 
leaves the room, the testing content 
will become inaccessible. ” 
The final exam that will use the 
standard pencil and paper format 
will be administered in June 2019, 
after which the Samsung tablets will be integrated into the testing process, with the occasional pencil and paper test. 
Another change resulting from 
the transition to the tablets is that students will no longer be able to cancel their scores after taking the 
exam, with the exception of those CAMPUS
BY Abigail Staggemeier
Staff Writer
State Superintendent Candidate Hosts Town Hall on College Affordability
Katie the Corgi, beloved member of the UCSD community, passed away recently. Kyoka Matsunaga // UCSD Guardian
This past week, the American Federation of 
County, State, and Municipal Employees Local 
3299, the largest employee union in the University 
of California, released a number of press releases leading up to the confirmation of a three-day 
strike. Scheduled for Oct. 23-25 by the University’s 
patient care technical workers and coalition of sympathizing parties, the protest will take place at 
all UC Medical Centers. 
The UC patient care technical workers of 
AFSCME Local 3299, which represents a total of 
24,000 service and patient care workers on UC campuses and hospitals, approved of the decision 
by a 96-percent margin. Confirmed participation 
also included that of UC service workers, professional healthcare, research and technical 
workers represented by UPTE-CW A.
This is the second state-wide strike of year. The 
first protest took place in May, when 9,000 UC service workers and more than 50,000 AFSCME 
members united to speak out against the UC system’ outsourcing practices and the rise in the 
socioeconomic disparity of many of the workers who often are from marginalized communities.
AFSCME Local 3299 President Kathryn 
Lybarger spoke out on the prevalence of this 
concern.
“When the UC outsources these jobs, [it is] 
eliminating what were once career ladders into the middle-class for women and people of color,... [which] is in major conflict with the University’s 
mission of serving as an engine of economic 
mobility for all Californians, ” Lybarger said.
AFSCME Local 3299 decisions leading up to 
last week’s vote come after a series of ongoing legal disputes and negotiations regarding the 
University’s unilateral implementation of labor 
policies. 
Meanwhile, the Public Employment Relations 
Board, a quasi-judicial agency that adjudicates disputes between public employee unions and most public employers, is mitigating the discussion 
of the two formally filed complaints — referencing 
the June 27 Janus ruling. Directed to the state Public Employment Relations Board,  the union 
alleges the University to stymie access to data on By Rebeca Camacho      Senior staff WriterUC SYSTEM
UC Workers Vote to Strike in Late OctoberPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
A GUIDE TO VOTING 
IN THE MIDTERMS
Everything 
students need 
to know about 
fulfilling their 
civic duty this 
November.
LIBRARIAN  UNION  
LIFESTYLE  PLA YLISTSContract  Negotiations
Fresh   New  MixesOpinion,  Page   4
Lifestyle, Page 11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “When it comes to 
love, game theorists 
are clearly the true 
experts. If women 
wish to follow the 
game theorists’ advice, 
they should focus 
their search in male-
dominated fields, 
where they are able 
to be more selective 
and have greater 
demands. ”MONDAY
 H 77 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 60
TUESDAY
H 74 L 59
THURSDAY
H 73 L 61
EDITOR LETTER............4
SUSPIRIA......................9
VENOM........................10
NEW MUSIC................12
D1 RENOVATIONS......15ADMINISTRATION
Suzanne Golshanara
Love
 PAGE 4The panel featured representatives of student leadership from UCSD and SDSU, as well UCSD administrators.
BY Tyler Faurot
News Editor 
See LSAT,  page 3 See TOWN HALL,  page 3See STRIKE  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
FLIP FLOP By Andrew Diep
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Check out Fingerprints on Soundcloud to hear all of 
Tyler’s worst hits.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin, Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Asiyah Syed, Darren Lam,
Rani Snankar, Hakyung Yun
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Tuesday, October 9
1:13 a.m. Marijuana ContactOdor of marijuana. Checks OK.
12:34 p.m. Injury
Solo skateboarding accident. Transported to hospital.1:41 p.m. Welfare CheckParents received strange text messages from daughter and threats of 
suicide. Checks OK.
3:42 p.m. Citizen ContactRequest to speak with officer regarding verbal disturbance with a male motorist who was driving aggressively. Service provided.5:39 p.m. Stalking
Last week a male entered the reporting party’s apartment and began 
talking to her and refused to leave. Same subject followed RP today. Report taken.6:08 p.m. Injury
Solo skateboarding accident. Transported to hospital.
9:27 p.m. Suicide AttemptReferred to Other Agency ‐ Mecca Sheriff Department.
10:47 p.m. BurglaryMale suspect stole female underwear from unattended dryers 
approximately three to four times, loss $223.00. Report taken.
Wednesday, Oc tobe r 10
12:00 p.m. Battery
Reporting party stated he and his supervisor were in a verbal altercation, 
when supervisor pushed him. Report taken.6:45 p.m. Petty TheftUnknown suspect(s) stole a cell phone from men’s restroom, loss $400. Report taken.
7:31 p.m. Fire Alarm
Alarm malfunctioning. Referred to Other UCSD Department8:11 p.m. Welfare Check
Per MTS dispatch, bus driver advised that a passenger on the bus stated someone is chasing him. Passenger is refusing to get off the bus. Unable to 
locate.
9:48 p.m. Noise Disturbance / Alcohol ContactResident assistant contacted residence for loud voices and observed the presence of alcohol. Referred to Student Conduct.
11:26 p.m. Fire
Resident placed plastic plate inside oven causing small flames. Report taken.11:32 p.m. Missing PersonReporting party has not seen her roommate since the morning and 
roommate is not returning calls or text messages, Service provided.
Thursday, October 11
2:00 a.m. Petty Theft
Unknown suspect stole a wallet, loss $112.00. Report taken.
10:14 a.m. Injury Student fell off skateboard and hit his head. Transported to hospital10:59 a.m. Fraud Reporting party scammed out of $2,800.00 via Facebook. Referred to other 
agency ‐ San Diego Police Department.
9:11 p.m. Fraud
Subject possibly using other people’s credit cards to order food through DoorDash. Report taken.
9:56 p.m. Medical Aid
Male stated he has been feeling ill the last couple of days after ingesting marijuana. Transported to hospital.
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
new hires in violation of AB 119, and 
discouraging union membership in 
violation of SB 866. 
John de los Angeles, AFSCME’s 
communications director said that the UC system recently proposed 
its most updated offer to AFSCME’s 3299’s patient care workers in a similar version to the one addressed 
to the union’s service workers last 
spring. 
This offer, rejected by service 
workers, alloted a 3-percent wage raise instead of the 6 percent pushed 
by union workers to all positions 
involving patient care and a prorated payment of $750. AFSCME 3299 is 
still fighting for a freeze on health 
care premiums and job security against the risk of outsourcing its jobs to private contracting 
companies and the consequential 
loss of full-time benefits. 
“By ignoring the well-founded 
concerns of its frontline workforce, [the] UC [system] is eroding the quality of service that we provide to students, patients, and communities 
that depend on us,” Monica De 
Leon said in a communique issued 
on Oct. 12. De Leon is the vice 
president of AFSCME Local 3299’s Patient Care Technical Unit. homeless and hungry, and that’s just 
the way it is. ’” 
Siegel-Singh, in her discussion 
of housing insecurity, pointed out 
that for students, these issues are 
aggravated because they are “much more vulnerable. ”
“The issue of homelessness 
mirrors that in our communities, ” 
Thurmond said. “We’re seeing a 
rise in homelessness, and people 
spending more than 50 percent of 
their income on housing. There’s 
an opportunity for cities to work 
with universities to build shared, 
affordable housing for students 
and working members of the community. ” 
As Thurmond had stated earlier 
in the evening, “Eleven percent of students at the [California State University system] have reported being homeless at least once. About 
42 percent of students at the CSU 
have reported experiencing food insecurity, and I’ve heard that the number is up to fifty percent at 
the UC, and about forty percent at community colleges. 5 percent homeless at the UC, 11 percent at the CSU and 25 percent at community colleges. I’m sure that’s 
understated and we need to do 
better at identifying that. ” “Right now as it stands, ” Seigel-
Singh said, “students contribute more to the University of California’s core budget than the state of 
California does. ” 
According to a UC budgets 
summary, the largest source of 
general funds for the UC is Non-
resident Supplemental Tuition.
Thurmond responded to 
Seigel-Singh, stating, “ That’s an 
embarrassment. That’s a trend that 
we have to reverse. ”
Hannah Holder, news editor for 
The California Aggie at UC Davis, 
asked about the salary increases 
for top UC o fficials while contract 
negotiations have stalled for union 
workers.
Thurmond was critical of the UC 
system’s hidden accounts turned 
up in a recent audit, as well as the practice of subcontracting labor. 
“It’s outrageous, ” Thurmond said 
in his reply to Holder’s question. “I’ve said directly to [UC President Janet] Napolitano, ‘You don’t cut 
people’s salaries and then give huge 
balloon payments to administrators. ’ Where I come from, when you experience tough times, that means that everybody experiences tough 
times. ” 
“We’re closely aligned with the folks at [American Federation 
of State, County, and Municipal Employees] 3299. The UC [system] 
continues to contract out jobs, 
which ends up costing [it] more. 
Those savings to keep services in-
house could be used to o ffset the 
cost for students. I’ll continue to 
take the stance against contracting 
out labor. ”
Throughout the evening, 
Thurmond encouraged students to 
email his campaign with ideas and 
suggestions to address the various 
issues laid out in the town hall. 
“I don’t want this to be a one-
time conversation but an ongoing 
conversation about what we can 
change, ” Thurmond said.
Readers can send their 
suggestions to tony@tonythurmond.
com. 
Thurmond is endorsed by 
California Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democratic Party, and California’s teachers, nurses, and firefighters. If elected to be state 
superintendent, Thurmond would 
serve on both the CSU Board of Trustees as well as the UC Board of Regents.
Kaplan to Students: Plan to Test by June to 
Avoid Complications
▶ LSAT , from page 1
Abigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.eduStudent Representatives Bring Up Concerns about Affordability for Thurmond
▶ TOWN HALL , from page 1
Tyler Faurot  news@ucsdguardian.eduRebeca Camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.eduWorkers Rejected an Offer From the UC System
▶ STRIKE , from page 1
sitting for the test in July when 
it is first administered digitally. Currently, students are able to cancel 
their scores in the six calendar days 
following the LSAT.  
Despite Thomas’s assurances to 
test-takers that the transition should 
not be daunting, Kaplan’s official 
statement advised, “Because there is always some uncertainty with a test change of this magnitude, our advice is to make every reasonable 
effort to test by June 2019, but no 
later than July 2019. ”  
Though the change in testing protocol may seem imposing to test-takers at first, Kaplan representatives believe that the 
new format will “allow for a more 
consistent test-taking experience for students and should allow scores to be in students’ hands faster, which 
are both positive developments. ”
GOOD LUCK
ON MIDTERMS!
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Checking Out: 
Support the 
Librarians 
in their 
Demand for 
Better Labor 
ConditionsWhen I started as a 
freshman in Eleanor 
Roosevelt College at UC 
San Diego in 1998, I knew I wanted to be an ecologist. Being from New Jersey, I was excited by all the opportunities an ecologist would 
have living next to the ocean, desert, 
and mountains of San Diego. UCSD 
is also well known for its science, 
technology, engineering, and math 
education, so I knew I was in the 
right place.
During the first week of classes, 
I remember walking down Library 
Walk and registering to vote in 
California with my suitemates. 
How exciting it was to be living in 
a state that cared so much about 
the environment and being able to 
proudly use my voice as a STEM 
student in a University of California school. The first time we voted that 
year was in November to elect a new governor for California. We walked 
over to Price Center and voted 
before class, exercising our civic rights and duties. It felt powerful to 
vote together as a group and share in 
democracy with each other.  
Voting is the way that we decide, 
as a country and a community, what kind of laws we want and who should be in our government representing us. As an ecologist, I see the impacts 
of elections in policies that affect 
desert ecosystems, endangered species, and keeping our oceans healthy and clean. 
At UCSD in 2017, 95 percent 
of undergraduates received degrees in the engineering, math, and the natural and social sciences. Research 
has shown that STEM students 
vote less than other majors, with 
education majors making up the  greatest percentage of voters. Why is 
this? It has been argued that STEM majors see less of a connection 
between their vote and the direct 
effect on their community. Arts and 
humanities majors, on the other hand, vote frequently, are involved in social activism, and believe their vote can affect their community. As 
a predominantly STEM university, 
the UCSD community needs to show it cares by coming out to vote.
This is a year when high school 
and college students, women, and people of color are turning out in record numbers to make our voices 
heard. At UCSD, approximately 
71 percent of the undergraduate student body are students of color. 
Our university community can 
make a huge impact if we all vote. STEM is not just about science, it 
is about people too. We are women, 
immigrants, people of color, and other marginalized groups that 
face challenges as scientists and 
as humans. Let’s make history and show that STEM majors care about 
civic engagement and our university 
community. Few will leave UC San Diego without taking advantage of its library resources at some point in their studies here, be it for a student’s report or a professor’s research. Geisel Library’s 7 
million texts and innumerable digitized additions lay so easily within reach that it is easy to forget the librarians who spent hours cataloging all those entries. UCSD librarians are members of the American Federation of Teachers, another union in the middle of contract negotiations with the notoriously miserly UC system. 
Librarians are an essential part of university sta ff whoenable the 
free exchange of and easy access to academic resources. They organize 
and catalog texts, preserve others by digitizing them, and teach students to discern reputable sources. Librarians as academic sta ff 
even engage in their own research. The UC system does not dispute 
their function, but in the bargaining sessions that have taken place since April, it has also rejected many of the changes that UC-AFT has put forward as vital to librarians and to their universities. 
UC-AFT , among other issues, organizes around three major 
complaints: academic freedom, pay increases that do not keep up 
with the cost of living, and temporary librarian status. Though the 
UC system posits academic freedom as central to its mission but only 
extends this luxury toward faculty and students. The UC system does 
not classify librarians as faculty but as academic sta ff. So, even though 
librarians connect professors and students to necessary academic resources and conduct their own research, they are still under the thumb of university administrators. 
If the UC system only wanted librarians to establish and update 
databases, a call for academic freedom by a librarian might seem like just a whim. However, the university encourages librarians to pursue “professional development” by way of research, publications, and presentations of their independent findings. In fact, professional 
development outside of their library duties factors into promotions. The UC system is trying the get the best of both worlds: It wants the 
reputation that comes from comprehensive libraries and frequent publications, but it also wants to stamp out unfavorable findings. 
Librarians’ classi fication as non-faculty academic sta ff is just a 
convenient ploy to control the content that comes out of its sta ff — a 
hypocritical goal for research institutions. 
The publications and presentations that the UC system so carefully 
pores over when considering promotions also highlight the egregiously meager salaries paid to librarians. Library sta ff must pay the brunt of 
the costs for attending conferences and presenting findings. As with 
other workers on campus, they o ffer about 3-percent increases in 
salary each year. However, this increase already fails to keep up with the cost of living in major California cities, especially when librarians are expected to pay out-of-pocket for professional development. 
Librarians in the UC system are not even paid the same as 
librarians in other school systems. In the California State University system, librarians are paid 25 percent more than librarians in the UC system. Adjusting for the cost of living, Y ale University librarians make 30 percent more, University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign librarians earn 64 percent more, and University of Michigan in Ann Arbor librarians earn 91 percent more. The positions also require that 
an applicant has a master’s degree, so the current terms o ffered by the 
UC system would leave many librarians underwater. 
For many librarians, the work they do will last signi ficantly 
longer than they will; UC-AFT also opposes the temporary status 
See LIBRARIAN, page 5
Marriage is supposed to be a dreamy, romantic 
fairy tale where everyone meets their true love 
and lives happily ever after, but fairy tales should 
be left for storybooks. Chances are that if there 
was a Prince Charming, there would be more than just one eligible fair maiden lining up to be his true love. In reality, the most desirable mates are coveted by many, but never fear, for 
one can still attain a desirable partner. It merely 
requires a strong strategy. Research in the field of game theory has proven that in order to get the best matches for themselves, women need to 
be the ones initiating relationships, and college is 
certainly the most statistically advantageous place to do so. 
The science of decision-making, game 
theory uses mathematical models to determine the optimal strategy for a player to take in a competitive game. In 1962, economists David Gale and Lloyd Shapley wrote a paper called “College Admissions and the Stability of Marriage” where 
they discussed strategies that would allow for 
stable assignments in both the college admissions market and the marriage market. With stable assignments, there would be no case where “a man and woman … are not married to each other but 
prefer each other to their actual mates. ” In other 
words, no man or woman would able to make themselves better off by trying to find a match outside of the stable assignments. These assignments are reached through a series 
of proposals, in which each man proposes to his highest ranked partner. She then rejects all but 
her favorite proposal. Every man who was rejected 
then proposes to his second choice. She decides who to pick between her new proposals and her favorite proposal from the previous round and rejects all others. This process continues until 
everyone is matched with a partner. 
In “Dear Undercover Economist: Priceless 
Advice on Money, Work, Sex, Kids, and Life’s 
Other Challenges, ” economist Tim Harford 
explains that the “algorithm works equally well 
if women do the proposing and men do the rejecting. ” However, Harford makes it clear that “out of all the stable assignments that exist, the one 
where men propose is the very worst for women 
and the very best for men. ” In order to get the best match for themselves, women need to realize they are playing a game and to win, they need to be the ones making the first move. 
Making the best strategic decisions requires 
being fully aware of one’s circumstances and taking advantage of them. Evolutionary psychologist Thomas Pollet and behavioral scientist Daniel Nettle  found that matchmaking was based on far 
more than romance. Rather, supply and demand 
ruled the day. In “Driving a hard bargain: sex ratio and male marriage success in a historical US population, ” Pollet and Nettle found that women in historically majority-male regions were able to demand men of higher economic ranking and social status. Because of the scarcity of women, 
men were forced to “offer greater commitment 
to careers promising economic rewards, greater fidelity, and greater investment in children than they would when the sex ratio was neutral or female biased. ” 
Of course, a modern day version of a dating 
market with a significant gender gap is the popular dating app Tinder. In fact, the researchers of a paper called “ A First Look at User Activity on 
Tinder” acknowledge that “[w]omen tend to be 
highly selective in whom they like, leading to a starvation of matches for men. ” Likewise, women in male-dominated majors can afford to be more 
selective when it comes to choosing a partner 
and can ultimately demand a partner of a higher caliber than they otherwise could have. 
When it comes to love, game theorists are 
clearly the true experts. If women wish to follow 
the game theorists’ advice, they should focus 
their search in male-dominated fields, where they are able to be more selective and have greater demands. Women then need to be the ones taking initiative and asking their potential 
partners out. Love may be a battlefield, but with 
a few mathematically tried-and-tested strategies, women can avoid settling and be sure to succeed in securing the best romantic partner possible.
Game, Set, Match: Economic Strategies for Winning LoveLetter to 
the Editor: STEM 
Majors 
Need to Vote  OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Adriana  Barrios
By: Chris Robertson // Senior Sta ff WriterBy: Dr. Anjali Kumar //
ERC, Class of 2002
By: Suzanne Golshanara // Senior Sta ff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
assigned to a growing number of 
librarians. Temporary status only exacerbates the existing problems facing librarians. Paying out-of-pocket to present at conferences for the sake of professional development is pointless if the librarian will not be around long enough for these eff orts to push them 
up the pay scale. Temporary status also leaves librarians in a constant state of job insecurity, which puts their welfare into question and ensures that research will always take a backseat to the hunt for the next position. 
Job insecurity is not a new concept 
within the UC system. Last May, AFSCME 3299 — the local chapter of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees that contains many UC system employees — hosted a series of strikes. Among many complaints was the outsourcing of labor to cheaper, freelance workers 
who did not demand bene fits. Even 
during the strikes against this blatant 
disregard for workers’ rights, the UC system enlisted temporary workers to fill the places of strikers. So, job 
insecurity is a tactic that the UC 
system readily uses when it is harder to 
negotiate with workers. 
On Nov. 9, UC-AFT will enter 
its 11th bargaining session at 
UCSD, which will accompany a 
demonstration. It is imperative that 
students participate in this protest, but not just because students take advantage of the work librarians do 
on a regular basis. Students focus too 
much on the services available to them and not nearly enough on the people 
providing those services. Students want their residence halls cleaned without consideration for the conditions of the 
custodial sta ff. Students want to harass 
teaching assistants about a couple 
points without questioning why TA ’s are not allowed to unionize. Students want the easiest access to academic 
resources without concern for the 
people who make those resources 
available. Even though students spend only a few years on this campus, detaching their experiences from the 
labor disputes that pop up during our 
time here only means that the workers 
we leave behind are worse o ff by the 
time we graduate. Librarians are an integral factor in the academic success 
of students and faculty. We all stand to 
suffer when they do.  
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By Anthony Tran
▶ LIBRARIAN, from page 4
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
features@ucsdguardian.org
The United States holds elections more often than almost any other 
nation in the world, giving U.S. voters ample opportunities to keep their government in check. It is surprising, then, that many 
still find voting a complex and confusing process and that many opt not to vote at all. This sentiment is especially common among younger voters — a troubling statistic given that the youth are quite literally our future. To help 
streamline this process, the UCSD Guardian has worked with the Student 
Organized Voter Access Committee, a committee within the Associated Students of UCSD External Affairs Office, to put together this simple guide to voting in the 2018 General Election, with links to useful tools at the 
bottom. 
In addition, A.S. Council is hosting an ongoing voter drive to help UC 
San Diego students get registered for the election. “Our voter registration 
drive this year has included several different phases, ” A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Caroline Siegel-Singh said. “The first consisted of student 
registration at move-in, during which we netted approximately 1,200 
newly registered voters from the on-campus student population. We have been tabling in [Geisel Library], as well as at various campus events for the past two weeks, in an effort to register students as they settle into Fall 
Quarter. ” Over the next two weeks, A.S. 
Council plans to go door-to-door across several college residences to register any remaining students who did not register during move-in. 
WHAT is the General Election?
The 2018 General Election will decide 
who controls the House of Representatives and the Senate. We will not be voting on a 
president this year, but it is easy to forget 
how important the House and Senate are to our government. A clear example would be none other than the recent controversy surrounding the ascension of Judge Brett 
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, which 
came down to a very close Senate split. If just two senators had voted differently, he might not have been confirmed to this lifetime appointment. Congress 
makes just as many important decisions as the president, if not more. In 
addition to members of Congress, many state government positions will be up for election (see the “Who?” section of this guide). This election is important for students, too — voting elevates officials who seek to address and advocate for student issues such as federal funding for public schools 
or financial aid. When students do not elect someone to represent their best 
interests, they allow these issues to be ignored.
WHEN will the elections happen?
The United States midterm elections will happen on Nov. 6, 2018. Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. The deadline to register to vote in California for the upcoming midterms is Oct. 22, 2018. The last day to register in California for an absentee or mail-in ballot is Oct. 30, 2018.If you miss the 
registration deadline, you can still vote provisionally at the County Elections 
Office.
WHERE can you vote?
In additional to polling places around La Jolla and San Diego, each 
residential college will have a designated voting place, and there will be a provisional voting room as well. Students will be able to vote on campus at these designated locations on Nov. 6:
• Roger Revelle College: Conference Room C
• John Muir College: Mariposa Room
• Thurgood Marshall College: Angela’s Place
• Earl Warren College: Y osemite Room
• Eleanor Roosevelt College: Middle Earth
• Sixth College: Dogg House
• The Village at Torrey Pines: Conference Room, Building 2
• Mesa Nueva Graduate Housing: The Lounge, One Miramar Street
• Price Center West: Green Table Room (provisional polling only)
It is important to note that 
you can only vote at the assigned precinct written on your voter registration card. Voters are assigned to specific precincts 
based on their addresses and 
representative districts and will be unable to cast a standard ballot at any other polling place. In 
cases of emergencies only, voters 
can cast a provisional ballot in a different polling place, but this is highly discouraged. 
On provisional voting, SOVAC 
says: A provisional ballot is essentially an emergency method of voting if you cannot find your 
polling place, cannot make it to your polling place in time, or are not on the 
voter roll at your assigned polling place. It allows voters registered within 
the county to cast a ballot in a polling place that is not their own. That ballot is then held for several days after the election to ensure that the voter did not already cast a standard ballot and then is counted as soon as that determination is made. Unfortunately, at this point many of the candidates 
in close elections may have already conceded, so provisional ballots can 
have a muted effect in electing officials, though they will always count in Everything 
students need to know about fulfilling their 
civic duty this November.
By Cailin Liu // 
Contributing 
WriterA Guide to 
Voting in the 
2018 General 
Election
SeeVOTING , page 7
“From the federal to county level, 
one vote affects every single person 
under that jurisdiction. Regardless of 
where your political ideology falls, the 
consequences of voting or not voting 
could be drastic. The decisions made 
by Congress affect the lives of everyone 
living in the United States. ”
ILLUSTRATION BY ALLYSON LLACUNAFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Voting in the 
2018 General ▶ VOTING , from page 6
ballot initiatives.
WHY should you vote ?
From the federal to county level, one vote affects 
every single person under that jurisdiction. Regardless 
of where your political ideology falls, the consequences of voting or not voting could be drastic. The decisions 
made by Congress affect the lives of everyone living in 
the United States. Locally elected officials also make 
decisions that affect voters in more immediate ways. For 
example, many people might not pay attention to who 
the district attorney is — until they have an encounter with the law. One district attorney candidate could choose to prosecute drug charges with more leniency 
than another, and it is up to voters to decide which 
values they expect their local government to uphold and how they want to be treated by the government. 
Further corroborating this point, Siegel-Singh told 
the Guardian, “[Voting] has a direct impact not only 
in choosing those who write our laws, but [it] can 
also directly influence legislation through the ballot proposition and initiative process. This November, there will be several key issues for voters to decide 
on, many of which directly affect UCSD students, 
including several affordable housing measures and one of the closest congressional elections in the country, the CA-49th (which includes the UCSD campus). ” 
WHO can you vote for?
On a federal level, all 435 seats in the House of 
Representatives will be up for election. UCSD is located within District 49, which has been represented by Republican Darrell Issa since 2003. House seats are up 
for election every two years, but Rep. Issa will not be 
running for re-election this time. Within the Senate, the state of California is represented by Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris — both Democrats. Each state has two senators, elected in staggered six-year terms. As 
Sen. Harris was elected in the 2016 election, only Sen. 
Feinstein will be running for re-election this November. 
On a state level, Californians will head to the polls 
to cast votes for governor, secretary of state, attorney general, treasurer, controller, lieutenant governor, 
superintendent of public instruction, and commissioner 
of insurance.
On a local level, California residents will also be 
voting for state assembly member and some may be 
electing a new senator to the state legislator depending 
on the district. Similarly to the U.S. Congress, the 
California State Legislature is also a bicameral system, consisting of the California State Senate and California State Assembly. The State Senate consists of one representative from each of 40 Senate districts, whereas 
the Assembly draws a representative from each of 80 
districts. UCSD falls within District 39 in the State Senate, represented by Toni Atkins, and District 78 in the State Assembly, represented by Todd Gloria. 
Only voters in even-numbered Senate districts will be 
voting for a new representative this time around. So San Diego, in District 39, will not, but all seats in the State Assembly will be up for grabs.
HOW can you vote?
In order to vote, you must be registered. To register 
online, you need a form of California-issued ID or driver license; otherwise, you must register using a paper form. 
SOVAC recommends that all students registering to 
vote request a ballot by mail, as this gives more flexibility in the way you cast your ballot. Furthermore, the committee highly recommends that all students register with their San Diego address — in California, anyone 
residing here for college is considered a California 
resident for election purposes. You may choose to vote in your home state if you wish — just make sure 
you will not have to return home to physically cast 
your ballot. Again, if casting your ballot in person you 
must use your assigned polling place, and only voters 
registered in San Diego County may cast provisional 
ballots at other polling places within the county. 
A tip from A.S. Council to students living on 
campus: the correct on-campus address is 9450 Gilman 
Drive, La Jolla, CA 92092, San Diego County, and you 
will need to list your mailbox number in the question boxes reserved for unit number. 
Make sure you know which address you are registered 
to. You can only vote in your registered precinct, so it 
is of the utmost importance to check, especially if you 
have moved or changed addresses recently. Check your voter status here: https://voterstatus.sos.ca.gov/
This website makes it easy to apply for your mail 
in or absentee ballot by mail: https://www.vote.org/absentee-ballot/california/
This website tells you your California state assembly 
member,senator, and what districts you are in based on your registered address. It also provides information on 
what your California legislature has been up to, what 
bills have been passed or introduced lately, and when the legislature is in session — it’s helpful for staying informed: https://openstates.org/find_your_legislator/ 
Cailin Liu   cal112@ucsd.edu
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@ILLUSTRATION BY OF DAVID JUAREZ
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN8                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. Look for 
our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more details about the 
world-class care happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com.When news came out that Dario 
Argento’s 1977 classic “Suspiria” was receiving a 2018 remake, 
horror fans around the world rejoiced with giddy anticipation. Director Luca Guadagnino of “Call Me by Your Name” gives Argento’s 
original “girl attends Berlin dance academy 
run by malevolent witches” tale a refreshing, yet polarizing retelling that attempts to flesh out the original’s plot points to achieve a more complex lore, interwoven with post-war politics. If it seems like a lot, it’s because it is.
Guadagnino’s “Suspiria” is a cinematic 
feat with an atmosphere on par with recent 
horror films like “The VVitch. ” Noticeably 
more somber than the lurid fuchsia palette of the original, the 2018 version’s muted tone is appropriately accompanied by a fantastic 
soundtrack composed by Radiohead frontman 
Thom Yorke, completely opposite to Italian band Goblin’s progressive rock in the original. It’s a fitting departure from the campy set design and unconventional use of sound that 
made the 1977 version so remarkable — 
that kind of gaudy imagery and cacophonous sound editing would be unimaginable for any major film today. 
The six-act film begins with an 
unhinged, young woman named Patricia, in an unfortunate performance by Chloë Grace Moretz, who divulges her elaborate conspiracy of a witch coven embedded in the 
hierarchy of the renowned Helena Markos 
Dance Company to her psychiatrist Dr. Jozef Klemperer. In an elaborate hoax of the film’s production, Klemperer is credited for being 
played by a fictitious Lutz Ebersdorf, but 
was recently revealed to be Tilda Swinton in a secondary role. Klemperer soon invests himself in Patricia’s subsequent disappearance, which coincides with the arrival of protagonist Susie Bannion (Dakota Johnson), a zealous 
dance prodigy who captures the attention of 
famed teacher Madame Blanc (also played by Swinton). Amidst the dancers’ anxieties with Patricia’s disappearance, Susie successfully 
replaces Patricia’s former role as lead in the 
company’s original production called “Volk. ” 
“Suspiria” manages to contain itself up 
until its bloodbath of a final act with a relative lack of terror (save for one deeply unnerving 
scene of body horror choreography), primarily 
focusing on Susie and Blanc’s intimate relationship and burdening itself with several unsuccessful subplots. Against the backdrop 
of the “German Spring, ” the film attempts to 
make several connections between the coven and their likely involvement with the tension of this political moment, but these suggestions are ultimately unfulfilling. In a similar fashion, the film includes a drawn-out arc involving Klemperer’s personal reconciliation with the loss of his wife during the war that 
feels wholly unfitting and at odds with the 
material at hand. Guadagnino manages to blow all of this out of mind with the film’s final act, which one can only describe as an 
“Eyes Wide Shut” orgy that takes place in the 
lower strata of Dante’s “Inferno. ” The scene is done in complete excess, but unlike the film’s extraneous subplots, it’s actually enjoyable- Guadagnino produces a stellar sequence of 
pure, senseless fun that feels only appropriate 
for an Argento remake. 
Led by a star-studded cast, including 
Alek Wek (whose character, Miss Millius, 
is disappointingly quiet), and a cameo 
appearance from Jessica Harper, who played Susie in the original, Guadagnino’s “Suspiria” is beautifully acted. There’s an unsurprising star performance from Swinton and an even 
greater one from rising model-actress Mia 
Goth. Swinton’s performance as dance teacher Madame Blanc is exquisitely restrained and elegant. However, it’s Goth’s performance as 
Patricia’s close friend Sara, who steals the 
spotlight. Goth, who stars in the upcoming sci-fi flick “High Life, ” gives a sensational performance as her character Sara unravels the secrets behind the academy and Patricia’s disappearance alongside Klemperer. 
“Suspiria” is not an easy film to watch. 
It’s a slow-burner built around an oppressive atmosphere and lacks the obvious scares of the original; not to mention, it features some 
of the most stomach-churning sequences 
in recent film memory. Additionally, for moviegoers the film is difficult to assess, due to its suffering from a cumbersome script that attempts to fit in too much narrative. In the 
end, despite these flaws, this film is a fantastic 
spectacle of horror. “Suspiria” is a must-watch for fans and non-fans alike. 
 
— Justin   Nguyen
Staff Writer
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKENDA&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
A house silently engulfed in flames in 
the middle of the night — that was the lingering, last shot of “Better 
Call Saul” season three. Now, over a year later, viewers finally get to see the aftermath of the incident, which has left the show’s main character, James “Jimmy” McGill (Bob 
Odenkirk), in utter disarray, despite his best 
attempts to mask it. As a prequel series to “Breaking Bad, ” “Better Call Saul” follows Jimmy’s evolution from a struggling attorney into his much darker, dirtier “Breaking Bad” persona, Saul Goodman.
What may have been an easy cash grab 
after the success of “Breaking Bad” has actually become an entirely different series. While “Breaking Bad” is flashier and grittier, “Better Call Saul” is more than content to slow 
down and tell its own story of a well-meaning 
lawyer who ends up cutting one too many corners. In season four, Jimmy’s evolution into Saul seems more inevitable than ever before. Jimmy’s inner turmoil, especially in regards to his search for a job and his dysfunctional relationship with his brother, Chuck (Michael 
McKean), manifests itself in his morally 
dubious actions throughout the season. His schemes and lies, whether for good or for 
bad, will undoubtedly reap repercussions for 
him and his fragile relationship with his partner and fellow lawyer, Kim Wexler (Rhea Seehorn).
This season, Kim quickly climbs the 
ladder to success — she joins a new law firm, continues work with Mesa Verde Bank and Trust, and even tackles pro bono cases. Meanwhile, Jimmy further strays from being 
the “good guy” — his law license is under 
suspension, he sells drop-phones to criminals, and he isn’t afraid to steal, con, and threaten others to get what he wants. The ups and 
downs of their relationship are executed with 
Emmy nomination-worthy performances by Odenkirk and Seehorn. From the drastic lengths they go to support each other to the little remarks that further divide them, the 
riveting dynamic between Kim and Jimmy 
burns slowly but deeply into the emotional core of the show.
The other half of the season deals with 
more “Breaking Bad” esque activities, such as the drug cartel competition between Gustavo Fring (Giancarlo Esposito) and the Salamanca family. New yet recognizable criminals make an appearance and liven up 
the show with “Breaking Bad” Easter eggs. 
Season regulars Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks) and Nacho Varga (Michael Mando) find themselves too tangled up in the cartel 
conflict for their own good. While some may 
dismiss the addition of the drug cartel business as the show’s attempt to entertain passionate “Breaking Bad” fans, the showrunners have a greater purpose in mind. One of the recurring motifs of “Better Call Saul” is what someone 
would do for the people they love. Like Jimmy 
struggling to not lose Kim, both Nacho and Mike face difficult choices and consequences 
due to their involvement with the drug cartel, 
all in the name of protecting their families. While their storylines in season four run in less engaging and exciting ways than Jimmy 
and Kim’s, there never fails to be driving 
motivations behind all their scenes and dialogue that prevent them from being simply “filler. ” 
Following “Better Call Saul” is like 
watching a runaway train and waiting for the inevitable wreck as this season hurtles the show closer to the timeline of “Breaking Bad” than ever. The anticipation for the “end, ” 
namely the formation of Saul Goodman, is 
a concept both exciting and dreadful. “His formation affects the rest of the characters; his appearance in “Breaking Bad” comes with the disappearance of many current “Better 
Call Saul” characters, but don’t assume that 
“Better Call Saul” is simply a side addition to a pop culture phenomenon. With jaw-dropping twists, gut-wrenching cliffhangers, and a tear-
inducing finale, season four clearly proves 
the show’s capability of garnering its own, rightfully-earned acclaim as one of the most intriguing character studies on television. Like Jimmy McGill, “Better Call Saul” defies 
expectations.
—  Natalie Tran
Senior Staff Writer
TV   REVIEW
Better Call Saul
Created by   Vince Gilligan, Peter Gould
Starring  Bob Odenkirk, Rhea Seehorn, Jonathan Banks, Michael Mando
Aired   August 6, 2018 - October 8, 2018Ca
FILM   REVIEW
suspiriaPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Luca Guadagnino 
Starring   Chloe Grace Moretz, Tilda Swinton, Doris Hick
Release Date  October 26, 2018
Rated  RCBAs captivating and calculating as Saul Goodman himself, season four of 
“Better Call Saul” sees its characters closer than ever to “breaking bad. ”10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
Che Café was packed to the brim with 
flannel shirts, dagger-sharp winged eyeliner and the ever-ubiquitous dad 
hats on Oct. 10 as U.K. band Basement played a high-octane set to an enthusiastic crowd. Supported by California bands Elder Brother and Pllush, Basement played a sold-out show just two days ahead of the release of the band’s 
new album, “Beside Myself. ”
The night was notably pop-punk; in 
attendance was Ben Russin, drummer for the 
band Title Fight, who worked the Basement 
merchandise table, and Luke Granered, formerly of Better Off, filling in as guitarist for Elder Brother.
Basement opened the set with the new 
single “Disconnect” to a lukewarm response. 
It wasn’t until the band broke out a fan 
favorite, “Fading, ” that the crowd erupted into 
a cacophony of moshing, crowd surfing, and passionate collective singing. The rest of the evening was energetic and sweaty.
Basement’s sound is reminiscent of early 
grunge acts. Above a wall of distorted guitars, chunky basslines, and pounding drums, the lyrics are soaked in self-loathing and simmer with angst. This was perhaps most evident during the band’s song “Pine, ” when a good bulk of the crowd screamed the lyrics, “I hate myself, and that’s OK, ” back at vocalist 
Andrew Fischer in a near-perfect unison.
Others have compared Basements sound 
to “Jimmy Eat World” and “Nirvana, ” but if 
you ask the mates in the band they would 
be more humble in their self-description. 
As guitarists Ronan Crix and Alex Henery explained their band’s identity, “we’re like ‘introspective rock-indie. ’” 
Crix stated plainly, “You come to our 
shows, you’re going to have a good time. You’re not going to see any smoke and mirrors, it’s just us playing rock-and-roll music. ”
“Like four [of the five] of us play guitar so 
obviously a lot of our stuff will be very guitar-oriented, ” Henery said.
The last time the band was out on the west 
coast, Basement was opening for “The Front Bottoms. ” I asked the band members whether 
they felt more at home in high profile shows 
or more intimate settings like the Che. 
 “Being on support tours is pretty weird, ” 
Crix pointed out, “because the crowd’s not 
necessarily there to see us. ” 
“In some ways I prefer it, because the 
sound is really good, we have more space to 
move around on stage and do what we do, and I kind of like being able to play for people 
who’ve never seen us before” Henery added. 
“I feel like we do a good mix of smaller shows like this, I don’t think Basement’s ever going to just play massive shows. ”In chatting with guitarists Crix and Henery 
about their new album, we discussed the writing process that led to its creation.
“It wasn’t anything too different, it was 
more a natural progression, ” Henery explained. “We wanted to write the best Basement songs with the time given. We had so much support and so many resources from the label that we 
were able to explore more things. ”
“I’ve noticed us grow into our sound so 
much more since the last record, just from 
recording and writing sessions leading up to this one, ” Crix said.
“We feel pretty comfortable with our sound 
at this point, so we really started to focus on doing the best of what we do, ” Henery explained. “There are moments in the record 
where we sort of deviate into new territory, 
but it’s nothing too dangerous. We all felt truly on the same page, going into the studio. I’m really excited for people to hear this record as a whole. ”
Basement closed out its 13-song set with 
“Promise Everything, ” the title track of its previous album. Standing at the beginning of its next artistic chapter, Basement’s 
choice for a closing song served as a subtle 
acknowledgement of where the band has been and where it’s going.
“Beside Myself ” is available via Fueled by 
Ramen Records. 
—  Tyler Faurot
Contributing WriterU.K. Pop-punk band, Basement, brings a new, authentic sound to 
UC San Diego’s own punk venue. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  Che Café
Concert Date   October 10, 2018BasementPHOTO COURTESY OF LOSANGELES.OHMYROCKNESS.COM
CB+
“Venom” is a forgettable solo flick, leaving the audience with only a disturbing memory of the alien monster’s weirdly long tongue
In 2007, an amorphous, gooey, and 
extraterrestrial symbiote called Venom made his first big-screen appearance in 
the film “Spider-Man 3. ” He has been regarded as one of Marvel’s most titular antagonists and formidable foes, taking over several different humans to control and manifest in. However, 
this debut served injustice for the alien villain, 
as this movie bounced from subplot to subplot and essentially shoved him to the sidelines, much to many fans’ dismay. So when it was announced the movie “Venom” would hit 
theaters this fall, there was a tinge of hope that 
a stand-alone film would redeem this noxious anti-hero with the spotlight he deserves. Unfortunately, history repeated itself, and 
the film missed its mark, delivering a subpar 
plot tainted with dull, messy action and an inconsistent tone of humor and drama. 
The film opens with a spacecraft 
belonging to the bioengineering corporation 
Life Foundation, bringing four alien life-
forms back to Earth for lab testing. Leading the experiment, supergenius CEO and megalomaniac, Carlton Drake (Riz Ahmed), 
learns that these beings survive on foreign 
land when attached to specific human hosts. So he gratuitously begins to run human trials, using participants like guinea pigs to achieve symbiosis and risking the death of the human hosts who reject the connection. Enter Eddie Brock (Tom Hardy), an investigative journalist 
who discovers these corrupt methods through 
confidential emails and sets out with a gung-ho spirit to expose Carlton’s corporate evil. With the aid of Dora Skirth (Jenny Slate), 
a scientist who deviates from the heinous 
experiments, Eddie breaks into the research facility, only to be possessed by a dark, viscous specimen and to be given its enhancing powers. Successfully regulating symbiosis 
with his body, the ominous organism named 
Venom leeches onto Eddie, who devolves into madness while learning how to appease a permanent parasite that can read his entire 
psyche, including his thoughts and feelings. 
With another sentient creature linked to 
the main character’s mental and emotional 
state, viewers would think the film goes on to explore their rare bond using gradual, 
reciprocated understanding. However, 
“Venom” botches this opportunity, resulting in its lack of heart and sentiment. There is an absence of the connection between the two 
imperative pillars of the movie, Venom and 
Eddie. The film doesn’t take time to justify or develop their begrudgingly co-dependent relationship. So, their character arcs grow rashly and unrealistically, losing viewers’ investment of the narrative. Accordingly, it feels unusual when they begin to “act as 
one” later in the film because the audience 
hasn’t witnessed any on-screen development of their mutual trust. Even from the first scene, there is zero chemistry between the 
characters, which tarnishes the story’s “hook” 
with a banal and unengaging impression. Though both Hardy and Michelle Williams, who plays Anne Weying, are talented, big-name actors, their interactions as romantic 
partners and eventual exes feel cliche and 
jaded. Not to mention, their portrayals of their respective characters also lack nuance and charm, perhaps due to the ham-fisted 
script they had to muscle through. The core 
problem with “Venom” is that it forgets a basic tenet of cinematic worldbuilding: show, don’t tell. Since no depth emanates from these characters, the movie falls flat and comes off 
as ingenuine and dissatisfying. 
Although the film attempts to follow the 
Marvel Cinematic Universe’s light-hearted 
tone by providing snippy banter between 
Venom and Eddie, the early moments of 
Venom casually and playfully poking fun at Eddie feel out-of-character for the menacing creature. The majority of the jokes don’t land, feeling clunky or mishandled with the dark undercurrents of the movie. The movie has a confusing tone overall because it attempts to 
blend in too many different tones. In many 
instances, it jumps from a sullen mood to an immediate comedic vibe, which hampers the viewers from being fully immersed into the 
film’s atmosphere. There was great potential 
for exploring substantive themes through the more mature aspects of the narrative, such as Venom impermissibly encroaching Eddie’s private life or the two’s jarring-to-respectful 
relationship. Instead, the movie wedges 
unconvincing rapport and cringe-inducing one-liners in-between earnest moments and limp action scenes, making the entire movie 
feel one-dimensional and juvenile. 
“Venom” could have been a saving grace 
for its introduction in the infamous “Spider-
Man 3” or at least expanded on either Eddie’s or Venom’s cinematic origin. However, the 
tonal inconsistency and poorly fleshed-
out characters churn out a blockbuster that is not intriguing. It is merely a passable, insipid movie that can best be rated with an 
indifferent shrug.
— Ashley Chen
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Venom
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Ruben Fleischer 
Starring  Tom Hardy, Michelle Williams, Riz Ahmed, Scott Haze, Reid Scott
Release Date  October 5, 2018
Rated  PG-13CDLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Finding the right song for an occasion is 
sometimes hard to do. Lucky for you, we’ve 
handpicked our favorite songs and created five 
different playlists to match your every mood. 
Happy listening! 
Simp Session
For your inner Sam Smith. • Every song on “In The Lonely Hour” • “A l l  I  A s k”  b y  A d e l e
• “Liability” by Lorde
• “Jealous” by Labrinth 
• “Dancing On My Own” by Callum 
Scott
• “Fix You” by Coldplay
• “Happier” by Ed Sheeran
• “Incomplete” by James Bay
• “Gravity” by John Mayer
• “Back To December” by Taylor Swift 
• “T alking T o The Moon” by Bruno Mars
• “Say Something” by A Great Big World, 
Christina Aguilera 
• “Stay” by Rihanna
• “Better” by Khalid
• “Seventeen” by Alessia Cara
• “Hotline Bling” by Drake
• “From the Dining Table” by Harry 
Styles
• “I Can’t Make You Love Me” (Cover) 
by SOAK
• “Why” by Shawn Mendes
• “Somebody Else” by The 1975
• “Don’t Watch Me Cry” by Jorja Smith
• “Don’t Know Why”  by Norah Jones
• “Writer In The Dark” by Lorde
• “Make You Feel My Love” by Adele
• “Goodnight n Go” by Ariana Grande
• “Call Out My Name” by The Weeknd
• “In the Dark” by Alice Kristiansen 
(acoustic version)
• “Wicked Games” by Ursine Vulpine 
cover
• “Ribs” by Lorde
• “Lovely” by Billie Eilish ft. Khalid
• “A l l  I  Wa n t ”  b y  K o d a l i n e
• “The Truth Untold” by Bangtan Boys 
(BTS)
• “Bishop’s Knife Trick” by Fall Out Boy
• “Use Somebody” by Kings of Leon
Coffeeshop Jams 
Don’t study in silence! • “Ophelia” by The Lumineers • “Riptide” by Vance Joy
• “Home” by Edward Sharpe & the 
Magnetic Zeros 
• “Little Talks” by Of Monsters and Men• “Bloom” by The Paper Kites 
• “Heavy” by Birdtalker 
• “Sweet Disposition” by The Temper 
Trap
• “A n n a  S u n”  b y  WA L K  T H E  M O O N
• “Sedona” by Houndmouth
• “Shrike” by Hozier
• “Fear of Fear” by Passenger• “The Night W e Met” by Lord Huron
• “Tomorrow Never Came” by Lana Del Rey, Sean Ono Lennon
• Basically any Lizzie Grant-era Lana 
Del Rey (“ All Y ou Need, ” “Y ayo”)
• “Dazzle” by Wonder
• “Au t u m n  L o v e”  b y  T h o m a s  B e r g e r s e n
• “Ocean Eyes” by Billie Eilish
• “Get Free” by Lana Del Rey
• “Some Things Last” by Lana Del Rey• “Wild” by Troye Sivan
Middle School Dance
Get down with the catchy tunes of your 
youth.
• “My Boo” by Usher • “Y eah!” by Usher, Lil Jon, Ludacris • “Fantasy” by Mariah Carey
• “No Scrubs” by TLC
• “Let Me Love Y ou” by Mario • “Umbrella” by Rihanna, JAY-Z
• “Cry Me A River” by Justin Timberlake • “Say My Name” by Destiny’s Child 
• “One, Two Step” by Ciara, Missy Elliot 
• “Low” by Flo Rida ft. T-Pain
• “Down” by Jay Sean, Lil Wayne • “If I Ain’t Got You” by Alicia Keys
• “Kiss Y ou Thru The Phone” by Soulja 
Boy
• “Party In The USA ” by Miley Cyrus
• “No Air” by Jordin Sparks
• “DJ Got Us Fallin’ In Love” by Usher
• “Super Bass” by Nicki Minaj• “Pretty Girl Rock” by Keri Hilson
• “Hot In Herre” by Nelly
• “Me & U” by Cassie
• “Promiscuous” by Nelly Furtado, 
Timbaland
• “Piece of Me” by Britney Spears (or any 
Britney song)
• “So What” by P!nk
• “Fergalicious” by Fergie
• “Perfect Two” by Auburn
• “On the Floor” by Pitbull ft. Jennifer Lopez
• “Tik T ok” by Ke$ha
• “Dynamite” by Taio Cruz
Bright & Sunny
Let the positivity flow!
• “Unwritten” by Natasha Bedingfield
• “Saturday” by Vance Joy
• “Put Y our Records On” by Corinne 
Bailey Rae
• “I’m Y ours” by Jason Mraz 
• “Dancing Queen” by ABBA
• “Wake Me Up Before Y ou Go-Go” by 
Wham!
• “Party in the U.S.A. ” by Miley Cyrus 
• “ American Teen” by Khalid 
• “Y ou Make My Dreams” by Daryl Hall 
& John Oats 
• “Uptown Funk” by Mark Ronson ft. 
Bruno Mars
• “The Oogum Boogum Song: by 
Brenton Wood 
• “I Want You Back” by The Jackson 5
• “Sunday Candy” by Chance the Rapper
• “No Tears Left To Cry” by Ariana Grande
• “Hit Me With Y our Best Shot” by Pat 
Benatar
• “Perfect Places” by Lorde
• “Me Too” by Meghan Trainor
• “Feeling Good” by Nina Simone, Muse, 
or Michael Buble
• “Pocketful of Sunshine” by Natasha 
Bedingfield
• “BBM” by Lana Del Rey
• “Tell My Mama” by Christina Grimmie• “22” by Taylor Swift
• “It Girl” by Jason Derulo
Pop Off Sis
Y ou’re the queen of the world. • “I Don’t F--- With Y ou” by Big Sean 
ft. E-40
• “Bodak Yellow” by Cardi B
• “Partition” by Beyoncé • “Dangerous Woman” by Ariana 
Grande 
• “Stronger” by Kanye West 
• “Do I Wanna Know?” by Arctic 
Monkeys
• “Needed Me” by Rihanna
• “Love Galore” by SZA ft. Travis Scott • “New Rules” by Dua Lipa
• “ All Me” by Drake ft. 2 Chainz and 
Big Sean
• “Don’t Cha” by The Pussycat Dolls  
• “God is a woman” by Ariana Grande• “Sorry Not Sorry” by Demi Lovato
• “Fighter” by Christina Aguilera• “Man! I Feel Like A Woman!” by 
Shania Twain
• “Go F--- Yourself ” by Two Feet
• “S.L.U.T.” by Bea Miller
• “Do What Y ou Want” by Lady Gaga ft. 
Christina Aguilera
• “Fall in Line” by Christina Aguilera ft. 
Demi Lovato
• “In My Feelings” by Lana Del Rey
• “6 Inch” by Beyonce
• “Cherry” by Lana Del Rey (Kristijan 
Majic remix) 
• Any Blackpink song (esp. “Playing 
with Fire” and “SO HOT”)
• “Seven Nation Army” (Glitch Mob 
remix)
• “Believer”/”Warrior”/”Friction” by 
Imagine Dragons
• “Copycat” by Billie Eilish
• “Y ou Should See Me In a Crown” by 
Billie Eilish
• “Castle” by Halsey• “Gemini Feed” by BANKS
• “Weaker Girl” by BANKS
• “Chun Li” by Nicki Minaj
• “Crazy in Love” (the Fifty Shades 
remix) by Beyonce
• “Nice To Meet Me” by Zack Hemsey
• “Ready For It” by Taylor Swift
• “Seminole” by NoMBeThe Lifestyle Playlists
Introducing Avontuur 
Met Annika by Lifestyle Staff
by Annika Olives // 
Lifestyle Editor   
I’ve always dreamed of living in Europe. 
As a kid growing up in California, Europe 
seemed an entire world away. Miniature 
versions of clogs and the Eiffel Tower hung 
from my keyring; souvenirs from friends and relatives decorated my desk and walls. I heard stories of dancing in Spain, eating through Florence, and exploring the Alps. 
Paris captivated me, as it did many young 
girls, and I fantasized about being whisked away to the most romantic city in the world. Europe was a wish, something unattainable. 
So, when I arrived at UC San Diego and 
realized that studying abroad was a possibility, I jumped headfirst into the process. I spent the majority of my second year researching universities, talking to advisors, applying for 
scholarships, studying travel websites, and 
making sure every little detail was ironed out. My wish turned into a reality when I was accepted into my program and after a 
summer of working full-time to make extra 
money, I boarded a plane in August to start the latter half of my college experience in the Netherlands. 
For the last two months, I’ve been living and learning in Maastricht, a town in the south end of the country just a bike ride from Belgium and a bus ride from Germany. 
It’s much smaller (and colder) than what 
I’m used to, but I’m growing fond of the quieter lifestyle. It’s a place where the river Maas rushes by calmly, vines grow up the buildings, and bikes abound. It’s somewhere 
I’m learning to call home, even if it’s just for 
a little while.  
And so, as I write this piece from my dorm 
room halfway across the world, I introduce “Av o n t u u r  M e t  A n n i k a ,”  a  t r a v e l  j o u r n a l -
in-progress documenting my semester 
abroad. I’ll be sharing my adventures, travels, challenges, and everything in between. Sit in on my classes, walk along the cobblestone, 
and breathe in European culture.  
I hope you’ll join me!
--Avontuur met Annika, which translates to 
Adventure with Annika, is a travel journal of my experiences in Europe during my semester abroad at University College Maastricht, Netherlands. Follow me at @annikdotes on Instagram for more photos and stories! 
ILLUSTRATION BY ANTHONY TRAN
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
What ____ Means To Me: Music Edition 
What Music Means to Me by Colleen Conradi, Staff Writer
My taste in music covers a wide range of genres. Put my phone on shuffle and you’ll get 
songs from artists such as Miley Cyrus, Van Morrison, Florence and the Machine, Sugar Hill 
Gang, Louis Prima, Kendrick Lamar, and of course, Los Lobos. While I do take pride in my 
diverse collection, there is truly only one person I can give credit to for my musical knowledge: my mom. 
Growing up, it took me a while to appreciate my mom’s love for playing all kinds of music as 
loudly and proudly as she does. To this day, I don’t think I’ve ever met someone with as many tapes and CDs as her, but my sister and I didn’t always love her music as much as everyone else did. Jimi Hendrix did not entice me as much as Hannah Montana did at the time. It was not unusual for my mom to turn up the volume on some Eric Clapton while a neighbor walked by, yelling out their appreciation for her selection. She truly has music for all occasions; my sister 
and I could tell what my mother’s mood was solely based on the music playing. As soon as we 
heard the opening of The Gap Band’s, “You Dropped a Bomb on Me” on a Saturday morning, the message was clear: either get out and go play or Mom will have you washing dishes to the likes of Kool and the Gang in no time. Unfortunately, two years ago my family had to move out of our beloved little house and 
neighborhood community. I thought losing my home would mean losing all the memories that came with it. However, recently, I randomly came across a Los Lobos song and once the chorus 
began, all of my favorite memories of home came flooding back. Suddenly, I could see my sister, 
our neighborhood friends, and me racing down the street on our bikes and Razor scooters. I could see construction workers repaving the street while my eight-year-old self sat at a tiny lemonade stand, patiently awaiting the moment that the hot sun demanded the men take a break 
and buy a refreshment. I could hear the frogs in the creek behind my house and feel the sweet 
summer air around me. I realized all of these memories were still with me and with the help of all the music my mom played, it’s as if each song can be my own little time machine. 
This moment and many more that I’ve had with rediscovered songs are why I love music 
and am grateful to have grown up around it. Each song I listen to throughout my life eventually 
become more than just a song; it becomes a memory. As I continue to add to my playlists, I’ll 
be able to go back and listen to albums and artists that represent all the different seasons of my life. Even now, as I find myself turn on The Sugarhill Gang to find the motivation to clean up my room, I know all of these musical memories will continue to stay with me.by Lifestyle Staff
What Jazz Means to Me by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
It’s a Thursday afternoon. Fall is right around the corner; the scent of fireplace smoke is in 
the air, and I’m rushing to sixth period, boots clacking against the ground. I grab my seat at the 
back of the classroom as my AP statistics teacher passes around thick packets of problems. He 
returns to his desk, presses play, and jazz immediately flows from the speaker. 
This was a recurring event during my senior year of high school. During statistics, I could 
count on the fact that every potential silence would be interrupted by a smooth saxophone. I 
learned the difference between t-tests and z-tests with a melodic piano and practiced probability 
to the tune of a trumpet. As a result of the class, you either learned to hate jazz, or you learned 
to love it. 
I became a fan. 
I’ve never been one to study with music. I always found it distracting — how was I supposed to listen, write, and read at the same time? Even when I played songs I knew by heart, ones that apparently were easier to tune out, I couldn’t focus; my mind jumped from “The Catcher in the Rye” to Hozier’s croon and back. 
Jazz was different. It was calming, warm. I quickly discovered the playlist “Coffee Table Jazz, ” 
and it became a staple in my statistics study sessions. Jazz soon bled into other areas of my academic life and into college; that playlist saw me through countless research papers, attempts at Java programming, and three calculus classes. 
Even now, when I’m stressed or confused about something school-related, I’ll put that 
playlist on, and it helps ease my mind. As cheesy as it sounds, it takes me back to my AP 
statistics class, where my barely-17-year-old-self thought that no problem was too big to tackle. 
I guess I have my teacher to thank for that. 
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
IT'S MAGIC! WITH PAUL VUTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 15 - OCT 21
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 • 7:30pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE 
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
4pm
TAKE ACTION WITH IDEAS - BEING 
A RESPONSIVE BYSTANDER. - PRICE 
CENTER
This interactive program offers party safety strategies, emphasizing risk reduction and being a responsive bystander. ERC Room, PC 
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES  
- VARIES
One of I-House's most popular events, Language 
Conversation Tables (LCTs) creates an 
environment where people can learn another 
language through the art of conversing with a 
fluent speaker. LCTs has successfully helped people know more about both the language and the accompanied culture, as well as generating long-lasting friendships!
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
INCREDIBLES 2 - PRICE CENTER THEATER
As always, our movie will be accompanied with 
FREE POPCORN! Incredibles 2 is the sequel to the 2000 2018 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Deadpool, distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the eleventh installment in the X-Men film series, and a direct sequel to the 2016 film Deadpool.
7:30pm
IT'S MAGIC! WITH PAUL VU - THE 
LOFT
Get mystified with the famous magician act 
coming to The Loft! Paul Vu is a 22-year-old Magician that has appeared on British National Television in ITV1s The Next Great Magician and Ellen. Paul is also a content creator, who has created multiple viral videos which have accumulated over 60 million total views. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTUE10.16
THU10.18MON10.15
10am
YOGA ZONE - THE ZONE
Taught by a FitLife instructor, this free program is 
on first come, first serve basis. All materials 
including yoga mats are provided. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu 
12pm
JAPAN'S EVOLVING SECURITY 
ASSESSMENTS OF CHINA AND 
NORTH KOREA - SCHOOL OF 
GLOBAL POLICY AND STRATEGY, 
ROOM 3106 
Dr. Narushige Michishita joins us to speak on 
Japan's evolving security assessments of China 
and North Korea and its impact on Japan's 
security posture. Dr. Michishita is a specialist in 
Japanese security and foreign policy as well as 
security issues on the Korean Peninsula. He is the 
author of North Korea's Military-Diplomatic 
Campaigns, 1966-2008 (Routledge, 2009) and 
Lessons of the Cold War in the Pacific (Woodrow 
Wilson Center, 2016). Dr. Michishita is also 
serving as a member of National Security 
Secretariat Advisory Board of the Government of 
Japan and a global fellow at the Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars in Washington 
DC. Contact: mthiveos@ucsd.edu
5pm
LEARN & SERVE: SERVICE AFTER 
GRADUATION - GREEN TABLE ROOM
Learn about how serving the community can help 
prepare you for life after college, grad school and 
finding your passion. Talk to PeaceCorps, City 
Year, Teach for America, Urban Teachers, Ocean 
Discovery Institute alumni and recruiters about 
what their looking for, and how it can impact your 
future.  Learn & Serve is a speaker series that 
connects students with professionals making a 
difference in local non-profits and agencies, and 
opportunities to serve. Contact: 
clettieri@ucsd.edu12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
I-HOUSE: GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! $5 per person, CASH ONLY. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS BRAXTON 
COOK - THE LOFT
One of this generations emerging voices on the 
alto saxophone, Braxton Cook is also a talented vocalist and songwriter, whose sound blends soul, R&B, and jazz. Raised in Prince Georges County, MD, Cooks upbringing helped to shape his unique style, which captures the spirit of the Jazz Age while continuing to push the genre forward for his generation. A graduate of Juilliard, Cook has played alongside Wynton Marsalis, Christian McBride, Jon Batiste, and Robert Glasper; toured with Grammy-nominated trumpeter Christian Scott; performed with Rihanna at MTVs 2016 Video Music Awards and on Americas Got Talent 2015 and 2016 seasons; and recorded with renowned rappers Mac Miller and Anderson .Paak on the song Dang!, from Millers album The Divine Feminine. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
9pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: 
HAUNTED HOEDOWN - MUIR REC GYM 
Put your courage to the test as a you brave 
through a nightmarish hotel, feast on sweet-tangy BBQ, enjoy a petting zoo and line dance the night away at the Haunted Hoedown! Contact: faantonio@AD.UCSD.EDUFRI10.19
2pm
MOVIE BREAK: ATTACK OF THE 
KILLER TOMATOES - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Celebrate the 40th anniversary of this 1978 
cult classic with the film's alumni creators, John DeBello '75 and Stephen Peace '76. Enjoy a pre-screening conversation and learn fun facts about filming on campus. Contact: ddistefano@ucsd.eduSAT10.20WED10.17THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST LEVEL 2
11:30am
THE TRUE COST FILM SCREENING - 
SEUSS ROOM
This is a story about clothing. Its about the 
clothes we wear, the people who make them, and the impact the industry is having on our world. The price of clothing has been decreasing for decades, while the human and environmental costs have grown dramatically. The True Cost is a groundbreaking documentary film that pulls back the curtain on the untold story and asks us to consider, who really pays the price for our clothing? Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
6pm
CENTER FOR STUDENT 
INVOLVEMENT PRESENTS: THE KING FOLLOWED BY DIALOGUE - THE LOFT
Enjoy a free buffet dinner in The Loft while 
viewing a 2018 film showing of the "The King", a documentary that explores Elvis Presley's journey. Come and join the dialogue after! Forty years after the death of Elvis Presley, two-time Sundance Grand Jury winner Eugene Jareckis new film takes the Kings 1963 Rolls-Royce on a musical road trip across America. From Memphis to New York, Las Vegas, and beyond, the journey traces the rise and fall of Elvis as a metaphor for the country he left behind. In this groundbreaking film, Jarecki paints a visionary portrait of the state of the American Dream and a penetrating look at how the hell we got here. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 ANTHONY BURR, 
CLARINETS - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Anthony Burr has enjoyed a distinguished career 
as an exponent of contemporary music. He has performed in this repertoire with many leading groups, including Elision, Either/Or, Klangforum Wien, Ensemble Sospeso, and the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. As a soloist, Anthony has worked with many leading composers in presenting their music, including Alvin Lucier, Helmut Lachenmann, Chaya Czernowin, Liza Lim and Brian Ferneyhough. He has played extensively outside of classical music with major figures including Jim O'Rourke, John Zorn and Laurie Anderson. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
TYPES OF DRINKS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. It has teeth
5. Legwear of yore10. Some Morse symbols
14. Famous musical
15. Take one’s time
16. Once again17. ‘’Anatomy of a Murder’’ director 
Preminger
18. Peculiar speech form
19. Vehicle at an auction, perhaps
20. Sound of relief21. It’s in your head23. Norton Sound city
25. Reverberated
26. Rapeseed oil
29. Small speck31. One way to read32. Parcheesi, e.g.
37. Tall spar
38. Irritable
39. Public uproar40. Canned fruit42. It may be cast out43. They’re caught on the beach44. Daily ritual, below the border45. Joint injury49. Trumpeting bird50. Bechamel, e.g.53. Ballet finale, e.g.57. Freedom from hardship58. Was in a funk59. Jai ___60. Befuddled61. ___ ear and out the other62. Water source63. Glossary entry64. Temporary housing65. Fawning females?DOWN
 1. Rough seas feature2. Words to live by3. Tiny arachnid
4. Power company problems
5. Mark of infamy
6. Military chaplain7. Verdi’s ‘’Caro nome, ’’ e.g.8. Ancient city near the Dardanelles
9. Perfect proportion
10. Villainous Vader
11. ___ a customer12. Wickiup relative13. Scimitar, e.g.
22. Scored perfectly
24. Tiresome
26. Word with boot or day27. Winglike28. Narrow victory margin
29. ‘’Sugaring Off’’ painter
30. Horse feed
32. Group of quails33. Immigrant’s document34. Draws a bead on35. Subject to debate36. Sicilian peak38. Pass along41. Ohio Indian42. Circle width (Abbr.)44. Subjects of Gustavus I45. Blood and tears link46. Aspect47. Stair part48. Mr. T’s gang49. Means of detection51. First-class52. On top of54. Spicy stew55. Hill partner56. Is unwellFURNITURE
Modern Chic Side Table (white). Your 
hunt for the perfect accent table ends right here This charming white lacquer table has long legs a single drawer and classic style that complements any room. Its the perfect accessory to place next to your bed your sofa and more. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Two T sectional Sofa. Wyckes Furniture 
Southern California locations Los Angeles Gridley rd Cerritos CA ()-Orange County Talbert ave Fountain Valley CA ()-San Diego North Miramar rd San Diego CA ()-San Diego South University ave San Diego CA ()- DAY BUYOUT OPTION NO CREDIT NEEDED FINANCING Sectional . Delivery most areas or pick up. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
New Sofa- $40 down. *mattress* I 
have couple NEW Sofa’s left from a truckload I bought. Name Brand! Must sell TODAY. .. Call me (Gigi) if you can get 1 today. *** I can do $40, 90 days No Interest. Delivery possible. Call or Text me (Gigi) at *** Check out our five ...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
TV/COMPUTERS
Seiki SE50UY04 50-Inch 4K Ultra HD LED tv -$300. Im selling my Seiki SE50UY04 50-Inch 4K Ultra HD LED television due to upgrading to a larger television. It’s in good condition, everything works as if it is new. It comes with the remote and air conditioning adapter. I used it mostly for ps4 gaming, and watching movies, which it was great for. Let me know if you have any questions. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
TV Console Media Stand. TELEVISION 
Console Media Stand Wyckes Furniture Southern California locations Los Angeles Gridley rd Cerritos CA ()-Orange County Talbert ave Fountain Valley CA ()-San Diego North Miramar rd San Diego CA (). ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Gamer computer - $699. NEED TO SELL 
ASAP!Call or text 619 947 XXXX.Has twelve fans a few radiator liquid called nice led l8gets. Make offer. Or will trade for new macbook. With monitor 800 i7 940 3.6ghz 12gb ddr3 1600mhz …. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
HARO Pivit (Mira Mesa)- $400. Hello everybody selling my HARO Pivit commuter bike. I only used this to commute to work from home and only had it for a month. Bought it brand new at SD wheel works on Miramar road brand new for $600 so it’s still in new condition. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
KHS 29” Carbon Hardtail (Vista) - $2950. 
Like New Size Medium 29” Carbon Hardtail Mountain Bike. Very little use. eleven Speed SRAM XX1 Drivetrain Fox 32 Float Factory 29” Fork (with Lockout.  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Lager Se Bike with helmet and other 
accessories (San Diego) - $150. Lager Se bike in super condition along with accessories such as helmet, head-light, tail-light, lock, pump-set. It is used for 1 and half year ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
“We are clearly a first-class 
university when you look at our 
national rankings across the board 
whether it’s related to research or 
public service. The idea of having a 
first-class facility with the renovations 
put in place will fit into that 
operation as a university as a whole, ” Earl Edwards, UCSD’s Director of Athletics, said. “It’s a nice extension to incorporate athletics, recreation and 
student activities in general. ”
Opened in the year 1995, RIMAC 
Arena has recently received its greatest 
renovation. Home to the UCSD men’s and women’s volleyball and basketball 
teams, the transformation features 
an upgraded facility with the latest technology and will enable a better environment and experience for not only the athletes but also fans and supporters.
Some noticeable changes include 
a VIP Skybox that can accommodate over 100 guests, retractable and individual seating as well as a 50-
inch wide Daktronics flat screen and 
video panel. Located directly across 
the spectator entrance, the digital device provides several amenities 
such as a scoreboard, current game 
statistics, and both live and playback 
video footage. A new glass border encompassing the concourse has also been implemented in addition to an 
LED courtside scorer’s table.
A segment of the Skybox, 
positioned from about half court, was purposely constructed without 
windows, just railings. This design 
will contribute a dramatic shi ft for 
the viewer to fully retain the energy and sounds of the event at hand. A video production suite, located adjacent to the Skybox, consists of 
quality cameras responsible for live-
event broadcasting. Last but not least, new above-basketball shot clocks were incorporated as part of the new 
Spalding basket standards.
The project launched last Spring 
Quarter and is in good hands with 
Project Manager Brett Stuckey, a UCSD men’s basketball student-athlete 
alumnus. The aesthetic makeover was 
completed mid-September, just in 
time for the women’s volleyball team to host its third home match in the 2018 campaign.
Senior outside hitter Molly Dalziel 
has appreciated the venue’s alterations from a player’s perspective. “It’s a lot of fun, ” she said in regards to being the first team to compete in the improved 
complex. “ There’s a bunch of small 
concrete changes that make a big 
difference. It feels more professional, 
more like our arena, and provides 
more of a performance environment. ”
The modernization of RIMAC 
Arena will allow the institution to 
continue moving forward toward the Division I expectation. Aside 
from enhancing sporting events, the 
remodeled arena is set to bring the entire campus together as one thriving community.
RIMAC serves as “an overall place 
where community and students can 
come in large numbers and perform 
big activities together, ” Rich Mylin, Director of Recreation at UCSD, said. With recent events like the Career Fair 
and SD Hacks, the arena has already 
shown its assembling abilities. “ The 
other big win for all students is the Skybox, ” Mylin said. “It will eventually 
become a new meeting space for all of 
campus for any student organization 
or team gathering. ”
The future is here for the Tritons.
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduRIMAC Arena Receives Renovations For D-1 Transition
▶ RIMAC , from page 16
Staffwriter Lucas Armstrong outlines the intense, exciting nature of the MLB postseason.
Out here on the West Coast, 
baseball, in general, is not as popular as some of the other major 
sports. Walking around on campus, 
aside from the occasional Los Angeles Dodgers hat, most of the sports memorabilia you will see 
our fellow students wearing will 
be of the Golden State Warriors, Los Angeles Lakers, Los Angeles Rams, or Oakland Raiders. While 
the recreational basketball courts 
are always filled up with students 
waiting on the side, you never hear the pop of a baseball mitt or 
the crack of a bat. I think if more 
students gave baseball, or the MLB, a chance, they would fall in love with it. This MLB postseason is the 
perfect opportunity for all sports 
fans to fall in love with baseball. 
Unlike the NBA, the MLB 
postseason always seems to go down 
to the wire, with no team having a 
clear advantage or being the obvious 
favorites. Three out of the last 
four World Series Championships have gone to seven games and each of the last three World Series 
Championships have featured 
completely di fferent pairs of teams. 
In the NBA on the other hand, only one of the last four series have gone to seven games, and it has been the 
same two teams squaring o ff in the 
championship for four consecutive 
seasons. The NFL also has less parity 
than the MLB; in the NFL, only two 
different teams have represented the 
AFC in the last five years. What the 
MLB does very well is parity: Every 
playoff team is so balanced and so 
evenly matched that they all have a legitimate shot to win it all which makes every postseason game that much more important. 
This year’s MLB postseason, in 
particular, is especially interesting. There are so many moving parts and 
revolving storylines that every game feels like more than just a baseball 
game. Let’s start in the National 
League where the Milwaukee Brewers host the Dodgers. These are 
two very di fferent teams, but neither 
team has a distinct upper hand on the other. The Dodgers come into 
the postseason a fter capturing the 
National League West Division Title for the sixth time in as many 
years. A fter losing the World Series 
last year, the Dodgers are a team 
looking for vengeance as they are trying to find their way back to the 
World Series. However, before they 
get there, they have to tangle with 
the Milwaukee Brewers. Unlike the Dodgers, who seem to be dominant every year, the Brewers are in the 
postseason for the first time since 
2011 as this year they captured 
their second-ever National League Central Division Championship. 
The Brewers have been a surprise 
team all season; a fter finishing a 
mediocre 86–76 last year, they had the best record in the National 
League with a sparkling 96–67 
record led by breakout star and MVP-favorite Christian Yelich this year. This matchup of the perennial 
juggernaut from LA versus the 
ragtag motley crew from Milwaukee 
is far from the matchup that was expected going into the year, but it is everything any sports fan could 
want.
Instead of the “David versus 
Goliath” matchup in the National 
League, the American League features an unstoppable force versus 
an immovable object, with the 
Boston Red Sox hosting the Houston Astros. The World Champion 
Houston Astros come into this postseason somehow looking even 
better than they did last year. Last 
year the Astros’ dominant pitching staff fueled them to a championship 
and this year it’s even better with 
the addition of All-Star Gerrit Cole. 
During the season, the Astros’ pitching sta ff recorded the single-
most strikeouts of any pitching sta ff 
in MLB history. They also improved 
on their 4.12 team ERA last year to an MLB Leading 3.11 ERA this year. The Astros bats are not too 
bad either as they were ranked as the No. 6 o ffense in all of baseball. 
The Astros seem like a complete 
team with nothing to stop them from capturing their second straight 
World Series Championship. 
However, despite having all the weapons in the world, the Astros were not the MLB’s best team this 
year. That crown belonged to the 
Red Sox, that stunned the baseball 
world this year with 108 wins, which is the most games won by any team since 2001. The team had the best 
offense in the MLB and outscored 
the next-highest team by 25 runs during the season. This “clash of 
the titans” featuring the MLB’s best pitching sta ff versus the MLB’s best 
hitting crew is something series fans have been waiting for all year, and it has been exactly what everyone has wanted. 
The MLB postseason, more so 
than other major sports, seems to feature fresh new teams every year instead of the same teams going 
at it again and again, this year 
being no di fferent. The matchups 
in this year’s postseason feature a multitude of storylines: From 
surprise teams to historic teams and 
from underdogs to all-time great teams, this postseason has it all. Baseball is de finitely not the favorite 
sport on campus, but if any students 
were interested in the slightest, this 
postseason presents the perfect opportunity for any sports fan to get sucked into America’s pastime.
BY lucas armstrong
Contributing Writer
LUCAS ARMSTRONG  LQARMSTR@ucsd.eduWhy You 
Should 
Watch 
The MLB PostseasonPHOTO COURTESY OF PEXELSLA JOLLA, Calif.— The 2018-2019 UC San 
Diego academic year has arrived, and along with 
it comes the newly renovated RIMAC Arena. 
All 23 intercollegiate athletic teams at UCSD 
will officially compete under Division-I rules 
and regulations in the year 2020, and the long-awaited journey of getting there has begun.   
With the passing of the Division-I 
Referendum in the Spring Quarter of 2016 and an invitation into the Big West Conference last fall, the campus has jump-started the process in reaching its full potential as a premier university 
in both academics and athletics.
UCSD has worked its way up the totem pole. 
It originally began as a member of the NCAA 
Division-III level in 1980 upon initial academic enrollment in 1964. The Tritons then joined 
Division II in 2000. Less than 20 years later, they have now moved their way up to Division I. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs CSULA
vs Concordia Universityvs Humboldt Statevs CSULAvs Sonoma StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Soccer
M Water Polo
W Volleyball
W Soccer
W Volleyball4:30PM
6PM7PM7PM7PM10/1910/1910/1910/1910/20
U-Pass is valid through 
June 30, 2019.  Use your iPhone or Android as your mobile ticket to ride. Sign up for U-Pass Cloud today!
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Student fees provide unlimited rides 
for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded. 
Current registration/enrollment and valid 
@ucsd.edu email address required.Get your new school year 
U-Pass today!
u-pass.ucsd.edu
RIMAC Reconstruction 
Brings Tritons One Step 
Closer to Division I
RIMAC Arena gets a facelift with new, exciting changes.
PHOTO COURTESY OF SIDDARTH ATRE
BY madeline lewis
senior staff Writer
See RIMAC,  page 15