VOLUME 51, ISSUE 15  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 5, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Occurring across all 10 
University of California campuses, 
employees with the union American 
Federation of State, County and 
Municipal Employees Local 3299 protested on Library Walk against worker discrimination and increasing worker security this past 
Thursday. The rallies were held 
in honor of the 50th anniversary of the historical eight-week-long civil rights movement in Memphis, 
Tennessee, after the deaths of two union workers due to unsafe working 
conditions, which ended with Martin Luther King Jr. delivering 
his famous “Mountaintop” speech 
that preceded his assassination.  
Chanting in languages including 
English and Spanish, “What do we 
want? Workers rights! When do we 
want it? Now!” UC employees took to Library Walk on Thursday to address the struggles many face on a daily basis.
AFSCME Local 3299 is the 
UC system’s largest employee union, representing about 24,000 employees. AFSCME has played a major role in securing workers rights, and continues to advocate better conditions.
With branches at the university’s 
10 campuses, five medical centers, numerous clinics, research laboratories, and UC Hastings 
College of Law, on Feb. 1, a National 
Moment of Silence took place with elected officials, sanitation workers, and community leaders to memorialize the legacy of 1968. 
On Feb. 1, 1968 the 
groundbreaking episode in Dance Students 
Repond to Major Cuts to World Dance Classes
Some of the classes being cut 
from the dance department 
include tap, salsa, West African, 
and advanced levels of ballet.
UC San Diego dance students 
held a meeting on Jan. 19 in Studio 
2 at the Molli and Arthur Wagner 
Building in Roger Revelle College 
to express their concerns of the pending dance class cuts in the theater and dance curriculum to 
four full-time faculty members 
of the dance department and one adjunct faculty member. 
The classes being cut include 
salsa, tap, West African, jazz, and 
advanced levels of ballet. According 
to John Muir College junior Astrid Espitia, the undergraduate dance student representative, these classes, 
which mostly are comprised of the 
world dance category, are the most popular and in high demand for students.
Espitia’s role as the undergraduate 
dance representative is to “give students a voice” in UC San Diego’s Theatre and Dance department, she helped organize the meeting with 
some fellow concerned dancers after 
learning through other students and adjunct faculty members about the class cuts. 
“We received news from different 
students and professors and not from direct faculty that classes were being cut, ” Espitia said to the UCSD Guardian. “We asked ourselves, 
‘why is this happening?’ These are 
the most popular classes. ”
“ All of these (dance classes) 
haven’t been taken seriously, ” Espitia stated. “Out of 350 or so students 
that walk through these doors of 
this dance building approximately about 300 of them are students in the world dance classes. ” 
Due to the popularity of these 
classes, waitlisting is common, explained Espitia. 
“It is really hard to get into these 
classes. People plan their whole time and schedule for their careers just 
to get in — it’s really difficult, ” she 
added.  
A few weeks ago, before the 
meeting, Espitia and other dance 
students handed out surveys to 
students in every dance class to get feedback on whether they thought their voices were being heard in the 
department and their thoughts on 
the class cuts. 
According to Espitia, the adjunct 
dance faculty, which includes all the world dance professors, “created UC SYSTEM
BY Rebeca Camacho
contributing writer
BY Amalia Huerta Cornejo 
staff Writer
Workers of  AFSCME 3299 Stage Protests Across the UC System
UCSD
The Super Blue Blood Moon over San Diego on Jan. 31. Photo by Klaus Hummler // UCSD Guardian Parent
See AFSCME,  page 3UCSD
See DANCE,  page 3The University Centers Advisory Board is 
considering piloting a nap pod program in the Price Center area. They were 
approached by a company called HOHM. The company and UCAB are still deciding the logistics of the program in order to make a concrete decision. 
HOHM is a new sleep pod company that designs 
nap pod rooms for high-volume public places like airports, office buildings, universities, and events. According to their website, the “soundproof unit” is equipped with a twin-sized bed, a charging station, and custom lighting. 
Additionally, according to UCAB Graduate 
Student At Large Gary Le, the program would most likely run “on a reservation system. ” 
Since the room is personal, it would require 
maintenance and attendance by a supervisor 
almost at all times. 
“They’ d be coming in and using their own 
supervisors and it looks like they would be 
providing cleaning and things like that, which is 
nice as well, ” John Muir College Representative 
Nicholas Laub commented.
The company approached them toward the end of Fall Quarter 2017, but “UCAB has been considering some sort of napping pod program ever since we received requests from students to 
implement some sort of napping space, ” UCAB 
Chair Ashley Awe commented.
“Napping pods have been on our mind a lot. I 
know when the hammock garden opened up, that 
was a big deal, ” Laub added. 
“UCAB is still working with the company to 
decide the parameters of the pilot program to 
decide if we want to proceed, ” UCAB Chair Ashley Awe commented. 
In the decision for the nap pod pilot, the board 
must consider the reality of the pods and student usage.
“Is the idea of a nap pod better than the actual 
nap pod? Will people use it if it’s there?” Le questioned. “We have to think about how long will 
students take a nap for … This is one of the ideas 
we’re trying out and it’s up to students to decide whether they want something like a nap pod where you have a personal pod ... or something more 
like the zone where there’s just bean bags with low 
costs, but not that comfortable. ” 
The board has not decided on a clear location By Madeline Leon  staff WriterCAMPUS
UCAB Considering Piloting a Nap Pod Program
The demonstration highlighted the 50th anniversary of the Memphis, Tennessee civil rights movement.See NAP POD,  page 3PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
A TRITON 
TO WATCH
He left the Netherlands at a 
young age to grace us with his 
beautiful and benign presence. 
A talented musician, writer, and 
comedian — Niel Bezrookove 
has managed to make his mark 
on the local art scene.
STUDENT  UNIONS
A  FREED  DREAMERStudent  Wages  and   Rights
CHATTING  WITH  ORR Y AKOBIOPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  Page  7
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The concept of cultural 
appropriation does not 
always make sense outside 
of Western cultures. 
Indeed, why would a 
Kazakhstani woman be 
aware of American linguistic 
intricacies if Americans en 
masse do not feel obliged 
to even know where 
Kazakhstan is.”  
     - REVEKKA GERSHOVICH
PUTIN IT IN PERSPECTIVE
OPINION, PAGE 4A&E,   PAGE  8 
MONDAY
H 68 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 73 L 51
PHOTO COURTESY OF ESRA ELHENDY
TUESDAY
H 66 L 53
THURSDAY
H 73 L 53
CLUB SPORTS..............3
DANCE MARATHON.....6
FRIEND BREAKUPS....10 
PEEKS & PREVIEWS...12
BASKETBALL..............162 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
Students, staff, faculty, and the public 
are invited to enjoy an amazing menu featuring regions of Africa, inspiring entertainment, and more! 
General Admission is free.  Menu available 
for purchase. Complimentary dessert is 
included with the purchase of a full entrée.  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7
@ OCEANVIEW, MARSHALL COLLEGE
ALL DAY EVENT!  LUNCHEON AND DINNER!
WAR AND PEACE: THE COMPLEXITY OF HISTORY, SERVICE  
AND ACTIVISM WITHIN THE BLACK DIASPORA
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972Participants Can Be Required to Play Up to Several Hundred Dollars to Play in a UCSD Club Sport
Club sports are only partially funded by UCSD Recreation, and the program is unable to receive funding from A.S. Council. RECREATION
The UC San Diego Sports Club 
Program currently oversees up to 
1,323 participants in 30 different 
competitive sports teams and 
accounts for 4.4 percent of the $142 million spent by all Student Affairs departments in the fiscal year 2016-
17. These expenditures include 
student services such as career guidance, Academic Enrichment Programs, housing, recreation and intercollegiate athletics. 
In fact, recreational athletic 
programs like sports clubs, intramurals and fitness classes have seen a twofold increase in their 
expenditures over the past decade to 
$6.4 million. 
According to UCSD Recreation, 
however, the university only partially funds the sports clubs. Participants “have to pay additional 
dues, which varies with every team. ” 
Furthermore, its registration criteria for new club sports do not allow for funding from A.S. Council. It requires “a self-sufficient budget” 
because program or department 
funding is not guaranteed.
The men’s soccer team has to 
pay annual player fees ranging 
between $300 and $500, while 
women’s soccer have to pay $500 to $600. The women’s team website states that the fees provide year-round expenditures “including but 
not limited to apparel, equipment, 
tournaments, hotels, gas, and referees. ”
Team members can help 
alleviate operational costs and any team members’ financial pressures through their own resources and university-approved fund-raising projects. Women’s soccer, for example, helps organize fundraisers 
during the year to reduce any 
economic barriers to entry that may affect such students.
The 2016-17 detailed financial 
schedules for UCSD lay out general 
revenues and recreation expenditures 
that directly affect these sports clubs. They show that most of the funding for student services come 
from tuition and student fees ($120 
million), private gifts, grants and contracts ($757,000), and sales and services of ‘auxiliary enterprises’ such as the UCSD bookstore, student 
housing, and parking ($1.2 million).
Campus-based fee expenditure 
reports give a more explicit look 
into how much student fees are 
funneled into sports clubs and how 
that factors into the overall budget for recreation.
The 2016-17 student services fee 
report indicates that the $1.2 million allocated to UCSD Recreation is 
distributed primarily between staff 
salaries ($451,112), supplies and expense ($318,129) and benefits (246,477), with travel costing the least ($12,811).
The student activity fee report 
shows that 0.17 percent of all student activity fee expenditures ($8,459) was specifically used for 
sports clubs while the Intercollegiate 
Athletics (ICA) activity fee report attributes 1.8 percent of total ICA expenditures ($188,508) to sports clubs’ funding.
Other funding sources for UCSD 
Recreation include state and federal government grants, contracts, UC general funds, investment returns, 
and sales and services of educational 
activities.
kevin chiang  kkc024@ucsd.eduBY kevin chiang
staff Writer
follow  us  on  twitter
@UCSDGUARDIANThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. If you don’t fund this paper, I’ll shoot this dog. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox
Yeji Shin  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Zhuoying Lin
Copy Reader
Agnes Song, Cora Becker, Melissa Posada, 
Rachael Alberts, Richard Lu, Vincent Gao
Editorial Assistant
Chloe Esser, Maya Kleiman, Armonie Mendez, 
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
UC Student Regent:
Attend all UC board meetings, 
maintain full voting power, and enjoy waived university fees
UC Student Advisor:
Attend all UC board meetings and further supplement the single student regent vote
yet, but there would most likely be 
two: one by Price Center and one by the Geisel Library. 
Laub also considered the 
effectiveness of the locations. 
“Putting napping areas is kinda 
tough because there’s a lot of noise 
and, a lot of foot traffic, ” he said. “I know the library was trying some 
initiative to find some space for 
napping, but that didn’t work out 
so well. ” 
UCAB Eleanor Roosevelt College Representative Muhammad Tauha adds that although the program would be a “good idea” and greatly beneficial to off-campus students, “PC is already pretty populated. ”
Although UCAB would be 
interested in implementing the nap pod program, details such as the cost and actual benefits to students 
in the populated noisy area of Price Center,  must be taken into 
consideration and have not been 
clearly discussed between the board 
and HOHM. 
“I’m sure by next quarter we might have some more information, ” Laub said. UCAB expresses that nothing is concrete at the moment, and the decision to implement the pilot program has yet to be decided. 
The success of the pilot program 
would determine whether or not an official program would be implemented. 
   The Future of  the Nap Pods W ould Depend on the Pilot Program’s Success
some transparency, but even they 
don’t know all the information as to why this is happening. ”
Present at the meeting were 
Head of undergraduate dance Yo l an d e  S n ait h e ,  He a d  of  g r a du at e dance Liam Clancy, full-time faculty 
members Eric Geiger and Patricia 
Rincon, and adjunct dance faculty 
member Alicia Rincon. Students 
majoring and minoring in dance, 
and non-major students turned out to the meeting.
“We are trying to establish 
more of a community but that’s 
not really going to happen if more 
students aren’t involved,” Espitia said. “Something that we’ve seen is that many students who would 
be [majoring or  minoring in 
dance] don’t want to because the curriculum is very geared toward contemporary dance. ” 
At the meeting, the full-time 
faculty’s explanation of the dance cuts to the students included funding reasons.
“UCSD is a STEM school. Arts 
and humanities get very little money, and out of those two, arts gets even less money, ” Espitia explained. “ And out of arts, the theater and dance department gets even less. Even 
though they say [theatre and dance] 
are united, that is not true. Theater gets a lot more money than dance. ”
“We can’t even get small basic 
things. Our rooms are sometimes not very clean; we’ve gotten a few complaints about that. And we’re so far away, it feels like we are an afterthought, ” Espitia added. The 
current world dance cuts come amid full-time faculty professors 
“not seeing these classes as the direction the department is going 
for, ” according to Espitia.
Aplanned, independent board 
review of the theater and dance 
department is scheduled for March 
1. Espitia and other concerned 
dance students are planning to meet 
with adjunct faculty next week once 
the Spring Quarter class schedule 
is published to discuss the official 
changes in preparation for their feedback to the board meeting, which they plan on getting as many 
students as possible to attend.
Espitia mentioned to keep 
in mind that the board meeting 
isn’t “just a place for students to 
complain. ” 
“I don’t think [students] would 
be there if they didn’t care about 
the department,” Espitia said. “Everyone cares a lot. I have friends 
and have found a very beautiful 
community here. I have been able to learn so many forms of dance. We just feel that and have seen 
that certain classes and worlds of 
dance are not being taken seriously and completely disregarded for what certain people believe is the future of dance, and that’s just not right 
because it is our dance education, 
and we are paying for this. ” 
More information can be found 
on the UCSD Theatre and Dance 
Diversity Facebook page or by 
contacting Astrid Espitia.A Board Will Review the Department in March
▶ DANCE from page 1
America’s labor and civil rights 
movement  marks the deaths of two AFSCME sanitation workers. 
Echol Cole and Robert Walker were 
crushed to death when their truck’s compactor malfunctioned, which sparked the historical 1300 worker 
strike — the greatest of its time. 
Chanting “I am a man, ” and tackling issues such as unsafe staffing levels that threaten worker and patient safety, workers wages that don’t 
keep up with inflation, and the 
displacement of African American workers, workers back then battled many of the same challenges still 
prevalent at the University of 
California today.     
AFSCME 3299 President 
Kathryn Lybarger issued a press release on Jan. 31, 2018 to address the seminal relevance of the movement to current hardships.
“Fifty years ago, Dr. Martin 
Luther King and hundreds of courageous heroes in Memphis 
risked everything to demand dignity, 
equality, and respect for working people, ” Lybarger said. “This fight goes on today, as UC Administrators 
seek to finance their secret slush 
funds, executive pay raises and half-million dollar parachutes for disgraced ex-chancellors with tuition hikes for students and cuts 
for low-wage workers. ”
2018 is marked in recognition of 
the 150th anniversary of the charter 
of University of California — the 
state’s third largest employee, and 
the 70th anniversary of UC workers joining AFSCME. 
This January, Michael Avant, a 
patient transporter at UC San Diego Medical Center and executive vice president of the AFSCME Local 3299 issued a statement to the San Diego Union-Tribune on the topic.  
“These are hardly radical ideas. 
But for far too many working families and people of color, they remain elusive, ” he warned. “This is a time to reaffirm our commitment 
to changing that reality. ” 
Avant: We Are Committed to Changing Conditions for Workers of  Color
▶ AFSCME from page 1▶ NAP POD from page 1
Madeline Leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu
Rebeca Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.edu Amalia Huerta Cornejo  ahuertac@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Some Americans believe that 
international cooperation is a 
discussion between Americans and the rest of the world, so it stands to reason that everyone should be well-versed 
in American discourses. Otherwise, 
who knows what wrath shall come upon them? Recently, such fury came down upon two Russian designers who attended Fashion Week in Paris, France.
A week ago Ulyana Sergeenko sent 
Miroslava Duma a “Fashion Week in Paris” invitation envelope where she 
cited a song by Kanye West “N----s in 
Paris.” Someone later posted a photo of the envelope on Instagram. Shortly after, both women received thousands of death threats. Ulyana apologized saying that since she was raised in a remote Kazakhstani village she was unaware of how offensive the N-word would be. However, the internet did not 
accept the apology. Ulyana’s followers 
continued sending her enraged letters. In these letters they reiterated how many times white women have been told to avoid the word. Indeed, how many times have they been told? For Kazakhstani women, none at all.
Afro-Russians make up less 
than 0.0005 percent of the Russian 
population – not enough to cause 
either hatred or love. Russia also has little to no history of racial conflict, so Russians do not have a sense of historical responsibility for it. Besides, the Russian word “Negr” does not have any negative connotations, so a native Russian speaker would not understand the extent to which 
the English N-word is considered 
abominable. 
The key issue here is that there is 
no concept of cultural appropriation in Russian culture. As a Russian Jew, for example, I know that Jews welcome when someone is playing Jewish music, dancing Jewish dances or wearing traditional Jewish clothes, 
unless it is intentionally derisive. It is 
perceived as an expression of mutual interest, as respect for and solidarity with the culture rather than theft. Therefore, when Americans attack white Eastern Europeans for wearing dreads referring to a concept of cultural appropriation, the former cannot understand them. Unike in America, 
wearing dreads in Eastern Europe is a 
bold and frequently dangerous act of civil disobedience. 
Wearing dreads in the former 
Soviet bloc signifies a rebellion, a challenge to oppressive totalitarian structures. Inspired by tactics of civil disobedience used by the followers of Martin Luther King Jr., Eastern 
Europeans initially started wearing 
dreads to show their solidarity with African-Americans struggling for their civil rights. As the movement progressed behind the iron curtain, dreads started to more broadly signify support for America as well as general rebellion against totalitarian structures. Henceforth, wearing dreads became 
a separate cultural phenomenon in 
Eastern Europe. In the former Soviet bloc, it is a bold act to wear dreads, it is dangerous and has its own cultural context. 
The concept of cultural 
appropriation does not always make sense outside of Western cultures. Indeed, why would a Kazakhstani 
woman be aware of American 
linguistic intricacies if Americans en masse do not feel obliged to even know where Kazakhstan is. Such attacks caused by cultural insensitivity thwart international cooperation. The attack on Ulyana Sergeenko did not advance the African-American case — instead, it went viral in Russia and 
empowered those promoting hatred of 
the U.S. and isolation from the West. 
From ketchup on french fries to corner 
store bodegas, a string of legislation has begun 
targeting so-called “foreign” or “ethnic” food items and purveyors in Europe. Europe in this context really means Italy, France, and Denmark, since these countries especially are leading the charge in banning food customs introduced by migrants from their public institutions and historic districts. Despite Europe’s increasingly heavy reliance on immigrant workers to maintain their economies, the politicians advocating the removal of ethnic foods seek to “preserve their culture” by excluding ever-growing, ever-important populations from contributing to the nation’s culture. It should be news to no one that Europe has a poor track record for assimilating its immigrant population, but these petty nationalistic tendencies spell a lot of trouble for everyone, not just immigrants. 
Economic arguments offer a convenient way 
to disguise the xenophobia which motivates these laws. Some argue that immigrants dilute a nation’s culture which would harm their tourism industry; others argue that an influx of immigrants depresses wages and limits job prospects for natives. However, these specious arguments fall flat in the face of countless studies and historical analyses. Not only have numerous studies found that immigrant workers have little to no effect on wages of natives, but others have found that immigrant workers fill the necessary lower-level positions that allow a company to grow and to produce more jobs. These principles — whether some ascribe to them or not — are so integral to the history of America’s success that Europe’s refusal to compromise its cultural high ground is baffling. In fact, San Diego provides the perfect model for just how to integrate immigrants in a way that is both culturally welcoming and economically advantageous. 
Beginning in the ‘70s, immigrant populations 
surged in San Diego County such that one in four people in the county today is an immigrant and nearly half have one or more parent who is an immigrant. San Diego, however, distinguishes itself from the European distaste for immigrants by recognizing that immigration is a political and social reality that cannot be swept under the rug. The Economic Snapshot accredits San Diego’s efforts to integrate immigrants through language and professional training for its success. Since the ‘80s, immigrants have maintained an upward trend in full-time work, wages, homeownership, and acquisition of high school degrees. Not only that, but moving immigrants outside of the shadow of contempt America has for immigrants has increased the amount they pay in taxes, even toward services immigrants do not often use, such as social security. All the while, San Diego natives benefit from immigrant participation in the economy because businesses whose basic labor needs are met are more able to grow. This has led to booms in the tourism industry, military industry, biotech industries, and even the food industry — one which ironically causes so much stress for Europeans.  
All this being said, the be-all and end-all of 
immigration should not revolve around how migrant workers can benefit the economic standing of natives. The tensions between immigrants and natives are exclusively cultural. Just like in Europe, America depends on immigrant workers to grow our economy, but tensions between migrant groups and natives present themselves very differently in America than they do in Europe. American culture is so heavily intertwined with our history of immigration, so subtle backlash against immigrants is a thing of the past. Rather than seeking to obfuscate xenophobia in legislation, America has a distinct talent for brutally confronting our nationalistic tendencies in the form of vandalism, assault, and vilification. Reports abound with incidents of harassment, and even attacks on Muslim-run businesses with slabs of bacon as if to illustrate the sloven nature of these crimes. Attacks on food items and purveyors are just the low-hanging fruit by which people express nationalistic rage towards immigrants, both here and in some European countries. But at least Americans do not try to disguise their xenophobia. Fortunately, San Diego’s model of civic engagement proves that a region can rely on immigrants to bolster its economy while also making a name for itself on a global scale by embracing and enriching the immigrants’ culture.   
San Diego has become a cultural and 
economic hub due to its integration of largely-Latino immigrant populations. Europe, on the other hand, situates itself in a never-ending cycle of increasing its reliance on immigrants and reviling them. Whereas Europe sees food as the first means by which immigrants dilute its culture, San Diego has taken a big bite out of multiculturalism and maybe a Cali burrito or two. 
Immigrants Help Economies, Natives Help Themselves
By: Christopher Robertson // Opinion EditorStanding Behind Student Unions
From Cesar Chavez, to Clara Lemlich, 
to Samuel Gompers, to that one TA in 
Math 10B, labor organization isn’t just 
a couple of pages in a history book, it is 
a living, breathing force of change that can be found on this very campus. The 
UC system’s policies toward its student 
employees often put them at odds with 
labor organizations and the laborers themselves, and that is a disservice to the 
many student workers who help run their 
institutions. 
Despite the often strained relationship 
with the university, the unions that are already on campus have achieved a lot 
to improve their working conditions and pay. Their ability to get their demands met 
demonstrates what decades of history have 
already proven: Collective bargaining 
is the path to a more equitable working 
environment. Undergraduate student workers make this university run — from 
shuttles to dining halls to the front desks of most administrative offices on campus — 
yet there is no undergraduate student union to protect their rights. 
Unions and labor movements are the true unsung heroes of society today, 
and their job is nowhere near over. The 
limits on child labor, pay rates and hourly 
regulations, and health and safety codes 
are all things that have become a normal 
part of today’s work environment, and they 
took countless hours and a great sacrifice 
from the labor movement throughout the 
past century. Unions go beyond fighting the big violations of labor laws, helping 
workers navigate the bureaucratic mess of laws, stipulations, and forms. They are a fundamental safeguard against unregulated 
capitalism, ensuring that people are aware 
of all of their rights and the ways in which 
they can better their working conditions. 
Despite this, union membership is quickly dissipating, and that is more worrisome 
than most think. 
Unions are not done fighting for the 
rights of workers, especially in the pro-business administration that is also anti-
migrant and anti-minority. It has been 
challenging to discern the exact cause of this downward trend in membership, 
but at least part of it can be attributed 
to large institutions, such as Target 
actively preventing their employees from unionizing.
One of the labor sectors that is often 
forgotten is the student workers at 
universities, who are often getting their 
first glimpse of the workforce during this time. Graduate student employees face a 
harsh juxtaposition hovering between the expectations of a full-time job and the 
reality of being a student worker. Teaching assistants, for example, often bear the 
majority of the responsibility for lower-By: Adriana Barrios // Senior Sta ff WriterPutin It In 
Perspective
By: Revekka Gershovich // Senior Sta ff WriterRussian to 
Criticize Russian Culture
“One of the labor 
sectors that is often 
forgotten is the 
student workers at 
universities, who are 
often getting their 
first glimpse of the 
workforce during this 
time.”WINTER 2018
M: 10am-4pm
Tu: 1pm-4pm 
W: 1pm-5pm 
Th: 1pm-5pm 
F: 12pm-4pmAT  THE  OR I GINAL STUDENT C ENTER
tritonfood pantryHOURS
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
BAD TRIANGLES   By Immigrant
division undergraduate classes, 
and research assistants weren’t 
even allowed to go under contract with a union until last year. Before 
then, they faced an unfair position 
when negotiating the terms of their 
employment. That being said, on this 
campus a large portion of student employees are undergraduates 
who staff the dining facilities and 
markets, who perform clerical work 
in administrative offices throughout every department, and who take 
care of campus transportation and 
residency. The lack of a union to protect the rights and interests of 
such a large amount of students 
seems unfair, but these absences are 
not from lack of trying. 
The UC system has been 
vehemently opposed to every single 
pro-unionization movement by their student workers and then fights tooth and nail in its negotiations with them. 
The most recent example of this is its opposition to SB 201, which allows 
graduate research assistants to 
unionize in California. The position 
of the university toward unionization 
and collective bargaining has been to oppose it legally and, when that 
fails, to discourage it within its 
specific campuses. Nevertheless, 
unions have triumphed time and time again against opposition and 
have made some real changes 
in their working conditions and treatment, such as increasing 
maternity leave and pushing for 
measures like the aforementioned 
SB 201. Undergraduate students 
pursuing unionization are looking 
for those same rights to demand 
more equitable working conditions and have a better understanding of their rights as workers as opposed to 
their rights as students who work.
Anti-union sentiment is consistent 
with the way the UC Regents operate — like a corporation. UC San Diego 
however should not be following 
in those footsteps; to have a mural of Cesar Chavez on this campus 
and be actively discouraging labor 
organizing is simply hypocritical. 
This campus owes it to its student workers to be willing to cooperate 
with their labor organizations. In 
fact, the university should encourage undergraduate unions to demonstrate 
their awareness of the large amount 
of work done by undergraduate 
students at this university. 
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
Adriana Barrios  A7barrio@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
On Saturday, Jan. 27, anyone walking by the Price Center West 
Ballroom could see countless dance groups congregating in the hallways, notice volunteers handing out wristbands, 
and hear the unmistakable first notes to “Circle of Life” from “The Lion King” echoing off the walls. Triton Dance Marathon was about to begin, and there was a hum of energy and excitement in the air as performers rehearsed last-minute eight-counts, sound systems were tweaked, and excited children ran around the ballroom.
This is all thanks to co-directors of the event Eleanor Roosevelt 
College senior Alice Lu and Sixth College senior Stacey Lin. The two of them put every ounce of energy they had into the event, and have been around since its induction at UC San Diego.
“We helped found Dance Marathon at UCSD, and we had our 
first premiere event in Fall of 2016. We had performers and patient families, and it was our first opportunity to share with the campus what Dance Marathon was, ” Lu said. 
Triton Dance Marathon is essentially an opportunity to raise 
funds for Rady Children’s Hospital. The Disney-themed event had a celebratory feel to it, held in the dark ballroom complete with multicolored dancing lights, a stage for the performers, and a dance floor beneath it for the freestylers and spectators. Around the room were activities for students and children alike, ranging from face painting to henna tattoos to a photobooth. All the signs were written in the unmistakable Disney font, and the kids ran from booth to booth, bouncing around the light-up beach balls scattered across the dance floor as they went.
Salsa dancers, hip-hop groups, a cappella singers, DJs, Bollywood 
dancers, and more all took their turns on the stage. The UCSD dance team was the final act, and Sixth College junior Sarah Marlowe, co-captain of the team, shared the most fulfilling aspect of being part of Triton Dance Marathon for her.
“The best part 
about performing at the event is knowing that the impact you’re having is helping other people. We love to dance and it’s fun to support our school, but knowing that your talents, your actions, your effects can help these little kids [who] are at Rady Children’s Hospital is amazing, ” Marlowe said. “They’ve been posting photos of these children they’re going to help on their Facebook page, and it’s really cool to know we’re a part of that, a part of something so big. ”
Another dance organization, Movement Exchange, took the 
stage multiple times throughout the night to teach 16 counts of dance choreography set to different Disney songs. Other dance groups, children, and audience members participated. By the end of the night, the “morale dance” would be completed. Members Earl Warren College junior Shannell Ciruso and ERC sophomore Eric Lee described what participating in the event meant to them. 
“The kids and their families are up all night receiving treatment, ” 
Ciruso said. “The least we can do is dance for a few hours. ”
As part of Movement Exchange, Ciruso and Lee teach elementary 
school children off-campus many dances, but Triton Dance Marathon had a particular impact on them.
“It’s pretty amazing because we teach kids off-campus, but there 
are also more unfortunate kids at Rady Children’s Hospital [who] need medical help, ” Lee said. “It feels nice to be in this community where everyone is donating and being a part of it. ”
But the most important moments of the night belonged to the miracle families who took the stage every hour to share their children’s stories and describe their time at RCH. When the first miracle family was speaking — a little girl named Grace and her mother Laura — you could hear a pin drop in the ballroom. Laura had worked for RCH for many years, but she described her work as being “at an arm’s length, ” until her daughter was born prematurely, with severe respiratory issues. She saw the exceptional care at RCH that she had helped fundraise for all her life and got to bathe and hold her daughter there just like a normal mom.
“The money raised here tonight allows parents, even in their 
deepest, darkest moments, to be just parents, ” Laura said. “Grace has no signs of being born early, and it’s all because of Rady. ”
Grace was the picture of childlike innocence, wearing sparkly 
Ugg boots and her hair in two pigtails. It was almost impossible to imagine her being too ill to breathe. Many other children aren’t as lucky. Another miracle child, Gideon, was diagnosed with leukemia at the end of 2015, but his mother described earnestly how her feeling of devastation only lasted 15 minutes, given RCH’s “magical ability to make [our] needs feel met. They let us know we would make it through. ”
Lin described an experience with one miracle family as a 
highlight of her experience with Triton Dance Marathon. She detailed a situation from last year’s Triton Dance Marathon, her bright eyes shining with pride and emotion. 
“Something that really touched a lot of us was that one of our 
miracle patients was supposed to come at a certain hour, but she fell sick at the last minute and had to be readmitted to Rady Children’s the night before, ” Lin said. “She sent us a video speaking from her bed and saying how much it meant to her that people were coming 
together to celebrate and support the hospital. It was a way to see how much of an impact this philanthropy makes. ”
One of Lu and Lin’s 
other goals was to establish an event that would be campuswide and all-inclusive, and would foster a sense of teamwork in 
working towards bettering so many children’s lives.
“We’re really proud to partner with Triton Fest. They’ve been 
helping a lot with funding and publicity and getting students out, ” said Lin. “It’s a great cause, but it’s also a great way for the UCSD community to come together to celebrate and have fun with dancing and music. ”
“What sets this philanthropy apart is that it’s so inclusive. It’s 
completely campuswide, ” Lu added. “We have Greek life coming out, athletes coming out, student dance teams and a cappella, all together for one cause. That’s the legacy we hope will continue. The cause is so important, and it’s so great we can bring this entire campus together. ”
At the end of the night, members of the dance team revealed 
posters showing that $3,443 had been raised in support of the children at RCH. Though short of an ambitious goal of $10,000, the money raised is certain to better the lives of children in need.
“The money we raise goes to directly to Rady Children’s, the 
nonprofit. They will put this money toward treatment, to help families afford it, ” Lu said. “We have toured the hospital, and there are a lot of services there that are funded by philanthropy only. For example, the child life specialists, who help explain procedures to the children and comfort them when they’re going into surgery. 
UC San Diego’s 
dancing and singing groups came together to raise money for the children in need at Rady Children’s Hospital.
by Charlotte Armstrong // Staff Writer
“The money raised here tonight allows 
parents, even in their deepest, darkest 
moments, to be just parents, ” Laura said. 
“Grace has no signs of being born early, and 
it’s all because of Rady. ”
The Triton Dance Marathon Fundraiser for 
the Children at Rady Children's HospitalGetting 
Into the 
Groove: PHOTO BY SHIRLEY TAN      
SeeDANCE MARATHON , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
This is what the money is going towards, as well as the 
research. Rady is one of the leading hospitals in the country. ”
Triton Dance Marathon was clearly driven by a 
recognition of what the children at RCH go through every day and a desire to ease their struggle by applying using their talents to create joy and raise money. Lu and Lin have been blown away by the support they’ve gotten.
“I want to shout-out the entire team. The performers, 
families, and also the community sponsors we’ve gotten. Our advisor, Ace Antonio, who is the head of Triton Fest. This event is put on entirely by students, and there’s actually only [16] of us, ” Lu said. “This has been a huge commitment for all of us. ”
Leading the event has made Lu and Lin realize they are part of something bigger than themselves.
“The moment for me was when we went to Rady, 
and we saw what the money was going toward. You meet these amazing children and see what they’re going through, ” Lin said. “Every time I see how strong they are, how much they care about their Rady family, what they’ve gained from it, and how much it has helped them, that’s what motivates [us] to keep doing this. We’re pulling our 
hair out sometimes trying to pull off the event, but it’s all 
worth it for the kids. ”
Four weeks ago, Orr Yakobi was detained by border officials on the 
Mexico-United States border. As a recipient of Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals, Yakobi was technically not allowed to leave the country without 
documentation. After a wrong turn while returning from shopping at Las 
Americas Premium Outlets, he and roommate Ryan Hakim accidentally ended up on a one-way road to Mexico. Yakobi was detained and released after a few days, with much support from the local community.
Now, he looks relaxed, despite midterm season being in full swing. It’s the 
Muir fourth year’s final quarter studying mathematics-computer science.
Prior to being thrust into the limelight, Yakobi was a private person. He 
never actively brought up his experiences but was open to discussing [them] if asked. “If I ran into somebody who asked me about this sort of thing, I’ d answer their questions or dispel anything I thought was wrong — more on a 
personal, not very public, level. I like to keep to myself, ” he explained.
Since then, his perspective on life has changed. Yakobi said he’s become 
more appreciative of his life. While he was detained, he met many different 
types of people who had also been detained for various reasons.
“One of them had a DUI and didn’t have a status, so they got brought there. 
A lot of the time people call [Immigration and Customs Enforcement], and they’ll just come pick you up. For the most part, they were all nice people who got stuck in a bad situation. It was humbling, honestly. Y ou realize, you have, ” he said, gesturing and grabbing a case from the table, “nice headphones and a 
phone, and all this stuff. Thank God for that. These people literally have not 
a cent to their name. ”
He added, “ All these problems you have, like Chipotle ran out of guacamole, 
or something stupid like that — it doesn’t really matter. This situation just made me realize that life is short and you should appreciate what you have. ”
Yakobi did receive a large amount of support from those around him and 
the local community. His parents hired Jacob Sapochnick, an immigration attorney, to help. A few politicians supported the effort to get him released too, including Sen. Kamala Harris. 
“I did [know that people would support me], but at the same time, it’s not 
the first thought that goes through your head. I got detained on Sunday, and I got moved to some other place on Tuesday, and Wednesday or Thursday, I started seeing it on the news myself on the TVs there. I was freaking out. ”
After he was released, Yakobi said there was such a large outpouring of 
support that it was overwhelming.
“Y ou go from being locked up to all of a sudden, everyone’s in your face 
like ‘Oh, what happened? Are you OK?’ It’s not a jail, but you are locked up … Y ou don’t have freedom … I took a few days to unwind and right after that 
I got back into it. The turn of events happened so quickly. The school was 
super helpful. The Dean in Muir really helped me out and reached out to ask if I was OK. ”
While he was certainly not happy about the event that transpired, Yakobi 
explained that he thinks everything happens for a reason. He believes that 
many of his friends and acquaintances have become more supportive of 
DACA after seeing him get detained.
“ At the very least, I’m glad that people saw DACA as not this negative 
thing. A lot of people read the story and reached out to me, saying ‘Before, 
I thought DACA was stupid, ’ and now they reach out and say ‘Y ou really 
brought light to these issues and we get it now. ’”Yakobi denied being an activist, but he is certainly becoming more active. 
“It hits you in the face after something like this, ” he said. 
Putting his computer science and software freelancer skills to use, Yakobi 
is now working with Sapochnick to create a web platform with a social media campaign to support immigrants and dispel negative misconceptions about them.
“I just want to bring light to the whole fact that these are not bad people. 
They’re just like everyone else, trying to live their life, ” he points out. “I was reading a lot of the comments on news posts, Facebook, and Twitter … a lot of it is very negative. And the fact that it’s negative doesn’t bother me, but the fact that it’s not true does bother me a lot, like, ‘immigrants don’t pay taxes. ’ Immigrants pay taxes. Things like this put a negative light on immigrants when they’re just not true. ”
The website is also expected to incorporate software that helps users file 
and renew their DACA status. “We’re in touch with this tech firm that creates immigration software, ” Yakobi explained. “The term they use is the Turbotax for immigration. ”
Yakobi has big dreams for the website. He enthusiastically said Assemblyman 
Todd Gloria was excited about the project when the two met and said it was a good idea.
“It could have some impact if it had some political backing, and I just want 
to get it out there. I hope it will make a difference. ”
For now, he just calls it his “soul project, one of those projects you just work 
on because you’re really dedicated to it, ” he defines. 
In the meantime, Yakobi is also worried about our country’s current 
political affairs. He is getting close to renewing his DACA, but can’t until mid-February.
“It’s kind of a tricky situation, because it’s too early for me to renew. What 
happens is the more you wait … every day something changes. I’m on pins and needles. ”
However, he also believes that there is widespread bipartisan support for 
immigration reform. “From what I’ve seen, they both want a solution from DACA to green card to citizenship, ” Yakobi said, “That’s what I’ve seen on both sides of the aisle. ”
Yakobi’s biggest gripe is the way DACA is tied to other political hot-button 
issues like the wall. 
“The issue I’m really having is all of these back-and-forths and contingencies 
on having the wall and Border Patrol. I don’t like how it’s being bundled. Like, ‘you’ll get DACA but you also need $25 billion for the wall. ’ That’s inhumane and cold. ”
DACA recipients have to worry more about the consequences of their 
actions, whereas the rest of us don’t. In addition to the everyday stresses of college, these students have to deal with a fear of DACA not getting the political support it needs. This quarter is Yakobi’s last at UC San Diego. Now that this whole mess is over, all he wants to do is study for his midterms.
“Do well in school. Lockdown full-time job offer, ” he laughed. “I’m trying 
to get back to my life. ”
timothy deng  tideng@ucsd.eduFREED, DREAMER YAKOBI 
IS A CHANGED MAN
By Timothy Deng // Features Co-Editor
Orr Yakobi, a fter being detained and released at 
the Mexico-United States border, is now working to 
destigmatize immigration with an upcoming project.PHOTO COURTESY OF SEAN PAKNOOSHCharlotte Armstrong  c1armstr@ucsd.edu▶ DANCE MARATHON , from page 6Short and pale and young and lovely, the boy from Leidin goes walking by.
Niel Bezrookove, clad in black, had just 
arrived at my office and sat down with great satisfaction, but seemed 
a bit frazzled. Strange for a student who has over 10 different musical personas and an ever-growing vault of short stories while researching cognitive science. Just before arriving that 
morning, he had been made a public-transport 
chump instead of a champion when three full MTS buses skipped him. Fortunately, sipping his elixir — his daily Arizona Green Tea — had bestowed the student musician with some 
sense of serenity. He began to settle when that 
sweet rush of high-fructose corn syrup hit his stomach. It was time to poke and prod. Was he born an artist destined to achieve a mention on 
Stereogum? Pitchfork? If we’re to take him at his 
mother’s word, yes.
“I guess it started straight out of the womb 
because my mom says I came out singing random s---. The theory is that kids can hear 
things when they’re in the womb, so maybe I 
heard some stuff seeing as my parents are big music junkies. Just music, as far as I know. My dad was into Van Halen, some metal, and his 
electric guitar while my mom was really into 
classical music and Brian Eno, ” he told me.
“There was a pedigree of music, but both my 
parents were refugees so they didn’t really have many opportunities to do something musical 
growing up. So, I think for that reason they 
pushed it onto me pretty early. By the age of four, I got selected to be a boy soprano in the choir and take classical piano lessons but this 
was all in the Netherlands, so this was kind 
of a different atmosphere. A whole lot of old Lutheran s--- in Latin. ”
He wasn’t bound to form or medium, 
however. His Dutch prep school ran its young 
students through the ringer, going so far as to having them perform an unabridged version of 
“ A Midsummer Night’s Dream. ” 
“Theater was the first thing I was into and 
I played Puck in the play. I think we did ‘ A Streetcar Named Desire, ’ too. I wasn’t Brando and I wasn’t Stella, though. Prep school was tough. Y ou had to know Latin just to get into 
university. ”
Bezrookove left both the Dutch and 
school behind at the age of 14 for our shores. 
Unenrolled in the school system and with idle hands, the eastward move incited his initial 
foray into electronic sampling. 
“My dad had a synthesizer that I really loved 
but I wouldn’t even make music on it. I’ d just 
record funny sounds and edit them together. 
My first tape was UFO sounds that I edited 
together. It was very out there. ” 
Bezrookove had broken past the strict 
regimen of practice over play, of getting “better” at music for the sake of improving on it.
“Up to that point, music had been a thing for 
me to perfect after looking at a sheet. Y’know, the instructor would drill me for 60 hours a week on the proper technique and would whack 
me on the hands with a long stick when I hit the 
wrong note, some real ‘Matilda’ s---. ”
TV — teacher, mother, secret lover — had 
stepped in the place of constant practice and school. Now, he spent his days watching hours 
of Comedy Central and using his cousin’s 
antiquated plastic Mac to keep up with the rap music first introduced to him by “Chappelle’s Show. ” American media and culture had pulled 
him from the Netherlands like a modern form 
of cultural pilgrimage with J. Dilla and Erykah Badu as his guiding deities. 
This was all an education in of itself, as a 
literal school soon would be. After two years 
outside of the public school system, he was re-enrolled and used art as a way of lashing 
out. “I did a bit of graffiti with some punk friends, but I wouldn’t call it art because it 
wasn’t necessarily that great. It was more petty 
vandalism. We would also make billboards, write weird s---, and made a lot of skate videos with my dad’s camera. Which I broke. ”
Back in the Netherlands, he had prepared to 
go to college by the age of 12 — the idea being that in three more years he’ d be attending a gymnasium (for the mind, not muscles) before heading off to higher education. “I was already 
studying calculus there, so when I got here, it 
was like, ‘Here’s basic algebra’ and I thought it was such a waste of my time. I would either sleep in class or read and teachers hated that. 
I had a 1.21 GPA in high school. I still got into 
Berkeley and [UC San Diego] because of my SAT scores, but I chose UCSD because I had heard stories from my friend about people poisoning each other and writing fake study 
guides just to sabotage other people’s grades. It 
just didn’t seem nice over there. ”
Bezrookove opted for what can only be 
described as a less stressful environment, in 
relative terms, here at UCSD. With the daily 
benefit of La Jolla’s coastal breeze making its way through his curls, he continued to work on his writing and art. “I just write for the hell of it, but a lot of my stuff is still laboriously written. 
Lyrics, even my comedy all come from my 
writing. Same thing with my Tila Tequila rock opera. I wrote a short story about Tila Tequila travelling back in time to stop a genocide after 
watching Tila Tequila’s ‘ A Shot of Love’ and 
wondering, ‘How would Tila Tequila respond to a real problem?’ That’s when I realized that I could put some music to it. So they’re all part of the same universe in my head. ”
Aside from his excursions into Tequila-land, he’s been asked to create an art exhibit for Sixth College — an immersive experience, as Bezrookove describes it. “The idea is that you 
go into a room with 18 Macs and each one plays 
music that it chooses through a computerized decision process. These computers are then going to try and recreate one of those corny 
cruise commercials where they try to create the 
sense that you’re out at sea with audible breezes, but I want to make an easy listening sea ocean atmosphere without humans involved. ”
Exhausted after a 90-minute reflection on 
his life spanning multiple tangents leading off into “The Simpsons” and “My Big Fat Greek Wedding” references, Bezrookove managed to get a second wind in to share some final 
thoughts on UCSD’s future and what it currently 
offers students. 
“I hope that UCSD doesn’t strangle the life 
out of the Old Student Center here because of what the Food Co-op, KSDT, the [UCSD] 
Guardian, and Darkstar offer. I think the reason 
a lot of millenials feel stressed out is because they don’t feel like they have any control over their lives. ” 
He emphatically argued in favor of 
student-run initiatives as a means of fostering collaboration and community. “Places like this are of a far greater value to somebody’s development and education than what four 
classes could offer. I hope these places go on for 
a long time. I don’t know what the odds are, but I hope they go on. ”
This interview has been edited and condensed 
for clarity.
—  Sam  Velazquez
Senior Staff WriterA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Niel  Bezrookove's 
Cul tural  PilgrimageLeaving  Behind  the Primordial  Borscht: 
PHOTO COURTESY OF ESRA ELHENDY
PHOTO COURTESY OF ESRA ELHENDYDouglas Kenney’s story hits Net flix with jokes and jabs aplenty but ultimately lacking in heart and originality. 
Although he revolutionized America’s 
comedy circuit, Douglas Kenney has an esoteric reputation, for only a few 
fervid, comedy-obsessed fanatics of today know of his cachet. Back in the 1970s, he was an avant-garde comedy writer, the co-founder of the notorious “National Lampoon” satirical 
magazine, the creator of hit farces “ Animal 
House” and “Caddyshack,” and the career-launcher of many notable comedians, such as Chevy Chase, John Belushi, and Bill Murray. Y et, his story is still invisible to contemporary 
pop culture. David Wain’s biopic, “ A Futile and 
Stupid Gesture, ” takes a whimsical approach to showcase Kenney’s influence. The film beams with pride, relishing Kenney’s pioneering 
accomplishments, but unfortunately doesn’t 
effectively deliver the emotional strand of his narrative, leaving no room for viewers to empathize with the comedic genius. 
Will Forte plays Kenney as a sharp-
witted and foolhardy man who co-establishes the household reputation of the “National Lampoon” with his best chum, Henry Beard (Domhnall Gleeson). Wain also casts current, living comedians to play an ensemble of late-great or retired comedy veterans — one being Joel McHale (from “Community”) portraying comic icon Chevy Chase. As Kenney triumphs, 
he stumbles into a state of misery, burdened by 
the pernicious pressure of success and the need for people to admire him. Eventually, he repels Henry, who feels he can’t “babysit” Kenney 
anymore, and his own wife, who catches him 
cheating on her. But his ambitions exacerbate his poor health as the toxicity of attaining Hollywood prosperity and meeting work deadlines drives him into heavy cocaine use. 
Retreating to Hawaii to cleanse himself, Kenney 
meets his fate by the edge of the Kauai precipice. 
Although the film is supposed to be a 
commemoration of the humorous Kenney, it 
comes off as a one-dimensional success tale that 
misses the poignancy of the character’s collapse arc. It is paced like a checklist, ticking off each of his achievements rather than digging into the nuances, motivations, and melancholy mindset 
of the beloved comedian. The movie should 
not have to revolve around the facts of his life, easily found with the click of a mouse. It would be more interesting to glimpse into the ironic side of the plot line which could unveil the despondency of someone so seemingly bright and self-assured. 
The choice of the film’s narrator is also 
nonsensical. Wain has Martin Mull act as an older version of Kenney to chronicle the story, but in real life Kenney passed away at a young age. Mull is ostensibly a gimmick to break the 
fourth wall. He occasionally enters as the elderly, 
wise Kenney, commenting on the questionable decisions he made as a young, ambitious entertainer, like how his past drug abuse was irresponsible and how his recruitment for the 
team of satirists in “National Lampoon” was 
predominantly white. But the gag is extraneous — a seemingly reckless addition to ensure that people who aren’t aware of Kenney’s life do not 
suspect the film’s twist ending and his demise.
Even with its flaws, the movie is an earnest 
retelling of a little-known watershed for 
comedy; it is illuminating to learn of a mordant, candid group who pushed the limits of humor. 
Casual comedy fans can see the transition 
to an anarchic and raucous style of hilarity, and avid comedy enthusiasts can remember a one-of-a-kind funnyman and the collective effort behind his crass and parodic jokes. For instance, the dynamic banter between Kenney and Beard is heartening to watch, which makes their temporary fallout even more dismaying. 
This crew of comedy experts, including P .J. 
O’Rourke, Michael O’Donoghue, and Anne Beatts, redefined comedy, an effort that trickles into today’s culture of cutting-edge wit. 
Its title taken from a line in Kenney’s 
“ Animal House, ” “ A Futile and Stupid Gesture” primarily tips its hat to the brilliantly amusing Doug Kenney. Sadly, the film doesn’t delve into his core character, merely giving us a 
surface-level examination of his life. But, Wain’s 
movie is definitely watchable. It’s silly and outrageous at times, concluding with a scene of black-attired, guffawing attendees having a 
high-spirited, unbefitting food fight at Kenney’s 
funeral. Though this event never occurred in reality, it endearingly pays homage to “ Animal House, ” so perhaps something so churlish and irreverent is exactly what the king of comedy 
wanted to spite death. 
—  Ashley Chen
Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
FILM   REVIEW
A  Futile  and  Stupid  Gesture
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Directed by   David Wain 
Starring  Will Forte, Domhnall Gleeson, Martin Mull, Joel McHale
Release Date  Jan. 26, 2018 
Rated  RCCWith “Blue Madonna, ” Børns avoids the dreaded sophomore slump. This is 
a lean, experimental offering. While still holding on to signature themes of love and the surreal, “Blue Madonna” marks a clear departure from 
“Dopamine, ” a debut album distinguished by saccharine synth and syrupy melodies. 
“God Save Our Y oung Blood” opens with blasting horns as Børns duets with 
guest Lana Del Rey, singing with a melancholic glamour. Børns crusades for the preservation of what’s within us — our youth and innocence — while backed by 
a heavenly orchestra. The tracks afterward come with a sense of urgency, juggling 
themes of mortality, immortality, and everything in between.
The pulsating underlying riff in “Faded Heart” carries the song until “Sweet 
Dreams” replaces it with an MGMT-esque bassline reminiscent of “Electric Feel. ” Here, Børns turns away from pure synth-pop and successfully toys with electro-funk, 
but his lyricism remains topped with sugar. A soothing wistfulness embodies the 
track as the chorus washes in and he croons angelically, “Y ou didn’t even call to wish me sweet dreams. ” 
The experimentation continues in “We Don’t Care, ” a track clearly influenced by 
’60s rock bands. Nonetheless, Børns maintains his usual underlying sensuality with the warbling lyrics “We don’t care” and “Touch me, ” even while battling against a growing and grating guitar. “Blue Madonna” returns to its buzzing, psychedelic feel in “Man. ” While the rhythm sounds are recycled from “Past Lives, ” off Børns’s last album, the beats continue to pop, bubbly and bright and still laced with effervescence.
“Iceberg” returns to more earthly matters, digging deep into Børns’ ideal 
relationship as he compares love and art to a perfectly rolled joint. He reveals his glam-rock inspirations in the bridge with idiomatically disguised lyrics. Afterwards, the album melts into the aftermath of heartbreak. “Second Night of Summer” and “I Don’t W ant U Back” dip into the murky waters of loneliness and gloom. Though the 
quick interlude “Tension” cuts through the woes of songs past with its bright refrain, 
the best of “Blue Madonna” reveals itself in “Supernatural. ” Balancing reality and unreality, it crafts an ambience evocative of weightlessly swimming in a state of limbo; in the meantime, Børns searches for the truth. Børns unveils his impeccable range, a 
culmination of inhuman high notes with siren-like qualities, while he tumbles down 
from grace, hitting every drum beat on the way down.
Finally, the album closes with the sentiments of the title track “Blue Madonna, ” 
looping back to “God Save Our Y oung Blood” and “Bye-bye Darling, ” which acts as the finisher. Tinged with tenderness, the chorus climbs higher and higher as Børns 
showcases his trademark falsetto while crooning about the inevitability of the end of 
all things, “We had a good run, darling, don’t you cry. ”
Strangely enough, nearly every track brings about a state of deja vu in the first 
few seconds. Whether a result of nostalgia, a display of Børns’ clear influences, 
or a product of impeccable producing, the impression is comforting. With “Blue 
Madonna” venturing into the celestial, it’s clear that the next album is written somewhere in the stars. 
—  Jahfreen  Alam
 Staff Writer
Blue  Madonna
by  Børns
Release Date  Jan. 12, 2018
The “Electric Love” singer travels beyond the earthly realm for his sophomore album, landing somewhere near the clouds.ALBUM   REVIEW
B+10                                    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
triton outifttersSHOP
to.ucsd.edunew winter lineIn an episode of “Gilmore Girls, ” one of the main characters, Rory, goes through a devastating 
teenage breakup. Rory’s mother, Lorelai, insists that her daughter take time to wallow, but Rory 
refuses. Instead, she throws herself into a variety of distracting activities, often bringing her mom along. This lasts for about a week, until she finally breaks down with a tub of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and announces that she’s finally ready to be sad.
Breakups with significant others have a pertinent role in media today. Many TV and movie 
couples break up in exaggerated ways in order to show how difficult coping with a breakup may be. Although romantic breakups are difficult, there are other relationship fallouts that should also be 
recognized, including friend breakups.
Some friend breakups can be easier. Maybe it was a natural parting, or a friend moved away. 
Maybe it was a toxic friendship, and a decision had to be made to cut them out. Maybe it was a 
mutual realization that the casual friendship wasn’t worth holding on to. But the friend breakups that aren’t easy are the ones that include friends you always thought you would have.
At least, that was where I found myself this past summer. During my teenage years, I knew 
three things for certain: my favorite food was pizza, my cat Hazy was (and still is!) the best pet ever, and my two best friends would always be there for me. When I reached my third year of college, I realized that those two friends were no longer by my side, and the decision was not mutual. As someone who fears change and loves consistency, I was disoriented because of the absence of friends I had grown accustomed to talking to every day. I realized that society has never really taught us how to deal with a friend breakup, or how to properly break up with a friend. Because of this lack of knowledge on what true friend breakups were, I felt like I was overreacting and that I was the only one going through this.
If you’re dealing with a friend breakup, know that you are not alone. Like Rory, it is okay to 
wallow in self-pity, just as you might for a breakup with a significant other. Both friendships and romantic relationships involve a level of vulnerability and trust, which can make losing a friendship just as difficult as a breakup. The difference is that friendships are always portrayed as something easy, when communication is just as important in friendships as it is between couples. In my experience, I found that giving myself a brief period to reflect and be alone was the best medicine in allowing me to feel better. A grieving process is necessary, because the first step to recovery is admitting to the emotions being felt. Watch rom-coms, eat lots of ice cream, have potato chips for dinner. Giving yourself time to feel sad will not make you feel better instantly, but it will help you 
accept what has happened.
Once you’ve given yourself time to grieve, allow yourself to reflect on the friendship. Although it 
can be uncomfortable to think about your mistakes when you’re already sad, remember that you did 
your best to be a good friend throughout the entire friendship, and that you were kind, respectable, 
and 100 percent you. If you find that you have made a mistake, don’t wallow in self-blame, but use what you have learned and apply it to your current and future friendships.
What happens if you want to break up with a friend? In extreme cases, such as with toxic 
friendships, it is OK to simply cut off the friendship. However, if there is a specific event that is upsetting, and you care about them and value their friendship, be communicative. Tell them what’s 
bothering you instead of letting it boil up. Maybe they’ll correct their behavior, or maybe they’ll 
realize that they cannot change. Y ou cared about this person at some point in your life, and they deserve some gentle explanation as to why you feel the friendship isn’t worth saving anymore.
Overall, friend breakups can be brutal on both sides, and it takes time to fully get over them. 
Remember that at this stage in our lives, we’re all trying to become who we are meant to be, and this occasionally requires a change in who we surround ourselves with. Friends should always be those who encourage you to be the best version of yourself, allowing you to grow as a person. Although I am sad to see my two most important friendships gone, I constantly remind myself that they probably did what they felt was best for them. I’m trying new things, focusing on school and work, 
and (most importantly) working on being a good friend with the friendships I still have. And while 
I’m still getting used to the idea that I don’t have these friends anymore, I am going to be OK, and you will be too.
I sit in front of my banged-up laptop, the Netflix-produced glow shining in the 3 a.m. 
darkness. An episode of “The Office” plays absently, my mind drifting on how Pam and Jim had been so perfectly casted to create such a heartwarming chemistry.
However, I remember an article I read several months ago — one that revealed that Jim was 
originally supposed to be Asian, and Pam had several black women audition for the role.
With all due respect for Jim and Pam’s actors, (who are still undeniably cute), it continues to 
bother me that diverse casts are often discarded for the cookie-cutter white, heteronormative formula that has perpetuated throughout media. Why couldn’t Pam be black? What was stopping them from creating the same-level chemistry with two people of color?
White-dominated media stems back to the early 1940s; it did not reach its peak until after 
WWII, when the push for a “pure” suburban image was essential in marketing new suburbs to white people. Television can be thought of as extension of reality, and when the reality you portray is predominantly heterosexual whiteness, it distorts the outside world to not only white 
people but people of color. Mary Beth Haralovich’s essay on “Sitcoms and suburbs: Positioning 
the 1950s homemaker” fleshes this out more.
The influence of these all-white shows extends to even popular classics like “Friends, ” “Full 
House, ” and more relevant examples like “How I Met Your Mother” and “The Office. ” People of color may have made appearances due to these shows being aired in more “progressive” time periods, but were reduced to toxic stereotypes or used to elevate the characterization of the white leads. Their reality was summed up as nothing more than tropes that did nothing to legitimize our existence in both spaces (the TV and reality.) This is why diversity has picked 
up in the recent years and should be celebrated — to rectify the damaging reality white-washed 
media has implanted into society.
While “The Office” may fail to address these issues, there are still rising contemporary shows 
that give underrepresented voices an outlet.
“Brooklyn Nine-Nine” is a comedy show detailing the (chaotic) life of detectives in the 
New York Police Department. While the program does center on police forces, it highlights issues surrounding the department like police brutality, institutionalized racism, and abuse of 
authoritative powers. In one episode, Terry Jeffords is arrested for wearing a gray hoodie and 
“looking suspicious, ” a prominent issue that stems from racial profiling in law enforcement.  Additionally, the show talks about sexuality, intersectional feminism, and other varying issues. 
Despite the dysfunctional nature of the show, most of the cast is diverse in terms of gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. These are well-rounded, dynamic characters that have their own characterization, not just some side characters that are simply there to satisfy a “diversity quota. ” Captain Ray Holt is a gay black man that holds a position of authority as leader of his own squad. Rosa Diaz is a bisexual Latina that is a renowned detective and terrifying fighter, a quality that 
assists her in apprehending mob bosses throughout the seasons. Each character exhibits little 
quirks and has their own narratives that is relatable to a wide range of audiences. While the show is halfway through its fifth season, I do not believe its anywhere close to being finished. This gives them chances to add more voices that have been marginalized (and fans have encouraged them to do so!).
“The Runaways” — a Hulu-original series that recently aired last year — is another 
recommended media with a diverse cast and engaging plotline. Set in the Marvel universe, a group of teens discover their parents are in a destructive cult and must band together in order to prevent the world from succumbing to their parents’ plans (and in hopes to “save them” as well). 
The main cast, (which includes both kids and adults), are of varying races and ethnicities, all of 
which hold significant roles in their respective groups (the kids being the “heroic” force against their parents). For example, Tina Minoru is a powerful witch and acts as one of the grounding leaders of the adult cult. Nico Minoru, her daughter, leads the main teen group in challenging their parents’ authority and keeping their group together (along with Alex, another member). Both represent needed Asian-American women roles that are not boiled down to submissive portrayals or the infamous “colored-hair streak” trope that “rebellious” Asian women have. While the show could work on its pacing issues, it’s second season has enough time to rectify 
this and explore more of its cast’s individual stories.
Representation in media is not something to gloss over; its relevance, execution, and 
popularity is significant to the audiences it aims to capture. Television is a reflection of dominant 
reality, and when most shows depict the lives of heteronormative white lives, it is an exclusive reality that is not felt widely. This would not be as important if it had not been this way for the last 75 years — a whitewashed reality that fails to portray the same stories for LGBTQ people of color. It is damaging and aims to delegitmize their existence; this is why positive representation 
must be boosted, understood, and spread. While we are an experience that exists outside of 
television, seeing ourselves on screen and our stories told is nothing short of refreshing. 
As a queer Filipinx, I still wait for the day to see major Filipinx representation on screen. I 
know it will come, but only if we give opportunities to these voices in the industry.Written by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Contributing Writer
Written by Elizabeth Adams // Lifestyle Contributing WriterHow To: Coping with a Friend Breakup
Your Life on the Screen: Representation in MediaLIFESTYLE                        T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
Last fall, the temporary housing situation for transfer 
students was exposed through multiple news sources, but not 
everyone knows the exact hardships they faced.
My first step onto UC San Diego was during Transfer 
Triton Day. Like many first-year students, I was amazed by 
the architecture of Geisel Library and what seemed like the 
neverending, gorgeous Library Walk. The aesthetic of The 
Village, a building specifically designated to house transfer 
students, captured my attention. I knew I could spend my remaining undergraduate years here. Raised in San Jose, my knowledge of San Diego is slim, and so I applied to live on campus at The Village, knowing that I could ease into my 
first year in a four-year university and join the UCSD campus 
community with other transfer students. 
Around late August, an email containing my housing 
assignment came. With no immediate explanation, I was 
assigned to a place I had never heard of — North Mesa. A 
quick Google search led to the discovery that North Mesa is graduate student housing about two miles away from campus. With only a month left until school would start, I had no choice but to accept what was given to me. Housing, 
Dining and Hospitality promised that students placed in 
temporary housing would be relocated back on campus by Nov. 1 and as compensation, it offered everyone a parking permit valid only in the Mesa Housing. 
Upon arrival, I immediately noticed the deteriorating 
condition the apartment was in. From a paper posted on the door, I learned that the building I was supposed to call “home” was planned for demolition in March 2018. The interior of the apartment had major flaws: A pipe sticking 
out from a wall replaced the showerhead, two of the four 
stovetops were not fully functioning, small tables instead of desks were provided, and various mysterious black stains covered the floor. Since North Mesa is not on campus, 
students needed to wait and catch a 15-minute shuttle bus 
ride (that operates only on weekdays) every day to class. The Village is filled with many activities allowing students Written by Rebecca Tsang // Lifestyle Contributing WriterThe Truth About Temporary Housing
to socialize, but being in North Mesa separated me from 
attending these events. Additionally, I was obligated to purchase Dining Dollars, which I rarely had the opportunity 
to use because only on-campus locations accept them. A food 
truck that accepts Dining Dollars was provided; however, it 
has extremely limited operating hours and food selections 
— I missed dinner several times as the food truck was 
unavailable. 
Two months after settling into North Mesa and in the 
middle of midterms, I received a notification from HDH 
on Nov. 6 that a permanent housing placement was made available for me. I was given the option to accept the offer 
in three days and move out within one week or my housing 
contract would be terminated. Frantic, I called HDH and kindly asked to extend my move out date so I could finish my midterms peacefully. The response was an ill-mannered “I will see what I can do. ”
Living in The Village with other transfer students is 
ideally where I want to be. Currently, I am placed in an 
apartment with international students at varying grade 
levels who all speak a different language than me. I thought 
UCSD respected transfer students, however, the treatment 
I received from HDH proves my initial impression entirely false. Hopefully, all of the transfer students who experienced temporary housing are now at their ideal location, but I know that I am not. More leniency about the purchase of Dining 
Dollars or placing students with respect to their common 
interests should be the very least HDH does. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD12                                    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Who else used to love reading as a kid, yet can’t be bothered to do it now? Now, with jobs, 
internships, and homework taking up so much time, something as intellectually intensive as 
reading falls low on the priority list. Countless college students often dread doing assigned readings, and there’s rarely any time to complete them. So what happened to make reading such a difficult task? The answer isn’t a simple one, but I’m looking back on my own life to find the cause for myself. 
To be honest, I was into reading from a very young age. Though my memory is a bit hazy, I’m 
pretty sure I started reading from the moment I learned the alphabet. My idol in first grade was Junie B. Jones, and the “Magic Tree House” series was basically my religion. I distinctly remember 
ordering new books every time the Scholastic book orders made their rounds, checking the boxes 
with reckless abandon. And when it came time for the book fair, forget about it — I wouldn’t talk about anything else for the whole week. 
Middle school was heaven for my literary side, with silent reading time every day and the 
school’s extensive library. I pored over series like “Harry Potter” and “The Clique, ” though there are countless other titles that I couldn’t recall now even if I tried. We were encouraged to read independently, so I took full advantage of every opportunity. In eighth grade, I earned the most Accelerated Reader points in my English class, meaning that I took a short quiz for every book I 
read, earning points for every one I passed. Reading was a choice for me, and I loved every second 
of it. 
So what happened? How did reading go from feeling like breathing to being such a chore? 
Trying to read for pleasure during the quarter is rare, and I have to actively try to start new books during school breaks. And don’t even get me started on doing less-than-riveting readings for classes. I think this process of becoming distanced from reading began in high school, when the amount of assigned books began to increase. Reading was associated with mandatory assignments and required more energy to complete. Other factors contributed as well, I no longer had silent reading time every day, and my high school library was subpar at best. But the biggest deterrent for me  — and I’m sure many others — was the feeling of dread that comes from being forced to 
read something that I have little to no interest in. If reading was initially an activity that revolved 
around my choice, that choice was taken away with the implementation of assigned reading. Being told to do something tends to take the fun out of it, even if it used to be one of the most fun things 
in the world. 
For people like me who no longer have time to read or have lost interest over the years, I still 
think there’s hope. Trying to pick up a new book after a long time can feel like an endeavor, but the 
effort can pay off. Personally I read more this past summer than I did over the entire year, delving into some of Haruki Murakami’s best works. In my opinion, “ After Dark” and “Norwegian Wood” stood out the most, but there are so many choices among what he’s written. Some of his stuff was a bit challenging, and I considered giving up at times but felt proud of myself after having finished each book. “1Q84” in particular was a struggle, with its slower pacing that took place over the span 
of over 900 pages. It was a bit too abstract and meta for me at times, but I’m glad I stuck with it. 
As long as I continue to take advantage of my windows of free time, I think I can keep my 
passion for reading alive. Growing older means growing busier, and I think it’s natural that I can’t 
read as often as I used to. I’ll need to put in more work to continue this hobby that I still love, which means that it’s a goal worth pursuing. In the end, I know I’ll be glad that I did.
In need of a few ideas to explore more of San Diego and make the most of February? Read on for 
a few peeks and previews of what’s headlining and happening, both on and off campus. 
Feb. 9, 2018: A Raisin in the Sun Opening (Mandeville Auditorium, 7:30 p.m.)
This iconic American play, written by Lorraine Hansberry and directed by Kim Rubinstein, 
unearths the story of the Y ounger family living in Chicago. Together, they navigate racial relationships, intersectional roles, family dynamics and systemic injustice. The show runs until February 17 and is $10 for UCSD students. Feb. 9 to Feb. 11, 2018: Lunar New Y ear Festival 2018 (SDCCU Stadium, 5-10 p.m. on Friday, 
11 a.m.-10 p.m. on Saturday, and 11 a.m.-8 p.m. on Sunday)
Hosted by the Little Saigon San Diego Foundation, this Lunar New Y ear celebration includes 
food, vendors, art, carnival attractions, and performances like the traditional lion dance. Tickets 
are $6 for all San Diego adults, or free for those in “complete military uniform” or born in the Y ear 
of the Dog. 
Feb. 10, 2018: Mermaid Half Marathon SD (South Shores Park, 6-11 a.m.)
Still on that resolution-fitness high? This women’s 5K, 10K and half-marathon run follows the 
San Diego Bay along Mission Bay Drive, Fiesta Island, De Anza Cove, Rose Creek, Crown Point Park, and Tecolote Shores. Bonus: This run happens in a flat course, a welcomed topography considering the mountains of UC San Diego we canvas each day. The cost ranges from $15-90 depending on the race. Finishers receive a shirt, medal, and a necklace. Feb. 10, 2018: Hillcrest Mardi Gras 2018 (Hillcrest at University Avenue and 3rd Avenue, 7-10 
p.m.)
With all that energy following the run, check out the Hillcrest Mardi Gras celebration. For 
the 21+ crowd, this event promises a good time, so come for beads, food, and drinks, including a neighborhood bar crawl via hop-on, hop-off party bus. Pre-sale tickets are $15 until Feb. 10 or $25 at the event, including cover charges.Feb. 15 to Feb. 25, 2018: San Diego Theatre Week (Locations and times depending on venue 
and performance)
Mirroring January’s Restaurant Week, SD Theatre Week is a time to showcase more than 30 
local playwrights, actors, and directors from various performing arts organizations like La Jolla Playhouse, The Old Globe, Point Loma Playhouse, and even UCSD’s Department of Theatre and 
Dance. Featured plays include “The Importance of Being Earnest, ” “The Cake, ” “ Addams Family, ” 
“Vietgone, ” and “I Love Y ou Because. ” Contact artstix@sdpal.com for ticket pricing and locations. 
Feb. 22, 2018: ArtPower Presents Alsarah & The Nubatones (PC East Ballroom, 8 p.m.)
Alsarah is a musician celebrating East African retro-pop who was born in Sudan, grew up in 
Y emen, and is now planted in Brooklyn, New Y ork. Playing “songs of return” to give music to migration, Alsarah & The Nubatones create an upbeat and ephemeral cross-cultural experience with songs like “Nuba Noutou” and “Soukura It’s Late. ” Tickets are $9 for UCSD students and registration is required by the day of the concert. Written by Jade Hookham // Lifestyle Contributing Writer
Written by Lifestyle Writing TeamHow to Revive an Old Love for Reading
Peeks and PreviewsCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ALECK KARIS Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 5 - FEB 112018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
21ST ANNUAL BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH CELEBRATION - PC WEST, RED SHOE ROOM, OCEANVIEW RESTAURANT, THURGOOD MARSHALL COLLEGE
This year, our Black History Celebration is an 
all-day event! Come for lunch, stay for dinner, all the while enjoying art, music, dance, spoken word, 
and a delicious special menu. Contact: 
j1andrews@ucsd.edu
2pm
INVENTING 101 W/ JAMES CAIRNS- 
THE BASEMENT, MANDEVILLE
Award winning Physicist/Oceanographer Dr. James 
L. Cairns (PhD '74) is a lifelong inventor with more 
than 60 issued and pending U.S. Patents. Cairns 
describes how to get started in a rewarding profession of being an inventor, how to avoid serious mistakes, and how to protect and cash in on inventions. Contact: thebasement@ucsd.edu
3pm
QUARTERLY CONVERSATIONS: 
OPIOID EPIDEMIC - GREAT HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Our 2018 Winter Quarterly Conversations in Global 
Health will be focused on the topic of The Opioid Epidemic! The US is the worlds leader in opioid 
misuse, with 12.5 million people having misused 
prescription opioids in 2015, according to the US 
Health and Human Services Agency. Come hear from experts on the topic about what this means for global health and how we can stop this crisis from becoming a worldwide pandemic. Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
6pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
FINE CHOCOLATE TASTING - PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM EAST
Come join us for this FREE, fun, and interactive 
chocolate tasting and let your taste buds be surprised! You'll learn about the origins of chocolate, how it's made, how to taste chocolate, and much more!!! By the end of this, you'll be an expert chocolate connoisseur! So come out to this FREE event and don't forget to bring your UCSD Student ID and look out for an Eventbrite ticket link so you can RSVP! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
ALECK KARIS - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Free for UCSD students! Aleck Karis presents a 
rare opportunity to hear, in its entirety, Claude Debussys final piano masterpiece, the twelve tudes. Among the most colorful and evocative works ever written for piano, they are also daring musical explorations which stretch the boundaries of harmony and form. Contact: boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
12pm
16TH ANNUAL PAPER THEATRE 
FESTIVAL - SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
The smallest show on Earth! This scale-model 
educational toy is being re-discovered and celebrated at a free weekend-long festival and exhibition. Paper theatre, also called table top theatre or toy theatre, dates back to the Victorian Era. Families constructed these theatres from poster kits with scripts, scenery sheets and paper doll actors included. Contact: spaulson@ucsd.edu2pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: FREE SPEECH 
& THE FIRST AMENDMENT - ERC 
ROOM, PC WEST
Take part in what is surely to be a lively 
discussion about the First Amendment to the 
U.S. Constitution and the right of free speech 
and expression. Learn what federal, state and local government and public officials can and cannot do on and off campus - about what people say and when, where and how they say it! Contact: sls@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: THE 
CALIFORNIA INNOCENCE PROJECT 
- MARSHALL ROOM, PC WEST
Come learn from CIP attorney Audrey McGinn 
about the amazing work done by the California Innocence Project and hear how she found herself working on some of the biggest exoneration cases of the last decade. This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Contact: sls@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE LOFT 
- THE LOFT, PC EAST
"The quarterly open-mic night brought to you by 
UCSD AS Concerts & Events." Come enjoy the local talent around campus, get inspired, and relax with good, raw Tuesday night vibes. Free flatbread pizza and fries brought to you by Zanzibar at the Loft! Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
STUDENT HEALTH ADVOCATE 
PROGRAM RECRUITMENT WEEK - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
The Student Health Advocates (SHA) are trained, 
volunteer peer health educators who educate other students on topics such as stress, sexual health, alcohol, drugs, healthy eating, sleep and more! Stop by one of our Application Info Sessions to learn how you can join our team. Contact: eokamura@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS AND ASCE 
PRESENT: R.LUM.R - THE LOFT, PC EAST
Unlock the straight-A student within you! At this 
workshop, we'll reveal study strategies -- uncovered by learning scientists -- that help you learn MORE information in LESS time. These strategies work for all types of classes. Contact: scp008@ucsd.eduTUE2.06
THU2.08
SAT2.10MON 2.05
1:30pm
RIDE TO FREEDOM - PC WEST, 
MARSHALL COLLEGE ROOM
Today millions of children are still persecuted 
and orphaned in China. Many are forced to abandon homes, becoming orphaned after their parents were caught practicing faith. The journey of these young heroes has been made into this documentary, RideToFreedom. It has a mission to save these children and create awareness about the persecution. Through world-wide awareness and public pressure on the Party this mission can be achieved. Contact: xizhan@ucsd.edu
7pm
DVC PRESENTS: BAEWATCH - THE 
LOFT, PC EAST
Single and ready to mingle? Night out with the crew? Want to jam out to today's hits? Come out to DVC's annual Valentines Dance -- Baewatch! FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
A RAISIN IN THE SUN - MANDELL 
WEISS THEATRE
A classic of the American stage, A Raisin in the Sun follows Walter Younger and his family in Chicago, each feeling confined by their physical home space and the social roles they’ve been assigned. When an insurance payout after the death of the family’s patriarch offers an opportunity to improve their lives, individual priorities and how they affect others come into question. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu3pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: THE LAW 
SCHOOL EXPERIENCE - YEARS 1, 2, 
AND 3. - ERC ROOM, PC WEST
The Assistant Dean for Law Student Affairs at 
USD School of Law will discuss all aspects of the 
law school experience including highlights from 
all three years, internships, externships, clerkships, working in legal clinics, on-campus interviews, finding your summer job, on-campus interviews, and more! Contact: sls@ucsd.edu
4pm
SO YOU WANT TO BE THE NEXT 
STUDENT REGENT? - THE FORUM, 
PRICE CENTER EAST, LEVEL 4
Every year, one student is selected to serve as 
the Student Regent on the Board of Regents of the University of California. This individual, 
conjointly selected by the principal governing 
bodies of the UC system, attends all board 
meetings, maintains full voting power, and enjoys waived university fees whilst they serve 
as a Regents-designate and as a member of the 
Board.  Find out what it takes to be the next 
Regent. Free food from Taco Villa will be served. Contact: aspr@ucsd.edu
6pm
ISSUES OF IDENTITY: IN 
CONVERSATION WITH HILTON ALS - MANDELL WEISS THEATRE
In celebration of Black History Month, the UC 
San Diego Department of Theatre and Dance is pleased to announce Pulitzer Prize-winning writer and critic Hilton Als in a public event. The conversation will be between Mr. Als and Dr. Gentry Patrick, UC San Diego professor of neurobiology, with opportunities for questions and observations from the public. The conversation will focus on issues of racial identity, gender and access to the American dream. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu
7pm
II-HEART: NAILS - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
A panel about gender expression and community 
organizing in the nail industry. The panel will include an organizer, UCSD Women's Center intern, and student speaker. There will also be an interactive nail art activity at the end of the program! Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu=FRI2.09WED2.07CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
DID YOU
KNOW?FEB 9 - National Pizza DayCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Flower feature
6. “____ Window”10. Seafood choice
14. Wed secretly
15. Bullets, for short
16. Sled17. Female singers18. Blot
19. Many (2 wds.)
20. Staggers
21. Relevant23. Tennis stroke25. Wind instrument
26. Bread choice
27. Apache chief
31. Small quantity33. Lyricist Gershwin34. Roman tyrant
36. Common contraction
40. Ancestry
43. Zodiac sign45. Lawful46. Floor piece48. Fourth mo.49. Disencumber51. Hogwash54. Health resort57. Garden plots59. Little bit60. Conclude63. Speech problems67. On a voyage68. News bit69. Tiny landmass70. EMT’s word71. Stitched line72. Clatter73. Emcee74. Whirlpool75. BestowDOWN
 1. Fleshy fruit2. Fashion magazine3. Carry
4. NASA program
5. School assignment
6. Scrape roughly7. Monarch8. Love (Ital.)
9. Decomposed
10. Tribe
11. King, e.g.12. Pain13. Actress ____ Davis
22. Potato state
24. Singer ____ Crosby
27. Fish feature28. Famous canal29. Used the doorbell
30. Get together
32. Salad ____
35. Capital of Norway37. Reach across38. Bites39. Ripped41. Corn serving42. Excuse44. Penny47. As a substitute50. Actress ____ Richards52. Briny53. Light bulb inventor54. Stockpile55. Green sauce56. Zones58. Saw socially61. Actor ____ Damon62. Television award64. Glided65. Acapulco coin66. Hearty soupHOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - 
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments community in San Diego offers pet-friendly one and two bedroom apart -
ment homes with comfortable, spacious, and bright open floor plans.Our commu -
nity features a large sparkling swimming pool, beautiful courtyards, BBQ areas, free reserved parking, on-site laundry facility, on-site management, 24 hour emergency maintenance, WiFi hotspots available in common areas through Cox Communications......ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 
- $3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, CA 92115. These floor plans include spacious one, two and three bed -
rooms, some poolside or upgraded. Being located in the heart of the college area you will find shopping centers, banks, a library, schools, freeways and more. Enjoy amenities such as a refreshing Olympic 
sized swimming pool, 24 hour emergen-
cy maintenance, on-site laundry facili -
ties, WIFI hotspots in the common areas through Cox Communications, a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE assigned parking, a refreshing pool and BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emergency maintenance, and a courtyard fountain. We hope you will call or stop by and we look forward to 
making The Diplomat your new home!....
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
PART TIME JOBS
Accounting clerk. BalaCent LLP . Carlsbad, CA 92011. Data enter Accounts Payable and reconcile credit cards. 8 hours per week. Prefer Accounting Student. If can -
didate shows promise more hours may 
be possible. Flexible hours to fit student’s 
schedule.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Part Time Recreational Gymnastics 
Coaches. Emerald City Academy of Rhythmic Gymnastics. San Diego, CA 92131. Looking for that special person 
with an upbeat, energetic personality. 
Enthusiasm required! The ideal candi -
date has gymnastics experience, loves children, and has a flexible schedule. Coaching experience preferred but we will train the right person. Must enjoy working in an environment with children and parents and be able to communicate with both.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Independent Medical Sales Rep (1099). 
Script Relief. San Diego, CA 92101 USA. We’re looking for enthusiastic sales reps to 
go to doctors’ offices and leave behind kits of these cards at the reception desk and 
other accessible areas. In order to facilitate 
the process for our reps, our sales team 
uses a special website that provides list -ings of available doctors in your area. We 
will also provide training to acclimate you 
to the whole business.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Used 2006 Mazda Mazda6 Grand Sport 
i. San Diego, CA 92111. The impressive 
Mazda fuel-efficiency will make you 
quickly realize what youve been miss -
ing out on in life. Its noteworthy fuel 
economy and minimal emissions make 
this vehicles value a cut above the rest. In addition to being well-cared for, this 
Mazda Mazda6 has very low mileage 
making it a rare find....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, 
CA 92110. 4D Crew Cab, Some rebates 
may require you to finance through our preferred lender, Price includes: $1,000 - General Motors Consumer Cash Program. 
Exp. 01/31/2018, $1,000 - Silverado 
Incremental Consumer Cash....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Toyota RAV4 for sale. San 
Diego, CA 92115. Black 2015 Toyota RAV4 
LE FWD six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i 120 Point Inspection & Full Detail Performed, Gas $aver, Brakes Serviced, 
Bluetooth, RAV4 LE, 4D Sport Utility, 2.5L 
four Cyl DUAL OVERHEAD CAM Dual VVT-i, six Gear Automatic, FWD, Black, Gray Cloth.Clean CARFAX, Clear title, ASE 
Certified Complete Inspection. Recent 
Arrival!...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
one cam pus
one co uncil
one comm unitySPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Philadelphia’ s football team may be called 
the Eagles, but this year, they are the dogs — the 
underdogs. Going into Super Bowl LII against the New England Patriots, the Eagles, to put it bluntly, are not the favorite to win: Five ThirtyEight has the 
Eagles losing by at least 2.5 points, W estgate Las V egas has them losing by four, and Caesars Palace predicts a loss by 4.5.
The Eagles are no strangers to playing against 
the odds. Throughout the season, the Eagles were 
underdogs five times: weeks one, two, six, 11, 
and 14 (Five ThirtyEight). In all but one game, 
the Eagles overcame the odds, outscoring their opponents 158–111. What can we make of this trend? Unfortunately for the Eagles, not much. In all five games, Philadelphia had the wunderkind 
Carson W entz under center. In his sophomore season, W entz is putting together career numbers: 3,296 passing yards and a 33–7 touchdown-to-interception ratio. A dynamic passer and runner, W entz seemed to have already punched the Eagles’ ticket to the Super Bowl. But that all came crashing down during their week-14 game against the Rams, where W entz tore his anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. And just like that, the former MVP 
front-runner and leader of this Eagles team was out for the rest of the season. Since the loss of W entz, the Eagles’ playo ff potential has been in question. 
Who was going to replace him? Could he ever be as good? In comes backup quarterback Nick Foles. Foles is four seasons removed from his 2013 Pro Bowl season — where he posted the third-highest passer rating and the best touchdown-to-interception ratio in NFL history — but he hasn’t played signi ficantly since an underwhelming 2015 
season with the then-St. Louis Rams. Going into the playo ffs, Foles was the Eagles’ biggest question 
mark.
Historically, backup quarterbacks have not 
done poorly in the playo ffs. Big names, like T erry 
Bradshaw and Kurt Warner, started o ff as second-
stringers who took their teams on unexpected playoffs runs. An injury to Drew Bledsoe early 
in the Patriots’ 2001 season forced a young sixth-round pick out of Michigan into the starting lineup; this backup would eventually lead the Patriots to their first Super Bowl title. His name 
was T om Brady. In 2013, Foles, still on the Eagles, replaced Michael Vick in week five and took his 
team to the playo ffs as well. But Foles situation 
now is very di fferent from that of 2013. Unlike the 
examples above, Foles was forced into the starting lineup late in the season. With late season roster changes, teams have less time to adjust and prepare for the playo ffs: backups get snaps and experience 
with the first-string o ffensive for the first time in 
weeks, o ffensive plans need to be changed, and 
teams are frantic and scrambled. If we look at backup quarterbacks who has started less than five 
games in the season, the outlook is much bleeker. Since 1990, backup quarterbacks have gone 11–21; only one has won a Super Bowl (Bet Labs Sports).
Foles outperformed all expectations in 
the playo ffs, defeating the Atlanta Falcons in 
the divisional round and then the Minnesota Vikings for the NFC title. Foles averaged a 77.75 completion percentage, 299 yards-per-game, and posted a 3–0 touchdown-to-interception ratio. Foles’ performance wasn’t spectacular, but it was enough. In combination with their stellar defense, the Eagles managed to pull through to get to the Super Bowl. The Eagles have hope. They heard the 
world call them underdogs, and they overcame. 
Throughout the season, the Eagles haven’t 
exactly been true underdogs. They have incredible 
talent on both sides of the ball. All-Pros and Pro Football Focus’ s O-Line of the Y ear Lane Johnson and Jason Kelce head Philadelphia’s o ffensive line, 
while All-Pro nose-tackle Fletcher Cox leads this year’s number one rushing defense. Lastly, Pro-Bowler Jay Ajayi and ex-Patriot LeGarrette Blount are the leaders of their dynamic and varied rushing attack. This Sunday, however, the Eagles are truly 
underdogs. The Eagles face the football juggernaut 
of T om Brady, Bill Belichick, and the post-season New England Patriots. Brady — the ageless wonder — is seeking his sixth Super Bowl ring; the Eagles have yet to win their first. At age 40, Brady 
is playing the best ball of his career and he isn’t showing signs of slowing down. Brandin Cooks, Danny Amendola, and Chris Hogan round out a solid group of wide receivers and Rob Gronkowski is the best tight-end in the league. Belichick is the mastermind of game planning, with a keen understanding of the nuances of football and excels at taking away the strengths of his opponents.
The Eagles know they are underdogs, but 
they’ve embraced it. No other player seems to have taken to this new underdog identity more than former Patriot and defensive-end Chris Long. A fter their divisional round victory against 
the Falcons (where the Falcons were favored by 2.5 points according to sports-betting website OddsShark), Long and several other Eagles players put on rubber dog masks to celebrate their win. In the subsequent game against the Vikings, Long was also seen on the sideline, barking at the crowd at the end of the third quarter. Still in his hyper-realistic German Shepherd mask, reporters asked Long about the masks: “People are terri fied, ” Long 
told them.
Long may be right. The Eagles are so talented 
and their season has worked out so perfectly — it almost feels like destiny for them to win this Sunday. But, they face their greatest challenge yet: T om Brady. Brady has as much Super Bowl experience as the entire Eagles team, 54 comeback victories, and an unrivaled sense and knowledge about the game. Summed up best by Broncos linebacker Von Miller, “[Tom Brady] knows voodoo!”
However, I think the Eagles have what it takes 
to defeat them. Foles has performed admirably in the playo ffs, and an incredible team backs him. 
On offense, there’ s a stalwart o ffensive line, reliable 
running game, and dynamic skill players like tight-end Zach Ertz or wide-receiver Alshon Je ffery. 
On defense, they have a deep defensive line and a young secondary lead by safety Malcolm Jenkins. And on special teams, their kicker, Jake Elliot, has been hitting field goals from fifty-yards out all 
season. The Eagles may be underdogs, but they’ve 
been beating the odds all season. On the biggest stage of the season, they’ll do it again.
Final Score: 30–27 EaglesFrom Birds to Dogs 
Super Bowl LII Predictions. Final Score: 30–27 Eagles
BY WESLEY xiao
contributing writeR
Wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
Tritons Secure Road Wins
15–1 Tritons continue dominance against Sonoma and SF State.
The UC San Diego women’ s basketball team 
took on Sonoma State and San Francisco State this weekend, and it was business as usual for the Tritons as they racked up another two wins on the road. A successful two-game road trip up north improves UCSD to an overall 19–3 record, while 15–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association. The two 
games were won by a combined 54 points, so that tells you all you need to know about how dominant the Tritons were on the road this weekend.  
Game v. Sonoma State
The Tritons defense shined in its 80–43 victory 
over Sonoma State as they held the Seawolves to 
27.6 percent shooting from the field. It was only a 
week ago that these two teams had met at RIMAC 
Arena and provided an entertaining matchup. However, it was the complete opposite of a back and forth action filled game as UCSD dominated 
from start to finish. The one-sided a ffair began 
with a 23–12 lead a fter the first quarter for the 
Tritons. Once again, UCSD held the advantage in points in the paint with a 37–20 advantage.  
Offensively, junior guard Kayla Sato led the 
charge for the Tritons, especially in the first 
half as she scored 15 of her 19 points in the first 
20 minutes. By hal ftime, UCSD held a healthy 
23-point lead and it seemed to be going only one way. The difference from this game and the first 
matchup against Sonoma State last week was the three-pointer. Last week, the Seawolves drained the three consistently; this time around, they ended the game 0–13 from the three-point line.
Overall, defensively UCSD had a dominant 
40 minutes as the maximum amount of points Sonoma State was able to score in any given quarter was 12. In the third quarter, the Seawolves were held to nine points as the Tritons kept on adding on to their lead with no problem.  While Sato finished with 19 points off  of five-
for-seven shooting, sophomore forward Mikayla Williams had 17 points and six rebounds as she continues her strong season. The third Triton in 
double- figure scoring was junior guard Joleen 
Y ang as she added on 11 points and four assists.  
Game v. SF State
UCSD capped o ff the weekend with a 80–63 
Saturday victory over San Francisco State as it was able dominate in back-to-back nights. The 
Tritons got out a huge game from their big two, senior forward Dalayna Sampton and redshirt sophomore forward Mikayla Williams, who both finished the night with nearly identical statlines. 
Sampton ended with 22 points and nine rebounds, while Williams had 21 points and nine rebounds. Even with the duo having huge games, the Tritons only held a 32–30 advantage with points in the paint; however, UCSD held the advantage in the turnover department. While the Gators turned the ball over 14 times, the Tritons had seven turnovers and got 16 points o ff of 14 Gator turnovers. San 
Francisco State could only manage a single point off the turnovers forced.
The first quarter ended at an even 19–19; 
however, UCSD displayed its dominance with 28–14 in the second quarter which gave it a 14 point lead going into the half. That second quarter 
became the di fference in the game as the the last 
two quarters of the game were much like the first.  
With the win, the Tritons now make it eight 
straight against the Gators and overall 15 wins out of the last 16.  
Next up, UCSD will travel back home as they 
are set to host Cal Poly Pomona at RIMAC Arena on Friday, Feb. 9, followed by a road game against Cal State San Bernardino on Saturday. Both tip-o ffs 
are set for 5:30 p.m.
daniel hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduBY daniel hernandez
senior Staff Writerthe second half. Unable to contain 
Bayne, the Seawolves watched helplessly as the Tritons cemented a 
huge 11-point lead with 5:21 le ft in 
the half. UCSD held on to its lead 
to close out the game despite a run by Sonoma State, finishing with a 
seven-point lead over the Seawolves (71–64). 
Three Tritons scored in double-
digits: Everman (20 points), Bayne (28 points), and junior guard/forward Christian Oshita (15 points). Bayne, who led the game in scoring, earned 11 of his 28 points 
from the free-throw line, finishing 
with a perfect 11–11 from the line. 
Versus San Francisco State
Offensive struggles characterized 
UCSD’s loss against San Francisco 
State. The first half was a back-
and-forth a ffair, with neither team 
claiming a decisive lead. The game 
changed leads multiple times 
throughout the first half and ended 
in San Francisco State’s favor. Going 
into halft ime, the Tritons were down 
one, 29–28.
Coming out of hal ftime, the 
game looked good for the Tritons. A jumper by Oshita and three-pointer by senior guard Anthony Ballestero gave UCSD an early 
33–29 lead. This was, however, very 
short-lived. UCSD started missing 
shots, and the Gators capitalized on the Tritons’ lapse in concentration. 
Two layups from San Francisco 
State tied the game at 33–33. At this point, 17:04 le ft in the second 
half, the momentum of the game wasn’t in favor of any team. The next 
10 minutes of the half moved in favor of San Francisco State, which took advantage of UCSD’s scoring troubles to gain a five-point lead. The game picked up with 7:28 le ft 
to play, when the Gators made two more layups to take a seven-point 
lead (52–45). The Tritons tried to 
respond with a three-pointer from 
Oshita, but it was o ff the mark. With 
the rebound secured, San Francisco 
State walked down the court and 
initiated its o ffense — leading to a 
missed three-point attempt from 
one of the Gators. The Tritons were 
unable to box-out e ffectively, which 
led to a Gator o ffensive rebound and 
another three-point attempt. This 
time, San Francisco State made the three-pointer, putting the Gators 
up by 10 with 5:45 remaining. This 
sequence of events was the nail in the coffin for the Tritons, who were 
struggling both defensively and offensively.
In the second half, the Tritons 
shot a measly 10–31 (32.3 percent) from the field, unable to match 
the Gators, who finished 17–27 
(63 percent) in the half. In spite of the team’s collective struggle, one Triton stood out: Oshita. The junior 
finished with his third double-double of the season, collecting 10 rebounds to go along with his game-high 21 points.
UCSD will play the best team 
in the CCAA, Cal Poly Pomona, this week. The Tritons will make a 
stand at home, facing o ff against the 
Broncos at RIMAC Arena on Friday, 
Feb. 9 for Spirit Night. Tipo ff is 
scheduled for 7:30 p.m.SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team played against 
Sonoma State and San Francisco 
State this past week. The Tritons 
beat out Sonoma State, 71–64, but 
fell to San Francisco State, 58–71. The results of the two games places 
UCSD, who is 12–4 in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association play, in second place behind Cal Poly Pomona (13–3). 
Versus Sonoma State
The Tritons had some di fficulty 
getting their o ffense started against 
Sonoma State. Early on, the 
Seawolves took a commanding lead 
and held the advantage for most of the game. UCSD trailed by as much as 11 in the quarter, but ultimately found a way to close the gap in the 
final five minutes of the half. In that five-minute span, the Tritons held 
Sonoma State to just four points and scored 15 of their own. The 15-point 
rally was led by sophomore forward 
Scott Everman, who was responsible for seven of the 15 points for the 
Tritons.
Riding the momentum into the 
second half, the Tritons took control 
of the game. Junior guard Christian Bayne carried the UCSD, scoring 
21 of his career-high 28 points in 
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.eduBY richard lu
associate sports editor
placing him in the 1,000th club in 
his four years at UCSD. Stojcic had returned the favor a fter surpassing 
2,000 assists from a Sy ftestad kill 
just one week ago.
Syftestad now sits at 178 kills this 
season with all Big West conference matches yet to be played. On top 
of the kills, the captain tallied one 
assist, three service aces, two digs, and three blocks.
Dropping the first set to Stanford, 
UCSD punched back stronger moving forward. The Tritons 
never trailed in the second set and recorded a team attack percentage of .455, their best numbers of the night.
Harrison listed another 
successful rookie outing in front of big name Stanford University. In 17 attempts, Harrison gathered 12 kills placing his attack percentage at .588. 
Scattering the rest of the score sheet, 
the freshman also had four digs and two block assists.
Regardless of the promising 
momentum in the second set, the Tritons never saw the lead in the third. Stanford shot a stunning team attack percentage of .480 with their most kills accumulated at 16.
A hard-fought fourth set 
unfortunately ended in the Cardinals’ favor pushing UCSD to 7–3. Before taking o ff for a four 
game road trip, UCSD will take on Brigham Young University on 
Thursday, Feb. 9 at 6 p.m. in the one 
and only RIMAC Arena.
UC San Diego vs. Princeton — La 
Jolla, CA
For the first time ever in UC 
San Diego men’s volleyball history, 
the Tritons proudly stood behind a well-deserved 7–2 overall record after Wednesday night’s game. 
UCSD wasted no time as it defeated Princeton University at home in three extremely close sets scored at 25–21, 25–23, and 34–32.
The Tritons completed the first 
set with a four point cushion, the 
largest set di fference all match and 
the “easiest” win of the night.
Freshman outside hitter Wyatt 
Harrison came out on fire with 
three service aces in a row early on. 
Harrison totaled an additional 10 points from nine kills and two block assists, as well as five digs and one 
assist.
UCSD began to pull away midway 
through the second set, forcing a timeout by Princeton as the score slowly slipped away (12–6).
Senior outside hitter Tanner 
Syftestad played a key role in 
securing the 2–0 set advantage. Collecting a team high of 15 points, 
Syftestad, the national leader in kills, produced 10 points from his specialty alone, two service aces, 
and three block solos.
The Tritons were in for their 
biggest battle of the night with the third set. Twenty-seven tie 
scores and 14 lead changes finally 
concluded with a Sy ftestad kill and 
a Tiger attack error which sealed the 
deal for the Tritons.
UCSD performed their highest 
attack percentage in the third at .323, on top of 11 team blocks. After suffering an injury prior to the 
start of season, redshirt sophomore outside hitter Xander Jimenez 
contributed with six and a half 
points in his first game back.
UC San Diego vs. Stanford — La 
Jolla, CA
In a season full of milestones, 
Syftestad became only the sixth 
Triton to get 1,000 career kills Saturday night as the Tritons lost in four sets (1–3) to Stanford 
University. A close match to say the 
least, all final set scores came within 
five points (25–21, 20–25, 25–20, 
25–21).
While only roughly halfway 
through the 2018 campaign, Syftestad capitalized on a perfect 
toss from senior setter Milosh 
Stojcic for his 16th kill of the night BY madeline lewis
staff writer
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduNo. 2 Tritons Split a Pair 
UC San Diego beats Sonoma State 71–64 but falls to San Francisco State 
58–71, holds onto second-place CCAA standing.
Men's  volleyballPHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY HENRY CHEN // UCSD GUARDIAN
Men's  basketball
Another 1–1 Weekend 
in Big Name Non-
Conference Matches
UCSD defeats Princeton in straight-sets, but falls to 
Stanford in four.UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
Softball 
Baseball
W Basketball
M Basketball2/8
2/92/92/92/96 PM
12 PM
1 PM
5:30 PM7:30 PM VS BYUVS Sonoma StateVS Colorado MesaVS Cal Poly PomonaVS Cal Poly Pomona