UCLA law professor Richard Sander and the 
Asian American Community Services Center, 
a student organization, are suing the UC 
system for not disclosing information they believe points 
to the use of race as a criterion against Asian-Americans 
in the admissions process. The UC system claims that 
the requested records are already in the public domain 
and that it is not legally obligated to create new datasets 
on top of existing statistics. The case follows the recent 
lawsuit filed against Harvard University, which reported 
discriminatory practices in its selection of applicants 
— reopening the debate on fairness in the admission 
processes of many prestigious universities.    
The plaintiffs argue that the UC system is applying 
affirmative action to college admissions, violating 
Proposition 209, a state initiative passed into law in 1996 that made the consideration of race and ethnicity 
illegal in the admission processes of public institutions. 
The precedent to the state law was first established 
in 1978, when the Supreme Court decided in Regents of 
the University of California v. Bakke that the race quotas UC Davis used to reserve a certain number of spots in its medical school for nonwhite applicants violated the 14th Amendment, which made it illegal for schools using federal funds to discriminate by race. The case upheld affirmative action, arguing that it accounted for the underrepresentation of historically disadvantaged 
groups until Proposition 209 came into effect. 
The denied California Public Records Act request 
letter that led to the suit was opened in August of 2017, 
on the grounds that in 2008, the UC system released the same data when Sander first petitioned. Such data are collected and maintained by the UC system’s Board of Regents, its governing board composed of 26 members. 
“The stonewalling, misdirection, filibustering, and 
ultimate refusal to provide information demonstrates the Regents’ deep and pervasive lack of transparency, ” the suit stated.
More recently, Sander went to court and lost against the State Bar of California after a  failed attempted to obtain similar documents, with the 1st District Court of 
Appeals affirming the trial court’s denial.
Sander is a known critic of affirmative action. Much 
of his research centers on its adverse effects, with 
many of his findings generating polarizing opinions. In 
2014, he won a lawsuit against the UC system when it 
first denied his CPRA request for similar information 
pertaining to the admission of graduate students at 
the UCLA campus. This followed a report released by 
professor Robert Mare, which was based on entries from 
the years 2008 to 2011. From the 2014 Mare report, 
Sander found that, all else equal, African-American, 
Latino, and white students were all more favorably regarded and “overrepresented” in a second review of applicants compared to Asian-Americans.  
Sander also wrote a book, “Mismatch, ” in which 
he argues for “mismatch theory, ” the idea that many public institutions are admitting students from underrepresented communities who are not academically apt to excel when pursuing higher education. 
George Shen, founder of the Asian American 
Community Services Center and petitioner of the organization in the lawsuit, spoke out on the UC system’s alleged targeting of Asian-American students. 
“There is an explicit American promise that if you 
work hard and play by the rules, you’ll be rewarded, ” Shen said in a statement. “It seems to us right now that Asians in general not only are not being rewarded but are being penalized for playing this game too well. ”
Shen also ran as a Republican candidate in a 
California State Senate race in the recent midterm elections. 
UC Chief Media Spokesperson Dianne Klein 
responded to the suit by reaffirming the UC system’s commitment to its “holistic” review process, which encompasses 14 criteria including GPA, test scores, and quality of academic performance relative to the 
On Nov. 29 in the Great Hall of 
International House, UC San Diego’s 
School of Global Policy and Strategy 
hosted a “teach-in” on the recent 
arrival of the Central American migrant caravan. The panel featured a number of professors and activists, who discussed the complexities of 
the issues faced by the group as well as the issues presented by their 
journey. 
The “caravan” is a group of 
almost 1,500 people traveling from Central America, seeking asylum in 
either Mexico or the United States. 
The group’s arrival at the U.S.-Mexico border has been the center of recent controversy, with some 
speculating on the validity of its 
members’ status as refugees. On Nov. 25 the caravan marched 
to the San Ysidro point of entry, where U.S. border agents fired tear gas into the crowd to break them up. For the rest of the day, the port 
was closed.
The discussion at UCSD began 
by elaborating why people are 
traveling in the caravan in the first 
place. Sociology professor David VOLUME 52, ISSUE 10  MONDA Y , DECEMBER 3, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Project to Reuse 
Electric Car Batteries Gets Federal Funding
The initiative received $2 million from 
the U.S. Department of Energy after 
competing in an agency-run event.
CAMPUS
BY  madeline leon
staff Writer
UCSD Immigration Experts Host “Teach-In” on Migrant Caravan
The UCSD Cheer Team performs at a basketball game.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Francesca HummlerThrough the Advanced Research 
Projects Agency-Energy, the U.S. 
Department of Energy awarded the UC 
San Diego Center for Energy Research $2 million in research funding for 
the Second Life Battery Project. This 
project focuses on reusing electric vehicle lithium batteries to power 
homes and businesses. The UCSD 
“Second Life” Battery Project was just one project in the DOE’s OPEN 2018 
event, which announced winning 
projects on Nov. 15. 
The ARPA-E is a program from 
the DOE, which started in 2009. With an OPEN event every three years, ARPA-E funds energy-related research 
projects in the developmental stages 
that have not yet entered the market. The OPEN provides researchers the 
opportunity to receive funding from 
ARPA-E for their projects. 
OPEN is a triennial competitive 
program funded by ARPA-E, that, after announcing open applications for funding research projects in multiple 
technological areas, selects projects 
to receive the allotted funding for that OPEN window. Previous OPEN 
opportunities occurred in 2009, 2012, 
and 2015.  
This year, the DOE awarded $98 
million in funding to about 40 projects nationwide. These projects came from 
a pool of around 2,000 applicants. The 
UCSD Second Life Battery Project is a cross-campus collaboration with 
Colorado State University and Utah 
State University. As UCSD received $2 million in funding, it allocates 
the budget to sub-contractors. In 
addition to ARPA-E’s funding, UCSD contributes to 5 percent of the project’s 
budget. 
“Many of the greatest advances 
in human history started from the bottom up with a single person or idea, 
and OPEN 2018 provides a chance to open our doors to potentially the next 
great advancement in energy, ” U.S. 
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry said in an ARPA-E press release.
ARPA-E OPEN focuses on funding 
research and developmental projects in various technological areas.  
“With OPEN, we welcome the 
innovation community to give us their ideas for the next big leap in energy 
technology, ” DOE communications 
team member Peebles Squire said. “We do this for a few reasons, but 
most importantly, it ensures we get to 
evaluate the strongest, most creative concepts to help us fulfill our goal 
of keeping America secure, boosting 
competitiveness, and protecting the environment. ”
The “Second Life” Battery Project 
aims at reusing lithium batteries from electric vehicles and integrating its 
power potential to a modular power 
converter matrix. Once connected, they can then be used to power utility By Rebecca  Camacho    senior staff writerUC SYSTEM
UCLA Professor Sues UC System over Affirmative ActionPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
Christian clubs make 
up a good portion of 
student organizations at 
UCSD. Despite having 
a visible presence, many 
believe that students 
should steer clear.
GENETIC  ENGINEERING 
BEST AND  WORST  OF  2018ETHICAL  CONCERNS
A  YEAR  IN  THE  FILM  INDUSTRYOpinion,  Page   4
A&E,   Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Without an 
overarching board 
across nations with 
access to continuous 
oversight of genetic-
editing studies, similar 
issues concerning 
bioethics and 
inhumane research 
will persist....”MONDAY
 H 65 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 56
TUESDAY
H 68 L 50
THURSDAY
H 63 L 53
GALLAGHER...................6
MUMFORD......................9
SHOPPING....................11
XMAS PLAYLIST............12
M. BASKETBALL...........15SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Rajee  Ganesan
Bioethics
 PAGE 4The event responded to the controversy surrounding the migrants’ recent arrival at the San Ysidro border.
BY  Tyler  Faurot
news Editor
See CARAVAN,  page 3 See BATTERIES,  page 3See LAWSUIT , page 3INSIDE THE WORLD
OF CHRISTIAN ORGS
Features, page 62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
GOLDEN RULE By Michi Sora
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. I 
didn’t say that I don’t eat ass.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin,
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Asiyah Syed, Darren Lam,
Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Tuesday, November 20
1:52 p.m. Shoplifting - Grand Theft
Bookstore Loss $988.85 
Closed by Adult Arrest2:00 p.m. Annoying Harassing 
Phone Call
Debt collector continuously calling different staff members asking for 
victim 
Report Taken3:30 p.m. Grand Theft
An unknown suspect(s) stole a laptop 
from a computer room, loss $1,899.00 Report Taken
4:45 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Loss $450.00 Online Report
4:46 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Loss $360.00Report Taken
7:09 p.m. Injury
Student cut his hand while working in the Bistro kitchen 
Report Taken
Wednesday, Nove mbe r 21
4:02 p.m. Public Display of 
Imitation FirearmFollowing a report of gunshots near 
Gliderport coming from two males 
seen with firearms, subjects found to be in possession of two imitation 
firearms/pellet guns, subjects stated 
they were using a cardboard box and Pepsi can as a target to shoot at, both 
subjects cited for an infraction 
Citation Issued7:00 p.m. Petty Theft
Unknown suspect(s) stole the victim’s 
license plate and replaced it with another stolen plate 
Report TakenThursday, November 22
2:03 a.m. Attempted Burglary
Resident interrupted suspect 
attempting to enter residence via bedroom window, suspect fled the 
area
Report Taken
Friday, November 23
1:00 a.m. Suspicious CircumstancesReporting party states while walking 
with girlfriend in area, a suspicious 
vehicle appeared to start following them, when the couple attempted 
to walk away, the driver exited the 
vehicle and began to follow them, the couple ran and hid until they believed 
the unknown male motorist to be 
gone Information Only
Saturday, November 24
2:21 p.m. Found Juvenile
Reporting party has a possible missing 
juvenile that is autistic and was injured after falling in San Elijo State 
Beach
Referred to other agency - State Parks5:09 p.m. Suspicious Person
Unknown person seen walking back 
and forth on top of a crane Checks OK
Monday, November 26
10:17 a.m. Fraud
Reporting party received notice of 
renewal from DMV for vehicle she does not own 
Service Provided
10:46 a.m. Disturbance - Psych Subject
Patient making suicidal statements 
Transported to Hospital6:05 p.m. Bicycle TheftLoss $450.00 
Report Taken
6:20 p.m. Petty Theft
Victim’s mail opened and a gift card 
stolen, loss $25.00 
Online Report
Tuesday, November 27
9:31 a.m. Citizen ContactReporting party wants to meet with 
an officer in regards to a patient 
videotaping doctors at Cardiovascular Center
Service Provided
4:00 p.m. Grand TheftUnknown suspect stole victim’s 
backpack, loss $1071.00 
Report Taken4:20 p.m. Bicycle Theft
Loss $1,200 
Online Report10:47 p.m. Psych Subject
Female student posting suicidal 
comments on social media Transported to Hospital
11:29 p.m. Medical Aid
Female feeling ill after smoking marijuana, medical transportation 
declined 
Report Taken
Wednesday, Nove mbe r 28
12:48 a.m. Suspicious PersonUnknown male near Peterson Hall 
attempted to get female into vehicle 
by offering a ride several times, made U‐ turn when female refused and ran 
away Gone On Arrival1:04 p.m. Suspicious Person
Male making gun gesture with his 
hands at Café VentanasGone On Arrival2:50 p.m. Shoplifting
Subject entered bookstore and took 
merchandise without paying, loss $241.96 
Citation Issued
9:14 p.m. Armed Suspicious PersonMale near Peterson Hall pushing a 
stroller and brandishing a bat in a 
threatening manner Unable to Locate
Thursday, November 29
2:13 a.m. Vehicle Burglary
Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Police Department
8:00 a.m. Vandalism
Unknown suspect(s) damaged several 
plants and placed glue on a door knob, damage $100.00 
Report Taken
1:58 p.m. Found PropertyFirearm surrendered to UCSD Police 
Department 
Report Taken3:09 p.m. Suspicious Person
Female yelling out the name “Bob” 
Checks OK5:00 p.m. Injury
Student crashed while riding a 
scooter, causing injury to face Transported to Hospital
5:11 p.m. Missing Person
Male employee did not return to work 
after lunch 
Report Taken
11:12 p.m. Impounded Drugs
Student turned in a plastic bag with 
marijuana 
Report Taken
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduFitzGerald, co-director of the Center 
for Comparative Immigration Studies at UCSD, pointed out that 
one of the primary reasons why 
members of the caravan are fleeing their homes is widespread violence.
“Some of these countries from 
which people are fleeing have some of the highest homicide rates in 
the world, ” FitzGerald said. “Gangs 
have established extensive control 
over territories and governmental 
jurisdiction. This, in turn, gives them impunity when they commit acts of violence. ”
FitzGerald also noted that 
traveling in such large numbers is a survival tactic, as there have been multiple incidents in which smaller, more vulnerable groups 
have been the targets of violence 
and exploitation. 
Savitri Arvey, a graduate student 
of public policy at the GPS, argued that the caravan has been popularly 
portrayed as a single entity, but is 
actually a conglomerate of different disparate groups. Where FitzGerald cited violence and corruption as one 
reason for people leaving Central 
America, Arvey pointed out that members of the LGBTQ community are fleeing persecution for their sexuality and identity.
Arvey explained that LGBTQ 
migrants “were the first ones to arrive in Tijuana [where same-sex marriage is legal], and there were a 
few weddings in the first few days. ”
Some members of the caravan 
have traveled north with the hopes 
of gaining asylum in the United States. Anthropology professor 
Lynn Stephen, who used to process 
asylum seekers during the Reagan administration, explained the process of qualifying for asylum in America.
“A s y l u m  c a n  b e  g r a n t e d  t o  a n  
applicant if they can demonstrate that they have been persecuted in the past or have a well-founded fear of 
persecution based on five grounds; 
membership of a particular social 
group..., religion, race, nationality, 
or political opinion, ” Stephen said. 
“The U.S. is bound to recognize 
valid claims under the 1951 U.N. convention relating to the status of refugees, and the 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees. ”  
As FitzGerald had pointed out, 
however, “The denial rate of people asking for asylum from Central America over the last several years 
is more than three-quarters. The 
chances of getting in are very slim, and not everyone in this caravan is asking for asylum. ”
Tom Wong, associate professor of 
political science and the director of the international migration studies minor, who also formerly served as an advisor to the White House 
Initiative on Asian Americans and 
Pacific Islanders under the Obama administration, paneled at the event.
“The credible fear-interviews 
when they first arrive at the border 
are checked a second time by an 
immigration judge,” Wong said. “But we see a disparity [in rulings] across the immigration courts. ”
Citing statistics from the 
Department of Homeland Security, Wong showed how some U.S. immigration courts award asylum in significantly fewer instances than 
others.
In addition to hurdles at the immigration courts, Wong cited 
an interim rule registered by the Department of Homeland Security 
on Nov. 9 that limits the locations 
at which individuals can claim asylum, as well as a presidential proclamation from the same day 
that argues that “violent” aliens are 
creating a crisis at the border and do 
not qualify for asylum. 
“But according to our 
Immigration and Nationality Act, ” 
Wong said, “a person can claim asylum … irrespective of where they are in the United States. ”   
In discussing the role the 
Mexican government can play in helping asylum-seekers, GPS’ director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies Rafael Fernández 
de Castro observed that the 
political buzz around the caravan gives incoming President Andrés Manuel López Obrador an excuse to radically transform Mexican 
migration policy. 
“He has the political clout to do 
so, ” de Castro said. “No caravan has 
been as popular as this one. ”
De Castro also threw his support 
behind what President-elect Obrador has called a “Marshall Plan for Central America, ” which aims to invest in the region in order to 
boost assistance and help process 
migrants traveling through Mexico.
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
www.fafsa.govUse  UCSD school code 001317. .
Use  UCSD school code 001317. www.C alDreamAct.orgStuden ts who are U.S. C itizens or P erm anent R esidents
can su bmit the FAFSA on line at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who ar e not eligible to  submit a FAFSA,
can subm it the Calif ornia Dr eam Ac t Applica tion at:OR
Note:  You will be asked to provide 2017 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2019-20 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
If you need assistance, please contact t he Financial Aid and Scholarships Off ice at ( 858) 534- 4480.REAPPLY  NOW
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or
California Dream Act Application is MARCH 2, 2019FOR F INANCI AL AID 2019-20healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edueducational opportunities available in 
high school.
“[The UC system] strongly believes 
in the value of diversity and for the 
past 20-plus years since Prop 209 
was implemented, ” Klein said in a 
statement. “We have worked tirelessly using race-neutral methods to ensure that a UC education is accessible to all 
segments of our state population, the 
most diverse in the country. ” Since 2010, Asian-Americans 
remain the largest ethnic group of 
freshmen admitted to UC schools. 
They also have the highest freshman 
admission rate:  69 percent last fall 
compared to 59 percent for whites, 53 
percent for Latinos, and 45 percent for African-Americans. 
services. 
“The promising aspect is that 
the [second life] batteries have life 
left in them, ” UCSD “Second Life” 
Battery Project Leader and UCSD Center for Energy Research Senior 
Engineer Antoni Tong told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Second life batteries have leftover capacities capable of 
providing stationary energy services. 
UCSD’s research team is developing a process to improve battery uniformity 
and performance while performing 
grid services over a short period of operation. Once they achieve desired 
performance, the outcome batteries 
will be sold to downstream markets and can provide energy storage 
services to homes and businesses for 
five years or longer. ”
The project focuses on reusing the 
battery, rather than recycling it. 
Tong describes the battery recycling 
process as “[taking] the battery and 
through a process, break them into a 
fine powder, then through mechanical or chemical processes to extract metals 
that go back into the making of new 
batteries. ” 
“By reusing the batteries, our 
technology can defer the recycle process, extend battery life and extract more value from batteries, 
reducing the environmental impacts of battery manufacturing and waste 
management. ”
Within the next two years, Tong 
and the team would like to “focus on developing the technology while actively engaging in industry within 
utilities sectors and automotive sectors 
for support of a larger scale system demonstration. ” 
Tong noted the U.S. ’s use of energy 
for transportation. 
“In a few years, batteries from 
millions of retired electric vehicles will be available for potential second life applications, ” he said. “Increasing 
grid integrated energy storage will 
help improve utility grids’ renewable energy penetration and reduce carbon 
footprints. ”
UCSD California Public Interest 
Research Group Vice Chair Sophie Haddad sees how the battery could 
potentially be environmentally friendly as well. 
“We have all seen the consequences 
of climate change, and they are only getting worse, ” she said. “Transitioning 
energy usage to more sustainable types 
of batteries is a very important step we can take to lessen our environmental 
impact. ”Klein: The UC Admissions Process is Race-Neutral
Second Life Would Combat Environmental ImpactThe T urnout for the Event Surpassed Expectations with Hundreds Attending
▶ LAWSUIT , from page 1
▶ BATTERIES , from page 1▶ CARAVAN , from page 1
rebecca camacho  rlcamacho@ucsd.edu
madeline leon  m7Leon@ucsd.edu tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Until last week, embryonic genetic modification was something usually only 
discussed hypothetically and with non-viable subjects in high-performing medical 
laboratories or scientific-fiction novels, and usually the latter. He Jianku, a researcher 
at the Southern University of Science and Technology in Shenzhen, China, made 
sure that the topic was something the entire scientific community was debating with the announcement of his controversial research findings — the world’s first genetically engineered babies.
Although it has yet to be independently verified under documentation, his research 
included a clinical trial involving embryonic genetic modification, where he worked 
with couples where the males were HIV positive, but the females were not. He began 
his study with in-vitro fertilization, the process of combining an egg with a sperm outside the body, usually reserved for couples experiencing fertility issues. He would 
then utilize CRISPR-Cas9, a microbiological tool used for genetic modification, 
banned in the U.S. and several western states as it targets and cuts specific genes. He specifically targeted the CCR5 gene, which is responsible for producing the protein 
that HIV latches onto in order to 
infect the human cell. By cutting 
this gene, HIV is unable to spread 
throughout the body, which renders the virus harmless. This procedure 
was completed successfully and 
reported last week in reference 
to a couple who gave birth to two 
healthy twin girls, Lulu and Nana.
Although incredibly 
groundbreaking, He’s investigation is inundated with several suspected bioethical violations. Bioethics are 
usually loosely enforced by the 
respective country’s government 
and medical regulation boards, such 
as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
or the Council for International 
Organizations of Medical Sciences. They encompass the ethics and 
moral codes surrounding biological 
and medical experimentation. Furthermore, many scientists and researchers follow a 
strict scientific process in order to document, share, and maintain a high standard for 
their work, a procedure He seems to have completely disregarded.  
The screening and consent processes for He’s trials remain undisclosed, but it has 
become apparent that He offered free in vitro-fertilization procedures to vulnerable parents in search of a solution, which created a serious conflict of interest. In addition, he also completed his trials almost in absolute secrecy, with little to zero oversight 
from peers and at a point in time when the effects of genetic modification have not 
been completely researched and are still unclear. Even the creator of the CRISPR 
method, Feng Zhang, has called a moratorium to halt the use of the technology 
in gene editing babies, due to the uncertainty surrounding the applications of the technique. 
Through this chain of events, it has become apparent that genetic fieldwork 
requires a unifying standard in order to remain admissible under global ethical standards. For example, He used viable embryos in his study, even when much 
of the work done to date with genetics has been done with non-viable embryos 
according to the guidelines of bioethical analysis. Without an overarching board across nations with access to continuous oversight of genetic-editing studies, similar 
issues concerning bioethics and inhumane research will persist, and professionals 
like He will likely never have to face the consequences for their failure to uphold 
bioethical standards.
Currently, regulation of genetic engineering research is done by the government 
of respective countries with guidelines from CIOMS being loosely enforced, 
resulting in some countries having stronger and more developed ethics regulations 
around genetic engineering than other countries, like China. However, the bioethics 
and weak regulations surrounding genetic editing isn’t an issue that pertains to 
China alone — many Western European and Asian countries, including Russia and 
Japan, have varying governmental controls over eugenic research, instigating a plethora of bioethical issues regarding research and genetics globally over the last 
hundred years. Under the advancement of research technology, the consolidation of 
regulations between national borders has become critical. If scientists are to share and develop research solutions together, it is essential that both trials and projects, 
regardless of their location, must be held to equivalent standards 
of bioethics and biomedical care. 
This would reduce repetition across studies as well as hold researchers 
responsible for their actions. 
It is now imperative to establish 
a required and universal full ethics 
review with all genetic-engineering research projects as well as the 
process that one must go through 
under a genetic bioethics board to be able to do so. This process can 
be facilitated by a subcommittee 
that can be easily added to CIOMS 
or UNESCO, with elected research 
representatives or experts on bioethics from any mandated 
country with researchers working 
on projects involving gene editing. By requiring an approval process, 
consistent reports from each project, 
and the revocation of any research licenses for any failure to comply, it becomes possible for a governing board to maintain standards and catch ethical violations 
before they occur.
Regardless of whether the benefits outweigh the risks, performing such trials 
and studies without previous analysis is not only dangerous to the child, but also to society, as the results of such modifications can affect future lineages and the integrity of the population’s genetic diversity. Allowing genetic engineering to 
continue globally without oversight as it is today would almost certainly drive the 
popularization of genetic modification for enhancement and cosmetic reasons. 
The future monetization of the industry is unclear, especially with biotechnology 
companies looking to make a quick buck and profit off parental desires for healthy children. However, the establishment of a regulatory board can aid the genetic-
engineering industry from spiraling out of control. An effective board with 
consolidated guidelines and precautions, when given access to global oversight of research operations, would not only bring biomedical and genetic engineering and 
research to a higher standard, but also allow for contemporary innovations on a 
global scale.“Without an overarching board across 
nations with access to continuous 
oversight of genetic-editing studies, 
similar issues concerning bioethics and 
inhumane research will persist, and 
professionals like He will likely never 
have to face the consequences for their 
failure to uphold bioethical standards.”Uncharted Territory 
for Bioethics
Reports of the first successful experiment to creare genetically engineered 
children has sparked an international debate about the use of gene editing in 
humans. Though these results are still contested, studies of this sort highlight the 
necessity for an international comittee dedicated to ensuring that any experiment 
which seeks to guide the gene flow of humans meets strict ethical guidelines.
By: Rajee Ganesan // Contributing WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
SYSTEM 32   By Anonymous6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Most students come to college hoping to prepare for their careers, join 
clubs, go to parties, and of course, further their education. Seeking out ways to practice religion and grow in their faith aren’t usually included 
in these expectations. 
Y et, many students are involved with some type of faith-based student 
organization during their time at UC San Diego — there are currently 35 graduate and undergraduate spiritual student organizations on campus. Of these 
35 organizations, the vast majority fall in line with some type of Christianity or 
Catholicism. 
Looking at the broader context of religion in the United States, it makes sense 
that there would be a large Christian presence on campus. In California, 63 percent 
of adults identify as Christian. This percentage is slightly higher in San Diego alone, 
where 68 percent of adults are Christian.
Nevertheless, in a college environment it’s still a wonder that so many young 
people are actively engaged in religious organizations. Millennials are showing 
the lowest percentages of religious 
affiliations in history, making up 44 percent of adults in the U.S. who do not identify with any 
organized religion. 
The relatively high rates of 
religious indifference in our 
generation can make college campuses some of the toughest 
places to evangelize. For the most part, students are reluctant to hear what these 
religious organizations have to say — especially in the heavily academic atmosphere of UCSD, where students are likely less inclined to devote time to religious extracurriculars.
Ron Rubio, an Earl W arren College senior and leader of the InterV arsity 
Christian Fellowship, observed that this hesitance to be involved with religious organizations may stem from a popular misunderstanding that these clubs force their beliefs on students.
“People automatically get turned off the moment they hear you are a religious 
organization. I think there are unfair assumptions that all religious organizations want to do is convert people but many of them just want people to understand where their beliefs come from, ” Rubio said. “Like sure, if someone wants to choose to be a Christian, that’s amazing and I’ d be incredibly joyful! But first and foremost, I would want them to know how much someone out there cares for them, not 
because of what they’ve done, but merely because of who they are. ”
 Emmalene Bernal, a member of Zion Bible Study Club, noted that while 
negative attitudes toward religious organizations make it difficult to reach out to 
fellow students, some students are willing to hear what they have to say.
“Some people seem to be indifferent to religious organizations, ” Bernal 
said.“From what I’ve experienced just by going out and sharing some of our beliefs, we’ve come across many people who don’t have any particular belief at all. But there are some people here and there who are really looking for a way to know more about God … So I think it just depends on who you cross paths with!”
There are certainly a number of students who are willing to learn about these 
organizations. Each of these clubs differ to some degree in their goals and beliefs, so students who are searching for the right religious community are bound to find one that suits them.
For instance, Zion Bible Study Club is relatively unconventional in its teachings 
and practices compared to other Christian organizations. 
“One of our core beliefs is that the day of worship is Saturday, which may seem different but it is actually a teaching in the Bible, ” Bernal said.“ Another core belief that stands out is that we believe in God the Mother, since She is prophesied to be revealed in our time frame according to the book of Revelation. We believe that 
salvation can only be given when we come to realize both God the Father and God 
the Mother by studying the prophecies in the Bible. ”
Other organizations, like InterV arsity Christian Fellowship, fall in line with a 
more traditional understanding of the Bible. Typically, Christians do not believe in 
God the Mother and go to church on Sunday rather than Saturday.
Zion Bible Study Club, which is part of the World Mission Society Church of 
God, is aware that most people are not familiar with and do not share, their beliefs.
“I think what sets us apart the most is our belief that the second coming of 
Jesus Christ has already taken place according to Biblical prophecy  and that God 
the Mother, whom we believe in, was also prophesied to come to the earth with Him, ” Bernal said. “So we believe They both have already come and are now giving salvation to those who receive Them, just the way Jesus did 2,000 years ago, ” . This 
belief makes us different because when you ask other organizations, most believe that Jesus has not 
yet come a second time 
and that God the Mother is not biblical. ”
In addition to their 
teachings, Christian 
organizations at UCSD also vary in their activities of worship. Some gatherings are more informal, like Navigators’ large-scale meetings featuring a message and worship, while others, like Zion Bible Study Club’s seminars on scripture, are more formal. Religious organizations also commonly hold community service events. 
For instance, InterV arsity hosts a weekly outreach program for homeless people 
throughout San Diego. 
Like any other type of club, spiritual organizations also have their share of social 
activities. For example, InterV arsity hosts an end-of-the-year semiformal where members can enjoy a night of dancing and socializing. 
Bernal shared more about Zion Bible Study Club’s social events. “On campus, we host Game Nights as a way for students to come out and 
de-stress during the times that we know the stress levels are high and students are feeling exhausted. Through these kinds of events, we hope to share the love of God to all people!”
Religious organizations, then, are seemingly similar to other non-spiritual 
student organizations in their structures and activities. Y et there’s a general attitude among students that religious organizations should be avoided. It seems that any UCSD student is bound to have a story about unwanted run-ins with Christian 
organizations. 
Esmeralda Lara, a John Muir College junior, has one such story. After attending 
an art show hosted by Zion Bible Study Club, one of its members invited Lara to a 
one-on-one Bible study session.
A member asked me if I wanted to do Bible study with her, and I agreed because 
she was very persuasive, ” Lara said. “Then I started seeing her for about an hour each week for a month or two, but she always tried to discreetly extend the Bible study session. I would have to tell her I had class. I just didn’t agree with a lot of the things she was teaching me from the Bible so I stopped the Bible study altogether. 
It just definitely wasn’t for me.”
“Sometimes these stories are much more severe and can 
give rise to full-blown controversy. For instance, earlier this 
year, Zion Bible Study Club was rumored to be a front for 
sex trafficking. ”  
Inside  the 
World  of 
Christian 
Student  
Orgs
ILLUSTRATION BY ANTHONY TRAN
Christian clubs 
make up a good portion of student organizations at UCSD. Despite having a visible presence, many believe that students should steer clear. Th e 
UCSD Guardian spoke with these clubs to hear about what sets them apart from other types of organizations.
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong // Senior Sta ff 
Writer
SeeVOLUNTEERING , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Sometimes these stories are much more severe and can give rise to full-blown controversy. 
For instance, earlier this year, Zion Bible Study Club was rumored to be a front for sex trafficking. 
These claims originated in college campuses in Kentucky and spread from there, as the 
Christian organization has chapters established on campuses nationwide. 
“I’ d say the hindrance with [the allegations] is that many people were quick to judge based 
on a false rumor, ” Bernal said.“Just by us introducing ourselves as Zion Bible Study Club, people 
would say, ‘I know who you guys are. I heard you guys kidnap young ladies in a van. ’ So many 
of our members were told things like that directly to their faces. The whole time we all thought 
to ourselves, ‘Where did that come from?’ And also, ‘I don’t have time for that! I go to UCSD! I 
have midterms and finals coming up!’”
Authorities investigated the organization and were able to clear up these false rumors. The 
controversy, unfortunately, had a lasting effect on the organization’s reputation: In the aftermath 
of these reports, club members were sure to have links to police reports denying the rumors on-hand to defend themselves. 
“I think many people believed it because it spread online really fast, ” Bernal said. “But it’s a 
good reminder of the importance of checking your sources of information and just thinking 
about how your words can affect the lives of others before you speak. ”
Certainly, the sex trafficking controversy goes to show just how impactful words can be. 
Speech and religion, though at times divisive, are free to be expressed. At the end of the day, 
Christian student organizations function like any other club — exercising their right to share 
what they’re passionate about, and fostering community in the process.
“I think the UCSD community generally feels pretty skeptical about religious organizations 
because [people] are unsure of their intents, ” Rubio said. “The assumption that their only desire is to convert everyone gives religious organizations a negative perception. Immersing yourself in 
these spaces to learn more about different spiritual backgrounds can go a long way in dispelling 
these assumptions. ”
At the end of a long hall and around the corner, on the third floor of Pepper Canyon Hall, 
stands the o ffice of professor Tricia Gallagher-Geurtsen, one of the several education 
studies professors that work here at UC San Diego. The office itself is bare, holding 
nothing more than a few desks, an industrial overhead light, and Gallagher-Geurtsen’s belongings 
stacked neatly in the corner. Y et, despite the o ffice’s empty feel, it is Gallagher-Geurtsen herself 
that seems to bring a new energy and life into the room.  
However, this situation seems to represent Gallagher-Geurtsen well. Placed in communities 
and institutions that are full of inequities and inequalities, Gallagher-Geurtsen tries to bring 
change and spirit. Whether these e fforts come through teaching both students and educators 
more about the inequities in the education system, or fighting against tracking (the practice of 
separating students by ability) in her son’s middle-school mathematics program, she leaves a definitive mark on the community and people around her.
Born in Northern California and having spent her undergraduate years at UCSD, Gallagher-
Geurtsen has spent the majority of her life in California. In fact, it is here that she first became 
interested in education; namely, through the Partners at Learning course o ffered here at UCSD.
“I took the Partners at Learning course and fell in love with the idea of becoming a teacher. … 
I was assigned to work with a fifth grader in Oceanside, a Latina … and I just felt she wasn’t doing 
well in school. And I felt if I could just get to know her and her family and show her that I cared, 
that I could really get her to really dig into school and do well. Because I knew that doing well in 
school was her ticket to having choices in her life. ” Gallagher-Geurtsen said.
However, it was not only her experiences 
with teaching that got her interested in education but also her interactions with her 
own educators; namely, her previous professor at UCSD, Irene Villanueva. Inspired by her 
conversations with Villanueva, Gallagher-
Geurtsen not only found a passion for education but also for social justice and 
fighting inequity. 
“She really helped me see from new 
perspectives and kind of shook me out of my privilege and showed me how important it was 
to care about students, and how beautiful bilingualism is — just how amazingly beautiful it is, ” Gallagher-Geurtsen said. “ And so I really think that helped me become the educator I’ve become. ” 
It is this fascination and respect for bilingualism that inspired Gallagher-Geurtsen to pursue 
education even further by obtaining her Bilingual, Crosscultural, Language and Academic Development, and eventually her master’s degree. In fact, it was her disagreement with the 
passing of Proposition 227 (a statute passed in 1998 limiting bilingual education in California) 
and her strong stance in favor of bilingual education that drove her to to pursue her master’s degree in the first place. According to Gallagher-Geurtsen, it was her way of trying to understand 
why someone would want a monolingual education.
Since then, she has worked hard to fight for bilingualism and multiethnic representation in 
schools. One of the projects she has most recently been working on is the movement to push for 
the availability of ethnic studies courses in all schools in California. As di fficult as this proposition 
may sound, Gallagher-Geurtsen is starting small with middle and elementary schools in San 
Diego. As Chair of the San Diego Uni fied District’s Ethnic Studies Advisory Committee, 
Gallagher-Geurtsen has been working hard at this project since its inception last year. 
The goal for the committee, Gallagher-Geurtsen said, is to create opportunities and classes 
for students to learn more about their individual and collective histories. This program not only 
takes the form of ethnic studies classes but is intended to be seen even in mathematics classes, so that all subjects are taught from multiple perspectives. According to Gallagher-Geurtsen, this will produce active citizens who are aware of their own histories and of the powerful and important 
people of color in their lives. “I think it’s so important that all of our students know the real histories of di fferent ethnic 
groups in our state, in our country, in our world, so that we can come up with real solutions that humanize and decolonize all peoples, so that everyone has a chance at a happy and free life, ” 
Gallagher-Geurtsen said. “I can say that students who are in that course are saying things like ‘I had no idea about my own history in this country and in California; I had no idea how my parents 
and their ancestors had to struggle to get us to where we are and how hard they work, and now I 
want to know more. I want to learn more. ’ These are students who are really hungry for education 
precisely because of taking this ethnic studies course in the ninth grade, in the beginning of high 
school, when it really counts. ” 
In many ways, though, this passion for social justice is not just limited to her work but spills 
over into her personal life as well. Home for Tricia Gallagher-Geurtsen is in her husband and three children, ages 13, 11, and 7. When she talks about them, she does so with a small smile on 
her face, saying: 
“They go to public schools, and they’re the most amazing and the most challenging job I’ve 
ever had. … I just like having downtime with them, talking together, hearing about their day, their crazy ideas — that’s probably my favorite thing, is hearing about their crazy ideas. Because 
they all have crazy ideas, wonderful, crazy ideas. ” 
Y et her passion for education, married with her desire to see a better future for her kids, is 
such that she admits it is o ften hard for her not to be critical of her own children’s schools. In one 
case in particular, Gallagher-Geurtsen identi fied what she a ffirmed to be an “egregious problem” 
in her son’s middle school math program. 
This tracking program is so extensive in 
the San Diego Uni fied School District that 
students —including Gallagher-Geurtsen’s son — had little to no opportunity to move 
to the higher math programs despite being 
capable and smart enough to succeed. Essentially, a single math test taken at the 
end of elementary school would be the 
determining factor of a child’s entire future in math. 
“If you just look at the di fferent pieces 
of the district’s policy by themselves, they look innocent and fair, ” Gallagher-Geurtsen said. “But if you put it all together, and you look at the data, and you start looking for the structures of power 
in the district’s math pathways, they’re more like sort of steel-lined walkways that you can’t get 
over. And if you start asking questions and saying, ‘Hey, show me the data, show me how many kids actually change tracks in math, and what color is their skin?’ Then you reveal this structure 
that, intentionally or not, is limiting people by race and class and narrowing their life outcome choices. ” 
Gallagher-Geurtsen has been working at this eff ort for a while. Although the process is a lot 
slower than she would like and the results are barely showing through, she believes it is a step in the right direction. She mentions that there is now greater transparency for parents whose kids are being tracked, that parents are being made more aware of the appeal process, and that district 
administrators are becoming more aware of how limiting current practices are. All of these are 
small steps towards a better educational future. 
Perhaps it is this mindset that gives Gallagher-Geurtsen the ambition to keep moving forward. 
Although results may be slow and long-enduring, she wakes each morning devoted and driven to continue to work in making change. 
“I’m dedicated to teaching future educators, ” Gallagher-Geurtsen said., “ And I don’t care 
where it is. I want future educators to be equity-minded, and if you invite me to do that, I will say yes. … If you have teachers who want to learn about equity, I’m there. Because I think it is one of the central, underaddressed issues in schools in society. … And if I can leave this earth having 
created more opportunities for equity for more people, I’ll be satis fied. ” BEHIND THE LECTERN
 Professor Tricia Gallagher-Geurtsen and Her 
Fight for EquityBy Madeline Park // Associate Features Editor
Madeline Park  map048@ucsd.eduJade  Knows  His  Gun-Wong  jknowshi@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRICIA GALLAGHER-GEURTSEN
For nearly all her life, professor Tricia Gallagher-Geurtsen has been working hard at not 
only improving herself as a teacher but the educational system as well. Whether this eff ort 
comes through educating future educators or taking a firm stance at her children’s schools, Gallagher-Geurtsen fights for equity and equality in the “steel-walled” system. 
“She really helped me see from new perspectives and 
kind of shook me out of my privilege and showed me how 
important it was to care about students, and how beautiful 
bilingualism is — just how amazingly beautiful it is, ” 
Gallagher-Geurtsen said. “And so I really think that helped 
me become the educator I’ve become. ” ▶ VOLUNTEERING , from page 6
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
With rain beginning to fall, a line 
built up outside of the Stage Room on the UC San Diego 
campus as students anxiously waited to see P-Lo. P-Lo is a Bay Area rapper known for his hit songs “Put Me On Somethin’” and the more recent “samesquad. ” 
I went into this concert with rather high 
expectations due to the love for P-Lo I have routinely seen throughout campus. The concert sold out months prior, so I anticipated the crowd to be charged and ready for the 
performance. A significant portion of UCSD’s 
population consists of students from the Bay, and the mutual love between P-Lo and Bay Area natives is prevalent.
As the venue opened at about 8:20 p.m. 
and the crowds began to pour in, the energy was high as individuals mingled in the venue, not hesitant to be heard. For the next hour between the opening of the doors and the first 
performance, the crowd’s energy remained 
relatively upbeat. Fans waited in short lines for a photo opportunity with a P-Lo tour poster until the first opener hit the stage. 
The night began with the first opener, DJ 
“ All Black” who made sure to play recognizable radio hits. From Sheck Wes’ “Mo Bamba” to Travis Scott’s “Sicko Mode, ” the crowd didn’t seem to mind the Billboard Top 50 songs being played yet another time. Overall, the DJ 
set was not unique or very impressive, but the 
task of pumping up the crowd seemed to be accomplished. 
All Black hit the stage and gave a subpar 
performance that was saved by his charisma and crowd interactions. He called several individuals to the stage and even inserted himself into the crowd. These actions created a sense of unity that made the crowd feel more 
attached to the artist despite most individuals 
displaying a clear lack of knowledge about his music. Fans looked left and right with faces suggesting a sudden feeling of confusion, but 
his performance did a commendable job of 
working through this. 
Finally, at around 10 p.m., the headliner hit 
the stage, and the crowd gave him an adoring welcome. It didn’t take too long for the Bay 
Area to be recognized. P-Lo quickly prompted 
the crowd, “Who here is from the Bay?” to which the crowd — nearly filled to capacity — responded with overwhelming cheers. 
P-Lo’s on-stage presence was impressive, 
and it made the overall experience enjoyable. His small dance spurts, accompanied by chants of “Go P-Lo, ” made it feel as if it was a friend on stage rather than a recording artist. This sense of community generated from the 
crowd and the artist himself was admirable. 
With the introduction of each song, it 
seemed as if the crowd had been anxious to 
hear it their whole lives. As the beat hit for 
crowd favorite “Put Me on Somethin’ , ” I had 
never seen so many faces light up. This was notably a peak of the concert, as the whole crowd was engaged and moving with the beats. 
P-Lo was also quick to recognize those 
who seemed to be enjoying his performance, calling to the stage two die-hard fans. Once again, this shattered the barrier that sometimes 
makes an artist seem unreal. The two audience 
members danced on stage to the enjoyment of the crowd, which made it feel like P-Lo had a connection with each audience member. This moment made for a wholesome environment 
where fans could see their favorite artist going 
out of his way for them. 
Despite the positive energy generated in 
the venue, the show could have been better in 
several aspects. I was disappointed in the stage 
design that P-Lo brought with him to La Jolla, which only featured a neon sign that read “P-Lo. ” I expected an artist of his caliber to travel with a bit more, but granted, the venue could have played a role in that decision. 
Also, P-Lo’s vocal performance on his more 
melody-based songs was a bit disappointing. It seemed as if he struggled to keep up with the audio track running in the background 
from time to time; however, this is a prevalent 
issue for many rap artists during their live performances. 
In its entirety, the show felt extremely 
wholesome and the sense of community was 
strong. I commend P-Lo for channeling so 
much positive energy and being able to unite the crowd by making himself so personable. An artist being in touch with his fanbase is 
always good to see, and it definitely shows 
with the support he receives. With a few minor improvements, this concert could have been a standout. Although, with this being the first stop on his tour, I am sure it will continue 
to improve with each night. 
— matthew  rudas
Contributing Writer
EVENT  REVIEW
 P-Lo  Prime  TourPHOTO COURTESY OF KUTERADIO
Event Dates   November 28, 2018
Venue   The Stage Room at UCSDCB-
Bay Area favorite P-Lo began his Prime Tour at UC San Diego, where he delivered a middle-of-the-road performance for loyal fans.
PHOTO COURTESY OF MATTHEW RUDASA&E     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Mumford and Sons returned to the music scene this month with their latest album 
“Delta. ” Like much of the music industry recently, the band experiments with electronic mixing, creating new sounds to embellish its music. Nevertheless, 
Mumford and Sons also bring back elements of their past styles by reintroducing their acoustic instruments into their music, including the banjo and upright bass, although they are barely noticeable through the heavy sound processing. With their new tools in hand, Mumford and Sons create a phenomenal blend of folk rock and electronica that keeps listeners 
at the edge of their seats from beginning to end.
Synthesized instruments and sounds dominate the album’s sound, creating an ethereal 
feeling in most of the songs that can be further defined by the dichotomy between light and 
darkness. Fittingly, the album contains the two tracks, “Guiding Light” and “Darkness Visible, ” 
that really showcase these effects. “Guiding Light” uses upbeat guitar strums and a fluttering 
piano riff in the chorus to achieve a shimmering sound, representing the “light” that one sees in someone they love. The opposite is audible in “Darkness Visible, ” a less conventional song that does not feature any vocals, but includes an ominous narrator reciting a somber excerpt 
of John Milton’s “Paradise Lost. ” A booming bass kick is backed by a synthesized violin and 
discordant piano to give off an eerie vibe. These sounds gradually crescendo until the end when all sound is abruptly cut off to evoke the feeling of darkness engulfing the listener.
In several tracks, Mumford and Sons also achieve a western, wilderness-like sound 
by taking artistic liberty with their synthesizers and layering them over their acoustic 
instruments. These effects are heard in “The Wild, ” and in the introduction of their titular 
song, “Delta. ” The echoing banjos and guitars backing the vocals create the image of one crying into the wild from a mountain. 
Lyrically, Mumford and Sons take a more introspective approach from what they usually 
produce. The album delves into embracing death in “October Skies, ” when the speaker declares he has “faith in wraith. ” Not limited to dreary themes, the band also takes an interesting approach to covering love in “Forever. ” In this track, the speaker harkens back to his own experiences with failed love, encourages listeners to take initiative in their own relationship, and to “love with your mind. ” Literature references abound throughout some 
songs, such as in the aforementioned “Darkness Visible. ” Subtler allusions appear in “Rose of 
Sharon, ” a tender song which references a collection of love poems in the Bible called “The Song of Songs. ” Through these little insertions and its overall precise diction, one rarely hears the word “wraith” anymore. It is clear Mumford and Sons put in extra effort to make 
thoughtful lyrics for their listeners to truly connect emotionally with the music.
However, the album’s organization is a weak point in the overall presentation. While the 
album contains a diverse set of tracks with different styles and sounds, Mumford and Sons 
chose to cluster similar songs near each other rather than spacing them out. This is best 
exemplified by the first four songs of the album, all of which have a similar tempo, key, and 
style which wear the listener down until “The Wild” queues up and changes the musical flavor. That being said, certain transitions were clearly done on purpose, such as the one between “Picture You” and “Darkness Visible. ” Cleverly, Mumford and Sons reference “Darkness 
Visible” in the lyrics of “Picture You, ” and when one listens to the songs consecutively, the 
transition point is almost unnoticeable. This same trope is done in the transition between “42” and “Guiding Light” where “Guiding Light” is alluded to in “42” before the transition, although this one is not as seamless as the one between “Picture You” and “Darkness Visible. ”
“Delta” is truly a gem in the sea of albums released this year. With their well-thought-
out lyrics and hybrid folk-electronica rock style, Mumford and Sons once again create an emotionally charged album with fantastic sound effects that leave listeners in awe.
 
— steven   Zhou
Contributing Writer
del t a
by  Mumford  and   Sons
Release Date  November 16th, 2018
By adding an electronica twist to their folk rock roots, Mumford and Sons creates a stunning set of tracks that shows the band’s versatility.Earl Sweatshirt of rap collective Odd Future made an experimental splash in the hip-hop community with his new album, “Some Rap Songs. ” 
ALBUM   REVIEW
AAfter several years of receiving 
comments begging for the release of new music, the mysterious and 
beloved Thebe Neruda Kgositsile (“Earl Sweatshirt”) finally delivered. From the hip-hop and lifestyle collective Odd Future — the former home of Tyler, the Creator and Frank 
Ocean — Sweatshirt is back with a 15-track 
album titled “Some Rap Songs. ” The highly anticipated project comes in at a shocking 25 minutes, a length that has become a staple of Sweatshirt’s work as he continues to stress 
brevity.
Sweatshirt reigns from Los Angeles, 
California and is currently 24 years old. He has 
sat in the spotlight since the age of 16, when 
he dropped his initial project “Earl” and took 
the hip-hop community by storm. Working with themes of depression, achievement, and introspection, Sweatshirt has his own niche with a devout following in the rap community.
This new album is by far the most 
experimental piece of hip-hop to be released this year. There aren’t a lot of 808s, not many repetitive lines, no catchy choruses — this 
album is simply Sweatshirt’s world for the last 
three years, and it is beautiful. The production on the album is primarily conducted by Sweatshirt himself and features a plethora of strange beats you would not expect to have rap thrown over. Ranging from jazz-based circular beats to more experimental Tame Impala-esque beats that sometimes consume 
the lyrics, Sweatshirt continues to innovate in 
the field of hip-hop.
Prior to the official album release, 
Sweatshirt dropped two of its songs as singles, 
“Nowhere2go” and “The Mint, ” featuring Navy 
Blue. After hearing them alongside the rest of the album’s work, one can further appreciate the pieces both individually and as a collective part of the whole project. “Nowhere2go” 
progresses in the same manner as the overall 
album does. The overproduced beat initially causes the track to be a bit much to take in, but after a few listens, it quickly becomes a main 
track off the album. Sweatshirt’s cadence on 
this track is admirable, as the underdelivered flow becomes hypnotic and leaves the audience hoping for more.
On its first listen-through, the album has 
a lot to digest. From start to finish, the 25 minutes of the album feel like too little yet too much — so much happens in each song. The opening track “Shattered Dreams” establishes 
the nature of the project right off the bat, as it 
makes use of a repetitive and ominous beat. From lyrics referencing the essence of living in a dream and not wanting to wake up to having others neglect to help him out of pain, Sweatshirt is unafraid and unapologetically displays his emotions to the world.
Another standout track of the project is 
the sixth song titled “Ontheway!” featuring Standing on the Corner, with a guitar-based beat nearly resembling that of “Jingle Bell Rock. ” This track once again gives insight 
into the troubled mind of Sweatshirt, as he 
references his constant battles with depression and makes more remarks regarding his mother, which seems to be a common theme throughout the album.
Moving forward, on the 13th track of 
the album, “Playing Possum, ” Sweatshirt incorporates a speech from his mother and a poetry reading from his father over a smooth 
beat. This was a highlight of the album due to 
the direct insight it provides to the personal life of Sweatshirt, which he discusses so often. With the recent passing of Sweatshirt’s father, this track can be seen as a sort of tribute to both 
of his parents and their overall importance in 
his life. Sweatshirt has been public about his troubled relationship with his father, even mentioning the feeling of sending his father 
to the grave with unresolved issues on the 
project’s heaviest track, “Peanut. ”
Ultimately, the project ends with an 
instrumental track following a plucky guitar that whimsically concludes the album. The piece sounds as if it is a soundtrack playing over the credits of a film with a majestic sunset running its course in the background. It serves 
as a symbol of Sweatshirt finally leaving his 
art all on the table after years of fans longing for more music. At the end of the 25-minute album, Sweatshirt has unapologetically 
delivered his heart through the means he 
wished to use.
As the year comes to a close, Sweatshirt 
made sure to leave his mark on what is going to be remembered as a monumental year in 
hip-hop. His efforts to remain original by 
not caving into the waves of trap beats and repetitive lyrics storming modern music today are commendable. Instead, he continues to 
place his whole spirit into the music he creates. 
In its entirety, this is an album that improves with each listen. Whether it be through intricacies in the beats or realization of clever wordplay, Sweatshirt has finally satisfied his 
fans’ demands. Despite the underplayed title, 
“Some Rap Songs” is more than just that — this album is innovation, soul, and creative genius.
 
 
—  matthew Rudas
 Contributing Writer
Some   Rap   Songs
by  Earl  Sweatshirt
Release Date  November 30th, 2018ALBUM   REVIEW
APHOTO COURTESY OF DJBOOTH10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  D E C E M B E R  3 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
This summer, Marvel took the cinematic world by storm by 
delivering the most anticipated showdown between Earth’s mightiest heroes and the universe’s most formidable super villain, 
Thanos. Thrilling, funny, and heart-wrenching, “ Avengers: Infinity 
War” was a pure mashup of sterling entertainment. From the compelling storytelling to captivating characters, the action-packed film had audiences at the edge of their seats with eyes glued 
to the screen, already itching for the next heady installment of the 
franchise.
— ashley
Senior Staff WriterEven with the groundwork of a compelling yet twisted extraterrestrial character, “Venom” still unfortunately hits and misses the opportunity to tell a perceptive story. An infuriating 
disappointment is the lack of evidential synergy between the two 
driving forces of the film. In dismissing the complexity of these two flawed characters, the movie loses potential substance in thematic significance and gripping insight. The blockbuster falls 
into shambles of corny one-liners and unenthused fight sequences, 
wasting the glory it could have rightfully deserved. 
— ashley
Contributing Writer
First time director Ari Aster gave us the best horror film of the 
year with “Hereditary, ” a chilling feature that exploits the tension of a grieving family following the death of its matriarch to produce 
a truly spectacular work of horror. Toni Collette gives a Oscar-
worthy performance as a mother coping with the loss of her 
mother and the disintegration of her family structure.
— justin
Senior Staff WriterNo one asked for another “Jaw” spin-off, yet this summer the big screen 
suffered just this with “The Meg. ” Admittedly, this film was not as bad as the trailers suggested, but that should not the standard summer 
blockbusters are held to. When it came to it, each of the characters were 
superficial, and the plot was inherently predictable; both telling the classic tale of “macho man comes out of retirement to fight the monster, only to find himself falling for the female lead and deep down seeking 
for redemption. ” Yet if you are determined for a 2018 Rainn Wilson and/
or mindless monster-hunting fix, this could be what you’re looking for.
— daisy  scott
A&E Editor
Oakland-based rapper and activist Boots Riley took on directing this year to produce the most innovative comedy of the year. What initially appears to be a story of a young working class black man, 
whose impeccable “white voice” allows him rapid social mobility 
in the telemarketing world, goes on to be an ingenious leftist satire. Ultimately, this movie provides aware social commentary on neoliberalism, its corollary cult of megacorporations, and 
charming CEOs. 
— justin
Senior Staff WriterNetflix’s newest original teen movie starts off promising, like any other 
typical romantic comedy, but “Sierra Burgess is a Loser” still ends up falling flat. With a love story that’s creepier than it is sweet, side 
characters more compelling than the main, and enough secondhand 
embarrassment to last a lifetime, this movie is mediocre at best. Truly, the title of the movie says it all, and should be dutifully renamed as “This Movie is a Loser. ” This is a definite skip — watch “To All the Boys I’ve 
Loved Before” instead.
— JAHFREEN
Contributing Writer
After the deaths of their husbands, four female widows-turned-
heroines must dive headfirst into a heart-pounding heist and an engrossing vengeance arc. With a phenomenal cast that includes 
Viola Davis, Daniel Kaluuya, and a scene-stealing Westie, Widows 
takes a hard and quick look at the corruption within capitalism, 
politics, and justice in America today.
— natalie  tran
Senior Staff WriterShane Black’s fourth installment of the pop culture series abandons its sci-fi and roots in favor of comedic relief. Filled to the brim with cheap quips, overtly floral language, and underdeveloped subplots, 
the film leaves little room for the actual predator. Overall, “The 
Predator” destroys what made the series so great in the first place.
— AARON
Contributing Writerbest  and  worst  of  2018
Infinity War VenomMOVIES:  GOOD MOVIES:  bad
Hereditary The  Meg
Sorry  to  Bother  You Sierra  Burgess  is  a  Loser
Widows The  Predator
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBLIFESTYLE     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu    Fashion is a great way to express yourself as an individual, but today’s 
fashion industry is far from perfect. The industry is rooted in presenting 
the latest trends, which can oftentimes promote materialism and encourage the urge to buy every new clothing item out there. While it can be fun to purchase new items upon their release, fast fashion plays a significant role in 
environmental pollution as well as labor exploitation. Discarded fabrics make 
up a significant portion of landfills, and cheap labor found oversees often puts underprivileged women and children in dangerous working conditions.     When I learned about the repercussions of fast fashion, I tried to cut off 
spending my money at fast-fashion stores like Forever 21 and tried to invest in 
more sustainable pieces. Understandably, sustainable brands can often come with a larger price tag, which made it difficult for me to continuously invest in these clothing pieces. Despite having a college-student budget, I still wanted to think critically about my shopping habits. So how can fashion-conscious 
UC San Diego students with student loan debt partake in sustainable fashion? 
The following tips are a few ways to participate in fashion sustainability without breaking the bank.
Thrift shop
     As UCSD students, we are very privileged to have our very own thrift store on campus, Friends Resale Shop located on Library Walk. If the urge to shop ever strikes during a gap in your class schedule, that option is available. If you want to venture outside of campus, there are many “trendy” thrift stores and vintage shops in North Park and Hillcrest to choose from. While you can 
always find trendy pieces at a thrift store, it may also be helpful to keep an eye 
out for name-brand clothing that will be a fraction of the original cost without sacrificing the quality.
Shop for trendy fast fashion and sustainable basics
     Unless you have a fair amount of money dedicated to spending clothes, it can be difficult to shift your entire wardrobe to only sustainable items. Sometimes college events require clothing attire that you may never wear again, or you really want to try out a clothing trend before purchasing a more expensive and higher quality version. In these cases, it may be more effective 
to shop fast fashion for trendy pieces and sustainable for basics you want in your closet for years to come.
Buy things you know you’ll use
     When selecting a new clothing item to buy, it may be important to evaluate 
how it will fit into your existing wardrobe. A general rule to consider when deciding whether to buy an item is that if you can imagine wearing it in five 
different ways or with five different outfits, then it will probably be a useful 
purchase.
Buy eco-friendly when buying from fast fashion
     H&M is a great example of a fast-fashion store that acknowledges the 
importance of recycling. Not only does it have a line of clothing made from 
recycled fabrics, but it also gives out 15 percent-off coupons when you donate old or used clothing. This clothing is then recycled into more eco-friendly clothing pieces. If a fast-fashion store has these types of options available, purchasing only these items could help signal that there is profit in 
sustainable fashion and could urge executives to put out more products that 
are friendlier to the environment.
Experiment with styling instead of shopping
     As the wise fashion icon Tan France from “Queer Eye” once said, “I don’t 
give a f--- about fashion. ” Although France works in fashion in this reality 
TV show, he recognizes that being able to style a few key pieces well rather than over-purchasing clothing items creates a more fashionable style in the long run. There are many times when a basic outfit can be transformed with a few accessories like belts, jewelry, or shoes. Allowing yourself to experiment 
with accessories you have in your closet or pairing clothing pieces in new 
combinations can create a feeling of a new wardrobe without having to shop for new clothes.     As someone who enjoys fashion and its ability to express individuality, I 
find that the switch to sustainable fashion has not been the easiest. However, 
being conscious of these tips has helped me shop for better quality items that I know will be in my wardrobe for a long time. I hope that these tips will help UCSD students out there who are looking to experiment with fashion while still wishing to play a small but significant role in helping the environment 
and the world. by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Staff WriterHow to Shop Sustainably as a F ashion-Conscious College 
Student 12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  D E C E M B E R  3 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Monday
Dec 10th
10pmAs fun as the holiday season is, buying gifts for friends 
and family can bring a lot of unwanted stress, especially 
when it comes to White Elephant games or Secret Santa. 
The idea is to buy something cute and fun that won’t cost 
much, but how often are we actually sent home with a gift we’ll use in the future? Before you go buying that lotion set 
from Walgreens or regifting that scented candle you received 
last year, check out some of these cheap, yet not-so-horrible 
gift ideas:
1. Photo album  — If you’re looking to personalize your 
gift while staying under budget, head to your local Target or Michaels and pick up a photo album! Comb through your 
phone or computer for the best snapshots to print out and 
start filling the album with your favorite memories. This is a great way to be more thoughtful with your gift, while not having to spend too much to show it! (Felt Photo Album; 
Target, $9.99 https://www.target.com/p/felt-photo-album-navy-holds-two-4-x6-photos-per-page/-/A-51071687)
2. Fun String Lights  — I have never met someone that 
doesn’t enjoy having string lights around their room, and I doubt you have either. Whether they’re regular Christmas 
string lights or something more whimsical, you’ll be sure to light up someone’s holiday! (Flamingo String Lights; Target, 
$9.99 https://www.target.com/p/large-led-flamingo-string-
lights-white-room-essentials-153/-/A-53211016) 
3. Portable Speaker  — For your music loving friends, 
a portable speaker is the perfect gift for them to take their 
music everywhere they go, especially on your next beach day at La Jolla Shores! (Portable Bluetooth Speaker; Best Buy, 
$12.99 https://www.bestbuy.com/site/insignia-portable-
bluetooth-speaker-2-red/5496201.p?skuId=5496201)
4. Wall Art  — If you’re a Secret Santa, find out what 
show, movie, book, etc. is your friend’s or family member’s 
favorite and find a fun poster for their wall. If they’re a “Parks and Recreation” fan, chances are they’ll welcome 
anything with Ron Swanson on it. Instead of taking a chance on an art piece you might like, but they might not, go for 
something silly that you know will get a laugh! (“Parks 
and  Recreation” Poster; Redbubble, $13.39 https://www.redbubble.com/people/fancydancynancy/works/24879397-
breakfast-foods?cat_context=u-prints&grid_
pos=7&p=poster&rbs=874dd2bf-4974-4de2-9b11-
13a53bbf4559&ref=shop_grid&searchTerm=posters%20parks%20and%20rec) 
5. Coloring Book  — I know this may sound like the perfect 
gift for someone five and under, but adult coloring books 
are great stress reducers. Pick up a book and some colored 
pencils for your friend in need of some easy relaxation time. (Bob Ross Coloring Book; Barnes and Noble, $15.26 https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-bob-ross-coloring-book-
bob-ross/1125855122?ean=9780789327727#/) How to be the Best Secret Santa For Under $20 
by Colleen Conradi // Lifestyle Staff Writer
‘Tis the season! December is upon us, and it is now 
socially acceptable to wrap everything in tinsel and trim 
that tree you bought after Halloween. As you start decking 
the halls this holiday season, here is a playlist of some of my 
favorite Christmas songs that will be sure to help you spread some Christmas cheer.
The Classics:
• “A l l  I  Wa n t  F o r  C h r i s t m a s  I s  Yo u ”  b y  M a r i a h  C a r e y
• “Jingle Bell Rock” by Bobby Helms
• “It’s the Most Wonderful Time of the Year” by Andy   
Williams
• “Rockin’ Around the Christmas Tree” by Brenda Lee
• “Santa Baby” by Eartha Kitt• “I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus” by The Jackson 
5
The Celebrity Remix:
• “Sleigh Bells” by the Ronettes, PhatCap! Trap remix 
• “Underneath the Tree” by Kelly Clarkson
• “Santa’s Coming for Us” by Sia
• “Santa Tell Me” by Ariana Grande 
• “Baby It’s Cold Outside” by Idina Menzel and 
Michael Bublé 
• “Winter Wonderland/Don’t Worry Be Happy” by 
Pentatonix
• “Big Kid Again” by Chance the Rapper 
• The Sad and Simp Ones:• “Lonely Christmas” by Scotty Sire ft. Heath Hussar
• “Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)” by Michael 
Bublé
• “Last Christmas” by Wham!• “Blue Christmas” by Elvis Presley• “That’ s Christmas T o Me” by Pentatonix
• “I’ll Be Home for Christmas” by Bing Crosby
The ‘I did not come to mess around, it’s time to get JOLLY’:
• “Feliz Navidad” by Jose Feliciano• “Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays” by NSYNC 
On that joyous note, I hope you have a wonderful holiday 
season and spend it with someone special.Jingling with Joy: A Christmas Playlist  
by Natalie Duprey //  Lifestyle Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS CAMERA LUCIDATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
DEC 3 - DEC 9
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 3 • 7pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
JON PADEN: DADUM - VAF 306 
PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL 
ARTS FACILITY
An exhibition by MFA candidate Jon Paden, 
Dadum investigates new ways of recreating 
memories using digital tools. Exploring 
re-creations of those lost, object reminiscences, and how these structures translate into digital becomings. The exhibition memorializes the artists deceased father and makes an attempt to bring Padens memory of him into a shareable somatic gesture. The works look toward conversations on data, particularly as we grow ever-tethered to our digital self. Exploring how the next-gen interface with this digital self is 
becoming immersive. Padens research here at 
UCSD has focused on ways data is handled and 
the role immersion will play in our growing social digital self. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
5pm
ELF, COOKIES, & CARDMAKING - 
THE STAGE ROOM
Come DeStress and make holidays cards/note 
card sets at The Stage Room! There will be 
cookies to snack on while watching the holiday 
classic, ELF!
2pm
SINDHU THIRUMALAISAMY: THE 
LAKE AND THE LAKE - SME 149, STRUCTURAL & MATERIALS 
ENGINEERING BUILDING 
Thesis screenings from MFA candidate Sindhu 
Thirumalaisamy. Amidst the Special Economic Zones of India's Silicon Valley is a place that is both a wasteland and a protected wetland. The lake is home, work, waste, and a view, depending on whom one stands with. This film is in Bangla, Hindi, Kannada, English, and other (non-human) languages, subtitled in English. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.eduTUE12.04
THU12.06MON12.03
10am
YOGA ZONE - THE ZONE 
Taught by a FitLife instructor, this free program 
is on first come, first serve basis. All materials 
including yoga mats are provided. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE 
coffee, tea and snacks! Come destress with 
University Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall 
quarter! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
IMPROVISOR'S ENSEMBLE - THE 
ZONE
Professor Mark Dresser is an internationally 
acclaimed bass player, improviser, composer, 
and interdisciplinary collaborator. Since 2006 
he has been researching, performing, and 
composing in the field of telematic 
performance. He was a co-coordinator, 
composer, performer, and conductor of Deep 
Tones for Peace, a 2009 Internet performance 
collaborating live between Jerusalem and New 
York City. Professor Mark Dresser will be 
performing jazz tunes alongside some of 
UCSD's music students, all created while they 
are up on the stage! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music 
collaboration between four musicians with 
diverse backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a 
unique project matching masterpieces of the 
chamber music repertoire with a group of 
world-class instrumentalists who happen to 
call San Diego home. Under the artistic 
directorship of UC San Diego professor and 
cellistCharles Curtisand anchored by regular 
featured performances by San Diego Symphony 
ConcertmasterJeff Thayer, Formosa Quartet 
violist and USC professorChe-Yen Chen, concert 
pianistReiko Uchida, UC San Diego performance 
faculty and occasional guests, Camera Lucida 
has established a tradition of challenging, 
musically ambitious programs performed with 
the assurance of an established ensemble, with 
the added flexibility of changing 
instrumentation and guests from the 
international chamber music world. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu8am
ONE -DAY BIOTECH MINI-COURSE - 
BIOCOM, LA JOLLA, CA
Attend this one-day course offered jointly by the 
ASCB, Keck Graduate Institute, and Biocom to become more competitive to find jobs in biotech, pharma, and industry.  Course Objectives:
* Learn about processes by which scientific 
discoveries are translated into bioscience ventures and understand common business strategies * Combine your scientific, business, and social skills to become business-ready and competitive for a professional career * Network with representatives from local biotech companies. Contact: tclarke@ascb.org
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
I-HOUSE: GREAT HALL  
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! $5 per person, CASH ONLY. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
4pm
LAST FRYDAY - THE LOFT
University Centers has brought you First Friday and we're back at it again with Last Friday! Come out Week 10 for some free FRIES and a good time with DJs Luwejee Young BC & DJ Curly Fry at The Loft from 4-7pm! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduFRI12.07
7pm
MICHELE RENOUL: PIANO - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
After studying at the Lyon Conservatoire, 
Michele Renoul integrated the Staatliche Hochschule fr Musik in Freiburg where she obtained her undergraduate piano diploma and teaching diploma. She completed her musical training with a masters in piano, Lied performance as well as orchestral and choral conducting. She also gained a virtuosity prize form the Geneva Conservatoire. Michele Renoul has worked with Pierre Sancan, Jacques Rouvier, Vitali Margulis and Laurent Cabasso. She taught in the Lied class at the Hochschule in Freiburg between 1990 and 1992, and since 1994 she teaches piano at the Strasbourg Conservatoire. Michele Renoul performs regularly in France and abroad, notably in the festival at Evian. She has also recorded for Radio Canada and Radio Suisse Romande.
7:30pm
LA JOLLA SYMPHONY & CHORUS - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
The December concerts tease our sense of 
memory. We know Messiah very well, but few know that Mozart re-scored Handels Messiah for a much larger orchestra, making our performance an often-heard rarity. Co-concertmaster David Buckley is soloist in the Second Violin Concerto of Florence Price, a prolific African-American composer that made her long career in Chicago, where her music was championed by the Chicago Symphony in the 1930s. Our collective musical memory is intimately combined with African-American music. Lets always remember that. And lets remember that we are a nation of immigrants, as we celebrate with the stunning music of Chinese-American composer Qing Qing Wang in the 2018 Thomas Nee Commission.SAT12.08WED12.05CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
1pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!  Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn more about what makes you most stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials 
while attempting to outwit your friends, 
colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 
2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
HAPPY HOLIDA YS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Horse strap
5. Crush9. Honeydew, e.g.
14. Land unit
15. Female singer
16. ____ acid (protein component)17. Teen’s dance18. Yeas’ opposites
19. Dressed to the ____
20. Melody
21. Emerald ____22. Restless23. Tent post
25. Ingested
26. Cassava starch
29. Skinny33. Stand up34. Desire for food
35. “The Raven” poet
36. Mamas’ mates
38. “War of ____ Worlds”39. Adventure42. Flower feature44. Teeter-totters45. Willie and Ozzie47. Tax inits.48. Stage awards49. 747, e.g.52. Abrasive particles53. God of love57. Batman’s sidekick58. Pretense59. Negative reply60. Occasion61. Bakery worker62. Cat’s weapon63. Positive answers64. Scottish loch65. CongersDOWN
1. Enthralled2. Light tan3. Steamy appliance
4. Arch enemy
5. Madman
6. Juneau’s state7. Fashion8. Nylons
9. Aquatic mammal
10. Noteworthy
11. Dryer fuzz12. Small bills13. Very inquisitive
24. Boot tip
25. “Heidi” setting
26. Cassettes27. Got up28. Fragment
29. Health resort
30. Likewise
31. Patriot ____ Allen32. Staggers34. King Kong, e.g.36. Cats’ feet37. Classified ____40. Foolish41. Mom and dad42. Layer43. Perfume45. Sounds46. Registers48. Cease-fire49. Hunted animal50. Adore51. Lincoln and Vigoda52. Smile54. ____ model55. October’s stone56. BastesAPARTMENTS
Single Room Available near SDSU - $1,045 
per month. Looking for someone to take over my lease. Lease will end in July 2019! There is nothing wrong with these apart -
ments, I am just moving to another city! You will have your OWN room and bathroom, and you will be sharing a living room and kitchen with ONE other roommate. The room is on the bottom floor right near the parking garage! If interested please text me! ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1050 Island Ave #322 $2300. Urban loft 
at M2i - 1 Bedroom facing courtyard w/ balcony! - Urban loft at M2i - 1BR/1BA with floor-to-ceiling windows facing the quiet courtyard. This unique condo has 11 FT exposed concrete ceilings, distressed-hardwood flooring, and custom-painted Artwork walls showing great detail. Great room feel featuring custom-made island in kitchen, …  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
11656 Miro Circle $2395. Beautiful Two-
Bed/Two-Bath Condo in Desirable Scripps Ranch - Beautiful two-bed/two-bath con -dominium in a park-like setting in desirable Scripps Ranch! … ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
CARS
2015 Ford F-Series - $22,995. ngot Silver 2015 Ford F-150 XLT Super CabMossy Ford in Pacific Beach is your Ford Store in San Diego. Stop by today or call (858)273-XXXX for more information.Awards: * Green Car Journal 2015 Green Car Technology Award * NACTOY 2015 North American Truck of the Year * … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Toyota Prius Plug-In Advanced, 25,512 
miles - $18,000. ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2016 Dodge Challenger SXT Plus 19,000 
miles (San Diego)- $15,400. Hi I’m selling my 2016 dodge challenger SXT plus V6 3.6 Engine Automatic transmission Very clean car inside outside Run and drive excellent Salvage title 19,000mis car has a lot of options Navigation system + back up cam -
era + Bluetooth + Radio wit. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
HARO Pivit (Mira Mesa)- $400. Hello 
everybody selling my HARO Pivit com -
muter bike. I only used this to commute 
to work from home and only had it for 
a month. Bought it brand new at SD 
wheel works on Miramar road brand 
new for $600 so it’s still in new condi -
tion. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
KHS 29” Carbon Hardtail (Vista) - $2950. 
Like New Size Medium 29” Carbon Hardtail Mountain Bike. Very little use. eleven Speed SRAM XX1 Drivetrain Fox 
32 Float Factory 29” Fork (with Lockout.  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Lager Se Bike with helmet and other 
accessories (San Diego) - $150. Lager Se bike in super condition along with accessories such as helmet, head-light, tail-light, lock, pump-set. It is used for 1 and half year ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
This week, the UC San Diego 
men’s basketball team swept two 
road matchups. On Thursday, UCSD 
defeated California State University, Monterey Bay 72–61 led by the big man redshirt junior center Chris Hansen with 23 points. Then, the team 
defeated California State University, San Marcos 62–58 despite blowing a 
22-point lead. During the week, UCSD improved to 7–1 on the season and 4–0 
in the California Collegiate Athletic Association. Its next matchup is 7:30 p.m. next Thursday at RIMAC against 
San Francisco State University. 
Thursday
On Thursday, the Tritons were on 
the road against the CSUMB Otters. This was their first matchup of the 
year against the Otters andthey will play them again at the tail-end of the season on Feb. 28. Once again, Hansen was the star of the show as he led the Tritons this game in both points and 
rebounds with 23 and 8, respectively. 
Hansen missed all of last season with an injury but does not look like he has missed a beat, as we are only eight games into the season and he appears to be in playo ff form. Behind Hansen, 
the Tritons were never in any danger 
to lose this game as they le ft Monterey 
Bay with a 72–61 victory.
This game started as a back-and-
forth contest with neither team being able to pull away. In the first half, 
there were 5 lead changes and 5 ties. 
With just under 4 minutes le ft, the 
Tritons got a  3-pointer from redshirt sophomore point guard Mikey Howell, 
which catapulted them to a 24–22 
lead. This also began a 11–2 run for 
the Tritons;before the Otters knew it, they sat 8 points back against the tough 
Tritons. This was especially nice for 
the Tritons, who typically do not rely 
on Howell for point scoring. Howell is more of a facilitator for the Tritons; his skills lie in passing and creating 
open shots for others. Howell finished 
with 8 points, 2 boards, and 2 assists. 
The Tritons carried a 32–25 lead into 
halftime.
After halftime, the Tritons put the 
game away. They went into hal ftime 
with a 7-point lead but by the remaining 7 minutes in the second half, that lead had grown to 17. As usual,Hansen dominated the second half, putting up 11 points in only 12 second-half minutes. Redshirt freshman Tyrell 
Roberts is becoming an integral part of 
the Tritons squad, as he led the team in minutes again and led the Tritons with 5 assists. Once again, the Tritons had 
a nice performance from their bench, 
outscoring CSUMB 16–3 in bench points on the night.
Thursday was a nice clean 72–61 
win for the Tritons on Thursday 
against a CSUMB team that still has yet to win a game this season. If they want any hope in the NCAA tourney in March, they have to win games like 
this. The Tritons followed through on 
that premise with a nice win improving 
to 6–1 this year.
Saturday
On Saturday, the Tritons were 
forced to go on the road again, this time against CSUSM, and they came away with a close 62–58 win. This was 
the Tritons’ closest margin of victory 
all season as they improved to an 
impressive 7–1. Hansen was unable to get his usual 20 points that night so the Tritons were forced to spread the ball around more than usual. In fact, the no Triton was able to score 15 points. The three top scorers were junior 
forward Scott Everman, redshirt junior 
guard Connor Peterson, and Roberts. 
Nonetheless, the Tritons came away with a narrow 4-point victory a fter 
Roberts hit a clutch 3-point shot with 
1 minute le ft to give the Tritons a lead 
they would not give up.
When this game tipped o ff, it did 
not seem like the type of game that was 
going to go down to the wire. Within 
the first 10 minutes, the Tritons had a 
14-point lead, leading the Cougars by 
a score of 24–10. The Tritons did not 
stop there. They led the entire first half 
and ended the first 20 minutes with 
a 17-point, 45–28 lead. In this half, UCSD’s bench dominated CSUSM’s  as it outscored them in first-half bench 
points 17––2. The Tritons scored 
48 of their 62 points in the first half, 
including 11 from Everman.
For as good as the first half was, the 
second half was equally as bad. The 
Tritons were only able to muster up 17 points in the second half compared to 48 in the first. They shot an abysmal 3 
for 21 in the second half for only 14.3 percent. Much of this is because the Tritons were way too trigger-happy from three. They shot a whopping 21 
shots beyond the arc and only made 
3 of them. Oddly enough, the 3 shots 
that the Tritons did make from three were the only field goals they made in 
the entire half. This is easily the worst 
half of basketball played by the Tritons all season, as their poor shooting let the Cougars right back in the game. 
However, the Tritons made the 
shots that mattered. With only 1:39 
left in the game, Roberts finally got 1 
to drop for 3, which gave the Tritons 
a 59–56 lead. This came just a fter the 
Cougars tied the game at 56, the only 
tie in the game, a fter overcoming a 
22-point de ficit in the game. A fter the 
three from Roberts, redshirt junior 
guard Jeremy Johnson hit 2 clutch free throws to put the game away, giving the 
Tritons a 62–58 lead as time expired. 
The Tritons escaped the Cougars 
with a win and improved to 7–1 on the year. They will be back in action 
on Thursday, Dec. 6 in RIMAC arena 
versus San Francisco State University.
lucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.eduBY lucas armstrong
staff Writer
Men's basketballTriton Men’s 
Basketball Still Undefeated in CCAA
UCSD improves to a 4–0 record 
in CCAA conference. PHOTO COURTESY OF SCOTT FLANDERS16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs SF State
vs SF Stateat Hawaii PacificTBATBAUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Basketball
M BasketballM BasketballM BasketballM Basketball5:30PM7:30PM
11PM
TBATBA12/612/6
12/1612/1712/18
A bitter season came to a bitter 
end on Thursday, as the UC San 
Diego Tritons were shutout by the 
University of Bridgeport Knights 2–0 
in the cold conditions of Highmark Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in the NCAA Division-II semi finals. 
The Tritons controlled the game 
early on against the Knights and maintained that control for much of the match. Outshooting Bridgeport 18–11 overall, and 12–5 in the 
second-half, the barrage by UCSD 
only led to 4 shots on goal, all of which were saved by the Knight’s star goalkeeper Jennifer Wendelius, 
who won 19 games in goal this 
season. 
Early on in the first-half, the Tritons had a tight grip on o ffensive 
opportunities, unleashing 4 shots, 3 of which came from senior forward Mary Reilly, and attempting 4 corner kicks all in the first 25 minutes of the 
match, though they were unable to get a shot on goal. 
After mostly controlling the 
game for the first forty minutes, 
the Tritons ceded possession to the Knights, who took the final two 
shots of the half, one of which was saved by redshirt junior goalkeeper Angelica Ramos, one of her two 
saves of the night. 
Bridgeport took this second-half 
momentum into the locker room 
and brought it back out to start the 
second-half. A fter stopping a UCSD 
surge and a flurry of shots capped 
off by a Wendelius save, the Knights 
stormed back down the field, scoring the go-ahead goal on a set piece 
from mid field that gave Bridgeport’s 
sophomore mid fielder Amanda 
Ebbesson a shot from inside the box in the 53rd minute. 
After the goal, the Tritons 
were charged with 3 fouls, which eventually culminated in a free kick for the Knights, where they netted 
their second goal in the 73rd minute.
UCSD would continue to apply 
pressure on the Knights’ defense, 
forcing 2 saves from Wendelius. The 
Triton’s last chance came on a shot 
from senior forward Megumi Barber 
that reverberated o ff the crossbar, 
which encapsulated the game for UCSD. Even though they put up 
plenty of shots, they were a little bit 
unlucky and were stopped by a solid goalkeeper. 
After battling through an underdog season and coming out nearly unscathed entering the playoffs, the Tritons had plenty 
of momentum heading into the NCAA playo ffs. After losing their 
final regular season game 1–0 to 
the California State University, Chico, UCSD went on a 5–0 run to reach the semi finals, earning their 
third straight California Collegiate Athletic Association title along the way. The Tritons outscored their 
opponents 16–3 during regulation time over this stretch, with a thrilling 
third-round win in penalties against 
16th-ranked Western Washington University, a team they shut out in their second game of the season. 
An 11-day layover between the 
third-round and quarterfi nal wins 
in Texas and the semi final game may 
have staunched some of the team’s momentum, as UCSD never had a break of this magnitude at any point during the regular season.
What a regular season it was. The 
Tritons dominated the CCAA for 
the third year in a row, going 19–3–2 
overall and 10–2 in CCAA play. The 
team’s best feature was its play at home. In going 11–0 at home, UCSD 
defended extremely well, shutting 
out the opposition 5 times over the course of the season. 
While the coaching situation is 
not fully settled for next season, a 
team that featured 24 underclassmen 
should be able to compete once again in 2019. 
Women's soccerUCSD Women’s 
Soccer falls 
short in NCAA 
finals
UCSD finishes a deep 
postseason run, losing 
2–0 to end the season.PHOTO COURTESY O F  UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
BY jack dorfman
 contributing Writer
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
After only a single home game 
stretch, the 14th-ranked UC San 
Diego women’s basketball team competed on the road once again 
this past Thursday, Nov. 29 and 
Saturday, Dec. 1. Showing previous success as visitors already this 
season, the Tritons came out on top 
against CCAA opponents California 
State University, Monterey Bay 77–
41 and California State University, 
San Marcos 54–52.
With the two victories, the 
Tritons continue their unbeaten campaign, improving their record to 
7–0 overall and 3–0 in conference.
No. 14 UCSD @ CSUMB: 77–41
Seaside, CA—Another double-
digit blowout of the CSUMB Otters left the Tritons quite comfortable inside Th e Kelp Bed.
An aggressive 26-point first 
quarter for UCSD set the tone for the remainder of the game. The 
Tritons limited the Otters to only 7 points in the first eight minutes 
and 18 total by the time the buzzer sounded for hal ftime.
Junior forward Mikayla Williams 
led the Blue and Gold with 16 
points from the field and a massive 
8 rebounds solely on the defensive 
end. A perfect 2–2 from the free-
throw line and an 87.5 percent (7–8) 
shooting percentage put Williams as 
the game’s highest scorer.
Several other Tritons trailed 
Williams by just a few points, contributing to the overall team 
effort in Thursday evening’s triumph. 
Junior forward Haleigh Hat field 
tallied 14 points, 8 rebounds, and 2 
steals that night.Freshman guards Brianna Claros 
and Julia Macabuhay continue to make strides in their rookie seasons, 
dropping 24 points combined — an 
even split of 12 points apiece. From 
beyond the arc, Claros was 3–4 and 
Macabuhay was 2–2. Macabuhay 
also recorded 3 assists and 2 steals.
The Tritons put the game away 
during the third quarter, scoring 
24 points to CSUMB’s 9, leaving little room for a potential Otter 
comeback. In addition, redshirt 
freshman guard Emily Cangelosi 
scored 10 points, and senior guard 
Joleen Yang collected 4 assists.
Dominating inside the paint, 
UCSD executed 30 points to CSUMB’s 14 there and capitalized 
on 13 second-chance opportunities 
to the Otters’ 4. An 8–0 fast break 
ratio sealed the deal for the Tritons.
No. 14 UCSD @ CSUSM—54–52San Marcos, CA—A local trip 
just 30 minutes up Interstate 15 
resulted in favor of the current 
CCAA first-place team over the 
CSUSM Cougars.
Both contenders entered the 
game looking for their third conference win this 2018-19 season. 
Though a rather lower-scoring 
game compared to typical Triton performance, UCSD found a way to make it work one way or another.
The Cougars broke out in 
front 18–9 in the first quarter 
and sustained their lead 24–17 heading into the locker room a fter 
the second. However, the Tritons bounced back strong and finished 
the game in ways only they know 
how. A 37-point second half would 
do the job.
Macabuhay rose to the occasion, 
putting the team on her rookie back and scoring what ended up being 
the game-winning bucket. With the 
clock winding down, Macabuhay 
drove to the basket for a layup two 
seconds before time expired.
As expected, Williams racked 
up another double-double thanks 
to her 20 points and 14 rebounds. 
She also had 4 blocks and 2 steals. 
Macabuhay finished with 7 points, 
including possibly the biggest shot 
of her career thus far. Yang also 
dropped 11 points in her 33 minutes 
of play.
The Tritons shot 61.5 percent 
(8–13) from the field in the fourth 
quarter to mask their earlier struggles. A come-from-behind battle would send UCSD home from 
The Sports Center pleased with yet 
another “W . ”woMen's basketballTwo Road Wins 
Place No. 14 
Tritons in First 
Place of CCAA
The Tritons start the season 
with a 3-0 conference record.PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
BY madeline lewis
senior staff Writer
Madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu