VOLUME 51, ISSUE 20  MONDA Y , MARCH 12, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
This past week, A.S. Senate 
approved a campus-wide resolution 
to make textbooks more affordable 
for students. This comes after 
CalPIRG, the national student-
run organization spearheading the 
campaign behind the resolution, 
presented findings on the increasing education costs students are faced 
with that may adversely affect their 
ability to obtain college degrees. 
The policy focus of the campaign 
is to institute grant-funded, open 
educational resource programs on 
college campuses and to ban single-use access codes. 
With potential funding from 
the library, ongoing petitions, and the possibility of A.S. Council and 
CalPIRG representatives placing 
the campaign on the A.S. Senate 
meeting agenda in the foreseeable 
future, students remain committed 
to the battle against the financial 
challenges that accompany pursuing a higher education.    
Resolutions passed in student 
government serve primarily as 
documentation that may later be 
referenced when lobbying campus 
officials. This resolution was no 
different. A.S. Council and CalPIRG 
activists mutually voiced the procedural affirmation as a path toward increasing student access 
to less costly alternatives when obtaining course materials. 
The 2016 “Covering the Cost” 
report conducted by CalPIRG, 
which analyzed data taken from 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics since 
2006, indicate that the price of 
textbooks and supplies has risen four times that of inflation, spurring an 
increase by 88 percent. In contrast, 
college tuition and fees went up by 
63 percent during the same period. 
As a result, ongoing surveys 
starting from the 2014 report “Fixing Students Ask 
Questions and Criticize HDH 
at Open Forum 
Many of students’ concerns were 
in regards to the use of dining 
dollars, campus sustainability, 
and vegetarian food options.
A panel of Housing Dining 
Hospitality representatives discussed 
recent contracts and changes to 
be made at an open forum held in Revelle College’s Formal Lounge on 
Wednesday, March 7. The forum 
aimed to address student concerns and complaints regarding UC San 
Diego’s HDH services, and gave 
students the opportunity to voice criticisms, offer suggestions, and ask 
questions of the HDH panel. 
The HDH panel consisted of 
Associate Director of HDH Russell King, Acting Director of Dining 
Services Lisa Joy, and three managers of on-campus restaurants. 
Of the many issues raised by 
students, most centered around dining halls, campus sustainability 
and residential services, such as 
washing and drying machines. Issues regarding the unhealthy quality of 
many dishes offered on campus 
and general lack of both vegan and vegetarian options were addressed 
as well. 
Damin Curtis, a project director 
for the Student Sustainability Collective, approached the panel 
with a list of demands that included the freedom to opt out of dining 
plans, competitive prices, affordable 
and healthy food, and complete transparency with the student body. 
He also advocated for the creation 
of a Student Oversight Committee that would have decision-making 
and veto power on HDH decisions 
relating to student services. 
Lisa Joy, acting director of dining 
services, addressed the topic of the compulsory dining dollars program. 
“The dining plan is there to equip 
first year and transfer students with the ability to make sure that their basic needs are covered. It allows 
us to build and budget for services 
which help residents. In order for that to happen, we need funding from the dining plans to fund those 
services, ” Joy stated. 
Joy also remarked that meals 
prepared in on-campus restaurants tend to be higher in price, as the pay 
for kitchen staff is incorporated into meal pricing. “Y es, it is cheaper to 
cook for yourself, when sixty percent 
of the cost goes to our staff, ” Joy said. 
Revelle College sophomore 
Megan Sperry spoke out against faulty on-campus washing machines. 
“HDH should take a part in 
making sure that whoever they lease laundry out to is servicing machines as students pay for them, ” Sperry 
said.CAMPUS
BY Rebeca Camacho
staff Writer 
BY  Abigail Staggemeier
 STAFF Writer
A.S. Senate Approves Resolution to Promote Affordable Textbooks
A student speaks at the Stand-Up for Di fference show hosted by Muir ResLife. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
See CALPIRG,  page 3 See HDH FORUM,  page 3Only 12 people will be running for the 
14 all-campus, elected positions on A.S. 
Council this election cycle, the candidate 
filing list for the 2018 election indicates. With 
three candidates vying for the five campus-wide 
senator positions, one candidate competing for the 
two off-campus senator spots, and no one running for transfer senator, there will automatically be 
four vacancies at the termination of the A.S. 
elections.
This year’s slate list also differs from past 
A.S. elections because there is only one slate — EMPOWER — fielding candidates, whereas in the last several election cycles there have been two competing slates and independent candidates. Due 
to the absence of a second slate, the candidates 
for vice president external, campus-wide senator, off-campus senator, engineering senator, arts and 
humanities senator, and social sciences senator will 
be running unopposed.
Two candidates are running as independents, 
one for president and one for vice president of campus affairs.
All candidates running for A.S. Council and 
the individual college councils gathered in Price Center last night for a mandatory meeting to review the campaign rules and pose for headshots.
After the meeting, EMPOWER candidate for president Kiara Gomez addressed the disparity between A.S. candidates and available positions to 
the UCSD Guardian.
“People have been having a lot of issues as far as 
A.S. resignations goes, ” Gomez stated, referencing the resignations of eight current members. “My 
slate was really strategic in picking people who were going to stay. That’s why we don’t have a full 
slate. ” 
Independent presidential candidate Kevin 
Bologne also commented on the lack of candidates.
“That’s a disaster, ” Bologne told the Guardian. 
“I think we need a lot more people running. ”
Gomez noted that the fact that many of her 
slate’s candidates are running unopposed will not cause her slate to approach campaigning with less 
effort than if they were competing against a second slate.
“If one of us is opposed, it’s like all of us are 
opposed, ” Gomez stated. “I think if we’re running on a platform that we’re trying to reach A.S. 
visibility and student engagement, if we slack off 
now in elections, what will that say about how we do our term?”
Addressing last year’s voter turnout rate of 
18.74 percent, A.S. Elections Manager Michelle Nguyen explained to the Guardian that increasing 
turnout is a priority for her.   By  Lauren  Hol t    news editorASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Too Few Students Are Running for A.S. Council to Fill All Positions
The resolution was dra fted by CalPIRG as part of its campaign to lower the costs of education.See ELECTIONS,  page 3PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
SUDDEN & SEVERE 
DANCE CUTS
The dance department’s 
shocking decision to cut 
multicultural dance classes 
threatened to homogenize 
a curriculum previously 
renowned for its diversity. Even 
after students fought back and 
dance classes were reinstated, 
problems persist.
COMPOSTING
THE  ACES  Q&AEducating  Students  
WE  CHAT  IT  UP  WITH  THE  BANDOPINION,  Page   4
A&E,  PAGE  11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“A.S. Council is 
decidedly clunky, 
structurally unsound, 
and personally shaken. 
But it is ultimately made 
up of well-intentioned, 
some of whom were just 
unequipped to handle 
the stress"
- THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
EDITORIAL BOARD
OPINION, PAGE 4Features,   PAGE  6 
MONDAY
H 67 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54
ILLUSTRATION BY ALLYSON LLACUNA
TUESDAY
H 69 L 58
THURSDAY
H 62 L 52
MUIR MURAL................2
QUICKTAKES................4
TUNNELS......................7
FACULTY Q&A.............10
W. SOFTBALL..............16UCSD2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ROOMATES By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Everyone, shut up! The neighbors are calling...it’s shot o’clock.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarJohn Muir College Student Council Planning to Create New Mural Focused on Sexuality and the Body
The mural is a student-run project in consultation with the LGBT Resource Center and the Student Sustainability Collective. ART
John Muir College Council 
is pushing to bring a new mural 
centered around student involvement 
and self-identity to the UC San Diego 
campus, specifically on the wall facing the Muir Quad near the Muir Garden. The details behind the mural are 
still being worked out by the Mural 
Committee, as the idea of the mural is still in the early stages. 
John Muir College junior and A.S. 
Senator Alexandra Harbert explained 
how the mural was an inspiration 
taken from other campus art. 
“It came from looking around at 
the student art. I know we have the 
Stuart Collection, but I really like the 
mural in Peterson Hall and I thought Muir could use some, too, ” Harbert explained to the UCSD Guardian. 
Muir College sophomore Roy 
Velasquez, the second A.S. senator representing Muir, mentioned the importance of the mural as a way of bringing the student community together. 
“We wanted this to be more 
student-centric, both with the committee and everything we are doing, ” Velasquez said. “Y es, we are 
working with [administration] when 
necessary, but we wanted to make sure it was the students’ vision and a student-driven project. ”
The theme of the mural is centered 
around the idea of self-identity and the Muir College motto of celebrating the independent spirit. Originally, the mural started off with the idea 
of sustainability, but after some 
discussion, the theme expanded to sexuality and the body. 
“It expanded to sexuality with 
the Living-Learning Communities 
and after talking to the LGBT 
Resource Center, it became the idea of communities as well as the Earth, ” Harbert explained. 
Velasquez explained that the theme of sustainability is still important to the mural. 
“We talked to UCSD Student 
Sustainability Collective because we want it to have to do with sustainability of the environment, ” Velasquez said. “Instead of jam-packing the image 
with so many themes, we can have the 
theme of sustainability in the makeup of the mural, how it is actually created or how it is actually constructed. ”
Working with SSC would also help 
with drives to ask students to bring in material to contribute to the makeup of the mural. 
Harbert and Velasquez further 
developed the idea after talking to Muir Provost Wayne Yang, who recommended looking into indigenous artists because UCSD is on Kumeyaay land. They are talking 
to the Native American Student 
Alliance about a collaborative effort on the mural. 
John Muir College junior Anokhi 
Saklecha is enthusiastic about the mural.
“I think public art is a huge part of 
UCSD’s campus and the Muir mural 
will add to the color and beauty of the 
community, ” Saklecha said. “I feel like this mural will embrace the close-knit community that Muir fosters while 
also celebrating the independent 
spirit that Muir represents. ”
Harbert and Velasquez hope to 
find an artist late spring quarter and start working on the mural either 
during the summer or fall quarter. 
Currently, they are talking to Housing Dining Hospitality representatives to work out the logistics of the mural 
before they decide on an artist. 
Students are free to participate in 
the planning for the mural by joining 
the Mural Committee in Muir College Council.  
Tanaya Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.eduBY Tanaya Sawant
staff Writer
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIANNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
A.S. Election 2018
as.ucsd.edu/elections Vote on TRITONLINK
April 9-13
TO
THE“We definitely are aware 
of voter turnout in general, ” 
Nguyen said. “Just having high 
voter turnout is one of our main priorities. Currently, what 
we’re focused on is more about 
informing students of both the [transportation fee] referendum 
and the candidates in general. ”
Gomez summarized her slate’s 
platform as “students helping 
students. ”
“It’s about retaining not only 
student leaders, but making 
sure that you’re bringing up the 
communities you represent with you, ” she added.
Bologne, on the other hand, 
is running mainly on the issue of fixing problems with Housing, Dining, and Hospitality.
“HDH is treating us like 
commodities, ” Bologne stated, “They just want to extract money from us, and they don’t 
do much that benefits us, like 
how expensive the stuff is at the markets. ”  
Campaigning began as soon 
as the Price Center meeting adjourned at approximately 8:40 p.m. 
Voting will occur April 9 
through April 13, during Week 2 
of Spring Quarter. The full list of 
college and A.S. candidates can be viewed on Tritonlink.     
 Campaigning Officially Began on Thursday Night
▶ ELECTIONS, from page 1
For a while, there was just one 
operational machine on her floor. 
“The one machine that was fixed 
broke again immediately — HDH should reconsider contracts as 
clothes are being destroyed, ” urged 
Sperry. 
Sperry’s comments were echoed 
by many in the room, including several students who claimed to have lost money on the washing 
machines and had been responded 
to rudely by maintenance staff. 
HDH’s contract with the 
Coca-Cola company was another popular topic, particularly as it raised concerns about compliance 
with the recent water bottle ban. 
Students such as Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Page Harris 
questioned, “Why did HDH decide 
to pursue the contract given the petition by students asking water bottles to being sold on campus, in line with HDH’s own goal to be 
waste free by 2020?” 
Joy responded by pointing out 
that the new contract stipulates that any plastic bottles to be sold 
on campus may not hold less than 20 fl oz, but bottles containing 
greater amounts of liquid are 
permitted in accordance with the contract. 
The HDH panel stated that its 
takeaway from the forum was the need to implement better methods 
of obtaining student feedback, 
and increase student awareness pertaining to contracts and 
contract updates. the Broken Textbook Market” 
establish that more than $3 
billion in financial aid each year is diverted toward paying 
for textbooks. 
At least 65 percent of 
students admitted to opting 
out of purchasing course 
materials required for full engagement and overall 
success in their courses. 
Instituting grant-funded, 
open educational resource 
programs and banning 
single-use access codes are 
the main goals of a two-part 
plan CalPIRG is working on 
to combat soaring prices of required didactic material. 
“So OERs are open 
educational resources on 
campuses, and free peer-
reviewed textbooks, ” Sophie Haddad, Sixth College student 
and vice chair of CalPIRG told the UCSD Guardian. “So a 
professor, instead of assigning 
an expensive textbook for a 
course, can compile online course material that’s free for 
students, which will take the 
financial burden off students. ”
OER programs have 
already been implemented on the three campuses of 
Rutgers University in New Jersey, and the University 
of Massachusetts Amherst. According to CalPIRG’s 
2018 study “Open 101: An 
Action Plan for Affordable 
Textbooks,” “Switching the 
ten introductory classes in our study to OER nationwide would save students $1.5 
billion per year in course 
materials costs. ”
OER programs require a 
significant amount of funding, from which university libraries 
are often considered. 
“The library has a 
significant amount of funding. Just last week, we did a 
presentation with the library and the bookstore which went 
really well, ” Haddad stated. 
“We’re sitting down with library now to draft a grant 
proposal. The resolution will 
help support us along the way. ” 
Banning access codes 
would also account for a substantial share of course 
materials, and CalPIRG has 
already garnered 34 UC San 
Diego faculty signatures. The next step is to present it at the 
senate faculty meeting.  
“It’s complicated what role 
the faculty senate would play. ” 
Haddad stated. “Obviously, 
it would be amazing to have 
access to the faculty senate, 
because it would have the 
ability to send out all the information to UC faculty, 
and tell them that this grant 
program exists, or that they 
should ban access codes. ”
Haddad, along with 
CalPIRG and A.S. senate 
members, remain committed 
to enacting policy measures 
that may yield tangible, 
comprehensive results.  
HDH Recognizes Need for Collecting Student FeedbackThe Issue May Go Before the Next Academic Senate
▶ HDH FORUM, from page 1▶ CALPIRG, from page 1
Lauren Hol t  lcholt @ucsd.edu
Abigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.eduRebeca Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.edufollow  us  
on
        twitter
@ UCSD
        GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
UC San Diego finds itself in 
the crosshairs of the largest tech 
deal in history. Well, maybe. 
Singapore-based tech giant 
Broadcom is gearing up to buy our own tech titan: Qualcomm. With a huge offering of $130 billion and 
recent attempts at a hostile board 
takeover, Broadcom is making moves on Qualcomm to say the least. All the while, UCSD stands to lose big — or maybe win bigger 
than ever before. In acquiring 
Qualcomm, Broadcom should take advantage of our pre-existing relationship and work with us to 
usher in a new era of innovation 
and synergy.
 For some background, 
Qualcomm is known for being “the name behind the name,” 
including our own. Responsible 
for creating the chips that make our smartphones smart, Qualcomm has played a pivotal role in the 
tech device industry since the 
1980s and was founded by our own former professor, Irwin M. Jacobs. Ever since, UCSD has relied on its relationship with Qualcomm to 
grow and prosper. Thus, anything 
that happens to them happens to us. Moving to the modern day, Qualcomm has struggled with its 
chip manufacturing profits, relying 
instead on revenue from licensing agreements and patent royalties to keep the company afloat. Enter Broadcom.
 Broadcom swiped right 
on Qualcomm back in November, coming to the table with a $103 billion acquisition offer. In spite of 
further pickup lines and courtship, 
Qualcomm continues to play hard to get. Essentially, it would rather have Broadcom as a friend and says it isn’t looking for anything 
serious. Further, Qualcomm has 
told its friends (i.e shareholders) it deserves better (more money) and has asked the U.S. government 
to step in for a national security 
review. Think about that time you used studying for finals to get out of a bad date. Same thing here. Unfortunately for Qualcomm, 
Broadcom anticipated all of this. It 
brought its A game. The company has since promised to repatriate its headquarters from Singapore 
to San Jose, pledge $1.5 billion 
to fund U.S. cellular innovation against Chinese competitors (there go the national security concerns), and has offered a higher 
acquisition price than ever before. 
Winning over the US government and friends alike, Broadcom has 
dodged every excuse thrown its 
way. The final acquisition figure is anybody’s guess, but Broadcom is going to close. It won’t take no for an answer. 
 So, why should you 
care? Well, since the early 1980s, Qualcomm and its founders have donated nearly $400 million to 
UCSD. Moreover, our cutting 
edge Qualcomm Institute currently supports more than 350 faculty members, nearly 120 technical and professional staff, as well 
as hundreds of students and 
researchers. Outside of these incredible investments, Qualcomm has always been a major employer of our students and maintains a 
rich tradition of working with professional clubs for recruiting 
new-age talent. Thus with Qualcomm, we have unprecedented 
access to jobs and funding. As Rady 
School of Management’s Professor Harold Buchanan said, “There is no organization more important to 
UCSD than Qualcomm.”
 Here comes the tricky 
part. Broadcom is very effective 
at streamlining costs and has developed a real knack for it. With 
this in mind, financial analysts 
think Broadcom would likely cut jobs and spending at Qualcomm in an effort to rein in costs and curb 
poor performance. This potentially 
means less job opportunities at Qualcomm for UCSD students as Broadcom leans out our neighbor. Further, when Broadcom does 
make the move to the U.S., it 
will likely shift its attention and philanthropy efforts on UC Irvine. The two have had a relationship in 
the past and UCIwill likely try hook 
up with Broadcom again in the future. Thus, we stand to lose both past levels of job opportunities and generous donations of our longtime 
partner Qualcomm. Put another 
way, there goes the neighborhood. 
 However, rather than 
roll back its presence in the 
community and specifically on 
campus, Broadcom should ride our electrifying current and invest more, not less, in UCSD. With Qualcomm’s infrastructure 
and network already in place, 
Broadcom should instead take advantage of all UCSD has to offer. We are inventing the digital 
future with our advancements 
in 5G, pioneering data science with the new Halicioğlu Institute, founding the country’s first virtual reality lab — the list goes on and 
on. Further, in direct competition 
with UCI, UCSD’s engineering divisions continue to best theirs year after year, thus investments 
toward UCSD will continue to 
serve a better return. UCSD also takes full advantage of its prime location, working with the top research institutes in the world and 
pushing its students into a hub of 
more than 8,000 tech companies. In short, it’s happening here, not at UCI. We have incredible resources 
of our own and all around us. We 
have the next generation research and development. We have the qualified interns, engineers, and future leaders. Broadcom should 
fish where the fish are and invest in 
UCSD. Our relationship would be a match made in heaven and would 
help spark a new age of progress. 
To sum up, Broadcom will likely 
anchor in San Jose and reel in our 
friendly neighborhood Qualcomm. Upon acquiring, Broadcom should 
take full advantage of Qualcomm’s 
pre-existing relationship with our university, and then some, rather than scale back and shift to UCI 
developments. Our students are 
hooked on engineering. We’re the leaders in the next era of technology. And, as our past shows, we’re always eager to ride 
the first waves of innovation.
 Surf’s up, Broadcom. 
We’re ready if you are.
QUICK-TAKESSHOULD PROFESSORS MANDATE THAT STUDENTS 
ATTEND CLASS BY FIGURING IT INTO THEIR GRADE?
A college degree certifies that a student has acquired 
the skills and knowledge necessary to be considered 
a professional in a particular field; it is not a measure 
of how good they are at guessing clicker questions in 8 a.m. lectures. These days, the reason for pursuing higher 
education is significantly more utilitarian than looking 
for academic fulfillment, often coming from the desire to get a job in a market that increasingly demands more and 
more out of applicants. Along with this shift in purpose, 
there has been a decided shift in pricing, with the cost of education skyrocketing through the past two decades. By 
making attendance and participation in lecture a part of 
the grade, professors are demonstrating a fundamental disconnect from the modern student. Oftentimes people 
work, some people have families, and some people 
don’t learn well in traditional classroom settings; to hold students accountable for attending lecture carries the 
connotation that they have nothing else to do when a lot 
of students are riddled with responsibilities in all realms of their life. 
 Although often absences are due to other 
responsibilities people may have, it is also demoralizing to make it to lecture and have our award-winning faculty reading off of powerpoint presentations. If professors are 
unable to get a large enough crowd to satiate their academic 
egos, they should consider changing their lecture style to being more engaging, making students more willing to 
prioritize attending. Although our faculty is comprised of 
experts in their respective fields, their pedagogical skills often leave a lot to be desired; a great lecturer does not 
mean a great teacher. Why should students be forced to 
attend lectures that don’t benefit them for the sake of participation credits? 
Attending lectures that don’t benefit students presents 
a problem even when professors are good at teaching 
because some students just don’t learn in traditional 
classroom settings. Theswe students spend lecture spacing out or taking notes that they’ll later have to supplement 
with hours of independent learning because lecture was 
not enough for them. People pay tuition in order to have the right to be evaluated for the material a class covers, and 
although there is an option for getting the material from an 
educator, that is not the only way people can learn. Attending college as a full-time student is a lot like 
having a job: Both have responsibilities in and out of the office. One of those responsibilities is actually showing up to perform whatever function the position requires. While an employee differs from a student in that one is paid and the other pays, both have no reason for taking up a particular position if they are not willing to meet the expectations of those positions. Professors have a rhyme and reason for mandating attendance. In order for a student to learn, they must be exposed to all the information that a course seeks to instruct. Lecture and discussion are the mediums by which this occurs. While it is decidedly true that the same information exists in the form of textbooks and online resources, students pay such egregious fees in tuition that the actual value lies in the direct instruction from experts in the field. This is especially true in the context of UC San Diego, which abounds with researchers in their respective fields. Not only do these academics progenate information that cannot be found on some obscure webpage, but they know better than any others which skills and which pieces of knowledge are most integral to entering the modern workforce at high-level positions. A student radically aggravates the educational process by trying to filter the heavy flow of information that may or may not factor into their success in the current field. They may not be entirely aware that skipping class causes longer-lasting stress on their education by limiting that direct instruction, or they may have some scheduling conflict that prohibits their attendance at times; either way, mandatory attendance systems should allow for a few absences. A lot factors into student life, but this simple compromise compels students to take advantage of the resources that exist distinctly on college campuses, namely professors’ knowledge and experiences. Ideally though, this compromise should not have to be compelled; to leave resources untouched defeats the purpose of opting into a program with such high fees. If the primary purpose of becoming a student is to gain the knowledge necessary to move into a desired field, then students need to accept that attendance is integral to reaching that goal.Mandatory Attendance T akes A 
One-Size-Fits-All Approach to 
Education
By : Adriana Barrios // Senior Staff  WriterMandatory Attendance Ensures that Students T ake Full Advantage of  the 
Resources Professors Provide
By : Chris Robertson // Opinion EditorIn efforts to go carbon neutral, the University of 
California system is committed to going zero waste 
by 2020. In order to achieve this goal, UC San Diego 
instituted a number of programs such as installing 
hydration stations and implementing a single-bin 
recycling system, among others. Some of the most 
vital, and most arduous, of these are pre- and post-
consumer composting programs. However, high-level 
contamination on the post-consumer side resulted in 
the recent decision to remove the composting bins from 
dining halls. Since composting is extremely beneficial 
for the environment and directly related to UCSD’s 
sustainability goals, resigning from their responsibility 
to compost is unacceptable. It is imperative for the 
university to put forth an effort to overcome the 
obstacles that led to the high level of contamination of 
post-consumer compost. Specifically, UCSD should 
work to educate students about the importance of 
composting and the proper protocols of trash sorting. 
UCSD and students alike should not underestimate 
the impact composting has. First,  the compost produced 
after processing food scraps could be used in agriculture 
to substitute fertilizers which contaminate groundwater, thus alleviating adverse effects of agricultural 
production. Second, and most importantly, landfills 
cause large emissions of methane in the atmosphere, 
which has been known to contribute to climate change. 
36.7 percent of US greenhouse gases comes from waste 
processing. The majority of this number comes from 
landfills where all our trash goes after we sorted out 
the recyclables, but 25 percent of this trash could be 
composted away from landfills. 
Composting can be tricky, however, since its 
contamination can lead to tragic consequences. 
Contaminated compost can kill the crops and poison 
people who eat them, while plastic or paper can be 
crushed into tiny particles and dispersed along the 
waste territory where it will persist in the soil forever, 
too small to be cleaned up. The strict requirement for 
compost cleanliness is the reason why composting is 
much less common than recycling or landfills. It is also 
the reason that Miramar Greenery, the San Diego City 
landfill and composting facility, has a strict requirement 
of 1 percent contamination — a goal that compost from 
UCSD Dining Halls facility has never managed to 
achieve. See COMPOSTING, page 5 ▶
Ga vin  D'Elia  Gdelia@ucsd.eduA Technological Wave For 
UC San Diego Students To 
Ride
By Gavin D’Elia // Contributing WriterThe Curious 
Case of 
Composting 
at 
UC San Diego
By : Revekka Gershovich // Editorial AssistantOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
Some explained that students 
are to blame for the failure to meet 
compost cleanliness requirements. However, UCSD students are very environmentally minded; they are just not educated enough on the topics of trash sorting and the importance of it. Most students know the significance and ease of recycling, but the protocols associated with composting are far from most students’ homes. So, they dump their trash in one, maximum two, bins guided by unfamiliar guidelines, and 
move on to the rest of their day without 
giving composting a second thought.
The university can prevent such a 
common problem by educating those students on the importance of waste 
sorting in general and composting in 
particular. Indeed, education programs did prove to be important in decreasing 
compost contaminations in Dining Halls. The Washington University 
of St. Louis reported a significant 
decrease in compost contamination 
after the implementation of Washington 
University Green Ambassador waste diversion outreach program which aimed to educate newly arrived 
freshmen on composting. In order 
to decrease post-consumer compost 
contamination, UCSD should also implement an educational program. The most effective way would be to model 
it closely after the Mandatory Sexual 
Harassment Prevention Training from 
Office for the Prevention of Harassment 
and Discrimination that every student 
and faculty member would have to complete before the arrival to campus.
Education can be bolstered by a 
few smaller efforts, as well. Student 
volunteers from organizations like the 
Econauts or the Student Sustainability Collective should give out flyers about compost on library walk. Also, already 
existing pictograms nearby the trash 
containers should be enhanced to 
become more prominent and elaborate. 
Compost bins should also be set 7 feet apart from other bins to prevent rushed students from dumping their 
trash together in a compost can. In this 
way, sustainably-minded students can 
compost the proper items, and students who are not sustainably-minded will not contaminate the compost bins.
Composting is not easy. The 
University, the students, and the faculty 
should all work together to minimize 
our environmental impact and meet 
the University of California zero-waste goal. Many countries such as Austria, 
many cities such as Copenhagen, and 
many universities such as St. John’s 
University are currently composting 
at a high rate. We should not be left behind. 
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
▶ COMPOSTING, from page 4
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
There has always been a distinct gap between the arts 
and sciences here at UC San Diego, which is known first 
and foremost as a Science, Technology, Engineering, and 
Math university. Despite the university’s insincere efforts to attract prospective students by promoting its highly-ranked arts and social sciences departments, the STEM ideal unfortunately continues to define a UCSD education. The university’s sudden decision to make cuts from the dance department last month cemented this commitment to a narrow-minded, completely STEM-oriented education by nearly eradicating the dance department. Tap, jazz, West African dance, beginning Latin dance, and advanced ballet were all cut from the spring schedule until they were quietly reinstated last Wednesday, and the Theatre and Dance Department has yet to offer any public explanation as to why these cuts were made in the first place. 
All of the department’s 
decision-making has taken place behind closed doors. With absolutely no communication with students or faculty about any of these changes, this lack of transparency is contributing to increased uproar over an already myopic situation. 
“Why aren’t we having the 
conversation?” jazz professor Alicia Rincon asked. “Why aren’t they sitting down and telling us and talking to us? These are massive changes. ”
Instead of holding an 
in-person meeting with the impacted faculty about the cuts, the department informed each professor individually of their class’s termination by phone, email, and/or letter, perhaps to more easily avoid the unwanted questioning that would come with meeting in person. These calls and letters have been sporadic, with various faculty members being contacted at different times. As of now, not every professor has even received a letter, and this confusion over the department’s abrupt behavior is universal. 
“ At Christmas time, ” tap and jazz professor Kristin Arcidiacono 
recalled, “I was given a call, and then immediately, the same day, I was sent a revised contract that nobody I had spoken to had ever seen before. “The way the department went about it was very strange. They wanted me to sign something immediately, which wasn’t quite appropriate. I eventually got a formal letter four days ago. ”
This all happened just a few months after the affected professors 
had their contracts renewed. All of the cancelled classes are taught by part-time adjunct faculty, none of whom have tenure. Most of them have been teaching at UCSD for more than twenty years and had never experienced any issues with the dance department until now. The union is currently looking into the situation, and it is uncertain at this time if these professors will have to search for new jobs because it is unclear if cuts will be made again after spring quarter.
“I don’t know if I’ll be leaving, ” Latin dance professor Maria Caligagan said. “The next 2018-19 school year — I have no idea what that’s going to look like, and none of us do. If the Chair knows, they’ve not shared that information with us. ”
The chair of the Theatre and Dance Department, Charles 
Means, declined to be interviewed by the UCSD Guardian.  
There is widespread uncertainty as to why these cuts were 
initially planned for the spring quarter rather than for the start of the new academic year. This abrupt change forced many students who had waited to take these dance classes to change their planned schedules.
“Why spring?” Caligagan asked worriedly. “Why isn’t it set up 
for the new year? That would make a lot more sense because it would at least allow students to plan what they’re going to do. That really is my big concern. I feel terrible for some of these students 
… what are they going to do?”
Rumors are singling out 
budget cuts as the culprit responsible. However, it seems hypocritical to claim the university is lacking in funding when new STEM buildings are constantly springing up around campus. 
“We’re just wondering 
why it’s all on the backs of the dance students, ” Rincon inquired. “ And on certain courses that obviously have high enrollments. They were mentioning that the enrollment is not as important anymore … we are wondering where this came from, what is the mandate, can we have 
some paperwork on it? And no one seems able to give us the written mandate. There are a lot of questions and very little answers. ” 
Not only do these classes satisfy numerous GE requirements 
across all of the colleges, but they also provide students with stress relief, personal enjoyment, and an opportunity to meet new people. All sorts of students, regardless of their major, personal background, or level of dance experience, have enjoyed these incredibly popular classes ever since they were first introduced in the ‘90s — and the extensive waitlists prove it. Many students even sign up for them on their first pass of enrollment. 
“I felt almost betrayed [by] them cutting these classes because 
I came into this school not knowing what I was going to be doing — going into the sciences or the arts, ” John Muir College junior Kamee Mitra  said. “I love having a mix of both worlds, and not having those opportunities for future students is really sad. ”
It is important to note that UCSD is a public school without any 
academic specialization prioritized in its charter, and therefore has the responsibility to give fair consideration to all disciplines offered here — not only the STEM ones. These troubling changes to the dance department mark the latest oversight of the arts by showing where the university’s priorities truly lie.
“I already felt, from being here at UCSD, that the selection 
The dance 
department’s shocking 
decision to cut 
multicultural dance 
classes threatened to homogenize a 
curriculum previously 
renowned for its diversity. Even a fter 
students fought back and dance classes were reinstated, problems with the Th eatre and 
Dance Department continue to persist. 
By Lara Sanli // Contributing Writer
“It is important to note that UCSD is 
a public school without any academic 
specialization prioritized in its charter, and 
therefore has the responsibility to give fair 
consideration to all disciplines offered here 
— not only the STEM ones. These troubling 
changes to the dance department mark the 
latest oversight of the arts by showing where 
the university’s priorities truly lie. ”
Sudden Cuts 
Expose Severe 
Problems 
Within 
UCSD     Dance 
Department
ILLUSTRATION BY ALLYSON LLACUNA
SeeDANCE , page 7’sFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Every day, thousands of 
UC San Diego students traverse campus, not realizing that beneath their feet lies a winding network of underground tunnels. Th e UCSD 
Guardian talked with Stephen Jackson, Director of Facilities Management, about the history and function of this hidden tunnel system.
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
 // Senior Sta ff WriterDigging 
into UCSD
Subterranean 
SecretsILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ▶ DANCE , from page 6
Lara Sanli    lsanli@ucsd.edu
Jade  Knows  His  Gun-Wong    jknowshi@ucsd.eduof what you can do is already limited, ” Earl Warren College senior and Latin 
dance student Shaquille Almarines said, comparing UCSD to other Universities of California. “For them to reduce that even more doesn’t make any sense. Y ou have a class that’s filled every single quarter, and every single quarter has a waitlist on it — but they’re going to cut that class. ”
Other Universities of California, such as UCLA and UC Irvine, have exceptional 
dance programs that encompass a broad range of dance disciplines and celebrate the multicultural dance forms that our university brushes aside. These multicultural classes have always been among the strongest offerings of the UCSD dance 
department, producing highly successful alumni who have gone on to become 
professional dancers, dance teachers, championship coaches, and even World Salsa Champions. Even students who don’t aspire to be professional dancers carry the skills they learn in these classes throughout life, which is why it is especially cruel to consider cutting classes responsible for bringing people together. 
“I can take a picture, a screenshot, of the students that have been enrolled in a Latin 
dance classes, and we have every color imaginable enrolled in those classes working as a team, ” Latin dance professor Tony Caligagan said. “The classes are designed for social interaction, integration, and for appreciation of other cultures ... To take something that is actually diversity in action — they’re eliminating it completely — is really short sighted. ”
By making the decision, however long it lasted, to cut these multicultural forms 
of dance, UCSD contradicted its mission as a public university to promote diversity and appreciation of other cultures. The traditionally European dance forms of ballet and contemporary have hardly been affected by these cuts and they continue to remain integral components of the UCSD dance program, whereas the multicultural dance forms were nearly rendered obsolete. It’s worth noting that UCSD emphasizes diversity to the point that it requires all undergraduate students to take a course in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for graduation, yet fails to see the value in the very dance classes that meet this requirement. 
“[Students] are being told one thing about inclusion, ” Tony Caligagan elaborated, 
“but then the behavior and action of the department that represents this university is acting in contradiction to the philosophy in inclusion by actually creating exclusion. ” 
Student commitment to inclusion was clearly demonstrated in a survey conducted 
by the undergraduate dance representatives in January of this year. 379 out of the 412 dance students surveyed voiced their overwhelming support of multiculturalism and made it clear that this shift away from a multicultural dance curriculum towards an inexcusably ethnocentric one would not be tolerated. 
The quiet reinstatement of the cancelled classes the day before the undergraduate review of the Theatre and Dance Department is no coincidence. The review, which occurs every five years, invites professors from other California universities to listen to student and faculty concerns, evaluate the program, and provide suggestions for improvement based on their overall assessment. It is highly likely that the department suddenly brought back the classes in hopes of receiving a slightly more favorable review.
The undergraduate review was organized as an open forum for students to 
voice their concerns to the reviewers. Some of the topics discussed included: lack of departmental transparency and communication, departmental refusal to accept 
transfer credit, harmful implications of the dance cuts, and the inability to access 
rehearsal spaces. In terms of the major and classes, they also discussed prioritization of graduate students over undergraduate students, increasingly large class sizes, no reserved spots for dance majors or minors, desire for movement classes over less-practical theory classes, and frustration over rigid major requirements that favor contemporary dance over every other type.
Despite the inconvenient 1:30 p.m. meeting time, many students skipped their 
classes to participate. The impressive 30-student turnout dominated the small conference room allotted for the meeting, surprising the reviewers who weren’t anticipating so many students or the incredible passion they put into fighting for a well-rounded education. 
“ As someone who is part of both sides [theater and dance] of the department and 
in many groups on-campus, ” undergraduate dance representative and junior Theatre and Dance double major Astrid Espitia said, “it was so empowering and it gave me so much hope to see all these students show up and stand together … The energy alone in that room was so uplifting and thriving, for the first time in a long time we were all truly dance and theatre students together, united. ”
However, the review did not address all concerns and there is still much to be done. 
The fact that the department even decided so suddenly to make cuts is inexcusable, and the relationship between the students and the departmental figures in positions of power remains broken. That being said, this review marked an important next step in galvanizing further student resistance against negative departmental actions. 
“Not everyone got to speak their minds or their truths, ” Espitia elaborated. “We 
still have a long way to go. We are planning future meetings and organizing ourselves to create a coalition with the goal of having the department actually listen to us. Sure, we might not get anything out of the board review, but because of that catalyst — that moment — the Theatre and Dance students will never be the same. It has sparked something within us all and we are all going to push forward to be the change in our education on this campus. ”
Some say they were built for faculty 
members to escape from rioters pro-testing the Vietnam War; some say 
they’re meant to shelter people from nuclear attacks. Others aren’t even sure of their 
existence. UCSD’s underground tunnels do, 
in fact, exist, but these speculations are far from their real purpose. 
Forming a continuous loop through 
campus, the tunnels run from Roger Revelle College up to Thurgood Marshall College, then around Geisel Library and down Library Walk to the School of Medicine. They act as service tunnels, distributing 
utilities throughout campus.
“The underground tunnels provide a 
distribution path for campus utilities such 
as natural gas, telecom, compressed air, deionized water, high temperature hot water and our chilled water systems, ” explained Stephen Jackson, Director of Facilities Management at UCSD.
While the rather unremarkable function 
of the underground tunnels may be disap-pointing to some, they are still an essential part of our campus’ history and infrastruc-ture. Parts of the tunnel system date back to the 1960s, when construction of UCSD’s campus began.
Jackson noted, “Original construction of 
the tunnels occurred in the early 1960s when the Central Utility Plant and Urey Hall were 
built. They were then extended in the late 
1960s and early 1970s with the expansion of the School of Medicine and the John Muir College campus. ”
The underground tunnel technology 
allows for a more efficient way to distribute utilities, and even earned UCSD the Energy Star CHP Award in 2010 for cutting back on fuel and emissions. Jackson explained 
that systems for carrying utilities can be 
either centralized, like our tunnel system, or decentralized, in which buildings have individual utility systems.
“The tunnels are used because they pro-
vide both the conduit for the utility infra-structure as well as the access for our utili-ties technicians to provide maintenance and repair support, ” he said.Similar infrastructures are common 
in other college campuses, where utilities must be delivered to multiple buildings. Like UCSD, these colleges’ tunnels have inspired myths of their own. The University 
of Wisconsin’s tunnel system, for example, is 
notorious for a man students have dubbed Tunnel Bob, who roams the tunnels and has even invited students to play hide-and-seek with him underground. 
Despite serving a thoroughly practical 
function, the underground tunnel system still piques the curiosity of adventurous students. And it’s no wonder why they do 
— they’re dark, creepy, and have taken on a 
somewhat mythical status. Y et students who sneak into the tunnels for some thrills and chills risk injury and even death. 
“The tunnels contain piping with high 
temperature hot water, natural gas, and electricity — all of which could be poten-tially dangerous if there was a leak, ” warned Jackson. 
For this reason, entry into the tunnels is 
strictly prohibited to the public. And even if students can manage to creep through the tunnels unharmed, there’s still the pos-sibility they will be caught and punished for trespassing.
“ All tunnel entrances have alarms, which 
are monitored by the UCSD Police, ” Jackson stated. “If an alarm is triggered then the 
police department dispatches an officer to 
investigate. ”
The tunnel system’s inaccessibility to stu-
dents has inspired urban legends about what exactly is down there besides piping. One rumor states that there are walls of the tun-nel depicting Vietnam War-era graffiti of Richard Nixon. Another interesting theory is that the tunnels are where the university 
stores old magnetic tapes and lab equipment.
Still, the tunnels could hold secrets wait-
ing to be discovered. Could UCSD have its 
very own Tunnel Bob? Are the underground tunnels the meeting place for some secret society? If you’re willing to risk deadly pipe bursts and misconduct charges, there’s only one way to find out.
’sA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Guardian:  When you wake up 
in the morning, what is the first thing 
you do?
Nancy Binkin:  Well, after [my] 
cat has licked my face, I go down to feed the cat, and read the New Y ork Times, Wall Street Journal and Washington Post to see what has 
happened overnight.
G: Anything good come up lately? 
Not too much, I’m assuming...
NB:  I just try my best to keep up 
with what’s going on in the world. 
And then I have breakfast and go over to the Y oung Men’s Christian Association. I go four times a week, 
and just the other day I went on a 
walk with one of my old medical school colleagues.
G: Living out public health, Dr. 
Binkin. Okay, this question is more for me than for the UCSD Guardian it seems, but I know you lived in Italy for some time, so I’m curious; in San 
Diego, do you feel like the coffee is 
sub-par?NB:  Mmm, there’s no coffee like 
the ones in Italy. 
G: That’s what I thought!
NB:  But you can get a good cup 
here and there.
G: Do you have a favorite place?
NB:  Uh, my house? I buy my own 
coffee from Italy and make it in my espresso maker and froth the milk in my own frother. What I find is that here, the coffee is much stronger than 
in Italy, and people don’t know how to 
correctly froth the milk. They make it more like whipped egg whites than a wonderful creamy thing that sits on top of a good Italian cappuccino.
G: That’s interesting! I’ll keep an 
eye out for that on my next coffee run. Any favorite places in San Diego, coffee or otherwise, you would recommend?
NB:  The downtown San Diego 
Safari Zoo; I work as a volunteer down there every Sunday. I work the African Rocks and Urban Jungle exhibit, and have taken some courses to get knowledge on baboons, and now giraffes and cheetahs.
G: Do you feel that it’s comparable, 
working with us here at UC San Diego and then the zoo?
NB:  Ahh well it’s interesting in 
it’s own way. It’s nice to get people excited about new things.
G: You do get to carry that 
mentality in both places, that’s for sure. Last question, do you have any non-academic advice for UCSD students?
NB:  Mmm, I’ d say just make a life 
outside of school for yourself. Make friends with people of many different ages. It seems like everyone here takes themselves so seriously, but learn to 
be defined as a friend to others. Find 
your passions, and keep learning all your life especially as the joy of learning can get lost here. And with the intergenerational friendships, you get a depth of experiences and perspectives; it adds life to you, keeps you young. 
I still clearly remember the first 
day of WCWP 100 — everyone was awkwardly staring at each other waiting for Professor Keith McCleary to begin the generic syllabus talk. Within the first 15 minutes of class, he broke the ice by making my class yell “Keith!” three times so we could properly address him. Of all the professors and teaching assistants I 
have had at UC San Diego, I have yet to 
meet one as relatable and witty as him. If 
you ever take one of his classes, here are 
a few things you may not know about 
Keith and his journey to UCSD.
Guardian:  Where is your 
hometown?
Keith McCleary:  L i v o n i a ,  N e w  
York. It’s an incredibly small town where there are no sidewalks, and there’s just cornfields behind my house. The slogan for the town is “More cows than people” 
— that’s real. I like visiting my parents, 
but I would never move back there. G: How were your undergraduate 
years?
KM:  I went to New York University 
for film production. I wanted to make movies, but later learned how hard it is to pursue it in the real world when you don’t have any money. Then, I shifted to 
do graphic design so I would get paid, 
and that led me into making comics in my mid-20s.
G: Why did you start teaching?
KM:  I had this mindset where I 
thought people who were really good in the creative industry would become successful immediately, and even though I thought I was good, my life was not 
where I wanted it to be. I had also just 
turned 30, ended a relationship with my then-girlfriend, and was living in New York City by myself with no immediate jobs available, so I had to move back to Livonia. As I was going through that downtime, a friend of mine who had friends who worked for DC Comics in 
La Jolla told me to move to San Diego. 
I moved out here with no concrete plan in mind, and the one mildly responsible thing I thought I could do was apply for graduate school to write a novel. I began my MFA program here in UCSD and soon became a TA. 
I didn’t enjoy teaching when I first 
started, but then I realized I hated my undergrad years because the teachers I had were usually awful, and I didn’t want my students to go through the 
same thing. I decided I would rather be a 
better version of the teachers that I had, so I began investing in teaching.
G: What is one piece of non-academic 
advice you would give to your students?
KM:  College puts undergrads under 
so much pressure, like it’s the end of the world if you don’t have your life sorted out right now. Your 20s may be horrible, but it’s fine. You will survive.The invisible wall between behind and in front of a professor’s podium may be intimidating, but professors 
are people, too, and there is more value in getting to know professors than simply finding someone to write 
a letter of recommendation. Their insights in life, both academic and professional, are valuable because our 
favorite professors are likely to be the people we aspire to be in the future. They have their own life stories and perspectives that offer a different type of lesson to learn, but as students, we will never hear them if we do not 
bother to ask. So next time you see your professor walking past you on your way to Geisel, say hello. Go to their 
office hours and strike up a conversation; it doesn’t even have to be about the class. They were once just like us, 
stumbling along and trying to find their path in life while simultaneously growing into the people they are today.
I’ve had the pleasure of becoming good friends with Pedro 
Scotto, assistant dean of Student Affairs. He is one of the first 
people I’ve come across during my first quarter here at UC San Diego who has already made a major impact on my college experience. Although this interview shines a dim light on Scotto’s benevolent personality, I highly recommend that all students spark at least one conversation with him to gain some 
wisdom and valuable insight on how to best prepare for life 
after college.
Guardian:  Why did you decide to do the work that you 
are currently doing?
Pedro Scotto:  I  l i k e  t o  s e e  m y s e l f  a s  a  h e l p e r .  I ’ m  v e r y  
altruistic with how I look at things. I enjoy working with young people who are so close to being in the real world because you guys are the next generation of whatever you do. I want students at some point in their lives to be like, ‘I met 
this guy Pedro, and this is a life lesson that he told me. ’ When 
I was in college, I had met some awesome administrators and that steered me to working in this field. So I tried to emulate others who are great examples to make a similar impact. Also, interacting with students has been amazing. I’ll meet students as freshmen who say they want to become doctors and later see them as a surgeons, like that’s powerful to be a part of their journey.
G: If you could go back in time, what would you tell your 
freshman self?
PS: “Learn more about computing systems and computers. ” Even though I enjoy doing the job I’m currently doing, I’ d probably tell myself to take more classes with writing and computer programs. I have friends who do other things like 
create apps, which brings them in some residual income. So 
taking those classes would probably allow me to do more things and explore different side hobbies. Hobbies which would allow me to buy another car since I’m a big gearhead. Maybe I’ d buy an antique, like 1974 and 2002 BMW models or things like that.
G: What valuable resource does UCSD offer that very few 
students know about?
PS: I would say, many students don’t utilize the staff at each 
college, such as deans and assistant deans. They believe they can only see the professional staff when they’re in trouble, but that’s not the case. We have an open-door policy: Students can just walk in whenever they have questions, need  support, or 
[want]to find out more about what exactly we’ve done in our 
lives. We aren’t targeted to [do] just one thing; if you come in contact with anyone in Student Affairs or academic advising staff you can expect a casual conversation. We’re not just here for when students get in trouble.
G: They say everyone has a book in them. What would your 
book be about?
PS: My book would be about laughter as therapy. Just to 
laugh, not at people, but at situations. Even when things are going unplanned or poorly, finding laughter in [them] will make you less stressed and an overall happier person.By Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle Editor
By Rebecca Tsang // Contributing 
Lifestyle Writer
By Fred Grier // Lifestyle Sta ff WriterDr. Nancy Binkin, Dept. of Family Medicine and Public Health
Prof. Keith McCleary, Warren College Writing Program
Pedro Scotto, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs
fac u lty 
spotlightLIFESTYLE             THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
77H(-$0(6.%,1'(5/(&785(LQ/LWHUDWXUH3UHVHQWV
%$5%$5$0,77/(5
Feeling Matters: Gender Interactions and the Making of Cultural 
Memory in China's Vernacular Media, 1900s-2000s
How do beauties touch their men and when and where does this become visible? Put differently: How 
does feeling matter and what shapes does it take both textually and visually? Does it make a difference 
whether the depicted is a film star or a commoner, a revolutionary or a bourgeois? And how are these 
depictions read by contemporary audiences? Does it matter what these audiences remember to have 
seen, touched, experienced somewhere before? Surveying women’s magazines and other entertainment media published throughout China’s long 20th century, this lecture discusses the politics of feeling. It 
will show how form, material and color take on ever-changing meanings and continually reshape the 
ways in which beauty and intimacy can be played out visually and textually and thus experienced and 
touched by the audiences reading these publications. The lecture will thus trace textual and visual evidence for dominant and prescribed as well as subdued and subversive modes of seeing, touching and 
feeling and reflect on the importance of intertextual and intervisual memory-making in this process.  
7hurVGD\$SrLO 
SP
7KH$WNLQVRQ3DYLOLRQDWWKH
)DFXOW\&OXE8&6DQ'LHJR 
$UHFHSWLRQZLOOIROORZWKHOHFWXUH 
)UHHDQGRSHQWRWKHSXEOLF
7KH-DPHV.%LQGHU/HFWXUHVKLSLQ/LWHUDWXUHLVPDGHSRVVLEOHE\0U%LQGHU·VJHQHURXVEHTXHVW  
DQGKRQRUVKLVZLVKHVWKDWZHEULQJOHDGLQJ(XURSHDQLQWHOOHFWXDOVWR8&6DQ'LHJRWRSURYLGHD 
IRUXPIRUULJRURXVGLVFXVVLRQVRIOLWHUDU\WRSLFV 
Contact Derrick Chin for reasonable accommodations to enable your access and participation ²    
derrickchin#ucsd.edu 
%arbara 0ittler holds a Chair in Chinese Studies at the 8niversity of 
Heidelberg and is Director of the Heidelberg Centre for Transcultural Studies former ´Cluster of (xcellence Asia and (urope in a *lobal Contextµ. She began her studies at the 8niversity of 2xford 0A 2xon 0, and has spent research periods in Taiwan, the People’s 5epublic of China, Hong .ong and at Harvard and Stanford 8niversities. Her PhD  and her habilitation  are from Heidelberg. Her research focuses on cultural production in greater China covering a range of topics from music to visual and historical print media in China
s long modernity. In 20, her book-length study of the Chinese Cultural 5evolution won the )airbank Prize by the American Historical Association. Guardian:  What is your favorite 
‘80s or ‘90s trend?
Sarah Nicolazzo:  Oh my 
God! I actually think that some of 
my favorite ‘90s trends have come 
back, which is jarring and funny. 
Maybe it is back, but maybe like zine making, you know. Just the idea of it, that you could just say “Oh, 
here’s a photocopier; I’m [going to] 
publish my thoughts. I’m going to make a book. ” I thought there was something really wonderful about that. And maybe, like, the whole 
“riot grrrl” ethos, but maybe that 
never actually went away.
G: If you could go back in time, 
what would you tell yourself in your freshman year of college?
SN: I would say a few things: I 
would’ve told myself: Don’t worry! You will make friends! And I’ d also 
say don’t freak out too much over 
each assignment being perfect. It’s okay if you don’t know how to do something. It’s okay if something 
turns out not-ideal the first time 
around. That’s okay, it’s fine. You can turn in something that is just good enough. 
G: If you could switch places with 
one person in the past or present, who would it be and why?
SN: So many options … I would 
switch places with either Anne Bonny or Mary Read, who were 
these 17th-century pirates. They 
had really interesting lives and they Guardian:  What is the funniest mistake you’ve ever made?
Dr. Jarryd Willis:  I think it was back when I was at 
University of Texas at Austin to get my Ph.D. and I was trying to get to know someone. I was in an office talking with him, and I 
asked him because I looked at the picture on his desk “is that you 
and your boyfriend there?” and he said, “No, that’s me and my dad. ” He actually had a girlfriend.
G: If you could go back in time, what would you tell yourself in 
your freshman year of college?
JW: I don’t think I’ d want to say anything because of where I 
am right now. I feel like maybe if one thing went differently, that might have been positive my freshman year. Perhaps I wouldn’t 
have made some of the choices over time that brought me here 
to California with a Ph.D., where I am now: to graduate when I was 27 years old and move here and start my life professionally, so I probably wouldn’t say anything. I think usually, when you 
have that question of going back in time, it’s because your current 
situation is one where there is some dissatisfaction. In my case, I feel pretty good about how things ended up. It wasn’t always great, but I just kind of have the butterfly effect idea in my mind, you know, Ashton Kutcher or whatever, that if you change one thing at this time point, then a whole host of things [experience the] domino effect and just change completely. If one more thing had gone right back then, I might not be here today. Alright so, let’s say if whenever Jessica and I first met freshman year, October 14th, 
9 p.m., there at the gym together, like our first date, so to speak. 
Maybe if that had actually worked out the first time, I wouldn’t 
have felt as much motivation to do better throughout college in 
the first place. Part of the reason I excelled was because she was 
like my rival, the person I was competing against. So we would try dating, then things would go horribly, and then [there] would be this period of animosity, then we’ d date again, then we’ d fall apart again. With her as a person I was kind of competing against when 
things were going bad, I felt more inspiration, I felt more push, 
more motivation to do better. She was always smarter than me. She always had better grades. I aspired to be like her, essentially, so having someone who was better than me who I could look up 
to as a model that I wanted to be like and to aspire to be — that 
pushed me forward. And that was the case whether we were dating or whenever things were bad, whether it was on or off; it was the same thing. So, I feel like maybe if that had not gone perfectly, 100 percent the first time, and it was smooth sailing, and we got married after graduation, and everything was perfect, I might not be here today. I might still be in San Antonio, Texas.
G: What is one piece of non-academic advice that you would 
give to your students?
JW: Don’t be afraid to fail and try something new. Be more 
afraid of not trying at all. Y ou can always learn something if you attempt to achieve something and fail at that task. If it is something 
you care about doing, then even failure helps you learn more about 
yourself, how you can get better, and hopefully succeed the next time you try. The second thing is staying true to whatever your 
particular values might be and trying to be less influenced by other 
people. As someone who was raised in the church, dating someone who is atheist, which isn’t always the most socially polite to some, but in terms of me socially, I don’t care about someone’s religious 
background. I don’t care if the person is Muslim, Buddhist, Hindu, 
atheist, or whatever. If I like that person, then that’s it. I’m not going to let peer groups, friends, or family influence that relationship. And I’ll still keep my friends and family; they’re not going to desert me or something. So have the moral courage to stand on your 
convictions, what you care about, and not be as influenced by peer 
pressure for things that are important to you in your life.
Guardian:  If you need caffeine, what are 
you drinking?
Goran Bozinovic:  I drink beer and wine 
… and in that order too! I’m from a country where wine is part of the culture, so we start 
early.
G: Speaking of getting up early, how do you 
start your day?
GB:  I like to get up early when nobody is up, 
which is kind of the nicest part of it. But I have 
a big dog so I usually sneak out with her. She’s 
not very friendly, so I have to find places where 
there are not a lot of people. Then I usually eat the same thing every day: cashew cream and gluten free cereal, because I have Celiac disease, with some tea. And then my kids wake up.
G: How do you spend your summer?
GB:  I take my kids to Croatia. My 
grandfather has a summer home along the Adriatic Coast of the Mediterranean, so I take 
them and let them loose.
G: What is the key to passing your class?
GB:  Y ou have to be willing to be 
uncomfortable. Y ou don’t have to be perfect, but 
if you are doing your best and okay with being 
uncomfortable, I think you’re going to go a long 
way. I think that sets you up for later in life, and not just my class.
G: What’s the craziest story that’s happened 
to you at UC San Diego or while teaching?GB:  I just made a student cry today in 
class, but I don’t know if that’s the craziest thing or not … but it was a good cry. I just 
put her on the spot! There’s this thing that I 
like to do, I didn’t do it to your class because there aren’t a lot of you, but in my past genetics classes, I like to start [the quarter] by teaching 
a different course. So if you have 350 students, 
I start teaching econ class, thank everyone for changing the rooms, and talk about an email notice about a swap. I go through a few slides since they might not buy my bluff. Then, they 
get up and awkwardly try to leave, but then I 
just tell them it’s actually the right class. So that’s a fun thing to do to 350 people.
By Colleen Conradi // Lifestyle Sta ff WriterBy Natasha Vandamme // Lifestyle Sta ff Writer
By Natalie Duprey // 
Contributing Lifestyle Writer
Professor Sarah 
Nicolazzo, Dept. of Literature Dr. Jarryd Willis, Dept. of Psychology
Prof. Goran Bozinovic, Dept. of Biological Sciences
became sort of notorious. I would be 
very curious to know what it was like to be a pirate in the 17th century.
G: W h a t  i s  o n e  p i e c e  o f  n o n -
academic advice you recommend to your students?
SN:  I would recommend to 
find something in your life that is not school or work to develop 
and attach yourself to. Always have 
something else that’s not school or work because you never want your schoolwork or your job to turn into 
the only thing that gives you a sense 
of self. It’s so important,especially [because] I’m in a job that can take over people’s lives and can be really demanding. It’s really important for 
me to have hobbies, do other stuff, 
and be different versions of myself. So yeah, it is not frivolous to have a hobby or passion or a thing you do 
that isn’t your job. Do that. Always 
do that. 10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
UC San Diego’s theatre and dance department returns to the classics with a rousing adaptation of William Shakespeare’s “Othello. ”The Aces and morgxn brought short but sweet performances, featuring old favorites and unreleased songs, to our very own Lo ft.
Director Dylan Key notes in his director’s 
statement that William Shakespeare’s “Othello” is “an expression of a 
particular man’s point of view in a particular time, […] brimming with questions and images which feel potently alive in the world today. ” I am inclined to agree with this interpretation of one of 
the famed playwright’s more prickly pieces. Key 
keeps the essence of Shakespeare’s dialogue while paring down the set and attire, a nod toward modernist minimalism. It may be a cost-cutting measure, but the displacement works; “Othello” 
is just as affecting when reframed as a hipster 
party set, with both the heroes and villains clad in leather and chucks. 
The story is much the same. The triumphant 
general Othello (DeLeon Dallas, playing 
magnanimous and mercurial all at once) is a 
happy man, wed to the lovely Desdemona (Claire Roberson). Dallas and Roberson effectively communicate the connubial bliss of a doomed couple. Since it’s Shakespeare, their joy is short-lived; Othello’s ensign, Iago (Kyle Hester), 
schemes to overturn his commander’s successes. 
Iago is a man that uses others, taking advantage of Desdemona’s hapless admirer Rodrigo (Max Singer) and her bigot father Brabantio (Brandon 
O’Sullivan), among others, and stringing them 
along to his own ends. 
Like Shakespeare at the original Old Globe, 
Key works with a bare stage, empty of decorations save for a rickety second floor and occasional 
set piece (a table, chairs). He relies primarily on 
the energy and resolve of his actors, and to great effect. The cast is universally good — Hester is a particular standout, his Iago a self-aggrandizing murderer whose aims are as unknown to him 
as they are to us. He leers and simpers when 
appropriate, and pours poison into the ears of anyone who pauses to listen. Key takes some liberties with the dressing: 
scenes are punctuated by moody, electronic sound clips, and the lighting from above drenches 
the cast in plaintive red and blue hues. In this way, 
the Theodore and Adele Shank Theater becomes a massive mood-board for its performers, a clever use of the space. In one sequence, the actors hang 
a set of lightbulbs across the stage to illuminate 
a dance party. The adaptation does occasionally falter; those same sound effects often bleed into or overshadow soliloquies and dialogue. During one party scene, the music blares out of the 
speakers, almost painfully loud. Nonetheless, 
aside from a few hiccups, the play rolls smoothly along. No actors flubbed their lines, and only a few stuttered. 
This adaptation delves into the alienation 
and barely-concealed bigotry Othello experiences during his time amongst the Venetians. Key does not shy away from including the jeering language of Shakespeare’s original; Roderigo mockingly calls him “the thicklips, ” and even the casting echoes Othello’s isolation, with DeLeon Dallas 
the only black performer onstage. Although “the 
moor” is an ambiguous character in both his ethnicity and race, he is maligned by Venetian society for his cultural otherness. “Othello” is, 
in many ways, a story concerned with how the 
ill-intentioned exploit social outsiders. Dallas’ performance stresses Othello’s exclusion and the anxiety that position brings on. 
Key’s adaptation encompasses both the 
humor and the sorrow of Shakespeare’s “Othello. ” Light enough to provoke laughter, but ultimately ending in despair. 
 
 
—  Alicia  lepler
Senior Staff WriterLast Wednesday night, The Loft transformed itself from a calm cafe into a dark room pumping with indie pop music. With a 
modest turn-out, the performances were intimate and allowed the singers and the audience to get up close and personal. Despite their respective titles of opening act and headliner, the performances 
of both morgxn and The Aces felt like they were 
on the same level and received equal playing time and attention.
Touting rose-tinted glasses and a lively 
persona, morgxn delivered a soulful performance 
that felt less like another forgettable opening act 
and more like a dazzling headliner. An alternative R&B artist hailing from Nashville, morgxn presented tracks from his upcoming first album, 
“Vital. ” In between songs, he earnestly expressed 
how each and every audience member was “vital, ” a motivational sentiment that was met with cheers from the crowd. He encouraged everyone to write what they felt was vital to themselves in 
a notebook at the back of the room, which he 
would collect at the end of the night.
The crowd had the chance to get a sneak-peek 
at the sultry, pop-rock song “translucent, ” one of 
the album’s songs released as a single the Friday 
after the concert. A number of people were not familiar with morgxn, much less his new song, so the song received a generally tepid response. morgxn didn’t seem to mind — he was happily head-banging and strutting around onstage. Eventually, his performative style energized the crowd until they were nodding their heads and 
stamping their feet. In his next song “me without 
you, ” also from the album “Vital, ” his keyboardist and drummer left the stage so that he could play a heartfelt keyboard solo. The slow-paced song 
suited his strong vocals and garnered hoots from 
the crowd whenever he belted out a high note.
The act finally found its groove when he 
transitioned into his better-known singles. During the earworm that is “xx, ” morgxn split 
the crowd down the middle and had one side 
sing “don’t” and the other sing “let me down. ” Leading up to his next song, “bruised, ” he told the concertgoers that they were beautiful and should 
never change themselves for others, and halfway 
through the serenade he leapt offstage and sang in the audience. Finally, the much-anticipated “home” had the whole room singing and clapping along to the catchy, bass-boosted beats.
When it was The Aces’ turn to take the stage, 
a larger crowd had formed, and the sight of the four young women led to a frenzy of cheers. Decked in jean jackets, Doc Martins, and casual 
tees, the all-female band from Utah exuded a 
laid-back yet playful vibe, reminiscent of HAIM. With minimal introduction, they kicked off with songs from their EP , “I Don’t Like Being Honest, ” including pop rock track “Touch” and the sensual “Physical. ” Vocalist Cristal Ramirez weaved around the stage, coolly winking and dancing along to the band’s tunes, supported by backup 
vocals, guitar, bass, and drums.
Ramirez admitted that it was The Aces’ 
first time in San Diego, and after the crowd’s 
enthusiasm, she exclaimed, “Why haven’t we been 
here before?” The girls expressed their love for the 
San Diego weather, comparing it to the the East Coast climate that they claimed made them look like “vampires. ”
A tremendous cheer rose from the crowd 
when “Volcanic Love” began to play. Phones were drawn, Snapchat was opened, and numerous voices sang along to the impassioned love lyrics. Afterwards, Ramirez explained that the band’s 
visit to The Loft with morgxn was a sidestop on 
its main tour with COIN. Like morgxn, The Aces advertised their upcoming debut album, called “When My Heart Felt Volcanic, ” which will be released on April 6.
They opened with “Lovin’ is Bible, ” a sun-
soaked single that croons of a picturesque, simple romance. It fit right at home with the band’s “girl next door” aesthetic. Bathed in blue and purple 
lighting, the band performed other songs from 
the album, including “Last One“ and “Fake Nice. ”
The band ended on a high note with its 
well-known song, “Stuck. ” As if on command, the audience was jumping together, their hands reaching out to the band members onstage. Voices rose whenever the chorus hit, and with music and energy coursing through everyone’s 
veins, the night came to a close.
The setlist was unfortunately short, but 
offered a tantalizing taste of what the groups 
have to offer. Regardless, fans left the concert as 
if they had experienced something much larger 
and impactful. Both of the acts lingered around after their performances, kindly allowing people to chat, grab autographs, and snap selfies with them. Even with speakers blasting the music a 
little too loudly throughout the concert and the 
bass sometimes overpowering their vocals, both artists sounded better live, adding vocal nuances to the songs that felt more polished in their 
official formats. Besides the performers’ music, 
their enthralling performances and genuine engagement with the audience were the true highlights of the show.
One can only imagine what they could do 
with a bigger venue and crowd. And perhaps that hope will one day become reality. Nevertheless, as morgxn said, “UCSD really knows how to make a boy feel welcome. ”
  
—  natalie  tran
Staff Writer
PLAY   REVIEWCONCERT   REVIEW
Director   Dylan Key
Writer   William Shakespeare
Starring  DeLeon Dallas, Kyle Hester, Claire Roberson, Allyn Anthony Moriyon
Runs   Feb. 21 – March 3
Location   Theodore and Adele Shank Theatre
Location  The Loft
Concert Date   March 7, 2018
othelloThe Aces & morgxn at The Loft 
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD THEATRE AND DANCEPHOTO COURTESY OF THE ACES
CA-CbA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Monday
Mar. 19th
10pmThe Aces brought girl-power in spades to UC San Diego.
Guardian:  Go ahead ahead and introduce 
yourselves, maybe with one fun fact each. I 
understand that you guys formed back in middle 
school. How has Provo, Utah influenced the band 
and its music?
Cristal:  Y eah, elementary school, when we were 
little kids — fifth grade, around eight and 10 —
single digits. 
Alisa:  We’re all organic, non-GMO, United States 
Department of Agriculture approved! 
Cristal:  It’s very interesting because we always talk 
about this. We’re all from the same hometown, so any time people say, “Oh, where are you guys from?” we respond, “Oh, not just us as a band, but [we] as people are from Utah. ” As we’ve met other 
bands, all the members are from different cities 
because they meet each other through college or they meet each other as they get [into] their 20s. I’ve never realized it’s actually quite unique that we’re all from the same city because we’ve grown 
up together and have been in the band so long. I 
don’t think we’ve met another band that grew up together like we did. 
G: Could you tell me a little bit more about how 
you guys got together? 
C: So Alisa and I being sisters, we had an older 
brother that was in a lot of punk and metal bands 
— he’s a great guitar player, and we were always 
looking at him thinking, “oh, we want to be in a band too. ” We always talk about how we don’t totally know where it came from. 
A: We think it also came from our mom and 
dad — they’re very musical, not in the sense that they play instruments, but they’re always singing. 
They’re both really good singers and they’re 
always playing music — our house was always just filled with jams. 
C: Y eah, so we started when we were little kids. 
Alisa asked for a drum set from my mom, and her best friend had this drum set that her son didn’t 
play so she just gave it to us. She started playing, 
then I started stealing my brother’s guitars and tried to teach myself how to write music. We started just jamming together as little kids naturally — we just did it because we wanted to. We’ve known McKenna since kindergarten; her 
mom was a first grade teacher at our elementary 
school. So we knew each other since we were super young, but we didn’t get close until we were 
in fifth grade  probably 10 or 11. 
McKenna:  We were just hanging out a ton, and 
I remember that you guys just wanted to start a 
band.
C: We were just literally best friends; we were 
spending all of our time together. I remember we were on our home phones — which seems like 
an ancient memory at this point — calling each 
other and chatting on the phone. I said, Ken, if anyone is going to be in our band, it has got to be the homies, so you have to learn how to play 
bass! Then she was like, “what’s a bass?” Then 
we started just teaching each other music. So it was us three, and we started off calling ourselves “The Blue Aces. ” We played together for three or four years then Ken and Katie met each other in 
middle school.
Katie:  I grew up playing the guitar, and my 
brothers were also in bands. I was kind of in a 
familiar situation where I was forcing people to 
play with me because I wanted to be in a band so 
bad. So I would force my friends to play, and we would make bands and stuff. I met Kenna, and my friend group and her friend group — which 
was these guys — merged together and we were 
hanging out all the time and got really close. I had heard about their band, and thought, “that’s really cool!” One day they all came over to my house, and I asked “do you guys want to come 
see my rehearsal space downstairs that me and 
my brothers had built up?” Then they responded, “What? Y ou play guitar?” I was just stoked to meet people who actually cared. Because I had 
cared about it, but none of my friends ever cared 
about it. When I finally met people who actually cared about playing music, I thought, “W ait! This is awesome. ”
C: I think it was also a cherry on top that she was 
a girl. We thought, “That’s awesome that we’ll get to keep it all girls!” because we felt like we had this 
cool thing going, and it just kind of worked out. 
We were The Blue Aces until about three years ago, when we were 18 or 19, then dropped the “Blue. ” We’ve been a band now for about a decade. 
G: As your following grows, how do you hope to 
use your influence to change or promote certain aspects or ideas? Whether it be in the industry 
or in life, how do you hope to use your influence 
among people?
K: I think overall we like using our platform 
for overall positivity and empowerment. I feel like there are a lot of artists, especially in this 
generation, where there’s a lot of negativity, and I 
think it’s cool in a sense to be authentic and raw with hard things, but I think it’s important to also be really positive, and to remind people of —
C: Good vibes, you know? That sounds so cliche 
and silly, but nothing is really the end of the world. Female empowerment is a huge one for us. We still 
get all the time, “Oh my gosh, you’re an all-female 
band; we never see all-female bands, especially in the alternative world. ” We’re surrounded by men constantly, and we definitely get silly comments 
sometimes such as, “I can’t believe it, you’re a 
girl and you can play?” I get that they’re trying to compliment us, but that’s not a compliment. I think it’s more that we try to live by example, by being on stages, by touring, by fully turning this into a career, and showcasing our friendship and what we do, and try to empower other girls to want to get on stages, to want to play drums, 
guitar, bass, sing, whatever it is. 
M: Y ou can just be in the music industry. We’ve 
had so many girls [who] want to be tour managers 
or working photography — male-dominated 
things. I love it because it can be anything; we 
want to inspire people to do anything that might be scary or hard. I remember once a girl saying, “I’ve been having such a rut in college and not 
feeling like I know what to do, but I felt so good 
after your guys’ concert — you inspired me. ” I think that’s cool being an overall help to anyone, to just feel empowered to do whatever they want to do.
K: Female empowerment is so important to us, 
and it’s also really important to us that people know that we’re just four people playing music. 
Going into a soundcheck or a show, when we 
work with guys who maybe sometimes question whether we know what we’re doing, we always leave having changed their mind, and hopefully 
they see other women after that as equals, and 
that it doesn’t matter if you’re a male or female. We’re all just musicians — we’re all playing and that’s how it should be; it shouldn’t matter. 
This interview has been edited and condensed for 
clarity.
 
—  Helen  nguyen
Contributing WriterThe  Aces  Q&A
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE ACES12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
12
02
10
05
03
07
13
06
04
11
09
01
08
06 • KSDT
Student-run, campus radio station.
Original Student Center • ksdt.ucsd.edu12 • Triton TV
Student-run, campus television station.
Original Student Center • ttv.ucsd.edu09 • SSC
Student  Sustainability Collective 
leaders promote sustainable practices, educating students, and fostering a culture of responsibility on campus.
PC West 1st Fl         sscucsd05 • AS Graphic Studio
A one-stop shop for all your graphic design needs.
PC East 3rd Fl • asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu11 • Triton Outﬁtters
Unique and affordable merchandiseand apparel; customized designs for
student orgs and departments.
PC Plaza or Library Walk • to.ucsd.edu08 • SPACES
Events, programs, and services to 
promote academic continuation at all 
levels of education. 
PC West 2nd Fl •  spaces.ucsd.edu02 • AS Safe Rides
2 free Lyft rides per student
per quarter.
as.ucsd.edu/saferides04 • ASCE
Your source for on-campus 
concerts, shows, music, and 
entertainment.
PC East 4th Fl • asce.ucsd.edu10 • Triton Food Pantry
Student-run service for students 
in need of food.
basicneeds.ucsd.edu/triton-food-pantry
     tritonfoodpantry 07 • SOVAC
A non-partisan committee dedicated to 
educating the student voter, increasing 
voter turnout, and facilitating
voter engagement.
sovac.ucsd.edu01 • AS Council & Senate
Improved communication and 
engagement on central community politics and issues.
as.ucsd.edu13 • Women’s Commission
A group of student advocates for a 
gender-equitable campus, with 
resources for womxn feeling mentally, 
physically, or emotionally oppressed.
     womenscommissionucsd
as.ucsd.edu03 • ACCB & ACTA
All Campus Commuter Board and All 
Campus Transfer Association events, programs, opportunities, and resources to enhance the transfer and commuter student experience.
     
UCSDACCB        UCSDACTA  
ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
ROAD MAPASSOCIATED STUDENTS
ROAD MAP
SERVICES AND RESOURCES FOR UC SAN DIEGO STUDENTS ARE      ONE STEP AWAY!JUSTJoin Harold on an emotional rollercoaster through Mexico and his conscience.
“Gringo” is an amusing action movie 
with an unexpected philosophical 
twist. The film is centered 
around a man named Harold Soyinka (David Oyelowo), a worker in middle-management for a pharmaceutical company that sells cannabis 
pills. The heads of the company, Richard (Joel Edgerton) and Elaine (Charlize Theron) have 
been secretly selling drugs to a Mexican drug cartel as a way to make extra money. During a business trip to Mexico, Richard and Elaine 
bring Harold with them as their assistant. Unbeknownst to Harold, the purpose of the 
trip was to provide an excuse for Richard and 
Elaine to end their business with said drug cartel. After their business is done, Richard and Elaine intentionally leave Harold behind in Mexico. 
During his time there, he encounters everything 
from traditional Mexican festivals to rumbles 
with its infamous drug cartels. While Harold is 
a considerate, mild-mannered man, Richard and 
Elaine are caricatures of avarice. The juxtaposition 
of Harold’s principled mindset with Richard 
and Elaine’s self-absorption evokes important 
questions about human morality. Richard and Elaine are embodiments of corporate greed while 
Harold is representative of the underdog who 
believes in the value of hard work. Y et, it is the less 
ethical characters that seem to succeed while the 
“good” people are taken advantage of. 
Harold ceaselessly grapples with a dangerous 
drug cartel who is trying to abduct and murder 
him because they think he is the boss of the 
company he works for. In addition to his already overwhelming situation in Mexico, Harold also finds himself grieving over many personal 
betrayals from his wife and friends. Despite the turmoil he faces, Harold consistently chooses 
to go down a virtuous path, even if it means 
sacrificing the life he thought he wanted. Harold learns that being a good person doesn’t require complete selflessness. After being abducted by 
a drug cartel, Harold realizes the importance 
of acting in his own best interest. In the midst 
of personal humiliation, Harold experiences 
an existential crisis in which he questions the 
purpose of leading an honest, virtuous life. When 
everyone he’s ever cared about turns their back 
on him, Harold begins to feel that his morals have 
brought him nothing but grief. Harold is able to overcome his doubts by finding the strength he 
needs within himself. 
Unfortunately, not all of the characters show 
as much growth or depth as Harold’s character. 
Sunny (Amanda Seyfried) and Miles’ (Harry Treadaway) characters seem to have potential, 
but the two are not integrated into the plot as much as is suggested by their introduction in 
the beginning of the film. Sunny’s character ultimately establishes a friendship with Harold when she finds him injured on the side of the 
road and decides to help him. However, there is little-to-no buildup to explain the fruition of their 
friendship; one moment they’re perfect strangers, 
the next they’re the closest of friends. Prior to finding Harold on the side of the road, Sunny and Miles only encounter him in the sense that 
they happen to be in the same vicinity and take 
notice of him. Sunny and Miles’ characters feel 
forced and are regularly thrown into scenes that 
don’t add anything to the plot or even require 
their presence. 
Overall, “Gringo” has some valuable lessons 
about what makes a person truly ethical, but 
has many issues with fully developing its characters. Half of the characters were portrayed 
as caricatures with no real depth beneath the 
surface. Throughout his journey, Harold is faced 
with impossible situations in which being a good 
person only serves to exacerbate his suffering, but comes to find that his integrity is the very thing 
that helps him transcend his losses. While there could have been better character development, 
the movie as a whole has important lessons to offer about what it means to be a good person when faced with adversity. “Gringo” is less about 
Harold trying to escape from the Mexican drug cartel than it is about his efforts to achieve 
success while maintaining his integrity in this 
selfish world. “Gringo” successfully deals with fundamental questions of human ethics under the guise of a modern comedic action movie, pushing 
the message that human goodness varies case-
by-case. While it is important to be patient and 
considerate of others, it is even more important to 
be considerate of one’s own well-being.  
—  lorena  espinoza
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
gringo
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Directed by   Greg Berlanti
Starring  Nick Robinson, Katherine Langford, Keiynan Lonsdale, Jennifer Garner
Release Date  Mar. 16, 2018 
Rated  PG-13CB-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MONDAY NIGHT JAZZ:  95JC JAZZ ENSEMBLESTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 12 - MAR 182018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANMONDAY, MARCH 12
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CONFERENCE ROOM, 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
Description: This informal drop-in group is 
designed to talk about topics relevant to Asian, 
Pacific Islander, Middle Eastern, Desi American 
(APIMEDA) students at UCSD in a supportive and problem-solving atmosphere. UCSD students, staff and faculty are welcome to attend all or any part of the forum. Issues such as career and academic success, family pressures, cultural identity, and relationships are common topics. Contact: diquach@ucsd.edu 
1pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR - 
GSA STUDENTS LOUNGE
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This 
forum will provide a supportive space to 
discuss various topics from a multicultural 
lens, which includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with your 
adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, 
family responsibilities, relationships (romantic 
or social),multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHOIR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Directed by Ken Anderson, the UC San Diego 
Gospel Choir combines hundreds of voices to fill Mandeville Auditorium with the uplifting sound of African American spirituals, blues, traditional songs, and gospel. Contact: boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
12pm
WHOS FIRST? FIRST GENERATION 
COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM - ROOM 
555, STUDENT SERVICES CENTER, 5TH FLOOR
The "Whos First?" Forum provides participants 
with a supportive, private environment to discuss their experiences as first-generation college students. Contact: rluna@ucsd.edu 
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress by playing with and petting 
therapy dogs at The Zone! This ongoing stress reliever happens every Thursday from 1:30 PM to 2:30 PM. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
WINTERWORKS 2018 - MANDELL 
WEISS THEATRE
Enjoy original works by choreographers 
demonstrating the creativity and technique that emerges from within and through the body in mastering the art of dance, with winterWORKS 2018 an undergraduate dance performance featuring students of UC San Diegos Theatre & Dance department. This show can be seen at the Mandell Weiss Theatre in La Jolla. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.eduTUE3.13
THU3.15
7:30pm
REVOLT. SHE SAID. REVOLT AGAIN. - 
MANDELL WEISS FORUM
This is a feminist alarm that scrutinizes the 
language, actions, and hidden biases of our society that unfairly favors men over women. Playwright Alice Birch puts forth a call for contemporary women to dismantle or sabotage anything that is complicit in their oppression. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
WINTERWORKS 2018 - MANDELL 
WEISS THEATRE
Enjoy original works by choreographers 
demonstrating the creativity and technique that emerges from within and through the body in mastering the art of dance, with winterWORKS 2018 an undergraduate dance performance featuring students of UC San Diegos Theatre & Dance department. This show can be seen at the Mandell Weiss Theatre in La Jolla. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.eduSAT3.11MON3.12
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
THE GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! 
3pm
PEACE OF MIND - DAILY DROP-IN - 
GALBRAITH HALL 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but 
you wish to learn how to navigate them better? In the Peace of Mind workshops, you will learn how to live in the moment, manage your emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness, and identify what is really important to your life. Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
7:30pm
REVOLT. SHE SAID. REVOLT AGAIN. - 
MANDELL WEISS FORUM
This is a feminist alarm that scrutinizes the 
language, actions, and hidden biases of our society that unfairly favors men over women. Playwright Alice Birch puts forth a call for contemporary women to dismantle or sabotage anything that is complicit in their oppression. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu12pm
CAMPUS BLACK FORUM - BLACK 
RESOURCE CENTER
Campus Black Forum provides a space for weekly 
discussions related to events, experiences, and areas of interests that impact the Black Community at UCSD. Contact: dbesson@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN MOVE - YOUR BODY, 
TONE YOUR MOOD - STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety, and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provided! Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
7pm
MONDAY NIGHT JAZZ: 95JC JAZZ 
ENSEMBLES - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety, and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provideducenmarketing@ucsd.edu
FRI3.09WED3.14CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 7PM ·
12pm
MUSLIM SISTERS COMMUNITY 
FORUM - ROOM 126, TMC ADMIN 
BLDG
Join us for conversations about our experiences as 
Muslim females and connect with other Muslim sisters. The forum will provide an open and 
supportive space for members to discuss their 
experiences as Muslim females at UCSD and 
within the larger sociopolitical society. Topics are determined by members, but may include: family and gender roles and challenges, cultural and religious identities, romantic relationships, discrimination, conflict resolution, well-being
3pm
TAU BETA PI - PI DAY CELEBRATION - 
EBU 2 COURTYARD
Come celebrate Pi day with Tau Beta Pi! Enjoy with fun activities, food, and a PI-ata. Contact: klala@ucsd.edu
3pm
2018 ART + FEMINISM WIKIPEDIA 
EDITATHON - GEISEL LIBRARY, 
CLASSROOM 2
This year, the UC San Diego Library is 
participating in the Art+Feminism Wikipedia 
Edit-a-Thon! Join us on Wednesday, March 14 in 
Geisel Library, Classroom 2 for an editing session to help improve Wikipedia entries on subjects related to art and feminism. Refreshments will be provided! Free and open to the public. Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
MAR 17
HAPPY
ST. PATRICK’S
DAYCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Child’s resort
5. Winter vehicle9. Iowa or Ohio
14. Bogus butter
15. Prehistoric dwelling
16. Laid bathroom flooring17. Auction offers18. Egg on
19. Amid
20. Dried grape
22. Casino game24. Goes up26. Operator
27. African desert
29. Bill
32. Involved36. Stage38. Give way
39. ____ Quixote
41. Scary
42. Make joyful43. Neverland resident (2 wds.)45. HST’s party46. Gasoline, in England48. Imitator50. Italian herb55. Sane59. Speaker60. Chubby61. Omen63. Declared64. Distributed cards65. Send out66. Other67. 19th letters68. Casino city69. SoothsayerDOWN
 1. Venomous snake2. Assumed name3. Army doctor
4. Sheriff’s group
5. Shameful incident
6. Science rm.7. Perpetually8. Alternate route
9. Like old bread
10. Stopwatch
11. Scads (2 wds.)12. Camp shelter13. Perimeter
21. Interior
23. Neighbor of Mex.
25. Storage building28. Add to the family29. Canvas cover
30. India’s continent
31. Existed
32. Looked at33. River in Egypt34. Athletic group35. Key near the space bar36. Paring tool37. Feminine pronoun40. Roman emperor44. The Raptors’ city46. Fountain ____47. Blackboard cleaner48. Theater walkway49. Verse makers51. Vapors52. “____ of Two Cities” (2 wds.)53. Din54. Command55. Went by horse56. Lincoln and Vigoda57. English beverages58. Shade of green62. Card gameHOUSING
La Jolla Crossroads. $1875-3050. 9085 
Judicial Drive, San Diego, CA 92122. Picture yourself in a Meditteranean village- the aroma of fresh food, the chatter of people 
in the park and an easy stroll to shops 
and fun. We welcome you to visit La Jolla 
Crossroads. You’ll be minutes from the beach, UCSD, major employers, shopping, 
movie theaters and fine dining! Our stylish 
studio, one, two and three bedroom apart -
ment homes feature washers and dryers, 
modern appliances, fireplaces, roman tubs and cathedral ceilings......ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
The Plaza Apartments. $1225-1605. 6150 
El Cajon Blvd, San Diego, CA 92115. Plaza 
Apartments offer an attractive and contem-
porary setting with several distinctive floor 
plans that include one and two bedrooms, some poolside. Some of the amenities you 
will enjoy are on-site and 24 hour emergen -
cy maintenance, a large refreshing pool, 
a relaxing spa, a BBQ area with beautiful 
pool furniture, reserved parking, balconies, 
trash chutes, generous sized closets and storage space, air conditioning, a study 
room and a shuttle. Plaza Apartments is 
also very close to the bus line, restaurants, 
and more!.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Vue at Lake Murray. $1625-1995. 6867 
Golfcrest Drive, San Diego, CA 92119. Bring 
your golf clubs and hiking boots to the 
Vue at Lake Murray Apartments! A small community located next to Mission Gorge 
Golf Course in San Diego, California, you 
can select from large one or two bed -
room floor plans with abundant storage 
and open designs. Enjoy modern ameni -
ties such as gorgeous tiger-eye granite 
countertops, new kitchen cabinetry with all new designer kitchen appliances, plush carpet and plank-style flooring throughout, 
designer lighting packages and fixtures, 
and a washer! ….ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
56” Widescreen HDTV Monitor Tv with DLP Technology. San Diego, CA 92131.  Selling it at $150 or best offer. Cash ONLY. Please 
come in the afternoon and pick it up. Email 
me or call my cell 858-735-XXXX to setup 
a time to meet. I also have the spec sheet 
if you would like me to email it to you. 
Thank you SPECS: DLP? TV (Digital Light 
Processing) - Single Panel Digital Micro-
Mirror Device (DMD) Design for a Crystal 
Clear Picture Without Any Possibility of Convergence Errors - High Output 0.8” DLP 
Technology by Texas Instruments 2000:1 Contrast Ratio …ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Gateway ESX E4000 Desktop Computer 
with LCD Monitor. San Diego, CA 92117. Have two Gateway ESX E4000 desktop 
computers with keyboard, mouse, and 
LCD flat screen monitors value priced to sell. **The picture shows a CRT monitor but it does come with an LCD monitor. 
These are great starter computers for users 
that like to surf the web, download music, and email. The computer is loaded with Windows XP Professional, Microsoft Office 
2007, Norton Anti-virus, and Windows 
Media Player. Priced to sell at $75.00 or 
best offer..…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationHP G71 laptop Windows 7 computer (2009) 
LIKE NEW WITH BOX. San Diego, CA 92124. This HP G71-329WM laptop computer was 
bought by me at Walmart during 2009 Black Friday. It is a larger type laptop with 
a 17+ inch screen. You can Google to find 
all the info on its specs and features but the 
highlights are in the original Walmart ad shown here. Although it is a few years old, 
it is in pristine, like new, perfect working 
condition..…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Business Development Executive. 
Jean Martin Inc. New York, NY 10065. 
Responsibilities: - Identify contacts, deci -
sion makers, buyers, vendor management 
contacts of Clients. - Prepare a strategy 
to contact the leads. - Approach and con -
nect with key decision makers. - Must have 
tremendous skills/desire to cold call relent -
lessly, approach new contacts digitally or 
in-person. ..…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Headhunter / Executive Recruiter. Daversa 
Partners. Orlando, FL 32885. Daversa Partners is currently hiring Consultant-level 
recruiters to join our seasoned headhunt -
ers. We are looking for recent graduates and/or those with 1-2 years of working/
internship experience, preferably in sales, 
recruiting, marketing, consulting or other 
outbound positioned roles that involve 
extensive interaction skills...…ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Member Solutions Associate. GLG. Austin, 
TX 78701. Member Solutions Associates 
know how to build and maintain relation -
ships. They focus on managing relation -
ships with GLG’s Council Members: 425,000 
former C-suite executives, academics, sci -
entists, policy specialists, former public sec -
tor leaders and other top professionals....…
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
Administrative 
Assistant Needed.
A Fast Growing company is 
currently looking for an 
upbeat individual to join 
their growing company . 
The ideal candidate must 
be detail oriented with 
the ability to make quick 
decisions and communicate 
effectively computer skills 
helpful,($500) weekly , to 
join our team.
Please respond via 
email and include 
your Resume or CV 
with a cover letter to 
robertstoll32@gmail.
com.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
“Trust the process, ” says Joel 
Embiid, the seven-foot center from 
the Philadelphia 76ers.  
As Lakers fans will tell you, 
trusting the process comes with lots of frustration as the historic 
franchise attempts to regain the 
power it once had. It has been four long years since the Lakers’ last appearance in the playo ffs and, from 
the looks of it, they are on course to make it five, extending the longest 
playoff drought in the history of the 
franchise.  
However, four years and four 
lottery picks later, the Los Angeles Lakers have built a young core that has the hunger and the potential to compete with the best in the 
NBA. Of course, only three of those 
players currently play for the team, as the Lakers shipped away point guard D’ Angelo Russell to the Nets 
in the o ffseason in return for the 
27th pick in this past year’s dra ft and 
center Brook Lopez.  
The three others are Julius 
Randle, Brandon Ingram, and Lonzo Ball. Randle has been on an 
absolute tear as of late, and Ingram has had a total turnaround season from his rookie year.  Ball, who 
struggled with his shot early in the 
season, has improved since coming back from injury and injects life into this Lakers team with his energy on both ends of the court. If you ever 
watch Lonzo play, he demonstrates 
an outstanding amount pace and energy that is contagious throughout the group.  With the aforementioned 27th 
draft pick from the Nets, the Los 
Angeles Lakers selected the steal of 
the dra ft in Utah State’s Kyle Kuzma. 
That young fellow can ball out as he 
presents such a unique skill set in a 
young player. Kuzma can shoot the 
ball from anywhere on the court, 
inside or outside.  
Only three picks a fter Kuzma, the 
Lakers selected Josh Hart who has 
had  a solid rookie season as well. 
After splitting time with the South 
Bay Lakers, the Lakers G-League affiliate, in the beginning of the 
season, he has become a pivotal part 
of the young core. Unfortunately, a 
fractured hand during practice most likely puts him out for the rest of the season. 
So the question is how do the 
Lakers judge success? 
With a 29–36 record going into 
Sunday’s matchup against LeBron James’ Cleveland Cavaliers, the 
Lakers technically still have a 
chance to make the playo ffs as they 
sit seven games behind of the eighth seed in the West. But with 17 games 
remaining, the young Lakers need 
an absolutely incredible run of wins to even have a chance at that last playoff spot.  
As a Lakers fan myself, I will 
always believe in the slightest of chances the team has to make the playoffs. False hope or not, this 
season has been, by far, the most 
promising in recent years as the 
young core of the team has begun to figure things out. Like all sports 
fans, and especially as a fan of the Lakers, the only way to say it has 
been a successful season is finishing with a championship to end the 
season. But that likely won’t be the case this year, seeing as the young 
but promising team has much to 
improve on.  
First o ff, the Lakers are back 
to playing entertaining basketball 
and are perhaps one of the most 
entertaining teams in the league 
because of the fast pace they play 
at. Unfortunately, the entertainment 
part has not translated to more wins. 
However, the fact that the young core has been able to compete with the best in the NBA and not simply get blown out — like in recent years 
— is a good sign.
For example, in the three 
matchups against the defending 
champions, the Golden State 
Warriors, the Lakers have lost two in 
overtime and the third by 7. In both overtime games, the Lakers had the last shot to earn the win but failed on both occasions.  
One flaw that has remained 
consistent in many losses this year for the team is its inability to close out games. There have been countless 
games that the Lakers held the lead with only a few minutes remaining in the game, but somehow found themselves unable to score a bucket when it mattered most. Closing out 
games has been the Achilles’ heel of 
this young Lakers team.  
But over all that, we have seen 
Randle and Ingram become two 
legitimate problems for their 
opponents, finally coming into their 
own this season. Randle has always possessed the energy and hunger to become a big part of the team 
on both ends of the court, but this season, his attitude has changed 
and he really has become one of the Lakers’ best and most consistent 
players.  
In his timid rookie year, Ingram 
showed flashes here and there but 
could not find his style of play 
and consistently struggled with 
shooting. However, this year he has 
been an absolute monster, and you 
could notice the self-con fidence he 
has this time around. From the start of the season, Ingram has driven into the lane relentlessly and successfully due in part to his lengthy frame. Whether it be pulling up from 
mid-range or driving in for a layup, 
Ingram has become the Lakers go-to player for much of the season. 
In terms of Randle, his rookie 
contract expires at the end of this season and I think, with the way he has been playing this year, there is no way the Lakers want to resign the man. Obviously, he would take up more cap space, but I still think he should remain a Laker or else he will be beating us up down the line with 
another team. 
So is this a successful season?
In terms of winning, no. But, to 
say there has not been a change in 
the culture and no improvement in 
the way the team plays that would be 
a huge understatement.
As a Lakers fan, you should 
definitely be on the lookout for this 
young team to do some real damage 
in the coming years. 
This offseason, with two max 
contracts in the air, we should 
expect someone will be coming 
to Los Angeles to help restore the championship pedigree to the team. Who knows who it will be? But 
it will be a fun summer, to say the 
least.   
BY Daniel Hernandez
SENIOR STAFF WRITERThe Lakers’ Season: Success or Failure?
Senior Staff Writer Daniel Hernandez weighs in on the state of the Los Angeles Lakers.
Daniel Hernandez  DAH043@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF NBA.COM16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 12, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
The UC San Diego men’s basketball team fell to California Baptist University in the 
NCAA Division II West Regional quarter final, 81–67. The Tritons close out another 
successful season as the California Collegiate Athletic Association champions and 
finish with an overall record of 21–11. 
The Tritons faced o ff against the Lancers in the New P .E. Gymnasium at 
Monmouth, Oregon. 
UCSD went 28–61 (45.9 percent) from the field and 7–22 (31.8 percent) from 
the three-point line. The Tritons kept the ball safe, ending the game with 7 turnovers 
compared to the Lancers’ 15 turnovers. The Lancers outshot the Tritons, finishing 
with an overall field goal percentage of 56.5 percent (26–46) and a 3-point field goal 
percentage of 58.3 percent (14–24). Junior swingman Christian Oshita led the Tritons in scoring with 23 points 
on 10-of-19 shooting. Junior guard Christian Bayne and senior forward Michael 
Shoemaker chipped in with 18 and 12 points, respectively. 
The Tritons stayed close in the first half, only trailing by 3 points (35–32) going 
into halft ime. They stayed within reach until the 6:42 mark. With the score at 60–55, 
the Lancers made a small run to push their lead to 67–57. Oshita sank a 3-pointer in an attempt to quell the fire, but by then it was too late. The Lancers cemented their 
10-point lead and maintained the advantage into the end of the game. The buzzer 
sounded and the Tritons saw their post-season dreams come to a crash. Final score: 
81–67. 
UCSD enters the o ffseason with the hopes of going for a third-straight CCAA 
championship. 
Men's  basketball
BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports Editor
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
With rain predicted in the forecast 
for Saturday and every California 
Collegiate Athletic Association matchup being important, the Tritons were noti fied Wednesday morning 
that their four-game series would take place across three days as opposed to the typical two days. First pitch was rescheduled for Thursday night, under 
the stunning stadium lights of UC San Diego’s very own Triton So ftball Field 
at approximately 8:15 p.m.
Approaching the series with an 
8–4 record in conference, the team 
looked to capitalize on the opportunity 
of game day coming one day sooner than normal. The competition would 
depart from the North this weekend as California State University, East Bay (5–11) was set to head straight to the field from the airport upon arriving in 
San Diego.
Game 1
To start things o ff, the Pioneers 
stranded two runners on base as freshman pitcher Robyn W ampler worked her way out of a jam in the top of the first inning. The Tritons 
quickly answered back to the pressure and jumped on the board early in the 
bottom half. Two singles and a sacri fice 
bunt set runners on first and second for 
freshman catcher Bobbi Aguirre who 
launched a 3-run homerun down the left field line.
The rest of the game remained 
scoreless until the sixth and seventh innings. UCSD was unable to string multiple hits together again to provide 
a cushion for the pitchers down the 
road. The Tritons knew that CSUEB 
refused to go down easy and would come out attacking hard if they allowed the Pioneers to hang around — which is exactly what they did.
The Pioneers scored a run apiece 
in the last two innings. Fortunately, 
UCSD stopped the bleeding before it 
was too late and successfully walked away with another conference win of a score 3–2 and momentum leading into the next three games to come.
Game 2
The second day put the Tritons 
back on track to follow their pre-game routines, a typical double header just like they were used to. With no 
guarantee that Saturday’s game would 
be played, they had a chance to win the series right then and there!
Scoreless through the second, UCSD’s bats came alive in the third 
inning! A leado ff hit batsman and a 
single up the middle from sophomore 
utility Mikaila Reyes put runners on for the top of the lineup. Senior second baseman Kendall Baker, freshman catcher Bobbi Aguirre, and junior shortstop Maddy Lewis each drove in a run to bring the score to a 3–0 lead.
Reyes tallied an additional RBI of 
her own in the fourth inning, giving UCSD’s pitchers some room to work with amidst a 4–0 lead. 
An outstanding outing, possibly 
the best of her career from sophomore pitcher Alanna Phillips le ft East Bay 
begging for runs late. W ampler came in to close the door and the Tritons were 
sitting pretty at 2–0 on the weekend.
Game 3
Junior catcher Kristyana 
Boghossian took the ball for UCSD 
heading into game three. Aside from giving up just 1 run in the bottom of the first inning, Boghossian kept the 
Pioneers o ff balance. 
UCSD scored the majority of its 
runs in the third, fourth, and fifth 
innings. 
In the fourth inning, sophomore 
outfielder Danielle Stedman showed o ff 
her speed and heads up baserunning, scoring from second on a walk that 
resulted in a wild pitch. Stedman 
turned the burners on rounding third as the ball bounced around the back stop and slid safely into home! 
A walk-o ff, pinch hit, and home 
run by freshman utility Isabel Lavrov ended the game on a mercy rule in five innings. The bases were juiced 
and on the second pitch of the at-bat, 
Lavrov yanked an inside pitch over 
the left field fence! The Tritons rushed 
the field, crowded around home plate 
waiting for Lavrov to touch them all, and celebrated the clutch 4 RBI bomb and 10–1 victory. 
UCSD went on to sweep the series, 
completing the fourth game 9–3 in 
spite of rain sprinkled here and there. 
The alumni sat proudly in the stands 
looking in on the foundation they created years ago. 
With finals week approaching, 
UCSD will take on CCAA first place 
California State University, Chico on Thursday and Friday of next week 
for two consecutive doubleheaders. Thursday’s games are set for 4 p.m. and 
6 p.m. while Friday’s game will be at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. in La Jolla.
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY WILHELM // UC SAN DIEGO PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
Softball 4-Game Sweep 
Bumps Tritons to 
Second Place in the 
CCAA
UCSD defeats Cal State East Bay and 
improves to 8–4 in CCAA conference play.
by Madeline Lewis  //  Staff WriterTritons Fall 
in NCAA Quarterfinals to Conclude 
Successful 
Postseason
UCSD falls to California Baptist 
University in the NCAA D-II 
West Regional Quarterfinals, 
81–67.
BY Madeline  Lewis
Staff WriterUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
W Tennis
Softball
Softball
Volleyball3/143/153/153/163/163 PM2 PM4 PM
12 PM
7 PMvs. Western New Mexicovs. Colorado Statevs. Chico Statevs. Chico Statevs. UC Irvine
Athlete’s Insight:
“I stepped into the box, dragged my feet against the dirt, flattening the surface and dug into my stance. I looked for something to drive on the outer part of the plate. I like to work the count deep so I let the first strike go, knowing she would have to come to me again. The windup ... and the pitch. I kept my hands back, let the ball travel, and extended through, striking it through the right side, 1 run scores! I reached first and gave my first base coach a fist bump. What a feeling!” - Junior shortstop Maddy Lewis