VOLUME 51, ISSUE 21  MONDA Y , APRIL 2, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Well-known social media 
celebrity, activist, writer, and actor 
George Takei is scheduled to visit the UC San Diego campus on Thurs.day, April 26 at 5 p.m. in Price 
Center West Ballroom to provide 
his own segment of the DeWitt Higgs Memorial Lecture, a UCSD lecture series that focuses on law and society. 
Takei’s talk is entitled Where No 
Story Has Gone Before; An Evening With George Takei: Actor, Social Justice Activist & Media Mega-Power, and will be covering major 
experiences in his life.Event tickets will be accessible on 
the Higgs Memorial Lecture website 
on April 9. The lecture is open only to UCSD students, staff, and faculty 
for an admission fee of $20. There 
is no charge for undergraduate students. Graduate students, staff, and faculty are able to purchase one guest ticket. 
Takei’s professional acting career 
began in the 1960’s when he played Hikaru Sulu on Star Trek: The Original Series. Since then, Takei has appeared on countless other 
TV shows and films; he has also 
been featured in the Broadway play Allegiance, a show inspired by his own life experiences in World War II.
The Los Angeles-born activist will also be lecturing on his childhood within the Japanese internment camps. Takei holds a place as the former Cultural Affairs Chairman 
of the Japanese American Citizens 
League, and also served on the Japan-U.S. Friendship Commission in support of Japan-U.S. relations. 
As an openly gay public figure, 
Takei has contributed to projects involving social justice and LGBTQ+ rights, one of them being his position as the spokesperson for “The Coming Oout Project. ” . 
Past DeWitt Higgs lectures are 
made public by UCSD-TV and can 
be viewed on their website.Bees Infest 
Campus, Swarm to Student Beards
Our reckoning by bees was 
bound to come.
According to all known laws of 
aviation, there is no way a bee should 
be able to fly. Its wings are too small 
to get its fat little body off the ground. The bee, of course, flies anyway 
because bees don’t care what humans 
think is impossible. Y ellow, black. Y ellow, black. Y ellow, black. Y ellow, 
black. Ooh, black and yellow! Let’s 
shake it up a little. Barry! Breakfast is ready! Ooming! Hang on a second. 
Hello? - Barry? - Adam? - Oan you 
believe this is happening? - I can’t. I’ll pick you up. Looking sharp. Use the 
stairs. Y our father paid good money 
for those. Sorry. I’m excited. Here’s the graduate. We’re very proud of 
you, son. 
A perfect report card, all B’s. Very 
proud. Ma! I got a thing going here. - Y ou got lint on your fuzz. - Ow! 
That’s me! - Wave to us! We’ll be in row 118,000. - Bye! Barry, I told you, 
stop flying in the house! - Hey, Adam. 
- Hey, Barry. - Is that fuzz gel? - A little. Special day, graduation. Never 
thought I’ d make it. Three days grade 
school, three days high school. Those were awkward. Three days college. 
I’m glad I took a day and hitchhiked 
around the hive. Y ou did come back different. - Hi, Barry. - Artie, growing 
a mustache? Looks good. - Hear 
about Frankie? - Y eah. - Y ou going to the funeral? - No, I’m not going. 
Everybody knows, sting someone, 
you die. Don’t waste it on a squirrel. Such a hothead. I guess he could have 
just gotten out of the way. I love this 
incorporating an amusement park into our day. 
That’s why we don’t need 
vacations. Boy, quite a bit of pomp... under the circumstances. - Well, 
Adam, today we are men. - We are! 
- Bee-men. - Amen! Hallelujah! Students, faculty, distinguished bees, 
please welcome Dean Buzzwell. 
Welcome, New Hive Oity graduating class of... ...9:15. That concludes 
our ceremonies. And begins your 
career at Honex Industries! Will we pick ourjob today? I heard it’s just 
orientation. Heads up! Here we go. 
Keep your hands and antennas inside the tram at all times. - Wonder what it’ll be like? - A little scary. Welcome 
to Honex, a division of Honesco and 
a part of the Hexagon Group. This is it! Wow. Wow. We know that you, 
as a bee, have worked your whole 
life to get to the point where you can work for your whole life. Honey 
begins when our valiant Pollen Jocks 
bring the nectar to the hive. Our top-secret formula is automatically color-
corrected, scent-adjusted and bubble-
contoured into this soothing sweet syrup with its distinctive golden glow 
you know as... Honey! - That girl was 
hot. - She’s my cousin! - She is? - Y es, we’re all cousins. - Right. Y ou’re right. 
- At Honex, we constantly strive to 
improve every aspect of bee existence. CAMPUS
BY Madeline Leon
staff Writer 
BY  Steve Hickner & Simon J. Smith
 STAFF WriterS
Activist and Actor George Takei to Give Lecture at UC San Diego
A student speaks at the gun violence walkout. Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  
See BEES,  page 3Incoming Associate Director of the Teaching + 
Learning Commons Dr. Carolyn Sandoval was 
not hired to replace the Center for Engaged 
Teaching Director Dr. Jace Hargis, contrary to 
implications by the Triton’s article “UCSD Fires 
Teaching Center Director Without Reason; Hires 
Administrator’s Wife Instead. ” Dr. Sandoval is also not married to Vice Chancellor of Equity, 
Diversity, and Inclusion Becky Pettit, despite the 
Triton’s classification of Sandoval as Pettit’s “wife.” 
The Triton’s reporting on the reorganization 
states that “the Director of the Center for Engaged Teaching, Jace Hargis, was terminated from his position this year and the encompassing center was reorganized with a new lead: Carolyn L. 
Sandoval. ” However, statements released publicly 
on the restructuring of the Commons and to the UCSD Guardian specifically indicate that Sandoval 
is not the new head of the Center for Engaged 
Teaching and was instead hired for a completely different position than the one from which Hargis 
was removed. 
An email to faculty and staff from the Office 
of the Executive Vice Chancellor on March 2 describing the reorganization of the Teaching + 
Learning Commons explains that previously, the Commons was divided into the Center for Engaged 
Teaching, the Center for Digital Learning, the Writing Hub, and the Triton Achievement Hub. 
However, in an effort to “remove the perceived 
boundaries associated” with the distinct centers, 
the Center for Engaged Teaching and the Center for Digital Learning will be dissolved and the 
Engaged Teaching Hub and the Digital Learning 
Hub will take their place. 
With Dr. Karen Flammer making the transition 
from director of the Center for Digital Learning  to director of the Digital Learning Hub, Hargis was the only head of the pre-existing centers 
and hubs to be removed from his role during the 
restructuring of the Commons. 
“The four hubs include: the Triton Achievement 
Hub, directed by Susan Rinaldi, and the Writing 
Hub, directed by Matt Nelson — both were already 
in place under The Commons structure, ” Faculty Director of the Teaching + Learning Commons 
Gabriele Wienhausen told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The two newly created hubs include the Digital Learning Hub, directed by Karen Flammer, and the 
Engaged Teaching Hub, with the director position 
still open. ” 
The vacancy in the directorship for the Engaged 
Teaching Hub means that Sandoval was not hired to take Hargis’ place upon his termination, nor is she the “new lead” of the Engaged Teaching Hub.
Sandoval was also not hired as “Director of By  Lauren  Hol t   news editorCAMPUS
New Commons Administrator Not Married to Vice Chancellor
Takei was accused of sexual assault last year by a former model and actor.See COMMONS,  page 3PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
A.S. ELECTION 
ENDORSEMENTS
Despite the fact that a single 
slate is running unopposed 
this election cycle, our 
endorsements came out 
of careful consideration of 
the individual candidates’ 
platforms.
AN  ODE  TO  HEEL YS
HOW  TO  BOUNCE  BACKWONDROUSL Y  WHEELED
SPRING  BREAK  FOR  LIFEOPINION,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,  PAGE  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The Guardian editorial 
board views this situation 
as an extension of the 
concerning trend of 
disengagement from 
student leadership and 
campus affairs. That a 
singular, incomplete slate is 
running nearly unopposed 
is a dual indictment of 
the Associated Students 
Council and the student 
body at large.”
- GUARDIAN EDITORIAL 
BOARD, PAGE 6Features,   PAGE  6 
MONDAY
H 17 L 13
WEDNESDAY
H 18 L 13
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
TUESDAY
H 17 L 12
THURSDAY
H 19 L 13
LIGHTS & SIRENS........2
CULTS AND STUFF ......4
ROCK’N ROOSEVELT...9
PEAKS & PREVIEWS..10
FULL GUARDIAN........16UCSD
Madeline Leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
@ucsdguardian
TIMMY TRITON By Andrew Diep
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. No joke, just depression.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarMonday, March 19
10:58 a.m. Battery
Patient lightly pushed nurse and took her glasses, victim 
does not wish to press charges. Hospital Security report 
taken.
Tuesday, March 20
11:07 a.m. Information
Male conscious and breathing but feeling dizzy. Referred to 
another agency.
5:45 p.m. Fire
Dumpster Fire. Referred to other agency.
Wednesday, March 21
12:30 a.m. Injury
Male with injury to legs caused by being pinned between two 
motor vehicles. Transported to Hospital.
12:57 a.m. Citizen Contact 
Housing maintenance requesting to speak with RSO 
regarding smoke detector tampering. Referred to Student 
Conduct.
1:38 a.m. Medical Aid 
Adult female with pacemaker, experiencing rapid heart rate after several shots of Espresso and two energy drinks. 
Transported to Hospital.
1:50 a.m. Suspicious Person
Per library security, male attempted multiple time to make 
entry into location without I.D. claims to be a transfer 
student. Information only.
8:09 a.m. Medical Aid
Adult male possibly having a stroke. Paramedics responded.
10:37 a.m. Information
Human waste next to trash can. Referred to other UCSD 
department.7:47 p.m. Information
Male in red vehicle stopped to ask reporting party if she 
wanted a ride, RP declined and motorist drove up to stop sign and watched her, motorist drove off once RP’s boyfriend arrived.
Thursday, March 22
4:29 p.m. Warrant Arrest
Subject contacted during her report of suspicious person. 
Closed by adult arrest.
10:00 p.m. - 10:21 p.m.
Report of intoxicated non-affiliate male, bothering students. 
Closed by adult arrest.
Friday, March 23
6:23 p.m. Hazard Situation
Three male students jumping off roof while taking pictures 
of each other. Unable to locate.
11:00 a.m. - 8:30 p.m. False Pretenses 
Victim responded to “spam” notice and provided $3700 in 
gift cards as payment for fraudulent services. Report Taken.
Saturday, March 24
3:01 a.m Battery
Security officer scratched by patient while assisting in 
placing patient into restraints. Referred to other agency - San Diego Police.
4:51 a.m. Citizen Flagdown
Students’ skateboard fell in sewer. Service provided.
1:49 p.m. Hazard Situation
Golf cart blocking traffic. Service provided. 
2:14 p.m. Medical Aid
Young adult male with acute vomiting. Transported to 
hospital.
—   Armonie Mendez
Associate News EditorLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
A.S. Election 2018
as.ucsd.edu/elections Vote on TRITONLINK
April 9-13
TO
THEThese bees are stress-testing a new 
helmet technology. - What do you 
think he makes? - Not enough. Here 
we have our latest advancement, the Krelman. - 
What does that do? - Oatches that 
little strand of honey that hangs after you pour it. Saves us millions. Oan 
anyone work on the Krelman? Of 
course. Most bee jobs are small ones. 
But bees know that every small job, if it’s done well, means a lot. But choose carefully because you’ll stay in the job 
you pick for the rest of your life. The same job the rest of your life? I didn’t 
know that. What’s the difference? 
Y ou’ll be happy to know that bees, as a species, haven’t had one day off in 
27 million years. So you’ll just work 
us to death? We’ll sure try. 
Wow! That blew my mind! 
“What’s the difference?” How can you say that? One job forever? That’s an insane choice to have to make. I’m 
relieved. Now we only have to make 
one decision in life. But, Adam, how could they never have told us that? 
Why would you question anything? 
We’re bees. We’re the most perfectly functioning society on Earth. Y ou 
ever think maybe things work a little 
too well here? Like what? Give me one example. I don’t know. But you 
know what I’m talking about. Please 
clear the gate. Royal Nectar Force on approach. Wait a second. Oheck it 
out. - Hey, those are Pollen Jocks! - 
Wow. I’ve never seen them this close. They know what it’s like outside the 
hive. Y eah, but some don’t come back. 
- Hey, Jocks! - Hi, Jocks! Y ou guys did great! Y ou’re monsters! Y ou’re sky 
freaks! I love it! I love it! - I wonder 
where they were. Stinging Not Optional
▶ BEES, from page 1
the Teaching + Learning Commons, ” which the Triton’s reporting later 
inaccurately stated toward the end of 
the article, but was instead selected as the associate director of the Teaching + 
Learning Commons. According to an 
email sent out March 2nd explaining the reorganization of the Commons, the position of associate director was a new role created as part of the 
restructuring.
“In this role, Dr. Sandoval will 
co-direct the Commons’ Senior 
Management Team and staff with Faculty Director Wienhausen, and 
ensure coordination and synergies 
within the Commons, ” Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth Simmons writes 
in the message.
Following the announcement of 
Sandoval as the new associate director, concerns have been raised over the 
nature of her relationship with Vice Chancellor Pettit.
An unnamed source informed the 
Guardian that Pettit and Sandoval are not married, so Sandoval is not legally 
Pettit’s “wife” as the Triton states. 
However, the source also refused to confirm or deny that there was any 
other form of personal relationship 
between Sandoval and Pettit, who both relocated to UC San Diego from Texas 
A&M in 2018 and 2015, respectively.  
Based on a letter published by 
Wienhausen on March 21 detailing the search and hiring for the associate 
director position, it appears that she was sent an earlier letter that brought 
up the issue of Pettit’s involvement 
in the appointment process, which Wienhausen denies.
“Contrary to the claims made in the 
letter received on March 5, 2018, the Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, 
and Inclusion was not involved, ” 
Wienhausen wrote. Wienhausen’s letter also states 
that Sandoval, who was the associate director of the Center for Teaching Excellence at Texas A&M, was 
“unanimously affirmed as the best 
candidate for the position” by the search advisory committee and was approved 
by the Academic Administrator and 
Academic Coordinator Review Panel. 
There is still no information on 
why the Commons removed Hargis 
from his position. When asked 
directly why Hargis was fired from his position, Senior Director of Strategic 
Marketing  Communications Judy 
Piercey declined to provide an answer.
“We cannot discuss personnel 
matters, ” Piercey stated.
Note from the reporter: I am a 
current student employee of the Teaching + Learning Commons. I was inspired to write this article after I noticed several 
inaccurate and misleading statements 
in the Triton’s original reporting and believed our readers would benefit 
from a clarification of the controversies 
surrounding Dr. Sandoval’s hiring. I was in no way influenced to write this article 
by my supervisors, and I had very 
little direct contact with my employers throughout the process of investigating 
and writing this article. In the few 
instances in which I spoke to members of the Commons’ staff regarding my 
plan to publish an article, I drew a clear 
line between my employment at the Commons and my work on this piece 
as a journalist. It is worth noting that 
the managing editor and editor-in-chief of the Triton, as well as members of the 
UCSD Guardian’s copy team, are also 
listed as employees of the Commons. There Are Still No Details on Hargis’ T ermination
▶ COMMONS, from page 1
Fa ke  n ews   Aprilfools@ucsd.edu LAUREN  HOL T   LCHOLT@ucsd.edufollow  us  
on
        twitter
@ UCSD
        GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The biggest liar of all is none 
other than President Donald 
Trump.  He is posing as a 
conservative, but he is actually 
a fake conservative. In 1999, he proposed that the Congress pass a new “National Wealth Tax” 
of 14.25% on all individuals 
who have a net worth of $10 million and higher. Notably, this would be a wealth tax rather than an income tax. This is a 
very liberal idea. There is not a 
single Democrat in either house of Congress who supports such a liberal policy as this. However, 
the Green Party does. Trump 
wanted the money generated by this tax to be spent on two items:
1. Totally eliminating the 
national debt — a conservative 
idea.
2. Spending the remainder on 
adding it to the Social Security 
Trust Fund to make it more fully 
solvent for additional years — an 
idea that is extremely far from conservativism.
Currently, Social Security 
is fully solvent through the 
year 2034, meaning that there 
is absolutely no reason for Conservatives to want to cut benefits right now (as they yearn 
and crave to do). The less-than-
truthful conservatives in the Congress and the right-wing propaganda media machine do not want the public to know this.
President Trump has been 
posing as a conservative. He has been masterfully manipulating all of us and playing us for fools and 
suckers, both his supporters and 
his critics.
As someone who has been 
a life-long and loyal liberal/
progressive Democrat, I am 
very disappointed by the fact that most Democrats in the United States Senate and House of Representatives (as well as 
most other Democrats on “the 
national scene,” including the liberal media) seem to care a lot more about the plight of illegal 
immigrants than they care about 
the economic and financial plight and struggles of the poor, the near-poor, the lower middle-class, and senior citizens. They 
seem to believe that everything 
would be perfect in the USA if only we all would “be nice, make nice, and talk nice” to each other.
Both letters submitted by Stew 
Epstein
Letters 
to the
 Editor
It was the mid-2000s. A simpler time. 
A brighter time. We were told the 
bird flu was flying straight to the 
states, some of us still thought that we 
were justified in ramming “democracy” 
into the Middle East, and Randy Jackson 
of “American Idol” convinced us that any American with stellar pipes and 
baby blues could truly be one worthy of 
idolization. In fact, my Kelly Clarkson shrine made out of Magnetix has stood 
loud and proud at home since its creation 
in high school. But most importantly, it was the era of Heelys.
Heelys were a wearable revolution — 
simultaneously a revolt against using legs traditionally and a much-needed threat against the bicycle elite. No longer would people be forced to trod by foot or lug 
around a board through campuses the size 
of a Renaissance-era Italian city state. With no more than a brief boost, we Heely 
hellions were able to roll our way into a 
momentary nirvana. Who needs heroin when you’ve got Heelys? It may have not 
been freedom from friction, but it was 
damn close to it. Had my parents never broken down and bought me that first 
pair of Heelys I wept at Footlocker for, 
I would have never had the few precious experiences I did during my tenure at UC 
San Diego.
I started my freshman year with wide-
eyed optimism. Sure, I had no sense of community and I only hung out with 
my roommates, but that’s just a UCSD 
thing. I’d often look into Revelle plaza, 
a wonderland of wheels with shreddin’ skaters and blasé bicyclists alike, but felt 
nothing when an ollie was popped or a 
kick was flipped. These hooligans weren’t my people and they never would be. The 
bicyclists lacked any humility, flaunting 
their over-designed contraptions and freely swiping their platinum card in 
order to replace the wheels I’d pop in the 
dead of night every finals week. I hope you had fun walking to and from Pepper 
Canyon, chumps. The skaters were much 
better, always willing to share a smoke as By alumnus Chuck Worthy, Past and Current Heely FanDAYS 
OF 
(HE)ELYSIUM
Cults and Such
By Christopher Robertson  // Opinion Editor
“One of us, one of us, one of us” they 
chanted as the scaldingly-hot, pitch black 
Folgers coffee poured from the styrofoam 
chalice into the fresh, nubile lips of the naive 
freshman. They only needed one thing to complete the contract, just one thing to ensure that this young fool would never be free from 
their frigid grasp: his UCSD email. 
The past few years have seen the growth of 
a number of religious organization on campus, 
all of whom have transitioned to more modern approaches of indoctrinating UC San Diego’s 
ever-growing pool of heathens. A common 
example is the neverending barrage of email-based references to such classic biblical verses as Judges 3:6 and Jesus 4:20 that follow once 
they lull a complacent freshman into a false 
sense of security with an offer of free coffee. But many are beginning to question if these religious groups should turn the other cheek to more common forms of marketing and return 
to their humble roots of brimstone, sulfur, and 
the utter damnation of non-believers.
When asked about these critiques, one 
member of the UCSD chapter of Intervarsity 
said, “We noticed that people were becoming 
less and less receptive to the message of God so we asked [hashtag] W.W.J.D., and the decision was unanimous among all our members: coffee probably.” Some groups criticize this 
approach of mainstream marketing as a means 
of recruiting new initiates citing the efficacy of traditional scare tactics in integrating strict fundamentalist beliefs into every facet 
of an initiate’s life. A member of the UCSD 
chapter of Cru argued, “people need to realize that blind subservience to God’s will under penalty of incurring his wrath is the only 
way to protect them from… Oh, Jesus Christ, 
what’s his name again? You know, the guy with the horns.”   
The issue with both of these approaches is 
that they each cater to too niche of an audience. 
The modern approaches appeal more to the millennial crowd 
whose religiosity is typically centered 
around cleverly shared 
Facebook posts to distract God from their night of sweet, 
sweet debauchery. 
The fundamentalist approaches fit more with the crowd who occasionally confuses 
Trump with one of the 
12 apostles. If these student organizations really expect to succeed 
in the competitive 
marketplace of conversion, they need a more holistic and time-tested model. 
That is to say that these 
organizations should become cults. 
Cults offer a happy medium between the 
archaic rigidity of fundamentalism and the 
laissez-faire frivolity of modern religion. 
This precarious position finds balance by offsetting the fear of eternally damning one’s mortal soul to the abominable pits of hells through crude and callous sin with some 
pretty neat benefits. The peripheral nature of 
cults allows the group to pick and choose its own interpretations of scripture, cutting out those useless, inconvenient bits like “thou 
shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife.” Plus, 
the messianic leader of the cult has to handle all the responsibility of running the group, which is especially useful for a busy student 
whose midterms take precedence over some 
silly covenant with God. The best talking point though is the bragging rights that come from knowing that this particular cult will, without a doubt, inherit the earth. After all, 
isn’t condemning your professor to toil in hell forever much more satisfying than writing an 
unflattering CAPE review?
Cults have stood the test of time for a 
reason, so it is about time that the student organizations on campus take a cue from some of the oldest institutions in history. This is especially true given that many religions began as cults. In pagan society, for 
example, Christianity was a divisive cult that 
crept its way through every part of western civilization. It became so influential that it lead to crusades, the Inquisition, homophobia, 
restrictive gender roles, and worst of all, mean 
nuns. The current student organizations can only ever hope to have this level of influence. 
So the answer to W.W.J.D. is clear 
— start a 
cult. 
Christopher  Robertson   crr015@ucsd.eduSATIRESee DAYS, page 5 ▶
Illustrations by David JuarezOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
long as I watched their tricks and oily hair shine 
bright in mid-air.
It wasn’t until I started trolling through 
Craigslist’s Casual Encounters (RIP) on the emptiest of my empty days that I found a post titled “[M4A] 
UCSD Student Looking for Hella Heely Homies” 
and made my first real connection. Finally having found a fellow Heeler, I opened up my student email 
account seconds after and sent off all the personal 
details requested: selfie, physical stats, SSN, age, and a short response explaining how Heelys have 
improved my life. After a few days of waiting, I 
was notified with my acceptance. Within a week of that, I was introduced to the rest and all eight of us 
branded each other in a circle — much like a wheel 
— with the almighty “H” on our chest. The heart wants what it wants.
We had officially formed a crew called “The 
Rolling Stoners” with matching bracelets and the following four years would be glorious. We’d roll to class, we’d roll to lunch, we’d roll to court. Hell, we’d roll while rolling. Every publication on campus except for the Saltman Quarterly (bless 
those bio majors) had mocked us for living our lives 
as we wanted to — fast and furious. It didn’t matter that we were different majors or colleges because 
we shared that precious bond of Heely hype. We 
may have got together at first because of the Heelys, but we stayed together because of the  friendship. 
The Human-Heely bond is not one to doubt.
Unfortunately, a little over a decade later, it 
seems like our dream of a campus teeming with Heelers wasn’t meant to last. UCSD no longer seems 
to have any open Heelers whatsoever and it’s a sad state to be in. Where’s the pride? Where’s the spirit? 
Until new heroes rise, this campus’ hills are there 
for the taking by whoever steps — nay, rolls — up.
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
SATIRE
april fools  CWORTHY@ucsd.edu▶ DAYS, from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Kenji
AsakuraEmma 
Potter
Daniela Salazarcampus-wide  senatorcampus-wide  senator
Campus-WIDE  Senator Despite the fact that a single slate is running 
unopposed this election cycle, the endorsements 
below came out of careful consideration of 
the individual candidates’ platforms. After individually interviewing each member of the 
EMPOWER slate and the two independent 
candidates, the UCSD Guardian editorial board considers the individuals discussed here to be qualified and prepared to take on their 
respective positions. 
That being said, we feel obligated to express 
our extreme hesitation to endorse anyone at all given that there is so little competition in 
this year’s pool of applicants. Not only does competition in the electoral process lead to a 
continuous process of debate and growth, it also 
ensures that students have the right to decide who most accurately reflects their interests and 
goals for elected office. Students should not 
have to settle for their elected officials. And yet in this election cycle, we must. 
The Guardian editorial board views this 
situation as an extension of the concerning trend of disengagement from student leadership and campus affairs. That a singular, incomplete 
slate is running nearly unopposed is a dual 
indictment of the Associated Students Council and the student body at large. The irony 
of an incomplete slate — one that operates 
on a platform of empowering students to take action on the issues that directly affect 
them — running nearly unopposed is not 
lost on us. Going forward into the 2018-2019 academic year, the Guardian editorial board encourages those who are elected in this cycle 
to constantly push to build their relationships 
with their constituents; that some students do not even know that students’ governance 
exists on this campus is proof of the failed 
connection between these two bodies. Also, we insist that the student body take a moment and 
consider this death of democracy to inspire 
a sense of civil duty and participate in the political process on all levels. This goes beyond 
voting to include the active participation in 
tackling the challenges facing students within and without this campus. Students consistently lament their issues with Housing Dining 
Hospitality, Chancellor Khosla, the Academic 
Senate, and the UC Office of the President, but 
caring about an issue is entirely separate from 
engaging with an issue. 
The student leaders listed here all have 
unique experiences that inform their platforms 
and their approaches to student governance. 
For this reason, the UCSD editorial board is confident in these endorsements. Time will tell 
whether or not these candidates will be able 
to reverse the decline in civic engagement and restore UCSD’s political process to one which 
the students deserve. 
- 
Guardian Editorial BoardHaving become an A.S. senator 
this past fall as a first year student 
of Eleanor Roosevelt College, Kenji Asakura has proven his interest in and commitment to student government. As a candidate on the EMPOWER slate, he plans to pursue working on the very same issues his colleagues are: fixing a long-standing lack of transparency in A.S. and improving both quality and access to the health services provided on campus.
Kenji believes that a lack of 
visibility for many of the services already offered by campus health programs, like health/assault resource centers and CAPS’ student wellness program, has led to a general underutilization by students and necessitates better promotion by UCSD. However, not all students who are aware of these services in the first place are comfortable in reaching out. In order to change that, he’ d like for CAPS to hire more counselors who are also conscious of being culturally inclusive.
He also plans to push back 
student apathy with action by building a more open dialogue between student leaders and the student body through a strong network of campus representatives and officially publicized office hours. The utility of programs and events, especially towards finals, can’t be understated because he sees the value in face-to-face communication with the students candidates are beholden to. Kenji’s interest in further pushing public awareness of AS goes alongside boosting transparency with the work of AS and student senators by his goal of having student leaders write year-end summaries of all work being done in a concise format geared towards the public. Kenji’s duo of energy and commitment are exactly what’s needed not only on this campus, 
but from A.S..Emma Potter prides herself 
on a platform centered around 
disenfranchised and marginalized groups. This political science major based in Sixth College hails from Alaska, where she first participated in student government. Her time there, and her experience as First Y ear Senator, informs her platform, which she says “focus on accessibility and affordability because those two things determine a student’s experience at our school. ” Sustainability and mental health resources are at the top of the list of her agenda, especially access to mental health resources because the lack thereof limits a student’s opportunities to succeed. 
Not only does Potter echo many 
of the concerns that students have with the current resources and policies at UC San Diego, but she also reflects a wise change that she and her slate are trying to instigate in the coming year: a shift from programming-based action to policy-based action. She admits that A.S. has had issues with transparency and commitment in the past, but believes that this shift will help ameliorate these issues. By switching to policy-based action, she hopes to lay the groundwork for longer-lasting institutional work. As she says, she does not want to spend “two days on an issue and leave it. ” 
Though her experience socially 
and professionally has been in Sixth College, she has made an effort to look beyond the boundaries of her campus to consider the needs of students within and without the campus. This broader focus, in tandem with the community building lessons she learned during her tenure at the Sixth College Council, make her someone that the UCSD Guardian Editorial Board is more than happy to 
endorse for Campus Wide Senator.
Daniela, a fourth year 
Thurgood Marshall College 
student and current RA on the EMPOWER slate, holds no hesitation in advocating for greater support of mental health services and the immigrant community on campus. She has already taken the initiative of speaking with current A.S. members in order to establish not only a sense of continuity, but to learn how to best deal with the specificity of many issues facing students today.
She’s critical of how A.S. has 
been in the past, noting that previous slates have been given to personal issue and conflicts due to underlying friendships that have led to resignations. That’s part of why she’s part of the EMPOWER slate — the candidates are a strong team of individuals with similar goals. With what she believes to be a strong slate and team, she believes that they can have more of an impact by producing tangible results throughout the year without major disruptions from resignations. Her and the slate’s goal of achieving a heightened sense of continuity and public awareness is one and the same. She wants A.S. to consistently have note takers on hand to foster a strong connection to student media and press, have all meetings be filmed, set clear goals, and something else that should be simple enough: communicate. By having consistent records and communication, she hopes to improve the retainment of knowledge and training that has been impacted by this school year’s turnover.
Daniela is also focusing on 
issues within resident life by improving what is done with any excess Residential Life money. She wants that money to be put into addressing issues of basic needs and resources instead of just programming for students. Expanding funding for the resource centers is critical for many students of color, especially in regard to health sustainability and retention with an emphasis on the immigrant community. Much like Kenji, she is also planning to work toward more inclusive councilors in order to make campus services more welcoming than they currently are. The Undocumented Student Services Center, Raza Resource Center, and Black Resource Center all share a single therapist — which relegates the needs of the students these centers represent. Her multifaceted commitment to the diverse student body at UC San Diego is more than enough for the UCSD Guardian Editorial Board to be happy supporting her campaign.
  A.S. 
ELECTIONSFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Kiara  
gomezKell y Morris
daron
woodssim
bha tia
A.S.  PresidentOff -Campus  senator
V.P.  Campus  AffairsEngineering  Senator
A current sophomore from Thurgood 
Marshall College, Kiara Gomez has not lost 
any time getting involved on campus. After working at the Teaching and Learning Commons and as an Office of Academic Support and Instructional Services staffer her first year, she took on a position as a cabinet member of Marshall College her second year — as well as a position in the campus office of human relations.
This election marks her first time 
running for A.S. Council, but Kiara is well aware of her lack of experience — balancing it out with plenty of initiative and ideas. In our interview, she mentioned restructuring how the A.S. Senate works, instituting workshops to train incoming executives and coalition building between campus communities. She has shown her dedication and abilities to help first-generation students and undocumented students, and if elected, would prove an effective leader to all UC San Diego students.
Kiara’s platform is threefold. Her first 
priority is retention, as that has been an issue with A.S. in the past, and she’s already begun combatting that problem by only putting forward dedicated candidates. Second is accessibility, where she intends to fight in support of basic needs for students, taking the succession of her predecessor Lesly Figueroa. Lastly, she wants to improve engagement on campus and in our great city. She floated the idea of a coalition with other universities in the San Diego area as an example, along with improving access to all of A.S. through public forums and a “rebranding” for the students. 
Within A.S., she wants to emphasize 
more cooperation between the offices and with the college councils, centralization of information regarding A.S. initiatives and reaching out to traditionally forgotten communities such as transfer students and commuters. Finally, she intends to work with local lawmakers and entities to push  a pro-student agenda forward at both the local and state level.
Yet one word kept coming back: 
retention. In order to be more efficient in serving the students, she will work on retention of student leaders and community representatives as well as elected student representatives. And if anyone is ready to take on that challenge, it is Kiara Gomez, our pick for next year’s A.S. President.As a Fund the UC member and current 
A.S. Off-Campus senator, Thurgood 
Marshall College second year Kelly Morris 
is no stranger to logistical work and the issues that concern commuters. Through her experience in such organizations, she’s come to learn exactly what is feasible for campus projects and has led to many introductions with faculty and students that will help her conduct research informing projects for years to come.
Kelly spoke to the Guardian on the 
matter of constant construction on campus, especially with the current work on the Mid-Coast trolley project that has led to a significant loss in available parking spots vital to commuters. Besides working to make sure that the S spots students will lose access to aren’t instead replaced with A/B spots as a consequence of the construction of Sixth College in the Muir parking lot, she also wants to make sure that current transportation options to and from campus improve. Despite MTS efforts to improve their performance, she believes that shuttle services need more support — especially at a time of such heavy construction.
However, her focus goes farther 
than just transportation for off-campus students. She wants to make sure that off-campus students also feel supported 
on campus because many commuters 
have claimed that they come to campus for class and nothing more — missing out on the social aspect that can make a campus feel like more of a home. By having student leaders and boards plan events at times friendlier to commuters, she believes that the current state of apathy of campus can be chipped away at bit by bit. Collecting all pertinent information on existing resources for commuters and having a commuter rep on most, if not all, college councils is also a priority for her. Kelly also suggests that the campus begin investing in things like commuter lockers and supporting more affordable food options on/near campus because commuting students need to plan their day’s schedule with a specificity that non-commuters don’t. With an eye for logistics and a passion for people, Kelly has proven herself as an incredibly promising candidate for our campus.
Daron Kyle Woods is one of the 
easier endorsements the editorial board has made this election cycle. This international studies major from Roger Revelle College not only has experience in student governance but he also has a keen set of ideas for how to improve student governance on this campus. During his time at San Diego Community College, Woods began his involvement in student government by serving as the school’s senate president. During this academic year, he continued this trend of public service by serving as a campus-wide senator following the resignation of his predecessor. These experiences have informed his conclusions that both the current A.S. Council and the college councils need institutional changes in order to increase their efficacy. 
When he sat down with the Guardian, 
Woods outlined a number of ways to bolster the efforts of elected student leaders. The first, and the one that stood out the most given this year’s concerningly high number of resignations, was reworking the retention of knowledge over the years. Woods recognizes that the yearly turnover of elected officials means that institutional memory is constantly at risk of being lost. So, he recommends the creation of a database to store the information that one receives during their tenure in elected office for their successor, and an increased focus on training incoming staff members, whether elected or appointed. This goes in hand with another suggestion that caught our eye, which was holding those who do not meet the standards of their positions accountable. These ambitions, along with his many other ideas concerning the structure of student government and his interest in coalition building to tackle the daunting challenges that face those in elected office, evidence his capacity to enact lasting institutional change to student governance on this campus.  
However, his platform does not stop 
there. As a transfer, he is especially receptive to the need for a transfer student resource center and for a more inclusive and engaging campus climate. Both tie back to the overall goal of his slate to empower students to make use of their resources and advocate for the issues that directly impact student life. This student-centered mechanism of political action bodes well for Woods’ future in the role of Vice President of Campus Affairs.Running with the EMPOWER slate 
and focusing on improving access to 
Maker-Spaces for engineering students, 
Sim Bhatia is a well-rounded and motivated candidate for the Engineering senator position. A Sixth College sophomore and Sixth College Senator this year after being judicial board member her freshman year, she has the kind of experience in A.S. that most young candidates do not possess. As an active member of the engineering community and one of the first 13 students to commit to UCSD’s new data science major, Sim is committed to easing engineering students’ path by expanding campus resources.
On the question of how to achieve that, 
Sim presents a few options. She wants to implement better communication between her and the students, floating the idea of making surveys a regular occurence. She also mentioned involving the engineering fraternities and trying to reach the different college councils to have better representation for the engineering community. If elected, she vows to work for better transparency, all 
in an effort to be more accessible to the 
community she will be serving.
Sim also believes in the message of 
her slate as a whole, especially in regard to student apathy toward the student government. She is also well aware that her running unopposed for the position might make her seem less legitimate. However, she believes that this situation puts all the more pressure on her to perform at a high level, and she has already begun taking the necessary steps in that direction. She reached out to both current and the past senators, learning alongside them and asking for advice and counsel. 
All in all, Sim Bhatia is a qualified 
and determined candidate who will do an admirable job as next year’s A.S. Engineering Senator. 
 
make  sure  to  vote!
VOTE ON TRITONLINK, APRIL 9-15A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Although the film introduces an intricate plot line and new worlds, the film’ s overemphasis on artistry prevents the story from being fully realized. 
Many kids have fallen in love with 
Madeleine L ’Engle’s “ A Wrinkle in Time, ” a classic coming of age story 
woven into a grand adventure through space. It was, and still is, a novel that challenges readers’ 
imaginations and provokes questions about how 
we see ourselves and are seen by others. Although the book is filled with complex symbolism, the plot is never lost in the multitude of double entendres. This is where the movie falters. Despite A-list casting, with the likes of Oprah Winfrey and Reese Witherspoon, and extravagant special effects, the film’s underdeveloped characters and vague plot explanations fail to capture the 
audience’ s attention. 
The story centers around Meg Murry (Storm 
Reid), an academically gifted middle schooler 
distraught over her father, Alex Murry’ s (Chris Pine) disappearance four years prior. Through flashbacks and conversations between her teachers, it is established that Meg was a bright, enthusiastic child before her father’s unexplained departure; however, when we see her, Meg is an 
insecure, angry young lady who is bullied by the 
popular girls at school. Her adopted younger brother Charles W allace (Deric McCabe) is a child genius whose age is ambiguous, although based on the flashbacks he should be around six. It’ s shown that Charles W allace is highly intuitive about Meg’ s emotions as well as the nature and 
intentions of the many celestial beings they later 
encounter during their travels. The extent of his abilities, however, is neither explored nor explained. 
Both children believe their father is alive and 
will someday return to them. Their assumptions are confirmed when three mysterious women, Mrs. Whatsit (Reese Witherspoon), Mrs. Who (Mindy Kaling), and Mrs. Which (Oprah 
Winfrey) arrive at their house and tell them that 
their father is in great danger and has called to them for help. Thus their interplanetary journey begins, accompanied by one of Meg’s classmates, Calvin, (Levi Miller) who randomly appears as the siblings set off on their journey with the vague explanation that he felt compelled to go to their location. 
The interplanetary travel is achieved 
through tessering — the same method Alex Murry accidently accomplished on the night he disappeared — which is derived from the word tesseract and explained adeptly by the story’ s title. In other words, rather than travel linearly, the group travels by means of skirting through different dimensions, or wrinkles, in time. Each 
planet is an exploration of modern CGI, with 
one particularly nonsensical sequence where Mrs. Whatsit turns into a giant flying cabbage leaf and takes the children on a magic carpet ride across her planet, slowing down an already sluggish plot. Unfortunately, neither the graphics nor the score were mesmerizing enough to distract from the plot holes.
The movie lacks both a central villain and the 
sense of foreboding present in the books. It’ s pretty obvious that The Man with the Red Eyes (Michael Peña) is the film’ s intended villain, however the source of his power and his planet’ s malevolence is presented so briefly that viewers can only begin to understand the implications of “the darkness” that he controls and how to fight it. 
Although the movie made great strides in the 
avenue of diversity, the star-studded adult cast 
was largely under-utilized, especially Oprah’ s and 
Kaling’ s characters. Reid portrays her reserved, stony character convincingly, however McCabe’ s portrayal of Charles W allace — one of the book’ s most powerful characters — is unconvincing. Perhaps the role demanded too much of the young actor, but the movie’ s climax, which rests 
largely on his shoulders, is very difficult to take 
seriously. The gravity of the situation, already precariously established, is lost by end of the scene. Miller’ s character is hardly developed and his gift for diplomacy is barely used, making his original purpose — except as a possible pseudo-romantic lead — questionable.
Directed by Ava DuV ernay, this movie is the 
second attempt at a film adaptation of the book, 
the first of which was released in 2003. At the 
time L ’Engle told Newsweek that she “expected [the movie] to be bad and it was. ” Although she is not alive to see this version of her beloved tale, one wonders if she would have the same reaction. Even with the technological advances made since the first attempt, this adaption fails to deliver a coherent story that captures the magic and depth of its inspiration.
—  promita  nandy
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
a wrinkle in time
PHOTO COURTESY OF DISNEY MOVIES
Directed by   Ava DuVernay
Starring  Storm Reid, Levi Miller, Deric McCabe, Oprah Winfrey, Reese 
Witherspoon, Mindy Kaling, Chris Pine, Michael Peña
Release Date  March 9, 2018
Rated  PGCC+
In a scene of tasteful refinery, Hayley Kiyoko lounges, comfortable but collected, her head tilted 
with a look of transfixion that one might expect from an observer of the room’s art. Rather, Kiyoko 
stares at what lays just before the camera, the curving — and abjectly nude — silhouette of a woman. The cover complements the album’s title: “Expectations. ” Expectations are something that Kiyoko herself, now officially debuting after a steady stream of the pop singles and dreamlike music videos 
that earned her a devoted following and the moniker “Lesbian Jesus, ” has a lot to live up to.
Kiyoko doesn’t only meet these expectations, she goes beyond them. It’s an album filled with the 
same sweet and smooth, yet undeniably catchy, pop which defined the 2015 release of “Girls Like 
Girls” that launched her into relevancy. Firmly in line with the image Kiyoko has built, “Expectations” is a confident breakthrough into the pop scene. Kiyoko sings about seducing women — and maybe falling in love — with all the self-assurance of the male artists of her genre.
The album begins with the overture “Expectation, ” defined by a resonating electronic build, and 
ending with the chirping of birds before transitioning into the illusory “Feelings. ” It carries only one collaboration: “What I Need, ” a refreshingly fun interlude filled with rhythmic pop beats featuring 
fellow queer artist Kehlani.
Kiyoko generated excitement for the album with her earlier release of “Sleepover” as a single, 
but the song finds a new home nestled among “Expectations”’ other tracks, which complement the 
song’s tone while allowing it to stand out in its own right. “Sleepover” is a silky serenade to imagined “sleepovers in my bed” and the futility of impossible desire. Its ending — a sonorous blanket of singing birds — finds new context within the avian motif first introduced in the album’s overture.“Sleepover” makes for an easy transition into “Mercy/Gatekeeper, ” which opens with similar 
sounds of the night, and continues with an appropriate dream-like feeling, singing of an empty wanting, asking to “give me mercy / because I keep hurting. ” The song then shifts into an uneasy static, a voice barely distinguishable between it all, before suddenly turning into a song much different than what it was before, faster paced and more upbeat. It quickly dissolves back into static, this time with 
Kiyoko asserting that “I keep what’s mine, I can have your soul / And live with contempt, free from 
fear” and declaring herself “the gatekeeper” before fading back into “Mercy’s” refrain.
The album continues to blend a sensual dreaminess with distinct pop flavor. “Under the Blue/Take 
Me In” employs a similar bait-and-switch technique to “Mercy/Gatekeeper, ” moving from the airy “Under the Blue” to the deeper, distinctive rhythms of “Take Me In” within the same track. “Curious” is a pulsating inquiry into an ex-girlfriend’s current relationship, anxiously questioning whether “you let him touch you the way I used to, ” and the album builds into a swelling conclusion with the resigned but triumphant “Let It Be. ”
Overall, Kiyoko has met any expectations lobbed at her prior to the album’s release, but created 
quite a few more for her career to come. A tantalizing but tasteful tribute to lust, love, and self-definition, “Expectations” is an album sure to satisfy.
—  chloe  esser
 A&E Editor
expectations
by  hayley kiyoko
Release Date  Mar. 30, 2018
With soulful lyrics and addictive melody, Hayley Kiyoko surpasses all “Expectations” in her debut album.ALBUM   REVIEW
AA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
77H(-$0(6.%,1'(5/(&785(LQ/LWHUDWXUH3UHVHQWV
%$5%$5$0,77/(5
Feeling Matters: Gender Interactions and the Making of Cultural 
Memory in China's Vernacular Media, 1900s-2000s
How do beauties touch their men and when and where does this become visible? Put differently: How 
does feeling matter and what shapes does it take both textually and visually? Does it make a difference whether the depicted is a film star or a commoner, a revolutionary or a bourgeois? And how are these 
depictions read by contemporary audiences? Does it matter what these audiences remember to have 
seen, touched, experienced somewhere before? Surveying women’s magazines and other entertainment 
media published throughout China’s long 20th century, this lecture discusses the politics of feeling. It will show how form, material and color take on ever-changing meanings and continually reshape the 
ways in which beauty and intimacy can be played out visually and textually and thus experienced and 
touched by the audiences reading these publications. The lecture will thus trace textual and visual 
evidence for dominant and prescribed as well as subdued and subversive modes of seeing, touching and feeling and reflect on the importance of intertextual and intervisual memory-making in this process.  
7hurVGD\$SrLO 
SP
7KH$WNLQVRQ3DYLOLRQDWWKH
)DFXOW\&OXE8&6DQ'LHJR 
$UHFHSWLRQZLOOIROORZWKHOHFWXUH 
)UHHDQGRSHQWRWKHSXEOLF
7KH-DPHV.%LQGHU/HFWXUHVKLSLQ/LWHUDWXUHLVPDGHSRVVLEOHE\0U%LQGHU·VJHQHURXVEHTXHVW  
DQGKRQRUVKLVZLVKHVWKDWZHEULQJOHDGLQJ(XURSHDQLQWHOOHFWXDOVWR8&6DQ'LHJRWRSURYLGHD 
IRUXPIRUULJRURXVGLVFXVVLRQVRIOLWHUDU\WRSLFV 
Contact Derrick Chin for reasonable accommodations to enable your access and participation ²    
derrickchin#ucsd.edu 
%arbara 0ittler holds a Chair in Chinese Studies at the 8niversity of 
Heidelberg and is Director of the Heidelberg Centre for Transcultural 
Studies former ´Cluster of (xcellence Asia and (urope in a *lobal 
Contextµ. She began her studies at the 8niversity of 2xford 0A 2xon 0, and has spent research periods in Taiwan, the People’s 5epublic of China, Hong .ong and at Harvard and Stanford 8niversities. Her PhD 
 and her habilitation  are from Heidelberg. Her research 
focuses on cultural production in greater China covering a range of topics 
from music to visual and historical print media in China
s long modernity. In 20, her book-length study of the Chinese Cultural 5evolution won the )airbank Prize by the American Historical Association. 
what do you
need? let us
help.
price center east, level 3asgraphicstudio.ucsd.eduasgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
858.246.0972Free of charge, this year’s Rock N’ Roosevelt brings the charismatic indie-rock band “Bad Suns” to UC San Diego.
Desperate for respite amid the upcoming 
finals season, students lined up outside of PC 
Ballroom West a full hour and a half before 
the doors opened at 7 p.m. The anticipation 
continued to build as the hour passed, and the line stretched all the way to Library Walk.
With a more-than-substantial turn out, 
students huddled together in the hopes of being as close to the stage as possible. While many came not knowing anything about the bands, a decent amount of concert-goers were fans of the headliner “Bad Suns. ” Nonetheless, the prospect 
of free music and a little downtime before Spring 
Break brought the students together. The open space of the ballroom combined with dimmed lights and the soft chattering of students provided 
an easy-going atmosphere that buzzed with 
enthusiasm. Once the lights hit, the crowd eagerly met the first opener with a roar. 
“Rookie Doyen” sauntered onto the stage, 
proudly displaying a hand-crafted sign with its 
band name written in capital letters. As the band 
declared, the crowd would not forget “Rookie Doyen” anytime soon, and no, even they were unaware of the meaning behind their name. 
The quintet started off high-powered and full 
of energy, despite technical difficulties with its keyboardist. Thankfully, this did not hinder their sound nor their momentum. Lead vocalist Sanjay John scrunched his shoulders alongside high notes and pulled faces perfectly matching the mood of each song, and the crowd responded 
with a generally warm response.
In the second half of the set, the band 
incorporated the keyboard, introducing a 
jazzy flourish to to their brand of power-pop. 
Though confusing and a bit awkward, the unique 
performance still garnered enthusiastic audience participation. “Rookie Doyen” finished their set with a mellow track — a sharp contrast to their 
previous piece and the perfect interlude to the 
next act.
The second opener, “Moontower, ” felt like a 
secret; no one knew what to expect. With no music 
released at the time or accounts on Spotify or 
Soundcloud, the band emitted an air of mystique. 
However, the group delivered exactly what the crowd was waiting for: some synth, some bass, and some colorful flashing lights. Illuminated by five glowing towers flickering to the beat of 
each song, “Moontower” successfully cultivated 
an ambience that blended chill synthwave with a futuristic sound. Each song flowed into the next, and students threw open hands into the air, 
following the pounding bass.  
The entire set of “Moontower” could be 
described as a sneak peak as the band performed 
songs not yet released, enthralling the audience with tracks like “Can’t Be Dreaming, ” featuring a groovy baseline and an impossibly growing tempo. “Pilot, ” the only song released thus far, 
highlighted a deeply pulsing synth beat that 
had the crowd bouncing on their heels. Despite “Moontower” facing a crowd completely unaware of their sound, the band’s performance and stage 
presence served as a well-received and certainly 
welcomed surprise.
However, neither opener met the same 
amount of hype and cheer as the headliner “Bad Suns. ” Considering “Bad Suns” had performed the 
year prior at UCSD’s very own Sun God Festival, 
an overwhelming excitement swept through the crowd. Most predicted a set predominantly comprised of tracks from “Disappear Here, ” the 
most recent “Bad Suns” album. Instead, “Bad 
Suns” opened their set by catering to tracks from their debut album “Language” and “Perspective, ” including the angsty but bright “Transpose” and “Cardiac Arrest, ” the song that catapulted the 
band to recognition with its catchiness, melody, 
and earworm of a chorus. While the wait for a newer song was longer than expected, the audience’s patience soon paid off.
The heart-warming “Daft Pretty Boys” proved 
to be the most anticipated song, amassing an overwhelming amount of cheers within the first few seconds as well as throughout the entire performance, becoming the undeniable crowd favorite of the night. Throughout the set, lead vocalist Christo Bowman displayed his signature 
quirky dance, a combination of shuffling his feet 
and zigzagging his body to the beat. As always, Bowman did his best to connect with the crowd, even venturing into the sea of students during a 
rendition of the plucky track “Rearview. ” Soon 
afterwards, “Bad Suns” closed off their set with “Salt, ” a song featuring poignant lyrics coupled with a grooving bassline.
While the concert ended abruptly with 
“Bad Suns” rushing off stage, it was favorable to lingering around aimlessly. Most students scurried outside, either to catch a picture with “Moontower, ” pick up some “Bad Suns” merch, or 
escape the sweaty crowd. Overall, this year’s Rock 
N’ Roosevelt featured three fantastic bands with distinctive sounds that definitely met students’ expectations, and even exceeded them in some regards. One can only be hopeful about who Rock 
N’ Roosevelt brings next year for the opportunity 
of enjoyable and enthusiastic live performances in the comfort of our very own campus.
  
—  Jahfreen Alam
Staff Writer
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  Price Center Ballroom West
Concert Date   March 9, 2018Rock'N Roosevel t 2018
PHOTO COURTESY OF SPOTIFYCb10                                              T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
The Point Loma Fish Shop is one of the four locations of its kind in San Diego. Just as 
the name implies, this restaurant prides itself on its assortment of seafood, and — speaking 
from personal experience — it does not disappoint. 
This Point Loma location sits on the corner of Rosecrans and Cañon with tables and 
chairs bordering the sidewalk. Ideally, on a nice day, the front wall slides up like a garage door, connecting the inside seating to the outdoor patio. At night, as temperatures drop, 
sitting inside feels like the only option. However, the restaurant will soon have awnings and heaters to accommodate various types of weather. 
These outdoor patios are a popular spot for a pitcher of beer and the $1 oyster special 
on warm, summer evenings. Upon entry, customers are greeted by a host and can feel the relaxed atmosphere of the place with its calming sea-blue walls and classic rock playlist 
playing faintly in the background. The nautical theme is kept up with large paintings of a 
swordfish and an anchor on the walls. Aside from the all-wooden tables and chairs, there’s also a sports bar with the bar, stools, and mounted televisions projecting whatever game 
or championship is happening. Customers range from older couples, groups of young 
adults, families, and even dogs, which is a tribute to this restaurant becoming a hit within the community. The staff will attest to the popularity of the place and demographics will 
certainly back them up. 
As for the menu, there are several crowd-pleasers. As someone who isn’t always a big 
fan of seafood, I was impressed. The mahi mahi ceviche was an instant favorite of mine; served with warmed tortilla chips, the lemon juice in the ceviche perfectly blends with the 
taste of the fish without overpowering anything. Another must is the Fish Shop shrimp: sauteed shrimp in a special Fish Shop seasoning, served with a chipotle aioli sauce. Given 
that they’re slightly tangy with a bit of a kick, these shrimp were gone quick. Honorable 
mention goes to the coconut shrimp, with its crispy, sweet coating of batter and fresh shrimp. The onion rings were softer than expected, but it seems hard to judge a seafood 
restaurant by their onion ring quality, especially since the plate was clean by the end of 
the meal, anyhow.
Overall, with the affable staff and open, friendly atmosphere, the Point Loma Fish Shop 
is a perfect place to take visiting family or for a casual get-together with friends. The menu prices are not the cheapest, with fish tacos going for around $6 and sandwiches for around $15, but it seems fair to say the portions match the price well enough. Next time you’re 
looking to sit down for some fish tacos or just share some appetizers, be sure to swing by 
for some seafood with good company.
What to order: Mahi Mahi Ceviche ($8.50/$12.50), Fish Shop Shrimp ($11.00)
Location: 1110 Rosecrans St #100 San Diego, California 92106 · (619) 756-777-1110 
Hours: Every day (11am - 10pm)P oint Loma Fish Shop 
by Colleen Conradi // Contributing Lifestyle Writer
Welcome back! It’s that time of year again with a new month, new quarter, and new 
opportunities to procrastinate and enjoy a San Diegan spring season. 
San Diego Botanic Garden ArtFest April 7–8, 2018 9 a.m.-5 p.m. @ San Diego Botanic 
Garden in Encinitas (with paid admission)
A quick draw contest featuring regional artists? A garden full of buds and blooms? In other 
words, take a meditative walk and enjoy some green to ease back into the quarter.
Triton 5K April 15, 2018 9:00 a.m. @ Spanos Track and Field Stadium ($15)
3.1 miles on UC San Diego’s terrain? Easy. 
Fallbrook Avocado Festival April 15, 2018 9 a.m.-5 p.m. @ E Alvarado St. and S Main Ave. 
in Fallbrook
It doesn’t get much more Californian than this. Celebrate our state’s treasure and satisfy 
the basic within. 
The Continuous Clapback, Part II: The Legacy of Local Activism April 19, 2018 4:00 p.m. 
@ Dolores Huerta Room
Hosted by the African American Studies program, The Continuous Clapback features 
the role of Black women in urban community activism through the experiences of Wilnisha Sutton, N. Diane Moss, and Dr. Sharon Whitehurst-Payne. 
San Diego Comic Fest April 20 to April 22, 2018 10 a.m.-11 p.m. @ Mission Valley and Old 
Tow n’s Tow n and Countr y Resor t and Conve ntion Ce nte r ($7 to $50)
Couldn’t make it to Comic-Con? Not to worry, this weekend exhibit of comics, films, and 
animation will satisfy fans sans overcrowded rooms and high ticket prices. 48th Chicano Park Day Celebration April 21, 2018 10 a.m.-5 p.m. @ Chicano Park in 
Logan Heights
Themed “El Corazon de Aztlan,” this 
celebration features traditional art, dance, and music while remembering the struggle and beauty of the Mexican and Chicano communities. 
San Diego EarthFair April 22, 2018 10 a.m.-5 p.m. @ Balboa Park 
Celebrate sustainability through crafts, storytelling, food, and fair trade.
Art Alive: The Museum in Full Bloom April 26 to April 29, 2018 10 a.m.-5 p.m. @ San Diego 
Museum of Art in Balboa Park ($5 to $25)
Spring takes over Balboa Park in artistic arrangements of flora and fauna. Not to be missed 
by creative connoisseurs or flower fanatics.
Encinitas Street Fair April 28 to April 29, 2018 9 a.m.-5 p.m. @ Highway 101 Between D 
and J Streets in Encinitas
Free and fun for all, this pavement playground is the perfect place to spend the day 
wandering around more than 450 vendors of food, music, and crafts. 
Mission Federal ArtWalk April 28-29, 2018 11 a.m.-6 p.m. @ Little Italy 
Reclaiming gray sidewalks for the 34th year, Mission Federal ArtWalk is a collaboration 
of local artists to paint the streets and fill the air with music, spoken word and communal 
creativity.April 2018 P eeks and Previews 
by Lifestyle StaffLIFESTYLE                               T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
DISCOVE R A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARSHIP 
PROGR AM.
©
2
0
1
4
. 
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
 i
t
ed 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. 
y
. 
y
Al
l
 rig
h
t
s
r
es
er
v
ed
.
The U.S . Army’ s Health Profes sions S cholar ship 
Program (HP SP) offer s qualiﬁed medic al, dental 
and vet erinary st udent s full t uition f or a gr aduate-
level degr ee at the s chool o f your choice . You’ll 
receive a mon thly s tipend and pa ymen t for books, 
equipmen t and ac ademic fees , as w ell as the 
potent ial to gro w as a le ader .
To learn more, visit
healthcare.goarmy.com/btsV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
fac eb o o k12                                               T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
The end of winter quarter is met with the infamous spring break, 
a pseudo-resting period that tricks Tritons into thinking they’re 
relaxed, only to have them arrive back to campus a week later and 
realize they haven’t fixed their sleep deprivation at all. For many students, the transition from winter to spring quarter is often the 
most difficult, since there isn’t much of a transition at all. If you’re 
already feeling burnt out, here are some tips to make the shift into the next eleven weeks a little bit easier. 
1. Don’t overdo your first week back 
It may seem tempting to jump right back into a cycle of going to 
bed two hours before your 8 a.m. after you’ve had a Cup Noodles 
midnight snack, but remember that you probably don’t want to 
be sneezing through all of your April lectures. Getting sick at the beginning of the quarter sets you up for failure, and illness will be 
harder to reverse as the weeks go on and on. Take week one slowly, 
get enough rest, and eat well. Your body will thank you later. 
2. Practice self care
Block out time in your schedule to watch Netflix or read a book. 
Head out to UTC for some retail therapy, treat yourself to a good meal, or add an extra hour to your nap. Whatever your escape from 
the stressors of school is, practice it extra often while the quarter is 
still early and you have time to do so. 
3. Try a different study location
If you’re getting sick of Geisel, UCSD offers countless other study spots. The Biomedical Library is great for those who appreciate the quiet, while Middle of Mom and Peet’s works for 
students who like a more collaborative space. For those who like 
to mix their studying with a bit of java, head to La Jolla Village Square for Starbucks or Philz Coffee or to Downtown La Jolla 
for independent coffee shops like Pannikin or Living Room 
Coffeehouse. 
4. Set daily goals 
Instead of tackling what seems like a never-ending weekly to-do 
list, take some time before you sleep to write out all the things you want to achieve the next day. This makes getting work done more 
likely since you’re held accountable for only a few goals, and you 
won’t feel as overwhelmed. 
5. Create a challenge
Aim to attend every professor’s office hours at least once. Try 
to go to the gym every day. Join a new organization. Think about how you can make this quarter better than the last, and then set 
the challenge. 
6. Adopt a new perspective
Not happy with how winter quarter went? Easier said than 
done, but try to not to let the unfortunate occurrences of last 
quarter carry into this one. Spring quarter should be treated as a fresh start — you have new classes and new opportunities to 
succeed. Y ou can do this.How to Bounce Back from Spring Break
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle EditorCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MUIR MUSICAL PRESENTS  JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTARTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 2 - APR 82018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANAPRIL 7, 8, 12, 13, 14
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
CPR & AED TRAINING DAY - 
SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF 
OCEANOGRAPHY, SCRIPPS FORUM AUDITORIUM
Learn how to respond to a sudden cardiac 
arrest using hands-only CPR from professional first responders. Get hands-on experience with 
our practice mannequins. No CPR cards will be 
issued. Sign up for one session on UC Learning.
1:30pm
2018 PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH 
DAY - MEDICAL EDUCATION AND 
TELEMEDICINE BUILDING, LOWER AUDOTORIUM
Public Health Research Day introduces campus 
and community attendees to current, 
multidisciplinary public health research on a 
variety of topics, through engaging 
Presentations and a research Poster Session.
3pm
E.S. COLLOQUIUM - GREGORIO 
GONZALES - PLAYING LLANEROS - SOCIAL SCIENCES BUILDING, ROOM 107
Despite a sustained interest in the formation of 
Genizaro identity in northern New Mexico during 
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, little 
has been done to address its collective persistence and maintenance today. Whether serving as the corporeal buffer zones between Native and colonial nodes of power as Indigenous slaves, settlers, or military scouts, Genizaros continue to be recognized for their historical presences and current absences. Yet nestled in the Rio Chama and Taos valleys of northern New Mexico, individuals, families, and communities maintain Genizaro identity as a continued experience. Dr. Gregorio Gonzales is Genizaro and a 2017-2018 University of California Presidents Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Anthropology at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Contact: c3mendez@ucsd.edu
5pm
UCSD JSA X NSU MATSURI 2018 - 
LIBRARY WALK
UC San Diego's Japanese Student Association 
and Nikkei Student Union proudly present: THE 10TH ANNUAL JSA X NSU MATSURI FESTIVAL 2018! UCSDs Matsuri is guaranteed to entertain people of all ages. Admission is not only open to UCSD students but to the general public so please come out and join us! There will be many Japanese foods, games, performances, and activities to bring you a traditional Japanese Matsuri festival right here in San Diego. Invite your friends and family to experience this Japanese cultural festival together! TICKET PRICES: $1 for food tickets, $0.50 for game ticketS. Contact: ucsdmatsuri@gmail.comTUE4.03
THU4.058pm
MUIR MUSICAL PRESENTS “ JESUS 
CHRIST SUPERSTAR” - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Muir Musical is the largest and only completely 
student-directed and produced musical theater event on campus. Performances will be held at 8 p.m. on April 7–8 and 12–14, with a special matinee performance at 2 p.m. on April 8, in Mandeville Auditorium. Tickets are available in person or online through the UC San Diego Box office. Free tickets are available for the first 400 students of each showing. “Jesus Christ Superstar” was first released as a vinyl record in 1970 and appeared on Broadway in 1971, where it was an instant hit. Combining rock music of the 1970s and contemporary attitudes with biblical figures, “Jesus Christ Superstar” is a musical examining the political and interpersonal relationships between Jesus and his disciples. Launched in 1991 by Muir sophomore, Orrin Webber, Muir Musical was created as an outlet for students interested in musical theater who are not necessarily theater majors. Except for one single-year hiatus, the Muir Musical has put on a full-scale Broadway musical production every year since its inception. Past productions have included Legally Blonde: The Musical, Rent, In the Heights and more.SAT4.07MON4.02
3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BEAR GARDEN - 
‘90S EDITION - MATTHEWS QUAD
Miss the good ol' days of Fruit Stripe gum, VHS 
tapes, and MASH? Us too. Join us at our '90s themed Bear Garden on April 6th! (Fun) Dip into spring quarter and reminisce your childhood with an afternoon full of FREE food, carnival games, and prizes. FREE for UCSD undergraduates of ALL AGES with valid Student ID. Must be 21+ with valid government-issued ID to drink.Contact: ascemarketing@ucsd.edu12pm
BENOIT CHALLAND: YEMEN 
AFTER THE ARAB SPRING - 
GALBRAITH CONFERENCE ROOM, 
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE 
4025
The presentation offers an overview of the work 
carried out by the Yemeni National Dialogue Conference (2013–2014), and which proposed the creation of a federal state with more open inclusive political order to soothe decades of internal tensions, north (Huthi) and south (separatist movement). It offers a “law and/in society” perspective on earlier attempts to propose decentralized mechanisms of governance in contemporary Yemeni history.
3pm
REV’D! - REVELLE COLLEGE ADMIN 
BUILDING RM 114, CONF RM EAST
Provost Yu invites Revelle Students, Faculty, 
Alumni, and staff to drop in Mondays 3-4pm, Revelle Admin Bldg/Advising Bldg for REV’d - 
Revelle Engages in Verve Development! Light 
refreshments. Refresh! Rejuvinate! Get REV’d!
7pm
MONDAY NIGHT JAZZ: 95JC JAZZ 
ENSEMBLES - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety, and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provideducenmarketing@ucsd.edu
9pm
ON UCSD- TV TONIGHT: FREE 
SPEECH AND THE UNIVERSITY: 
HISTORICAL ROOTS AND 
CURRENT CHALLENGES - 
UCSD- TV
Erwin Chemerinsky, one of the country’s 
preeminent constitutional scholars and dean of the University of California, Berkeley’s law school, looks at the intersection of the First Amendment and higher education in this talk sponsored by Student Affairs, the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination, and the Law and Society Program at UC San Diego. FRI4.06WED4.04MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM 8PM ·
12pm
GEH BROWNBAG SERIES: 
SHANVI—INNOVATIVE DEVICE FOR WOMEN’S SAFETY - SKAGGS 
PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES BUILDING 1186
Prof. Debashis Sahoo is one of 21 semi-finalists 
in the $1 million Anu & Naveen Jain Women’s Safety XPRIZE, which challenges competitors 
around the world to develop technological 
solutions to improve women’s safety in instances 
of violence or harassment. According to the competition rules, the winning device must be 
able to autonomously and inconspicuously trigger 
an emergency alert and transmit information to a 
network of community responders—all within 90 seconds and a cost of $40 or less. Sahoo and 
Pandey submitted a proposal for a wireless 
communication device they call Shanvi, a Hindi 
name for Parvati, the goddess of fertility, love, devotion, divine strength and power. Powered by 
body movements, Shanvi is always charged and 
doesn’t require batteries. The device is designed 
to be worn discreetly near the ear, as an earplug or earring. If Shanvi senses a specific change in a woman’s breathing pattern, it immediately alerts a smartphone app that can be used by anyone in the woman’s life—family member, friend or 
anyone willing to be part of her response network.
11pm
GRUNION RUNS WITH BIRCH 
AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS - BIRCH 
AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Get ready for a true Southern California 
experience! Watch hundreds of small silver fish called grunion ride the waves onto La Jolla beaches to spawn. Our naturalists will highlight the fascinating lives of these mysterious fish, help you hatch grunion eggs before your eyes, and then lead you to the beach to search for grunion in the wild. Prepare for cool, wet conditions and bring a flashlight. Minors must attend with a paid adult, recommended for ages 6+.
**IMPORTANT DATES** 
4/4: Referendum Debate*
Noon | PC Plaza
4/5: Vice Presidential Debate*
Noon | PC Plaza
4/6: Presidential Debate*
Noon | PC Plaza
4/6: Voting Ends
4pm | Polls close.
4/6: A.S. Election 2018 Results
6:30pm | Round Table Pizza
Come join us and celebrate the 
winners of the 2018 A.S. Elections.4/9: Voting Begins
10am | Library Walk and Tritonlink.
Polls not on Library Walk are NOT official 
polls. Ballots are also found on Tritonlink.TRITONLINK.UCSD.EDUVOTE ON TRITONLINK
April 9 -13th
More info at as.ucsd.edu/elections or
Contact aselections@ucsd.edu
AS.UCSD.EDU/ELECTIONSA.S. Elections 2018:
*Attend the debates to partake in the Opportunity Drawings! 
Each debate provides each attendee with the opportunity to 
win a pair of movie tickets. Attend more than one debate in 
their entirety to have the opportunity to win a 
[shoes/Foot Locker gift certificate].Ready, set, VOTE! The 2018 A.S. Elections are here
Be active in electing your A.S. Council and determiningthe referenda that will affect our campus. 
Don’t fall behind, your voice matters.
REFERENDA ON THE BALLOT:
Student Transportation Fee ReferendumCALPIRG Referendum
GSA Activity Fee Referendum14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Automobiles
5. Requisite9. Bed supports
14. Adjoin
15. Icicle’s spot
16. Reef material17. Mexican coin18. Enlarged
19. Fat
20. Footstools
22. Make23. Palm fruit24. Spanish cheer
25. Tennis unit
26. Hush!
29. Military warning (2 wds.)32. For both sexes34. Beach
38. Imitator
39. Scallion
41. Object of adoration42. Got worse again44. Saturate45. Germs49. Apt. divisions50. Tiny insect53. “Viva ____ Vegas”54. Remnants56. Mob scene participant58. Meetings62. Earn63. Artist Salvador ____64. MGM’s symbol65. Group of eight66. Matured67. Informed of68. Actress Della ____69. Fashioned70. DistortDOWN
 1. Guitarist’s aid2. Egg on3. Corrosion
4. Tolerated
5. Nullify
6. Worked for7. Nights before holidays8. Dawn dampness
9. Point winners
10. Ear part
11. Locales12. A sense13. Winter forecast
21. Deface
22. Immaculate
24. Butter’s rival26. Injury memento27. Wish
28. Loaf end
30. In reserve
31. That’s opposite33. Lackluster35. Stench36. Ramble37. Caribous’ kin39. Movie award40. Seines43. Artist’s board46. Teetered47. Interior48. Paid notices50. Protective gear51. Sister’s daughter52. Rich cake55. Farm towers57. Neckwear items58. Heroic narrative59. Pig’s sound60. Short letter61. TV static63. Beaver constructionHOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - 
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments 
community in San Diego offers pet-friendly 
one and two bedroom apartment homes with comfortable, spacious, and bright 
open floor plans.Our community features 
a large sparkling swimming pool, beauti -
ful courtyards, BBQ areas, free reserved 
parking, on-site laundry facility, on-site 
management, 24 hour emergency mainte -
nance, WiFi hotspots available in common 
areas through Cox Communications......ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 - 
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, 
CA 92115. These floor plans include spa -
cious one, two and three bedrooms, some 
poolside or upgraded. Being located in 
the heart of the college area you will find 
shopping centers, banks, a library, schools, 
freeways and more. Enjoy amenities such as 
a refreshing Olympic sized swimming pool, 24 hour emergency maintenance, on-site 
laundry facilities, WIFI hotspots in the com -
mon areas through Cox Communications, 
a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, 
and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE 
assigned parking, a refreshing pool and BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emer -gency maintenance, and a courtyard foun -
tain. We hope you will call or stop by and 
we look forward to making The Diplomat 
your new home!....ucsdguardian.org/clas-
sifieds for more information
PART TIME JOBS
Accounting clerk. BalaCent LLP . Carlsbad, 
CA 92011. Data enter Accounts Payable and 
reconcile credit cards. 8 hours per week. 
Prefer Accounting Student. If candidate 
shows promise more hours may be pos-
sible. Flexible hours to fit student’s sched-
ule.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Part Time Recreational Gymnastics Coaches. 
Emerald City Academy of Rhythmic 
Gymnastics. San Diego, CA 92131. Looking 
for that special person with an upbeat, energetic personality. Enthusiasm required! 
The ideal candidate has gymnastics experi -
ence, loves children, and has a flexible schedule. Coaching experience preferred 
but we will train the right person. Must 
enjoy working in an environment with 
children and parents and be able to com -
municate with both.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Independent Medical Sales Rep (1099). 
Script Relief. San Diego, CA 92101 USA. We’re looking for enthusiastic sales reps to 
go to doctors’ offices and leave behind kits of these cards at the reception desk and 
other accessible areas. In order to facilitate the process for our reps, our sales team 
uses a special website that provides list -ings of available doctors in your area. We 
will also provide training to acclimate you 
to the whole business.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Used 2006 Mazda Mazda6 Grand Sport 
i. San Diego, CA 92111. The impressive 
Mazda fuel-efficiency will make you quickly 
realize what youve been missing out on 
in life. Its noteworthy fuel economy and minimal emissions make this vehicles value 
a cut above the rest. In addition to being 
well-cared for, this Mazda Mazda6 has very 
low mileage making it a rare find....ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, 
CA 92110. 4D Crew Cab, Some rebates may require you to finance through our 
preferred lender, Price includes: $1,000 - 
General Motors Consumer Cash Program. 
Exp. 01/31/2018, $1,000 - Silverado 
Incremental Consumer Cash....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Toyota RAV4 for sale. San Diego, 
CA 92115. Black 2015 Toyota RAV4 LE FWD six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i 120 Point Inspection & Full Detail Performed, 
Gas $aver, Brakes Serviced, Bluetooth, RAV4 LE, 4D Sport Utility, 2.5L four Cyl 
DUAL OVERHEAD CAM Dual VVT-i, six Gear 
Automatic, FWD, Black, Gray Cloth.Clean 
CARFAX, Clear title, ASE Certified Complete 
Inspection. Recent Arrival!...ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
W Tennis
Softball
Baseball
M Volleyball4/4
4/54/64/64/62:30 PM
3 PM
1 & 3 PM
6 PM7 PMvs. Concordiavs. Point Lomaat. Cal State San Bernardinoat. Chico Statevs. Long Beach State
UC San Diego vs. Cal State East 
Bay—La Jolla, CA
Coming o ff a series split (2-2) to Cal 
State Monterey Bay earlier in the week, 
the UC San Diego baseball team looked 
to improve its 12-8 CCAA (California 
Collegiate Athletic Association) record by sweeping a four game series from Cal State East Bay (CSUEB) at Triton Ballpark Thursday, March 29 through 
Sunday, March 31. 
Game 1
The first game of the series resulted 
in an absolute slugfest from the good 
guys. UCSD scored at least 3 runs in 
all 9 innings with an exception of just two. That said, the Tritons outhit and 
outscored CSUEB with no question 16 to 7 and 25 to 2, respectively. 
The Tritons wasted no time in 
jumping on the board early, giving a sneak peak of what was to come later on. Senior starting pitcher, Jack Rupe Jr. tossed a stellar one, two, three first 
inning forcing pop up a fter pop up. 
In the bottom half of the first, UCSD 
scored three runs o ff of two hits and 
one error. An inning later, the Tritons tallied 4 more runs. 
The game got out of hand for the 
Pioneers in the sixth inning when UCSD hit back-to-back-to-back homeruns. With the bases juiced, junior first basemen Tyler Durna 
blasted a grand slam over the center field fence. Moments later, redshirt 
junior out fielder Zander Clarke 
homered to le ft and to add the cherry 
on top, redshirt junior third basemen, Alex Eliopulos took one deep to right field. In five hits, the Tritons scored 8 
runs.
The Pioneers would answer back 
in the top of the second as well as the ninth but not nearly enough to gain any momentum. Rupe Jr. picked up 
his first win of the season in 6 innings 
pitched, allowing just 1 earned run on 
4 hits and 7 strikeouts.
Durna finished 2 for 3 with a team 
high of 8 RBI’s (runs batted in). Clarke followed closely behind with 5 RBI’s on a 2 for 4 showing. In addition, redshirt sophomore utility, Keenan Brigman and Eliopulos both collected 3 RBI’s 
apiece to secure the blowout victory. 
Game 2 
UCSD walked away with a win in 
a 7-6 nail-biter in game two. CSUEB struck first scoring 6 runs before the 
Tritons even pushed 1. 
The sixth inning seemed lucky 
all weekend as UCSD punched back, 
answering 6 runs in a row. Whitcomb worked his way on as a leado ff, sparking 
the rest of his o ffense. Brigman turned 
on one, punching a double down the left field line scoring one and Beck 
poked another through the right side to pick up two RBI’s. Redshirt freshman out fielder, Brandon Stewart 
blasted a triple to score two more and evened the score at 6. 
After a Durna double and an 
Eliopulos four pitch walk in the seventh, Brigman scored the winning run on an in field single to the shortstop. 
UCSD led in all categories including 
runs, hits and errors. Redshirt freshman pitcher, Antonio Barrios obtained the win, coming in relief for junior starting pitcher, Preston Mott. Barrios pitched three innings permitting 1 hit, 1 run, and struck out 5.
Game 3
Game three of the weekend 
displayed just how humbling the game of baseball can be. The Tritons 
lost 6-1 in a complete opposite hitting performance from the day prior. UCSD’s lone run of the game came 
in the bottom of the sixth inning as Durna reached on a fielding error by 
the shortstop. A base hit up the middle from Clarke advanced Durna to third and Eliopulos came up clutch doubling down the line to the right side to score Durna. 
The Tritons recorded only 5 hits, 2 
of which came from Clarke. Freshman shortstop, Shay Whitcomb picked up another, as well as senior second baseman Justin Beck. As a team, UCSD left 7 runners on base. 
CSUEB scored 2 runs in the top of 
the second and cushioned their lead with 3 more in the sixth. Unfortunately, junior starting pitcher, Kyle Lucke, 
received little support from the Triton 
offense, dropping to a 0 and 2 record 
on the year. 
Game 4
The Tritons wrapped up the 
weekend in a similar fashion to how they started. Again putting up a crooked number in the first inning, 
UCSD continued to feed o ff the early 
run production.  
3 consecutive free passes, 2 walks 
and a hit-by-pitch, started a rally in the bottom of the second for UCSD. With runners on, the Tritons put the ball hard on the ground, obligating CSUEB’s defense to make plays. On a 0 balls and 1 strike count, utility redshirt sophomore Steven Schuknecht executed with a triple down the right field line accumulating 3 RBI’s. 
CSUEB experimented with 5 
different pitchers all of which were 
no challenge for UCSD. The Tritons 
scored 2 more runs in the 8th on two big hits to bu ffer the advantage to 10 
runs.  
Junior starting pitcher, Jonah 
Dipoto gathered his second win of the year pushing his record even at 2 and 2. In 4 innings pitched, Dipoto gave up 3 hits, struck out 2 with 0 walks and 
0 hit by pitch. Triton relievers, senior 
Mitch Hickey and sophomore Ted Stuka successful held the Pioneers to a minimum. 
The Tritons would go on to win 
game four, 11-1 as well as the entire series 3-1. UCSD’s record moves to 19-10 overall and 15-9 in the CCAA, positioning the team in second place 
in the South Division behind Cal Poly 
Pomona. baseball
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSTritons Win 
Series Over 
Cal State East 
Bay
UCSD improves their season 
record to 19-10 and trails Cal 
Poly Pomona in the CCAA 
South Division.
Over the past week, the UC San 
Diego Men’s tennis team played a 
match on Wednesday and Thursday, 
faced o ff against University of Hawaii 
at Hilo and Middlebury College, respectively. Despite resilient e fforts 
in both matches, the Tritons fell 
short in both their outings: losing 
4–5 against Hawaii Hilo and 3–6 against Middlebury.
Hawaii Hilo (3/28/18)
The match began with doubles. 
The Tritons came out with a strong 
start, winning two of the first three 
matches and taking an early 2–1 advantage. Though the first doubles 
team, comprised of sophomores Marc Isaia and Sreeganesh Manoharan, dropped its first game, 
the UCSD second and third doubles teams were able to pick up a win. 
The number three doubles team 
— freshmen Eskil Jarlskog and 
Neil Tengbumroong — defeated opponents Peter Martin and Timo 
van der Geest in a close 8–5 game. 
However, in singles, the Tritons were unable to hold onto their lead. Of the six singles games, UCSD only 
managed to win two. Overall, UCSD 
fell short by one game, losing the match 5–4.
Middlebury (3/29/18)
The Tritons were unable to shake 
off their disappointing match against 
Hawaii Hilo the day before, dropping 3–6 against Middlebury. Much like before, the Tritons handled business 
in doubles play, winning two out of 
three games to get a 2–1 advantage. UCSD’s struggles in singles play, however, persisted. Of all the sets, 
Middlebury outscored the Tritons 
by 17 points. Only one UCSD player, Tengbumroong, out of six singles players, managed to win his game. UCSD fell short due to its singles 
play for the second time this week. 
The final result of the match was 6–3.
Next week, on Tuesday, the team 
plays Concordia University at home. 
Opening serve is at 2:30 p.m. at 
Northview Tennis Courts.Not Enough for the Win
Tritons lose against Hawaii-Hilo and Middlebury.
BYWesley Xiao
Staff writeR
UC San Diego’s 2017–2018 
basketball season has ended, and the women’s basketball team concludes 
one of its best seasons to date. The 
Tritons dominated the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association regular season, finishing with a 
21–1 record. The sole loss came 
from California State University, Stanislaus on Jan. 18, snapping the 11-game win-streak the Tritons held. UCSD went on to close out the 
regular season with 10 consecutive 
wins.
The Tritons fought valiantly in 
the postseason but ultimately fell 
short. They defeated Stanislaus 
State in the quarter finals (69–52) 
and California State University, 
Chico in the semi finals (67–48). 
However, in a game that came down 
to the wire, the Humboldt State 
Lumberjacks eked out a 75–76 win over the Tritons to secure the CCAA Tournament title. 
The Tritons were given a chance 
to compete in the NCAA West Regional Tournament in the Felix Event Center located in Azusa, CA. In the quarter finals, junior guard 
Kayla Sato went o ff for a career-high 
28 points to give UCSD a victory 
over Seattle Paci fic University (64–
51). Unfortunately, UCSD failed 
to advance past the semi finals, 
losing to Montana State University, 
Billings, 73–75.
For the third-straight year, 
Coach Heidi V anDerveer was 
named CCAA Coach of the Year. 
The Women’s Basketball Coaches 
Association also named her Division II Region 8 Coach of the Y ear. VanDerveer has led the Tritons to a 
77–17 record in the past three years, 
a noteworthy feat.
In her final year with the Tritons, 
senior forward Dalayna Sampton had an outstanding season. Her 
performance earned her a number 
of accolades: 2017–2018 CCAA Player of the Y ear, WBCA All-America Honorable Mention honors, Division II Conference 
Commissioners Association All-
West Region First Team, and NCAA Division II West Region All-Tournament First Team. Sampton averaged a double-double for the season, scoring 14.6 points per game and grabbing 10.9 rebounds per game. 
Sophomore forward Mikayla 
Williams was named to the D2CCA All-West Region second team. 
Eight Tritons were named to the 
CCAA Winter All-Academic Team — eligibility requires that a student-athlete hold at least a 3.3 cumulative GPA and be of sophomore athletic 
standing or higher. The eight athletes 
are as follows: junior forward 
Shandiin Armao, senior guard Paige Song, senior guard Taylor Tanita, 
sophomore forward Kristen Vrcelj, 
Williams, and junior guard Joleen Yang .
The UCSD women’s basketball 
team now heads into the o ffseason, 
riding a successful season. End of Season Recap: W. Basketball
UCSD looks to come back even stronger after a great 2017-18 season.Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduBY Madeline  Lewis
Staff Writer
BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports Editor
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 2, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Full Guardian
the
Whatever happened to newspapers ?