Students in the UC San Diego chapter of the 
California Public Interest Research Group 
held a small press event on Tuesday, Nov. 20, 
highlighting the necessity of bees in cultivating many 
food products. Holding the event during the weekly 
farmers’ market in Matthews Quad just two days before 
Thanksgiving, the group hoped to bring attention to the crisis of large populations of bees dying off to 
both students and farmers. The event is a part of 
CALPIRG’s statewide campaign to ban neonicotinoid-based pesticides. 
CALPIRG set up a table near the Triton statue, 
displaying what a Thanksgiving dinner would look 
like without food products that are dependant on 
pollination. The only foods on the table were meats and bread, and several empty plates were on display.
Emma Y oungquist, CALPIRG’s media intern for the 
Save the Bees campaign, explained the organization’s tactic to the UCSD Guardian.
“With Thanksgiving coming up, people are real 
excited to be going home, but a lot of them don’t really think about the things they kind of take for granted 
like pumpkin pie or brussel sprouts or cranberries, ” 
Y oungquist said. “Without pollinators, most of our Thanksgiving table would just be meat and bread. ”
The Environmental Protection Agency cites a 
number of factors in colony collapse, such as invasive mites, poor nutrition or environmental stressors on 
bees. Y oungquist noted that while there are a number of 
different reasons attributed to major colony collapse, the campaign’s main focus is on the use of neonicotinoids, 
or nicotine-based pesticides. 
“Neonics are a nicotine-based pesticide that is still 
being used in the state of California, even though it’s already been banned in the [European Union], ” 
Y oungquist said. “They’re really harmful to bees. They 
are shown to lower [bees’] reproductive rates and induce 
paralysis and death of insects. ”
The California Department of Pesticide Regulation, a 
board and department of the California Environmental Protection Agency, began refocusing its evaluations in 2009 to determine the effects of certain neonicotinoid 
pesticides on essential pollinators, such as bees. 
In January, the department announced that it 
would no longer consider any applications by pesticide companies that would expand the use of neonicotinoid 
pesticides in the state.
According to CDPR, there are more than 2.5 million 
honey bee colonies in the U.S. that pollinate an estimated $15 billion of crops each year. Approximately 1.8 million 
of those colonies are used each year in California to 
pollinate the state’s almond crop alone.
The European Union banned the use neonicotinoid 
pesticides back in April of this year. Bayer, a multinational pharmaceutical and life sciences company, released a statement in response, condemning the move. 
Bayer’s statement reads, “[Bees] are essential for 
the pollination of many arable crops. But there are other, better ways to support pollinator health — such 
as increasing pollinator foraging options or natural 
habitats and more efficient control of the varroa mite — than banning substances that have helped farmers 
effectively manage a broad range of significant pests. ”
When asked if there were suitable alternatives to 
nicotine-based pesticides, Y oungquist stated that there is more research being done but that banning the use 
of neonicotinoids was the more urgent course of action.
“Bees are dying off at alarming rates, ” Y oungquist 
For this Thanksgiving, UC San 
Diego’s Associated Students Council partnered with rideshare app Lyft 
to offer discounted rides to students 
staying on campus for the holiday. This move was in response to Housing 
Dining Hospitality closures and a 
discontinuation of its grocery bag program. All HDH markets offered a holiday 
sale on specific items from Nov. 19 to 
Nov. 21. More than 20 items of food 
and beverage were marked down as much as 40 to 60 percent off. Popular 
items such as noodle bowls, eggs, and 
gallons of water were included on the holiday on-sale list for students to 
stock up. 
From Thursday to Saturday for 
Thanksgiving break, however, all HDH markets and dining halls were 
closed except for The Village Market, 
which remained opened on Saturday. 
A.S. President Kiara Gomez told 
the UCSD Guardian that this was a cause of concern for her.
“The reasoning for [HDH] deciding 
to discontinue those grocery bags were due to a lack of students purchasing 
the grocery bag and a lack of staff VOLUME 52, ISSUE 9  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 26, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC Regents Approve 
New Budget, Plan to Increase Admissions
The UC Board of Regents is also 
aiming to prevent another tuition 
increase by lobbying the state for funds.
CAMPUS
BY  Abigail  Staggemeier
staff Writer
A.S. Council Offered Discount Lyft Codes For Thanksgiving Holiday
An inflatable Sun God looms over Hullabaloo 2018 in Matthews Quad.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Mckenna JohnsonThe UC Board of Regents 
approved a budget of $9.3 billion to 
increase undergraduate admittance 
by 2,500 in the upcoming year at 
its bi-monthly meeting on Nov. 15. The budget is part of a four-year plan to provide increased need-
based financial support for students, 
increase enrollment, and improve on-campus facilities. 
 The UC administration aims 
to award an additional 200,000 
undergraduate degrees by 2030. 
Currently, roughly two-thirds of all UC undergraduate students complete their studies within four years, 
though the goal is to increase the 
number to 76 percent by 2030. 
UC Regents discussed other 
issues, such as college accessibility. Both UCLA and and UC Berkeley 
have nearly reached their maximum 
capacities at 44,947 and 41,910 students respectively, though UC Riverside and UC Merced still have 
the capacity to grow. 
Enrollment increases at UC 
Merced, in particular, are salient to UC enrollment rates across the 
board, as the campus has the greatest number of first-generation and low-income students of all UC campuses. 
In addition to increasing the 
overall budget, UC representatives also plan to lobby the state legislature to allow students to apply Cal Grants toward summer courses to allow 
students to graduate on time, if not 
earlier. Increased rates of four-year degree achievements are hoped to stimulate career developments while increasing available space for 
incoming undergraduates. 
Sources at education industry 
analysis group Education Dive 
have reported that the budget plan 
included a request for $277.6 million 
in state funding — roughly one quarter of which would be allotted to fight tuition hikes. 
The new budget plan coincides 
with California Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom’s aspirations for improved state education. While hosting a campaign rally at Sacramento State University, Newsom stated his 
objective of  creating a “new energy 
around higher education” . 
Newsom has denounced tuition 
increases in higher education, even 
going so far as to propose a ‘Cradle 
to Career’ education pledge in which two years of tuition-free community college will be available to California students. 
The UC Regents’ support for 
the proposed budget plan increased By Tyler FAURot   news EditorCAMPUS
CALPIRG Hosts Event to Raise Awareness on Mass Bee DeathsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
IHC members volunteer 
to build clinics in 
Tijuana to strive toward 
creating a community 
that has long-term and 
sustainable access to 
healthcare.
GENERAL EDUCATION
BUSTER  SCRUGGSHINDERING  SPEEDY  GRADUA TION
WESTERN  ANTHOLOGYOpinion,  Page   4
A&E,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “The fact that 
students need to 
be peer pressured, 
begged, and hand-
held through the 
voting process to 
even consider voting 
proves that voting is 
not a priority among 
the college student 
population.”MONDAY
 H 71 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 60
TUESDAY
H 70 L 56
THURSDAY
H 63 L 58
VOTING...........................4
THE GRINCH..................9
EASY TV.........................11
HOLIDAY HORRORS ....12
W. SOCCER...................15UC SYSTEM
Suzanne Golshanara
 PAGE 4The Lyft codes came as a response to the end of Housing, Dining, and Hospitality’s grocery bag program.
BY  Zhuoying  Lin
contributing writer
See LYFT,  page 3 See BUDGET,  page 3See CALPIRG,  page 3HEALTHCARE
COLLECTIVE
Features, page 62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
WAYS TO FOLD By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Michelle, socks can’t protect my heart.  ;( 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Friday, November 16
12:33 a.m. Noise DisturbanceLoud laughing Quiet on Arrival2:55 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Adult male heavily intoxicated, semi ‐conscious 
and breathing 
Transported To Hospital10:40 a.m. Lost PropertyReport of lost passport Service Provided6:42 p.m. InformationOne hour prior, male left hospital before he was discharged with IV in his arm 
Information Only
7:09 p.m. Marijuana ContactFour subjects smoking marijuana Gone On Arrival9:23 p.m. Attempted Petty Theft - BicycleReporting party observed male suspect cutting U-lock off of a bicycle, suspect ran off when confronted by RP Report Taken
9:35 p.m. Petty Theft
Unattended wallet stolen from table, loss $100 Online Report10:25 p.m. Suspicious PersonReporting parties caught known non-affiliate male leering at them through the open window of their apartment Stay Away Order Issued
Monday, November 12
3:23 p.m. Information OnlyRecently-fired employee made suicidal threats to his boss, subject resides off-campus Referred To Other Agency ‐ San Diego Police 
Department4:57 p.m. Lost PropertyReport of lost foreign passport Information Only
5:40 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Loss $370 Report Taken9:31 p.m. Suspicious PersonNon-affiliate adult male contacted, after a report of a suspicious male looking into office and trying office door handles Stay Away Order Issued
10:16 p.m. Information
San Diego Police Department received report of a bright light blinking, possibly someone trying to send an S.O.S signal, SDPD was advised that signal is part of new art piece in Revelle CollegeInformation Only11:06 p.m. Medical AidYoung female adult possibly having an asthma attack, experiencing chest pains and having 
trouble breathing 
Transported To Hospital
Tuesday, November 13
2:32 p.m. DisturbanceMale subject screaming in Police Department lobby Checks OK10:15 p.m. Warrant Arrest
Outside Agency Warrant 
Misdemeanor10:40 p.m. Medical Aid19-year-old female having hot and cold flashes and feeling like she is going to faintTransported to Hospital
Wednesday, Nove mbe r 14
6:25 a.m. Suspicion Person
Adult male trying to get into a building without an ID Unable to Locate7:34 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Original call for welfare check of young adult male sitting on bench, rocking back and forth, male did not respond to reporting party when asked if he was OK Transported To Hospital
8:18 a.m. Person Down
Adult male sleeping in vehicle with expired tags 
and a suspended license Vehicle Impounded9:41 a.m. Medical Aid  
Young adult male fainted 
Transported To Hospital
4:11 p.m. Domestic Violence Incident
Non-affiliate couple seen pushing each other before boarding a city bus Stay Away Order Issued (x2)
7:30 p.m. Suspicious Person
Unknown male hiding under stairwell for 30 minutes Checks OK9:13 p.m. Suspicious Person
Subject was making offensive sexual comments 
while friend filmed people’s reactions Checks OK10:18 p.m. Fire
Metal container on fire at very end of dirt 
parking lot, adult male cited for unlawful fire Citation Issued
Thursday, November 15
1:00 a.m. Burglary
Unknown suspect(s) entered victim’s apartment and stole several items, loss $2100 Report Taken
3:19 a.m. Unknown Trouble
Intoxicated female contacted after report of female yelling for help in area of baseball field, subject released to sober friendService Provided
10:51 p.m. Unknown Trouble
Reporting party was on the phone with friend in Berkeley, CA, friend started screaming and reporting party is now unable to reach her 
Referred to Other Agency ‐ Berkeley Police 
Department
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edulike  us  on  
faceb o o k
@ucsdguardianNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
CALPIRG to Meet with Assemblyman T odd Gloria Gomez: I Hope to Explore Options for Students Staying on Campus During Breaks
Funds Will Also Help With Necessary Maintenance▶ CALPIRG , from page 1 ▶ LYFT , from page 1
▶ BUDGET , from page 1said. “Beekeepers are reporting that up 
to 40 percent of their colonies are dying 
each year. [Bees] pollinate everything 
from almonds to strawberries to chocolate, so this is a pretty big deal. 
No bees means huge food insecurity 
issues. ” 
“We’ve already gathered 11,000 
signatures statewide, each campus is running this campaign, ” Y oungquist 
told the Guardian. “[In our] last 
campaign for SB100 that committed 
California to 100-percent clean 
energy, we got over 20,000 signatures statewide, and that was signed into 
law, which is huge. Getting close to 
that number would show that a lot of people are interested. ” 
Sophie Haddad, statewide chair for 
CALPIRG told the Guardian that the response from students and vendors to 
the event was positive and garnished 
significant support for the cause.
“Our next tactic is getting professors 
to sign on in support — we have some of the best researchers at this university, ” Haddad told the Guardian. “Some of them even study pollinator decline. They know how important 
it is to ban pesticides that kill the 
bees. Getting their support gives our campaign extra grasstops credibility. ”
Haddad also urged people to 
contact their representatives in state legislature to bring up their concerns 
on the issue. 
“The more our legislators hear 
that this is an issue their constituents 
care about, the more likely they are to 
prioritize it, ” Haddad said.
“We have the people power and 
grassroots support, so I think we can make that happen, ” Y oungquist said.
CALPIRG is planning to meet 
Assembly Member Todd Gloria in Week 10 to urge him to take legislative 
action against the use of neonicotinoids. Gloria is a noted environmentalist who 
co-signed SB100, the clean energy bill 
that CALPIRG rallied for.
tyler  faurot  news@ucsdguardian.edu
Abigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.eduafter administrators from UC 
Berkeley and UC Davis described the need for funds to repair outdated 
electrical systems, leaking roofs, 
and architectural flaws that could prove dangerous in the event of an earthquake. 
The Los Angeles Times has 
reported that the new budget has adjusted funding for enrollment growth to 86.3 million, increased academic support to $60 million, and administrative staff and faculty raises to $137 million. Funding for 
construction and facility maintenance 
is set to increase to $115 million, while $119.8 million will be directed to faculty benefits, retirement 
packages, and similar costs. support to facilitate their creation for 
all campus markets, ” Gomez said. “While I understood the reasoning for 
not providing the bags, I thought it was 
unacceptable to leave students staying on campus with no alternatives. 
Therefore, when this information was 
shared with me, I shared my concern with my A.S. Advisor Heather Belk 
who shared the sentiment of needing 
to find an alternative for students. ”
Gomez explained that Belk and 
Patty Mahaffey, the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Student Life, had come 
up with the option of offering Lyft discounts to students left on campus.
“They did most of the negotiating 
for it after I came to them with the concern and the need for a solution. 
They are the ones who came up with 
the idea, ” Gomez told the Guardian. “While it was not the ideal solution, I was happy to see how seriously they took this concern and how quickly this option was negotiated. ” 
The limited discount codes were 
only available for the first 100 students and limited to two rides at $5 per 
redemption within three miles of 
UCSD’s campus. Students received the code and related information from 
their colleges via email prior to the 
Thanksgiving break. This offer was 
paid for by funds from the campus Basic Needs Initiative.
Throughout the year, UCSD 
Associated Students has partnered with Lyft to offer three free rides up 
to $10 per quarter to students. A Lyft 
account that is linked to a UCSD email address will receive a new promo code 
each quarter. Gomez elaborated that 
this holiday offer differs from the ongoing partnership with Lyft.“We weren’t expecting to have this 
service available, but I feel we were able to make it happen because of 
the existing partnership we do already 
have with Lyft. The funding for the holiday closure Lyft was not A.S. 
funding like A.S. Safe Rides is, ” Gomez 
explained. “With a short time frame to work with, this felt like an appropriate 
emergency solution. ”
“Moving forward, I hope to open 
conversations about this with HDH to 
find a more consistent and permanent 
alternative to food during holiday 
closures, ” Gomez said.
For more information about special 
Lyft codes, students can visit https://finance.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/Home. 
Zhuoying  Lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Voting is regarded as an American citizen’s civic 
duty. Consequently, those who vote are praised 
to the utmost degree while those who do not are 
considered a disgrace to their country. A great source of 
sorrow for many a political scientist is America’s low voter 
turnout, especially when compared to the turnout in other 
developed countries. Voter turnout is substantially lower among youth voters, with only 20 percent of eligible youth 
voters voting in midterm elections. Universities have 
responded accordingly during election season, installing 
clipboard wielding volunteers around campus to urge 
students to register to vote and direct them to the nearest voting station on Election Day. The fact that students need 
to be peer pressured, begged, and hand-held through the 
voting process to even consider voting proves that voting is not a priority among the college student population. 
While many may consider such apathy a great evil, college 
students are merely behaving rationally like economists. 
For a purely rational individual who makes decisions 
to maximize their own well-being, voting does not make sense. From a logistical standpoint, voting is a use of people’s limited time and resources that is just not worth it on an individual basis. According to economic research, 
the benefits of voting are not worth the effort it takes to 
register to vote, fully inform oneself on all the candidates and propositions, and go to a voting station since a single 
vote will almost never affect an election’s outcome. In 
fact, in their paper, “The Empirical Frequency of a Pivotal Vote,” economists Casey Mulligan and Charles Hunter analyzed election data from 1898 to 1989 and found it to be 
extremely rare for an election’s outcome to be decided by a 
single vote. Furthermore, elections that are extremely close are more likely to be subject to a recount or to be decided 
by the courts. Therefore, it makes sense that Americans are 
not going out in droves to vote each time election season 
comes around. 
The widespread failure to vote is a case of negative 
externalities, which are economic costs inflicted on society due to a consumer’s private decision. Economists 
R.D. Tollison and T.D. Willet found that individuals may 
very well benefit in the short run from not voting, but their behavior will indirectly harm society in the long run. Political scientists have come up with many ways to 
increase voter turnout, including making election days 
a national holiday and making voting more flexible by allowing it to take place over several days or a week. 
Currently, however, there are not sufficient incentives 
for most Americans to vote. Yet, if there were truly no incentives to vote, the voter turnout rate would be far 
lower than it is today. Several studies have found that a 
major motive for those Americans who do choose to vote 
is being able to boast about doing so. Thus, people can and 
should vote either if they are altruistic individuals who are concerned about the welfare of society as a whole or if 
they are self-interested individuals whose reputations may 
benefit from the act of voting. For everyone else, voting is illogical and a waste of their personal time and energy. 
American politics extols the virtues of those who vote 
but fails to see that it is completely reasonable for people not to vote given the current way the election process is 
set up. If you voted in the most recent midterm elections, 
you may have provided a service to your country, but did so at a disservice to yourself because that is the way the incentives are set up. Although it may be at the expense of 
the greater good, to all the selfish people of the world, the 
best advice is don’t vote. Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
It’s your favorite time of the quarter — 
registering for your next set of classes. 
Nothing compares to the frantic feeling 
of watching your classes quickly fill up, 
waiting anxiously for your enrollment 
time and panicking about your spot 
on the waitlist for that class you need to graduate. The courses 
you take are probably 
based on two things: your college’s general 
education requirements 
and credit limits. These are both pillars of academic life at 
UC San Diego, but they hinder the 
fast completion of an undergraduate degree and they unfairly divide the 
student body.
General education courses are 
designed by higher education institutions to provide a well-rounded education, outside of 
one’s specific degree path, and to prepare students for upper division courses by developing skills such 
as communication, writing, and time management. UCSD is 
no different — the general education requirements include the analytical writing program and the diversity, equity, and inclusion course. These 
courses count toward the credit limit the University has set across 
campus: anywhere between 200 and 240 units, depending on your major. However, it has become apparent that the use of general education and 
credit limits have far less than the student’s best interest in mind.
The split of the student body into six different colleges is meant to 
create personalized, intimate communities in which each student can thrive. There is, however, one key difference 
between colleges that serves as a driving 
wedge between the unification of the 
student body: different general education 
requirements. On top of the university-
wide general education requirements, 
each college mandates its own 
variously rigorous 
courses necessary for 
graduation. Multiple 
colleges are notorious 
for lengthy general 
education requirements: the 
five-course humanities sequence 
in Roger Revelle College or the 
five-course history sequence in 
Eleanor Roosevelt College, 
for example. Both ask students 
to take a hefty 25-30 units of 
general education courses, on 
t o p of the University’s requirements 
and their own degree programs. This difference 
shows in graduation statistics. Although UCSD does 
boast one of the best retention rates across the state, ERC 
and Revelle College are both in the running for the college with the highest dropout statistics, at only a 50-percent graduation rate, and it’s 
no wonder why. 
Many of the skills that are stated to be developed in these courses 
are retained either previously in high school or in later lower-division courses, regardless of one’s degree path. In addition, without extensive 
general requirements, universities would likely be able to maintain graduation rates in less than four years, similar to other European By: Rajee Ganesan // Contributing WriterHow General Education Delays 
Graduation and Divides the Campus
Suzanne  Golshanara   smgolsha@ucsd.eduDoes Every Vote Matter? 
Economists Say No
By: Suzanne Golshanara // Senior Sta ff WriterSee SUSTAINABILITY , page 5
“The fact that students need 
to be peer pressured, begged, 
and hand-held through 
the voting process to even 
consider voting proves 
that voting is not a priority 
among the college student 
population.” 
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduINTELLECTUAL SUCCULENTS  
By Leanne Chen
countries who manage to integrate bachelor’s degrees into a 
mere three years. However, it is not necessary to do away with 
general education requirements completely — they do offer 
various educational opportunities and introduce students to concepts that may have never appeared in their major courses. 
It is important to standardize general education courses across 
colleges to maintain a universal student experience, and it is equally important to reduce extensive general education 
requirements to provide the most concise and well-rounded 
experience possible. There is no reason for a writing sequence to be five courses when two of those courses can count 
toward a student’s degree program or taking electives they 
would like to explore. Instead of requiring extensive regional specializations, mandate the same general education program 
in all six colleges, offering students the same variety of classes 
with professional and post-undergraduate applications that require writing and fulfill the requirement, but also meet their 
respective career interests. 
These general education classes usually apply directly to 
your credit limitations- anywhere from 200 to 240 until you must go through a lengthy appeal process to enroll in more 
courses. Credit limitations, another factor in many students’ four year plans, are discreetly utilized by the university in order to maintain their four-year graduation rates, keeping 
our national and global rankings high as well as a factor in 
attracting potential freshmen. Graduation rates are a measure of accountability, highlighting the school’s ability to offer 
academic support to students effectively. In addition, they 
keep students from spending too much or too little time in University. Credit minimums allow the colleges to continue 
creating revenue and profit while developing the University 
infrastructure. 
However, credit limits push unfair expectations on 
extremely different majors. While engineering students are expected to go above and beyond 180 units and can max out at 240, anthropology majors struggle to find classes to 
fill that requirement, pushing them to take over 23 elective 
classes just in order to graduate. There are also several rules in place concerning credit limits that also inhibit freedom to 
explore different career paths. Undergraduate students must 
declare a major before completing 90 units, and they cannot change majors upon completion of 150. This prevents students 
in particularly demanding majors with a heavy focus in 
prerequisites from changing majors once completing upper-division classes related to their intended career paths. If the requirements on this campus for writing courses, regional 
specializations, and general education courses are to remain 
high, credit limits must expand, or exclude those credits utilized in general education courses, in order to accommodate 
one’s degree classes and electives he or she wishes to take.
Credit limitations hinder students from taking classes that 
they may desire and instead push them to either take classes that they don’t want to or necessarily need to take for their 
career paths. In the case of students in more intensive majors, credit limitations stop students from taking classes outside 
their degree program that they may be interested in due 
to a lack of credits after general education and their degree mandations. General education requirements push students in 
rigorous career paths to scramble to complete all the courses 
necessary, preventing them from taking electives that they may be personally interested in or have professional applications, 
and in turn enforce unfair credit limits to both humanities and 
science, technology and math majors.  ▶ SUSTAINABILITY ,  from page 4
Rajee  Ganesan  rganesan@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
SUSANTI  SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 
Among the numerous volunteer student organizations at UC 
San Diego, the International Health Collective, stands out 
as a student-run 501(c)(3) nonprofit. Members do various 
community service projects, primarily in the San Diego and Tijuana 
regions, as well as a satellite projects further down in Baja California Sur. 
Their longest running project is a monthly pop-up clinic in Tijuana.
Daryn Longman, a UCSD alum, is CEO and co-president of IHC. She 
mostly handles administration tasks such as organizing the meetings, social events, and most importantly, guiding and deciding the type of 
projects members will undertake.
“Right now we are applying for [Institutional Review Board] approval 
to perform research on a new clinic site that we’re moving into, so I was working with one of the project managers and directors of the community health workers program to 
look over what he’ d done with 
the form, and then develop the needs assessment — the 
questions that we’re going to 
ask the community members when we go in, ” Longman said.
IHC was founded in 2013, 
by two UCSD undergraduate students who were interested 
in starting an organization 
to provide free healthcare in 
Tijuana. 
“They were cold-calling 
doctors to come volunteer at the clinic they were organizing, ” Longman said, smiling. “They were lucky enough to call the person who became 
our faculty advisor, Weena Joshi, and she helped to develop the org, and she worked with the next president and incorporated IHC so they got 
nonprofit status. ”
Ashley Du, a first-year graduate student in the biology BS/MS 
program at UCSD, is the administrative director of the leadership board of IHC. She believes the members’ freedom to organize everything and 
make important decisions, yet have the guidance of a truly interested advisor, is a huge part of what makes IHC different.
“I’ve been involved for a little over a year now. I work with managing 
members and the background operations of making sure everything is working well. It’s hard to run a nonprofit so we have a lot of board members who keep things running smoothly, ” she explained. “Once the original presidents graduated, Weena Joshi stayed with the org, and it turned into her vision. That’s what I like about it — usually when you 
have an advisor, they’re not involved at all or involved to the minimum, 
but IHC is kind of like the very embodiment of the image she wanted it to be. But the IHC board is totally student-run and that makes it really 
unique, which is what Weena wanted. ” 
Du also thinks that long-term success is an important aspect to get 
right in volunteering.
“Our mission is very different from other student orgs; we want to 
make pop-up clinics in TJ, but our goal isn’t to be there every single 
month forever, our goal is to have clinics there but also train the people, 
for taking blood pressure and basic tech skills. ”
Members also try to get local doctors to join. Training community 
members to handle emergencies themselves allows for more efficient 
help. This way, IHC can make sure that one day each community will 
eventually be established enough 
that it can move to a different community with higher needs. One 
story IHC is very proud of is about 
a woman from the community of Tijuana who had helped connect 
them to her community and start 
the clinic. In return, IHC was able to 
pay her fees and send her to nursing 
school in Mexico. 
“Our first clinic site was a neighborhood in TJ called Villa Fontana, 
and we were connected there by a pastor, Saoul, and he set us up in a church, which was the original clinic site. Saoul and his wife Mari Chui would come and volunteer, and they helped set us up at that clinic site, ” 
Longman said. “They were two of the first community health workers 
we had in that town. His wife wanted to take it a step further and found nursing classes in TJ. We sponsored her, and she continued to volunteer as 
a community health worker with IHC until they moved to another town. ”
Once IHC built a pop-up clinic, and the area started to develop more, 
the organization moved to a more isolated, rural spot further from the border and did a new needs assessment in that community. “They helped 
us with the transition and showed us everything, ” Longman said.IHC members 
volunteer to build clinics in Tijuana to strive toward creating a community that has long-term and sustainable access to healthcare, gaining 
By Susanti Sarkar // Features Editor The 
Interna tional 
Heal th 
Collective: 
Crea ting 
Better  Access 
to  Heal thcare
SeeVOLUNTEERING , page 7
“I’ve also had really meaningful patient 
experiences, and it’s great feeling that I’ve 
made a difference in the community. I’ve had patients who came and gave me the biggest hug just because we were able to tell them that their heart was healthy or that they were fine, or providing emergency critical services, 
which weren’t available to them. ”
ILLUSTRATION BY SUSAN SUNFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
“My favorite project is the community health worker program. We train 
primarily local women in first aid and vitals, like blood pressure, heart rate 
and also things like blood glucose level using a glucometer, and we give 
them protocols like how to tell it’s too high, what they should do, what the emergency action is, ” she explained. “ And so they’re kind of the feet on the 
ground, the people who are there to provide continuity when we’re not there, 
because we only go to TJ once a month and to our satellite community only 
twice a year. ”
A large portion of the organization’s funding comes from membership 
dues ($20 per quarter) which goes toward clinic costs, transportation, and 
providing food at some of the events. They also have some consistent donors 
and are currently applying for grants.
Longman has also been involved in creating other crucial projects, such 
as the peer mentorship program in San Diego, which started in Clairemont High School and is now going to be in Hoover High School and Mar Vista High School. The program partners an IHC member (college student) with a 
high school student.
“It’s just sort of a mentor and guide program to help them [decide] 
whether they want to go to college, [how] to navigate FAFSA, and show them how it is possible. We were primarily focused on English language learners 
— people who were classified as not having English fluency, ” Longman said.
Du stressed the importance of this program in helping low-income or 
disadvantaged students especially. 
“Every two weeks, students go and mentor children of immigrants or 
people who don’t really understand the college process here, ” she explained. 
“It’s very different from other countries to be honest, so we focus on career 
development and one-on-one mentorship — on things that, if you’re not from [the U.S.], can be very hard to figure out on your own. ”Some of IHC’s projects are not based on health or medicine, such as the 
community gardens project.
“We are trying to start a community garden in neighborhoods in Tijuana 
because good  vegetables are really hard to find in that area, ” Du said. “We do food recovery projects — members will go dumpster diving or go to grocery 
stores and bring [the food and other supplies] to resource centers. ”
Their experiences working with IHC has helped both Longman and Du 
realize what they wanted to do in the future. Longman is currently applying 
to physician assistant school.
“I was a marine biology major, which was super fun. Even though I 
realized I wanted to go into healthcare, I never changed my major because I 
really loved studying it. Usually, [PA school applicants] are mostly physiology and neuroscience majors, so [IHC] definitely helped with giving me the extra 
experience, ” she said. 
“I’ve also had really meaningful patient experiences, and it’s great feeling 
that I’ve made a difference in the community. I’ve had patients who came and gave me the biggest hug just because we were able to tell them that their heart 
was healthy or that they were fine, or providing emergency critical services, which weren’t available to them. ”
However, there are some difficulties that come with the responsibilities. “I have a job as a medical assistant as well so sometimes I just have a lot 
of things, ” Longman said. “The most difficult thing is because we’re student 
run, students do everything, and we have to deal with the IRS — a lot of ‘adult 
issues’ that a lot of us have never done before. We’re just figuring it out as we go along. ”
Du initially found the language barrier hard to overcome, but it turned 
into a learning experience she was inspired by.
“The best part is definitely interacting with patients at clinic. I speak zero 
Spanish — literally never taken it before, so communicating involves a lot of smiling and hand movements, ” Du said, laughing. “But even without that, you can tell how appreciative the patients are of you. It’s very different, because 
I’ve volunteered at hospitals before, and nothing against the people of La 
Jolla, but they take healthcare to be something everyone has, while people in TJ really see us as a privilege. For one of my first clinic trips, I was taking 
the blood pressure of a patient, and they were like ‘Thank you so much, ’ and 
I hadn’t even done that much. It really just shows you what to be appreciative of and that some people don’t really have what you do. That was the best 
experience.
IHC accepts applications twice a year, during fall and winter, and forms 
for students can be found through its website. The organizations received about 100 applications this fall, more than all the previous years. Longman 
encourages students to join.
“I gained a lot of healthcare experience that I wanted and needed just to 
apply for school, but I think the thing that I’ve really gained from IHC is an amazing group of friends and a community here at UCSD, ” she said.
susanti  sharkar    s5sarkar@ucsd.edu▶ VOLUNTEERING , from page 6
PHOTO COURTESY BY IHC
PHOTO COURTESY BY IHCA&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The Coen brothers’ Net flix Original movie, “ The Ballad of Buster Scruggs, ” is a mixed bag of short stories and surprises.
Original movies are not known to 
be Netflix’s strong suite. So after 
a year of critically panned movies 
(“The Cloverfield Paradox”) and harmless, 
but middling rom-coms (“Set It Up”), it was 
frankly surprising to see the names of two 
highly respected, Oscar-winning filmmakers plastered across the Netflix home screen. Joel 
and Ethan Coen, the minds behind classics 
such as “Fargo” and “The Big Lebowski, ” partnered with Netflix to release their latest film, “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs, ” a title as 
head-scratching as its premise.
As a Western anthology film, “The Ballad 
of Buster Scruggs” has every trope from the genre packed into six short vignettes, 
including saloon shootouts, the Oregon Trail, Native American confrontations, and gold 
hunting. This uncommon short-story format 
is told through the lens of a storybook labeled “Tales From the American Frontier. ” With 
transitions between stories done through the 
literal turnings of pages, the movie treats the passage of the on-screen tales as almost 
innocuous bedtime stories. It’s a tongue-
in-cheek stylistic decision, for the tales themselves feature a death count that could 
rival an action movie.
The first story opens with a singing Buster 
Scruggs (Tim Blake Nelson) atop his horse. His scrawny look, shining white clothes, and 
carefree demeanor seem out of place against a backdrop of seedy, pistol-wielding criminals 
who’ d rather see him six feet underground. But when the cards are on the table, several 
unexpected matches between the happy-
go-lucky Buster and various disgruntled 
gunslingers leave only one man standing. Then, almost too abruptly, the next story 
begins. James Franco plays a different cowboy, 
with just the right amount of good luck, bad luck, and black humor as Buster. The 
following stories play out in a similar fashion.
It’s no spoiler to say that a death occurs in 
each story. During the first few stories, I asked, 
“what was the point of that?” after a character 
jarringly died — to which the movie seemed 
to laugh at me and continue on without missing a beat. I’m not typically one to enjoy 
unnecessary graphic violence, and the clash 
between the Coens’ nihilism and absurdist humor make for an unsettling watch at times. 
But, the stories are admittedly compelling 
when you never know what to expect. As each tale grew less amusingly peculiar and more 
somber and bleak, I found myself worrying 
less that the Coens had created a dud like their previous “Suburbicon, ” and worrying 
more about the unknown outcomes of some 
characters I quickly became invested in. Maybe I’m particular to traditional, emotionally-
rewarding arcs, but my favorite story is the 
second to last vignette, “The Gal Who Got Rattled. ” Unlike in the previous stories, death 
left a hanging cloud of consequences and felt 
especially unjustified.
However, all of the stories echo the same 
theme. Whether driven by greed or sickness or pride, death is a chaotic and indiscriminate force. The last story drives this message home, 
as a group of strangers bicker over what the 
“two types of people in the world” are — to which they are grimly reminded that perhaps 
the only real difference is if one is alive 
or dead. The characters’ realization happens over the course of a stagecoach ride that 
starts with glimmering sunshine and then 
sinks into an inky black night. It’s a fitting visual comparison to the movie itself, with its comical introduction to Scruggs and its 
starkly contrasting, ominous ending.
As challenging as the anthology format is 
to execute, most of the stories are consistent in theme yet different in substance. Put and seen 
altogether, however, the cohesiveness wears thin. While no story’s plot feels too sluggish 
or rushed to be a major problem, thanks to 
consistently well-timed delivery of lines and action sequences, the differences in length 
between stories is apparent while viewing. One 
or two stories could have even been left out to allow the others to fully develop. Which ones 
to cut depends on your mileage with the lively 
and quirky earlier stories or the blunt and brooding later stories, which may seem either 
too crude or too boring when compared. This 
tonal inconsistency undermines a movie that already plays hard into its “death-comes-to-all” 
message with each story. It is a message that, 
while emotionally effective, is nonetheless thematically weak. As expected from any 
Coen brothers movie, the set, clothing, and makeup design departments do a skilled job of 
replicating the 19th century; the coloring and 
cinematography is especially rich considering 
that “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” is the Coens’ first digitally-shot movie. The actors, 
too, are talented and well-casted, but there 
is a lack of non-white characters besides some Native Americans, who do not have 
speaking roles and are referred to as “savages. ” 
While the movie may be a satirical rendition of old American frontier values, and thus some stereotyping may be expected, the 
Native Americans are depicted as part of the 
everyday forces that lead to the deaths of the white characters. The depiction of Native 
Americans in the film as bringers of violence, 
while contributing to the film’s morbid theme, also perpetuates cinema’s harmful historical 
oversimplification of Native Americans.
“The Ballad of Buster Scruggs,” while 
having enough of the Coen brothers’ trademark wit, surprises, and technical skill 
to keep one entertained, does not manage to break free from its flaws. The unique yet 
brief stories, interesting yet underdeveloped 
characters, and clever yet uneven style all create a movie that fails to rise above other 
Netflix Originals. Ultimately, it falls as one 
of the brothers’ in-between works. Try rewatching “No Country for Old Men” on 
Netflix instead.
— Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
The  Ballad  of  Buster  Scruggs
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Joel Coen, Ethan Coen
Starring  Tim Blake Nelson, James Franco, Liam Neeson, Tom Waits, Zoe Kazan
Release Date  November 16, 2018
Rated  RCB-
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Good acting and beautiful animation could not disguise this transparent attempt at inciting nostalgia and relatability from audiences across the board. 
Near the top of the list of remakes 
nobody asked for lies “The Grinch, ” a 3D animated version of the Dr. Seuss’ 
book “How The Grinch Stole Christmas!” This movie follows the plot of the book and its first two adaptations but only close enough to 
continue being called an adaptation rather than 
a spin-off movie. For those unfamiliar with the classic Christmas tale, the basic premise is as follows: The Grinch lives as a recluse with his dog Max, in the mountains surrounding the 
town of Whoville, a quaint little village meant to 
give the viewer a sense of nostalgia for simpler times. Christmas celebrations down in Whoville, particularly caroling and Christmas music,  
upsets the Grinch, who then makes it his mission 
to steal all of the seasonal decorations and gifts from the Whos in order to stop the holiday from happening. The Grinch accomplishes his mission, but as he sits there on Christmas 
morning looking over Whoville, he realizes the 
Whos are still celebrating the holiday. He then understands that the true power of Christmas lies beyond worldly possessions. He goes on to 
return what he stole and earns his redemption, 
making his two-sizes-too-small heart grow.That is the standard, but out-of-the-box, 
Grinch story. However, where this most recent movie deviates is where its problems begin. 
The Grinch is supposed to be bitter and mean, 
a character that represents the anti-Christmas spirit. Instead, this movie gives us a soft Grinch, 
voiced by Benedict Cumberbatch, whose first 
venture down into Whoville is to get food for his dog. He then proceeds to buy it at “Who Foods” a play on words to the upscale grocery store “Whole Foods [Market]. ” A character iconic 
for his anti-capitalist messaging shops at the 
cartoon equivalent to one of the most overpriced, class-exclusive stores. Although a small detail, it reflects a larger trend in the movie which is that 
it was not made to honor the source material but 
rather to capitalize on hitting as many potential demographics as possible. Beside this, a lot of the jokes seem to play on the self-deprecating and cynical humor of the 2000 live-action adaptation 
that starred Jim Carrey. In this movie, however, 
they were often scaled back and tailored to a more sensible audience, which leaves them to become off-color and sometimes come across 
poorly timed. 
Another point of difference between the rest of the Grinch canon and this particular movie is 
the role of Cindy Lou Who. In the book and the 1966 animated movie, she played a minor role; 
in the live-action, though, she was the vehicle 
through which the Grinch’s past and his ultimate redemption were revealed. In “The Grinch, ” 
however, her storyline was significantly more 
moralistic in nature, resulting in a character that seemed to exist only to remind us that this is still a children’s movie, after all. After forgetting to mail her letter to the North Pole on time, Cindy 
Lou spends the movie devising a plan to trap 
Santa in order to get her one true Christmas gift granted — for her stressed and overworked single mother to be happy. While there is nothing 
fundamentally wrong with her character even 
as it plays well into the larger theme about the true meaning of Christmas, the execution of her storyline sometimes seems awkward and out of place. 
“The Grinch” movie seems intent on pleasing 
everyone. The 3D animation is cute, the theme song features Tyler, the Creator, one of rap’s biggest names, and the plot has loveable animal 
companions and jokes about emotional eating 
— all factors that showcase that the movie was tailor-made to generate money through both box office and merchandising. A true gamut of entertainment meant to capitalize on nostalgia 
and on young parents, the movie exists to remind 
us that we are all still willing to pay movie theater prices to watch the same story we’ve seen 
thousands of times before. That being said, this 
is an adaptation first and foremost, and in that regard, the creative team did a disservice. After the Grinch returns all the presents and Whoville is once again decorated for the holidays, the 
Grinch gives his dog a gift of a chew-bone. In a 
movie where the conclusion is supposed to be that material things don’t matter, the protagonist concludes by buying a toy for his dog. The lack 
of self-awareness in the movie solidifies the 
point that this movie is an attempt at hitting the correct marketing demographics. In trying to please everyone, it fundamentally diluted the meaning of this holiday classic, leaving audiences 
to wonder if Christmas really means anything 
more than the ribbons and tags.
— Adriana  Barrios
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
The Grinch
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Yarrow Cheney, Scott Mosier
Starring  Benedict Cumberbatch, Rashida Jones, Cameron Seeley
Release Date  November 9, 2018
Rated  PG
 What happened to the plane? Th e premise is still the only interesting thing that is manifested in NBC’s newest series, “Manifest. ”
NBC’s “Manifest” is a peculiar 
smorgasbord of sci-fi, supernatural, crime, and mystery that throws a 
compelling hook. It hits off with a dramatic premise — passengers and crew members on a turbulent flight land, only to discover that they have not aged at all even though five-and-a-half 
years have passed while they were airborne. 
Their perplexing situation is only exacerbated by the realization that the world has moved on, for better and for worse.  Furthermore, some of them are wrestling with supernatural experiences 
and abilities.
The series elaborately constructs its backdrop, 
creating a web of interconnected stories with the 
potential of developing rich subplots. “Manifest” 
primarily centers around the post-flight lives of 
siblings Michaela (Melissa Roxburgh) and Ben Stone (Josh Dallas), as they attempt to rebuild their lives and scrap to uncover what happened to the plane and its passengers. Michaela, a 
police officer, returns to her pre-flight life to 
discover that her mother has passed away and her fiance, Detective Jared V asquez (J. R. Ramirez) has now married her best friend. Ben, an 
associate professor, comes home to find himself unemployed, his daughter Olive (Luna Blaise) five 
years older, and his wife Grace (Athena Karkanis) in a secret relationship with another man. Ben’s 
son Cal (Jack Messina), who was travelling 
with him, is given another chance at life as an experimental treatment option was developed in the five years that he was on the plane to treat 
his leukemia. This treatment happens to be built 
upon the prior research of Saanvi (Parveen Kaur), a medical researcher who was also a passenger on the plane.
Despite the engrossing nature and clear 
potential of “Manifest, ” the series falls on its face almost right away. The show’s plot is extremely cliche and predictable. Immediately after the flight, the passengers and crew members 
experience supernatural “callings. ” In the case 
of Michaela and Ben, they are guided by voices that lead them on wild goose chases to solve crimes and save lives. When all seems lost, a supernatural voice guides the two to a miraculous 
revelation that solves the problem. They find 
missing children, save people from car accidents, and free a wrongfully convicted boy — all with the assistance of this mystical guiding forces. 
Hence, these adventures feel contrived and vapid. Everything seems to work out in the favor of 
the protagonists episode after episode. There is no grounded challenge and very little that 
keeps the audience on an emotional edge. The 
show’s progression as of now reeks of a crudely developed plot that will be dependent on deus ex machina to dig itself out of its own writing in the 
foreseeable future.
The potential of riveting subplots and deep 
character development is also wasted in favor 
of a fast-paced storyline. The series divests minimal resources in constructing anything 
robust outside of the main plotline. Topics such 
as familial turmoil between Ben and Grace, and Cal’s leukemia treatment and its connection to Saanvi are rapidly glossed over with an unrealistic 
amount of apathy. Ben, despite showing signs of 
strained emotions, just simply accepts that his wife had a relationship with another man while he was gone, and Grace seems to immediately cut off reliance on her boyfriend after her 
husband returns. The relationship between Cal, 
his leukemia, and Saanvi is unjustly relegated to the sidelines. What is perhaps one of the more interesting and original aspects of the show 
is never really developed. Saanvi’s interaction with Cal is suppressed in favor of her role as 
a sidekick to the Stone siblings’ supernaturally guided escapades. Ergo, this hyperfocus around 
the events of the plane leaves the audience with 
only superficial levels of knowledge about the values and traits of the characters and an inability to empathize with them.
“Manifest” possesses a fast plot and general 
predictability that is reminiscent of a soap opera. The show does little to branch out beyond its promising and well-crafted premise to create a holistic story. Rather, it relies a bit too heavily on 
its expository strength in order to draw audiences 
into tuning into the show. Each episode is merely another opportunity to glean more information on what happened to the plane. However, the 
series is still in its infancy, as it is currently only 
eight episodes into its first season. Therefore it is entirely feasible that it will grow to exceed some of the aforementioned criticisms. In the meantime, give “Manifest” a watch, if it does not get better, 
at least you will find out what happened to the 
plane.
— Aaron  Hong
Contributing Writer
SHOW   REVIEW
Manifest
PHOTO COURTESY OF NBC
Developed by   Jeff Rake
Starring  Melissa Roxburgh, Josh Dallas, Athena Karkanis, J. R. Ramirez, Luna 
Blaise, Jack Messina, and Parveen Kaur
Release Date  September 18th, 2018
Rated: TV-14CC-
CC 10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 6 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Making It Feel A Lot Like Christmas
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor 
Getting into the Christmas spirit at school sometimes 
feels like a contradictory challenge. How are we supposed 
to celebrate one of the homiest times of the year so far 
away from home? I can relate — my family picks out and 
decorates our tree the day after Thanksgiving, so I’m home 
for that, but I then have to spend the next three weeks in 
this odd limbo of finals season and holiday season. 
Hibernating under the covers with “Love Actually” is 
not your only option. Here are some tips to make it feel a lot more festive. 
Blast the Christmas music 
I’m guilty of listening to Christmas music as soon 
as November 1 hits. While I apologize profusely to my roommates for the amount of times I’ve belted “ All I Want 
For Christmas, ” I know that turning on some Mariah 
Carey or Michael Bublé always puts me in a better mood if I’m feeling homesick or down. Take an hour or so to 
sort through your favorite Christmas songs, and make 
a playlist or head to Spotify for some pretty great pre-curated ones. 
Hang up paper snowflakes
This takes me back to my fourth-grade classroom, 
where we folded tiny pieces of paper into little triangles 
and cut circles and squiggles to our heart’s desires. My 
paper-snowflake-abilities have improved since then, and you can create some really easy decorations using this 
method. 
Tape the snowflakes up to any window or wall for a 
nostalgic effect, or if you want to be a bit fancier, hang them on a string to make a garland or layer them to create 
a 3D effect.
If you’ve never made a paper snowflake, head here for the rundown: https://www.marthastewart.com/266694/decorating-with-paper-snowflakes
Turn on the oven
Nothing screams Christmas like the smell of freshly 
baked sweets. Y ou don’t need to be a baking expert or 
have hours of free time: Head to an on-campus market 
or grocery store for a roll of cookie dough or a box of brownie mix for a quick fix. If you like making things 
from scratch, cookies are probably the easiest, but I also 
love this foolproof banana bread recipe: https://www.geniuskitchen.com/recipe/best-banana-bread-2886. Y ou 
can customize it to your liking by adding whatever’s in 
your kitchen, like chocolate, raisins, or blueberries. 
Do a gift exchange
Everyone loves presents, and not knowing what you’re 
getting is even more fun. Secret Santa and White Elephant are classics, but if you’ d like to do something different this 
year, the internet offers a lot of options! Try a book or 
mug exchange, a cookie swap, grab bag, or a gift-guessing game. 
Have a hot chocolate party
Sure, you could throw a packet of Nestle in some 
hot water and call it a night, but for a more authentic 
experience, heat up some milk, throw chocolate chips in, 
and stir until all your chocolate has melted. Top off with some marshmallows or whipped cream, or use a candy 
cane as your stirrer for peppermint hot chocolate. Y ou 
could even get different types of chocolate — white, milk, dark, pink, you name it — to flavor the hot chocolate 
to your liking. Invite your friends over and put on a 
Christmas movie for a truly cozy evening. 
Happy holidays! LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduEasy Viewing
After a long day of classes, studying, homework, work, and 
responsibilities, I like to go home and watch easy TV , which are 
funny shows that don’t make you think too hard. Sure, I love a true crime or drama every now and then, but easy TV remains a constant 
favorite genre of mine. I have assembled a list (in no particular 
order) of my favorite funny TV shows that can be found on Netflix 
and Hulu for a good binge-watching session.
“The Good Place” (Netflix and Hulu)
    This show has been my latest obsession. With lovable characters, philosophy lessons, (I know right, how can this show possibly make 
philosophy likeable?), and a hilarious script, “The Good Place” is 
just brilliant. Even though every episode is basically a morality class, the show makes these concepts easily understandable and relatable 
to all. Also, not to spoil anything, but the plot twists are quite clever.
Favorite episode: “Michael’s Gambit”
“Big Mouth” (Netflix)
    “Big Mouth”: brings it back to the good ole days … just kidding, adolescence was not fun at all, but it makes for a good comedic cartoon! Centered around middle schoolers, the show takes us 
through their experience going through puberty. I’ll spare all the 
gory details, but I will say that the show is funny and honest. For a cartoon, “Big Mouth” keeps it pretty real.
Best episode: “Ejaculation”
“New Girl” (Netflix and Hulu)
  “New Girl” is fresh, funny, and heartwarming. It keeps it light, but the characters’ relationships truly make the show. Jess, a heartbroken 
woman, moves in with three men she does not know. Through that very Craigslist ad that brings them all together, she found three 
friends to last her a lifetime. Together, they experience crazy ups 
and downs, but at the end of the day, they’re all there for each other to make things OK.
Favorite episode: “Cooler”
“The Mindy Project” (Hulu)
      Mindy Kaling is hilarious. She was great on “The Office, ” but in “The Mindy Project, ” she really shines, as she should. Her character, 
Mindy Lahiri, works as an OB-GYN in New Y ork City with other eccentric characters. With every season, she grows as a person and learns how to do it all as a woman in the 21st century: the definition 
of girl power!Favorite episode: “You’ve Got Sext”
“The Office” (Netflix) and “Parks and Recreation” (Netflix and 
Hulu)
   Y es, I combined both shows into one description. They are both 
unique and deserve equal amounts of credit, but their similarities 
are too significant to ignore. Both shows are classics. Everyone knows and loves them and for good reason. The character dynamics 
and relationships in both shows are entertaining and heart-filling. 
They turn the most boring of places into a show anyone can relate to and love.
Favorite episode: From “The Office, ” “Diversity Day;” from “Parks 
and Recreation, ” “Pawnee Rangers”
“Bob’s Burgers” (Hulu)
     “Bob’s Burgers” is so simple, yet so good. It is literally a family that owns and runs a burger restaurant, but the characters are hilarious and always seem to get into trouble. All seasons are equally good 
and the show never declines in quality or entertainment levels. It is 
probably the easiest watch on this entire list and will remain a true favorite of mine.
Favorite episode: “The Equestranauts”
“Brooklyn 99” (Hulu)
“Brooklyn 99” takes a different approach to the typical cop show. 
It strays from the dramatics and focuses on comedy. The characters 
are all very different, which makes their dynamics that much more interesting. The show is also socially aware and progressive, 
touching on topics such as LGBTQ rights and gender equality. With 
great characters and unique plots, “Brooklyn 99” is very funny and definitely worth watching.
Favorite episode: “Pontiac Bandit”
     Whenever you find time to unwind and take a break, feel free to watch any of these shows. They are all quite different, but have 
that same upbeat, “feel-good” energy to them. Take it easy until 
next time.by Natasha Vandamme// Lifestyle Staff Writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 6 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduHoliday Horror 
Stories 
    As the holiday season is now upon us, we are 
encouraged to look around and feel grateful for everything and everyone in our lives. We watch 
movies with perfectly decorated homes and a 
heartwarming story to go along with the people 
inside of it. However, it’s no secret that in real life, most of us don’t always have a classic Hallmark 
holiday season. Y ou might hope for a perfect, 
memorable holiday with family, but sometimes it may be memorable for a whole different reason. Just so we all know we’re not the only ones who have a holiday where everything goes wrong, I 
asked some fellow college students to share their 
own holiday horror stories:    “When I was seven, I was pla ying basketball with my cousins and uncles at Christmas when 
they forgot I was seven and started to play too 
hard. I was just standing under the rim and one of them flew into me at full speed, knocking one of my front teeth out. ” — Erik, University of Oregon
    “We had what we refer to now as a ‘puke-mas:’ 
the entire family got the norovirus. I remember my cousins clutching buckets as we opened presents, uncles running to the bathroom and 
the smell … oh my God, the smell! We were 
up in Tahoe, trapped in a small cabin the entire time. ‘Twas the worst of times, ‘twas the s---tiest of times. ” — Katie, California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo
     “We were on our way to my aunt’s house 
in Grass Valley on Christmas Day and ended up getting lost for like six hours (this was pre-smartphones). By the time we got there, it had 
already been dark for a while. The next morning, 
my little brother hit his head on a bedpost and had to get four stitches in his head!” — Jasper, UC Davis     “ One year on Thanksgiving, I wore slippers while carrying a plate of food. I slipped on a wet spot in the kitchen, and the food went flying all over me!” — Kim, UC San Diego
     “My family makes cinnamon rolls every 
year for Christmas morning, but they have a lot of yeast in them and have to rise overnight. One time, my aunt’s really old dog ate all of the dough and her stomach literally inflated! We 
thought she was going to explode and die or 
get poisoning from all the yeast, but it ended up being OK. She lived for, like, two more years. ” — Xania, UCLA
     “Every year, my mom, siblings, and I go to my 
aunt’s house for Thanksgiving and we were only in charge of bringing dessert. My brother said he’ d bring cheesecake and my aunt approved of it. When we got to my aunt’s house, my brother 
carried the cheesecake in, but it was literally the 
size of a fist! My aunt laughed hysterically, while my uncle made so many jokes about it that my brother got annoyed and didn’t even eat the cheesecake!” — Demarin, Petaluma, CA
     “Usually my family keeps Christmas as a dry 
holiday, so no one drinks, and they’re very strict about it. One year, one of my cousins brought a bottle of Patrón and dumped the whole thing in the atole. Everyone kept drinking it since it was 
so cold outside, and we watched everyone change 
in how they spoke and laughed. It was funny, but they were mad because they couldn’t go home. No one found out which one of my cousins did 
it, so it’s still an ongoing investigation!” — Kelly, 
College of Marin     “One year, my siblings and I were smoking weed late at night on Christmas Eve, and we ate all the cookies our little sister left out for Santa. 
She woke up, came out, and started crying, so 
we had to make more cookies with her. It was pretty funny, but then we had to write the letter from Santa to her and reading it the next day was so bad. ” — Torran, California State University, Humboldt
     “On Thanksgiving a few years ago, I went to 
the garage to check on how the yams were doing. When I opened the oven, flames shot out of the oven. I stepped back, tripped over something, 
and fell. I screamed and my mom ran in, yelling, 
‘The marshmallows [on top of the yams] are on fire!’ I don’t remember who put the fire out, but my eyebrows and lashes got singed. ” — Ashley, College of Marin
     “My uncle used to dress up as Santa and bring 
in gifts for my little cousins, but one time my grandma pulled down his fake beard and the kids saw it was their uncle! The whole thing was 
ruined once they knew it wasn’t Santa bringing 
the gifts anymore. ” — Jillian, Colgate University
by Colleen Conradi // Lifestyle Staff 
ILLUSTRATION BY ANTHONY TRANCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ORKESTA MENDOZATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 26 - DEC 2
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY ANYTHING - 
THE ZONE
Let your creativity flow at The Zone by creating a 
craft of your choice! All supplies will be provided and limited to a first-come, first-serve basis. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
2pm
PIANO STUDIO RECITAL - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Piano Studio Recital. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
4pm
ILEAD WEEK 9 - BEAR ROOM, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
Campus Conversations: Challenging 
Conversations with Loved Ones *DOUBLE STAMP*. Have you ever had difficulty communicating with those close to you? Did you notice this when you shared time with love ones over a university closure? Join us for a unique dialogue experience to share how you communicate across difference. We will explore what it means to have thoughts, feelings, and beliefs that differ from those close to you. Full attendance at this workshop will grant you two stamps. Presented by Dialogue Ambassadors, Center for Student Involvement. Laura Lopez, Graduate Assistant, Center for Student Involvement. Katy Brecht, C&L Programs Coordinator, Center for Student Involvement. How far We'll Go: Navigating Healthy Relationship. This program offers an overview of qualities of a healthy relation, signs of an unhealthy/abusive relationship, and working with campus resources. Presented by Lana Talampas, Training & Education Specialist, CARE at SARC , Mai Eguchi, Intake & Program Coordinator, CARE at SARC. More information on iLead Fall 2018 Workshops can be found at https://students.ucsd.edu/_files/student-life/involvement/communication-leadership/ilead/Fall%202018%20-%20iLead%20Workshops%20V4.pdf
7pm
MEN'S BASKETBALL: UC SAN DIEGO 
VS. CAL STATE SAN BERNARDINO - 8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHOIR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Ken Anderson, San Diego's leading proponent of 
gospel, directs UCSD's gospel choir in a concert of African-American spirituals, blues, and traditional songs. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ORKESTA 
MENDOZA - PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM
Led by multi-instrumentalist and bandleader 
Sergio Mendoza (Calexico), Orkesta Mendoza fashion borderless sounds that span the Americas, embracing mambo and cumbia with the same vigor as psychedelic pop, twang rock, and analog electronics. Originally formed as a tribute to "King of Mambo" Prez Prado, Orkesta Mendoza plays music that explores a myriad of directions, rhythms, and moods, delivering big-band orchestrations mixed with lo-fi electronica, vocals en Espaol, and moving instrumentals. Epic and soulful, they truly capture the positive spirit of the Southwest.Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduTUE11.27
THU11.29MON11.26
SMOG EATING WALL DESIGN 
SUBMISSION - PRICE CENTER 
Greeks Gone Green will be installing a Smog Eating 
Wall outside of PC in an attempt to mediate 
noxious emissions on our campus. The poster will 
be located on the wall by the ATMs by PC loop, and 
will be very visible to passing foot traffic. This 
would be a great opportunity for any student who 
would love to make a lasting impression on UCSD's 
campus or would like to gain recognition or 
exposure for their work. We are looking for any kind 
of creative submission that inspires sustainability 
and environmentalism and would love to 
encourage anyone to submit a design concept. We 
are currently taking submissions for the design of 
this mural that will be displayed for a minimum of 
1 year. Submissions are accepted on an ongoing 
basis until November, 27, 2018.  Submit your 
designs at 
https://goo.gl/forms/9cizV0eL5dN3Nkt32 Contact: 
ucsdgreeksgonegreen@gmail.com
10am
YOGA ZONE - THE ZONE
Taught by a FitLife instructor, this free program is 
on first come, first serve basis. All materials 
including yoga mats are provided. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE coffee, 
tea and snacks! Come destress with University 
Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY: PUMPKIN 
HUMMUS - THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo Pumpkin Hummus, and 
enjoy some FREE samples! Hosted by Student 
Health Advocates (SHAs), all materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based on 
first come, first serve.
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
I-HOUSE: GREAT HALL  
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! $5 per person, CASH ONLY. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.eduFRI11.30
7pm
UNDERGRAD FORUM - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER RECITAL HALL
FREE. Voice Students, 32VM. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.eduSAT12.01WED11.28PC EAST BALLROOM
1pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!  Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn more about what makes you most stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while 
attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, 
faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
6pm
MEET THE BOSS - THE LOFT
Interested in startups and entrepreneurship? Want to connect with UC San Diego alumni? Come to Student Alumni Associates event Meet the Boss: Startups! A moderated Q&A with established alumni + a night of networking and free food! Contact: ifquezad@ucsd.edu
7pm
MARK DERY GUEST LECTURE - SME 
149, STRUCTURAL & MATERIALS 
ENGINEERING BUILDING 
"The Screams We Make In Other People's 
Dreams": Edward Gorey, the Gay Gothic, and the Camp Macabre. In this lecture, cultural critic Mark Dery will draw on queer theory, literary criticism, art history, and cultural studies to explore the Freudian shadows lurking in the corners of Goreys whimsically macabre art and writing. As well, hell reveal the seminal role played by Gorey in the postwar mainstreaming of the gay aesthetic and, together with childrens authors like Maurice Sendak, the transformation of American visions of childhood and the popularization of the darker, queerer childrens literature familiar from Lemony Snickets YA novels, and the twee-goth movies of Tim Burton. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
COMINGNEXTQUARTER14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
SUPER HEROES
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Mama’s husband
5. Pepper’s mate9. Bicycle part
14. Bullring shouts
15. Dogwood or palm
16. Suspect’s story17. Actress ____ Hepburn19. Syrup tree
20. Opposite of WNW
21. Browned bread
22. 19th letters23. Turf24. Stop
26. Least dirty
31. Lifts
35. Jousting weapon36. Throat-clearing sound38. Applaud
39. Say further
40. Malady
43. Grow old44. Arctic transport46. The thing here47. Crowlike bird49. Tranquilize51. Military warning (2 wds.)53. Sweet potatoes55. Psychic letters56. Agreements59. Keyed up62. Spring mo.65. Parcel out66. Preventable68. Boulder69. Row70. Fruit skin71. Carbonated beverages72. She, in Lyon73. WhirlpoolDOWN
1. Prod2. Sad cry3. Baseball’s ____ Rose
4. Fire remains
5. Took long steps
6. Opera song7. Telescope glass8. Fangs
9. Actress ____ Anderson
10. Rubber band
11. Dunks12. Skilled13. Untruths
18. Made amends
23. Defunct USAF branch
25. Upper limbs26. Category27. Large spoon
28. Brought to a close
29. Soft belt
30. Belonging to them32. Unpaid toiler33. Enthusiastic34. Depleted37. Alleviate41. News story42. Wiped clean45. ____ Beach, Florida48. Swiss mountain50. Samples food52. Crave54. Say56. Free ticket57. Choir voice58. Lump of dirt60. Devilish61. Yuletide62. Not up yet63. Implored64. Depend67. Gorilla, e.g.CARS
used 2015 Jeep Renegade Sport 4D 
Sport Utility - $15,900. 3PORT MODEL WITH ONLY 36, sixteen mileS!! one owner FRESH TRADE IN, CLEAN CARFAX, GOOD REPAIR HISTORY!! 2.4L WITH 9 GEAR AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION!! BLUETOOTH, U CONNECT AND MORE!! City Chevrolet, City VW, A Dealer For The People!!. ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2009 Honda Pilot EX - $6,792. We are 
excited to offer this 2009 Honda Pilot. When you purchase a vehicle with the CARFAX Buyback Guarantee, youre get -
ting what you paid for. As a compact SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE, this vehicle packs all the performance of a full-size into a package that easily navigates the urban terrain. You can finally stop searching... ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Salvage 2015 PORSCHE CAYENNE SE 
for Sale - $25,500 . This 2015 PORSCHE CAYENNE SE sustained Front End dam -
age The engine starts and the insur -
ance company paid out 44 479 on the claim You are more than welcome to contact us to schedule an appointment for vehicle inspection Mon Fri 8am 4pm ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
HOUSING
Single Room Available near SDSU - $1,045 per month. Looking for some -
one to take over my lease. Lease will end in July 2019! There is nothing wrong with these apartments, I am just moving to another city! You will have your OWN room and bathroom, and you will be sharing a living room and kitchen with ONE other roommate. The room is on the bottom floor right near the parking garage! If interested please text me!ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
3467 Reynard Way #C $2685 - $2,685 
per month. Cozy Mission Hills Condo! Lease through 6/2019 OR 6/2020 - A cozy condo on the edge of Mission Hills! Located on the border of Mission Hills and a few minutes away from many San Diego treasures. This is a pet friendly 2 Bedroom 1.5 Bathroom unit. This beautiful condo is roomy, open & airy, with a great open floor plan ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
655 Columbia St Unit 202 $650. The ulti -
mate and exciting downtown lifestyle 
awaits! This Columbia Place residence is located in the highly sought-after Marina District with its north-facing balcony overlooking beautiful Pantoja Park.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
Stolen bamboo bike- HUGE reward for return I’m really excited that my BAMBOO BIKE WAS STOLEN! Let’s use community action to take this prob -
lem and turn it into something Good! If the bike is returned to me I will bike it across America doing good for others and inspiring others to Do Good too! Please share this photo on Facebook to help the bike get returned to me and to help start a Do Good revolution!ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Banjo Brothers Grocery Pannier - $30. 
The tough as nails, Grocery Pannier includes a shoulder strap and carry handles great for shopping.Capacity to fit 1 standard grocery bag or plastic bags, and works great alone with its built-in shoulder strapB ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information$75 OBO Expandable Truck Bike Rack - Hollywood T900 - $75. The Hollywood Truck Rack’s patented clamping system 
allows installation of the rack onto the 
truck bed this rack without any drill-ing holes in the truck or pushing out against the side walls. Installs easily on small, midsize and fullsize pickup trucks with exposed bed rail. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingADS
You've got 'em,
we want them.
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingADS
You've got 'em,
we want them.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
Five Tritons remained on the 
pitch for the entire 110 minutes of 
play. Senior forward Mary Reilly 
converted 2 out of UCSD’s 3 shots on goal, and freshman forward Marissa 
Ray recorded the third. WWU 
dominated on shots by period (15–8) and corner kicks (5–1), forcing 
the Tritons to excel on the defensive 
end.
Redshirt junior goalkeeper 
Angelica Ramos was a blockade in 
the goal once again. Shetallied 5 
saves, including one from WWU’s 
second penalty kick attempt that brushed o ff her fingertips and into 
her hands safely. Ramos also led in saves by period (5–3) against an aggressive Vikings squad.
UC San Diego vs. West Texas 
A&M—Nov. 18, 2018
Canyon, Texas — Sunday’s 
national quarter final matchup 
resulted in an absolute annihilation 
against the host West Texas A&M 
University Lady Bu ffs. UCSD rolled 
over them on their own turf, 5–0.
With the victory, the Tritons 
advanced to 19–2–2 overall and 
punched themselves a ticket to Pittsburgh with a chance to bring 
home the national championship.
The two teams had no prior 
history heading into Sunday’s game, and both had salvaged their seasons 
two nights ago in postseason, fairy-tale fashion with penalty-kick 
triumphs. Given the circumstances, 
players, coaches, and fans could only anticipate the best of the best 
from each side.
As expected, Barber extended 
her stellar postseason play, leading the Tritons’ o ffense with a hat trick. 
The forward cra fted the first goal 
for the Tritons as well as the game around the 10-minute marker. Her 
second blast came just 12 minutes 
later. Later, about a quarter into the 
second half at 53:46, Barber’s third goal generated further insurance for 
UCSD, wrapping up the scoring for 
both teams.
Reilly added one goal of her own, 
bringing her season total to 16 — 7 more than she contributed the year before. Reilly also collected 2 assists, 
both which found Barber’s foot and eventually the back of the net.
Senior mid fielder Summer 
Bales capitalized on a loose ball, 
gathering her second goal of the 
year, unassisted. Bales also assisted 
Barber in her first goal of the night.
UCSD held the command in 
shots by a long run, outshooting the Lady Bu ffs 25–7 and 9–2 in corner 
kicks and holding a signi ficant 3–0 
lead at hal ftime. Because the Tritons 
were so busy on o ffense, Ramos 
accumulated only 4 saves yet was 
perfect again, collecting her 10th 
shutout for the 2018 season.
In its 29th NCAA postseason 
appearance, UCSD is set to play No. 17 University of Bridgeport in the national semi final game on 
Thursday, Nov. 29 at 2 p.m. Upon 
making the Final Four, the Tritons were reseeded at No. 2; Bridgeport 
earned the No. 3 seed. The top seed, 
Grand Valley State University of 
Michigan, will match up against No. 
4 Lee University of Tennessee the 
same day at 5 p.m. The winners of 
each game will compete for the title 
on Saturday, Dec. 1 at 12 p.m.
UC San Diego vs. Western 
Washington University — Nov. 16, 
2018
Canyon, Texas — Back-to-back! 
The UC San Diego women’s soccer 
team does it again.
In a state that claims all things 
are bigger, senior forward Megumi 
Barber scored one of the biggest 
goals of her career.
On Friday night at the campus 
of West Texas A&M University in Canyon, Texas, the Tritons prevailed over the Western Washington 
University Vikings, winning 
the Division II West Region Championship for the second year in a row. The game initially resulted in 
a 0–0 draw, in which the victor was 
decided by a tension- filled, penalty 
kick shootout. UCSD walked away 
with a 4–1 edge to break the tie.
Having played the Vikings  in 
the past two West Regional Finals, the Tritons  were 1–1 against them, 
always looking for revenge for 
losing an overtime heartbreaker that ended their season in 2016. The 
two teams had also competed in early September, when the Tritons defeated the Vikings 1–0.
The Tritons shot first in the 
tiebreaker and executed on all four of their attempts. Redshirt junior midfielder Natalie Saddic set the tone for the Tritons, to which the 
Vikings quickly answered. UCSD 
sophomore mid fielder Michelle 
Baddour followed up with the next 
goal, and sophomore mid fielder 
Delaney Whittet later capitalized on 
a huge WWU miss. Another Vikings 
error on the third shot positioned 
Barber exactly where she wanted to be.
In a high-pressure situation, 
Barber handled her nerves as she has done all season. The veteran’s poise 
and control granted UCSD valuable tools to go with another opportunity in the national quarter finals.
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@gmail.comTritons Crowned West 
Region Champs, Headed to Pittsburgh for National Semis
Tritons push further into the postseason with victory over West Texas A&MPHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
Winter National Championships
Winter National Championshipsvs Bridgeportat CSU Monterey Bayat CSU Monterey BayUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSwim & DiveSwim & Dive
W Soccer
W Basketball
M BasketballAll DayAll Day
2PM
5:30PM7:30PM11/2811/2911/2911/2911/29
This week the UC San Diego 
men’s basketball team swept 
two home matchups, defeating 
California State University, San Bernardino 97–63 on Tuesday and 
California State University, Chico 
84–68 on Saturday. This was the 
first week of California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Conference play, and UCSD  could not have had a better one. Unfortunately, this is 
also a week of heartbreaking news: 
Senior forward Christian Oshita will be forced to miss the remainder of the season due to a shoulder 
injury. Oshita has been one of the 
Tritons’ best players in the past few years and, just last week, put up 35 
points in one game. Despite not 
having Oshita, however, UCSD still played exceptionally well. In fact, 
on Tuesday, an alley-oop by redshirt 
sophomore guard Mikey Howell to redshirt junior guard Jeremy 
Johnson was featured on ESPN’s 
flagship program, SportsCenter.
Tuesday
Before the game on T uesday, 
fans saw Oshita not in uniform, 
but instead helping the coaches 
and assistants get the team warmed up. This was followed by the 
announcement  that Oshita has a 
nagging shoulder injury that will 
keep him out the remainder of the season. Apparently, Oshita has 
been nursing the injured shoulder 
all season long, but he and the team decided it would be better to 
redshirt the remainder of the year to 
be fully healthy next year.
Despite going into this game 
knowing that one of their best players could not play, the Tritons remained unfazed. Their warmup 
was as crisp as ever, and they looked fired up to begin CCAA play. The 
Tritons went on to defeat the CSU San Bernardino Coyotes with ease. 
They took a 6–4 lead three minutes 
into the first half, and from that 
point on, they never relinquished the lead. UCSD cleaned up the 
boards on the o ffensive side in the 
first half with 6 o ffensive rebounds 
and 7 second-chance points to CSU San Bernardino’s 2. Despite losing the lead a fter the third minute, 
the Coyotes  did not give up: They 
remained a presence in the game, 
only trailing  by 1 point going into 
halftime.
In the second half, however, the 
Tritons began to pull away from the Coyotes. A fter only being up by 1 point going into hal ftime, the 
Tritons led by 18 a fter the first 10 
minutes of the second half. That 
lead only expanded more and grew into as high as a 36-point lead before 
UCSD finally won the game, 97–63. 
In the second half, the Tritons 
were energized by several highlight 
plays. First, redshirt junior center 
Chris Hansen threw down a dunk in transition. Hansen finished the 
day with a team-leading 29 points along with six 3-pointers. Almost immediately a fterward, Howell and 
Johnson combined for the “play of the year. ” Howell lobbed one toward the hoop and Johnson cut from the corner, jumped up, and slammed 
down the alley-oop. Johnson 
elevated so high his head was nearly at the basket, and he easily threw 
down the two-handed dunk. This 
highlight play was so perfectly 
executed that it was featured as a 
part of ESPN SportsCenter’s “Top 10 
Plays of the Day. ”
The Tritons went into 
Thanksgiving 4-1 and would look to 
make it 5-1 on Saturday when they 
matched up with the Chico State 
Wildcats.
Saturday
After an impressive victory on 
Tuesday, UCSD played another magni ficent game on Saturday 
and dispatched a tough Chico 
State team by a score of 84–68. 
The Coyotes  have been a di fficult 
matchup for UCSD for several years 
now,regardless of the circumstances. 
Chico State was, in fact, playing in tough circumstances: Saturday 
was only its first game of the 2018 
season due to the poor air quality in 
Chico caused by the tragic wild fires 
nearby. The Coyotes ultimately fell 
to 0–1 on the young season, while UCSD jumped out to a sparkling 5–1 
overall record, 2–0 in the CCAA.
The first half was contentious for 
both teams, as neither team was able 
to get any sort of separation until the 
last three minutes in the half. There 
were an astounding 7 lead changes 
and 2 ties in the half, atypical of a 
UCSD team that  typically can hold 
on to any lead they get. With four minutes le ft in the first half, a nice 
3-pointer from sophomore forward Martin Tombe began the Tritons’ run. Not typically a player known 
for shooting threes, Tombe was on 
fire Saturday, hitting all three goals 
for 3-pointers. This particular shot 
especially seemed to power up the Tritons as, a fter this, they began an 
8–2 run that took them into hal ftime 
with a 9-point lead at a score of 34–25. UCSD would never give up the lead for the remainder of the game.
The Tritons were led by an 
unusual cast of characters in this one. After Tombe’s first-half heroics, the 
second half was led by sophomore guard Gabe Hadley. In the second half he put up 10 points, 1 steal, and 
12 minutes of play to lead the team. 
Tombe and Hadley showcased the dynamic o ffense of this year’s team 
led by head coach Eric Olen. The 
Tritons have a very strong bench, from which it seems like any player 
can come in and contribute to the 
team’s success. This strength will be 
especially important a fter losing star 
player Oshita last week. 
The Tritons led the entirety of the 
second half and picked up an 84–68 win. The Tritons improve to 5–1 
on the year and are 2–0 in CCAA play. Next week, they are on the road at California State University, 
Monterey Bay and then California 
State University, San Marcos. They 
will be back in RIMAC Arena on 
Thursday, Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m.Men's basketbalL
UCSD Basketball Sweeps 2 Games 
At Home Without Key Player
Despite losing forward Christian Oshita to a shoulder injury, UCSD stays strong.PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN
BY Lucas Armstrong
 Staff Writer
Lucas Armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu