UC San Diego reached a settlement 
with the United States Department 
of Justice after the university’s 
Resource Management and Planning 
department reportedly requested additional documents from its non-citizen employees proving their 
continued work authorization after 
their documents had expired.
The university, along with the 
UC Board of Regents, admitted to no wrongdoing on their parts. However, 
they reached a settlement with the DOJ, 
which inevitably fined the university $4,712.40 after finding it in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which forbids employers from requesting such additional paperwork on the basis of the employee’s citizenship status.
“Employers must comply with 
anti-discrimination laws, not only when employees are first hired, but throughout their employment. We 
will work with the university to 
ensure that its employment eligibility re-verification procedures avoid unnecessary burdens on permanently work-authorized immigrants based 
on citizenship status, ” Acting Assistant 
Attorney General John Gore of the Civil Rights Division said. 
Not only has the school been fined, but the DOJ has required that the RMP department’s human resources staff be trained on the work eligibility verification and re-verification process, as well as thoroughly review the 
school’s anti-discriminatory policies.
“The division’s Immigrant and 
Employee Rights Section is responsible 
for enforcing the anti-discrimination 
provision of the INA, ” the press 
release by the DOJ stated. “The statute prohibits, among other things, citizenship, immigration status, and national origin discrimination in 
hiring, firing, or recruitment or referral 
for a fee unfair documentary practices VOLUME 51, ISSUE 27   MONDAY , MAY 14, 2018  WWW .UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC Lawyers Gear 
Up to Defend DACA Before 
Appeals Court
The attorneys representing the UC 
system in its lawsuit to save DACA spoke 
to the media on Friday. 
This past Friday, the University 
of California held a teleconference 
to discuss the appeals court hearing and legal impacts of its case against the Trump administration’s decision 
to rescind the Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals program. The UC system mediated the conference call between various participating news media outlets and the lawyers Jeffrey Davidson and Alexander Berengaut — attorneys from Covington & Burling LLP representing the UC system — who will be presenting the oral arguments 
to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
on May 15. The lawyers spoke on the overall case developments and national significance the UC system represents in the broader effort to challenge executive evasion of judicial rule.
The UC administration was the 
first to file suit against the current presidential administration back in 
September, when President Donald J. 
Trump announced he would be ending DACA, an Obama-era immigration policy initiated by current UC President Janet Napolitano when she served as secretary of the Department 
of Homeland Security in 2012. The 
policy provides a two-year deferment from deportation actions and establishes eligibility for  work permits for about 700,000 children living in the U.S. without legal permission. 
Berengaut, who is stationed 
in the Washington, D.C. branch of  Covington & Burling LLP , spoke first 
to provide context on where the case 
stands in the overall DACA landscape. 
Firstly, Davidson distinguished that 
this case is part of a broader effort against the rescindment of DACA. Beginning in January of this year, U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco took the lead in entering an injunction so that the government’s 
decisions first go through proper legal 
channels, effectively severing its ability of immediate implementation and keeping the program alive for at least another year. This was followed with similar rulings by Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn in February, and U.S. District Judge John Bates of Washington, D.C. in April. 
Overall, three of the four judges 
to which the case was submitted have come out against the government’s decision. This allowed for more than 55,000 DACA recipients to renew their grants, giving them at least two years of safety. The rulings are from judges on both sides of the partisan aisle, Berengaut pointed out, indicating that 
the problem is regarding how executive 
decision-making should be made. 
“Our view goes straight to the core 
of what it means to be an American and what our society is made of, ” Berengaut stated.
CAMPUS
B Y Rebeca Camacho
 staff writer
Department of  Justice Fines UCSD for Immigrant Worker Discrimination
Singer, Nieman, performs at Sixth College’s annual music festival, Kuncocshun. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
See DACA,  page 3A three-da y strike organized by the UC 
workers union the American Federation of 
State, County, and Municipal Employees 
3299 began today at UC San Diego and the other 
UC campuses. The main cause for the strike is 
contract disagreements between workers and the 
UC system that have lasted for almost a year, bringing the tensions between the administration 
and the negotiators to a boiling point.
At around 11 a.m., strikers began marching 
from the Gilman Parking Structure near Geisel 
Library and made their way around the campus. First, the group circled around the Campus 
Services Complex, then marched up toward Geisel 
via the snake path from Earl Warren College. 
The marchers stopped for a brief rally in front 
of the library by Silent Tree before continuing on toward Thurgood Marshall College, passing by the Chavez Legacy mural at Peterson Hall. Their final 
destination was the administration offices, where 
the group stopped in Matthews Quad at the center of the offices. 
Here, a few speakers made a few rallying calls to their fellow strikers and union members. They made statements including, “The people are the 
power, ” and “We are not to be ignored. We are the 
backbone of this university. ”
The group cited the significant impact workers 
have on the campus, stating that the cleanliness and safety of the school is largely thanks to the work of union laborers. 
One speaker noted that “our dear Chancellor 
[Khosla] has the power to bring this all to a happy 
end. If not, we’ll be back. ”
Angela Velasquez, a union member and laborer 
at UCSD told the UCSD Guardian, “Mostly, we’re here just for respect. We are protesting the 
inequality that’s grown here at the university, with respect to economic gender and racial issues they 
are seeing through their contract. They are fighting 
to try and address these inequalities, but the UC [system] has refused to. ”
Elaborating on gender issues, she said that 
much of her work is dictated by her being a woman.
“There’s an uneven balance of workload B y  Tyler  F aurot   Editorial AssistantUCSD 
UC San Diego Workers Strike for Three Days in System-wide StrikePHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SP ACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  P age   _
section,  P age  _
FORE -
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT  ................................... X
OPINION SOMETHING  .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  XSECTION,  P AGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
REFLECTIONS WITH 
REFILWE 
The Guardian spoke with 
A.S. Vice President of 
External Affairs Refilwe 
Gqajela about her 
experiences as a student 
leader and what she hopes 
to see in the university’s 
future.
INTERNA TIONAL STUDENTS
WOMEN'S  W A TER  POLOA  NEW  mmw  sequence
A  BITTER  DEFEA TOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P AGE  15
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Bars and clubs make 
up the bulk of queer 
spaces, and it is more 
than common to see 
scantily clad men 
pulling attention on 
posters or poles. Even 
more common are the 
instances of groping, 
drunk affection, and 
blatant sexual assault.” Fea tures,   P AGE  6
MONDAY
H 70 L 56
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 56
PHOTO COURTESY OF REFILWE GQAJELA
TUESDAY
H 71 L 56
THURSDAY
H 70 L 56
LIGHTS & SIRENS.........2
NATIVE BEES................5
CREATIVE WRITING......8
BICULTURAL...............10
SOFTBALL...................15CAMPUS
Chris Robertson
Queeries
 PAGE 4The fine was part of a settlement for illegally requesting additional documentation from immigrant employees.
B Y Armonie  Mendez
 associate editor
See DISCRIMINATION,  page 3See AFSCME,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MAY 14, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  N EWS
@ucsdguardian
2018 BUDDHA’S 
BIRTHDAY 
CELEBRATION        
Sunday, May 20
⃫ሀڍắᾳ
Hsi Fang Temple
4536 Park Blvd. San Diego, CA 92116
Tel:   619-298-2800
www.hsifangtemple.orgܻڍ೶༆ٚභ10:30am
Dharma Service and Buddha’s 
Birthday Offering Ceremony
10:30am
Goodie Bazaar
11:30am
Vegetarian Food Fair
12:30pm
Cultural Performance ucsdguardian.orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD  students and for the UCSD  
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, 
whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. “If a French person gets arrested, does it automatically turn into Les Mis?”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarTuesday, May 1
10:52 a.m. Medical Aid Adult male experiencing chest pains and shortness of breath. Transported to Hospital.1:55 p.m. Drunk in Public
Original report of suspicious male hunched over possibly needing medical 
attention or intoxicated. Closed by Adult Arrest.4:56 p.m. Welfare CheckMale with suicidal thoughts. Transported to Hospital.5:29 p.m. DisturbanceReport of male throwing rocks and using hands to hit vehicles. Stay Away Order Issued. 11:15 p.m. Battery Physical altercation between patient’s visitors, victim sustained laceration to his 
nose, other party escorted off premises. Hospital Security Report Taken.
Wednesday, May 2
12:55 a.m. Prowler Report of a male on ground who appeared disoriented by stairs at main entrance. Stay Away Order Issued.5:58 a.m. VandalismPsych subject, report of male in underwear only, in fenced area of school, subject reported to have escaped from Scripps Hospital, subject ran from police and was 
later found on roof of the Nissan Design Building on Campus Point Dr, Nissan 
reporting intentional damage to HV AC unit of roof, cost of damage $2000.00. Transported to Hospital.10:32 a.m. Welfare CheckReport of student with suicidal thoughts. Transported to Hospital.12:49 p.m. Medical AidFemale conscious but having trouble breathing. Transported to Hospital.1:30 p.m. Collision Counter ReportMotorist of personal vehicle, states he was sideswiped by MTS bus when it veered 
into his lane. Report Taken.
3:10 p.m. Alcohol ViolationStudent under the legal drinking age was intoxicated to such an extent that they self-RAP themselves to the on-campus sobering facility. Referred to Student Conduct.
Thursday, May 3
7:10 a.m. Citizen Contact Complaint of adult male taking pictures of employees due to being upset about a collision that occurred the previous day. Information Only.10:12 a.m. InformationSubject with stay away order on campus looking for their property, referred to UCSD Police Department. Information Only.11:17 a.m. Suspicious Person
Student with active suspension on campus, additional information for case 2018-
0685. Information Only.5:58 p.m. Welfare CheckMale talking to himself and appeared upset. Unable to Locate.7:20 p.m. Animal CallReport of dead bird on PD counter at storefront. Unable to Locate.8:31 p.m. Alcohol ViolationReporting party heard someone yelling and crying under overpass. Information Only.
9:53 p.m. Unknown Trouble
Unknown male caller asked CSO to respond to West Tower, when asked why, subject hung-up. Checks OK.
Friday, May 4
5:34 a.m. Illegal Camping Report of transient defecating on walkway. Gone On Arrival.2:09 p.m. Animal CallSmall injured bird outside the women’s restroom. Gone On Arrival.
11:17 a.m. Suspicious Person
Student with active suspension on campus, additional information for case 2018-0685. Information Only.4:09 p.m. Gas/Water/Sewer LeakStrong odor of natural gas in the area. Checks OK .4:56 p.m. Traffic HazardReport of young adult male running in and out of traffic. Unable to Locate.6:29 p.m. InformationReport of road rage incident with Lyft/Uber driver. Information Only.
12:00 a.m. Theft/Trespass
Patient reported that his backpack was stolen from waiting room, suspect located and issued stay away order, property returned to owner. Hospital Security Report 
Taken.
—  Armonie Mendez
Associate News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduLike  us  on  F acebook
@UCSDGUARDIANN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y , MAY 14, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
UCSD Has 60 Days to Amend Its Behavior
The Lawyers Will Use Trump’s Statements Against Him▶ DISCRIMINATION, from page 1
▶ DACA, from page 1retaliation and intimidation. ”
The DOJ has given the university 
60 days after the effective date of the 
settlement to review existing policies regarding non-discriminatory hiring 
practices on the basis of citizenship and revise them in accordance to 
regulations described in the settlement statement.
The second point was about how 
Texas and a few other states have filed 
federal lawsuits seeking declaration that DACA is unlawful. Lawyers in Brownsville, Texas argued that their case was not directed against other currently pending cases, seeing as federal courts cannot legally enter any injunction that might interfere with 
cases not yet closed.
Berengaut ended on the importance 
of the legislative branch in giving the 
final say in the matter.
“None of these cases are 
substitution for legislative decision; it is only Congress that can enshrine decision into law, ” he said. 
Davidson, located in Washington, 
D.C., gave the oral arguments that will be used when the lawyers defend it on Tuesday in the 9th Circuit. 
Davidson explained how, contrary 
to previous public statements made by the president, DACA is premised on the enforcement of authority 
established during the Eisenhower 
administration, dating back over 50 years in U.S. history. 
He also pointed out that the 
government’s chief defense strategy is extreme in reach; when declaring DACA to be unlawful, the statement of the ruling is outside of court jurisdiction, discrediting such a notion. 
The Trump administration has 
made public statements claiming to anticipate DACA ’s ruling as political leverage against Democrats, which Davidson ultimately concluded will illustrate how DACA recipients are being utilized as political bargaining 
chips and strengthen the argument 
of the capricious and unconstitutional nature of the executive order. 
Armonie  Mendez   aemendez@ucsd.edu
Rebeca  Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.eduThe Employees Marched Throughout Campus
▶ AFSCME, from page 1
between the men and the women, ” 
Velasquez said. “Women are more 
concentrated in some job titles that 
are considered to be more woman-oriented, as opposed to more 
‘manly’ work. The starting pay is 
different based on job titles, and generally the generically women’s jobs pay less. ” 
One of the main objectives in 
the union’s contract negotiations is a wage increase for laborers. The union demanded a 6-percent raise, 
but the UC only offered as much as 
3 percent over four years. 
“There is a growing gap 
between workers at the bottom to administrators, ” Velasquez told the Guardian. “What we’re asking for 
is not a lot compared to the rates 
of [the University of California] using taxpayer dollars to pay a Chancellor’s salary. ”
“I hope we can come together so 
I can go back to my work and serve the students, which I enjoy doing here. Just like the people in the 
hospitals being able to go back and 
help their patients, ” Velasquez said. 
The strike is set to continue into 
Wednesday. It is expected that more marches involving larger groups of 
union members will take part in the 
coming days.
“If the university really wants 
what is best for students, they should come to the table, ” Velasquez concluded. “What we’re asking for is 
not unreasonable. ” 
Tyler  F aurot    tfaurot@ucsd.edu