VOLUME 51 , ISSUE 1 7  TUE SDAY, FEBRUARY 20 , 2018 WWW. UCS DGUARDIAN. ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
!
 
643+2#$#2,'3$#--
FORE-
VERBATIM
INSIDEFIGHTING FOR 
THEIR HEALTH
   
 #
	

	 

!!  
!"#
!

!'.05+/)#3+0/#--#3(01.2
#)'	
!#)'
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE% %
 "
 
"$
"
!
 
 

-MARCUS  THULLIE R
ACROSS THE GL OBE
OPINION , PAGE 4'#341'2
MONDAY
H 59 L 44
WEDNE SDAY
H 59 L 49
MOND AY
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ 
TUESDAY
H 60 L 4 6
TUESDAY
THURSDAY
H 59 L 5 1
THUR SDA
LIGHTS & SIRENS.........2
SUSTAINABILITY ...........4
BLACK PANTHER......... 8
STREET FAIR...............1 2
W. BASKETBALL.........1 6Campus officials reversed their
Feb. 6 decision to re quire t hat Out back 
Adventures - UCSD Recreation vacate
its office in Pepper Can yon b y April 1 
to ma ke way for the new Pepper Bow l 
amphitheater bein g constructed in its
place, Director o f Out door E ducation 
Tom R ottler announced on Feb. 15.
The universit y had initiall y given
Outback Adventures a move-out date
of Jul y 1, so advancin g the schedule 
would have left Out back Adventures
without an office until Au gust 1, when 
it will occup y a temporar y space, an dr e q u i r e d  i t  t o  c a n c e l  a l l  o f  i t s  S p r i n g
Quarter pro grammin g.
Outback Adventures is a su bset 
of UCSD Recreation t hat provi des
outdoor tri ps to students to hike,
kayak, snow board and more, trains
students to guide these trips, an d
oversees the Outback Climbin g Center
and the Challenge Course.
The universit y’s Feb. 6
announcement was met wit h protest
from past an d present partici pants 
and Outback Adventures itse lf. In an
emai l sent Fe b. 13, Rott ler circu lated
a feedback form askin g friends o f 
Outback Adventures to hel p “convince 
campus decision ma kers to honor t heir commitment” o f a July 1 exit date.
The form generate d 150 responses 
from stu dents, faculty, and alumni .
“Do as you ma y, but Outbac k 
Adventures is one of the few areas
at UC San Die go that gives me 
pride to be a Triton, an d it wou ld be
heartbreakin g for it to be taken awa y 
for even a month ,” one current Outbac k 
Adventures emp loyee su bmitte d to
the form.“I alwa ys wondered wh y 
UC San Die go [lacked] some basic 
college attri butes suc h as sc hool spirit
and an a lumni networ k. An d wit h 
the priorities, actions and ne gligence!

#	! ! 
Repu blican gubernatoria l
candidate, Dou g Ose, stopped
by the UCSD Guardian office
last week for an interview.
Former Sacramento Congressman 
Dou g Ose is returnin g to po litics a fter
over a decade, throwin g his hat in 
the rin g for governor o f California.
He’s runnin g on t he Repu blican tic ket, 
and announce d his can didacy about a
week ago. 
Ose graduated from UC Ber keley in
1977, an d shortly after, starte d his own 
business in rea l estate development 
and investment. A fter 20 years 
in business , he ran for a seat in t he 
House o f Representatives in 1997. He 
served three consecut ive terms before
steppin g down in 2005 .
On Mon day Feb. 12 Ose came in 
to the UCS D Guardian’s o ffice for an 
interview. We asked  him about  what 
he hopes to deliver an d how he wou ld
oversee t he UC s ystem as governor.
“It just seems like common sense, 
you know?” Ose sai d about issues like
water, homelessness, and the econom y.
“Can’t we just get someone to fix this
stuff? Can’t we have someone buckle
down an d get it fixed before t hey rush
off to the next ‘issue of the da y?’ That’s 
why I’m runnin g.”
The Guardian as ked him a bout 
his sponsorin g of President Donald 
Trump durin g the 2016 election. He 
had supported him a fter Je b Bus h
dropped out o f the race.
“I was a stron g supporter o f 
Trump, ” Ose stated. “I si gned on in
February of 2016, an d I did it for a
very speci fic reason. An d that was:
From m y experience, which is different
than probabl y most of your readers,
but from m y experience, Was hington
is broken. We cou ld argue a bout t he 
merits o f the president’s tweets an d 
his language an d what have you, but
he certainl y is not same-old, same-old 
that we’ve had for the last 25 years.”
He said that as a Re publican, he 
didn’t feel he had to chan ge anything
about his political character un der the
Trump presi dency.
Durin g the discussion t he UC
system, Ose was as ked about t he UC
Board of Re gents considerin g raisin g 
tuition a gain in t he sprin g after failing 
to receive the amount of fundin g 
for the UC s ystem in the 2018-19 
California budget that they desire d.
This was his stance:
“I don’t believe colle ge should be
free. I think if you give somethin g 
away, it undermines its intrinsic value, ”
Ose told the Guardian. “If ever y young 
person who is a freshman in hi gh 
school knew that the y could get into
any colle ge for free, the y receive the 
message that they don’t have to wor k 
very hard to get into co llege.”
“What I’m m ore concerned about  
is gettin g awa y from a merit- based
admissions polic y into somethin gRECREATION
!#41'/0-3

!7-'1#4103

   "  !  " !
UCSD
StuStuStudendendents ts ts dandandance ce cecforforfora a a ChiChiChinesnesnese NNe NNew ew ew eYe aYe aYe ar pr pr pr erferferformormrmormancancancance ae ae ae et tt tt the he he GloGGbalalalaScScSchoohoohool ol ol of Pf PfPolioliolicy.cycy  Photototo bo bo boo by Fy Fy Fy ranranrancescesceca ca HumHumHum mlemlemlemlemlemlemler /r /r // U// UCSDCSD GuGuardardianiann 
SeeOUTBACK ADVENTURE, page 3UCSD
See DOUG OSE, page 3UC San Die go’s Housin g Dinin g Hospita lity 
told the Student Sustainabilit y Collective 
last week that it is currentl y not able to move 
forward with its on going efforts to ban the sale o f 
non-reusable plastic water bottles on cam pus due
to a bevera ge contract with Coca-Cola that HDH
entere d in ear ly 2017. Bot h HDH an d SSC inten d to
work together to find a so lution t hat is favora ble to
both parties but does not vio late t he contract.   
The plastic water bottle ban campai gn is t he
result of a decade of stu dent a dvocac y wit h the 
SSC, beginnin g its campai gn on t he ban on sin gle-
use p lastic water bottles w hen t he organization
was esta blished in 2008. A.S. Counci l also passed
a referen dum in 2016 in support o f restrictin g the
sale of plastic water bottles on campus and reducin g 
plastic waste. 
“By participatin g in a culture of reusable water
bottle and h ydration station usa ge … UCSD students,
staff, and faculty can re duce ne gative environmenta l
impacts in a manner t hat is a lso cost e ffective, ”
former A.S. Vice Presi dent o f Environmenta l Justice
Affairs Moon Pan kam to ld the UCS D Guardian at
the time of the referendum.
“In 2012, we had an a greement with HDH that
established a ban on sing le-use p lastic water bottles,
but it wasn’t we ll-defined, ” SSC’s Director o f Water
and Plastic Water Bott le Ban Campai gn Lea der ZoeSebri ght said. “They sell above 16.9 ounces in the 
dining halls still. This year we wante d to revamp our
agreement wit h HDH to exten d it to up to one gallon
so it inc ludes all water bottles.”
SSC re-presente d the ban to t he HDH a dvisor y 
committee in a meetin g last wee k but were to ld that
it could not pro gress with the proposal due to the 
contract.
“[The HDH advisor y committee members] said
that their aim is to tr y and reduce t he use o f single-
use plastic water bottles, but the y’re workin g within 
the limitations wit hin these contracts t hey have, ”
Sebright said. 
UCSD’s seven- year contract wit h Coca-Co la went 
into e ffect on Jan 1, 2017. T he agreement out lines
legal requirements for the sa le of the compan y’s
products, an d in turn, Coca-Co la wi ll provide
$585,000 eac h year to UCSD durin g the time o f the
seven- year con tract.
Certain restrictive con ditions in t he agreement 
prevent t he campai gn from movin g forwar d.
In addition to the s ponsorshi p fees, “[Coca -
Cola] wi ll pay HDH a re bate o f (i) Two Do llars
($2.00) for eac h stan dard physical case o f Dasani an d 
Smartwater bottles. ”
Additionall y, Coca-Cola will “bud get and
spend up to Four Thousand Dollars annuall y” for
mutuall y-agreed on-Campus promotional pro gr a m s                     7#&'-+/''0/ CAMPUS
 	    !    
The outcry came a fter un iversity officia ls informe d Outback Adventures it wou ld be wit hout an office.See WATER BOTTLE, page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TIMMY TRITON COMIC By Andrew Diep 
triton outifttersSHOP
to.ucsd.edunew winter line
@ucsdguardianSaturday, Jan. 20
1:26 a.m. Disturbance — Argument
Discharged patient refusing to leave. Will cooperate.
2:55 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Overly intoxicated female. Transported to Hospital.
4:05 a.m. Medical Aid 
Request for alcohol evaluation of adult female. Checks OK/
Referred to Student Conduct.
1:47 p.m Petty Theft
Report of stolen bicycle parts, no report desired. Information 
only.
3:30 – 3:40 p.m. BurglaryUnknown suspect(s) entered victim’s locked laboratory and 
stole laptop, loss $2000.00. Report taken.
4:35 p.m. Lost Property 
Owner received notice wallet was turned in UCSD PD Lost 
& Found. Returned to owner.
4:50 p.m. Citizen Flagdown
Student requesting access into building for items left in room 
the day before. Service provided.
5:39 p.m. Drunk Driving 
Possible intoxicated subject from earlier, got into vehicle. 
Unable to locate.11:25 p.m. Citizen Contact
Officer contacted room for having hookah. Referred to 
student conduct.
Sunday, Jan. 21
1:08 p.m. Lost property 
Owner states he can see property through window and is 
requesting to retrieve it. Service provided.
2:45 a.m. Medical Aid
One month old baby choking and not breathing. Transported 
to Hospital.8:13 a.m. Disturbance — Psych Subject
Male transient yelling in street. Gone on arrival.
10:33 a.m. Disturbance
Verbal dispute over tennis court. Checks OK.12:23 p.m. Citizen Contact
Possible laundry thief. Field interview. 
4:56 p.m. UC Policy Violation
Group of teenagers skating off new sign. Unable to locate.
10:05 p.m. Citizen Contact
Residents have construction signs inside their residence, 
appear to have been taken from trolley construction site. 
Referred to student conduct.
10:07 p.m. Citizen Contact  
Officer contacted two subjects for smoking in parking lot. Verbal warning issued. 
11:17 p.m. Noise DisturbancePeople running around, sound of things falling, loud movie 
coming from room above. Referred to student conduct. 
Monday, Jan. 22
2:22 a.m. Welfare Check
Reporting party in front of location at bus stop, requesting 
medical and police after being discharged from hospital. 
Referred to other agency. 
4:42 a.m. Trespass
Report of two transients illegally lodging in basement. Field 
interview.7:02 a.m. Burglary to Vehicle
Unknown suspect(s) forced entry into victim’s vehicle and 
stole laptop, loss $150.00. Report taken.
11:11 a.m. Welfare Check  
Request for voluntary transport to hospital for suicidal thoughts. Service provided.
12:17 p.m. Medical Aid
Male student fainted and hit head. Service provided.
1:12 p.m. Injury
Adult female fell and slipped, injured ankle. Service 
provided.  
—   Armonie Mendez
Associate News EditorLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. “Samuel’s out,” Aleya quietly whispered. He soon read aloud “‘Samuel’s out,’ Aleya quietly whispered’” before she unenthusiastically responded with, “Sure, Sam.”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen
Editorial Assistants
Chloe Esser, Maya Kleiman,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 

Attend all UC board meetings, 
maintain full voting power, and enjoy waived university fees
	
Attend all UC board meetings and further supplement the single student regent vote
“ … designed to promote and increase 
Bevera ge sales on Campus. ”
The contract exp lains t hat if HDH
stops sellin g a certain amount o f 
bevera ges, then the sponsorship fees
would decrease. Should “the volume
of Company Beverage sold to HDH 
decreases for any reason … Sponsor 
may elect to a djust t he Sponsors hip 
Fees to be pai d to HDH to fairly 
reflect t he actua l and demonstrate d 
diminution o f the va lue o f rights 
grante d to Sponsor. ”  
SSC conducted a student surve y 
in 2017 pertainin g to plastic water 
bottle use. Out of 1,089 responses,51.8 percent said that they do not buy single-use plastic water bottles and 95
percent of 981 student res ponses said 
that they use a reusa ble water bottle.
Furt hermore, w hen given t he 
scale of one to five for support o f 
“terminatin g the sales of sin gle-use 
plastic bottled water on-campus, ” 
52.7 percent of 1,089 chose five,24.7 percent chose four, 15.2 percent
chose three, 4.5 percent chose two, 
and 2.8 percent chose one. 
“ At the end of the day, we are 
using stu dent funding, an d we want
to give back to stu dents an d ma ke
sure t hat we have t heir priorities in 
mind,”  S ebright said. 
However, Se bright suspects t hat 
some students ma y not be in favor
of the ban because it is “limitin g that
choice” between a sin gle-use water
bottle and a reusable one, which ma y 
b e  v i e w e d  a s  “ a n  a t t a c k  o n  people’s
liberties. ” 
Roger Reve lle Co llege sop homore
Stephanie Pine da proposed a different
approac h for the plastic water bottle
ban.
“I believe that HDH should
minimize [its] sell of plastic water
bottles and focus more on sellin g
better alternatives, ” Pineda told theGuardian. “I feel like the more 
[it
displays] plastic water bottles in a
freezer , the more inc lined stu dents
are to buy t hem; t herefore, i f HDHwou ld limit t hat, stu dents wou ld 
have to look into the investment of a
reusab le water bottle and start a chain
reaction.” 
However, Sebright suggested that
the plastic water bottle ban would
help to limit cam pus waste. 
“We say we stand for sustainability 
and we have a ll these different 
policies, an d we sa y we’re going to do 
Zero Waste, but rea lly the biggest part
of reducin g your waste is to reduce
your consumption first. ”
The goal in “zero waste” is to
reduce the amount of waste sent
to a landfill. In the “idea of waste 
hierarc hy: re fuse, re duce, reuse,
recyc le”, Se bright suggests t hat 
“recycle should be our last alternative. ”
HDH was not a ble to provi de
a response in time for this artic le’s 
publication. The article will be
updated with additional information.    " !   !  !  # 	  ! 
▶WATER BOTTLE ,from pa ge 1
  #	 
  #that is a more ‘politically correct’
substitute ,” he said. “I don’t think that’s 
what the UC system was designe d to 
do. The UC s ystem, in m y min d, was 
to provi de a p lace w here our best an d 
our brightest, re gardless o f ethnic or 
racial backgroun d, just simp ly our best
and our brightest cou ld go to get add-
on skills that would drive the econom y 
for the next generation. ”
Ose told the Guardian that if the
universit y didn’t chan ge, he would cut
the bud get for the s ystem. “I’m not 
going to, as governor, allow this person who has a social agenda to undermine the progress we need in all different sectors of the economy. ”
T
hen, he commente d about t he 
audit revea ling mi llions o f undisclosed 
funds in t he UC president’s accounts .
“I am terribly troubled at the 
ability of the UC s ystem to squirre l 
away a hundred-odd million dollars
for t he discretionar y use o f the
chance llor wit hout an y accounta bility,”  
Ose stated. “Before we start raisin g 
tuitions, in order to pa y higher salaries 
to members of the acade mic senate 
and alike, ma ybe we ou ght to fi gure 
out what we’ve got in hand toda y, 
stop squirreling it away in these secret accou nts.”
When asked about the Regents’ 
recent lawsuit against the Department 
of Homeland Security contesting the 
rescinding of the Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals program, Ose 
said that he had recent ly participate d 
in an e ducation forum. During his 
preparation for it, he constructe d a 
page o f recommen dations for Congress 
regarding how to re form t he pro gram.
“One of those thin gs had to do 
with creatin g an a djudicator y process, 
some sort o f an a dministrative hearin g 
process based on what Con gress does, 
that allows these young people who are 
here under the DACA pro gram to have 
their cases resolved, ” Ose said. “Some
of those kids, frankl y, have en gaged in 
stuff that we don’t want. We need to 
figure out who they are, and take them to the border
, and show them the door. 
Other kids , w e  n e e d  t o  s e t  s t a n d a r d s , 
which Congress nee ds to set. ”
California’s gu bernatoria l primar y 
election is on June 5, an d Dou g
Ose is current ly one o f six declared 
Republicans in t he race. Rea ders can 
see t he full transcript o f the intervie w 
online.
of this decision I am bein g painfull y 
taught wh y.”
Citing Outback Adventures as
“THE hi ghlight of m y under graduate 
experience, ” one UCSD alum criticized the administration and suggested the decision to leave Outback Adventures without an office during the sprin
g
indicates the university does not care 
about promoting awareness o f climate 
change an d other environmenta l
issues .
“To stri p Outback Adventures
of its location — w hich not on ly 
serves as mana gerial wor kspace, but
also as a site for p lannin g outin gs, 
meetin g participants, an d gettin g
ready for out door excursions — 
would be a severe harmful blow to 
the or ganization, ” the alum wrote.“Such an action would demonstrate 
a comp lete disregard for the UC San
Diego stu dents w ho benefit from 
Outback as emp loyees, communit y 
mem bers, trainees, an d participants.
It would  necess itate alumni such  as 
myself seriousl y reconsiderin g whether
UC San Die go deserves our financial
support. ”
Rottler him self wr ote a letter to
campus officials on Feb. 12 asking them to re
peal their decision on the
basis that without their field program
infrastructure , Outback Adventures
wou ld be una ble to perform t he 
necessary operations to managet
heir programs suc h as food storage,
program equipment storage an d
staging, laundry, and more. T he letter
also listed seven ne gative e ffects o f 
early closure, inc luding loss o f needed
revenue, loss o f emp loyment for 70 stu dent wor kers, and loss o f the 
experientia l programs t hat severa l
classes have incor porate d into t heir
coursewor k.
Accor ding to t he Out back 
Adventures leadership, t he outcr y 
from current an d former participants
was w hat prompte d campus o fficials to 
keep the Jul y 1 move-out date.
“All of your comments and ener gy 
turned a ripple into a wave, ” the y 
stated.
The temporar y office that Outback 
Adventures will occupy beginnin g
on August 1 will be located near the
Spanos Athletic Performance Center,
and Outback Adventures is predicted
to spend three years there. ▶DOUG OSE ,from page 1
▶OUTBACK ADVENTURE ,from pa ge 1
#41'/0-3
	
#&'-+/''0/

7-'1#4103
-+,'420/($

	


 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 

CONTA CT THE EDIT OR

opinion@ucs dguardian.org
When UC San Diego pledged to become
carbon neutral b y 2025, facult y wasted no time
in putting these claims to action. The schoolis currentl
y on track to have 30 percent of 
campus-provided food comin g from sustainable
sources b y 2020 and is workin g to move its
vehicles to renewable ener gy. However, UCSD
LV RYHUORRNLQ JD V LJQLÀFDQW FRQWULEXWRU WR LWV
carbon footprint: meat. Knowin g that the mea t 
industr y makes u p approximatel y 40 percent of 
global a gricultural product in the U.S. and has
a largel y negative environmental impact, pulling 
back on the amount of meat products servedon campus wi
ll serve as a vita l area on which
the school will need to focus its goals. UCSD
needs to shift its on-campus food selection to
have more more plant-based, environmentall y
friendl y options while adding sustainabilit y
workshops and programs to steer the universit y
in a m ore sustainable directi on.
The meat industr y has quite a large stake
in environmental harm. Animal agriculture
accounts for between 14 and 18 percent of global
greenhouse gas emissions, with beef releasing
four times the emissions of a caloric-equivalen t 
RISRUNDQGÀYHWLPHVWKDWRISRX OWU\,QIDFW
the am ount of carb on di oxide released fr om
producing one pound of beef is even greate r 
than that of burning a gallon of gasoline. Plant-based foods on the other hand produce three toÀYHWLPHVOHVVHPLVVLRQVLQWKH
SURFHVVRIWKHL U
production compared to mass equivalents of 
meat products. These numbers foretell that plant-based diets will have to be at the forefront of our 
WKLQNLQJIRUDVXVWDLQDEOH SODWHÀOOLQ JIXWXUH
Yet reasonabl y and ex pectedl y, not man y
people are read y to give u p meat. The Wall Stree t Journal recentl y released an article discussing
how the U.S. beef-cattle herd has increased b y 
12 percent in the past four years, and in 2017
a record 99.7 billion pounds of red meat and 
poultr y were produced. Companies such as 
7\VRQ)RRGV,QFDUHHYHQ SODQQLQJRQSXVKLQJ
meat production to increase b y 3.8 percent in
2018 through the construction of new plants 
and slaughterhouses. Evidentl y, consumption, 
and therefore production, of meat is steadil y 
increasin g.
Yet reducin g UCSD’s carbon foot print 
does not necessaril y mean giving up meat, but 
simply cuttin g down on individual consum ption. 
While UCSD moves toward more sustainable 
food offerin gs on cam pus, the o pportunit y-in-
hidin g directl y relates to educatin g students 
RQ WKH HQYLURQPHQWDO EHQHÀWV RI SODQWEDVHG
diets. UCSD can use its levera ge as a to p-rated
research universit y to educate students furthe r 
RQ WKH EHQHÀWV RI SODQWEDVHG HDWLQJ DQG WR
reinforce hea lthy and sustainab le diets for 
students’ futures. After all, the demand for plant-
based diets is growing; according to a recent 
study, the number of U.S. individuals identif ying 
as vegan has increased from one percent to six 
percent from 2014 to 2017. B y offering more 
plant-based options and educating on plant-
based diets, students would be encouraged to 
eat more sustainable food while decreasing meat 
consumption, thus pushing UCSD forward in its 
sustainabilit y goals.
Current resources students have to reduce 
their carbon footprints include guides fo r 
vegetarian and vegan dining, shopping lists 
for affordable organic foods, and links fo r 
various information on sustainable eating. But DWWHPSWLQJS ODQWEDVHGGLHWVIRUWKHÀUVWWLPH
FDQEHLQWLPLGDWLQJDQGGLIÀFX OWDQGOLQNVRQ
a website can onl y do so much. Education on
WKHVH GLHWV FRX OG EH H[WUHPH O\ EHQHÀFLD OI RU
students standing on the line between plant and meat meals, providing them with information 
DERXWWKHHQYLU RQPHQWDODQGHFRQRPLFEHQHÀWV
of plant-based diets. At an individual level, fo r 
instance, reducing meat consumption would
not onl y reduce methane levels released in the 
atmosphere, but would reduce water usage as
ZHOO,I$PHULFDQVLQFUHDVHG SODQWEDVHGIRRG
consumption from the current 15 percent up to 25
SHUFHQWWKHDPRXQWRIZDWHUVDYHGFRX OGIXOÀOO
two-thirds of California’s annual water needs.Even ignoring environmental issues, a plant-based diet is cheaper and healthier to maintain than a meat-eating diet. Companies aiming to be PRUHVXVWDLQDEOHKDYHHFRQRPLFEHQHÀWVDVZHOOThe
y can increase revenue b y reducin g waste, b y 
LPSURYLQJHQHUJ\HIÀFLHQF \DQGE\LQFUHDVLQ J
resource productivit y. 
UCSD has been makin g several innovative
movements in becomin g a more sustainable 
universit y. But as the universit y moves forwar d
with its sustainabilit y plans and commitments,
the HDH and Sustainabilit y facult y need to 
develop educative and immersive workshops to 
LQIRUPVWXGHQWVRQWKHEHQHÀWVRISODQWEDVHG
diets for the environment, as well as shifting 
IRRGRSWLRQVWREHLQJPRUHS ODQWEDVHG,QGRLQJ
so, UCSD’s sustainabilit y goals will not onl y 
positivel y impact the campus, but the y will also 
LQÁXHQFHVWXGHQWVLQZD\VWKDWWKH\PD\HDVL O\
take with them for the rest of their lives, slowl y 
shifting our generations to a more sustainable
future .    
By: Emil y Collins // Opinion Editorial AssistantTaking 
Hate 
Speech 
2II,WV
Platform
Whether it be a traveling “freak show”
from the mid-1800s or a presidential
campaign run b y a realit y-TV star in 
2016, Americans have alwa ys prioritized 
the most e ye-catchin g content, no matte r 
KRZVHQVDWLRQD O,QRUGHUWRFDSLWD OL]HRQ
this, ma jor media news outlets interview 
individuals who represent a niche secto r 
of the sociopolitical spectrum that 
generall y harbor bi goted ideolo gies. As a
result, mainstream media as a whole has
become a mechanism for gainin g more 
views at the risk of propagating harmful 
ideas. Mainstream media should no t 
call f or a rem oval of either c onservative 
or liberal voices, but it cannot give a 
platform to those whose o pinions work
to disenfranchise individuals based on
characteristics be yond their control. 
Rather, news outlets must recognize that b
y giving a platform to bigoted ideologies, 
more harm is committed than good .
This happened with Vice Media, a left 
leanin g news media com pany. Less than 
a week after protests turned violent last 
August in Charlottesville, V A, Vice put 
out “Charlottesville: Race and Terror.”The documentar y centered around Elle 
Reeve as she followed neo-Nazis during 
the event. While its intenti on was t o
expose these people as fostering hate 
and divisiveness, the manner in which
the piece was created did the opposite. 
This piece not onl y introduced neo-Nazis 
to a national platform, but essentiall y 
humanized their ideolo gy by puttin g faces 
to hate speech.  
Vice is not the onl y media compan y
guilt y of giving a platform to hate groups .From ABC to MSNBC, it is hard to tune into a news broadcast without seeing an interview with someone holding harmful
social views. When NBC allowed Me gyn 
Kelly, a conservative talk show host,
to interview blatant cons piracy theoris t 
Alex Jones, the y were telling millions
of marginalized people that gaining a
high number of views is more important 
than refusing to normalize his brand of 
fearmon gering. Media outlets abound 
with examples like these that cater to a
portion of the population who believe tha t 
freedom of speech mandates that media
companies give a voice to an y and all,
regardless of how malicious their views
are.
These instances are s ymptoms of a 
larger disease, one spread b y a number of 
spurious ar guments. Pro ponents of a “free 
market of ideas” argue that, if you don’t 
like what you’re seeing on TV , you can 
just turn it off. Unfortunatel y, it is not that 
easy. While this ma y be a viable solution 
for those who alread y reco gnize the
harm of these ideologies, for the average
American bi got, seein g someone whoBy: Jacob Sutherland // Contributin g Write rPolish president Andrze j Duda 
made headlines two weeks ago when 
he signed legislation “which makes 
LW D FULPH ³ SXQLVKDEOH E\D À Q H 
or up to three years in prison — to 
accuse the Polish nation of complicit y 
in the H olocaust and other Nazi 
atrocities.” For a countr y that housed
the gruesomel y famous Auschwitz 
concentration cam p durin g World Wa r 
,,WRGHQ\WDNLQJSDUWLQWKH+RORFDXV W
LV D KXJHSUREOHP ,W LV D EODWDQW
example of a government forcin g 
revisionist histor y down people’s 
throats. Poland is not the onl y countr y 
to have that problem however, as the
U.S. has struggled with revisionist 
history as well .
Some c ountries have taken the 
opposite stance on this b y passing 
“Holocaust Denial” laws and 
regulations, including war participants 
like France, Austria, and, most importantl
y, German y, Poland’s direct 
neighbor and primar y culprit of the 
::,,DWURFLWLHV
German y either outlawed o r 
destro yed Nazi propaganda and 
Nazi s ymbolism after World Wa r 
,, 7KDW GRHVQ·W PHDQ  KRZHYHU 
that the countr y shies awa y from 
its past, as the realit y of the wa r 
and the Holocaust is still taught in 
VFKRROV,QRUGHUWR SUHYHQWDQ \WKLQJ
OLNH ::,, IURP KD SSHQLQJDJDLQ
German y evolved into what is called 
a “defensive democrac y.” Accordin g
to news website V ox, “the idea is that democracies mi
ght need a boost 
from some illiberal policies — such as 
limits on free s peech and the dis play 
of imagery, in this case, connecte d to 
the Holocaust and the Second WorldWar — in order to keep ever
yone 
free.”
A name is notorious ly missing
from the list of countries with laws
banning holocaust denial, however. 7KH86LVQRWSDUWR
IWKHÁRFNR I
countries to have such laws, which leads a countr
y that fought the Nazis 
to end up tolerating them .
This past year, white supremacist 
and nati onalist dem onstrati ons have 
popped up all over the countr y, 
shining a new light on the complicated 
history that the U.S. has with who are
essentiall y Nazis. Fringe hate groups 
that were once on the peripher y now
occup y screen time across all ma jor 
news sources in a countr y that fought 
against bigotr y and anti-Semitism 
GXULQJ:RUOG:DU,,
Although the percentage of 
Americans who admit to holding 
anti-Semitic views has been steadil y 
decreasin g, the number of news, 
opinion, or feature articles containin g 
the sub ject of holocaust denial has 
continuall y increased. Holocaust 
denial and white nationalist views 
are generall y in vo gue in this countr y,
but you wouldn’t dare brin g this u p 
for fear o f crossing the “ freedom o f 
speech” line. Now, America’s refusal 
to confront its issues with racism and
anti-Semitism is a llowing neo-Nazis 
and white nati onalists t o move fr om 
their niche corners of the political 
spectrum into the spotlight. 
Most European countries like 
German y have learned from thei r 
past, and are now equipped to 
GHWHFW DQG F RQWURO KDWHÀOOHG QHR
nazi demonstrations. The y had to,
considering the y were still licking the 
ZRXQGVRIWKHKRUURURI::,,:HDUH
now in 2018, and between German y
and the U.S., onl y one allows for neo-
Nazi dem onstrati on. America was on 
WKHULJKWVLGHRIKLVWRU \GXULQJ::,,
but this countr y will continue to lose 
its moral high ground if it refuses toconfront its hate groups. “Just because 
VRPHRQH ÀQGVD
way to rationalize 
WKHLURSLQLRQGRHV
not m ean that it 
offers legitimate
solutions to political 
problems.”MARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDU
	

 	 

 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2018-19
MARCH 2, 2018Priority Deadline for filing the
FAFSA or CAL Dream Act Application is:
www.fafsa.govUse UCSD school code 001317.
Use UCSD school code 001317. www.CalDreamAct.org
If you need assistance, please contact the Financial Aid Office at (858) 53 4-4480.Students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents
can submit the FAFSA online at:  
Students who are AB540 eligible and who are not eligible to submit a FAFSA,
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:OR
Note:   You will be asked to provide 2016 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2018-19 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.

	

 By David Juarez
shares their ideologies validates thei r 
opinions, even though the purposeof conducting these interviews is to
expose these viewpoints as toxic.
Political c ommentat ors threaten 
that this will create a niche, radicalgroup of bigots who are even more 
emblazoned than before. However,
the opposite is true. B y not giving
a platform to bigotr y, hate harboring
individuals will likel y diminish
because the y are pushed to the
peripher y of political discourse
ZKHUHWKHLU SRWHQWLDOWRLQÁLFWKDUP
is limited .
An even more common argument 
against refusing to validate harmful
sociall y conservative viewpoints is
that this an infringement of the First 
Amendment. We must remembe r 
that free speech is technicall y only
guaranteed b y the government.
Freedom of speech is a right that does not mandate that others give 
VRPHRQH·VV SHHFKDSODWIRUP,ID
news organization does not wish to
interview someone, then it is not obligated to do so. This is alread
y the
standard practice for media outlets;
QHZVRUJDQL]DWLRQVÀ OWHULQIRUPDWLRQ
from all s ources t o determine what 
is and isn’t newsworth y to the
general public. What criteria media 
outlets use t o make this decisi on 
may vary, but conscientiousness is
an inherent responsibilit y for ever y
news compan y.  
But, as some neoconservative 
proponents would argue, there is a
need for a diverse range of opinions 
from all corners of the political
spectrum to be heard. While true,
there is a difference between having
a diverse range of opinions and
sharing ever y opinion. Political
discourse, however, can still carr y on with out the c ontributi ons of 
extremist groups. Just because 
VRPHRQHÀQGVDZD \WRUDWLRQDOL]H
their opinion does not mean that it offers legitimate solutions to
political problems. The mainstream
media has a responsibilit y to utilize
its freed om of ch oice t o decide 
whose opinions to validate .
The United States is grounded
in the principle that ever yone is
created equal. With that in mind,
if we are going to pride ourselveson this facet, then we must not 
allow opinions that take awa y this
fundamental freedom from an yone. 
We owe it t o those wh o have been
marginalized to create a news media
environment that h olds n o room for 
opinions rooted in hate .
	 
			


	

	 

	

	 
	
 
 



 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 

 
CONTA CT THE EDIT ORS
	
 
features@ucs dguardian.org
Startin g anew in colle ge is difficult enou gh for most
students, but a dd to t hat the stress o f transitionin g to
civilian life, and the e quation shifts quite a bit. Campus 
resources speci fically caterin g to stu dent veterans at UC San
Diego include the Veterans Affairs Hospital and Student Veterans
Resource Center (SVRC), but seemin gly, they aren’t enou gh.
The Guardian sat down with John Muir Colle ge junior 
Buyanneme kh Tso gtbaator (w ho goes by Neme kh), to discuss
his recent ordeal at the V A Hos pital. Nemekh, a transfer student,
descri bed the sur geries for his
torn pectoral muscle in jury —
a pain fully protracte d process 
that has dragged on from Ma y 
to Decem ber, an d even t hen 
remains unreso lved.
“Even thou gh I have UC
[Stu dent Hea lth Insurance
Plan], I fi gured I’ d go to the
VA  because I don’t have to
pay the co-pay. It took about
a mont h to actua lly see t hem,
almost a mont h, three wee ks, ”
said N emekh.  W hen the
surgery was finally performe d 
in late June, Neme kh was in 
a sling for ei ght wee ks, an d
then durin g physical therap y,
ever ything was healing well. However, he had to return to t he
hospital after t he area had become in fected.
“I started to experience a lot of pain, ti ghtness, and swellin g
around the area, ” Nemekh explained. “Eventuall y, the swellin g 
got to t he point w here t he tissue aroun d the sur gery site got so ft
and then busted open. ”
After initia lly denying that this was an in fection at a ll, the
surgeon an d physician assistant went further to dispute t he
possibility that Neme kh had cau ght the in fection from t hehospital itself, and actuall y blamed Nemekh for causin g it.
“They told me, it’s one of those thin gs where [I] irritated
[my] shoulder throu gh the ph ysical therap y or I actuall y lifted
weights. T hat’s w hat they told me, ” sai d Neme kh incre dulously.
“And I hadn’t lifted an y weights b y then! ”
This blame was further insinuate d when the hospital told him 
to let it close on its own b y not usin g his left arm or shoulder.
“And I didn’t. It didn’t go awa y. I came back a week and a hal f 
later. ”
Neme kh was prescri bed
antibiotics. When that did not
work, he was given a stron ger 
one, which was ine ffective 
yet again. T he whole time, he
had only seen t he PA, an d the
urgeon hadn’t even done a
proper p hysical evaluation.
“He just looked at it and 
aid, ‘OK. Tr y these antibiotics.
See where it gets you, ’” said
Nemekh. “For me , I didn’t
ike that. How can you just
hrow a bunch of antibiotics 
at me, t hinking that it wi ll just
go awa y on its own?” A fter
almost a mont h of constant ly 
comin g back to t he hospita l
and arguing with the doctor a bout t he nature o f the infection, he
insiste d on gettin g a cu lture done, but even t hat hadn’t helped.
“No improvements. I got this bi g gapin g hole in m y shoulder
now, ” sai d Neme kh. After waitin g for three wee ks for lab resu lts, 
the hospita l still did not know t he cause, an d suggested anot her
surgery to figure it out. At t hat point, it was Novem ber, an d right
in the middle  of Week 8 midterms. This made the decision evenThe Guardian speaks with Buyannemekh Tsogtbaator, a student veteran who received disappointing healthcare at the VA Hospital over a dragged-out period of six months and three surgeries.
by Susanti Sarkar // Features Co-Editor
w
o
y
h
s
p
s
S
N
li
th
a
g
a
c“F th VA
For some reason, the VA was
v
very hesitant on cu lturin g what I 
h
had. I a lmost felt like [they didn’t 
want to ta ke the blame for the 
infection], so I didn’t like that. I 
mean, w hat’s t he point o f havin g 
UC SHIP i f you can’t get your 
needs met, ri ght?” sai d Neme kh.
%&!%%#!$%	
%!"#%%##
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
SeeSTUDENT VETERAN Spage 7

  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
harder an d more con fusin g for Neme kh to ta ke, the balance
being even more s kewed than usua l for stu dent veterans. So he
decided to hold off. “Finals [were] comin g up. I would have to
drop a ll my classes an d pay the V A back the mone y I receive d 
for m y school benefits. ”
Eventuall y, Nemekh decided to take another route and see
someone from Student Health Services (SHS ). The doctor
and nurse practitioner were imme diately helpful and figured
out the cause  of the infection to be due to some anaerobic
bacteria. Un fortunate ly, the anti biotics t hey prescri bed were
a disappointment once a gain, and the V A kept insistin g on 
surgery. Then, Nemekh tried, with the help of the doctor at
SHS, to get an appointment t hrough UC SHIP at UCSD’s
orthopedic department, but a fter en dless postponing an d 
excuses on t heir part, even t hat trac k did not wor k.
“They kept sa ying, ‘We don’t want to take responsibilit y 
for your current condition because initial sur gery was done
by the V A, ’” explained Nemekh. “I was kinda taken aback b y 
it because I have health insurance wit h UC SHIP . I s hould at
least be able to get an appointment wit h ortho an d get their
opinion on w hat’s happenin g with my health.”
At the end of Novem ber, wit h an o pen woun d that was sti ll 
drainin g, another MRI at the V A Hospital brou ght concerns
of a bone in fection an d the necessit y of anot her sur gery had
increase d, so it was sc heduled in Decem ber — durin g finals 
week. Fortunate ly, Neme kh had understan ding pro fessors
that quarter. “I had to miss two finals, but m y physiolo gy 
and political science professors were super cool about it andwor
ked it out wit h me.”
But even t hen, s hockingly, the ordeal was not over. A fter 
waking up from anest hesia, t he doctors ne glected to give
Neme kh any follow-up instructions, an d performe d a shabby 
follow-u p proce dure a wee k later. Two wee ks later, Neme kh
found a suture pokin g out of his wound .
“I was like, ‘What the hell? Wh y is it left there?’” related 
Nemekh. “The next da y, I [saw another] one stickin g out. I 
was like, ‘what?’ so I tried to pull it out. I couldn’t pull it out
because it was sna gging on somet hing in there.”
As the wee k pro gresse d, he starte d noticin g multiple areas
where non-dissolvable sutures had just been left in there.
Unsurprisin gly, the VA Hospita l brushed it o ff, telling him, 
“We don’t know [the reason]. As lon g as it’s not causin g any 
problems rig ht now, leave it in t here. ” An d that’s t he situation 
he is sti ll in to day, after a lmost t hree drawn-out sur geries, wit h
a wound that is still not perfectl y healed .
“My biggest gripe with V A would be how the y handled the
infection a fter t he sur gery. Incompetence on t heir PA ’s part
and instructions I’ve gotten from m y surgeon, ” sai d Neme kh.
The stress t hat this situation placed on Neme kh, one t hat
was easi ly six mont hs long, is un fair on t he part o f UCSD’s
orthopedic department and especiall y the V A. Bein g pre -
med at UCSD is an especia lly difficult pat h, consi dering the
competition an d top grades it requires, an d to deal with so
muc h pain an d difficulty while taking upper- division exams
at the same time was no eas y feat.
“It reall y set me back academicall y because I could have 
been usin g that time to stu dy for m y classes or doing somet hing
other than sittin g at the V A for an hour or two to been seen
for m y appointment. ” An d even t hen, t he appointments
were never ta ken at t he scheduled time , and neit her was t he
responsibilit y for the dela y. “Their response was, ‘We have a
lot of patients. ’ Well, OK, ” said Nemekh sarcasticall y. “I guess Idon’t have an ything better to do than this.”
Along with the coup le of health care pro fessiona ls that did
try to help him, Neme kh also cre dits t he Stu dent Veterans 
Resource Center at UCSD (SVRC ). When he had to ma ke 
the difficult decision of takin g a quarter off to deal with 
the in jury, the coordinator at SVRC advised him to sta y in 
my classes, a decision he is grateful for bein g encoura ged to
take. “[In the end], I had actuall y had gotten throu gh all m y 
classes an d too k all my finals an d everyt hing wor ked out. ”
The coor dinator, however, was not comp letely surprise d by 
Nemekh’s experiences .
“She [had] heard the horror stories; it’s not a secret for the 
VA to do stu ff like this,” Neme kh told the UCSD Guar dian.
One o f his friends had gotten an MRSA in fection a fter
surgery for her foot at t he V A, due to a bone in fection, an d had
to sta y two weeks on antibiotics after the sur gery. Nemekh also
met an elderl y gentleman who had a sur gery around the same
time an d had gotten an in fection t hat wasn’t reso lved unti l
three months after June. “He actuall y ended up gettin g sepsis,
full on sepsis, an d had to sta y in ICU, ” sai d Neme kh.
Still, he cre dits UCSD for the help he got from t he SVRC 
while trans ferrin g, and the other stu dent veterans he met t here
and formed stud y groups with.
“Y eah, it was a bi g chan ge. Academicall y, it was challen ging
in the beginnin g. But we’re use d to committin g time into
things we want to do, being a veteran. Wor king hard is not a 
problem. In t he beginnin g, it was hard to actua lly know w hich
resources are available to you, especiall y like tutorin g centers,
office hours, discussion sections, an d things like that.”
Nemekh’s ‘work-hard’ mindset certainl y derives from his
trainin g from being in t he Marines, but so does his desire
to be a docto r. “I was a combat medic. I w orked with a lot
of physicians an d physician assistants an d I saw how muc h
a difference the y were makin g ever y single da y. I wanted to 
make that difference too ,” declared Nemekh. “I feel that’s one
of the unique t hings I’ve seen t hat I want to help those peop le
that are in n eed. ”
This admira ble goal that Neme kh has, an d the aspirations
of all other stu dent veterans at UCSD, s hould be encoura ged.
With the graduation rates of student veterans alread y lower 
on avera ge than civi lian stu dents, it is c lear t hat adjustin g
and dealing wit h college life after years awa y from forma l
education is extreme ly challenging, an d they should get t he
full benefits o f the resources promise d. The V A ’s behavior
disappointed Nemekh, because the priorit y should be to help
a patient, not to be so scare d of the conse quences an d not 
even try.
“For some reason, the V A was ver y hesitant on culturin g 
what I had. I a lmost felt like [they didn’t want to ta ke the
blame for the infection], so I didn’t like that. I mean, w hat’s
the point of havin g UC SHIP if you can’t get your needs met,
right?” sai d Neme kh.
Neme kh hopes that UCSD wi ll increase its awareness o f 
these pro blems an d try to focus on improvin g the pro blems.
“I almost felt like UCSD didn’t want to take an y part of it.
They maybe felt that I cou ld potentia lly sue t hem in t he long
run i f somet hing goes wron g. They were basica lly trying to
stay clear of it so that the y don’t have to have responsibilit y.”▶STUDENT VETERAN S,from pa ge 6
&$!%&# #		
	
@UCSDGUARDIAN	
"" A&E EDIT OR // ALICIA LEPLE R
	 	 
LIFESTYLE EDIT OR // ANNIKA OLIVES

	
	  


	



		
Afilm that spea ks socia lly, narrative ly, and visua lly.
Asuper hero film ou ght to ma ke us
feel incre dible. Though it should also 
tug at our heartstrin gs an d leave us 
dreadin g disaster, it is not meant to be a pure 
social commentar y. Some ma y want “Blac k 
Pant her” to have a more si gnificant messa ge
about current politics t han w hat it o ffers (or
not have one at a ll), but these are excessive
expectations o f a film that simp ly aims to
be entertainin g. “Black Panther” succeeds at
that: It’s light on its commentar y, con fident
in its performance, and is probabl y the first 
spectacu lar action movie o f the year.
Comic book fans, re joice; “Black Panther”
introduces its titular hero on familiar ground
while bringing uninitiate d au diences up
to spee d. Eons a go, a Vi branium-im bued
meteorite crash landed in Africa. Five warrin g
tribes com peted for t he meta l unti l one
warrior consume d a flower, touc hed by its
properties. He gaine d super human a bilities
and became t he first B lack Pant her, ru ler o f 
the five tribes and new nation of Wakanda.
Under his ru le, this kingdom t hrived as a
technological marve l centuries a head of its
time, but its peop le feare d that the outsi de
world wou ld sac k its resources an d wea lth.
Wakanda retreate d into iso lation, posin g asa simp le indepen dent a gricultural state w hile 
neither acceptin g nor offerin g international 
aid. (Notice an y modern para llels?)
Following the events of “Civil War, ”
the mant le of the Black Pant her passed to 
King T’C halla (C hadwick Boseman), w ho 
still grieves his father’s death. Boseman is 
impressive as a so lemn, dutiful monarc h. He is
stron gly loyal to his father an d to his countr y’s
traditions, wishin g to uphold their principles
and to preserve Wa kanda’s wa y of life.  Lea ding 
a countr y is difficult, however, no matter w hat
virtues or superhuman stren gth T’Challa has.
Defending the throne from c hallengers in
brutal ritual combat is no easier than keepin g
personal promises to friends and famil y. At 
times, he ma kes conse quentia l decisions, both
great an d sma ll, that dictate t he future o f 
Wakanda. Boseman’s dedication to t he part,
comp lete wit h a genuine A frican accent, is
laudab le.
Fortunate ly, he is backed by an equa lly 
stron g fema le cast, inc luding his p layful
prodigy sister S huri (Letita Wri ght) an d his
lovin g ex- girlfriend Nakia (Lupita N yong’ o).
They provi de him wit h the gadgets, t he
musc le, an d the emotiona l support t hat he
needs. Eac h actress brings her own power fulattitu de to t he table, on par wit h Boseman’ s
cool demeanor. Shuri esta blishes herself as 
the Black Pant her’s Q, tro lling her brother
with a kinetica lly-charged supersuit t hat
sends attac kers spraw ling. In anot her,
Genera l Okoye (Danai Gurira) swears her
fealt y to the throne of Wakanda, “No matter
who sits u pon it. ” The Panther’s heroic
entoura ge must be oppose d by menacin g
villains, an d Ulysses K laue (An dy Ser kis)
and Erik Killmon ger (Michael B. Jordan)
answer fierce ly. Ser kis’ dangerous ly jovia l air 
is hilarious, but Jor dan is perhaps Marve l’s
most complex and compellin g anta gonist yet. 
He vents his animosit y and frustration towar d
racia l oppression, his thoughts swir ling into a 
fanatica l, yet re latable, revo lutionar y ideology. 
The contemporary metap hor is stri king an d
speaks volumes for societ y toda y.
Spea king of po litics, it is a gain 
unreaso nable to watch “Black P anther”
through a pure ly partisan lens. It is, at its core,
a touc hing messa ge about communa l unit y 
and collaboration. This film has premiered 
at a time w hen re fugees, statesmen, blacks, 
whites, haves, an d have-nots are a ll uncertain 
of the future and sus picious of one another.
A com fortin g cue to come to gether an dsolve society’s ills is perhaps what is needed
now more t han ever. Sti ll, why shouldn’t we 
have a little ass- kicking and visua l spectac le 
on the side? From Wa kanda’s ma jestic an d
imaginative metropo litan s kyline to t he neon -
glow of Busan’s urban districts, there’s alwa ys
somet hing that catc hes attention. Braw ls
are jaw-droppin g too: W hen do beauti fully-
choreo graphed tussles, flippin g cars, and the 
breathtaking acro batics o f the Black Pant her
get old? Never.
“Black Panther” trium phs where previous 
solo-focuse d Marve l films have stum bled. It
touches human emotions more deeply than
others, w hile giving appropriate attention
to to day’s socia l climate. Suc h a narrative
says more than an y haphazard colla ge of 
computer- generate d ima ging and hamtastic
dialogue cou ld. Marve l and Disne y should pay 
close attention to t he enormous praise t hat
this film receives: It will serve their formula
for futu re titles well.
—	"!! #"
	


ys



! "&$
PHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL STUDIOS
Directed by   
Ryan Coog ler
Starring  
 Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. J ordan, L upita Nyong’o, Danai GGurirra,a, 
Martin  Freeman, Daniel Kaluu ya, Letitia Wright , Winston Duke, An geglaa Basset t
Release Date   
Feb. 16, 2018
Rated   
PG-13
C
PHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL STUDIOS
 PHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL STUDIOS“When We First Met” is about pit ying yet another guy who has been rele gated to the friend zone .
The new Netflix chick-flick , “When We
First Met, ” does not qua lify as a rom -
com because it barely contains t he
out-and-out romantic and comedic elements
of one. T he movie is dull, wit h a dearth of 
three-dimensiona l characters, funny writin g,
or even an endearin g, focal affair.  
After meetin g the stunnin g Aver y Martin
(Alexan dra Da ddario) at a Ha lloween part y,
Noah Ashb y (Adam DeVine) is hopelessl y 
smitten an d determine d to a lign his destin y 
with hers. But w hen t hey spen d the ni ght
together and end up at her home, he gets
undenia bly and unsurprisin gly friend-zone d.
Three years later, a smile y Aver y is betrothed
to anot her man , and a lovesic k Noa h is broken-
hearte d and inebriate d at Avery’s engagement
part y. Wit h impu lsive behavior, he revisits
the photo booth that the two had snappe d
pictures in t hree years a go. Ma gically and
miracu lously, the booth gifts him t he chance
to rewrite his fate wit h Aver y by transportin ghim to that notorious Halloween over and 
over a gain unti l he achieves his sore ly-sou ght
love.  
The film is a rippe d-off hybrid of 
“Groundho g Da y” and “About Time” that 
mashes the time-trave l and romance genres, 
but it definite ly does not matc h the ca liber
of those movies’ stor ytelling. It s hows Noa h 
trying different approaches to set his romantic
kismet in motion , but his different actions
create time ripp les, a lterin g variations o f his
life and character each time. From bein g
accuse d as a sta lker to becomin g a douchebag
to em bodying an a ffluent businessman, 
ever y time-and-space jump pulls him closer
to the girl of his dreams. Un fortunate ly, all
the skewere d time lines are uninspirin g as
the narrative overp lays the same formu laic 
shtick of Noa h redoing his prior actions. T he 
plotline rec ycles itself, becomin g predictable
and unamusin g to viewers. C liches are 
also re hashed, like Noa h being blindsided by Aver y’s existence an d ignorin g the more
compati ble love interest, Aver y’s friend, Carrie
(Shelley Henni g), an d the pe destrian lesson
that love cannot be forced.
But even t he platitu de of unre quited love
is overruled. After realizin g that Carrie is his 
ideal woman, Noa h imme diately abandons his
pursuit to bed Aver y and magnetizes towar d
the next attainable and available female. The
trope o f a man-c hild being rewar ded wit h
the instantaneous and serendi pitous love
of a girl after re jection is a possessive and
over done conce pt. It’s a lso poor c haracter
develo pment because Noah does not 
experience an y lingering or biting heartac he 
from his pro longe d, one-si ded infatuation. His 
character arc stifles, blockin g the emer gence 
of an intri guing stor y.
Some c haracters an d writin g also lack 
persona lity. However, A dam DeVine ma kes
up t he ma jority of the entertainment in an
otherwise comp letely monotonous come dy by usin g his usua l exu berance an d zaniness.
Shelley Henni g’s c hic-yet-ner dy portra yal
of Carrie is a lso c harmin g, heightenin g the
fraught dynamic between t he endgame coup le.
Both actors definite ly have mutua l, on-screen 
synergy an d comic banter; however, t he
screenp lay makes the mista ke of not handing
more limelight to t he simpatico pair .
“When We First Met” is a repetitive and 
unexcitin g romantic-come dy, filled wit h a
corn y, time-travellin g gimmick that fla gs after 
the first act. T here are exceptions in w hich
certain characters have re partee, but their
pleasant performances aren’t nearl y enou gh
to save t he half-baked narrative. A las, the film
is forgettable an d me diocre wit h no zest ful
quality to warrant watc hing.
—%!'"





"$%&&
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Directed by   
Ari S andel
Starring  
 Adam DeVine,  Alexandra Daddario, S helley Hennig, An drew Bachelorr 
Release Date   
Feb. 9, 2018
Rated   
PG-13
C	
@UCSDGUARDIAN	
## 10                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 0 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Like many young girls, I dreamed of my own wedding having luxurious decorations, a lavish 
venue, and a stunning white lace dress, with the man I so dearly love wearing a black suit waiting 
down the aisle for me. At playdates, my friends and I would have pretend weddings where we 
exchanged toy rings and where I played the bride, wearing a veil made up of paper towels and a 
plastic tiara. Like most people, I grew up wanting marriage as part of the next chapter of my life. However, as I grew older, this “dream” slowly vanished as I matured and realized that marriage is, to me, a socially-constructed idea. I imagine most people want to get married as a way to receive 
an official title, and that they believe marriages are associated with the idea of true love. But is 
marriage the only way to have true love? My parents have been happily married for over 25 years, and some of my cousins and close friends are now engaged to their significant others. With so many successful and loving relationships surrounding me, I wonder how I detached myself from the idea of marriage and view it as an overrated and expensive concept.
My disbelief surrounding marriages began around middle school. I overheard a conversation 
my teacher had with her friend’s daughter about the amount of stress she had when planning her wedding. The bride was not handling the wedding planning well, especially with the lack of her fiance’s physical and financial assistance. Furthermore, I learned about the legal troubles and 
high costs that are required for a divorce when a family friend went through the process. These 
conversations were very intriguing and got me to think about the true importance of marriage. Besides having financial benefits such as paying less income taxes or having more health insurance options, what does marriage actually bring me? For me, marriage is a ceremony hosted by a couple to celebrate receiving a piece of paper with their loved one while spending an extravagant amount 
of money. Simply put, marriage could be an emotional agreement between two people who need a 
confirmation of their love for one another. 
If I truly love someone, I do not need a piece of paper titled “Marriage Certificate” to prove as 
much. I do not need to take another person’s name to tell others that I love this person. I do not 
need to be married in order to live together, go on dates, and build a family to live as a “married” 
couple. I do not need to say “I do” in order to stay committed to one person. Ultimately, to have a blissful relationship together, a legal agreement should not be required as long as there is a mutual connection between the two people. Arguably, marriage could be a way to conform to society’s thinking of what is considered a family.
I am not anti-marriage; I do not hate marriages nor do I dread attending the weddings of others. 
In fact, I feel happy and sincerely congratulate couples during their wedding ceremonies. I, however, just cannot see myself holding a wedding in the near future with my significant other. Maybe my outlook and viewpoint will change within the next several years as I gain more experiences. But 
with all the current stressful planning and financial burden involved in receiving a piece of paper, 
I am proud to say I am more afraid of getting married than staying single for the rest of my life. Written by Rebecca Tsang // Lifestyle Contributing Writer Is Marriage Necessary?Time and people may change, but space can give the most ephemeral of fugitives a place to 
settle, even if for a bit. Falling in love doesn’t have to look like a typical boy-meets-girl narrative; sometimes it can take the shape of girl-meets-city. 
From 1996 to 2014, the mid-sized town of Bakersfield was all I knew. I could recognize the 
mountains edging the 99 Freeway even in the densest of valley fogs or the curves of the Kern River, even when the summer drought took its hardest toll. And I could mentally map out the vintage stores, old theaters, renovated tattoo shops, and homestyle diners that dotted my gridlock 
downtown. Say what you want about the Central Valley — and more likely than not, I’ d agree — but 
for 18 years, this little city was my home and heart.
Come September 2014, a few clouds hovering over the Pacific began to reestablish my home 
and heart. In the sunshine that lingers into the middle of February and sand that would always be 
there if I needed it, it became easier to leave what I knew existed only four hours away. San Diego 
might be a tourist destination for some, but I was determined to make it my own for the four years 
it promised me.
Though, temptations can come too. For a week, Portland beckoned me away from the sun with 
its rain. It was inviting — hospitable through every cup of coffee and whimsical in every quirk 
of its residents, books, trees and transit lines. Temptations also come with lessons. A trip to San Francisco reminded me why I loved San Diego instead. In the hurriedness and innovation of the 
North California skyline, I learned to be grateful for the slowness San Diego offered. 
But halfway through San Diego’s promised four years, I learned to love another city. 102 miles of 
freeway were daunting at first, but like anything else, the more it’s travelled, the more comfortable it gets. Two hours north — on a good traffic day — sits Los Angeles in a halo of smog and veganism. LA ’s a paradox in every way, with characters and stories that don’t go together crowded into different neighborhoods and parks, museums, and cafes. It’s for artists and creators, movers 
and leaders, and in my slow, San Diego, student lifestyle, I wasn’t necessarily any of those things. 
But a summer spent in this city taught me how the unconventional comes together, how there is 
brokenness and beauty etched into every sidewalk, and how even if I wasn’t typically LA in any way, there could be home for me there too.
All that to say, a lot of things happen in our college years. We grow, we fall, we learn, we change. 
But the cities we take from and give to can stay constant in the volatile, temporary nature of our twenties. In this modern love of ours, we’re conditioned to love what is temporary, so perhaps the spaces around us know how to hold our hearts best. As we learn to better love others and ourselves, may we look to the spaces around us for a bit of reassurance that though things come and go, there 
are places we can call home, even if for a little while. Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Associate Editor To My Cities, With Love THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
When most people think of modern love, what do the y ima gine? Surel y tales of unlikel y 
romance come to min d, where peop le find love in spite o f certain o bstacles life throws t heir way.
Well, my definition is a bit different. At m y current sta ge in life, there are zero dating prospects
present, but that’s been t he case for the past 19 years. As someone w ho was s hy when it came to both
dating and friendships, I a lways had a re lative ly sma ll num ber of peop le that I depen ded on w hile
growin g up. Because of m y lack of romantic ties, I have come to appreciate the simple pleasure o f 
having a se lect group o f friends I feel close to. 
When it comes to m y experience wit h friendship in co llege, I found that there was a wor ld of 
difference compare d to ear lier years. For instance, somet hing about living with my friends brought
us closer to gether ver y quickl y. Before startin g my freshman year, I found m y two roommates
throu gh Facebook, both as ea ger as I was to locate potential roommates. Flash forward to our first
meetin g in Septem ber, an d our friendship began to blossom. Havin g already exchanged messa ges
and Snapc hats throughout t he summer, we were a ble to s kirt aroun d the aw kward phase o f being
total stran gers w ho lived together in one room. I remem ber visitin g Roger’s Mar ket for the first
time, sittin g outside as we talked extensivel y about basketball anime, and still bein g awake in the
later hours talkin g about young adult books while lau ghing way too loud to be compl ying with quiet
hours. In my suite, I forme d my core group o f friends who I re lied on a lmost entire ly, an d I loved it.
Bein g friends wit h the peop le I lived with brought me muc h more joy than I cou ld have anticipate d.
However, t his honeymoon p hase was not ever ything I ma de it out to be. Severa l of my 
suitemates w hom I was c lose wit h were muc h more extroverte d than me, joinin g multiple clubs and
organizations to fill their time. Soon enou gh, the y made plent y of their own friends who the y spent 
time wit h, leaving less time for our group in t he suite to a ll hang out toget her. I watc hed my one
roommate start going to Geise l with her friends, an d as she came back late every nig ht, less o f her
free time was left open. Anot her suitemate became so busy with her clubs that she barely even s lept
at our p lace. T hough such a level of busyness felt norma l for them, I cou ldn’t matc h such a lifestyle.
I wanted to be gin colle ge at m y own pace, and I wasn’t read y to commit to an y club durin g my first
year. Un fortunate ly, that had some uninten ded consequences for m y socia l life.
My habit of keepin g a sma ll group o f friends was not faring well, as it seeme d that I felt a
stron ger sense o f closeness to t hem t han they did to me. W hen I gifted Christmas presents to m y 
closest friends before Winter Break, the y were all surprised to receive thin gs from me. And thou gh
they did return the favor when school started a gain in the new year, I couldn’t i gnore this na gging
feeling that they wou ldn’t have given me an ything if I had not done so first. M y insecurit y led me
to believe t hey had only bought gifts out o f obligation rat her than friendship. T hough friendship
obvious ly isn’t measure d by the amount o f mone y spent on presents, t he seemin g lack of reciprocit y 
within the interaction bothe red me.
I t  a p p e a r e d  a s  t h o u gh I took up a small fraction of m y friends’ lives while the y were
overw helmingly present in mine, inevita bly causin g a pit o f loneliness to form. I found this all
the more c hallenging to deal with because my loneliness didn’t follow me home; I cou ld live in
my hometown durin g the summer an d spen d days wit h minima l human interaction, yet this was
different. Spen ding a wee kend alone in m y apartment was a lmost su ffocatin g. When I experience d
this, I realized that livin g with m y best friends onl y emphasized the silence that arose when the y 
were gone. T his further intensi fied in t he beginnin g of my secon d year, w hen one o f my close
friends had gone back to Santa Bar bara an d my other roommate was spen ding almost a ll of her
time wit h her boyfriend.  
I didn’t know how to solve this problem without actin g selfishl y toward m y friends who had their
own lives, so I set out to fix it some other wa y. I stru ggled to match the standard of sociabilit y thatwas set by the peop le I knew, leading me to t hink this pro blem was brought about by my own bad
habits. If I became busier and took more chances, would I be able to help m yself? I’m not too sure
this is the answer, but I do think focusin g on m y own growth has helped. Appl ying to internships
and practicing my writing has kept me focuse d on t he future, w hile my free time is spent attemptin g
to socia lize. Even t he simp le act o f making plans wit h my existin g friends has improve d my friend
group’s dynamic; t hings like Sun day brunc h and watc hing the sunset are per fect opportunities for
us to bond. Thou gh it’s not perfect in an y sense of the word, I think m y life has become a bit happier .
My definition of modern love isn’t about romance, but I think I can understand certain feelin gs
associate d with relations hips. T he insecurit y about won dering whether a friend values you as 
muc h as you va lue them appears simi larly in t he dating scene. An d although the two s hare some
characteristics, friendship isn’t a p laceholder for romance, in m y humble opinion. Frien dships have
their own value that can’t be underestimated, even when certain friends are too bus y with other
things. Like all love, the fact that I care is what causes m y sense of hurt in the first place. Love isn’t
always reciproca l, a fact t hat has ma de itse lf obvious in our messy, mo dern- day rea lity. But at t his
point, I’ ll take what I can get.Written b y Jade Hookham // Li festyle Contributin g Write r
 ! 
12                               T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 0 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Touch has always been something unnerving. So casual, but all too intimate, that it was difficult 
to pinpoint what the barrier was. Hugs from people I just met were jarring, and even familiar touches 
from friends seemed unnecessary.
It was uncomfortable and hard to process — so I shut it away. Perhaps it was my own rigid definition of touch that contrasted the soft edges of it. To me, touch 
was a spectrum of discipline or praise; you either achieved something worthy of a hug or you made a mistake earning nothing but a firm scolding and no reassuring arm rub. Touch was something to be attained, a privilege. It was never something out of comfort or “love, ” but an awkward sensation that bordered on whether my actions deserved it. 
If I did not perform well, then what warranted the privilege of touch?This perception began to falter when I met a friend who will be referred to as “L. ” We were eleven, 
fresh into fifth grade, and she grabbed my arm so excitedly that it was difficult to register. She was taller than me, with radiant eyes that glowed in the sunlight and a personality to match. Guiding me to the class lines, she giggled amiably about our budding friendship and turned to grasp my hands 
within hers. Though perplexed, I simply let the gesture continue and smiled along, unease tingling 
in my gut as we began to walk to class.
L was generous in her friendly touches. She loved to embrace, to hold hands — to give soft pats 
on the back for nothing and grab your arm so tight in overt excitement. I did not understand why she was overzealous with it, nor what I did to deserve gestures that were reserved for achievement. 
“Why do you hug me so much when I haven’t really done anything?” I laughed with her one day 
on her front step. L tossed me an amused look and nudged me gently with her shoulder, “It’s what friends do!” 
“Just randomly?” I withheld, my mind buzzing with confusion. Instead, I nodded and gave her a hesitant shove back, both of us chuckling at our shared exchange.
L continued to be an affectionate person, 
even as we grew apart and drifted to different groups come middle school. But, her impact 
was raw; it questioned the foundation of my 
own perspective of touch and how it could be handled. How it came out of love, care, and generosity — how it was meant to be redistributed as an act of endearment rather than a prize to be attained.
When I joined my swim team halfway through middle school, new intersections of touch 
began to emerge. When relays placed first, we celebrated in joint slaps on the arm and a group hug. In contrast, when I lost my backstroke race by a mere second, my own disappointment was accompanied by supportive strokes to my back and a reassuring embrace that only elevated my 
spirits, despite the sense of defeat.
The everchanging expression and definition of touch helped me understand that it was a range 
of platonic or romantic affirmations; that it did not have to have a precedent of praise in order to be 
a valid expression.
It is not complete yet, but my understanding has progressed such that I know it is okay to 
reciprocate when I receive a hug or a friendly pat by the hands of the acquitenance. I know it is okay to receive a random kiss on the cheek from my partner, and to return said gesture by laying my head on their shoulder.
The physicality of it all is peaceful, and the touch of kindness is something that everyone deserves.Written by Lizzy Adams // Lifestyle Sta ff WriterThe Physicality of Touch
It takes a village to raise a child. Or in my case, an entire street fair. This street fair, located in the 
parking lot of my hometown’s one and only community college is home to a variety of unique and interesting characters. My earliest childhood memories include me running from booth to booth looking at new art pieces for sale, sipping lemonade slushies, and dancing to live bands under the desert palm trees. While my friends were watching cartoons in their homes, I was talking about 
life with the elderly vendors who sold pastel-colored clothing and calling the jewelry guy “Cookie 
Monster” because he was grumpy and always wore blue.
I was fortunate enough to interact with vendors from all around the world. Some vendors had 
college degrees while some had barely made it out of high school. Some were very religious while some were not. When I found out the makeup vendors were not mother and son, but were two people in a committed relationship, I realized couples can come in all shapes and sizes. When I learned that a vendor man from Cuba and his best male friend were not best friends but something more, I was angrier at the fact that they couldn’t get married than the fact that they weren’t straight. It was at the street fair that I saw people love each other even though they weren’t all the same. It 
didn’t matter who you were, you would still have an array of people butting into your life in a way only friends can do.
In addition to my loving single mother, I have also grown up with an unofficial extended family. 
When I have a project for my linguistics classes, I have dozens of vendors to talk to about their 
home language. When there is a fundraiser, I have 100 vendors ready to buy whatever unnecessary desserts they can. Whenever I need advice on anything that is bothering me, I have hundreds of 
different perspectives to help me get through it all. The street fair is more than just vendors setting 
up booths every weekend, but friends and family that have each other’s backs.
The luggage vendor I have known my entire life has always said, “It’s important to have friends, 
but remember this: friends come and go, but mom doesn’t. Y our mom is there for you, always. ” And while he’s entirely right, I would like to propose an edit to these words of wisdom. Not only will my mom always be there for me, but so will the people of the street fair. These vendors have told me to study hard my entire life because they did not want me to “end up” like them. What they don’t know is that they have helped me grow into the person I am today, and I aspire to be at least half the accepting, hard-working, and caring people that they are. I know the street fair isn’t always perfect, 
but then again, what family is?Written by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Contributing Writer Street Fair Family 	 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 
ASCE PRESENTS: XAVIER OMARTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 20 - FEB 252018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANTUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20

	
	

every MONDAY
in The GuardianCalendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguardian.org3pm
WISE MIND - GALBRAITH HALL 190
Emotional + Mind + Logical Mind = WISE Mind. 
WISE mind is when both parts of the mind work together in harmony. Learn how to effectively tolerate everyday stressors, communicate effectively while maintaining self-respect and relationships, and improve your relationship with your emotions while living a life in accordance to your values. Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
3:30pm
OUTSIDE THE BOX FORUM - 
TRANQUILITY ROOM, CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal group is a safe space for students, 
faculty, and staff of mixed/multiracial/multi ethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open and supportive, community atmosphere. This forum is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Please contact Dr. Thompson if you plan to attend. Contact: cathompson@ucsd.edu
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMENS CENTER
Join us for an informal conversation about our 
experiences as Black women and connect with other Black women on campus. Contact: dbesson@ucsd.edu
5:30pm
DISRUPTOR SERIES: FEMVC - THE 
BASEMENT, MANDEVILLE CENTER
Join us for a panel discussion on Venture Capital 
moderated by Greg Horowitt '80. Panelists will delve into a conversation on approaches, share their individual perspectives, and engage in a Q & A session on Venture Capital. Contact: thebasement@ucsd.edu
8am
CAMP KESEM AT UCSD: 5K 
CATERPILLAR CRAWL - UCSD CAMPUS
Welcome to Camp Kesem at UC San Diego's 
annual Caterpillar Crawl 5K! Come join CK at UCSD where you can run, walk, or even crawl with us in this super fun Camp Kesem 5K! There will be free food, opportunity drawings, games, and many more fun activities! All proceeds will help send a child affected by a parent's cancer to a free, week-long summer camp! Contact: ucsd.pr@campkesem.org 
10am
16TH ANNUAL BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH SCHOLARSHIP BRUNCH - PRICE CENTER WEST BALLROOM
All students are invited to enjoy a Southern-style 
soul food brunch with music by Grammy-winning trumpeter Curtis Taylor. The event will also include recognition of student scholars and a silent auction. Student tickets are just $5, and all proceeds from the silent auction support the UC San Diego UJIMA Network Scholarship fund. Contact: blackhistorymonth@ucsd.edu
11am
HAWAI'I CLUB'S SHAKE DAT 'OKOLE 
BEACH WORKOUT - LA JOLLA SHORES
Come workout with Hawai'i Club on the beach! No 
hula or tahitian dance experience necessary. 9am
TARGET OPEN HOUSE - THE 
FORUM, PRICE CENTER EAST, LEVEL 4
UC San Diego students are invited to an Open 
House on Wednesday, February 21 to learn about a possible small Target store locating on campus. Campus leadership encourages UC San Diego students to attend, learn more and share their input. Contact: jadegriffin@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN: DE-STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management. Come to the Zone for a free one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
3pm
NAVIGATING YOUR IDENTITIES IN 
THE WORKPLACE - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Part of navigating identity in the work place is 
understanding how privileged identities show up as well. This session will offer all attending an opportunity to reflect on how privileged identities impact their work and how to use those identities to create just work places. Contact: violetag@ucsd.eduWED 2.21
SUN 2.25TUE2.20
2pm
ASIAN WOMENS FORUM - MUIR 
HALF DOME LOUNGE
Join us for informal conversations about our 
experiences as Asian women. Members determine the topics which can include: Academic stress, Family and gender roles and challenges, Cultural identity, Relationships, Career directions, Social justice concerns, and mental health and well-being. Contact: ltappero@ucsd.edu
3pm
PEACE OF MIND- DAILY DROP-IN - 
GALBRAITH HALL 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but 
you wish to learn how to navigate them better? In the Peace of Mind workshops, you will learn how to live in the moment, manage your emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness, and identify what is really important to your life. Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
6pm
LET LOOSE IN SEUSS! GEISEL OPEN 
HOUSE FOR GRAD STUDENTS - GEISEL LIBRARY
Graduate students! You are invited to a special 
after-hours event in Geisel Library. Come check out the Library without the crowds and explore some of the great resources and spaces available. Activities at the Open House include: Scavenger Hunt, FREE food and beer! Meet and greet with librarian research specialists, explore the Digital Media Lab and much more! Co-hosted by the Library, the Graduate Division, and GSA. Contact: gradlife@ucsd.edu11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
You will receive a computer generated analysis 
with the following information: body weight, body mass index (BMI), percentage of body fat, calculated basal metabolic rate (BMR), fat mass, fat-free mass, and total body water. Email the following information to studenthealth@ucsd.edu to make an appointment. Please use the subject line "Secure: Body Composition Analysis". Contact: studenthealth@ucsd.edu
3pm
FLOURISH @ UC SAN DIEGO - 
STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well 
at UC San Diego? Dr. Morgan Anderson and a Wellness Peer Educator provide informative and interactive exercises to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, and self-compassion with Dr. Morgan Anderson. Contact: caps.ucsd.edu
5pm
GEOLOGY IN GENEVA GLOBAL 
SEMINAR INFO SESSION - STUDY ABROAD OFFICE DANCE HALL (UNIVERSITY CENTER 409)
Get ready for Valentines Day! Show your loved 
ones appreciation by giving them a homemade gift. Shine bright & craft a luminary mason jar or keep it sweet & simple & make them a cute card! SUPPLIES ARE LIMITED AND IT IS A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS. Free for UCSD Students w/ ID. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
SNEAK PEAK PREVIEW OF GAME NIGHT - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Come out for an SNEAK PEEK preview of Game 
Night! Jason Bateman and Oscar nominee Rachel McAdams team up in New Line Cinemas action comedy Game Night. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.du
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: XAVIER OMAR - 
PC EAST BALLROOM
Rising R&B/Soul artist Xavier Omar is coming to 
UCSD on February 20th! Student tickets are only $6, make sure you cop yours soon at the UCSD Box Office! Contact: ascemarketing@ucsd.eduFRI2.23THU 2.22PC EAST BALLROOM
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 	




	
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classiﬁeds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Baseball hats
5. 15th of March
9. W heat by-pro duct
14. Columbus’s st ate
15. Papa ’s partne r
16. Indian group
17. Malicious
18. Pur ple fruit
19. Pro fessional s peedste r
20. Aquatic mamma l
22. Move back
23. Revere d
24. Icy precipitatio n
26. Most or derly
28. Neit her’s m ate
31. Freon an d oxygen
35. Of sound min d
36. Ficti onal clownfish
37. Female rule r
39. Gui ded
41. Not ever, poetica lly
42. Yiel d
44. Pioneer Daniel ___ _
45. Complete
46. Artist Henri ___ _
48. Sight or smel l
49. Ru bs ou t
54. Conform s
57. Give a ri ght to
58. Juan’s father
59. Ban gkok nativ e
61. Double a gent
62. Church le ader
63. Average (h yph.)
64. Happily ____ a fter
65. Gets u p
66. Jur y mem ber
67. Bears’ lairsDOWN
 1. Punctuation mark
2. In front
3. Liberace’s instrument
4. Radar’s kin
5. Hin der
6. Valle y
7. Ostrich’s ki n
8. “C heers” barten der
9. Lane
10. Digestive ___ _
11. Pilaf in gredien t
12. Still snoozin g
13. “The Way We ____ ”
21. Keye d up
22. Put back to zero
24. Train stop (a bbr.)
25. Telescope parts27
. Items of value
28. Fiddling empero r
29. Prop hetic si gn
30. Traveled on horseback
31. Kell y or Autr y
32. Hymnal wor d
33. Went fast
34. Mess u p
36. “The M atrix” her o
38. Rea ds quic kly
40. ____ & Roe per
43. Game c ube
46. Par king timer s
47. 12t h-grader
48. Shopping frenz y
50. Pointed a gun
51. Range
52. Actress ____ Bursty n
53. Clairvoyant s
54. Imitator
55. Painter Sa lvador ____
56. Finds a sum
57. Li ghten
59. Recipe measure (a bbr.)
60. Weedin g implementPART TIME JOBS
Independent Me dical Sales Re p. Scri pt
Relief. San Diego, CA 92101. We’re looking 
for enthusiastic sales reps to go to doctors ’ 
offices and leave behind kits o f these cards
at the reception desk and other accessi ble
areas. In order to facilitate the process for
our re ps, our sales team uses a s pecial
website that provides listings o f available
doctors in your area. We wi ll also provi de
training to acc limate you to t he w hole
business.........ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
for more inf ormation
Registered Nurse. Read yNurse. San 
Diego, CA 92101. We are hirin g quali fied
Registered Nurse’s (RNs) for a travel sta ff 
opportunit y with an esta blished compan y
in the Thousan d Oa ks, CA area. Position
requires a Registered Nurse candidate to 
have recent experience wor king in a nur s-
ing home.........ucsd guardian.or g/classi fieds
for more inf ormation
Energy Sales Consultant. Broadway Energy 
Us. San Diego, CA 92101. Broadwa y Energ y
Inc specia lizes in t he Procurement/Rate
Reduction of Business and Residential
needs. From So lar Energy to LED Lig ht, we
serve from coast to coast and have proudlybeen doing it 
for the last 7 years now. We 
are lookin g for talented individual to join
our Sa les Team..........ucs dguardian.or g/clas-
sifie ds for more inf ormation
HOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 -
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Die go,
CA, 92115. T he Dorc hester Apartments
community in San Diego o ffers pet- friendly
one and two bedroom a partment homes 
with com fortable, spacious, and bri ght
open floor plans.Our communit y features 
a large spar kling swimmin g poo l, beaut i-
ful court yards, BBQ areas, free reserved
parking, on-site laundry facility, on-site
management, 24 hour emergenc y maint e-
nance, WiFi hotspots avai lable in common
areas t hroug h Cox Communications......uc s-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationCollege Campanile Apartments. $1,415 -
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego,
CA 92115. These floor plans include s pa-
cious one, two an d three bedrooms, some
poo lside or upgra ded. Being locate d in
the heart of the college area you will find s
hopping centers, banks, a library, sc hools,
freewa ys and more. Enjo y amenities such as 
a refreshing Ol ympic sized swimming pool,
24 hour emergenc y maintenance, on-site
laundry facilities, WIFI hotspots in the co m-
mon areas through Cox Communications,
a stove, a dishwasher in some a partments, 
and cable an d internet rea dy.....ucs dguar d-
ian.or g/classi fieds for more in formatio n
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our
other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE 
assigned parkin g, a re freshin g pool and
BBQ, on site laundr y facilit y, 24 hour emer -
gency maintenance, and a courtyard fou n-
tain. We hope you will call or stop by andwe look 
forward to making The Diplomat
your new home!....ucs dguar dian.org/c las-
sifieds for more in formatio n
AUTO
2009 SmartForTwo Pure. O ptions Inc luded:
Rear Wheel Drive, Manual Steering, FrontDisc/Rear Drum Bra kes, Wheel Covers , Stee l 
Wheels, Tires - Front Four-season, Tires -
Rear Per formance, Intermittent windshield
wipers, Aux Audio Input, Cloth Seats,
Bucket Seats, Leather Steerin g Wheel, 
Remote-contro l entr y, Powere d door locks,
All vehicles go t hroug h a lengt hy presa le
inspection process to assure our custo m-
ers the peace of mind they are looking for.
….ucsd guardian.or g/classifieds for more 
information
New 2014 Subaru XV Crosstrek. San Die go,
CA 92111. Bo dy Style: Wagon Exterior Co lor:
Satin W hite Pear l Insi de co lor: Y Mi leage: 0
mis..…...ucsdguardian.org/classi fieds for 
more in formation
2012 Ja guar XF. Ja guar San Die go is hon-
ored to present a wonder ful exam ple o f 
pure vehicle design... this 2012 Jaguar XF 
only has ten miles on it and could pote n-
tially be the vehicle of your dreams! The XF
“s pristine attractive looks were com bined
with Ja guar”s hi gh standard o f excellence
in order to make this a unique find. There’s 
no need to look any further. Jaguar San
Diego has the perfect match for you. This 
Jaguar inc ludes: Premium Pac kage I inc lud-
ing back-up camera...... ucs dguardian.or g/
classifieds for more in formation
W
\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUPLVVLRQ
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
*(7$)5((
4827(72'$<
PDGHWRRUGHU#XFVGHGXwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising



	



 	
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team moved to 14–6 
in California Collegiate Athletic Association play following a loss against Chico State (56–66) and a win against Humboldt State (77–57). After starting o ff the season 
strong and holding second place 
in conference standings, the 
Tritons have slid down to third place. They are now tied with Cal 
State San Marcos for the third-place spot, behind second-place Chico State and conference-leading Cal Poly Pomona. 
vs. Chico State
The Tritons played well 
against Chico State in the first 
half despite trailing 8–0 to start the game. UCSD fought to regain control of the game and traded baskets with Chico State. Both teams were evenly matched for the most part and, going into halftime, the score was 34–33 in 
favor of UCSD. 
The Tritons started the second 
half slowly, letting Chico State pull ahead early with a seven-point lead, 45–38. The Tritons 
answered back with jumpers by junior guard/forward Christian Oshita and senior forward Kenny Fraser. Chico State sank a three-pointer to keep the Wildcats ahead, but two Triton three-pointers from redshirt freshman guard Mikey Howell and junior guard Christian Bayne tied the game up at 48–48 with 10:54 remaining.
Just when it seemed like the 
momentum had swung back in favor of the Tritons, the Wildcats went on a scoring run, pulling ahead by nine points with 4:44 remaining. UCSD, however, struggled with scoring and were unable to regain control of the game. As the buzzer sounded, UCSD fell to Chico State, 56–66. 
Bayne and Oshita led the 
Tritons in scoring with 14 and 10, respectively. The Tritons were 
outrebounded by the Wildcats — Chico State pulled 11 o ffensive 
rebounds compared to UCSD’s five. The Wildcats scored nine 
points o ff second-chance points 
versus UCSD’s two points. 
vs. Humboldt State
Rebounding from their loss 
against Chico State, the Tritons dominated the Humboldt State Lumberjacks, 77–57. In a standout showing, UCSD never trailed against Humboldt State. The Tritons led by more than 
eight points for most of the game. The first half was a stomp by the 
Tritons, and Humboldt State could not find an answer.
The Lumberjacks did, 
however, cut the lead down to two early on in the second half. Despite their scoring run, the Lumberjacks were outmatched by the Tritons. Following the run by Humboldt State, UCSD quickly turned up the intensity, easily notching a 10-point lead with 10 minutes remaining in the game. The Tritons built on this 
10-point lead and finished the 
game up by 20 points, 77–57.
UCSD shot very well from the 
field, finishing with a 49.2 field 
goal percentage and shooting 36.7 percent from behind the arc. Four Tritons finished in double-
figures: sophomore forward Scott 
Everman (16), Fraser (10), Bayne (24), and Oshita (14). 
UCSD has two more games 
remaining in the season; both are at home. The Tritons will 
play  Cal State Dominguez Hills on Thursday, Feb. 22. Tipo ff is 
scheduled for 7:30 p.m. To the tune of “ Arirang, ” an ancient 
Korean folk song about longing and 
unification, the Korean Olympic 
delegation — a combined group of North 
and South Korean athletes — closed out the 
2018 Winter Olympics opening ceremony. 
Dressed in all white, symbolizing peace, 
the athletes marched out under the 
Korean Uni fication Flag (a white flag with 
a blue silhouette of an undivided Korean 
Peninsula) carried by one North Korean and one South Korean member of the 
joint Korean women’s hockey team. The 
message of the opening ceremony was clear: unity and concord.
Just months earlier, North Korea was 
threatening to derail the Winter Olympics. In late September of 2017, countries, like 
France, Germany, Austria, and even the U.S., expressed serious concerns over 
security, threatening to skip the Games for 
the safety of their teams. North Korea was 
seemingly more dangerous as the games 
neared; earlier that month, North Korea conducted its fifteenth nuclear missile test 
of the year (it would go on to test one more 
in November). Moreover, PyeongChang is roughly 40 miles from the demilitarized 
zone, the bu ffer zone between the two 
Koreas, and less than 200 miles from 
Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. 
At that distance, North Korea was more than capable of majorly disturbing the 
Olympics.
In the last South Korean Olympics 
(1988 Seoul Summer Olympics), North 
Korea attempted to do just that. When it was announced that Seoul would be 
hosting the 24th Summer Olympics, North Korea saw an opportunity. It proposed to 
the International Olympic Committee and 
to South Korea a joint Korean Olympics, but negotiations fell through. Abandoning 
all pretexts of unity and diplomacy, 
North Korea boycotted the 1988 Summer 
Olympics and resolved to disrupt the 
Games. In an attempt to frighten teams from attending the 1988 Seoul Olympics, 
North Korean agents planted a bomb on Korean Air Flight 858 traveling from Seoul to Baghdad; while flying over the Indian Ocean, the bomb detonated and destroyed 
the airplane, killing all 125 people (most 
of whom where South Korean) on board. Despite that, the 1988 Seoul Olympics took 
place as planned and were a tremendous 
success. South Korea was able to display 
its rapid economic development and social 
growth, paving the way for it to enter the 
international community; North Korea, on the other hand, became more isolated.
North Korea — despite its actions of 
the prior year — has taken a markedly 
different attitude towards the Games 
at PyeongChang. In these games, the 
two Koreas fielded a shared women’s 
hockey team and marched together in 
the opening ceremony; North Korea also sent a large group of musicians and a team 
of cheerleaders. Kim Y o Jung, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, traveled with the North Korean delegation 
to the Games and met with South Korean president Moon Jae-in. This was the first 
time since the Korean W ar that a member 
of the North Korean ruling family set 
foot in South Korea. Moon was very 
encouraged by North Korea’s participation 
in the PyeongChang Olympics: “ There 
have been many achievements in 
advancing inter-Korean talks, and I hope that this will lead to an improvement in 
inter-Korean relations. ”
Using sports to open a diplomatic 
dialogue has worked in the past. Take 
the case of the People’s Republic of China and the U.S. In the years following Mao 
Zedong’s 1949 communist revolution, the U.S. ’ relationship with the PRC had been 
marked by Cold W ar propaganda, trade 
embargos, and diplomatic silence. But a fter 
nearly three decades, both nations were looking to open a dialogue with the other. 
In 1971, an opportunity for both nations 
emerged in a very unexpected place: The 
31st World Table Tennis championships in Nagoya, Japan. A chance meeting 
between American table tennis player Glenn Cowan and Chinese table tennis 
player and three-time world champion Zhuang Zedong would spark a chain of events that would lead to the li fting of the 
“Bamboo curtain. ” A fter practicing late 
one day, Cowan was forced to board the 
Chinese team bus; there he met Zedong. 
Though from adversarial nations, Zedong treated Cowan cordially, gi fting him a 
silk-screen portrait of the Huangshan 
Mountains; Cowan reciprocated with a t-shirt with the Beatles’ lyric, “Let it Be. ” 
This unexpected good will between an 
American and a Chinese, which was well-
documented by journalists, gave the PRC 
the opportunity they were looking for. 
Mao officially invited the U.S. table tennis 
team to visit China; the team accepted. This was a monumental trip: It marked 
the first time an American had step foot 
in China since the Chinese Community 
Party came into power in 1949. What Time 
Magazine called the “ping heard round the 
world” was already resulting in diplomatic 
results. Four days into their visit, Nixon announced that the U.S. would be easing 
travel bans and economic embargoes on China; the government would soon open back-channel communication with each 
other. The following year, the Chinese 
table tennis team was invited the tour the 
U.S. But the most groundbreaking e ffect 
of what would become known as “Ping-
Pong Diplomacy” was Nixon’s 1972 visit 
to China. Nixon — the first US president 
to visit China — met with the leaders of the PRC and took the first step towards 
de escalating tensions and normalizing relations.
Sport is an unexpected place to begin 
international relations. As Nixon wrote in his memoirs, regarding Sino-American relations, “I had never expected that the China initiative would come to fruition in 
the form of a ping pong team. ” Sports are important tools for diplomatic chess. They 
are innocuous ways for nations to express 
larger political goals, opportunity for 
interface between adversarial nations, and 
are a source of national pride. However, 
sports are not the panacea to diplomatic 
dilemmas; they are a starting point. In order for the symbolic message behind them to materialize, there has to be an 
underlying desire and willingness on both sides. Though there is no guarantee that 
the PyeongChang Olympics will resolve 
the crisis on the Korean Peninsula, North Korea’s willingness to participate is a 
reason for optimism.
Tritons Rebound Sports and Diplomacy
UC San Diego dominated the Lumberjacks. Staff Writer Wesley Xiao examines the tensions between North and South Korea.
BY  R i c h a r d  L u
Associate Sports EditorBY W e s l e y  X i a o
Staff writeR
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.eduWesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G
UC San Die go @ Chico State —
Chico, CA
With a Ca lifornia Co llegiate
Athletic Association re gular-season 
champions hip already in t he books
and the to p ran k secure d for t he
upcomin g CCAA tournament, t he
UC San Die go women’s basketball
team looks to success fully close
out the last two road games before
postseason.
OnThursday night, the Tritons 
defeated Chico State 67–55 after
trailing by three at t he en d of the
third quarter. In a competitive,
hard-fought game an d wit h the
score tied at halftime, UCSD found 
a wa y to put t he pieces to gether an dtook home anot her victor y.
Multi ple Tritons filled the stat 
sheet contri buting to t he overa ll 
come-from-behind team win . After 
six tie d scores an d four lead changes
in the third quarter, senior guard 
Taylor Tanita executed in response 
on the offensive end. Tanita drainedffff
three c lutch three-pointers in t he 
last 10 minutes o f the game, one
of which too k the lead wit h 5:46 
remainin g.
Junior guard Kayla Sato led the
team wit h 16 points, accumu lated 
from fi ve field goals, one three -
pointer, an d three free t hrows. In
addition, Sato grabbed six boards
and tallied two steals  and two assists.
UCSD cau ght fire in the fourth 
quarter as the team shot a solid 50 
percent (7–14) from t hefield. The Tritons a lso performe d perfection 
from the free throw lin e in the
entiret y of thefirst half.
Senior forwar d Da layna
Sampton followed closel y behind
Sato wit h 15 points an d 10 re bounds
while re dshirt sop homore Mi kayla
Williams recorded 12 points and 12 
rebounds.
At the two minute mar k, UCSD 
held a comfortable five-point lead
that on ly continue d to expan d
befo re the final buzzer sounded.
UC San Die go @ Hum boldt 
State — Arcata , CA
Havin g trave led anot her four 
hours nort h from C hico, the Tritons
suited up Saturda y evenin g to face
Hum boldt State w hile chasing a
perfect 12–0 recor d in awa y games.
Williams guided UCSD to a 77–62 triumph providin g 19 points of her
own an d two re bounds short (8)
from h er twelfth doub le-doub le on
the seaso n.
Ahead by just four after thefirst 
quarter, UCSD went on a roll before 
heading into t he locker room,
stretc hing the lead to 22 at t he half.
As a unit , the Tritons s hot above 
50 percent in a ll but one quarter an d a 
rewardin g 61.5 percent in the fourth
quarter a lone. S harp s hootin g from
Sato an d Tanita com bined for a tota l
of 27 points, 17 and 10 respectivel y.
Sato a lso facilitate dfive assists and 
collected  seven rebou nds.
UCSD ca pitalized on Humboldt’s 
mista kes, scorin g 14 points off of itff
13 turnovers. Wit h plenty of secon d
chance o pportunities on offense theffff
Tritons did not fail to maintain thebleeding.
Sam pton listed 16 points and 10 
rebounds, dominatin g the boards
defensive ly. Sop homore guard 
Sydney Sharp san k two t hree-
pointers in herfirst appearance
back after missin g five games due to 
an an kle injury to a dd to t he score
parade .
Superior in just a bout a ll
statistica l cate gories from points to
rebounds to assists , UCSD was able
to comp lete its long four- day tre k 
on a positive note an d return home
fulfilled with two more win s.
The Tritons wi ll play Cal State
Domin guez Hills on Thursda y, Feb.
22 at 5:30 p.m. in RIMAC Arena.
The UC San Diego baseball team
began conference pla y, at home,
against San Francisco State in a four -
game series where the y looked to get
offto a winning start.ff The winning
had to wait after the first game as t he
Gators too k Game 1 , 4–1 , however
the Tritons came back to win Games
2 and 3 to go into t hefinal game wit h
a chance to ta ke the series.  In t hefinal
game, UCSD held a 4–0 lead throu gh
four innin gs, but then came a woeful
fifth innin g as t hey gave up six runs
to let the game s lip awa y as t he final
score at the end stood  at 7–5. Both
teams had to s hare t he honors on t he
weekend as t hey split the series at
Triton Ba llpark and both start offtheirff
conference seaso n with a 2–2 r ecord. 
Game 1
UCSD fell short in the series o pener
as the y had to settle for a loss as San 
Francisco took their o pportunities in
Game 1 leading to a 4-1 score line.The 
Tritons, surprisin gly, stru ggled to get
runners in as t hey left an eye openingft
18 tota l runners on base, inc luding
bases  loaded  in thefirst,fifth, ei ghth, 
and ninth innin gs. 
Efficienc y was key in the matc hup 
as the Tritons had double the amount
of hits the Gators did (10–5 ), however
UCSD cou ld only mana ge one runthe whole game, w hile San Francisco
earne d four runs wit h half of the hits.  
Offensively, redshirt junior Alex ffff
Eliopu los led the charge as t he third 
base man hit four of five and one RBI.  fifi
Besides Eliopulos, onl y one other
Triton had multi ple hits, redshirt
junior Zander Clarke went two for
four.
Game 2
Game 2 serve d as re demption for 
the Tritons as t hey had a simi lar game
to Game 1, in terms of gettin g runners 
on base, but this time ma de most o f the
opportunit y to crush Gators 10–2 in
thefirst of the two games on Saturda y.  
UCSD had 15 hits in t he game an d
in their first opportunity o f runners
in scorin g position, t he opportunit y 
was ta ken as t hey hit in two runs in 
the second to take an earl y 2–0 lead.
The Tritons reall y got going in the
third as the y earned five runs to take afifi
commandin g 7–0 lead.  
In the end, both teams put in 
two runs in ei ghth to ma ke it a final 
scoreline of 10–2. 
This time around , UCSD had five fifi
players with multiple hits, hi ghlighted
by junior R j Prince as he hit three o f 
five with two RBI’s.  fifi
Game 3
After a dominant displa y earlier in
Satur day, the Tritons aime d to rep licate 
the resu lt and they did just t hat wit h
a narrow 5–4 win. After going down4–0, UCSD mounted a last minute
comebac k to earn back-to-back win s
on Satur day’s seven-innin g game.
San Francisco State put two runs in
thefirst to ta ke the ear ly 2–0 lead and it
would remain t he same score line unti l
thefifth innin g.The Gators a dded 
another two runs for wh at looked like 
the be ginnin g of a dominant displa y;
however , the Tritons had other ideas.
The come back wou ld begin in t he 
bottom o f the fifth as t he Tritons got 
two runs back to ma ke it 4–2 an d a 
managea ble score going into t he final
innin gs.  
After no runs in the sixth , the 
seventh had plent y of drama as UCSD
had a three-run rall y to take the win .
After a wa lk, a hit an d a player hit 
by a pitc h the Tritons had the bases
loaded. Prince got t hings going wit h a
hit down t he middle to t he pitcher, but 
the pitc her en ded up s lippin g which
put Prince on base an d the score at
4–3.  Once a gain, the Tritons found a
bit of luck when Elio pulos hit the ball
to the second base man and could not 
get the ball o u t  o n  t i m e  t o  m a ke the 
out. Wit h the error two runs came in
for the Tritons to give t hem t he win .
Game 4
In a letdo wn final game for the
Tritons, the Gators took the Sunda y 
7–5 win to s plit the series over t he
weekend.
Things began on t he right foot forUCSD as t hey got o ff to a great startff
and looked to be on course to take the
series win with a 4–0 lead throu gh 
four innin gs; however San Francisco
State had other plans. 
It all went down hill for the Tritons
on the top o f thefifth as the Gators had
an incredible comeback  with a six-run
innin g to put UCSD on the back foot. 
San Francisco then added one more
run in the sixth to make it 7–4.
In the final inning, t he Tritons 
attempte d a come back once a gain, butcould only get one run in before it was
all over an d done wit h.
Next up for the Tritons, t hey wi ll 
go up a gainst Cal State Domin guez
Hills in a split venue series startin g on 
Thursda y, Feb. 22. The first two games
will take place at Triton Ba llpark, then 
the series wi ll conc lude at Dominguez 
Hills. CONTACT THE EDITO R
	
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
     f
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAME SW B asket ball
Baseball
M Bas ketball
Softball
Baseball2/22
2/22
2/22
2/23
2/235:30  PM
6 PM
7:30 PM
3 PM
4 PMvs. Cal State Dominguez Hill s
vs. Ca l State Domin guez Hi lls
vs. Cal State Dominguez Hill s
vs. Cal State San Marcos
vs. Cal State Dominguez Hill s
% "
&$	 #$"Tritons Move to 19-1 After Two Big Road Wins
Next up, UC San Diego plays Cal State Dominguez Hills on Thursday, Feb. 22 at 5 p.m. at RIMAC Arena.
PHOTO BY KYOKA MATSUNAGA // UCSD GUARDIAN
% ""#

! '
&%& UC San Diego Splits Homestand Against SF Stat e
Despite holding a 4-0 lead partway through Game 4, the Tritons fell flat for the rest of the game to go 2-2 overall against the Gators.
"
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS

!' !"% "
"#"