A series of gropings on campus 
occurred on Monday, Oct. 1 from 
around 7:15 pm to 8pm. A campus-
wide email was sent out from UC San 
Diego Police Department the next day, and more incidents were reported in the days a fter its release.
According to the timely 
warning, two women were touched inappropriately by an unidenti fied man 
at the Price Center Starbucks. One of 
the two women said that he placed one 
of his hands over her buttocks.
In the message sent out by campus 
police on Oct. 2, they state that surveillance video suggests there have 
been other cases of similar misconduct that have gone unreported. Campus police have deemed this to be an 
“ongoing series.”
As Laura Margoni - Interim Senior 
Director with Creative Services and Publications - told the Guardian, 
campus police believe the incidents 
were clustered around the Price Center area. 
In the days following the timely 
report, more incidents of sexual battery - all with similar descriptions - have been published in campus police logs.
An incident reported as happening 
on the same day as the event in the timely warning, according to the logs for Oct. 3, describes another sexual battery happening on Library Walk. Another occurrence of sexual battery 
in which a woman’s buttocks were grabbed was reported as happening at Goody’s Market in Thurgood Marshall 
College, and published in Oct. 4’s logs.
In chronological order, the reports 
describe the first couple of sexual 
batteries happening in Price Center around 7:30, then on Library W alk 
between 7:30 and 8, and finally at 
Goody’s market between 7:50 and 8:15. 
The earliest reported sexual battery 
for that day says that an unknown male “slapped” the victim over her buttocks in Price Center. 
As of the time of this article’s 
drafting, the suspect has not been 
identified. VOLUME 52, ISSUE 2  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 8, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Arts & Humanities 
Division Awarded Significant Grant
The National Endowment of the Arts 
gave the department the maximum 
amount, $750,000, for a new building.
The Division of Arts and 
Humanities at UC San Diego has 
been awarded a $750,000 grant from 
the National Endowment for the 
Humanities, a federal agency and one of the largest national funders of the humanities. 
The award is examined by 
independent and external reviewers and is designed to create and renovate humanity infrastructure. Given the maximum amount 
eligible, UCSD’s Division of Arts 
and Humanities is also honored with recognitions from the NEH and the nation. 
Division of Arts and Humanities 
Dean Cristina Della Coletta is quoted in a press release as saying, “This funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities 
acknowledging that a top, public 
university serves its students best by giving them a well-rounded, complete education that includes 
arts and humanities as much as 
science and mathematics. ”
In fact, the data collected by 
arts and humanities’ press release presents a positive prospect for arts 
and humanities education at UCSD.
According to the release, UCSD’s 
overall undergraduate enrollment in 
the arts and humanities has grown 
by 25 percent since 2013, with new 
enrollment up 68 percent. Forty-five percent of students who apply to UCSD in arts and humanities are offered admission. 
The study of art and humanities 
has its own significance at UCSD, as stressed by Della Coletta. 
“ Arts and humanities at UC San 
Diego teach the responsibilities of what we call ‘social citizenship, ’ and remain committed to the rewards of free inquiry, diversity and equity, and experimentation, ” Della Coletta 
is quoted as saying in Unions Press. 
“Our students develop minds that give them the versatility needed to 
succeed in a complex and volatile 
world. ” 
The funding from the NEH 
will support the construction of the North Torrey Pines Living and 
Learning neighborhood, which will 
be located between John Muir and Thurgood Marshall Colleges. The building will be the campus’ largest 
architectural project. Together with 
Sixth College and the Division of Social Science, the Division of Art and Humanities will make the complex its new home in the Fall 
Quarter of 2020.
In addition, the grant will also 
strengthen the education of art and 
humanities. 
UCSD CAMPUS
BY Zhuoying  Lin
Contributing Writer 
Unidentified Suspect Commits Series of  Sexual Batteries Across Campus
A member of the men’ s baseball team rounds a base at a May 2018 game on W arren Field. Photo by Henry Chen // UCSD Guardian  
[Correction: Th e main image of the Wombats featured in Volume 52, Issue 1 was by Hope Ho ffman-Larson, not Francesca Hummler.]
In July 2018, UC San Diego introduced the 
newest update of its ongoing University’s 
Long Range Development Plan, which 
includes the creation of a recreational facility at the 
Torrey Pines Gliderport. Funding for the plan has 
not yet been determined and is pending approval 
of the UC Board of Regents. The comprehensive nature of the project aims at providing additional 
student amenities while preserving the Gliderport 
as a historic landmark and space for public utility. 
Though still in its preliminary phase, the 
tentative projections — which would only apply to the glider runway — include the construction of an 
exercise loop with a decomposed granite path and 
obstacle courses, a rugby field, two soccer fields, a staging area for construction and field operations, 
a water detention basin to account for runoff, and 
at least 300 parking spaces. Additionally, there is also the possibility of raising a building intended 
for staff offices and a restroom. Upon finalization 
of the feasibility study, the university must then acquire funding for the proposal to begin. 
In an article published in La Jolla Light, Todd Pitman — UCSD Assistant Director in charge of Physical and Community Planning — noted 
the significance of adequate distribution towards 
the various uses of the land, saying, “The most important thing, from my point of view, is we are 
really truly trying to do the right thing with this 
land. We see our solution as a win-win for the site. Recreation is a big deal, and history is important, 
so our proposal overlaps with open-space planning 
and university planning. ”
The UCSD Guardian spoke with Interim 
Senior Director of University Communications Laura Margoni who then provided a coordinated 
explanation on behalf of the evolution of the 
recreational center at the Gliderport as a part of the LRDP as a whole, and the role of contending 
parties in the developmental process.
The university also values the input of  local 
organizations involved in protecting rightful use of the land such as Save Our Heritage Organization 
and the Associated Glider Clubs of Southern California, engaging stakeholders in the elaboration 
of the project, and acknowledging the needs of the By Rebeca Camacho      Senior staff WriterCOMMUNITY
UCSD Unveils Proposal to Build Recreational Center at GliderportPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
ON GUNS 
IN AMERICA
The Guardian 
interviews three 
students about the 
state of gun rights 
and gun violence in 
America. 
CAREER  CENTER
TORONTO   FILM   FESTIVALHiring  MOre  St aff
The  best  films  of  the  yearOpinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “The UCSD 
administration has 
a role to play in 
determining the need 
for a more diverse 
range of spiritual 
resources. No current 
data on student 
religious affiliation is 
publicly released by 
the university. ”MONDAY
 H 74 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 61
TUESDAY
H 75 L 59
THURSDAY
H 74 L 60
THE ECON TUTOR........4
TYAGARAJAN...............5
OFFCAMPUS GUIDE..10
C.R.A. REVIEW............12
NFL BREAKDOWN......15ADMINISTRATION
Jacob Sutherland
Spirituality
 PAGE 4Surveillance video and additional reports revealed other similar incidents following an email alert from the police.
BY Tyler Faurot
News Editor 
See GRANT,  page 3See GLIDERPORT,  page 3
Tyler Faurot    tfaurot@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TABLING By Michi Sora
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Lauren is not 
ready for Jeopardy, but who is these days. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
The eighth floor of Geisel Library 
reopened during a commemoration 
ceremony held on Monday to 
celebrate the refurbishment of the 
floor to update the facilities. Closed for construction since September of 2017, the renovation is the most 
recent phase of the Geisel Library 
Revitalization Initiative — a long-term plan to update the library’s most-used spaces. 
Students at the reopening 
ceremony gathered together in a cordoned-off section of the floor to hear University Librarian Erik Mitchell acknowledge the work that 
has gone into the renovations and 
redesign.
Mitchell thanked the Library 
Student Advisory Committee for being “instrumental in helping 
pick the layout and the furniture, ” 
and thanked A.S. President Kiara Gomez as well.
Gomez, addressing those in 
attendance, highlighted the library’s efforts to involve students in the 
process.
“Students were at the center 
of the conversation because we 
spend countless hours in this lovely building, ” Gomez noted. 
She also noted that the library, 
as well as its many resources and staff members, played a crucial role in students’ developments and 
ventures.
After the ribbon was cut, visitors 
were able to roam about the top 
floor of the library to admire the new furniture and take part in 
various activities. Stations were set 
up where students could receive a chair massage from FitLife, build their own zine, get snacks, and take 
pictures in a green-screen photo 
booth. There was also a number of raffles that students could enter for prizes such as bookstore gift cards or new Bose headphones. 
Mitchell pointed out additional 
power strips at the tables, as well as new Wi-Fi nodes for more comprehensive internet coverage on 
the top floor. “It’s kind of the wave of how 
many libraries are being renovated now,” Mitchell told the UCSD 
Guardian. “There’s a lot of study-based spaces here, and every desk has more power and connectivity. ”
One librarian told the Guardian 
that students commonly complained that the restrooms were “scary, ” and that with the help of student input, the restrooms and water fountains 
have been renovated.
The number of seats on the floor 
increased from about 140 to 176, 
while also leaving enough space to 
move around the floor. 
In order to conserve energy, the 
UV film has been redone on the 
windows to help keep the building cooler during the day, reducing 
power usage. The eighth floor 
also utilizes LED lights, which dim automatically when nobody occupies the space. 
Executive Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs Elizabeth Simmons also spoke briefly, pointing out the visual crossroads that are highlighted by the vantage point the eighth floor affords its visitors.
“ As you look out the windows, 
you see the trees, ” Simmons said in reference to the north-facing view. “You can imagine where the world sort of ends beyond as the ocean 
beckons. You can look [to the east] 
and see bits of the Stuart Collection floating above [Matthews] quad. You  c an  s e e  t h e  f utu re  c om i n g your way as the light rail is being 
constructed. You can see all your 
friends down on Library Walk, very diligently trying to get other people to join the clubs that they are very 
proud of. And with all of that, you 
can see all of the university, present and future surrounding you here. ”
The next phrase of the GLRI, 
scheduled to begin in the 2019-
20 academic year, will involve the 
renovation of the first and second floors of the library.
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Geisel Reopens Newly Renovated Eighth Floor of  Library As Part of  Long-Term Remodeling Project
Visitors participated in a variety of activities celebrating the library’s significance, such as zine-making, massages, and photo booths.LIBRARY
BYTyler Faurot 
NEWS EDITOR
Tyler Faurot tfaurot@ucsd.edu
As department of history 
Professor Luis Alvarez states it in a 
press release, “The grant will enable 
us to more effectively advance our 
vision of bringing students, staff, faculty and community partners together to explore and put into 
practice the many ways arts and 
humanities enrich our campus and 
region. ” UCSD Chancellor Pradeep 
K. Khosla believes the grant will advance the university as a whole.
“With this support from the 
National Endowment for the 
Humanities, ” Khosla said in a press 
release, “UC San Diego will become a leading voice in the national 
debate on the role of humanities in 
the 21st century, one that includes disciplined and expert engagement with the ethics and social impact of cutting-edge science. ” NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Prof. Alvarez: This Grant Will Help Our Vision for Students, Campus
▶ GRANT , from page 1
Zhuoying Lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu
▶ GLIDERPORT, from page 1Commuter Students Concerned by Parking Implications for New Developments
campus and community.
The Torrey Pines Gliderport is 
located in the California Coastal 
Zone. It is recognized in the State, National and San Diego Register of 
historic landmarks as early as 1992, 
and the recreational center would require review and approval by the 
California Coastal Commission.
As far as funding is concerned, 
the LRDP must be approved by the UC Regents, who are expected to 
meet in November of this year. 
When asked how the breakdown 
of funding for the LRDP occurs, Margoni and the collaborating UC representatives gave the following 
explanation:
“The Regents do approve an 
entire LRDP (...). However, the LRDP does not itself ‘approve’ 
individual projects. Once funding is identified for a project, each project goes through its own individual review by the campus, and UC 
Regents when required. ”
Actual implementation of 
the plan is foreseen for as early as 2020, due to current staging of 
construction equipment for the North Torrey Pines Living and 
Learning Neighborhood that started 
in June.
UCSD students who commute 
and regularly utilize the Gliderport to park adjacent  to campus would be the ones most affected by the 
new space.  
Stephanie Begle, a Roger Revelle 
College junior majoring in Political Science/International Relations 
who commutes daily to campus and parks at the Gliderport, spoke to the 
Guardian on her concern of how 
this may impact parking.   
“Building [the recreational center] at the Gliderport is going to take away a significant amount of 
free parking from UCSD students 
who park there because it’s a short walk to campus and may find 
the school parking permits too 
expensive, ” Begle stated. “It’s free parking for the public and those 
who use the Gliderport. In a city 
where free public parking is already scarce, this poses a major con. ”
Students who wish to voice 
feedback on the LRDP should remain alert for upcoming forums 
and surveys that will be conducted 
to provide information on individual projects as plans for funding release 
in the future.
Rebeca Camacho    rlcamach@ucsd.edu
follow  
us  on
 twitter
@ UCSD        GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Unsurprisingly, most undergraduates 
are worried about finding the right jobs, the 
right careers, and getting into postgraduate programs. Given these concerns, the staff at UC San Diego’s Career Center remains too small to meet the needs of its growing student population. If UCSD aspires to be a “student-centered institution,” it should provide more expert career staff to guide us, not just leave it to Google.  
The current lack of professional staff 
compromises students’ ability to get valuable, individualized career guidance. The Career Center currently provides one-on-one appointments with nine professional career counselors who are shared by UCSD’s over 30,000 undergraduate and graduate students. To put that in perspective, last year there was one career counselor per every 4,000 graduate and undergraduate students. With that ratio it is easy to see why obtaining one of these precious one-on-one appointments, especially with a counselor who is a good fit for a student, is extremely difficult. Without easily accessible one-on-one appointments, UCSD students often must guess, or take questionable advice, about key elements to their future happiness and success such as what major to choose, which career to pursue, which opportunities to take, and more. 
 There are other sources of career-related 
advice on campus outside of one-on-ones, but these resources are more limited. Online resources, for example, answer some of the easier questions such as how to make a cover letter or what tests to take for graduate school. However, these fail to bring the in-person expertise and training required for potentially life-changing decisions. Undergraduate peer advisors, while helping fill in some of the gaps, are also understandably restricted; they lack the years of schooling, training, networks, and experience that students require and deserve to reach their full potential. Even the few open hours of walk-in professional career 
advising are not enough to account for the 
difference. These limited and packed hours are often incompatible with busy class and work schedules, restricting student’s ability to attend. Inevitably, these narrow slots from just a few counselors disproportionately bar low-income students who already face less access to career and graduate school information. Thus, adding more professional staff would have a large and lasting impact on students. 
Increasing the staff at the Career Center could also revolutionize UC San Diego’s alumni. By introducing more professional career counselors UCSD would craft stronger alumni and boost university prestige. Additionally, alumni who feel that UCSD went the extra mile for them would be more willing to invest in current students. In the realm of psychology there has been a lot of support for the power of gratitude to affect change. One such psychologist, Dr. David DeSteno, argues in his book, “Emotional Success: The Power of Gratitude, Compassion, and Pride,” that people who have been helped, and felt gratitude for it, are more likely to help others. By showing students more individually-tailored career consideration and personalized paths to their career goals, the university would foster fulfilled and appreciative alumni who would likely contribute to the success of future Tritons. Successful alumni and enhanced career opportunities also bolster the university and reflect well on all of us. 
Having more professional staff in the Career 
Center would alleviate many of the above concerns and inevitably give more students the ammunition to succeed in an area they’re more likely to enjoy. For many people their career provides them with an identity, lifestyle, and considerable source of satisfaction or frustration. If the administration wants to prove it cares about students, it should respond to students’ anxieties about their futures with increased access and assistance. Churning out degrees is not enough. 
STUDENT TO STAFF RATIO AT CAREER CENTER 
DEMONSTRATES DISREGARD FOR STUDENT SUCCESS
BY GEENA ROBERTS // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
GEENA ROBERTS  g1robert@ucsd.eduAs the year begins, fresh economics 
students receive leaflets in most of 
their economics classes. In those leaflets, theEconTutor and a bunch of his students advertise how well 
theEconTutor helps them complete 
their courses, learn the material and score high on tests. These leaflets further urge the students to get “the 
Quarter Pass” for $175 to go to any 
review session theEconTutor provides, or simply to pay $30 for an individual session. However, his courses are questionable in quality, especially next 
to the resources already provided by 
the economics department. The lack of an explicit and uniform statement from the department regarding the 
tutor, as well as decentralized and 
hard-to-navigate academic resources, leaves the department with an ever-growing number of undergraduates paying to theEconTutor to help them. 
TheEconTutor, Eric Kyner, has 
taught UC San Diego economics students for more than 16 years after he himself dropped out of the UCSD 
Ph.D. economics program. At first, he 
gave one-on-one sessions to struggling undergraduates, but in 2002 he was escorted off of campus by campus police for trespassing. Undeterred, he 
moved to an off-campus operation 
which has grown significantly in the years since, and he now provides tutoring for over 20 UCSD economics 
courses.  
The broad scope of his curriculum, 
and his pervasive advertisements, 
creates several problems in the economics department. Most 
importantly, economics courses are 
graded on a curve, so if those students who get help from theEconTutor score higher, students who did not 
or could not pay for his service are 
put at a disadvantage. Many students started considering theEconTutor as 
a resource mandatory to succeed in 
economics courses.  
The actual quality of his tutoring 
also leaves a lot to be desired. In his 
sessions, he does not explain most 
of the material but instead goes over the solutions to many problems in class. Two-hour sessions where students are fed all the solution to 
homework and previous exam 
problems do not encourage developing a deep understanding of a material and productive learning habits. 
These previous exam problems are 
also allegedly acquired illicitly, which would explain the strict no-copy policy for his material.
While the economics department 
has recognized the problem, it has never come up with an official position. In 2005 when two professors from the department interviewed for 
The San Diego Union-Tribune article 
about theEconTutor, they formulated two contradictory opinions. “We’re lucky to have Eric. I’m an economist. If students are willing to pay, I’m not 
against my students learning anything, ” 
Melissa Famulary, professor and vice chancellor of Undergraduate Studies and Instruction in the economics 
department, said. Marc Muendler, 
professor in the department of economics argued instead, “he offers no value-added. He flunked out of our Ph.D. program. He failed it. ” 
The department tries to compete 
with [Kyner] by offering more and The Center for Ethics and Spirituality 
comes across as an on-campus resource 
for students from any number of religious 
backgrounds to find the help they need with an emphasis on their own personal beliefs. While its website claims that it 
offers secular counseling, lectures about 
spirituality, and other workshops, the content of these services leaves much to be desired for equitable access to 
spirituality for those who either identify 
with religions outside of the Western norm or hold non-religious beliefs.
This trend is clearly seen in the 
services the center provides. One need look no further than the entrance of the building to see the type of religious 
hegemony followed, as a life-sized 
cardboard cutout of the Pope greets students as they approach the office space. However, the true motivations of 
the center are made clear in the type of 
counseling provided. The “diverse” range of spiritual counselors offered cover Judaism and the Christian denominations 
of Episcopalianism, Methodism, 
Catholicism, and Unitarianism. The Center’s website does not provide any 
counselors with backgrounds outside of the Western religious norm.
These offerings leave much to be 
desired in the realm of promoting and 
accepting religious diversity at UC San Diego. Many students, regardless of spiritual background, will likely have 
their beliefs challenged at some point 
during their college experience. This type of experience often has the ability 
to foster personal growth. However, it 
is beneficial to these students to have 
someone representing their spiritual backgrounds who they can go to when 
questions arise about their own beliefs.
The blame cannot be solely placed on the Center, however. The UCSD 
administration has a role to play in 
determining the need for a more diverse 
range of spiritual resources. No current data on student religious affiliation is publicly released by the university. 
Despite this, students coming from both 
the United States and abroad are likely to practice religions other than those covered by the center. In 2016, out of the 
top 10 countries international students 
attending UCSD call home, eight have a majority of citizens practicing religions 
other than Christianity or Judaism.
Considering that UCSD is a secular 
public university and not a private 
religious institution, there is no 
requirement that any religious services 
be provided. However, by offering the Center for Ethics and Spirituality, the university is rightfully affirming that 
religious affiliation merits just as much 
resource allocation as race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, disability, and others. By providing religious programs only 
accessible to students from a select 
number of religious sects, not only is 
See RELIGION, page 5 ▶
“The Career Center 
currently provides one-
on-one appointments 
with nine professional 
career counselors who are 
shared by UCSD’ s over 
30,000 undergraduate and 
graduate students.”
See TUTOR, page 5 ▶Ambivalence From 
University Opens 
Doors for Massive 
Third-Party 
Operations
BY REVEKKA GERSHOVICH // 
ASSOCIATE EDITORSelective Religious Resources at 
UC San Diego Exclude Members of 
Non-Western Faiths
BY JACOB SUTHERLAND // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
“By offering the Center 
for Ethics and Spirituality, 
the university is rightfully 
affirming that religious 
affiliation merits just as 
much resource allocation 
as race, ethnicity, gender, 
sexuality, disability, and 
others.”OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
toWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By Anthony Tran
▶ TUTOR, from page 4
more resources: more office hours, more review 
sessions with better qualified TAs, and more online instructional material. Unfortunately, a lot of struggling students are unaware of the available resources, so they end up pursuing 
the more straightforward and better advertised 
option — theEconTutor.  Therefore, even though the department has done a very good job at improving its resources, theEconTutor simply 
markets himself much better. 
TheEconTutor’s persistent advertising, 
combined with the difficulty in navigating through 
different campus resources, pushes students into theEconTutor’s questionable courses. Because the 
department and its professors fail to encourage 
students to take advantage of the myriad resources already available to them, they give an appearance of legitimacy to theEconTutor’s enterprise. If the 
economics department wishes to guide students in 
the right direction, it should not only improve the instruction quality and accessibility of resources but also start proactively discouraging students from using theEconTutor services.
REVEKKA GERSHOVICH  RGERSHOV@ucsd.edu Jacob Sutherland  jsuther@ucsd.edu▶ RELIGION, from page 4
a divide created between students and 
the types of programs they may wish 
to partake in, but a Western norm 
is also affirmed. In doing so, the university furthers the otherization of Eastern and non-traditional faiths 
and cultures — a trend that is already 
prevalent in the United States.The university must begin to acknowledge the potential for 
on-campus religious diversity 
and provide services through the Center for Ethics and Spirituality 
for the currently forgotten students 
practicing religions outside of the Western Christian and Judaic norms.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
 SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
The Guardian 
interviews 
three students 
about the 
state of gun rights and gun 
violence in 
America. On  Guns  in 
America: 
Students  Speak
by Lara Sanli // Senior Sta ff Writer
Guardian:  Fir s t o ff , y o u h a v e a film f ocu sed o n tw o s u b jects: a y o un g bo y  
growing up and boxing. Why did you choose these subjects? Did one come 
before the other?
Nazareno:  Yes. Initially, I wanted a family story, and I always wanted to make 
a film about children and how helpless they are with the circumstances they’re in. The boxing came in while I was already developing the script. Boxing is a 
big part of the culture in the Philippines, because you know, Manny Pacquiao 
is now a big thing, and everyone looks up to him as a quote-unquote “national hero, ” an inspiration, and an aspirational icon.
G: Were there any real life people or relationships that inspired the characters 
of George and Diday, or that also inspired the particular kinds of relationships they had with Kiko?
N: Yes. The whole story was inspired by a real person. There was a real Kiko, a 
childhood friend, who was a few years younger than me and grew up without a mom. Although his dad was around physically, they didn’t have an emotional 
connection. His family was his nanny. We cheated Diday into the film, so yes, 
it’s based on a true story of Kiko, inspired by a real story.
G: And George, too? W as there a George, possibly?
N: Not exactly in terms of the real George, but, for example, I have friends who 
became early fathers who weren’t prepared for the responsibility, and I think 
that influenced me in developing the character of George.
G: And let’s talk about the look of the film. I’ve noticed that it has a very 
smooth, very earthy color palette. And even the set design is really clean 
and homey. And I also noticed that many of the shots were also static shots. 
Were these simply stylistic and aesthetic decisions, or did you want to convey 
something deeper through the film’s appearance?
N: I’m taking the point of view of Kiko in the film. I wanted the audience 
to feel how Kiko feels. So, I allowed this sense of camera movement and the design to talk about 
it. It evolves throughout the 
story depending on how Kiko feels. So, for example, I started with earthy colors and static 
shots, because that’s how Kiko 
feels. Everything is mundane. But then when his dad came, everything changed. Very masculine, and the shots were 
moving.
G: I’m curious about the score, 
too. It’s very lovely and quite fitting with the film. What was the process of 
developing the film’s music?
N: W e actually had very few days to work on the music; I think a weekend. 
So the first thing that came into mind about the score was that I wanted it to be a minimalist kind of music. I didn’t want too much instrument in it. And I also wanted to put an elemental voice of a woman, which kind of reflects the 
absence of Kiko’s mom. I wanted it to have an indie-alt feel, which matches the 
pine trees and the setting of the film.
G: One recurring plot point was Kiko and his dilemma with eating his 
vegetables. It’s something that seems very commonplace in many families, and yet you were able to bring a greater emotional depth to it. Could you expand 
on that?
N: Yeah, I think it makes Kiko relatable to everyone. We’ve all been there 
growing up, and as a kid, you don’t like vegetables. And it makes it relatable 
to the audience. I used it as a device too, to show Kiko’s evolution, maturity, 
because it is a coming of age story.
G: And speaking of Kiko, how was it like working with Noel? He’s a very young 
actor. And how different or similar was it working with such a young talent 
than from working with adult actors?
N: Working with Noel … He’s not really new in acting; he has a musical theater 
background. He’s been acting since he was six. When we shot this, he was 13. He looks younger, though. He actually had won acting awards. He’s had 
this musical theater background developed at eight. That’s when we actually discovered this one adaptation of “The Little Prince” where he played the role 
of the prince. That’s when I discovered him and decided I wanted this kid to play Kiko. And it was easy to work with him. He had experience, and he can 
easily pick up instructions. He’s a very cool kid; he doesn’t have tantrums and 
all that, which is the scariest part of casting a kid. And his parents are very supportive; they treat me as their other son. 
G: Did you encounter any setbacks, or were there any interesting experiences 
that you had while filming this movie?
N: The biggest problem wasn’t actually in the filming, but before the filming. 
Since it’s my first film, it was so hard to get funding and convince producers that I can pull off a full-length feature. So that’s been a big struggle. But for the 
filming part, I was surprised that we were able to pull it off. I think that the 
only problem we had during the shoot was … it rained. On one of our shooting days, it rained. We couldn’t afford to add an additional shooting day, but we were still able to pull it off. So, I think the main setback was before the filming, 
then we were in actual trouble.
G: Did you have a reason why you chose that particular location?
N: I treat the location as an additional character in the scene. This place is 
called Baguio City. They call it the City of Pines. It also has a boxing culture 
because of the high altitude. Boxers train there in the mountains, so that took 
to the story itself. But mainly because I treat it as an additional character, now 
it helps push the story and push Kiko’s emotional journey.
G: What do you think makes this particular story about Kiko relevant or 
relatable to both Filipino audiences as well as other foreign audiences like Americans?
N: I wanted to tell a very universal story. A story that can break cultural 
differences and focus on family — and everyone has family. And you see your mom, or if your dad leaves you, then it doesn’t matter what country you’re from, 
you’ll be able to relate to that. So, I think, that itself is a family story. I think that makes it relevant to 
everyone.
G: Kiko has to eventually 
move to America. 
However, you did not 
show that. Will you ever 
consider crossing over to America, or would you like to continue creating 
Filipino-based stories?
N: I  d o n ’ t  m i n d  c r e a t i n g  a n  A m e r i c a n - b a s e d  s t o r y .  S i n c e  I  f i n i s h e d  m y  
elementary here [in the U.S.], the U.S. has a special place in my heart. Actually, my next film, I want to take a project that I can shoot here, and maybe film it 
in the Philippines, like a co-production thing.
G: Is there any advice you would tell your younger self, or possibly an aspiring 
director?
N: I think, first thing, you have to really love what you’re doing. You have to 
make sure that you love something not because of money, not because of fame, but because you like telling stories, because you would die to tell a story. So, I 
think just keep the passion. And don’t give up, because it’s not easy. And you 
will run out of money, you will get your heart broken, but at the end of the day, it’s only you and yourself, and that’s the only thing that matters. 
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
—  Lara Sanli
Senior Staff Writer
“A thorough background check is needed for 
participation in our government, for the purchases of 
medicines for your mental history, etc. So why shouldn’t 
we hold the same standards for guns? Guns have the 
capability to end lives.” ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Students  SpeakThirty years ago, Dr. Tyagarajan Somasundaram had no plans to be a college 
professor. But today, he almost can’t see himself being anything else. “If I was not 
an academic as an occupation, I’ d probably be an architect … If I couldn’t be an 
architect, I might even be an interior decorator. But I’ d probably starve to death in 
the process because I’ d do it my way as opposed to the way the client typically wants 
it. ”
This frank, self-aware sense of humor is perhaps what makes Somasundaram, 
or Soma, as he calls himself, such an engaging and beloved professor. Using his vast arsenal of pop culture knowledge, Soma challenges his students to think critically 
about the variety and dynamism of the international market. Soma possesses the remarkable ability to fire back one-liners about Kim Kardashian while still making 
a point regarding the social functions of democracy. In these discussion-based lectures, students examine issues such as the representation of women in media in emerging non-Western markets or the degree of corporate responsibility for the 
steep prices of HIV/AIDS drugs in developing countries. These thought-provoking 
case studies can cover seemingly unsolvable topics at times. Soma lends a voice 
of hope to the debate, implicitly suggesting that anyone in the room could at any 
moment propose a solution to one of the many issues conferred. 
As a professor of a course about firms adapting to international di fferences, 
it is fitting that Soma himself has also learned to adapt to countless international 
differences in his life. Before his journey led him to San Diego, where he has now 
been comfortably settled for a few decades, Soma lived and worked across four 
continents. 
Born in India to a military family, Soma traveled o ften in his youth. He spent 
his teenage years in London, where his father was a diplomat. A fter high school, 
his family moved back to India where he completed his undergraduate degree in 
economics and mathematics at the University of Delhi and earned his MBA in 
marketing and finance from Panjab University. He worked for consumer goods 
company Unilever for about two years before deciding that he wanted to leave the 
country. So he le ft, and for another year he worked with one of Unilever’s partners 
based in Nigeria. When he realized he didn’t like the situation he was in, he le ft again 
on a student visa, for Saskatchewan, Canada this time. He completed his second MBA at the University of Saskatchewan before his colleagues persuaded him to 
pursue a doctorate degree, which finally brought him to University of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, where he received his PhD in marketing.  
For students fortunate enough to take his class, Soma has brought his years of 
global perspective to UC San Diego.
Soma moved to San Diego from Milwaukee in March of 1988, and never looked 
back. “It was snowing in Milwaukee the day I arrived, but it was something like 75 degrees here, ” he recalls, calling California a “pretty nice fit” for the PhD graduate 
and his fiance. He saw an opening at the University of San Diego and applied, and 
that “nice fit” turned into a tenured position at the University, where he has been ever 
since. When the fledgling Rady School of Management at UCSD was established 
in 2003, Soma was among those asked to teach its first MBA classes. “It was not 
called Rady School at the time. They just had o ffices above Pangea, ” he explains. 
As Rady expanded to o ffer a business minor to undergraduate UCSD students — a 
groundbreaking concept at the time that marked UCSD’s first foray into business 
class o fferings — Soma led the way in creating and designing one of its core classes, 
Management 112: Global Business Strategy. As it currently stands, Soma has taught global business strategy since its inception and had a large hand in opening up UCSD from being such a science, technology, engineering, and math-heavy school.
Perhaps it is evident from the multitude of degrees he possesses, but Soma is 
a man with a keen intellect who believes learning has no topical limits. Soma has many hobbies and is incredibly educated and passionate about each one. He loves to paint; he’s interested in design. He enjoys astronomy, photography, and 
of course, travel. “I’m not sure if I’ d say 
I’m a foodie, but who doesn’t like good 
food?” he remarks.
Soma’s humility speaks to an understated 
sophistication. Despite his frequent jokes about his wife having to select his entire wardrobe 
for him, Soma has never come to class in anything less 
than business professional, usually with a pop of color via a colored button down. It’s very apparent from speaking to him that Soma has a re fined taste that is re flected 
in his various hobbies. With regards to architecture, he especially takes pleasure in minimal designs that fit nicely into the structure’s surroundings. He is a big fan 
of fellow Wisconsinan Frank Lloyd Wright’s “prairie style” (one look at Wright’s 
“Fallingwater” and you’ll see why), and admires the elegant simplicity of traditional 
Japanese building design.  
“If you contrast a palace in Europe with the place the shogun might live in, what 
strikes you is how incredibly beautiful and how incredibly minimal the shogun’s residencies tend to be. They’re very particular about essentially blending into nature 
… it’s just extremely elegant. I think there’s something to be said for that, that 
purity of form and shape, and in some instances, even color. ” He expresses that the 
decadent, ornate styles embraced by European builders are not for him — “Oh, a gargoyle would kill me, ” he quipped.
Soma’s strong deference to nature also manifests when he speaks of his favorite 
past places to call home. “I liked Saskatchewan a lot … at that time it always struck me as an incredibly friendly place and a place that was actually very well set up 
for their environment. ” He also appreciates minimalism in location, too, preferring 
destinations that are sparsely populated and o ffer plenty of wide-open space.
All things aside, it is still very clear that in his heart, education is still a near 
and dear matter to Soma. Few people doubt that the key to a better world lies in education, yet we have struggled to make this a reality worldwide. 
“Many people possess knowledge. But how do we transfer that, and how do we do 
that efficiently, so that others can, in a sense, bene fit from our wisdom?”
He speaks of countries who have managed to close the educational gap between 
the elite and the middle and lower classes, and references various educational models 
in Korea, Singapore, and Finland. He suggests that it’s not as simple as allocating 
more funding to schools, a viewpoint that American students and elected o fficials 
are quick to adopt. Having attended boarding school in the U.K., Soma received 
a different brand of secondary education than what students from the States may 
be used to. He and his friends at the time all attended schools that deeply valued 
education and focused less on extracurriculars. Classes were rigorous, no frills, 
and at advanced levels. There were no elective subjects, but it was an extremely 
high quality education that placed firm emphasis on building fundamentals. Every 
country has di fferent ways of approaching education, he observed, but you certainly 
need good fundamentals.
So, what’s a man who’s spent half his life doing business around the globe, and 
the other half of his life teaching students about it have to say about it all? Soma 
maintains a strong optimism for human goodness. 
“ At the end of the day, merit actually does count ... if you do good work, it speaks 
for itself. While there’s [a short term impression] that people who play 
games or 
organizations that try to exploit people will take advantage of situations and so forth, 
I think in the long run, goodness and merit do win over. ” 
“People are fundamentally good — people are trying very hard to do the right 
thing. I think, like most of us, we fail. But our heart is fundamentally in a good place. ” BEHIND THE LECTERN
Professor Tyagarajan Somasundaram: Global 
Perspectives in BusinessBy Cailin Liu // Contributing Writer
 
Cailin Liu  cal112@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF TYAGARAJAN SOMASUNDARAM
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN8                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  8 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds  
in medicine, the smartest choice in health care is becoming the  
most convenient one. Look for our new Rancho Bernardo location,  
opening Fall 2018. For more details about the world-class care  
happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.comWhen I ponder the wonders of public 
transport, my experience is full of rather 
unfortunate stories which drastically overshine 
anything positive. Mainly, my dissatisfaction 
has to do with my own inadequacy: I’m a kid from the suburbs of Southern California, so sitting in a Prius on a highway full of traffic is 
much more my forte. Consequently, I’ve had 
my fair share of fumbles since I moved down to San Diego sans automobile. 
Almost every day this week, I’ve had to 
run to catch a bus to school. Sweat dripped 
down my brow as the thump of sneakers 
desperately slapping the pavement resounded throughout the block, but I was lucky enough to make it each time. While these events 
challenged the questionable machinery of 
my cardiovascular system, I was also inspired to call upon the other bus-related fails that occurred throughout my college life. 
As a method of comforting the public-
transport-phobes of this world, I’ve decided to share my most memorable bus anecdotes to date. Some of these happened as early as my first year, but I still anticipate many more 
incidents will occur in my future.
Without further ado, please enjoy my tales 
of woe and suffering. 
Taking the L ong Way to UTC
Most people have taken a wrong bus or two 
in their time, right? Please say yes, since my 
ego would love to believe I’m not the only fool in this world.
During my first year, I needed to buy a 
dress for my college’s semi-formal dance, so, naturally, I waited until the day of the event to do so. I was lucky enough to finish class in the morning on Fridays, leaving a perfect gap in the early afternoon to do a dash of shopping. 
Since nobody else could accompany me, I 
decided to venture to Westfield UTC on my own for the very first time.
As the naive freshman I was, I cluelessly 
checked my transit app for what bus to take, without knowing that most buses wound up at UTC anyway. Route 30 arrived first, so I hopped on with the greatest amount of fake confidence I could possibly muster.
Before long, I realized that this bus was 
going toward the beach, away from the mall. Not surprisingly, my unwillingness to read signs had gotten me in trouble.
It turns out that each bus route goes two 
opposite ways, in this case toward downtown and toward UTC, a fact which escaped the comprehension of my first-year-sized brain. With my phone on less than 10-percent 
battery, I scrambled to depart the vehicle 
before I somehow ended up on a deserted street corner in Old Town.
In an effort to lighten my mood, I thought 
I could briefly visit the ocean while I was in the area. Much to my chagrin, high tide had reduced the entire beach to a mushy sand pudding. Back to the bus stop I went, sighing the entire way.
Please, don’t forget to double check bus 
routes. Learn from my stupidity.
A Secretive Encounter
Based on my experience, bus culture 
depends very highly on not looking at or talking to the strangers who are forced into this confined space together. If someone breaks this taboo, I have no choice but to be a tad suspicious.
I decided on this rule after one bus ride to 
the beach with friends, during which the three of us stumbled into a random conversation with a man nearby. Granted, I couldn’t hear much of this exchange myself, but I was 
constantly in battle mode in case either of my 
friends thought he said something weird. After watching them nod and smile awkwardly for about 15 minutes, we finally reached our stop.
My friends informed me afterward that the 
man was adamant about us girls needing to see this secret spot by the beach, a name which now escapes my memory. For all I know, it could have been a legitimate place, but to 
my ears, his request sounded like, “Hey you three, come to this sketchy, made-up location 
where I may or may not kidnap you!” Yeah, no thank you.
Sometimes bus rides themselves don’t 
seem all that bad, but it only takes one weirdo 
to change that.
Teased, Taunted, and Trifled With
Picture this: It was Saturday morning, 
and I decided to get a nice brunch with my roommate down at Caroline’s Seaside Cafe. 
Suddenly, things took a turn for the worse, since the kitchen got my order wrong, and I didn’t have a receipt (wasting paper is bad!) 
to prove my purchase. After a grueling 30 
minutes of waiting for my food to be remade, I finally got to inhale that precious French toast down my esophagus.
Once that emotional rollercoaster had 
been crash-tested, we headed back to the bus stop to make the trip home. Alas, the bus was already preparing to drive away! My roommate and I made a break for it, speed 
walking as if our lives depended on making 
this specific bus. Which in a way, it kind of did; route 30 only comes every half hour on weekends.
Fortunately for us, the bus driver saw 
us. Unfortunately for us, he just honked at our pitiful struggle, only to leave us in his apathetic dust. In a sweaty fit of rage, we decided to walk all the way home.
Get to the stop on time, people. It’s too 
painful to endure this kind of torture.
Final Thoughts
For the people who dislike buses just as I 
do, look on the bright side! The more failures I 
brought upon myself, the more I learned from 
my mistakes. Therefore, nobody is hopeless. Plus, my own screw-ups brought this article 
into the world, so I’m glad I didn’t suffer for 
nothing.LIFESTYLE              T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  8 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The Directionally Challenged and 
Chronically Late P erson's Guide of 
How Not to Ride a Bus
Cook with a Commuter 
Volume 1: Veggie Egg Scramble 
Baguetteby Jade Hookham // Staff Writer
by Hakyung Yun // 
Contributing Writer
ILLUSTRATION BY ANTHONY TRAN
I have finally commenced my third year of 
university and, along with it, the commuter life. 
Moving off campus is often saluted as a rite of 
passage and another index of adulthood. Now 
I have to deal with bills (although I’m blessed to have parents who still pay for everything), busing everywhere, and … cooking. As 
someone who, for the past two years, sustained 
herself with microwaveable dinners and pre-made — albeit expensive and sometimes indigestible — dining hall food, I was initially a little unenthusiastic about now having to 
always prepare my own meals. However, I have 
since accepted the change and believe I am ultimately more satisfied with my new diet. 
Now, a disclaimer: I have never genuinely 
enjoyed cooking. This seems rather counterintuitive for a cooking column. I am lazy and can’t deviate from recipes.  Like most busy students, I also have little patience. Not to mention that the more elaborate a meal is, the more specific ingredients it requires. Some 
of these I would never use for anything else, 
thereby dooming said ingredients to rot away in the fridge. Still, cooking has now become an unavoidable necessity since I am unwilling to 
spend so much real money on takeout. I’m sure 
that there are many of you in the same boat as me and may be rather unhappy with your endless instant ramen dinners and slapdash peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. I don’t 
claim to make creative gourmet food in the 
slightest, but from one struggling commuter student to another, hopefully some of these ideas which, admittedly, are my twists on 
existing recipes, will make your belly happy 
while conserving as much of your energy, time, and budget as possible. Sometimes I will be replicating recipes to see for both myself and you if they produce yummy results. As the 
quarter progresses, I’m also hoping to discover 
grocery and cooking hacks which I will then happily share with you all. 
Veggie Egg Scramble Baguette  
This easy and savory dish is partially 
inspired by banh mi, although I wouldn’t really call it as such. This recipe (like all of my recipes) can be considered a template malleable to your palate. Feel free to tweak anything in 
any way. 
INGREDIENTS:
• 1 to 2 eggs (if you are vegan, you can 
substitute the eggs with scrambled tofu)
• 1 baguette or French bun
• vegetables of your choice (for the sandwich 
in the photo, I used white mushrooms, onions, and tomatoes)
• spinach or any leafy green of your choice• jalapenos 
• Sriracha sauce
• salt and pepper
INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Wash and dice any vegetables and proteins 
you are using. Tip: use very little – when 
scrambled in egg, the amount expands)
2. Crack and whisk your eggs in a bowl. Add salt and pepper to your liking.
3. Heat up a skillet or frying pan to medium 
heat, add a drizzle of oil or a pat of butter, and begin sauteing your vegetables and protein.
4. When the ingredients are partially cooked 
, add the egg mixture. Be careful not to wait too long or they will burn. If using onions, cook until they are beginning to brown at the edges.
5. With chopsticks or a fork, begin 
scrambling the eggs. Adding a little milk can enhance the fluffiness of your eggs. When on medium heat, scrambling  should only take 30 seconds to one 
minute. If you would like to slow-cook 
your scramble, use low heat and stir the mixture occasionally.
6. Optional: Toast the baguette or bun to 
your liking in another pan or toaster oven. 
7. While the eggs are cooking, line the inside 
of the baguette or bun with the vegetables. If you would like, you can scramble them into your eggs. I kept my greens raw as a 
personal preference. )
8. Transfer the scrambled eggs onto the 
baguette or bun.
9. Top with as many jalapenos and as much 
Sriracha as you’ d like.
This recipe is so simple and fast, it doesn’t 
even warrant these many steps. This sandwich 
is incredibly versatile and can be paired with many sides — fruit, salad, chips, fries, another sandwich (if you’re extra hungry), soup — 
the choices are endless. The sandwich can 
be prepared and ready to eat in less than 10 minutes. It is suitable for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Aside from the bread, most of the ingredients will likely be already stocked in 
your kitchen. 
I hope that you will give this sandwich a 
try and find it a tasty and painless addition to 
your daily routine. Until next time, good luck 
with the rest of Week 2, and happy sandwich 
chowing!10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  8 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
What Mr . Phil Taught Me
How to Survive Living Off Campus
Back to School: Tips for TransitionOne of the most rewarding aspects of 
living off campus is the freedom that it 
can provide, but with added freedom comes 
new responsibilities. When I first moved 
off campus during my sophomore year, I expected everything to stay exactly the same, but I learned that transitioning to off-campus 
living can be simple for some and daunting 
for others. Here are a few basic tips to remember when making the transition from on campus to off.
1.     Get involved on campus.
Moving off campus can be lonely due 
to the lack of suitemates and fun activities at your doorstep. Having that same level of an on-campus social life will be more 
difficult if you are not actively searching 
for it. Realize that getting involved with clubs and organizations will not only be something to add to your resume, but that this involvement will help maintain and 
create valuable friendships. It may not seem 
important at first, but getting involved can only make people happier, especially if they are enjoying their organizations and the causes they stand for.
2.     Learn to meal prep.
Unfortunately, living off campus does not 
automatically come with a set meal plan and a dining hall of prepared foods. While it is entirely possible to continue to visit college dining halls when living off campus, it can 
also be quite challenging. Some dining halls 
are in locations far away from your classes, and you may realize that the food was more appealing when it was just a few steps outside of your dorm. Meal prepping off-campus can 
be an easy way to get all the cooking out of 
the way and make it easier to have meals that are ready to eat. If you don’t or cannot cook all at once, make meals with two servings 
and cook only on the days you have a less 
hectic schedule. In addition to meal prep, it may also be beneficial to stalk up on some frozen food favorites. Some days are harder than others, and meal prepping or cooking a 
full meal may not be possible within an extra 
busy schedule. In those situations, try picking some healthier options such as rice, stir fry, and other nutrient-rich meals.3.     Bring a lunch box.
Similar to the idea of meal prep, bringing a 
lunch box to classes and filling it with snacks 
or meals can be helpful for both your wallet 
and your health. Depending on how far you live away from campus, you will quickly learn that you cannot always go back home in 
between the gaps in your schedule. Be sure to 
stock up on snacks, and pay special attention to those filling snacks that will keep you from splurging on on-campus foods every single day at school.
4.     Know your methods of transportation.
When living off campus, it is important 
to know your preferred method of 
transportation well. If you’ve never been on 
the bus before, try exploring different routes 
and familiarizing yourself with its stops. If you prefer walking, make sure to either leave earlier than normal on your first day or spend a day going over your walking route and 
making sure you have it down. If you have a 
car, make sure you’ve paid for your parking permit and develop a game plan for finding a parking spot. Finding a parking spot for undergraduates can be challenging, but a good rule of thumb is to try and get to your preferred campus parking lot before 7 a.m. 
(the earlier you arrive, the better).
5.     Have Emergency Money
Keep some money in your backpack or 
car in case of emergencies. Accidents happen, and sometimes when you’re in a rush it can be 
easy to forget things like your wallet. It’s good to know that you have that extra emergency money just in case you need something like food, water, or any other necessities that are 
easily forgotten.
The best bit of advice to living off campus 
is to realize that there will be a few bumps 
along the way. Moving into your own place 
or shared space with roommates for the very 
first time can sometimes be difficult to tackle, but realizing this milestone is not always easy for everyone is important. Take a few weeks to find your rhythm, make your own rules 
with your newfound freedom, and learn to 
enjoy that off-campus life!
Welcome back, fellow Tritons! We’ve spent 
the past month laughing at friends on the 
semester system, but alas, our time has now 
come. For those of us, second years and beyond, returning to La Jolla after being home for summer, even though it is not our first time doing this, can still be a time of 
transition, change, and anxiety around the 
start of a new year. Things may not be exactly as new as they were when you arrived for the first time, but you also may still feel that you 
haven’t found home in San Diego just yet. And 
that’s OK! As you take your time to move back in, on campus or off, here are some tips to settle in smoothly:
Decorate your new space, and make it 
your own. Hang pictures of friends and family from both here and home. Put extra effort into making sure your home base for the year truly feels like somewhere you want to be. String lights around the room. Cover the walls in posters. When you’re getting your 
bed together, make sure you’ve brought all of 
the pillows. All of them. Get your shoes lined up exactly how you like them. Turn this space into somewhere that makes you feel welcome when you walk in.
Seek out familiarity. Go to your favorite 
places here on campus or in San Diego. Find the coffee shop you love to study at, go back to Snooze an A.M. Eatery for breakfast, or hang 
out on the couches in The Hub. After leaving 
home, a place you most likely know like the back of your hand, and arriving in San Diego can feel overwhelming if you’re not familiar with it. Going back to the places you have 
gotten to know well will start to bring you 
back to your San Diego student state of mind. 
Call up friends. If you start to feel 
overwhelmed by the oncoming quarter, find the friends you’ve made right here in San Diego. If you feel comfortable, voice your 
worries or stresses out loud. Chances are, your 
friends are feeling the same way. Getting some time in with school pals can help you sink into your “normal” during the academic year. Go shop at Trader Joe’s or Ralphs, make a stop 
at Philz Coffee, and take a detour through 
Nordstrom Rack. Wherever it is that you an your squad like to go, get on the bus! There’s nothing that says “I feel like I never left” quite 
like hopping on a beloved local bus, scratchy 
seats and all. 
Take a beach day. San Diego can feel big 
and confusing, but UC San Diego will always be close to some of La Jolla’s best beaches. Go 
back to the you that told yourself you would 
go to the beach every day during college instead of the real you that dreams of warm sand while gazing out of a Geisel Library window. Lay out on your towel, take in the warm sun, and listen to the waves. Remember 
why you chose to move here. Once you realize 
how much more calm and comfortable you feel at the beach, promise yourself you’ll come back to the shores more often during the year.
Remember that this is all temporary. Take 
in the anxiety and all of the feelings that come with returning to La Jolla. Notice that things might not feel brand new, but they also just might feel different. Know that you’ve stuck 
through it before and that in a week or two, 
you’ll be right back on track. Transitions are weird and stressful, but the great thing about them is that they don’t last forever. Take a deep breath, string those lights around your 
room, and get ready to own this quarter.by Samirah Martinez // Staff Writer
by Samirah Martinez // Staff Writer
by Colleen Conradi // Staff Writer
My favorite memory of Mr. Phil happened 
at my elementary school in the third grade. 
My friend and I were on the playground, 
doing whatever third-graders do, when we 
approached a deep hole in the middle of the ground of sand. We both grabbed ahold of 
each other as we inched closer and looked 
inside to see two tiny red eyes that glowed just 
like the eyes of monsters in the movies always 
had. My friend and I screamed as we jumped up and down in both horror and excitement. What kind of animal was it? Was it poisonous? Would it charge at us now that we had made 
eye contact? We ran to the only person who 
would know what to do, and that person was Mr. Phil.
Mr. Phil, in true fashion, stared at the hole 
for about two seconds. He then covered the hole with sand. He patted the new hill with one foot and walked away.
To describe Mr. Phil accurately through 
writing would be a job too big for even 
Shakespeare. He was always grumpy in the 
happiest way possible, always swore, and always drove a big white Jeep. He loved pigs and taking pictures and blasting country music. He 
was so much more than another worker at my 
elementary school; he was a positive influence on our community. Not many people would consider working after retirement, but Mr. Phil was generous enough to give the rest of 
his life to my elementary school. While he 
wasn’t the youngest employee there, he did everything he could to be helpful. He helped 
teachers with technical issues, took pictures 
for the yearbook, and made lunchtime fun 
by dragging heavy speakers to the cafeteria 
and blasting music. Many people could have breezed through these tasks without a second thought, but the most important thing to know about Mr. Phil was that he was always a 
friend. It didn’t matter if you were a principal, 
custodian, teacher or even a child under the age of 10, you could always count on Mr. Phil to treat you with kindness. Even when he was 
in a wheelchair and could no longer work, Mr. 
Phil was always there, ready to help and ready to give you a smile and a hug. 
When I got the call only a few weeks ago 
that Mr. Phil was gone, I was at a strange and 
pivotal moment in my life. I had just turned 
21, was mentally preparing for my last year of college, and was in the middle of packing to live in La Jolla for the last time. A chapter 
of my life was closing, and I could feel it. 
That feeling was only amplified by the funeral services. Pictures at the front of the room showed a much younger Mr. Phil throughout many stages of his life, including ones I had 
never known before. The room, located right 
across the street from my elementary school, was overflowing.
Even more shocking was the people in 
attendance. One by one, employees from 
my elementary school trickled in. People I 
saw every day during my most memorable moments of childhood were standing right in front of me looking slightly older yet exactly the same. Mr. Phil’s granddaughter and I 
stared in shock as we tried to remember the 
names of all these familiar faces. After leaving the services, I realized I would probably never see those people again. As we drove past my 
elementary school, I knew there was no longer 
a reason to go back.
It is often said that we are “different 
people” at each stage of our lives. As someone who has struggled with college and moving 
away from friends and family, I have often 
failed to recognize the person I am now. I have constantly had to juggle my life in a city I do not enjoy. My first two years of college 
were spent wishing I was somewhere else. It 
wasn’t until my third year that I changed my major, got a job I enjoyed, and started writing for this newspaper. I started new friendships with honest and kind people, and I started to 
ignore my dislike of San Diego. Still, a part of 
me yearned for simpler days of football games, harvest festivals, and no student loan debt.
Mr. Phil’s journeys through life reminded 
me that just because the childhood chapter 
of my life is closed does not mean that my 
memories are any less beautiful or real. In college, it is often difficult to close those doors and move on, but Mr. Phil’s love of life has inspired me to officially close that door and 
make new memories I can look back on with 
pride. By doing so, I will be able to progress and grow as a person and (finally) become an adult.
I can only hope that the adult I am growing 
to be will be even a quarter as kind as Mr. Phil, and I am grateful to have learned so much from meeting him. We will all continue to face scary monsters with beady red eyes in 
college and beyond. I hope to stare right back 
at them and remember that they aren’t as big and scary as I make them out to be. I will close those chapters and have the courage to move 
forward, and I hope you will too.
A&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
“Crazy Rich Asians” stands out as a refreshing film, many leagues above traditionally stale and predictable rom-coms by possessing all of the genre’ s 
heart and charm but none of its eyeroll-inducing cliches.
Over the course of the last decade, 
box office earnings have continuously proven that American audiences are 
hungry for movies with unique stories and diverse casts. Recent films such as “Moonlight, ” “Moana, ” and “Black Panther, ” to name a few examples, were all highly successful films with 
casts composed of people of color. “Crazy Rich 
Asians” proved to be no exception to this rule and has quenched Asian American audiences’ thirst for representation and relatability.
“Crazy Rich Asians” is a romantic comedy 
film adaptation of the popular 2013 novel by Kevin Kwan. The movie features an all-Asian cast, making it the first American film to do so in 25 years (the last film being “The Joy Luck 
Club”). Its plot revolves around Rachel Chu 
(Constance Wu), an economics professor, who, upon traveling to Singapore with her boyfriend Nick Y oung (Henry Golding) in order to meet his mother, discovers that he belongs to an 
extremely wealthy family. Over the course of her 
time there, tensions mount as Rachel becomes increasingly disliked and ostracized by Nick’s mother, Eleanor Y oung (Michelle Y eoh), and his high-society peers due to her social class and American nationality. However, Rachel, 
aided by her hilarious and generous roommate 
from college, Peik Lin (Awkwafina), doesn’t give up without a fight and chooses to remain unaffected by the actions of others. However, 
Nick’s terrifyingly judgemental mother is not 
one to be outdone, and she decides to deliver a final, devastating blow to Rachel. Eventually, Nick is confronted with an impossible choice between the woman he loves and his family, 
riches and all.
“Crazy Rich Asians” possesses a rich setting 
of beautiful Malaysia (disguised as Singapore) 
and a vibrantly appealing color scheme that 
adds to the opulence of Nick’s home. The film 
is paced in a brisk and exciting manner that makes audiences feel they are on an exhilarating adventure, rather than a rushed walkthrough of a cheap romance. And although the Cinderella-
esque plot of “Crazy Rich Asians” is not entirely 
original, the story is handled in a way that makes the movie endearing and emotional rather than trite and cheesy. There are some moments that seem familiar, such as its makeover montage and the general plot progression toward the 
end of the film, but it never seems overdone 
or trite. Gone are the old-fashioned female characters who are portrayed as needing a romantic partner to survive. So too is the 
common rom-com trope of misunderstandings 
as the sole cause of the story’s conflict. Despite the unbelievably luxurious backdrop of the film, characters are strikingly realistic and deep. The result is a stylishly crafted narrative of a 
resilient Chinese American woman’s growth in 
a beautiful but divisive world.
Ultimately, it is the movie’s cultural and 
historical significance that makes it a triumph 
and joy to watch. Asian Americans and non-
Asians alike will enjoy this film for its beauty, messages of female empowerment, genuinely funny comedy, and emotional grace. However, this movie remains uniquely situated in the 
hearts of Asian American audiences, who will 
recognize many of the films specific cultural nods, such as the significance of Rachel making dumplings with Nick’s family and the perfectly-executed mahjong scene, from the landscapes of their own lives. Specifically, the film’s attention 
to each character’s emotional depth, featured 
in an industry that historically claims Asian actors as incapable of doing so, is incredibly meaningful and significant. Films such as 
“Crazy Rich Asians” provide audiences those 
who are never posed as main characters on the silver screen, a rare opportunity of comfort and relatability, and allows them to see themselves as the lead role in their own lives.
“Crazy Rich Asians” will impress all 
audiences, with its skillful portrayal of emotion, the holistic beauty of the films scenery, music, characters, and heartfelt messages. Despite its 
genre’s reputation for overplayed tropes and 
plotlines, “Crazy Rich Asians” takes what could have fallen prey to these pitfalls and results in an absolute triumph.
 
— Laura Hatanaka
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Crazy Rich Asians
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Jon M. Chu  
Starring  Constance Wu, Henry Golding, Gemma Chan, Awkwa fina, Nico Santos
Release Date  August 15, 2018
Rated  PG-13CA
Wafting the familiar smells of stadium 
hot dogs and nachos toward my nose, I descended the steps in San 
Diego State University’s Viejas Arena, knowing that winter is coming. Ramin Djawadi, composer for the hit television show “Game of Thrones, ” brought Westeros to San Diego on Sept. 11 for the world tour of the Game of Thrones 
Live Concert Experience. A flurry of special 
effects,  specially-designed stage mechanics, and beautifully performed orchestral pieces — each detail of the show sent my head spinning even 
more so than a certain beloved character. Djawadi 
made a modest promise — a concert to display his masterful creations. Instead, he took the audience on a nostalgic walk through the series, perfectly capturing the series’ balance of subtle 
sounds and aggressive imagery. 
 As soon as the stage came into view, 
it oozed potential. What looked to be a hooked 
catwalk extended from a central stage with a second platform at its end. Behind it, a massive 
LED screen projected the unnervingly blue 
eyes of the Night King —the most intimidating version of the painting whose eyes seem to follow as you walk. Stagehands dressed in maester robes 
tinkered with the stage lights and broke this 
unsettling eye contact with a laugh. It was difficult to not feel sorry for these audio engineers who had to test microphone connections in large, awkward woolen sleeves, but their dedication to 
the show was commendable. Anticipation, impatience, and wonder built 
when the orchestra shuffled onto the stage clothed 
in robes, leather armor, and flowy dresses. A dimming of the lights signalled that the musicians had finished tuning their instruments. Darkness 
sucked the air out of the room; everyone silenced 
themselves with a pause. All at once, the crowd erupted in applause as the familiar “Game of Thrones” theme song boomed from the stage 
and the iconic opening credits played on screen. 
Choir singers marched on stage to accompany the orchestra, an operatic leadsinger not far behind. 
After letting the applause die down a bit at 
the end of the score’s most recognizable song, 
Djawadi introduced himself, his musicians, and 
the local San Diego choir that joined them for this performance. The crowd replied with its own choir of cheering “I love you, Ramin!” Djawadi 
bowed and got right back to work with a smile. 
The orchestra played songs associated with each of the main families, as footage from the show followed  their respective timelines. The crowd relives the decapitation of a fan favorite as “Fire 
and Blood” plays and The Red Wedding as “The 
Rains of Castamere” plays. 
While the entire show kept the audience at 
the edge of their seats, there were some clear highlights. The unlikely star of the show was 
the brown-leather-clad wind instrumentalist. 
Not only was he adept at over a dozen wooden instruments, the sheer fervor with which he bellowed from a didgeridoo blew the crowd 
away. Not even Djawadi himself shredding an 
electric guitar matched this man’s show-stopping charisma. The opera singer made a claim to the throne, though. Though she usually backed up the orchestra with an ethereal undercurrent 
of harmony, the opera singer also commanded 
a lot of attention. In one of these moments, she maintained composure as she was hoisted upwards to the very height of the arena —her voice becoming stronger as she rose. 
Audience participation elevated the mood of 
the whole arena, even during the intermission. Children and adults alike flocked to the very 
dedicated cosplayers to bond over a shared love of 
the characters. A wheelchair-bound Lady Olenna maintained the character’s cutting wit. A fearsome Cersei Lannister impersonator embodied the 
entitled, yet supremely magnetic personality 
of her idol. It became readily apparent which characters the audience favored; they unleashed deafening cheers for Daenerys Targaryen and absolutely nothing for Joffrey Baratheon. 
It was so easy to get caught up in the thrill of 
the show that the few mistakes that happened were easily forgiven. Older members of the choir slowed down the rest as they marched along the 
catwalk. Stagehands had difficulty unhooking 
the opera singer from the pulley that lifted her to the top of the arena. Again these were all minor mistakes in the face of such an intricate show. The performance, in its laborious production, 
managed the very difficult task of maintaining 
the same balance of action and solemnity of the series. It was subtle and thoughtful in its reflective moments, but aweing and assertive in its lively moments. Ramin Djawadi reinforces just how 
perfect a pairing his score is with the series; the 
emotions elicited by the music echo and amplify those conjured by the footage from the show. By the end, this dressed-up orchestra show even 
mimicked the same longing for more that those 
woeful end credit elicit after the show. 
—  christopher  robertson
Editor In ChiefEpic stage mechanics accompanied composer Ramin Djawadi 
shredding the guitar in the perfect night for “Game of Thrones”  fans.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  San Diego State University Viejas Arena
Concert Date   September 11, 2018Game of thrones Live concertPHOTO COURTESY OF CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
CA12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  8 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
This September, I went to Toronto, and all 
I did was see some movies. That’s the truth, 
but it’s definitely an understatement when attending the annual Toronto International 
Film Festival, one of the world’s largest film 
festivals. From September 6-16, Toronto was home to red carpets, high-profile events, and ticket lines that stretch around city blocks. With celebrity sightings and first-looks at 
highly-anticipated films, it’s any movie-lover’s 
dream. 
Getting tickets to see a movie there in the 
first place, though, is the hardest part. The 
popular movies sell out seconds after tickets 
become available online on Ticketmaster. Only if you’re a part of the industry are you able to snag tickets afterward. Or, if you’re like many other people and willing to wake 
up extremely early the day of the actual 
showing, you can try to be one of the first people in the “rush line, ” facing long hours of standing in the rain. Tickets range from $10 to 
$100 CAD, depending on various factors, like 
seating, if it’s a premiere, or if any of the film’s talents will make an appearance. However, considering you get to be one of the first 
people seeing the movie and possibly even 
hear from the cast and crew in a Q&A, they’re generally quite affordable.
TIFF showcased a diverse array of films, 
which allowed me to see anything from 
blockbusters (“First Man”), to arthouse films 
(“High Life”), to foreign films (“Shadow”). Every screening started off with an introduction from a TIFF member — usually 
Artistic Director Cameron Bailey — who first 
acknowledged the indigenous groups that originally held the land they were on and then gave a preface for the film. Sometimes the film’s director, and even cast members, 
came on stage to say a few words. They 
shared the hopes for the film and hinted at messages touching on current issues such as gun violence, immigration, and toxic masculinity. Then the lights fell, and the same handful of ads played. At every showing, there 
was always a laugh at a Visa commercial, an 
applause at TIFF’s “Volunteers Rock!” video, and an “argh” at TIFF’s anti-piracy slide (a TIFF tradition).
Seeing a TIFF movie is more like a live 
show than your ordinary theater screening. People laugh, cry, and cheer a lot more. They would burst into applause and hoots when the bad guy lost, or flat-out sob when the 
good guy failed. Many people, even myself, 
would break out in laughter at the smallest things — such as a split-second sarcastic look — that you would otherwise barely register in any other viewing environment. For example, 
“Green Book,” a feel-good, buddy movie, 
had non-stop laughter that would rival a stand-up headlined by a top-tier comedian. Furthermore, the movie had two standing 
ovations that lasted for minutes on end, to 
the extent that one would think everyone saw “Citizen Kane” for the first time. For “ A Star is Born, ” everyone applauded after every song 
as if they were at an actual Bradley Cooper 
and Lady Gaga concert. People glared and groaned when a phone went off during the silent climax of “ A First Man. ” One of my favorite moments occured when an audience 
member yelled, “Hey, Ryan!” (in reference 
to the “Hey Girl” meme) at Ryan Gosling while he was onstage, garnering a laugh from everyone including Gosling himself. Another 
memorable moment was when Lady Gaga 
took the stage, and the entire house went nuts, screaming, “I love you!” and “Yaaas Gaga!” If I haven’t described it well enough already, let me be clear: A TIFF audience is much more 
passionate than your average one.
Whenever I arrived at any one of the several theaters hosting the festival, there were crowds 
that anticipated the arrival and departure of stars. Crowds consisted of autograph hounds, photographers, fans, and even just passersby 
who wanted to see what the commotion was 
about. There were even drivers who chased after celebrities’ cars when they left. For the premiere screenings of movies, it’s actually easy to spot some famous names. You don’t 
even have to see the movie to see its stars, 
and most people don’t. Many Lady Gaga fans, few of which actually attended a screening, flocked the site of the premiere of “ A Star is 
Born” in the early morning, hoping to catch 
a glimpse of her on the red carpet. In my experience, after watching a Q&A following a screening, it only took a quick exit to the back door of the theater to catch the people I 
had just seen onstage. Most stars immediately 
drove off, but some stopped to greet those waiting for them. That’s how I was personally able to snap some selfies with Bradley Cooper, 
Nicole Kidman, and Damien Chazelle. I still 
can’t believe it.
As for the movies themselves, I was 
pleasantly surprised by a half dozen of the ones 
I saw, and more-or-less disappointed with the 
rest. Due to the fanfare surrounding most of the movies, I walked into the screenings with high expectations. Movies that I especially looked forward to, like “Beautiful Boy, ” “The 
Sisters Brothers,” and “First Man,” were 
watchable for the star-power but ultimately failed to click with me. Meanwhile, it’s hard not to love instant crowd-pleasers such as “ A 
Star is Born, ” “Green Book, ” and “Widows” 
(everyone absolutely loved Viola Davis’ dog). A favorite of mine was “Vox Lux, ” starring Natalie Portman and Jude Law. It chronicles a pop star’s rise to fame amid tragedies 
and toxicity, and it features a captivating 
performance from Portman. Most TIFF movies have some degree of artistic quality to them, thanks to the selection process; whether they’re a hit or miss can largely depend on your own individual tastes.
Despite how you may react to the movie 
itself, watching one at TIFF, or at any film festival, is ultimately a great privilege and an unforgettable experience. When you normally watch a movie at your local theater or on 
Netflix, there’s a degree of separation between 
you and the filmmaker. A festival experience bridges that gap by bringing you up-close and personal with the true intentions of a movie. 
You’re surrounded by moviegoers who are just 
as excited and engaged in the movie as you are, and you may end up seeing the people behind the movie and hearing about their inspirations and visions. It gives you a chance 
to really see how much time, money, and 
tireless effort goes into making and debuting a film. Attending a film festival also helps support a film and its filmmakers, for the 
success of many movies depends on how 
festival audiences and critics receive them. The better a movie is received, the more buzz and release locations it may get; oftentimes, 
festivals bring recognition to movies and 
talents that would otherwise be unknown to the public. When you go to a film festival, you’re seeing more than a movie — you’re seeing its creators, its fans, and its critics. In 
short, regardless if the film is spectacular or 
overhyped, you are guaranteed to have an unforgettable experience — getting to watch good movies is just a perk of the festival.
— Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff WriterRed carpets, celebrity sightings, sold-out premieres —  the 2018 
Toronto International Film Festival showcases some of the year’s biggest and best movies.2018  Toronto 
Interna tional
 Film  Festival
PHOTO COURTESY OF NATALIE TRANPHOTO COURTESY OF NATALIE TRAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF NATALIE TRANCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
KEYON HARROLDTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 8 - OCT 14
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org2pm
ILEAD ORIENTATION - BEAR ROOM, 
SUN GOD LOUNGE, PRICE CENTER 
WEST
If you have ever wondered, how does iLead work? 
Or asked, what do you mean I need a stamp 
card? Or been confused about which model of 
leadership this program uses, then this session is for you! Attend the iLead orientation to gain an understanding of how the program works, meet other students, and learn the basics of the Social Change Model. You will receive your stamp card and collect your first stamp! Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
5pm
STUDY ABROAD FIRST STEPS INFO 
SESSIONS - STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Drop in to learn what your First Steps should be 
when planning to study abroad. We will be there 
to help you answer any questions you have about 
studying abroad at UC San Diego! Contact: abroad@ucsd.edu
5:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
PARKS AND REC DAY - THE LOFT
Enjoy hot dogs, corn on the cob, and more picnic 
special finger foods from Zanzibar with the 
company of classic Parks & Rec episodes. Stay or 
swing by at 6pm for the real party. Bring your TRIVIA CAPS, 'nuff said. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL INFORMATION 
SESSION - MUIR MARIPOSA ROOM
This year, Muir Musical Ensemble is excited to 
produce tick, tick BOOM! in Fall 2018 and Hairspray in Spring 2019. Whether you are eager to perform onstage, work behind the scenes, or play in the orchestra pit, we invite you to join us at an information session to learn more about how you can get involved and what the audition, rehearsal, and production processes are like. The material covered in each information sessions will be the same. However, because tick, tick BOOM! auditions occur at the end of Week 1 on Friday, October 5, our Week 2 information session will only cover the audition and rehearsal process for the spring musical, Hairspray. Contact: muir.musical@gmail.com
7:30pm
MARY LATTIMORE / PALL JENKINS 
/ AMY CIMINI - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Mary Lattimore is a Los Angeles-based harpist. 
She experiments with effects through her Lyon and Healy Concert Grand pedal harp, concocting half-structured improvisations which can include both ambient glitter and unsettling noise. Her first solo record, the Withdrawing Room, was released on Desire Path Recordings in 2014. The solo recordings that followed, At the Dam and Collected Pieces, were released by Ghostly International. She has contributed and written harp parts for such artists as Kurt Vile, Thurston Moore, Sharon Van Etten, Meg Baird, Steve Gunn, the Clientele, Hop Along, Jarvis Cocker, Karen Elson, Ed Askew and Quilt. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 8588220019TUE10.09
THU10.11MON10.08
12pm
STUDY ABROAD FIRST STEPS INFO 
SESSION - STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Drop in to learn what your First Steps should be 
when planning to study abroad. We will be there 
to help you answer any questions you have about 
studying abroad at UC San Diego! Contact: 
abroad@ucsd.edu 
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DIY BULLET JOURNALS - THE STAGE 
ROOM
Begin your school year by getting organized at 
DIY Bullet Journals! Come and set goals! Come 
and be creative! SUPPLIES ARE LIMITED AND IT IS 
A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
REIDEMIESTER MOVE - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Reidemeister Move is Christopher Williams, 
contrabass, and Robin Hayward, tuba, a duo 
dedicated to exploring and expanding the 
possibilities of sustained-tone music in just 
intonation for their instruments. Hayward's 
self-designed microtonal tuba developed 
together with the instrument manufacturers B & 
S, and Williams' previous work with Charles 
Curtis and LaMonte Young's legendary Theatre of 
Eternal Music, provide the backbone for a 
performance practice based on purely tuned 
intervals, noise, corporeal rhythms, and spatial 
resonance. Contact: boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
1pm
IMPACT OF TOOL USE AND 
TECHNOLOGY ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN MIND - CONRAD T. 
PREBYS AUDITORIUM, SALK 
INSTITUTE
CARTA's symposium, Impact of Tool Use and 
Technology on the Evolution of the Human Mind will address the gene-culture co-evolution of the human mind with tool use and technology. Gene-culture co-evolution was the likely key to how we behaviorally modern humans emerged in Africa about 100,000 years ago and then spread across that continent and eventually all over the planet, effectively replacing all closely related and potentially competitive species. 
7pm
MYSTIC NIGHT - A DARKSTAR 
FUNDRAISER - LIBRARY WALK
An evening of food, fun, and fortune telling! Fortune tellers will be looking into your futures through cards, runes, and the lines on palms as we celebrate the approaching All Hallow's Eve! And if peering into your future isn't your cup of tea, come to enjoy our free board game tables, the delectable alchemical feast crafted in our kitchens, or to try your luck at our many raffle prizes.
8pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: COMEDY 
NIGHT - PRICE CENTER BALLROOM 
WEST 
Get ready to laugh your class off at this years 
Comedy night. UCSDs very own Comedy on Campus student organization will be hosting a comedy pre-show in the PC Theater at 8pm with the main show in the ballroom opening at 9. Pre-show attendees will receive priority seating while space lasts! Contact: faantonio@AD.UCSD.EDUFRI10.12
11am
WELLFEST - MARSHALL FIELD
Enjoy a fun-filled day under the sun with all your friends at Wellness and Engagements largest event of the year! Experience a variety of music, dance, free food, wellness activities, and fitness classes at the FIRST ZERO WASTE event at UC San Diego! Meet with local companies and our campus partners at the forefront of the sustainability movement and receive various zero waste giveaways. Sign up today on our website! Contact: uhshah@ucsd.edu
7pm
DVC PRESENTS: SOMETHING 
NASTY - PRICE CENTER BALLROOM EAST
UCSDs on-campus DJ and event production 
club presents: Something NASTY! A Hip Hop and Trap concert free for UCSD students +1 guest! Featuring live DJs, merch giveaways, and pizza limited to early arrivals! Contact: Djclub.ucsd@gmail.com 858-999-7107
8pm
ASCE & TRITON FEST PRESENTS: 
POOLSIDE CINEMA - CANYONVIEW POOL
Dive into a unique cinematic experience at 
Poolside Cinema! Munch on classic, savory theater snacks while enjoying a double feature while chilling in a floatie or lounging poolside. Contact: faantonio@AD.UCSD.EDUSAT10.13WED10.10THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST LEVEL 2
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while 
attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, 
faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 TIGER TRIO - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Tiger Trio, the inspired union of pianist Myra 
Melford, bassist Jolle Landre and flutist Nicole Mitchell, brings an uncommon lucidity to the art 
of spontaneous composition. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS GABRIEL 
KAHANE - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER 
EAST
The morning after the 2016 presidential election, 
singer-songwriter Gabriel Kahane took a two-week train trip across the United States with no phone or internet, embracing 8,980 miles of monkish Amtrak existence. The result is this hymn to the analog intimacy of American rail culture as antidote to the fragmentation and efficiency of modern life. Alone at the piano, Kahane draws from dining-car conversations he had with dozens of strangerscowboys, postmasters, religious luddites, software engineersto sing of his own upended assumptions about the body politic as revealed through his unplugged railroad exile. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
FUN THINGS TO DO
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Voice range
5. Serving perfectly10. Rant
14. Bath bar
15. Subsequently
16. Malevolent17. Speed up19. Flour factory
20. Call up
21. Additional
22. Lyric poems23. All25. Rascal
27. Bookworm
30. Removed
34. Do the wrong thing35. Hoarse38. Work hard
39. Plant anchor
41. Ice pellets
43. Blot44. Confess46. TV’s ____ Winfrey48. Supplement49. Closest51. Inferior53. Chow down54. Spring flower56. Amtrak stops (abbr.)59. Related61. Window blind65. Tramp66. Enrolled68. List entry69. Molars70. Melon peel71. Baseball’s ____ Rose72. Shopping frenzy73. UncomplicatedDOWN
 1. Urgent abbr.2. ____ Ness monster3. Mexican dish
4. Uncorked
5. Tavern order
6. Concerned one7. Rome’s country8. Seines
9. Athens’ country
10. Redoes the kitchen
11. Eager12. Nasty13. House additions
18. Crowbar, for one
24. Distinct times
26. Pacino and Gore27. Showed again28. Wash away
29. Perfume
30. Color changer
31. Cassettes32. Bring to mind33. Discourage36. Vegas machine37. Zest40. Tedious42. High45. Brewed drink47. Robbery50. Begins52. Globe54. Golfer ____ Woods55. Come together56. Ocean liner57. Handbag58. Assist a crook60. Hold on to62. Met solo63. Lions’ lairs64. Whirlpool67. That girlHOUSING
Del Rio Complex - $805 per month. Looking 
for a female student to sublet my room. It is a shared room with three other female roommates. Will accept students, interns, and young professionals. This apartment is in a beautiful area with a market right across the street. Wifi and utilities included in rent. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
4477 Mentone St Unit 206 - $2900. 
Beautifully remodeled 2 story condo in Ocean beach. Amazing views from all balconies in this 2 bed, 1.5 bath. Gated access to building with 2 dedicated parking spots directly below unit. Walking distance to ocean beach, shopping and parks! ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
10840-208 Scripps Ranch Blvd - $2195. 
Welcome home to this gorgeous second story unit located in the gated Allure at Scripps Ranch complex. Enjoy resort style living with the community pool and spa, clubhouse, movie theatre, fitness center and more. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS
New 2018 Honda Clarity Plug-In Hybrid Touring - $37,495. Features: 1.5 liter inline 4 cyl DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT engine, 103 horsepower horsepower, 4 Door, 4-wheel ANTI LOCKING BRAKES brakes, 8-way power adjustable drivers seat, Adaptive cruise control, Air conditioner with dual zone climate control, Audio controls on steering wheel, Bluetooth … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2016 Mazda Mazda6 ISPORT - $15,990. 
Used 2016 Mazda MAZDA 6 I Sport, 36,443 miles, Blue. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2006 Ford Super Duty F-250 XL, 67,683 
miles - $18,999. Used 2006 Ford 67,683 miles; San Diego, CA ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
26” Women’s Schwinn Ranger mountain bikes (Carmel Mountain Ranch)- $100. Steel front suspension frame 21 speed with grip shifters Front and rear linear pull brakes Alloy wheels Superb condition, only used a few times $100 each Troxel Helmets (Large) - $10 each Bell Memory Foam Bike Seat Cover. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
4 Wheels bike Italian red. (Lemon Grove 
CA.)- $2,600. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Diamond Back BMX Frame (San Diego).For 
Sale: $100.00 Diamond Back BMX Frame Thanks for looking. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
to the line of scrimmage, covering 
tight-ends and running backs in coverage, and opposing the run. 
This is in sharp contrast to Reid’s old 
position of FS, where he was o ften 
deep in the secondary and focused on defending the pass. A fter starting at 
SS for the first two weeks of the 2017 
season, Reid was sidelined for three weeks with a knee injury. During his absence, Reid lost his starting job to backup SS Jaquiski Tartt. To keep 
Reid on the field, the coaching sta ff 
changed his position again, this time 
to linebacker —a position similar to SS, but one that Reid had never 
played. Reid had growing pains a fter 
his shift to linebacker. In his first game 
starting at linebacker (Week 7 against 
the Dallas Cowboys), the 49ers were blown out by the Cowboy’s potent 
rushing attack. Reid and the 49ers 
defense gave up 40 points and 501 yards. Over time, however, Reid grew into his new position. He had a solid 
game against the New Y ork Giants, 
helping the 49ers win their first 
victory of the season. Just three weeks after his subpar debut at linebacker 
against Dallas, Reid earned a 81.6 rating out of 100 on Pro Football 
Focus, not allowing a pass longer than 
10 yards. Eventually, injuries forced Reid back into his original position as the secondary for the remainder 
of the season. Reid excelled, showing 
off his skill of attacking the ball and 
his ability as the last line of defense. At the end of the 2017 season, the 49ers decided not to extend Reid, 
allowing him to test the waters in 
free agency. Ranked as the 10th best SS by Bleacher Report and the eighth best defensive free agent by Shutdown 
Corner, Reid showed himself to be a 
capable and versatile starting safety. Additionally, he was only 26 years old, a young player with plenty of 
time to learn and grow. Reid seemed to have set himself up for free agency 
well. However,  no call came until the end of September — five weeks into 
the regular season.
Reid was the first NFL player to 
kneel with his former teammate Colin Kaepernick. Throughout the 2016 
and 2017 seasons,a fter Kaepernick 
was no longer with the 49ers, Reid protested by kneeling on the sideline during the national anthem. In an op-ed penned in The New Y ork Times, 
Reid explains how the killing of Alton Sterling,an unarmed black man shot by police in Reid’s hometown, Baton Rouge, LA, drove him to act. Reid 
stated, “ This could have happened to 
any of my family members who still 
live in the area. I felt furious, hurt and hopeless. I wanted to do something. ” Reid’s outspokenness and support of 
Kaepernick has made teams shy about 
seriously investing in him. Teams are unwilling to take on the controversy and face the ire of ownership and 
fans.
Reid signing with the Panthers is 
a step in the right direction for the 
NFL. In the old Panthers regime, Reid would not have been signed. Jerry Richardson, the founder and former 
owner of the Carolina Panthers, 
was forced to sell the team a fter an 
NFL investigation revealed serious workplace misconduct, including 
the use of racial slurs and multiple 
instances of sexual harassment. Richardson is not a fan of player protests; in a press release he stated, “Politicizing the game is damaging 
and takes the focus o ff the greatness of 
the game itself and those who play it. ” 
David Tepper, the new owner of the Carolina Panthers, supports player 
protests, calling them “patriotic. ” 
Tepper cleared the ownership impediment,which existed with the previous owner, clearing the way for 
Reid to be signed. Former Panther and franchise all-time leading rusher 
DeAngelo Williams explains the contrast between owners plainly in a 
conversation with ESPN: “ They just 
signed Eric Reid. There is no way in 
hell the owner [Jerry Richardson] 
would have touched Eric Reid. ”
However, Reid’s signing is not a 
wholesale victory for player protests. Though the Panthers do deserve some 
applause for signing Reid, they should also to be criticized for not doing 
so earlier. Based on his on-the-field 
performance, Reid is a starter in the NFL. Frankly, he’s a better player than some of the starters on other teams. 
However, it took a team in serious 
desperation for Reid to be o ffered a 
realistic contract that reflected his ability. The safety position has been a 
severe issue for the Panthers since last 
season. In 2017, the Panthers ranked 
28th out of 32 teams in pass defense. They signed Da’Norris Searcy in 
the offseason to help bolster their 
floundering secondary. Even if Searcy were healthy, Reid is clearly the better player. Although Searcy has been in the league for two more seasons than Reid, Reid has more career game starts, career interceptions, and 
career solo tackles. Reid is a younger 
and more versatile player with a much higher ceiling. Nonetheless, the Panthers were unwilling to go to Reid 
until they had no other options.
Reid has made no statement on 
whether he will protest this season 
with the Panthers. His collusion case against the NFL is still ongoing. 
Nevertheless, Reid getting a job is 
reason for optimism. Despite its frustrating low pace, the NFL may be moving in the right direction.game 1, the Astros homered an 
astounding four times, with three of them coming off  the Indians Ace 
and 2-time Cy Y oung Award winner Corey Kluber for the 7–2 win. Last year, the Astros homered their way to a world championship as they set a World Series record for most home 
runs in World Series history, and 
this year looks no di fferent. In game 
2, the Astros were helped out by a dominating pitching performance by 
Gerrit Cole who whi ffed 12 batters in 
7 innings and allowed only 1 run. The 
same cast of characters of Jose Altuve, 
George Springer, and Alex Bregman all got hits as the Astros won game 2 
3–1. The Astros will go for the series 
sweep in Cleveland on Monday.
This week’s last series is the series 
baseball fans have been waiting for all year. The greatest rivalry in baseball 
takes center stage as the MLB’s 
leading Boston Red Sox (108–54) host the New Y ork Y ankees (100–62). Just as expected, these two teams 
have put on a show in each game. On Friday’s game 1, the Red Sox took 
an early 3–0 lead o ff of first inning 
J.D. Martinez’s 3-run home run over 
the Green Monster. However, the 
Y ankees chipped away at the ever-shaky Red Sox bullpen but never could surmount the de ficit as the Red 
Sox won game 1 5–4. Saturday’s game 
2 yielded no such luck for Boston as 
this time it was the Y ankees who had a first-inning home run by their usual 
suspect, Aaron Judge. Y ankees catcher 
Gary Sanchez helped out Judge with 
a home run of his own in the second inning. Sanchez clobbered Boston on Saturday with 2 hits, 2 runs, and 4 RBIs. On the way, the Y ankees 
picking up a 6–2 win. This has been 
the most anticipated series of the year, 
and these two historic franchises are delivering in every way possible. With 
the series split 1–1 there will be a 
decisive game 3 played on Monday in front of a rowdy New Y ork crowd. 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at San Bernardino
at Stanfordat San Bernardinoat Turlockat ChicoUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Soccer
M Water Polo
W Soccer
W VolleyballW Volleyball12:30PM
3PM3PM7PM7PM10/1210/1210/1210/1210/13
After spending all of the 2018 
offseason in free agency, safety Eric 
Reid was signed by the Carolina 
Panthers. The Panthers’ starting safety 
Da’Norris Searcy is out for the rest 
of the season a fter being diagnosed 
with his second concussion in a 30-
day span. With a glaring hole in 
their defense, the Panthers called the former San Francisco 49er. This 
weekend, Panthers head coach Ron Rivera announced that Reid would 
be starting at safety in their game 
against the New Y ork Giants this Sunday. A fter just two weeks with the 
Panthers , Reid seems poised to make 
an immediate impact.
Given Reid’s history, especially 
his 2017 season, it’s not surprising 
he secured the starting job. Reid was dra fted in the first round of the 
2013 NFL Dra ft by the San Francisco 49ers; in the preseason of that year, the former Louisiana State University  Tiger beat out veterans Craig Dahl 
and C.J. Spillman for the starting free 
safety position. Reid had an electric rookie season — 4 interceptions, 11 passes defended, and 77 combined tackles — that was capped o ff by a Pro 
Bowl appearance. For the next three 
years, Reid held onto the starting 
role and remained a stalwart on the back end of the 49ers’ defense. Over his first four seasons, Pro-Football-
Reference ranked Reid the 19th best safety in the league. In 2017, the final 
year of Reid’s rookie contract with San Francisco, the 49ers cleaned 
house by hiring a new coaching 
staff and general manager. With the 
regime change, the 49ers shift ed from 
a 3-4 defense to a 4-3 defense. Given Reid’s build (6 feet 1 inch and 213 
pounds), he was asked to play a new 
role: strong safety. A position unique to a 4-3 defense, an SS plays close NFL Breakdown: 
Eric ReidMLB Playoffs Off to A Hot Start
The Carolina Panthers start safety Eric Reid who is 
looking to make an immediate impact on the field. A recap of the exciting conclusion of the first week of the Major League Baseball Playoffs.
We are through the first week of 
the MLB Playo ffs, and this is already 
a postseason to remember.
Starting last Tuesday at Wrigley 
Field, the Chicago Cubs (95–68) 
hosted the Colorado Rockies (91–72) in the National League Wild Card 
game. This being a one-game playo ff 
series, one team had to be eliminated 
Tuesday and sadly for Chicago fans, it was them. The Rockies jumped out to 
an early lead on Tuesday, as they led 
1–0 after the first inning. However, 
soon a fter the first, Chicago Cubs 
starting pitcher Jon Lester got back 
into form and shutdown the Rockies 
offense. The Cubs remained down 
a run until the bottom of the eighth 
inning when All-Star shortstop Javier Baez delivered a clutch 2-out RBI to tie the game. The game went into 
extra innings and into the thirteenth inning when the Rockies backup catcher Tony Wolters gave the Rockies the lead. They would add just 1 run 
on the 2-out single by Wolters, but it was enough for the 2–1 victory. The 
Rockies moved on in the playo ffs 
with the Cubs stunned and sent home despite having the second best record 
in the National League during the 
regular season.
In the American League the New Y ork Y ankees (100–62) hosted the Oakland Athletics (97–65) in the 
American League Wild Card game. 
The Athletics were without a doubt the 
surprise of the baseball world during the season as they were projected 
by many experts to finish near the 
bottom of the standings, but instead 
they churned out a 97-win season and had the fourth-best record in all 
of baseball. However, none of that 
mattered in this game as they looked doomed from the start. The Y ankees, 
otherwise known as the “Baby Bombers” were in charge of this one 
from beginning to end. In the bottom 
of the first inning Y ankees right fielder 
Aaron Judge appeased the roaring crowd and sent a ball deep into the 
New Y ork night sky for a 2-run home 
run. This gave the Y ankees a 2-run 
lead before everyone had even found their seats. More of the same in this game as in the next 8 innings the 
Y ankees tacked on 5 more for the 7–2 
win and sent Oakland home packing. Just like in many years past, Oakland’s Cinderella story ends before the ball.
After the wildcard games were 
finished, Thursday began the Division 
Series, the true start to the postseason. After beating Chicago, the Rockies 
moved on to face the first-seeded 
Milwaukee Brewers (96–67). Nine innings are simply never enough for the Rockies as their first game versus Milwaukee went extra innings. Colorado was unable to pull this 
one out as they Brewers won the 
game in 10 innings thanks to a Mike Moustakas walk-o ff single in the 
bottom of the 10th. Game 2 of this 
series took place on Friday and the 
Brewers were less kind in this one. Brewers starter Jhoulys Chacin and the stout Milwaukee bullpen blanked 
Colorado for the easy 4–0 win. With 
the Rockies only one game away from elimination, another bad performance on Sunday could end their season.
The NL West Champion Los 
Angeles Dodgers (92–71) hosted the NL East Champion Atlanta Braves (90–72) on Thursday and Friday and 
made quick work with them on both 
days. As per usual, dominant starting 
pitching has fueled the Dodgers in this playoff series. Thursday and Friday’s 
starters Hyun Jin Ryu and Clayton Kershaw combined for 15 scoreless 
innings against Atlanta which let the 
Dodgers pick up two easy 6–0 and 3–0 wins. The Dodgers did their job at 
home and now only have to win one of 
the next three games to move on the 
the National League Championship Series for the third straight season.
In the American League, the 
defending World Champion Houston 
Astros (103–59) beat up the 91 win 
Cleveland Indians (91–71) with a flurry of home runs. In Friday’s Men's BASEBALL
PHOTO COURTESY OF ARTURO PADAVILA III
LUCAS ARMSTRONG  LQARMSTR@ucsd.eduBY lucas armstrong
Contributing Writer
wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduBY wesley xiao
Contributing Writer16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
U-Pass is valid through 
June 30, 2019.  Use your iPhone or Android as your mobile ticket to ride. Sign up for U-Pass Cloud today!
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Student fees provide unlimited rides 
for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded. 
Current registration/enrollment and valid 
@ucsd.edu email address required.Get your new school year 
U-Pass today!
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRITON    _
OUTFITTERS
SHOP TO.UCSD.EDU
