     Over one hundred students at -
tended a candlelight vigil on April 2 at 
Warren Mall honoring the memories of UC San Diego seniors Anna Wil-son and Amanda Korbas, who passed away in a fatal car accident over spring break. Family and friends told stories of the two girls, and concluded the vigil with a moment of silence.
On Wednesday, March 28, Wilson 
and Korbas were travelling with their friends in Rocky Point, Mexico at night on a dimly-lit road. The driver 
of the vehicle couldn’t see well and hit a palm tree. Wilson died in the accident while Korbas died en route to the hospital according to a report made by a local Mexican newspaper. The other two passengers, brothers 
Denisse Alexander and Carlos, were injured but reported stable. Carlos, the driver, was taken into custody at the time of the accident by the pros-ecutor’s o ffice, who will be involved in 
the investigation of the incident.
After the incident, family and 
friends of the girls planned a candle-light vigil in their memory.
“We invite you to a candlelight 
vigil on Monday to celebrate the lives and light of two beautiful, kind, spectacular women who bettered the lives of all those lucky enough to know them, ” the Facebook event page read. “ Those who wish to speak 
are welcomed, and encouraged, to do so. Join us while we share memories of two lives that were tragically taken much too soon and support one an-other through this difficult time. ”
Margo Nicole, a close friend of 
Wilson and Korbas, described the candlelight vigil as a wonderful expe-rience. 
“It was so lovely to hear what 
memories and experiences people had with Anna and Amanda, and to see how many lives they touched, ” Ni-cole told the UCSD Guardian. “ The 
event made me feel close to both of VOLUME 51, ISSUE 22  MONDA Y , APRIL 9, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Library Officials 
Against Plan B in Vending Machines  
A.S. senators did not initially inform 
Geisel administrators of their idea. 
In January, UC San Diego’s 
Associated Student Council 
submitted a proposal to stock the 
A.S. Essentials machine in Geisel 
Library with Plan B. The aim was to make the emergency contraceptive more easily accessible to students. 
A.S. Senator Caroline Siegel-
Singh, A.S. Associate Vice President of Services and Enterprises Ryan Moosighi and Assistant Vice Chancellor of Student Wellness 
Karen Calfas led the initiative. 
The library ultimately denied 
the proposal. Instead, it suggested 
installing a new vending machine in 
Price Center East.
In its official denial, the library 
cited the MOU, or Memorandum 
of Understanding, that was first drafted when the Essentials 
machine was installed. It states that 
A.S. Council is in charge of stocking and maintaining the machine, and establishes a process of proposing 
and approving new items. 
Currently, the machine dispenses 
what are considered “standard 
supplies of interest to UCSD students.” Mostly, the Essentials 
machine sells items that promote 
library study. The MOU allows for limited health supplies like Tylenol or DayQuil. Any new health-related 
products must be approved before 
they are added.
Emails obtained by the UCSD 
Guardian show that A.S. Council did not seek approval before 
announcing the proposal, and that 
the library may have been planning to reject the idea before it was formally submitted. 
Exchanges within library 
administration indicate that it first heard about the senators’ plan to stock the vending machine with Plan B when it was reported by the 
Guardian and other sources, and 
had not been previously informed of the idea by A.S. Council. When Siegel-Singh spoke to the Guardian 
for the initial article on her plan, she 
did not indicate that she still needed approval from the library before taking action even though protocol 
requires that A.S. Council consult 
Geisel administration before adding items to the Essentials machine.
In an email from Jan. 8, Director 
of Learning Spaces Kymberly Goodson wrote to Associate University Librarian Catherine Friedman, “I have mixed feelings, though not strong ones in either 
direction (other than the frustration 
over them not following the MOU and consulting us in advance). ”
Friedman responded, “it does 
sound like you do need to get back 
CAMPUS
BY  Tyler Faurot
 STAFF Writer
Two UCSD Seniors Killed in Car Accident, Driver Since Detained
Members of the Black Student Union demonstrate on Library W alk. Photo by David Juarez // UCSD Guardian  
See PLAN B,  page 3Members of the Black Student Union 
staged a protest on Library Walk on 
April 4, the anniversary of Martin 
Luther King Jr. ’s assassination, criticizing anti-
blackness on UCSD’s campus, demanding justice 
for police brutality victim Stephon Clark, and 
calling attention to other issues. The demonstrators stood in two lines with their backs against each 
other across the pathway near the Bookstore and 
the Student Health Services building to block foot 
traffic and then ultimately marched toward Geisel 
Library.   
Clad in black tee-shirts, many of the participants 
held signs with phrases such as “SPACES IS ANTI-BLACK” and “OASIS IS ANTI-BLACK, ” which refer to two student resource centers, as well as 
“Black Lives Matter” and “Love Us Like You Love 
Our Culture. ” 
Many of the slogans were also directed at police 
brutality such as “Being Black Is Not a Crime, ” “Police the Police, ” and particularly “Justice for Stephon Clark. ” Clark, an unarmed black man, was 
shot at 20 times by two Sacramento police officers 
while standing in his grandmother’s backyard. The officers have claimed that they perceived his cell phone to be a weapon, but the incident has sparked protests nationwide. 
The protesters also called out the absence of 
black students at UCSD, specifically that African American students, according to Institutional 
Research’s enrollment statistics, consistently make 
up only two percent of the undergraduate student body and are therefore the smallest ethnic group 
on campus behind Native Americans.   
Although the demonstration was mostly silent, 
chants of “black lives matter” and “fuck your 
inconvenience” broke out. Observers were also able to speak with those involved, which led to 
several tense moments when some questioned the 
participants’ causes. 
Other protests were held by American 
Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees Local 3299, the union for UC employees, at other campuses such as Berkeley and UCLA that 
same day, but this demonstration, led by the Black 
Student Union, did not appear to be related.
 The event organizers declined to comment. By  Lauren  Holt   news editorCAMPUS
Black Student Union Stages Protest Across Library Walk  
A candlelight vigil was held for Anna Wilson and Amanda Korbas on the first day of the quarter. PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
TRUSTING
HDH
HDH’s mission statement is 
one that promises quality and 
professional services, all the 
while boasting of affordability. 
But does it really follow up on 
that, or is it all just an empty 
promise?
DIVESTMENT
SUMMER  SCHOOL  TALESPalestinian  OCcupation
INTERACTING  WITH  THE  YOUTHOPINION,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,  PAGE  8 
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Drag your sorry self 
over to Roger’s Market 
and liberate every 
Hydro Flask, toaster, 
woman, and child.  Your 
purchases here will serve 
as the products of your 
new resale business. 
And, this is where the 
magic happens.”Features,   PAGE  6 
MONDAY
H 74 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 57
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
TUESDAY
H 73 L 59
THURSDAY
H 64 L 55
CITIZENSHIP .................2
BEAUTY BIAS...............4
UCSD INTROVERTS.....8
CODING MUSIC..........11
W. TENNIS...................16A.S. COUNCIL
BY Helen Nguyen
contributing Writer 
See CAR ACCIDENT,  page 3LAUREN  HOLT   LCHOLT@ucsd.edu
JASON NIDEFFER
BREAKING THINGS BETTER
 PAGE 42 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
@ucsdguardian
Explore, Learn, and Intern   
in Washington, DC  for a 
quarter! Earn academic 
credit and gain valuable 
on-the-job experience.  
 
 
    Opportunities available 
  for all majors! 
UCDC@UCSD.EDU 
AIP.UCSD.EDU/UCDC UCDC
UCSD Professor Sits Alongside Deported Veteran as He Learns He Has Received American Citizenship
Nathan Fletcher from the political science department is also a veterans advocate and candidate for county supervisor.UCSD
BY Kevin Pichinte
STAFF WRITER
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Girlfriends are not a diet.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarA LEAK By Michi Sora
UC San Diego professor Nathan 
Fletcher, a candidate for county 
supervisor and an advocate for 
deported veterans, sat beside deported veteran Hector Barajas who, 
after 14 years, received the news that 
he will be able to come back to the U.S. and officially be sworn in as a 
citizen. Barajas was born in Mexico 
but raised in Los Angeles. He had a green card and served in the army 
from 1995 to 2001, but when Barajas 
came back from military service, adjusting to civilian life was a difficult 
transition which led to the loss of his 
green card.
Barajas was dishonorably 
discharged from the army and plead guilty to shooting an occupied vehicle. The government revoked his green card and deported him in 2004 to finish the remainder of his prison 
sentence. Barajas recognized his 
mistakes, and founded the Deported Veterans Support House, “The 
Bunker, ” which supports soldiers 
deported in Tijuana. The ACLU reported 239 instances of deported 
veteran from 34 different countries.
Thurgood Marshall College junior 
Jared Nathanael told the UCSD Guardian he believes it was wrong 
to deport Barajas after serving in the military.
“The scenario where a veteran 
being deported should have not occurred. [Barajas] should have been 
offered citizenship, ” Nathanael said. 
“Even though [he was] not a citizen, he should still be eligible for mental health help that veterans receive despite not being a citizen. ”
Advocates have strongly argued 
that service members who have post-traumatic stress disorder and other 
difficulties raise the likelihood of 
committing a crime such as Barajas did and say deportation is a little 
too far but veterans should still 
be sentenced for the crimes they committed.
“I think the government is 
responsible because it puts men and women in these traumatic positions, ” 
a student said. “They need to have 
post therapy to help veterans suffering from PTSD because of all the horrible 
things they see during combat. ”
However, opponents say that 
a green card is an agreement and violations should result in 
deportation, although Gov. Jerry 
Brown exonerated Barajas and two 
other veterans in April 2017. Brown said that Barajas was living an honest 
life, was a law-abiding citizen, and 
showed good moral character.
Marco Chavez Medina, a deported 
marine pardoned by Brown, had his green card reinstated and came back to the U.S. He was accompanied to the 
San Ysidro port of entry by Barajas 
and others. Barajas will finally be able to reunite with his middle-school-age 
daughter Liliana, who lives in Los 
Angeles.
 Kevin Pichinte tsawant@ucsd.edu
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
A.S. Election 2018
as.ucsd.edu/elections Vote on TRITONLINK
April 9-13
TO
THEFunds Are Being Raised to Improve the Road Lighting
▶ CAR ACCIDENT, from page 1The MOU Leaves Out Some Parties from Approval Process
▶ PLAN B, from page 1
Tyler Faurot   tfaurot@ucsd.eduHelen Nguyen   hcn008@ucsd.eduto [the A.S. Council] and let them 
know this came to our attention, and according to the MOU they 
need to go through the agreed-
upon process which may or may not result in these supplies being in the vending machine in the library. ” 
In the library’s response to 
Siegel-Singh and Moosighi, 
Friedman argues that Plan B pills 
do not fall under the category of 
“standard supply” that was initially 
agreed upon in the MOU. Some of the emails obtained by the Guardian suggest that the explanation given 
to Siegel-Singh and Moosighi for 
rejecting their proposal — that Plan B pills do not align with the intended purpose of the vending 
machine — was an honest reflection 
of the administration’s concerns and the library was prepared to deny Siegel-Singh and Moosighi’s plan even before it was officially 
submitted.
“ A case can be made that basic 
painkillers … contribute to activities 
that students are performing in the library, while the same can’t be said of contraceptives” Goodson wrote in an email to Friedman. “If a campus 
group/unit/individual opposed this 
and raised an issue with it, it would be hard to make a case that this fits in the library’s scope. ” This email 
was sent on Jan. 8, but the proposal 
wasn’t submitted until Jan. 17.
An hour later, Goodson sent 
an email to A.S. Council stating, 
“There’s no strong academic reason 
for placing these items in the library vending machine. Furthermore, as you know, according to the recently 
re-signed MOU, A.S. Council must 
go through the agreed upon process for approval of ‘limited health-related items’ that might be included 
in the machine. ”
It also appears that there are 
several other people, in addition 
to the library administration, who need to approve new health-related 
items that were not included in the 
MOU.
On Jan. 30, Executive Vice 
Chancellor for Academic Affairs Elizabeth Simmons sent an email to Interim University Librarian Tammy Dearie. In it, she states that 
“the MOU between Geisel and A.S. 
Council needs to be reworked. ”
Simmons also notes that 
the University Librarian and its 
designee do not have sole authority 
to decide which healthcare products 
should be sold in vending machines. 
“Such decisions are made in the 
broader context of consultation with 
the EVC’s office and health-related offices serving students. ”
The MOU is designated 
to terminate in June unless it is rewritten. The official campus statement reads, “ A meeting is currently being scheduled for the 
two parties to conduct their annual 
review with the goal of signing another MOU before the end of June.”them, and their families’ beautiful 
words comforted me endlessly. ” 
Nicole described Wilson and Kor-
bas as selfless, kind, and unique indi-
viduals. According to Nicole, Wilson 
wanted to dedicate her life to volun-
teer work and bettering communities 
around the world. 
“She frequently volunteered at a 
local soup kitchen and even was ac-
cepted into the Peace Corps, ” Nicole 
said. 
Nicole explained that Amanda 
earned her pilot’s license last year and was going to graduate and then work 
her dream job with Disney. 
“Both girls cared deeply for oth-
ers, had big dreams, and made the 
most of each day of their lives, ” Nicole 
said. 
Wilson and Korbas were also in-
volved in the Panhellenic commu-nity: Korbas, a member of Kappa Al-
pha Theta and Wilson, a member of 
Alpha Phi. 
“ Anna and Amanda were miracu-
lous people with bright futures who 
were taken in a tragic accident, ” Ni-cole said. “ They will continue to be 
honored by the people they knew and 
the positive energy they put out into 
the world. ”
The Korbas family started a Go-
FundMe account as a result of the incident, and plans to use the money 
raised to work with a council of Mexi-
can and American citizens in Puerto 
Penasco to improve lighting and sig-
nage on the poorly lit road where the 
accident occurred. 
“The accident, while tragic, was 
not was not caused by drunk driving nor reckless driving. It was mainly 
the result of a widely acknowledged, 
very dangerous, poorly lighted and designed stretch of road, ” said Anton 
Korbas, father of Amanda Korbas, on 
the GoFundMe page.
Anton Korbas also added that if 
any issues were to arise regarding us-ing the money made for that purpose, 
the money would then be donated to 
the Make A Wish Foundation, Aman-
da Korbas’ favorite charity.
follow  us  
on
        twitter@ UCSD
        GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
As of April 9, hundreds of 
Grade-A chumps will pass up the 
business opportunity of a lifetime as they begin to sell their precious 
and coveted Dining Dollars at 
a severely depreciated value. Fortunately for you, I’m here to divulge that business plan and to help make sure you don’t defecate the bed and make the same mistake 
that everyone else undoubtedly 
will.  
So, here’s what’s up … The first 
thing you need to do to get your 
business off the ground is to make 
an initial investment, and there’s no 
better time to do so than now when 
your investment is undervalued. So, take all the cash you have, and get 
yourself some Dining Dollars — as 
many as you can buy. Be sure to 
insist that each of the brainless flops 
selling to you gives you two Dining 
Dollars for each Washington that 
you give them. This is the standard 
exchange rate, so it shouldn’t be too 
hard a bargain.  
Now that you’re ballin’ in 
‘cash’, it’s time to pillage the 
markets. Drag your sorry self over 
to Roger’s Market and liberate 
every Hydro Flask, toaster, woman, 
and child. Your purchases here 
will serve as the products of your 
new resale business. And, this is 
where the magic happens. For, by 
purchasing hundreds of Hydro 
Flasks and other non-perishable items with the Dining Dollars that 
you bought at half price, you are 
effectively able to stock your new business for a lower cost than any 
of your big-name competitors: Walmart, Target, HDH, etc.  Now 
sitting in the driver’s seat, you 
have the opportunity to provide 
the most competitive prices to your 
customers, while also boasting higher markups than any of them, 
meaning more money and more 
business for you.
If you’re thinking this is too 
good to be true, you’re wrong. It is entirely legal to do everything 
I have outlined above. The only 
potential trouble arises from 
trademark infringement in the event 
that you use the logo of one of your resale products to advertise your 
business or its inventory. Simply 
stated, if you don’t do this, you 
can’t possibly fail.
Finally, if fistfulls of cash are 
all you desire, I suggest that you 
stop reading and waste not a second 
more. Though, if, in your heart, you 
long for more, a greater and nobler 
cause for which to live your life, stay with me now. 
As it turns out, if the department 
of Housing, Dining, and Hospitality 
maintains markups of less than 50 percent on any items, (meaning 
they sell goods for less than double 
what the company paid for them), 
it’s possible to supply your business 
at a lower expense than your own 
supplier. In such a case, with a bit 
of tact, you could strike a deal with 
HDH to become a supplier for the 
campus markets — the very ones 
that supply you. Thus, by making 
HDH your simultaneous supplier and consumer, you can concurrently rake in loads of cash and stick it to the administration.Everyone’s concept of beauty is slightly 
different but can be influenced by different 
societal norms. These beauty ideals 
unconsciously manifest themselves into our psyches and serve as another tool people use 
to treat others differently based on whether 
they check all the boxes of an ideal phenotype. Despite the variability of beauty standards, 
societal regulation of beauty can lead to 
discrimination and can affect the personal success of many people.
After commencement, UC San Diego 
students who do not attend graduate school are expected to enter the workforce where their grades, internships, and involvement at UCSD 
will be used as criteria to determine their 
competitiveness. However, there is yet another criteria not explicitly stated that employers 
will use to determine their candidacy: beauty. 
The so-called “beauty bias” is real; a survey by Newsweek asked hiring managers their 
thoughts on how beauty is associated with the 
hiring process. Hiring managers, more often than not, rated appearance above education 
when asked to list the important attributes 
they look for in an employee. People normally associate this bias with the hiring of women as 
“office toys” in the 1960s, but this activity still 
continues today despite the ostensible efforts toward equality in the American workforce. 
In addition, higher wages are given to those more attractive with the Wall Street Journal 
reporting that attractive people are likely to 
earn “$230,000 more over a lifetime.” Beauty 
is not an official point of comparison between employee candidates, but like every other 
bias, can give an unfair advantage to those 
more conventionally attractive.
This beauty bias is intertwined with 
Western beauty standards still prevalent in the United States, further relegating those with more racially diverse features. Even 
though the ethnic landscape of the United 
States is constantly evolving, conventional beauty standards have continued to exist as a niche category that is not very open to diverse 
standards. People of color, especially African 
Americans, face “workplace discrimination based on skin tone and hairstyles,” which 
can be an important factor that explains their 
underrepresentation in higher-level positions and the disparity of wages between races. This 
beauty bias therefore contributes to racial 
discrimination in the workplace.
How beauty plays into one’s success in 
the workplace is just one facet of how we are treated differently based on our appearance. Beautiful people are also considered more 
trustworthy and sympathetic than others — a 
phenomenon called the “what is beautiful is good” hypothesis. As more and more cases 
of sexual assault surfaced in the media, for example, the men who received a harsher 
backlash were those that were less attractive. 
The public outrage that James Franco, Ryan 
Seacrest, and Chris Brown faced was nowhere near to the backlash against Matt Lauer, 
Louis C.K. or Harvey Weinstein. Even though 
each man committed similar acts of sexual assault, Franco and Seacrest continue to have 
successful careers whereas Weinstein, Lauer, 
and C.K. might never return to the public eye. Even satirical outlets ranging from “Saturday 
Night Live” to comic strips use faults in 
appearance as a way to amplify the public distaste for bad actions. In SNL skits, for example, Weinstein’s actions are especially 
disgusting coming from a “human skin tag” 
while not commenting on the appearance of more attractive offenders. People are therefore 
not only treated differently when it comes 
to the workplace, but also in the amount of opposition they have regarding inappropriate 
actions. 
The beauty bias can affect your own life, 
but it can also cause you yourself to display your own bias toward others. Once we 
acknowledge that we have this unconscious bias, we can adapt the way we think to overlook 
the physical and focus on the personal. 
Clarisse V azquez  CPVASQUE@ucsd.eduHot or Not: The Beauty Bias in American Culture
By: Clarisse Vazquez // Sta ff WriterBorn out of the violence, chaos, and eventual failure of 
previous Palestinian protests, the Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions 
movement has attempted to redefine the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
by advocating for economic sanctions and raising the international 
community’s awareness of the various plights Palestinians have faced and continue to face. Like many civil rights movements before it, BDS has quickly taken hold in universities across the United 
States. The student bodies in almost all University of California 
campuses have championed BDS as a nonviolent, democratic form of political protest and pushed for the divestment of university holdings away from companies benefitting from the West Bank occupation. Instead of acting in accordance with student wishes, 
the UC Regents have used exaggerated concerns of anti-Semitism 
as a means of disregarding BDS and calls for divestment. However, support for divestment from Israel has continued to grow on UC campuses, and it is about time for the Regents to listen to the voices they represent. 
 B D S  d i f f e r s  f r o m  m o s t  p r e v i o u s  P a l e s t i n i a n  o r g a n i z a t i o n s  i n  
that it intends to unite previously-divided groups of Palestinians. According to UC San Diego Professor Gershon Shafir, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has led to the division of Palestinians into three 
major fragments: Palestinian refugees, Palestinians living under 
occupation, and Palestinians who are citizens of Israel. So far, 
BDS has mainly been successful in garnering international support 
against the West Bank occupation. Even though its original proposal of uniting all three Palestinian fragments may have been overly ambitious, BDS has increased global awareness and participation in the movement against the occupation and toward Palestinian rights.
After much debate and discussion, the student councils in seven 
out of the nine UC campuses —  every campus other than UC Santa Barbara and UC Merced — voted for divestment. UCSD itself passed a resolution for divestment in 2013. The companies targeted for divestment failed to denounce the occupation and in 
fact financially benefited from it. These include Hewlett Packard, 
Motorola, Cemex, and General Electric. Despite the considerable support divestment has in the UC community, the UC Regents have made no changes in their investment policy. Furthermore, in 2016, the Regents released a statement that disregarded the 
student body’s push for an economic boycott of Israel and also 
criticized what they called anti-Semitic movements taking place on UC campuses. Not only did this imply that BDS was in some way anti-Semitic, but it also bolstered the misconception that Jewish students are unanimously against BDS and all other pro-Palestinian 
organizations. In reality, a considerable portion of Jewish students 
support BDS and in no way view the movement as anti-Semitic.Having their own school take such an open stance on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict understandably may make Jewish students with 
opposing political perspectives worry about their place on campus. 
In part, such feelings are only exacerbated by the BDS movement 
policy of anti-normalization. Shafir explains that because it does 
not want to normalize the occupation, the BDS movement 
See DIVESTMENT , page 5
Breaking 
Things
Better
By: Jason Nideffer
By: Suzanne Golshanara // Sta ff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
▶ DIVESTMENT, from page 4
discourages Palestinians from collaborating with 
Israelis. This approach leads to a couple issues, 
however. More than just preventing Israelis and 
Palestinians from collaborating or at the very least 
coexisting peacefully, anti-normalization escalates 
tensions between the two groups and increases the 
likelihood of misunderstandings. The policy of anti-
normalization has negatively impacted Palestinian 
relations with Israelis globally as well as on college 
campuses. That being said, there can be a disagreement 
between the two sides without there being anti-
Semitism.   
Needless to say, anti-Semitism should have no place 
in any Israeli-Palestinian dialogue. However, by no means are Palestinian students or other supporters of 
the BDS movement inherently anti-Semitic and should 
certainly not be labeled as such. Cases such as the one 
at San Diego State University where “Muslim students 
… were labeled terrorists by people opposed to BDS” demonstrate that both Jewish and Palestinian rights to 
express their beliefs have been greatly distorted and 
suppressed. Because it did not differentiate between 
anti-Semitism and Palestinian criticisms of Israel, 
UC Regents merely perpetuated and worsened the 
impression that pro-Palestine movements need to be 
repressed. Criticisms of the Israeli government by 
Palestinian students should not be misconstrued as 
criticisms of Israeli people or of Jewish people. 
Both Israelis and Palestinians have a right to voice 
their opinions without fear of reprisal, yet by labeling Palestinian campaigns as anti-Semitic, UC Regents 
stifles an already far too stifled minority. On UC 
campuses, student bodies have spoken in opposition 
of the occupation and in favor of BDS. Whether UC 
Regents itself is a proponent of divesting is besides the 
point when it is the will of the student body to do so, 
and their behavior reveals a blatant dismissal of the decisions made on campuses statewide. 
SUZANNE GOLSHANARA  SMGOLSHA@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
“UC San Diego’s department of Housing Dining 
Hospitality is dedicated to meeting the needs of our clientele with the highest levels of professionalism, 
quality and affordability, while operating in a socially and environmentally responsible way. ”
This mission statement is highlighted, bolded, and italicized 
on the HDH website. Set a distance away from all other content, this statement flaunts a very practical and reasonable objective for HDH to follow. But does HDH actually live up to this, or is it all an empty promise? 
With UCSD freshmen immediately being greeted by the annual 
sum of $7,467 to $10,112 for an on-campus housing agreement, HDH’s “promise” to provide quality services for affordable prices is already put into question. On top of this, students are also required to purchase dining plans that range from a minimum of $2,740 to $3,900 a year. This still doesn’t account for the cost of laundry or maintenance services.
Yet, despite paying a 
couple hundred more to live on campus, students still seemingly experience several large frustrations. With dryers burning students’ clothing, raw food being served in dining halls, bug infestations merely being vacuumed up rather than dealt with, and fat content in foods soaring, it is no wonder student discontentment with this mega-organization has grown. Such frustration has even spilled over into the Facebook UCSD Meme Page, where images of “chicken sashimi” and flooded washing machines have inundated the page.
This begs the question: For the hefty amount students pay to 
live at UCSD, is this really fair? Does HDH really listen? Does it even care?
According to Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Damin 
Curtis, the answer to this is a resounding “no. ” Curtis was one of the many people who showed up at the recent HDH open forum that was held in Roger Revelle College. Serving as Director of Food at the Student Sustainability Collective, Curtis brought in a list of five demands — pertaining specifically to dining issues — that summed up student complaints about HDH. For him, the implementation of these demands are the answer to impacting real change, rather than just holding small forums here and there. 
“Coming and listening to our complaints is good but it’s not 
anywhere near far enough where I would like it to be, ” Curtis said, “In my mind there is nothing more than a symbolic difference between emailing HDH, having student representatives talk to HDH, [and] having HDH show up at a forum to hear our concerns. All of those things are just a way for HDH to listen to student concerns — which is good. But that doesn’t mean change will actually happen. ” 
Included in the list of demands are: the freedom to opt 
out of dining plans, competitive prices in the markets and dining halls, affordable healthy food, complete transparency with the student body, and the creation of a Student Oversight Committee. In fact, Curtis placed special emphasis upon the creation of a Student Oversight Committee, stressing the importance of having student representation in HDH and thus allowing for students to have a voice in major decisions that HDH makes. This Oversight Committee would essentially act as a group of students that would work in HDH, not only voicing student concerns but also having real 
decision-making power. 
This is, in some part, in retaliation to the recent Coca-Cola 
contract that HDH signed earlier this year. The contract ensures that HDH will receive $585,000 yearly in order to sponsor its events and programs, but at the same time, forces market prices to go up slightly by year. For many, the fact that HDH signed this contract without consulting the students — whom it claims to serve wholeheartedly — was the final straw. It showed that HDH did not care about student voices when it came to large-scale decisions.
This idea also feeds into the fact that students are not 
allowed to opt out of dining plans. Instead of allowing students themselves to have a say in how their money for food is spent, 
HDH’s mission statement is one that 
promises quality and 
professional services, 
all the while boasting 
of affordability. But 
does it really follow up 
on that, or is it all just 
an empty promise?
By Madeline 
Park // Editorial Assistant
 
“There is nothing more than 
a symbolic difference between 
emailing HDH, having 
student representatives talk 
to HDH, [and] having HDH 
show up at a forum to hear 
our concerns. ”
Why HDH 
Does Not 
Keep its 
Promises
ILLUSTRATION BY MICHI SORA
SeeHDH , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
they are forced to purchase multi-thousand-dollar plans, which in 
turn leads to higher rates of food insecurity and overall frustration. All of this is just so that HDH can have enough money to fund their programs. 
“HDH basically said that [it needs] the money to fund [its] 
programs. We don’t believe that we should be funding HDH programs. If it’s not something that students are choosing to buy or choosing to program, we shouldn’t be paying for it, ” Curtis remarked. “We 
believe student programming should come from organizations where 
students have a voice … I believe that organizations like student government are better equipped for this because they are inherently designed for student involvement, student voices, student democracy … You should not be mandating money from students because you want the programs to happen. Money for a program — if it’s gonna come from students — should come from students because they chose to pay for an event that shows it is following their needs and desires. ”
Comments made by HDH Director Mark Cunningham have only 
fed more fuel to the flame. In the past, he has called students “lazy” and has even told students to just move off campus if they don’t like the options they are presented with by HDH. Comments such as these are crass and frankly disappointing, further proving how little HDH takes into consideration students’ needs. Many students at UCSD don’t have the option to move off campus, whether that be because of personal or financial reasons. The fact that HDH isn’t willing to accommodate or listen to such students is frustrating to say the very least. 
On top of being forced into buying overpriced plans, the fact 
that HDH food is often of subpar quality makes it even harder for students to be content with the system. Yes, while there are simple mistakes such as the raw chicken (more infamously known as the “chicken sashimi incident”) that was served in Canyon Vista a couple of weeks back, several foods are considered to be highly unhealthy. One of the food items that was most heavily contested in the HDH Forum was the Pines torta, a delicious Mexican sandwich that turns out to be 129 percent of the recommended daily percentage of fat one should consume. Even the kale chicken caesar salad at 64 Degrees is a whopping 7,028 calories — meaning it is a full 5,028 more calories than the recommended daily 2,000. Also, the fact that there are so few healthy vegetarian and vegan alternatives — other than the singular specialty vegan restaurant, Roots — on campus speaks to the fact that the dining plans may not be best for everyone. In addition, the food is probably not helped by the fact that several students have found little bites of “extra protein” or bugs in their dishes.
This does not even begin to touch upon issues students have had 
with housing — specifically the laundry situation. With machines 
constantly broken down or in need of maintenance, and HDH 
not fixing them despite constant calls and requests from students, frustrations have quickly boiled over. As Sixth College student voiced at the forum, “Matthews Apartments is where the issues are. Dryers don’t work and there is no air. It eats your money, [and] sticky notes have been started to be placed by students. It has become socially acceptable to just take clothes out. ”
So what can students do to spur change? The answer lies in fostering 
better communication and transparency between the student body and HDH. But this “communication” should not just take on the form of random forums or sporadically scheduled exchanges, but should offer students a real say and a real way to enforce change. 
“I think [the student body has] been doing a fantastic job of 
organizing themselves through the meme page, rallying support, supporting each others’ critiques of HDH, and showing up to the HDH forum we recently had, ” Curtis stated. “The discontent among the students is strong and what students can do is continue to act on this, continue to have the discussion they’ve been having with each other, and most importantly, organize. Join a working group — for example, the food working group at the SSC … Organizing is the most effective thing students can do. Students need to organize their efforts and discontent so that their voice is a single unified voice that HDH has to answer to. ” 
Does UCSD really care about its students? If one were to look 
solely at HDH, the current answer would probably be no. Although HDH may not be an evil mega-conglomerate that seeks to exploit its customers, it definitely does not live up to its self-proclaimed mission. If students were to have a real say in their own housing and dining experience, maybe then HDH would begin to change for the better. 
▶ HDH , from page 6
Madeline Park    map048@ucsd.edu
follow  us  
on
        twitter
@ UCSD
        GUARDIANA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
As an introvert, the thought of having to endure a group project lasting an entire quarter sounds about as pleasant as getting all four wisdom teeth 
removed. Group projects can be daunting for everyone, but this is especially true for introverts. As a member of a research group this year, I have personally 
developed a few pieces of advice that could help those who must endure group work but aren’t necessarily extroverted or outgoing.
1.     Embody your favorite confident person (real or imaginary).
It can be intimidating to pluck up the courage to contribute to discussion in the same way that an extroverted person would. Sometimes it is easier to 
envision yourself as a character (either real or imaginary) that you admire in order to emulate those qualities. “Fake it until you make it, ” and eventually you will have enough practice to automatically resort to these key group work qualities.
2.     Ask what you will be discussing in advance.
Sometimes an introvert needs to look through material on their own before they can decide how they will express their opinions. Make sure to ask the 
group leader what will be discussed in meetings, such as a specific article or research paper. Take the extra step to look through the material on your own 
and write some questions or comments that you would like to contribute to your group. Not only will this allow you to understand the material on a deeper 
level, but it will give you the necessary information to contribute to discussion without having to come up with spontaneous dialogue.
3.     Remember that group members are not your friends.
When I first joined my research group, I wanted to be as nice as possible, and I refrained from bringing in my own differing opinions because I didn’t 
want to seem too aggressive. Eventually, I stopped bringing in any input. My research partners and I are not best friends, and that’s totally OK. However, that shouldn’t keep me from contributing my own opinions. Having different viewpoints is what fosters diversity and can help with covering an array of topics, especially in research. As long as you remain courteous, it is better to contribute to the discussion rather than to keep your suggestions to yourself.
4.     Be professional.Foster an environment that is inclusive of all people and all viewpoints. Not everyone will have the same thought on everything, and it can sometimes 
be difficult to contribute an opinion that may not be popular. Make sure that everyone feels comfortable in contributing to discussion. Try to imagine this 
is your job and not class, and remember to remain courteous to maintain that professional atmosphere.
5.     Do your work!
If a group member never brings in opinions during discussions, and never does their work, this can lead to a negative attitude from other group 
members. If you’re still struggling to contribute in group discussions, make sure you are still keeping up to date with the work you are assigned. If there is a particular area of work that you are most efficient in, try and volunteer for those positions so you can make sure you are bringing your best work forward.
The idea of a group project can be daunting, but if you keep these tips in mind and try your best, a group project can be just as effective for extroverts 
and introverts. Good luck!
As Spring Quarter begins and summer is on the horizon, many of us are scrambling to come up with plans for our upcoming time off. We’re 
working our connections, searching for internships, jobs, or study abroad opportunities to keep us busy during summer. If you’re still in the middle of this hunt, my recommendation would be to find an opportunity to work with kids. They’re messy, mean, and melodramatic, but they are also some of the funniest and sweetest people you’ll ever know.
This summer, I’ll be returning to the middle school I once had the joy of attending. Instead of being a student this time around, I am now Ms. 
C, where I’m returning to my position at the summer school program. In the mornings, I work in a writing class alongside a teacher and in the afternoon I lead an art class by myself. I have never actually taken an art class as a student before, but how hard could it be? (Hint: harder than I 
thought!)
The mornings went as well as one could have expected. It came as no surprise to me that sixth-grade students on the verge of failing, forced to 
spend a month of their summer vacations in a stuffy, portable classroom, did not feel compelled to complete the work given to them. I was in an English class where the goal was to have each student turn in a compare and contrast essay by the end of the program. The teacher and I tried giving 
them sample ideas: dogs vs. cats, winter vs. summer, cell phones vs. computers, etc. Again, given our feeble attempts at topic ideas, I felt I could not blame these kids for not having an interest. We had to dig deeper into what might spark some kind of enthusiasm, as well as encourage them 
to come up with their own topics. Many boys chose Nike vs. Adidas, Batman vs. Superman, and even Gucci vs. Balenciaga. I was surprised by the 
sheer number of girls that decided to write their essays on SOB X RBE vs. Mike Sherm because I had never even heard of these rappers. They were shocked by my lack of knowledge. Assuming that only old people don’t know Mike Sherm or SOB, they peppered me with questions to investigate 
the cause of my ignorance. How old am I? Was I married? Do I have any kids? One student asked me if I had finished college yet. Before I could 
answer, his friend interrupted with, “Of course she hasn’t! She’s barely 26!” Two weeks in and I felt the onset of an existential crisis; when did I, at 18, become old and out of touch?
At least teaching my art class would be easier (a thought that I now laugh at). For the first week, I led a unit in painting. My students became 
Picassos as they attempted their own versions of monochromatic paintings using only different shades of a single color. In reality, girls painted “Mike Sherm” inside of hearts and the boys painted each other. Toward the end of the week, some girls came running up to me, “Ms. C! Ms. C! Come quick! 
Look in the bathroom!” Apparently, another group of girls that went to “wash paint brushes” had other ideas. Upon arrival, I was greeted by a lovely, 
lavender-colored painting all over two of the bathroom walls: hand stamps from floor to ceiling with a beautiful inscription of the word “b---h” in the center. Sadly, it was actually the closest thing to a monochromatic painting I had seen all day. 
Through the summer, the program continued to present challenges reflected through the lack of student interest and their desire to break rules. 
However, though it may have felt difficult at times, it is impossible not to feel attached to students. I hadn’t anticipated feeling so involved in students’ lives. I worried a bit when a student was absent. I watched some students struggle with their writing and I wanted more than anything to see them 
keep at it and improve. One student was constantly on the verge of being kicked out of summer school. If he had, he would repeat the sixth grade; 
as rude and rowdy as he was, it was the last thing I wanted to see happen. Perhaps that’s the future teacher in me speaking, but I do believe anyone who takes a job with children would feel the same. 
I still think of some of my students (not that I play favorites!) and wonder how they’re doing in school this year. I want to say that I hope to see 
them again this summer, but, as it is summer school, come June I better not see them! I was terrified for this job to begin, but I was really able to grow more as both a person and student. Being thrown into a classroom with 20 something middle schoolers gives you no choice but to find your 
voice as a leader and embrace flexibility because almost nothing will go as planned in your head. But that’s the fun of it! It may feel like a lot when 
you’re scrubbing lavender paint off of a bathroom wall or breaking up a water fight during lunchtime, but the relationships you form with students and coworkers are more than worth it in the end. 
This summer, consider applying for a job with kids! Work as a camp counselor, at summer school programs, or anything else you can find. 
Whether you’ve got lots of experience or none at all, it is never a job you’ll regret. Just familiarize yourself with SOB before you start! An Introvert’s Guide to Group P rojects 
by Samirah Martinez // Staff Writer
Summer School Tales from Ms. C
by Colleen Conradi // Staff WriterLIFESTYLE            THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Like many college students, I used to not talk to my professors for a myriad of reasons, with 
the main one being that I wasn’t sure where to start. There always seems to be an awkward 
sense of respect in a student-professor relationship that discourages students, like myself, from 
talking to professors and attending office hours. But this year, in the name of self-improvement, every other week I will be interviewing UC San Diego professors, deans, and other faculty 
members to better understand the person behind the desk. So, get ready to learn everything 
from where they go after class to their opinions on Beyoncé. And of course, we have to take some selfies!
This week, I decided to interview Dr. Christina Johnson from the department of chemistry 
and biochemistry. Many STEM majors, including myself, know her from the CHEM 6 series but she also teaches upper division courses chemistry such as CHEM 109, recombinant DNA lab. 
Dr. Johnson’s favorite part of being a professor is getting to know her students through office 
hours. It is during this time that she gets to show her love of teaching and dispel some common misconceptions: “Students think that I’m either too mean or too nice, like they can get away 
with anything. It’s one or the other. ” While this may be false, she does want her students to 
succeed. For those that truly want to do well in her class, she said that students must be willing to work hard and come to office hours for help. Plus, in her office, she has a bowl of candy with 
chocolate and many other treats.
While she loves her students, Johnson has also had some crazy student encounters during class, but this one was a highlight and the epitome of college life. “Probably during Sun God, 
we used to have it on Friday. So that Friday, I think seven guys came running through my 
classroom completely naked with UCSD written down their chests. That’s an image you can’t 
burn out (of your head). ” 
Although it’s always insightful to get academic advice from a professor, it’s also important to 
learn more about who they are as person. Johnson is more than just a professor. She is just as human as her students, she loves binging on “Stranger Things” and “The Walking Dead” with her husband and spending the summer watching movies with her kids. She, like many curious 
college students, loves to explore new places and the beaches in San Diego, where you probably 
can find her on the weekends. And finally, I had to ask her the most important question that determines whether I remain friends with someone: Is Dr. Christina Johnson a Beyoncé stan? 
To which she responded, “She’s an amazing singer.”
Since, she clearly had an appreciation for my queen, I finished my interview by asking 
Johnson for some life advice to which she responded, “ Always be glad, no matter what happens. Always find the good, and you will be much happier in the long run. ” I hope this positive and 
endearing message reminds you to be open minded about your professors and maybe stop by after class to say “hello. ” You just might find that the person behind the lectern is more 
approachable than you might think.
In today’s competitive workforce, it is becoming less about what you know and more about 
who you know. This shocking truth is why networking in college is crucial — without help from others it is merely impossible to stand out when applying for highly saturated careers 
after college. 
So what exactly is networking? Networking is establishing relationships with peers to add 
or receive value to further one’s career. A common misconception I hear students make about networking is that it’s only for business savvy people. However, any student can sharpen this skill with effective practice, ultimately making the transition from graduation to career that 
much easier. 
As a business psychology major at UC San Diego, networking was an important principle 
I learned early on. Adopting this mindset, I started to view everyday interactions as an opportunity to expand my personal network. For example, I set out a goal to connect with at 
least one new person before leaving a restaurant or store; after exchanging names and sharing our personal backgrounds, I could now add them to my network. This strategy often resulted 
in a win-win situation — improving both my networking skills and receiving discounts on 
clothes and meals.
However, networking is more than having a conversation with someone, exchanging 
contact information, and hoping to exchange value with each other — it’s cultivating a relation overtime. Below are three essential steps every college student should take to ensure they make the most out of any networking situation. 
1. Take initiative. A strong network is developed through hundreds of direct approaches and diligence. One of the most valuable, yet underused, resources for college students are professors’ office hours. Think about it, professors offer an hour of their time each week to 
talk and answer any student questions. Pick a professor that shares an aligned interest, write 
out a list of questions to ask them, and request an appointment to find out more about their experience. 
2. Build rapport. This is required if one desires to solidify a friendship or relationship 
with someone. Rapport is essentially building mutual trust and affinity, usually developed by discussing similar interests and ideas. This unity can be formed in several different 
ways. To capitalize on networking opportunity be sure to the following: research the person 
beforehand, create shared experiences, and mirror their behavior. For example, if a student is meeting with a professor who has an optimistic personality and is best known for their 
success in STEM research, an effective way to build rapport in this situation would be to ask 
questions that are both hopeful and STEM related.
3. Stay connected. A big mistake many students make is forgetting to follow-up. 
Throughout the quarter, it’s important to regularly check-in with one’s most valuable contacts, whether it’s sending an email or grabbing a cup of coffee. I personally check in with valuable contacts every three to four months — updating them with my latest accomplishments and 
current struggles. This will often stimulate insightful advice or potential opportunities such 
as internships, scholarships, and relevant events.P rofessor , Can We Take a Selfie? 
Featuring: Dr . Christina Johnson
by Natalie Duprey // Staff Writer
Networking as a College Student
by Fred Grier // Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF NATALIE DUPREY10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
“Ready Player One” is classic Spielberg at work, brimming with both dynamism and old-school action adventure.
First things first — “Ready Player One” 
is one of those movies you watch for the spectacle. Not for any profound 
themes, not for any intricately woven plotting, and definitely not for deep contemplation. You watch it for the medley of pop culture, vibrant colors, and explosive action. For pure 
entertainment.
“Ready Player One” is based on Ernest 
Cline’s polarizing novel of the same name, 
which honestly, I didn’t like. The book played heavily into the 80s nostalgia factor. 
Translation: It pretended the only surviving 
pop culture was from the 80s, and then proceeded to bash readers over the head with it (which many apparently enjoyed). Of 
course, the clunky prose, long paragraphs 
listing movie and video game titles, and overall inelegant storytelling didn’t help. 
So, coming in with extremely low 
expectations (mentally prepared to suffer for 
two hours), I was happy to see that director Steven Spielberg’s take was only inspired by 
the source material. Of course, the basic premise is still shared: It’s 2045, and living in 
virtual reality is the only thing anyone ever 
does since real life “is a bummer. ” Twenty-seven years from now, America becomes a dystopian future where most of the population 
has fallen on hard times, so everyone just 
plays VR games all day.
Fair enough. Technology-wise, the VR system that 
encompasses the movie is very plausible — 
only a few steps up from today’s platforms. 
The system in “Ready Player One, ” dubbed OASIS, is founded by a recently-deceased character named James Halliday. As his last 
will and testament, Halliday promised all his 
wealth and fortune to the player who can find the three easter eggs he’s planted in his VR multiverse. Scruffy protagonist Wade Watts (Tye Sheridan) acts as the audience’s pop 
culture ambassador, narrating all of this to give the viewers some initial grounding. Then, 
with dull-but-necessary exposition out of the way, Spielberg finally launches into the good 
stuff: the hunt for these easter eggs. 
As a story, “Ready Player One” benefits 
a lot more from the cinematic medium. 
Where the book contrived long paragraphs of 
blatant “references” via exposition and corny 
dialogue, the movie translates all of this into raw visual and auditory energy. We don’t have to read lengthy descriptions of Wade’s car, and how many movies or TV shows it 
incorporates, we just watch it in action. We 
don’t have to read on about the varied cultural tastes of his friends, we notice them in the background. As a form of entertainment, 
Spielberg’s adaptation is already a step up. 
Coupled with decorated film composer Alan Silvestri’s soaring score and a select choice of songs, it has a very old-school adventure movie vibe.
And yet, both the movie and book suffer from the fact that plot is secondary for “Ready Player One:” the story is really just an excuse to mash pop culture together in an extended 
celebration of nostalgia. This inevitably 
results in some structural inconsistencies and questionable character choices, but again, depth isn’t really the point. What narrative 
there is allows for a lot of fun, resulting 
in a fast-paced action adventure movie that culminates in a surprisingly heartfelt conclusion. 
The takeaway is this — Spielberg’s “Ready 
Player One” is a kinetic visual trip through contemporary nerd culture and geekdom. It’s a highlight reel of the past few decades, smashed and condensed into a pulpy, cinematic ride. 
Even if you don’t get all the references, it’s still 
a solid time.
—  derek  deng 
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
ready  pla yer  one
PHOTO COURTESY OF CNET
Directed by   Steven Spielberg
Starring  Tye Sheridan, Olivia Cooke, Lena Waithe, Ben Mendelsohn, Mark 
Rylance, Simon Pegg, Win Morisaki, Hannah John-Kamen
Release Date  March 29, 2018
Rated  PG-13CB
@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
fac eb o o kA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Promoting a relatively new practice of synthesizing computer science with music composition, Shelly Knotts discussed and performed her coded art. 
Performative coding is a musical art form 
in which the coder/composer’s live source code 
is projected alongside a set of visuals or music 
created by said code. This creative display 
of a programming language unintelligible to the audience seeks to expose the humanity behind the work. Yet, while praising the 
collaboration and transparency apparently 
inherent in performative coding, coder Shelly Knotts, along with her fellow composers, failed to maintain the audience’s attention and appreciation during the event due to its 
chaotic mash of competing, random sounds 
and lack of an understandable explanation for the coding on screen.
The coding performance event took 
place on April 5 in Atkinson Hall at UC San Diego. In the first live presentation, coded and organized by the Orchestra For Females And Laptops, six internationally-based female performers exuded a disarray of hollow beats, unsettling purring and clicks, deafening rocket launches, screeching birds, and high-pitched, 
10-minute long feedback. While the projected 
chat box between the six members amusingly broadcasted their frantic attempt to find and quiet the source of the electronic disruption, 
listeners were left with a shocking 20-minute 
pandemonium in the dark. 
Afterward, Knotts admitted to the 
difficulties of attempting to balance the sounds generated from the various composers 
yet emphasized the elevation of equality and 
participation in collaborative live coding. As a director, she holds the task of assessing and dramatizing the dominant characteristic 
noises from each producer, yet Knotts 
lacks control over the individual decisions and contributions, allowing room for the unruliness present in the performance.Such a synergy between coding composers, 
however, drastically contrasts to that of solo live coding, performed by Knotts herself after 
OFFAL. Describing performative coding’s 
freedom of control and individualistic perspective, Knotts further elaborated on its origins in Mexico City as a project between 
large groups of “blank slate live coders” 
who sought to create without any guides or preparation. She underlined the significance of criticism received through such platforms in shaping her optimistic approach to her 
budding work. 
Knotts’ second performance subtly 
mimicked electronic dance music, 
accompanied by hi-hat variations, fading 
tenor hums, and intensifying cadences. As 
opposed to OFFAL ’s clash of sounds, Knotts melded layer after layer of looping and complementary tones, gradually designing her own style according to her perception of the audience’s desires. Yet, instead of using a chat board, she displayed her source code, which 
remained largely incoherent to its consumers. 
Rather than providing comments as a way of offering context or aesthetically forming the code to at least gratify a visual aspect of the 
performance, Knotts exhibited a clump of 
letters, numbers, and random symbols, barely squeezed into the frame.
Thus, while raving over her cyberfeminist, 
open structure of performative coding, 
Knotts’ two presentations demonstrated the 
raw infancy of the cooperative concoction. Though still evolving, it struggles to attract and answer the musical appetites of this 
generation.
—  katrina  ngo
Contributing Writerimprov.exe:   
Forging  New  Music  
on  the  Code
 PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD VISUAL ARTS12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
Current hitman and aspiring actor Barry Berkman dreads having to perform another murder and, worst of all, matinees.
Four years have passed since “Barry” was 
originally announced, but the wait has proven to be worth it. Hailing from the 
combined creative forces of former “Saturday Night Live” star Bill Hader and seasoned TV comedy writer Alec Berg (“King of the Hill, ” “Silicon V alley”), “Barry” starts by presenting 
us with the workaday life of the titular Barry, a 
budget midwestern assassin. He’s good at what he does and his handler Monroe Fuches (Stephen Root) keeps the cases coming without fail. But somewhere along the way, Barry lost what little 
sense of fulfillment he had in life. With no friends, 
no family, no hobbies, and no aspirations, he was reduced to no more than his job. Just another cog in the machine, albeit a lethal one. On the behest 
of Goran Pazar, an upset husband and Chechen 
mob boss seeking revenge, a down-beaten Barry flies west to Los Angeles to assassinate Ryan Madison (Tyler Jacob Moore), the young gym trainer who has exceeded his professional duties 
with Pazar’s wife. What Barry doesn’t know is that 
this trip, predicated on no more than the anger of a cuckolded Chechen man, would bring Barry the first joy he’s felt in years. 
Dutifully tailing his target throughout the 
greater Los Angeles area and its accompanying 
traffic, Barry discovers that Ryan is a hopeful 
(and soon enough, completely hopeless) actor when he stops by at a local theater. Missing the heat and X-ray vision that so many humans 
lack, Barry is forced to leave the car and get a 
closer look if he wants to keep track of Ryan’s whereabouts. After making his way in, he sticks to his preferred dark corner and begins to observe the stage before Ryan — clad in dreads for a 
pivotal scene as Gary Oldman in “True Romance” 
— goes up on stage and calls out for volunteers. With no sane and/or willing participants, Ryan’s obliviousness gets the best of him, and he calls 
out for “the guy in the back. ” Barry hesitates, but 
relents, dryly complying with the script handed to him. A squatting Ryan makes a fool of himself and Barry’s performance is robotic at best, but the other struggling actors in the audience clap 
anyway. The ability to repress emotion is a trait 
that comes in handy for hitmen but much less so for aspiring actors. Barry discovers his passion for theater in the praise he receives, out of pity or not.
External forms of validation are an actor’s 
bread and butter, and Barry learns that he’s no 
exception when he’s invited to hang out with the 
others at a local bar after the night’s performances. Even worse, he’s beginning to bond with these people despite a lack of any concerted effort put 
toward socializing. Executing a stranger is easy 
enough, but executing a fellow thespian who wants nothing but the glory of the silver screen?
“Barry” cuts through a bitterness that colors 
its world of executions and existential crises 
with an expert sense of hysteria-inducing humor 
and pacing well-suited for the eight 30-minute episodes this season has in store. There are multiple instances in which the show’s dialogue 
seems like it could be effortlessly slipped into 
an episode of “Seinfeld, ” (no doubt due in part to Berg’s experience in its writers room) and is all the greater for it. The characters’ complaints about the costume choices and stage direction in 
between scenes of suburban garage torture are an 
advanced exercise in human pettiness. 
The show sits somewhere between “30 Rock” and “Baskets” in its humor, settling in the groove of a mundane reality with a surreal fringe punctuated by bouts of violence and heavy arts 
references. Unlike “30 Rock, ” where every minute 
is packed with as much dialogue and visual humor as possible, there’s much more breathing time in the understated reality of “Barry. ” Scenes 
aren’t afraid to linger, make us uncomfortable, 
and really sell a glance or stare under Bill Hader’s direction. A small, but strong, cast with heavy hitters such as Root and Henry Winkler, the latter starring as the passionately cruel (and vice 
versa) acting coach Gene Cousineau who fancies 
himself more Juilliard than geriatric, are rounded out with fresher faces that keep the show from just becoming a place for SNL alum to make cameos. 
If the first two episodes are a strong indication of 
the season that follows, then “Barry” might easily stake a claim as 2018’s best new comedy.
—  Sam  velazquez 
Senior Staff Writer
TV   REVIEW
barry
PHOTO COURTESY OF LA TIMES
Created by   Bill Hader & Alec Berg
Starring  Bill Hader, Stephen Root, Henry Winkler, Sarah Goldberg
Airing   Sundays at 10:30 PM on HBOCa-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
40TH ANNUAL CULTURAL CELEBRATIONTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 9 - APR 152018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANSATURDAY, APRIL 14
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
7pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BATTLE OF THE 
BANDS - THE LOFT, PC EAST
Come to the Loft on April 10, 2017 to watch the 
four student bands perform and battle it out for the 30 minute opening set on the MAIN STAGE 
at Sun God Festival 2018! Contact: 
ascemarketing@ucsd.edu
1:45pm
TOASTMASTERS OPEN HOUSE - 
GOVERNANCE CHAMBERS, PC EAST, 
4TH FLOOR
Afraid of speaking? Toastmasters is a great place 
to practice! Join us for an open house and learn about how you can become a more confident speaker and leader with the help of friends and peers who are working towards the same goal. Go at your own pace, speak as much as you want and make progress towards becoming an effective communicator! Contact: erjohnson@ucsd.edu
4pm
SPRING STARTUP RECRUITMENT 
FAIR - THE BASEMENT, 
MANDEVILLE CENTER
Interested in working at a startup? Curious about 
the Basement? Connect with Basement startups currently recruiting motivated students to join their teams! There will be Basement startups actively recruiting students of various talents and interests, so be sure to bring your resume! Students of ALL majors are encouraged to come. Not sure if you're ready to join an existing team? Well still have many opportunities for you to network with skilled entrepreneurs, business-savvy startup founders, and other like-minded individuals. RSVP HERE: http://bit.ly/BasementSpringFairRSVP . Make sure to bring your resume! Contact: thebasement@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: DIY PET ROCKS - 
THE LOFT, PC EAST
You and your pet rock - name a more iconic duo. 
We'll wait. A pet rock will not only be a sturdy, unbreakable companion that can take care of itself, but it will also be an ever-loving presence for you through ups and downs, through thick and thin. And really, what more could you ask for? Contact: ascemarketing@ucsd.eduTUE4.10
THU4.12
9am
SOCIAL INNOVATION SPRINT: 
SAN DIEGO -TIJUANA BORDER 
ISSUES - UC SAN DIEGO
Want to learn about design thinking and 
social entrepreneurship, develop solutions to pressing social issues, earn a certificate, and compete for $15k worth of prizes? Then check out the Social Innovation Sprint, a two-day workshop + design competition hosted by the Jacobs School of Engineering and the Rady School of Management at UC San Diego. Faculty will guide teams of high school, undergraduate, and graduate students to define, prototype and pitch solutions to a panel of CEOs, educators, and city officials. The design challenge this quarter will focus on issues relevant to the San Diego-Tijuana border region, including environmental justice, sustainable education, healthcare access, and migration. Applications are now open: https://socialinnovationsprint.com/. Contact: eloui@ucsd.edu
10am
40TH ANNUAL CULTURAL 
CELEBRATION - THURGOOD MARSHALL COLLEGE
Celebrate cultural diversity and unity 
through food, dance, music, and art from around the world at Thurgood Marshall College's 40th Annual Cultural Celebration in partnership with UC San Diego's Triton Day! Savor delicious international cuisine and pick up artisan crafts from local vendors. Enjoy live entertainment from campus and community organizations. Engage your little ones in educational and interactive exhibits at the Childrens Village. This event is FREE and EVERYONE is invited! Contact: clargoza@ucsd.eduSAT4.14MON4.09
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Visit icafe.ucsd.edu or follow us on Facebook 
for weekly menus! Entry $5 per person. Finish the week off right at the International Friday 
Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy 
international music, and explore world cultures 
all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: WISE 
MIND - GALBRAITH HALL ROOM 
190
Emotional Mind + Logical Mind = WISE Mind. 
Wise mind is when both parts of the mind work together in harmony. Learn how to effectively tolerate everyday stressors, communicate effectively while maintaining self-respect and relationships, and improve your relationship with your emotions while living a life in accordance to your values. Contact: pnili@ucsd.edu
7pm
JUDAS UNICORN: THE STAGED 
READING - VAF 306 
PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL 
ARTS FACILITY
Stemming from MFA student Sam Wohl's 
graphic novel, JUDAS UNICORN, this play was developed with Professors Deborah Stein, Robert Brill and Robert Castro from UC San Diego Theatre and Dance. The reading will be staged in conspiracy with the talented and prolific theatre group Company 157. Judas Unicorn is an allegory about the struggle to maintain the integrity of being human in a malnourished society and explores themes of violence masked as compassion, the politics of love, and the banality of evil. It holds up a mirror to the world at this moment in our history and asks us to face our own propensity for violence, and instead to cultivate empathy and kindness, even if our sense of identity is obliterated. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: PEACE OF 
MIND MONDAYS - GALBRAITH HALL 
ROOM 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but do 
you wish to learn how to navigate them better? In 
Peace of Mind workshops, you learn how to live in 
the moment, manage your emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness and identify what is really important in your life. Contact: plamatya@ucsd.edu
3pm
REV’D! - YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MOOD - REVELLE COLLEGE ADMIN 
BUILDING RM 114, CONF RM EAST
Provost Yu invites Revelle Students, Faculty, 
Alumni, and staff to drop in Mondays 3-4pm, Revelle Admin Bldg/Advising Bldg for REV’d - 
Revelle Engages in Verve Development! Light 
refreshments. Refresh! Rejuvinate! Get REV’d!
7pm
PERSPECTIVES LECTURE: CORAL 
DOCTORS - BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
This lecture will overview the collaborative work 
of a coral reef ecologist and a cell biologist in their quest to understand the effects of global climate change on coral biology. FRI4.13WED4.1110AM · THURGOOD MARSHALL COLLEGE
5:30pm
CREATING THE POLIN MUSEUM 
- ATKINSON HALL AUDITORIUM
Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett will explore 
the creation of the POLIN museum and its 
multimedia narrative exhibition honoring the 
lives of those who have passed. This event will be held Wednesday, April 11 from 5:30-7 p.m. in Atkinson Hall Auditorium. A light reception will precede the talk at 4:30 p.m. The Core Exhibition is a journey through 
1000 years of the history of Polish Jews and 
comprises eight galleries presenting their 
heritage and culture. The galleries portray successive phases of history, spanning the 
legends of arrival to the beginnings of 
Jewish settlement in Poland and the 
development of Jewish culture. The event is free and open to the public. Contact: 
mfellows@ucsd.edu
6pm
SHAPE YOUR CAREER - SPRING 
2018 - LIEBOW AUDITORIUM 
(ROOM 2100 ), BASIC SCIENCE 
BUILDING, UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
Helping you prepare for 21st century jobs, 
The Basement and OIC have teamed together to deliver this timely series. Learn about the basic elements when developing an idea and starting a business. The program is CCR-approved, you must complete at least 5 sessions for CCR credit. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
APR 10
National
FarmAnimalsDayCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Health clubs
5. Valleys10. Workbench clamp
14. Emporium
15. Praise
16. Indian of Peru17. On a cruise18. Identical
19. RBI, e.g.
20. Frightened
22. Registers24. Rapidity25. Pointed weapon
26. Least hard
30. ____ a boy!
33. Single thing37. Lipstick shades38. Night sound
40. Movie fish
41. Work with dough
43. Prepare tea44. Noblewomen46. Alike47. Queries48. Mine find49. Futile52. Ventured54. Small landmass59. Happy one61. Camera opening64. Brat’s stocking stuffer65. More frigid67. Prince Charles’s sister68. Chorus voice69. Main artery70. Foremost71. Converge72. Misplaces73. QuarryDOWN
 1. Shatter2. Macaroni, e.g.3. Zones
4. Commence
5. Negotiate
6. Car part7. Placed8. BPOE member
9. Soaks
10. View
11. Insides12. Injury mark13. Devours
21. Golf device
23. Butterfly catchers
25. Bun seed27. Noah’s boat28. Felt
29. Best
31. “Star ____”
32. Makes a dress33. Unfasten34. Not far35. Instantaneous36. Shoe front39. Hoop gp.42. ____ Plaines45. Positive50. Continuing story51. Mister53. Mete out55. Postage mark56. Of the moon57. Bert’s friend58. Quite small59. Swindle60. Double agent61. Ventilates62. ____ Sampras of tennis63. Distinct times66. Dove’s commentHOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - 
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, 
CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments community in San Diego offers pet-friendly 
one and two bedroom apartment homes 
with comfortable, spacious, and bright 
open floor plans.Our community features a large sparkling swimming pool, beauti -
ful courtyards, BBQ areas, free reserved parking, on-site laundry facility, on-site management, 24 hour emergency mainte -
nance, WiFi hotspots available in common 
areas through Cox Communications......ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 - 
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, 
CA 92115. These floor plans include spa -
cious one, two and three bedrooms, some 
poolside or upgraded. Being located in 
the heart of the college area you will find 
shopping centers, banks, a library, schools, freeways and more. Enjoy amenities such as 
a refreshing Olympic sized swimming pool, 24 hour emergency maintenance, on-site 
laundry facilities, WIFI hotspots in the com -
mon areas through Cox Communications, a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our 
other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE 
assigned parking, a refreshing pool and BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emer -
gency maintenance, and a courtyard foun -tain. We hope you will call or stop by and 
we look forward to making The Diplomat 
your new home!....ucsdguardian.org/clas-
sifieds for more information
JOBS
Accounting clerk. BalaCent LLP . Carlsbad, 
CA 92011. Data enter Accounts Payable and 
reconcile credit cards. 8 hours per week. 
Prefer Accounting Student. If candidate 
shows promise more hours may be pos-
sible. Flexible hours to fit student’s sched-
ule.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Part Time Recreational Gymnastics Coaches. 
Emerald City Academy of Rhythmic 
Gymnastics. San Diego, CA 92131. Looking 
for that special person with an upbeat, 
energetic personality. Enthusiasm required! 
The ideal candidate has gymnastics experi -
ence, loves children, and has a flexible 
schedule. Coaching experience preferred 
but we will train the right person. Must 
enjoy working in an environment with 
children and parents and be able to com -
municate with both.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Independent Medical Sales Rep (1099). 
Script Relief. San Diego, CA 92101 USA. We’re looking for enthusiastic sales reps to 
go to doctors’ offices and leave behind kits 
of these cards at the reception desk and 
other accessible areas. In order to facilitate 
the process for our reps, our sales team 
uses a special website that provides list -
ings of available doctors in your area. We will also provide training to acclimate you to the whole business.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Used 2006 Mazda Mazda6 Grand Sport 
i. San Diego, CA 92111. The impressive 
Mazda fuel-efficiency will make you quickly 
realize what youve been missing out on 
in life. Its noteworthy fuel economy and 
minimal emissions make this vehicles value 
a cut above the rest. In addition to being 
well-cared for, this Mazda Mazda6 has very low mileage making it a rare find....ucsd-guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, 
CA 92110. 4D Crew Cab, Some rebates 
may require you to finance through our 
preferred lender, Price includes: $1,000 - 
General Motors Consumer Cash Program. 
Exp. 01/31/2018, $1,000 - Silverado 
Incremental Consumer Cash....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Toyota RAV4 for sale. San Diego, 
CA 92115. Black 2015 Toyota RAV4 LE FWD 
six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE 
OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i 120 Point Inspection & Full Detail Performed, Gas $aver, Brakes Serviced, Bluetooth, 
RAV4 LE, 4D Sport Utility, 2.5L four Cyl 
DUAL OVERHEAD CAM Dual VVT-i, six Gear 
Automatic, FWD, Black, Gray Cloth.Clean CARFAX, Clear title, ASE Certified Complete Inspection. Recent Arrival!...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
what do you
need? let us
help.
price center east, level 3asgraphicstudio.ucsd.eduasgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
The UC San Diego men’s 
tennis team faced off against 
Concordia Irvine University in a match at the Northview Tennis Courts in La Jolla, California. 
The Tritons took four singles 
games and two doubles games 
to secure the 6–3 victory over the Eagles and improve to 9–5 
overall. 
The day started with the 
doubles matches: sophomore 
tandem Marc Isaia and Sreeganesh Manoharan at the No.1 spot, seniors Eric Tseng and Justin Zhang at the No. 2 spot, and freshman Eskil Jarlskog and junior Richard Han coming in at 
the No. 3.
Isaia and Manoharan quickly 
dispatched their opponents, 
freshman Florian Mayer and junior Daniel Reddman, 8–1. The No. 2 doubles game was much closer — Tseng and Zhang dropped five games to the duo of freshman Thomas Kyle and 
senior Man Ho Ko to grab an 8–5 
set win.
Jarlskog and Han fell short, 
losing 8–5 to the Eagles’ No. 3 team, consisting of juniors Nikita Katsnelson and Shimon Murakami. 
UCSD took the No. 1–4 
victories on the singles side. No. 1 Tseng defeated Mayer in two hard-fought sets, 7–5, 6–4. At No. 2, Zhang trumped Eagles graduate student Joseph Bray (6–
1, 5–7, 6–2). The No. 3 singles, 
Isaia, earned a win in three sets, topping Katnelson 3–6, 6–2, 6–4. 
Jarlskog handed Reddman a loss 
at the No. 4; he dropped the first 
set 3–6, won a tiebreaker by 5 
points in the second set (7–6), and bageled Reddman in the final set (6–0).
UCSD’s Han was unable to 
defeat Kyle, who handed the Tritons a 6-2, 4–6, 6–2 defeat at the No. 5 singles spot. Ko gave the Tritons their second singles loss at the No. 6, easily winning against UCSD sophomore Marius Ruh and handing the Triton a bagel (6–1, 4–6, 6–0). 
UCSD looks to face off against 
Point Loma Nazarene University on Tuesday, April 10. The match is set to begin at 3 p.m. This week the UC San Diego 
softball team squared off against 
California State University, San 
Bernardino. The No. 21-ranked 
UCSD team split the four-game road series, winning one game and losing one game for each of the two days of 
the series.
Game 1
The Tritons got off to a sluggish 
and disappointing start in the first 
game of the series, dropping their 
first game 0–8. Despite the final 
score, the game seemed to start off evenly. In the first inning, both teams were tied at 0–0; the Tritons had two 
hits, compared to San Bernardino’s 
zero. However, in the second inning, the Coyotes blew past the Tritons, scoring six runs, compared to the Tritons’ zero. UCSD was never able to 
overcome that deficit. San Bernardino 
went on to score two more runs, ending the five-inning game 0–8. San Bernardino’ s pitcher — sophomore 
Amanda Ramirez — had a field day 
against the UCSD batters, who only managed four hits. In the second, third, and fourth innings, she recorded 3 consecutive outs, preventing UCSD 
from getting a single hit or runner on 
base, majorly contributing to UCSD’s lack of scoring.
Game 2
After a frustrating performance in 
the first game, the Tritons bounced back in their second game, winning 13–6. UCSD opened the first inning strong. With two runners on base, 
senior outfielder Kelsi Maday 
homered to left field, earning the Tritons 3 runs. By the bottom of the fourth, the Coyotes were able to even out the score: 4–4. That, however, 
would be the closest San Bernardino 
would ever come to a lead. In the second half of the game, the Tritons were dominant: 9 hits and 9 runs. San 
Bernardino was held to 5 hits and 2 
runs. The Tritons emerged victorious: final score of 13–6.
Game 3
The Tritons opened up the second 
day of the series, building on their last game, winning a close game 6–4. The Coyotes scored the first points of the game, earning 1 run at the 
bottom of the third. UCSD, however, 
responded quickly, scoring 4 runs off 6 hits. While the Tritons were able to hold onto this lead to till the end of the game, it was not uncontested. At 
the bottom of the fifth, UCSD was up 
5–1. In their most resilient comeback attempt of the game, the Coyotes shaved the Tritons lead to one point: 
5–4. San Bernardino, however, would 
never overcome the Tritons. Senior second baseman Kendall Baker tacked on one more run, ending the game 6–4.
Game 4
In the final game of the series, 
the Tritons lost a close contest, 4–7. The Tritons came out slower than 
the Coyotes. In the first inning, 
UCSD was unable to score, which allowed San Bernardino to take a commanding 4–0 lead. The Tritons 
would eventually score their first run 
at the top of the second, making the score 1–4. UCSD, however, would not see more runs until the final inning of the game. Kept scoreless from the 
third to the sixth inning, the Triton’s 
only chance of winning came down to the seventh inning. The score was 7–1. A score by junior third baseman 
Maddy Lewis, followed by scores by 
sophomore utility Mikaila Reyes and senior center fielder Maday, gave the Tritons hope of a comeback. However, it would all prove too little too late; 
these 3 runs would be the Tritons’ 
last. The game closed, 4–7.
Next week, the UCSD team faces 
off against Stanislaus State at home.
Tritons Down Eagles UCSD Splits Weekend to CSUSB
UCSD won six out of nine matches. The team bounced back after a rough 0-8 loss in the series opener.
BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports Editor
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.eduBYWesley Xiao
Staff writeR
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 9, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESTrack & Field
Softball
W Tennis
M Tennis 
Softball4/13
4/134/134/134/139:30 AM
1 PM2 PM
2:30 PM
3 PMTriton InvitationalStanislaus StateAzusa PacificAzusa PacificStanislaus State
UC San Diego vs. Long Beach 
State
The UC San Diego men’s 
volleyball team took on California 
State University, Long Beach in back-to-back matches this weekend, 
one on the road and one at home. 
While still looking for their first 
Big West Conference victory, the 
Tritons dropped six straight sets to 
the currently number one-ranked 
team in the nation.
Game 1 — Friday, April 6
With set scores of 22–25, 19–25, 
and 17–25, UCSD lost Friday night’s 
home match 0–3 amidst a crowd of 600.
UCSD held its own against a 
dominating 49ers lineup gaining 
the lead early on in the first set. The 
Tritons remained ahead until the 13th  point when CSULB evened the score and the superior team 
continued to fluctuate. In nine 
tie scores and three lead changes, CSULB buckled down to gain 
advantage moving forward.
The first set was the closest the 
Tritons would come to beating the 
49ers. UCSD accumulated a .308 
team attack percentage which was 
no problem for CSULB, which would 
go on to average .526. Although 
tallying 14 kills compared to just 11 
from the opponent, six UCSD errors 
contributed to the 3-point deficit.
Redshirt junior opposite Luke 
McDonald recorded a team high of 10 kills on the night in place of senior 
opposite hitter Tanner Sy ftestad 
(out with illness), five of which 
came in the first set. McDonald also 
contributed 2 assists, 2 digs, and 2 
block assists to calculate a total of 11 
points.
Another back-and-forth second 
set concluded in favor of CSULB. After executing on point 15, the 
49ers went on a roll scoring the 
next 5 points and maintained until capitalizing on set point.
Freshman outside hitter Wyatt 
Harrison added 7 kills, 3 digs, and 1 block assist for 7.5 points — the second highest scorer for UCSD. 
Junior outside hitter Nathan 
Thalken matched Harrison’s 7 kills 
with 4 assists and 7 digs. In addition, 
senior setter Milosh Stojcic finished 
with 20 assists and 4 digs.
In CSULB’s worst set 
performance of the night, in regards to a .091 attack percentage, the Tritons failed to find ways to take 
advantage. Overall, the 49ers led in 
team blocks 9 to 5, digs 27 to 26, and blocks 18 to 9 to help extend their 
undefeated conference record, 7–0. 
Game 2 — Saturday, April 7
The following day, UCSD traveled 
a few hours up the coast to face 
CSULBin 49er territory at Walter Pyramid arena. Unfortunately, the Tritons fell another three sets in a row with scores of 21–25, 18–25, and 13–25.
The Tritons held a lead as large 
as 8–4 in the first set, forcing 
an immediate CSULB timeout after a killer McDonald service 
ace. McDonald achieved another 
successful first set gathering 3 of 
his 5 kills. Moments later, Thalken’s 
service ace improved the Triton lead 
to 15–10. However, a strong 49er 
roster bounced back, quickly tying 
the score at 18 and only thriving 
from there.  
Three diff erent Tritons, 
McDonald, Thalken and freshman 
opposite Collin Shannon, tied with 
6 points and 5 kills apiece. Redshirt 
sophomore outside hitter Xander 
Jimenez recorded a team high of 6 
kills on top of 5 digs and 1 block 
assist. Sophomore setter Connor Walbrecht collected 11 assists and 4 digs as well.
CSULB led all sets in attack 
percentage by a decent margin (.462–.238, .542–.233, .348–.071). 
The remaining two sets held favor of 
the enemy as the Tritons were unable 
to find ways around the strong 49er 
offense. The lead slipped away early, 
leaving little to no chance to catch 
up to a solid CSULB squad.
The Tritons will play California 
State University, Northridge next 
weekend for the last two regular 
season matches of the 2018 
campaign and celebrate Senior Night 
at the same time. Furthermore, all six teams will make the Big West 
Conference Tournament beginning 
Thursday, April 19. As the No. 6 
seed, UCSD will play the No. 3 seed, 
to be determined as of now.M. Volleyball
PHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLER // UCSD GUARDIANUC San 
Diego Drops 
Back-to-
Back Games 
Against Long Beach State
The Tritons will close out their 
regular season next weekend 
against Cal State Northridge.
On Thursday, the 16th-ranked 
UC San Diego women’s tennis team 
hosted 28th-ranked Point Loma, 
extending its win streak to three as 
the Tritons took a convincing 8–1 victory over the Broncos.
In the second matchup of the 
season between the teams, the Tritons had their way once again. When both sides met on Feb 28, UCSD achieved a 6–3 away win over Point Loma. 
With the win, UCSD improves to 
11–9 overall and heading in the right direction a fter hitting a rough patch 
last month where the team dropped 
five matches of a possible six. 
UCSD took care of business in 
singles play as all six Tritons went 
home with a win. 
No. 1 for the Tritons, junior 
Ashley Chao, defeated No. 53 Nikki Newell in straight sets, 7–5 and 6–2. The win now brings the win 
total of the season to 12 for the 21st 
nationally ranked Chao. 
At No. 2, sophomore 55th ranked 
Becky Chou had herself a day as she 
upset No. 17 Carolina Cuevas in straight sets, 6–4 and 6–4. Chou has now extended her win streak to four in singles play. 
Junior Alexandra Weil won at 
the three, 7–6 (9–7), 5–7, 10–7, while senior Jasmine Hosseini won at the four, 6–4, 3–6, 6–3. At the five, sophomore Valeria Corral won 
in straight sets, 6–2 and 6–2. Then 
at the six, junior Chloe Wright took the win with scores of 3–6, 6–0, 6–3. 
In doubles, UCSD took two of 
three as it very nearly swept the entire competition on the day. 
At the top doubles spot, Chao 
and sophomore Becky Chou wasted no time in their doubles match as 
they won 8–2. Meanwhile, junior 
Madison Hale and Weil added to the victories on the day with a score of 8–6. 
Next up for the Tritons, they 
will head to Concordia Irvine, in their only matchup of the season on Monday, April 9.Tritons Extend Win Streak
UC San Diego improves to 8-1 overall.
BY Daniel Hernandez
Senior Staff writeRMadeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
Daniel  Hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduBY Madeline  Lewis
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS 