UC San Diego’s Bookstore 
averages approximately two the fts 
per week and loses about $60,000 
worth of merchandise to the ft 
annually, the UCSD Bookstore 
Loss and Prevention Department informed the UCSD Guardian.
For the 2015-16, 2016-17, and 
much of the 2017-18 academic years, the UC San Diego Police Department recorded 42 Bookstore 
shopli fting o ffenses. There were 
three attempted shopli fts reported, 
as well as reports of one grand the ft 
by fraud in January 2016 and a 
burglary by fraud in January 2017. Records also show a burglary in 
September 2016 and a petty the ft in 
January 2017.
According to UCSD Bookstore 
Loss Prevention Supervisor Thomas 
Bonetati, the Bookstore’s procedure 
in response to a theft varies, depending on whether or not the suspect is a student. 
“If the suspect is a student, a 
report is forwarded to the O ffice of 
Student Conduct and penalties are assessed by them depending on the severity of the the ft, ” Bonetati said. 
“If a customer is not a student we issue a fine recorded with the county. 
If the suspect is not cooperative, the UC San Diego Police are called. ”
The Bookstore Loss Prevention team’s criteria predicts a 95 percent 
certainty that an incident is a the ft. 
However, the error rate is less than 
1 percent.
“Greater than 99 percent of 
incident reports given to the Office of Student Life result in 
the appropriate penalty, ” Bonetati stated, not elaborating on what that penalty is.
As part of the prediction criteria, 
the Bookstore responds to patterns regarding items that are most typically stolen. Bonetati noted that 
textbooks are one of the highest 
targets, and the the ft rate is typically 
higher during the beginning of Fall VOLUME 51, ISSUE 29  MONDA Y , MA Y 29, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Tuberculosis  
Outbreak Reported at 
UCSD
The public was not informed of the 
potential exposure until a week later.
The San Diego County Health 
and Human Services Agency notified 
UCSD on May 15 about a potential 
outbreak of tuberculosis on campus, 
several news outlets reported. The period of exposure, or the time in which people may have been exposed 
to the disease, is anywhere from 
January 25 to May 15, according the the HHSA.
As Jacqueline Carr, Assistant 
Executive Director of Communications 
told the UCSD Guardian, “We have 
been working with the San Diego County Health and Human Services Agency to determine which individuals 
on campus needed to be tested. ”
Free testing will be available 
beginning on May 30 at the Student 
Health Center to students who are known to have been exposed. 
On May 23 the school sent a 
secure message through the electronic health record to all students who were identified as being at risk and in need of 
testing. The faculty and staff who were 
exposed were also notified by the UC San Diego Center for Oc cupational 
and Environmental Medicine.
“We have to follow the direction 
of the San Diego County [HHSA] 
Carr explained. “When a case like this happens, we notify the campus 
departments that need to be involved 
to ensure the individual is able to receive proper care while preventing any further exposure to others on 
campus. ”
Symptoms of tuberculosis aren’t 
usually apparent, though when they 
are they include coughing, unusual weight loss, night sweats and fever. The 
disease is spread by airborne bacteria 
after an infected person coughs or sneezes. Exposure would have to be four continuous hours or eight hours 
of intermittent contact to put someone 
at risk. Tuberculosis is preventable by vaccine and is usually treatable by medicine, but untreated cases have the potential for becoming fatal. 
Carr also told the UCSD Guardian 
there hasn’t  been a case of tuberculosis on campus since 2013. 
“In 2010, we started requiring all 
incoming undergraduate and graduate students to submit tuberculosis screening as part of their admission requirements” Carr said.  “This was to prevent any incoming student 
with active tuberculosis from starting 
school … The admission requirement of screening all incoming students for tuberculosis has had a great impact considering this is our first case in five 
years. ”
CAMPUS
BY Tyler Faurot 
 Editorial Assistant
Approximately $60,000 of Merchandise Stolen from Bookstore Annually
A student at Sixth College’ s Chocolate Festival races against not only time, but a turtle as well. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
UC San Diego has approved 
construction for a Seventh 
College which would expand 
the university to include additional housing and 
lecture halls located by the current Theatre District. 
The project is part of a larger plan to expand the 
residential and parking spaces on campus.
According to former A.S President Lesly 
Figueroa, preparations for the seventh college will be made by a “neighborhood planning group” 
that has been mostly spearheaded by the dean of 
student affairs and the provosts, but the planning is already behind schedule because construction 
has yet to begin. 
The building of the seventh college is expected 
to done in simultaneity with Sixth College’s relocation to the North Torrey Pines Living and 
Learning Community, Figueroa noted. First announced in January 2016, the NTPLLC will 
be constructed in what is currently the parking 
lot between Thurgood Marshall and John Muir Colleges and is expected to house new spaces for 
the humanities departments and parking, as well as 2,000 beds for undergraduate living.  
While the decision to move Sixth College was 
largely made to allow for a stop on the Mid-Coast 
Corridor Lightrail to take its place, the new seventh college is intended to accommodate the recent and 
future increases in undergraduate enrollment.  
“The pressure for UC campuses to accept 
more undergraduate students complicates campus space,” Figueroa stated, adding that it forces 
temporary arrangements and requires the campus 
to keep changing. Such situations lower the quality 
of living for many students “because now you have to put [the extra undergraduates] somewhere else. ”
While the designs for the residential spaces 
in Seventh College have not been finalized yet, Figueroa expects that there will not be triple rooms 
like in years past as there won’t be for the new Sixth 
College. 
“I think it’s unrealistic to have students living 
in triples, ” Figueroa said. “I remember [that] from being [a resident advisor] in the Village. That’s why I pushed for no triples at this new residence area 
that will be Sixth College’s new location. The design By Amalia Huerta Cornejo    Staff WriterUCSD 
Seventh College to Be Built Near Theatre DistrictPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
HUMANITIES 
CAREER FAIR
On May 9, UC San Diego 
hosted its first Arts and 
Humanities Career Fair, a 
promising step in the right 
direction in focusing some 
energy on non-science 
major fields and bolstering 
its arts and humanities 
majors.
UCSD  CONFESSIONS
HOUSING  INSECURITYStudent  secrets open  to  all
Folowing  new  Modelsfeatures,  Page   7
Opinion, Page 4
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Every time conversation 
of creating the minor 
comes up, the University 
has deferred every 
proposal made by 
students to the point of 
a waiting game. As this 
cycle continues, the 
spark to initiate the minor 
wavers and eventually, 
the movement dies.” Features,   PAGE  6
TUESDAY   
H 67 L 60
THURSDAY
H 66 L 59
ART COURTESY OF MICHI SORA
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 61
FRIDAY
H 67 L 59
LYFT DRIVERS..............5
DEADPOOL...................8
ENVIRONMENTAL.........9
GRRRLS........................9
EXTROVERT................10UCSD
Marco Landon Siu
Asian-American Minor
 PAGE 4The Loss Prevention Department at the Bookstore has speci fic criteria they use for predicting shopli fting.
BY Madeline Leon
Staff Writer 
See BOOKSTORE,  page 3See SEVENTH COLLEGE,  page 3
Tyler Faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.eduQuarter. New merchandise is also 
more frequently the subject of the fts.
“Hydro flasks were a big target of 
theft when we were first displaying 
them in the store, which we adjusted by moving the product and concentrating more of our camera 
resources on where the items were 
displayed, ” Bonetati said. “We also alert all of our sta ff to high-target 
items and try to ensure that we assist customers [who] are in those areas. ” 
“The Bookstore Loss Prevention 
Team is highly trained and our camera system is very e ffective, ” 
Bonetati expressed. “It is a di fficult 
experience for everyone to have to apprehend a student who is making a mistake by shoplift ing. ”
Bonetati also a ffirmed that 
the Bookstore’s average the ft rate 
is signi ficantly lower than the 
average rate for other retailers and campus stores, with the retail methodology for tracking shrinkage 
of merchandise being less than 0.25 percent. 
“Retail shrinkage amounts 
generally average about 1.2 percent, ” 
Bonetati said. 
“Our low overall shrinkage ratio is 
evidence of a lower attempted the ft or 
unresolved the ft than most retailers, ” 
Bonetati added. “We intervene on attempted the fts or have a the ft that 
was not recoverable, meaning the 
suspect was not apprehended by 
the Bookstore or by UC San Diego Police, an additional three times per week. Reports for suspects who were 
not apprehended are sent to UC San 
Diego Police for future reference and there are cases where students have been apprehended a fter the incident. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
THINGS TO CONSIDER By Sage Schubert Christian and Kyle Somers
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Communal office couches are meant for sleeping, not cleaning.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, Darren Lam, Rani 
Snankar
follow  us  on
        twitter@ UCSD
        GUARDIANFigueroa: Students Need to Be Involved in Planning
▶ SEVENTH COLLEGE, from page 1
is supposed to be more community-
oriented … which seems like it’s 
going to be what [will lead] the new 
communities that will come up, for instance seventh college. ”
According to Figueroa, the 
university has told her that they have the capacity for the new 
college, but they still need to release 
the administration’s assessment.
“We need to see real numbers, ” 
she stated. 
The naming process for the 
seventh college is ongoing, but 
Figueroa does not expect “Seventh 
College” to be its official name considering that Sixth College 
technically has yet to be named as 
well.
Figueroa additionally 
emphasized the importance of student involvement in the planning process.
The presidents of Eleanor Roosevelt College and John Muir College Councils, as well as a 
representative from Roger Revelle 
College Council were appointed by Figueroa to sit on the seventh 
college’s planning committee, but 
Figueroa still believes that the planners should increase community 
engagement from students.
“You want to get students more 
involved,” Figueroa said. “ As a planner you need to make it more 
visible; in all honesty, students might not care because planning 
isn’t sexy work, but they’ll care as 
they see it come up. You need to give them an opportunity to have 
an opinion. ”
Amalia Huerta Cornejo   ahuertac@ucsd.eduMadeline Leon  m7leon@ucsd.eduNew Merchandise Is More Frequently T argeted for Theft
▶ BOOKSTORE, from page 1NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
All Inclusive! Water, Gas & Trash …..Why Pay Extra!
1 & 2 Bedroom
apartments available! 
Newly Renovated
Interiors!AMENITIES:
• 3 Spacious floorplans • New Cyber Cafe • Large walk-in closets • Dual master floorplans
• Vaulted ceilings in all top-floor homes • Fully equipped kitchens
• Woodburning fireplaces • Lap pool & Spa • Reserved parking
• Fitness center - Lifecycles, Universal equipment, Elliptical trainers & Aerobic equpmentThere’s no need to call it a day when 
you come home to La Jolla 
International Gardens. A resort-style fitness haven has been designed to 
meet your quest for fun and activity.Work out in our complete gym with Hoist ® 
and aerobic equipment. Swim in our 
heated lap pool, relax in a bubbly jacuzzi or 
enjoy a complimentary beverage while 
searching the web in our cyber cafe.
(858) 587-9997
3417 Lebon Drive , San Diego, CA 92122 www.lajollainternationalgardens.com
Live in the best location in UTC! Enjoy underground 
parking, luscious courtyards, and a newly remodeled 
fitness center with the latest cardio and weight training equipment.
Expect to be impressed by our resort style pool and spa 
and modern clubhouse. We offer spacious floor plans surrounded in a beautifully landscaped setting.Newly Renovated 1 & 2 bedroom apartments available
Amenities Include:Why pay for water, trash, gas, & parking... We included!
• All master bedrooms with spacious walk-in closets
• Private balcony or patio • Dramatic cathedral ceilings in all top floor homes
• Fully equipped kitchen with microwave & refrigerator 
• Reserved and convenient underground parking 
• Ample storage • Cyber Cafe • Fitness Center • Heated Lap Pool and Spa 
3845 Nobel Drive, San Diego, CA 92122
www.LaScalaApartments.com (858 ) 457- 44444 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Many students might not feel anxious 
when thinking about winter, spring, or 
summer break. However, while they arrange 
their travel plans, or activities to do with 
their families, thousands of students are desperately trying to figure out where to live during those upcoming weeks or months. 
There is a prevalent problem across the UC 
system that is somewhat overshadowed by other issues such as food insecurity. While the UC system has taken major strides for tackling food insecurity, for example, by 
instituting the UC Global Food Initiative, 
little has been done about housing insecurity, which is not mutually exclusive with food insecurity most of the time. 
The Basic Needs report from UC San 
Diego describes housing insecurity in terms of “unaffordable housing costs, poor housing quality, overcrowding, [couchsurfing] and homelessness.”  According to a study by 
Temple University, about 36 percent of 
university students across 66 institutions in the United States, were facing housing insecurity in the last year and 9 percent 
of university students were homeless in the last year. This study also shows that 
these insecurities disproportionately affect marginalized students, even though they 
exhibit the same amount of academic effort 
as other students. Housing insecurity takes 
many forms, and unfortunately, there has 
been no network set up or crisis management 
center at UCSD to help these students who 
are managing their affairs on their own. 
Housing insecurity takes many forms and 
affects everyone differently, which in turn 
makes it difficult to find an all encompassing solution to this problem. Financial aid 
challenges such as timing of financial aid disbursements can lead to gaps within 
student’s finances, which can prevent them 
from securing a housing contract and cause a momentary destabilization in their life. In addition, for those living off campus in La 
Jolla, the cost of living is extremely high 
compared to other locations in San Diego. However, La Jolla provides an opportune location close to the school for those who lack any means of transportation to live 
farther away. Therefore, many students need 
to bear the cost burden — one they might not be able to afford. In addition, housing insecurity can also arise among international 
students who face economic challenges 
to return home when international fares are extremely expensive. Finally, housing insecurity can translate to students who do not have a stable home or who are homeless 
and rely on school housing to pursue their 
studies.Their options are very limited when university holidays and breaks come around 
OPINIONCHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
CONTACT THE EDITOR
The desperate parking situation on campus 
and cheapness of Lyft rides prompt us, students, 
staff, and faculty of UC San Diego, to use Lyft rather often. After each ride we are offered to 
rate our trip. However, not many of us actually 
know what our rating means for our drivers. 
Since drivers’ accounts can be deactivated 
based on their rating, a driver’s employment 
is directly dependent on how many stars we 
give them after the ride. Loose and unfair, this system accounts for a high level of job 
insecurity among Lyft drivers.  
According to Lyft’s official explanation, 
“Anything more than 4.8 is awesome. If your 
rating drops below 4.8, you may want to 
consider ways to improve it. Consistently low 
ratings can put you at risk of deactivation.” In 
practice, this means that if a driver with a rating 
below 4.7 is at a high risk of deactivation and will receive a warning email. From a company’s 
viewpoint, such policies provide the necessary 
incentives: drivers have a consistent pressure 
to improve performance, be nice to customers, 
and abide by the rules so that they receive a 
high rating. The resulting pleasant experience 
for most customers allows the company to 
take over a larger share of the market and, 
thus, increase their revenue. However, the side 
effect of such system is high job insecurity and 
a lack of fairness. 
Indeed, many drivers are complaining 
about constant concerns that the rating system is random. First, they complain that with 4.6 
being a poor rating, a four-star rating in Lyft’s 
paradigm is “bad”, while in the majority of other services, it is consider “good”. This 
confuses the customers who believe that they 
are giving their good but not exceptional driver 
a fair rating when in fact, they might strip him 
or her of a job. This could be fixed by either 
switching to dual thumbs-up-thumbs-down 
system or by laxening the standard, bringing it to Uber’s low four-stars level. Furthermore, 
since a Lyft rider is offered to rate a “trip” 
not a “driver”, the rider might rate the whole 
experience including faults of the app rather 
than rating just the driver himself. The simple 
explicit disclaimer that this is the driver’s 
rating or an addition of a separate overall experience rating would solve the problem. 
Finally, many riders give unfair ratings, and 
now there is no way for a driver to waive such rating. Considering that ratings determine the 
employment of a driver, driver should be able 
to waive an unfair rating by submitting it to the internal review. 
Apart from improving fairness, Lyft should 
also address the larger issue of job insecurity. 
Waking up one day and discovering that you no 
longer have an income is dreadful, and in other 
industries, labor movements pushed a number 
of laws and acts to protect workers by securing their jobs. In the United States, a corps of 
labor laws exist that regulate most companies’ 
activities. Lyft is, however, exempt from those 
laws, since legally, Lyft is a platform, and both 
drivers and riders are users of a platform rather 
than employees and clients. Labor movements 
in the U.K, has already raised the concerns 
about how similarly structured Uber treats 
drivers unfairly by denying them basic workers’ rights and banned the company from London. 
While it might not be advisable to subject Lyft 
to the fullest extent of labor laws, it is clear that 
drivers working for Lyft should have additional 
protections such as, most prominently, a grace 
period, which would allow them to find a new 
job while still retaining their income.  
All in all, Lyft’s rating system, while 
achieving company’s goal, does not treat fairly 
the drivers. Therefore, since Lyft is making 
profit off their drivers’ work, it should now take steps necessary to ensure those driver’s 
fair treatment and to secure their basic rights. “Housing insecurity 
takes many forms 
and affects everyone 
differently, which 
in turn makes it 
difficult to find an all 
encompassing solution 
to this problem. ”
SeeHOUSING , page 5
“Since drivers’  
accounts can be 
deactivated based on 
their rating, a driver’ s 
employment is directly 
dependent on how many 
stars we give them after 
the ride.”By Revekka Gershovich // Editorial AssistantLyft’s Rating System Threatens Its Drivers’ 
Job SecurityModeling Housing Insecurity
By: Clarisse Vazquez // Senior Sta ff WriterThe Coalition for Critical Asian-
American Studies was officially 
established in 2011 to form a group of 
students to address lack of an Asian-
American minor. However, the inner working of it started in 1987 when 
the Asian Pacific Islander Student 
Alliance organization formed an 
Asian American Studies Committee 
for the sole purpose of creating the minor. For over thirty years, new 
waves of students have come in and 
out of the University demanding the 
bare minimum: an Asian-American 
minor. UC San Diego’s refusal to incorporate a minor to better serve the 
growing Asian-American community 
is part of a larger dismissive structure 
working against us.
Every time conversation of 
creating the minor comes up, the 
University has deferred every 
proposal made by students to the 
point of a waiting game. As this 
cycle continues, the spark to initiate the minor wavers and eventually, 
the movement dies. One of the main 
arguments the university continues 
to put into question is if Asians are 
the largest demographic on campus, then why do they need any more 
services? Well, that is precisely the 
point. If Asians and Asian-Americans 
make up over half of the population 
at UCSD, then why do we not have studies dedicated to the experiences 
and struggles of the Asian-American 
community?
This past Friday, CCAAS held a 
mixer to bring faculty, students, and the community together to engage 
in dialogue. The following people 
were asked the same question: Why 
did you decide to be involved in 
CCAAS?
UCSD alumnus and SPACES 
advisor Joseph Allen Ruanto-Ramirez said, “I was one of the advisors of 
it when originally conceptualized 
and wanted to make sure that Asian American Studies is offered to 
both empower & educate the Asian 
American population on campus.” 
UCSD student and lead organizer 
of this year’s mixer Lin Anh Cook tells me that she is involved in 
CCAAS because she “hopes that one 
day, UCSD students can critically 
examine and learn the vocabulary 
and concepts needed to navigate, grow, heal, empower, and challenge 
everything they thought they knew or 
would know about this world and the 
way it works.” 
Lastly, UCSD alumni and a core 
founder of CCAAS Irving Ling 
remembers his time to “recognize 
that despite the perception that 
API students at UCSD were 
“overrepresented,” they were in many ways underserved by the institution 
over the past decades.”
Asian-Americans just never 
receive the spotlight. Conversely, 
when we are represented, it is through stereotypes and faulty accents. Apu 
from “The Simpsons” is a prime 
example.
This is, however, only the 
beginning of demands from CCAAS. Asian-Americans are done being 
silenced. The next surge of Asian-
American movers and shakers 
are among us. They are not Yuri 
Kochiyama or Larry Itliong; they are the Asian-American students sitting 
right next to you in your classes. 
They are ready for the spotlight.UC San Deigo 
Must Listen to 
Students Calling 
for Asian-American 
Studies Minor
By: Marco Landon Siu // Contributing Writer
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
where they must face going back to an unstable situation 
or couchsurfing.
UCSD somewhat addresses this problem with 
certain grants and loans, including the Emergency Loan Program which allows students to borrow up to $1500. These loans helps immediate needs but do little to address chronic problems such as housing. This program 
addresses those students who rely on financial aid to 
secure their housing contract, but doesn’t help those students who are homeless and need a stable home. Other than this loan program and other grants, UCSD has not really proposed any lasting solutions but does plan on 
providing students with emergency housing relief. This 
could be executed with setting aside on-campus housing vacancies for students in need of emergency housing. However, with the increasing inflow of students every 
year, the probability that vacancies with on-campus 
housing is low. Evidence of this is already apparent with undergraduate housing contracts being limited to one year instead of two, given the massive overflow.
A student at UC Berkeley recently took it upon herself to solve her own disprivilege of being homeless while being a full-time student, and created the Homeless Student Union at Berkeley. This union has 
an emergency network that connects students who lose 
their houses to Berkeley residents who can immediately provide them them with a place to stay. The union is able to streamline services in cooperation with the Basic 
Needs Coalition to those underserved communities on 
campus. This facilitates and expedites the process of providing services and aid to those in need, rather than going through a difficult bureaucratic process that the university must pursue to help those students. 
UCSD should follow this model and expand the 
programs of the Basic Needs Coalition, which is an organization on campus that is dedicated to providing the basic necessities for college student such as nutritious 
food, stable housing, and financial wellness resources. 
In addition, UCSD should follow the strides of the 
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
UC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER  
TRANSIT PASS
Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Card and get unlimited rides on MTS 
and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express  routes excluded.) Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  or continuing students from Spring 2018 to Fall 2018 required.
summerpass.ucsd.edu
Exclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
Online Sales Only: 
June 18 – August 31$36WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
▶ HOUSING , from page 4
Clarisse V azquez   c7vazque@ucsd.edu  6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
UCSD is largely regarded as a research-based, science-
focused university. Despite the fact that UCSD is home 
to many successful and talented arts and humanities 
students and professors, their work is less often recognized. The science, mathematics, technology, engineering, and social science departments 
all enjoy more attention, acclaim, and generally more resources than do 
the arts and humanities departments. This is reflected in the awareness 
the science and technology career fairs get each time they are held, as 
there have been few opportunities for arts and humanities majors to 
meet with potential employers until now.
This year, UCSD hosted its first Arts and Humanities Career Fair. Held 
at the Price Center, the fair accommodated a wide range of companies and businesses — their posters, flyers, and tables all advertising their 
lines of work. The tables were arranged in semi-circle around the 
perimeter of the room, with 
students wandering from table 
to table and conversing with 
the employers. Some of them 
dressed in business casual, others in formal suits, others 
in their everyday outfits they 
wear to class. Instead of the 
expected hustle and bustle of 
a career fair, the environment was the opposite — it was 
relatively quiet.
Brian Cheng, a freshman 
data science major from Sixth 
College, is not an arts and 
humanities major, but decided 
to check out the booths all the same. He pointed out that, despite 
the fair’s title, not all of the businesses in attendance were strictly 
humanities-based.
“I’m just curious what humanities career fairs look like. But not all 
of these booths are from the humanities field, ” Cheng said, indicating to a substantial line at Sony Electronics, much longer than any other 
booth’s at the fair. “The Sony booth I just went to is actually hiring for 
engineering jobs. I find it funny that they’re at a humanities career fair. ”
Two spokespersons from one of the businesses there, Marriott 
International, maintain that the Marriott is a great place for students to 
start off, whether they’re interested in management, human resources, 
and much else. They have plenty of UCSD students working at their properties and have gained plenty of feedback from attending career fairs.
“Marriott itself is very focused on career growth and personal 
growth, so once you get your foot in the door, there’s no stopping you. 
You can move around to different departments and properties, and 
that’s the fun part about it, ” Kim, , one of the Marriott employees, said. 
“We decided to come here today to inform students of that, and to let 
them know that even if there isn’t a specific position here that may 
interest you, there’s opportunity for growth. ”
The beauty of the humanities majors, as Kim and her fellow 
employee Davina asserted, is that its versatility means that a student who majors in one field can apply their skills to a separate department 
and take the time to find what they love to do.
“The misconception is that you have to be a hospitality major to be 
in hospitality. Really, we are open 
to whatever you major in, ” Kim 
said. “For example, I graduated as 
a psychology major. I don’t have 
the hospitality degree, but I’m in the front office, moving toward 
human resources. There’s a way 
for you to use what you’ve learned 
and the skillsets you’ve acquired. ”
Kim and Davina had talked 
to students with a plethora of interests at the fair, all of whom 
they could see working in 
hospitality.
“We had someone who was 
interested in the audiovisual side, 
another interested in sales photography, another in human resources, ” Kim said. “We’re getting a good amount of people here. ”
Despite what the spokespeople from Marriott said, most of the 
businesses that attended the fair, such as 1789 Consultants, Marriott International, and the New Children’s Museum, were not specifically 
catered to humanities majors. The most popular one, Sony Electronics, 
was not humanities-based at all. Humanities majors include fields such 
as literature, music, philosophy, theatre, dance, and visual arts, and most 
of the companies in attendance were not in fact relevant to those majors. 
Apart from the New Children’s Museum, which is likely applicable to  
On May 9, UC 
San Diego hosted its first Arts and 
Humanities Career Fair, a promising step in the right direction in focusing some energy on non-science major fi elds and 
bolstering its arts and humanities majors.
By Charlotte Armstrong // Sta ff 
Writer
ILLUSTRATION BY OF MICHI SORAIt ’s Not Just for 
STEM   Majors :  
UCSD's  First Arts 
and Humanities 
Career Fair
SeeHUMANITIES , page 7
“Though this was the first 
arts and humanities career 
fair, and thus the event must 
be allowed the time to develop, 
the opportunities given to 
humanities majors there pales 
in comparison to those which 
STEM majors are provided. ”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 ▶ HUMANITIES , from page 6
visual arts majors, not many of the businesses seemed to be 
specialized for any particular humanities field.
The lack of publishing businesses, performing arts 
companies, and journalism programs indicated that UCSD 
has a long way to go in giving its humanities majors the same 
attention it gives to its engineering majors. The humanities 
majors should not be thought of as the leftovers, the second 
fiddle to every STEM company. Though this was the first arts 
and humanities career fair, and thus the event must be allowed 
the time to develop, the opportunities given to humanities 
majors there pales in comparison to those which STEM majors 
are provided. For UCSD to put all of its eggs in one basket, so 
to speak, would be a mistake. Though the STEM fields are ever-growing and exceptionally 
popular at the present time, many argue that the humanities majors offer invaluable persuasive and critical thinking skills, 
and produce the best writers, communicators, and speakers. 
The fact that UCSD is making an effort to further the 
education and opportunities of its arts and humanities majors 
by hosting events such as this first career fair is encouraging, 
but is hopefully not the end of an attempt to make humanities 
majors feel valued, challenged, and motivated. Ideally, the 
arts and humanities career fairs will evolve, grow, and host 
a greater amount of companies relevant to specific arts and 
humanities fields.
As this was UCSD’s first ever arts and humanities career fair, it’s evident that the influence of science and technology fields is still dominant. Nonetheless, the arts and humanities 
career fair symbolizes the potential that UCSD has to open 
up doors for non-STEM majors and to give them chances at 
the opportunities they need to crusade their way through the 
world after college. It has the opportunity to do a lot more for 
its arts and humanities majors. Now it’s up to UCSD to follow 
through.
Charlotte Armstrong   c1armstr@ucsd.edu
Secrets of the UCSD 
Confessions Page
Imagine that, in the middle of campus 
at midday, you hold up a megaphone and scream out your deepest, darkest 
secrets for all to hear without repercussion. The name of your crush, something you hate about your roommate, your not-so-politically-correct opinions – whatever you confess, everybody hears it, but no grief is given. Y our feelings are known, but your reputation is safe.
This is the concept behind the UCSD 
Confessions page on Facebook. It serves as an online space for students to put their innermost thoughts on blast without the threat of backlash or ridicule. Using a Google form, anyone can submit an anonymous confession. If the page’s moderators deem the submission appropriate, they’ll post it to the page for its members to view, like, and comment on.
Compared to other college confession 
pages on Facebook, the UCSD Confessions page community is particularly large and engaged. UC Berkeley and UCLA ’s confessions pages, for example, haven’t posted for about two years and only have a fraction of the UC San Diego page’s 15,000 likes. 
While its purpose has remained the 
same, UCSD Confessions has experienced several transitions in its organization. The original UCSD Confessions page published the bulk of its content before Yik Y ak, a social media app designed for sharing anonymous messages, rose to popularity, steering the confessions away from Facebook. In 2015, two students created UCSD Confessions 2.0 after noticing that the original page had been inactive. This was the main source for confessions up until early May when Facebook deleted its content for violating community guidelines. 
“UCSD Confessions 2.0 banned someone 
who was being extremely obnoxious on the page … and in retaliation for that, he reported pretty much every post on their page and that got them taken down, ” claimed an anonymous student who formed UCSD Confessions 3.0 after the page’s predecessor was shut down. 
“Then I realized, ‘Hold up! I can capitalize 
on this!’ So I made [UCSD Confessions 3.0] and it gained a lot of followers. ”
To avoid what they called “getting zucced” 
(a play on Mark Zuckerberg’s last name that means being censored by Facebook), the founders of UCSD Confessions 3.0 then created a closed group called UCSD Confessions Addicts, which is now the main outlet for the confessions.
The fact that these transitions arose from 
concerns about content illustrates just how controversial the confessions can be. UCSD Confessions 2.0’s administrators, who would like to remain anonymous and will be referred to with pseudonyms, acknowledged that one of the greatest challenges of moderating the page’s content is monitoring offensive posts.
John, who had been moderating the page 
since its inception, explained, “I try to scroll through and read as many as I can (and I pay extra attention to posts with controversial or political opinions), but there are so many that we can’t observe them all. Arguments in the comments are also hard to keep track of because of the hundreds of notifications we receive. ”
In fact, it is so difficult to keep the 
confessions in line with Facebook’s community guidelines that Richard, the page’s other moderator, was banned from posting and messaging.
“ At a minimum I try not to post anything 
that violates Facebook’s community standards. As a result of my apparently poor efforts, I am currently banned from using Facebook for 24 hours for sharing an offensive post, ” Richard said. 
Though the moderators ensure that 
“overly racist and creepy” confessions do not make it onto the page, they still have to read through these more shocking submissions. Still, they aren’t surprised at how hateful some students’ opinions can be.
“I spent a lot of time on Yik Y ak, and a 
lot of time in the UCSD Political Discussion group. There are a lot of ‘trolls, ’ for lack of a better term, at this school, ” stated John.
“ Anonymity emboldens them and, as a 
result, they post all sorts of inflammatory content. I don’t know if it’s a small minority of students that submits a lot of these confessions, but I strongly suspect it. ”
Richard agreed that the safety of being 
anonymous encourages people to make bolder confessions, adding, “People are only going to use the page to say things that they wouldn’t say without anonymity. ”
The paradox of any online confessions 
outlet is that they enable people to anonymously state whatever they’ d like, yet moderators only allow some of these confessions to be posted. Is the moderator’s job to protect the confessors’ right to free speech, or to protect their viewers from seeing offensive content?
This debate led to the demise of UCSD 
Confessions 2.0 and the formation of the UCSD Confessions Addicts closed group. Privatizing the confessions page allows for increased freedom of expression and minimizes the chances of being accused of violating Facebook’s community guidelines.
Regardless of how audiences react, 
making a public confession can be a therapeutic experience. John noted that part of the confessions page’s importance stems from the role it plays in supporting mental wellness.
“People often have things they can’t share 
with anyone they know but they still need an outlet. It’s anonymous, but the fact that everyone is in the same school facing the same issues makes it feel more personal.
“University is a time when everyone is 
under a lot of pressure and screaming into an anonymous void is faster than a visit to CAPS. Although CAPS is still obviously much more helpful, I think the page also has a role in helping. ”
The page does create a sense of community 
and a non-judgmental atmosphere, in spite of the occasional troll or argument in the comments. Richard was pleased to see some wholesome interactions between confessors and commenters.
“The fact that most of these confessions are looking for help gives me hope, as well as our lovely community members always offering support, ” he observed.
Whether the page is offensive or 
encouraging to you depends on how and why you use it. At the very least, the confessions are uniquely interesting and something we can share in as a community. Where else could you open up about that 
cute stranger you saw on campus, or admit your most unpopular opinions without any repercussions?
If you’re looking for juicy secrets from your fellow students, you’ll fi nd them on the UCSD 
Confessions Facebook page. Th e UCSD Guardian 
chatted with the page’s moderators about its o ften 
controversial subject matter.
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong // Senior Sta ff Writer
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@
ILLUSTRATION BY OF DAVID JUAREZA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Despite a sometimes sluggish plot, the fast-paced action and multitude of sharp, witty jokes makes “Deadpool 2” a worthy sequel.
“Deadpool” owes much of its 
original success to the element of surprise. When the first 
movie blasted into theaters in 2016, audiences didn’t expect its raunchy, crass humor and over-the-top violence, which were incredibly uncharacteristic of a Marvel film. Now without 
surprise on their side, creators promised 
Deadpool 2 would be bigger and bolder than its predecessor, and they succeeded. 
The movie begins with a recap of Wade 
Wilson’s (Ryan Reynolds) whereabouts, as 
the events of the previous film — similar 
to the original — quickly takes a dark turn that then provides the motivation for the rest of the movie. Although there is nothing 
remarkable or unique about the plot itself 
compared to the plethora of other superhero movies that have been released over the past two years, Deadpool’s strength lies in its ability to comprehend its own plot’s defects 
and empathize with the audience. Even the opening credits of the film shatter the fourth 
wall and make you feel like the characters in the film have probably watched their movie 
themselves.
After the villain Cable (Josh Brolin) is 
introduced, Deadpool realizes he can’t defeat 
him alone and proceeds to create a team of 
superheroes, the X-Force, to take him down. 
Deadpool spends most of the first half of the movie building this team, only to have it disbanded moments later. Although there’s a lot of gore, humor, and pop culture references 
in the first half of the film, there is little plot 
advancement. Surprisingly, Deadpool doesn’t pick up on this, but audiences will likely spend the first half of the film waiting for a climax 
that never happens.
The second half of the film takes another 
turn, and this is where it really gets going. 
References to other Marvel films and pop culture are made every few seconds, and 
it’s easy to miss them if you’re not aware of the convoluted history of the X-Men 
franchise. This is a movie made for the fans, and while there are references for people who 
aren’t familiar with the X-Men or Avengers 
franchises, much of the movie’s charm and wit will likely go over their heads. Not to worry — there are plenty of brutal fights and car chases 
to keep everyone else entertained.
Directed by David Leitch, a stuntman 
turned director (John Wick and Atomic 
Blonde), the action scenes in “Deadpool 2” are more complex and better choreographed 
than the original, and the cinematography 
keeps up with the pace. Are they particularly praiseworthy? No. But they definitely put the fight scenes in “Deadpool“ to shame, which is 
really all a sequel needs to do.
As usual, Ryan Reynolds portrays Wade 
Wilson effortlessly, and performances from 
the supporting cast, lead by Zazie Beetz (Domino) and newcomer Julian Dennison 
(Russell Collins) are stellar as well. Beetz’s calm, collected demeanor provides a nice 
reprieve from the insanity of the rest of the film, and 15 year-old Dennison portrays the 
pain, anger, and innocence of his character as 
well as any of his more experienced castmates.
That’s basically the theme for this movie: 
there’s nothing particularly memorable about 
it, but this film is certainly bolder, more 
violent, and funnier than the its predecessor. Despite the slow plot pace in the beginning of the film and the plot-holes, which even Deadpool acknowledges is “lazy writing,” 
“Deadpool 2” is the rare sequel that surpasses 
the original.
 
—  Promita Nandy
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Deadpool  2
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   David Leitch 
Starring  Ryan Reynolds, Josh Brolin, Zazie Beetz, Julian Dennison, T.J. Miller
Release Date  May 18, 2018
Rated  RCB+
MFA playwright Anna Moench returns to the Wagner New Play Festival with a new, terrifying piece on the horrors of motherhood.
As theatregoers trickle into Potiker 
Theatre, they pause to gape at the eerily minimalist stage. Along with toy 
blocks and a suspended, crooked crib, bright pink overwhelms the space, seeping through the cracks and bouncing off the reflective surface into the audience’s hungry eyes. The lights dim, and 
our first five characters take their place.
Act one boasts the agonizing intensity of 
mother-to-mother banter at a daycare. Ariana 
(Janet Fiki) strides across the stage in her pristine, pink blouse, skirt, and heels, purposefully 
mocking Vick’s (Amara Granderson) childish 
overalls and Meg’s (Nicole Javier) plain white dress shirt and black slacks. Clutching her large pink purse, Ariana discreetly criticizes the other 
mothers’ parenting practices, from Vick’s sacrifice 
of her career to Meg’s prioritization of her own. As each mother takes turns leaving the stage to leave the other two to gossip, we gradually become more and more invested in the secrets and personal judgements hiding behind each woman’s facade, snickering along while each woman jabs at the other. The crowd, however, 
remains particularly biased toward Meg, who 
appears as the central character in navigating her own role as both a mother and a lawyer, diving into discussions with the other two mothers 
concerning issues ranging from breastfeeding 
and social media to race. 
Y es, even race. All of the characters, save 
Ty (David Price), the only father present at the daycare, are purposefully women of color. In the 
entire course of their painstakingly cringe-worthy 
arguments, the single moment that unites them involves the easy exchange of the term “beige” in reference to white people. Playwright Anna 
Moench, however, writes the word so that it is 
exclusively used by the mothers, demonstrated specifically through Meg’s uncomfortable explanation to Ty of her perception of his privileged “beige-ness. ” Ty awkwardly attempts to move away from the conversation, which abruptly ends once all three mothers reposition themselves back onto the blazing pink stage. 
Y et, the women do not continue to speak. 
Ty overtakes the space as his own, suddenly addressing both the audience and himself in order to proclaim the apparent colossal size of his 
penis. The crowd erupts in laughter as he moves 
through the stationary women to jump atop the furniture to thrust his waist and validate his white masculinity.
But something horrendous crashes into the 
realm of “Mothers” .
In Act two, the lighting dims, and the plot 
darkens as an unknown external factor isolates the characters from the rest of the world. Ty 
and the nanny Gladys (Mo Rodvanich) emerge 
with principal roles in maintaining the survival of the group, eventually profiting off the explicit brutalization of the female bodies available in a horrifying show of exploitative violence. Quite a few spectators rose to a standing 
ovation at the end of Moench’s play, while the rest still sat absorbing the whirlwind of scenes 
that had occurred before them. Such a response 
coheres to Moench’s brilliance.
Though the majority of the play involves a 
discussion of extremely intricate, heavy topics, 
“Mothers” succeeds in carefully articulating the 
backdrops of each perspective, whether through Moench’s comprehensive characterization of each individual or director Bea Basso’s intriguing employment of lighting and shadows. “Mothers” 
offers an extensive investigation of the realities 
of motherhood, and, in opening the week after Mother’s Day, effectively exposes the growing pains of mothers of color in an increasingly 
oppressive climate.
 
—  Katrina  Ngo
Contributing Writer
PLAY   REVIEW
Director   Bea Basso
Writer   Anna Moench
Starring  Janet Fiki, Amara Granderson, Nicole Javier, David Price, Mo Rodvanich
Runs   May 9-19
Location   Potiker TheatreMothers
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD THEATRE AND DANCEAA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
http://registrar.ucr.edu/docs/2017-18-UCR_GeneralCatalog.pdf#page=4
 Be one in a million
It’s our di fferences that can make the 
difference in medical breakthroughs. 
For more information:
Call: (858) 265-1711
Email: allofus@ucsd.edu 
&+%*((+"1/ċ+.#
Visit us Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.  
All of Us Clinic  
UC San Diego School of Medicine
9500 Gilman Drive, Building 851
La Jolla, CA 92093
Behind the Medical Education and Telemedicine Building
All of Us and t he All of Us logo are  service marks of the   
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.You will receive
compensation of
$25 after  
you complete
your visitOn May 24, the students of LTWR 113, an 
intercultural writing workshop taught 
by Professor Meliza Bañales, took it 
upon themselves to organize an event on campus 
inspired by the Riot Grrrl movement. The term 
“Riot Grrrl” refers to a feminist punk movement 
that began in the early 1990s. The various feminist punk bands involved in the movement would use their music to call attention to issues concerning women such as rape, racism, domestic abuse, and female sexuality. As explicitly stated in the Riot Grrrl Manifesto, the movement is inherently anti-patriarchy. The students in LTWR 113 wanted to create a space promoting female empowerment and survivorship. 
The event itself was an open mic held at the Raza 
Resource Centro on campus. Several students gave performances in which they shared their original poems, songs, and speeches, exploring a range of topics from the solemn to the silly. In addition 
to the live student performances, there was also 
an arts and crafts center, a snack table, local artists selling their creations, and resource tables with free feminist buttons, condoms, and pens. However, what made this a particularly special occasion was not the free Sprinkles cupcakes or the outstanding student performances, but the welcoming atmosphere the students created for all who attended. The audience was actively 
engaging with the performers by cheering their 
peers on, snapping their fingers and clapping, as well as offering supportive comments. The room’s environment was conducive to creativity and authenticity. The students behind this event promote self-expression, respect, and support for not just women, but for all people. Though the event aims to center women by putting the spotlight on female-related issues, there were 
plenty of male-identifying students showing their 
support for their female-identifying peers.
Events of this particular nature are something 
that UC San Diego lacks, but they are vital for fostering and sustaining student culture 
on campus. UC San Diego is not a place that 
encourages its artistic students to pursue non-STEM related interests and, moreover, does not 
provide more than a handful of places where 
students can freely express themselves, and so 
it is ultimately up to the students themselves to take initiative and plan events like the LTWR 113 class did. 
In accordance with Riot Grrrl culture, the 
arts and crafts area featured make-your-own declarations, materials for zine-making, colored paper, markers, and glitter glue galore. A defining part of Riot Grrrl culture is engaging in a do-it-yourself mentality which can take form in various ways from fashioning merchandise to spreading Riot Grrrl literature through zines, posters, songwriting, and any other possible way. The Riot Grrrl movement is all about centering women, and that is exactly what this event did. With 
the exception of a handful of supportive male-
identifying individuals who were important in making the event happen, this event was almost completely organized and supported by female-identifying persons. A lot of effort went into making this event successful, and it is precisely student-run events like this that not only build community within the student body, but also raise awareness about real-world issues that this 
generation has the power to change. Professor 
Meliza Bañales and her LTWR 113 students planned the event with this in mind, knowing that raising awareness in any sense of the word, be it through open mics and craft-making or through more radical means of expression, is creating change and ultimately contributing to the making 
of a better world.
— Lorena Espinoza
Senior Staff WriterInspired by the Riot Grrrl movement, UCSD Literature students 
organized a women-centered event at the Raza Resource Centro Grrrls to the Front — 
a Riot Grrrl event10                                     T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  M AY  2 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
UC San Diego students might begin break 
next month, but the show must go on for the rest 
of this city. Here are a few events and festivals to 
catch during the last few weeks of school and into the beginning of summer!
2018 San Diego County Fair: How Sweet It Is 
(June 1 to July 4, Del Mar Fairgrounds)
With a Candyland theme, carnival rides, 
concerts, and fried anything-on-a-stick, this annual event is worth taking a study break for. 
And if you really can’t put the book down, the fair will stick around a few weeks into the summer season, so make sure to catch it while it’s here!
Here and Now: Converging Histories (June 
1 to 16, 11:00 a.m. to 3:45 p.m., University Art Gallery Mandeville Center)
UCSD might be heavy in  science, 
technology, engineering and math, but the 
Undergraduate Art Show is something worth 
boasting about. Showcasing the works of the Visual Arts department, the gallery centers on the intersection of history and place. Come and 
show some support for the arts and our fellow 
creative Tritons.Bodies in Trouble: MFA Exhibition at MCASD 
(June 1 to 17, 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego, Kettner) 
In the same aesthetic vein, come support the 
UCSD Graduate Visual Arts MFA department at the downtown contemporary art exhibit. And 
free admission for UCSD students? Now there’s 
no excuse not to go.
Art Around Adams (June 2, 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 
p.m., Adams Avenue in Kensington)
Support local businesses and artisans with this 
free sidewalk gallery event in the Normal Heights community. 
New Directions: Undergraduate Dance 
Concert (June 7, 7:30 p.m., Sheila and Hughes Potiker Theatre)
Celebrate yet another art department at UCSD 
with this student-led-and-choreographed exhibit. 
Tickets are $10 for students and registration is 
required. 
FilmOut San Diego LGBT Film Festival (June 
7 to 10, Observatory North Park Theatre)
For the past 20 years, this three-day fest 
features films and panels that highlight the LGBT experience. This cinematic storytelling event includes movies like “Ideal Home, ” “Femme, ” “Mario, ” “To a More Perfect Union: U.S. v. 
Windsor, ” among many other international, short, and independent films. Check out the 
website for ticket pricing and scheduling.
San Diego Greek Festival (June 8 to 10, Friday 
5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., Sunday 11:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., St. 
Spyridon Greek Orthodox Church in Hillcrest)
Culture, cuisine, and community collide at 
this three-day celebration. Good food and good 
company guaranteed.
Summer Family Mural Project (June 8, 5:00 
p.m. to 7:00 p.m., Timken Museum of Art in Balboa Park)
Come get your Bob Ross on and paint some 
happy trees during this Food Truck Friday event. 
Contribute your artistic skills to a community 
mural at the Timken while enjoying the sights and sounds of Balboa Park.
Summer Movies in the Park: Moana Movie 
Screening (June 16, 7:30 to 10:00 p.m., Horton Plaza Park)We could all use a little more Hei Hei in our 
lives. Bring a chair, some friends, and definitely a bag of snacks to enjoy Moana in the great (urban) 
outdoors.
Festival of Y oga (June 24, 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 
p.m., Waterfront Park)
Come practice those downward dogs, tree 
poses, sun salutations, and a personal favorite, 
savasana, all along the harbor. Registration is 
free, but there is an option to donate to OG 
Y oga, a community organization aiming to offer mindfulness and yoga practices to nonprofits that serve with vulnerable populations. 
14th Annual Switchfoot BRO-AM (June 
30, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Moonlight Beach in Encinitas)
It does not get any more SoCal than this 
friends. Kicking off the summer with a free music 
festival and a surf contest along the iconic Pacific 
coastline? Not to mention all booths and events aim to raise money and awareness for San Diegan youth programs. Count us in. 
It was a Monday night. A small group of 
us ended up making a 9 p.m. trip to Kung Fu Tea because of one friend’s spontaneous boba cravings. Typical, I know. As we walked from the parking lot to the entrance, we awkwardly 
avoided the suspicious guys smoking around a 
souped up purple car, whom we affectionately dubbed “the boba gangsters. ” We tried our best to avoid inhaling cigarette fumes and got in line, finally able to peruse the plethora of drink 
options before us.
After choosing the humble strawberry lemon 
green tea, I received my drink only to have a 
sudden realization: I was wasting plastic. It wasn’t 
much, but a straw’s worth of unnecessary plastic 
was being used so that I could sip my tea with added ease. I had forgotten my reusable straws in the apartment, leaving myself with no choice but to succumb to the disposable demon.
While a forgotten straw may not seem like a big deal, the magnitude of my slip-up ricocheted 
into a full-on revelation. Though I considered 
myself passionate about the environment, I wasn’t actually following through with my convictions. And the fact of the matter was that following 
through wasn’t a difficult thing to do at all. I 
decided I needed to change my habits, so I went about changing my mindset first.
After that day, I tried to think about helping 
the environment in whatever context I was in. 
The simple act of remembering to take long-term 
actions enabled me to make more conscientious choices, such as recycling where possible or unplugging devices to reduce electricity use. 
Maintaining these habits eventually built a 
more solid foundation for my identity as an environmentalist, and my motivation grew stronger as a result.
However, the absence of such motivation 
makes taking action all the more difficult. For example, it is possible to perceive something 
such as a reusable water bottle or a period 
cup as a financial burden, which is a common misconception. Compared to buying gallons upon gallons of disposable water bottles, 
investing $20 in a Brita filter can easily save me 
money over time. The cost can even be further reduced by avoiding shipping costs and buying locally! Once a person overcomes this mental block, complacency fades into the background 
and conviction will take its place.
As for potential tips to normalize 
environmentalism, incorporating simple tasks 
into a daily routine can be something truly 
powerful. From turning off the lights before 
leaving to bringing reusable shopping bags for grocery shopping, every little action can amount to something much bigger. By replacing my previously plastic toothbrushes with biodegradable bamboo ones, I’ll be preventing several decades’ worth of toothbrushes from 
entering a landfill. It may not feel as though these 
actions result in anything statistically significant, but it’s surprising how impactful routines can become over time. 
Simply put, I learned that making a difference 
requires consistency, and consistency is the product of habitual effort. The environment isn’t going to be saved just by my thoughts and prayers, after all. So when I do want to indulge in the 
occasional boba, I know that my reusable straws 
will have to make an appearance. Sometimes I’ll forget, but that’s okay. Change can take the form of a $10 set of straws and a heapload of 
determination, but that’s enough for me.
Hashing out my last few weeks of my inaugural 
year of college has given me time to reflect over my 
own growth. Although these reflective moments are scarce, I really fixated on my shift in the way I interact 
and engage with the community around me. Being 
a natural introvert made the transition into college a particularly difficult experience to adjust to. Not being use to a large-scale setting overwhelmed me 
immensely, but the chance to explore my own levels of 
comfort in social settings was something that I could not resist. Branching out and expanding beyond my comfort zone has helped me improve mentally and socially, allowing me to understand my own limits and 
capabilities in terms of socializing.
I was always worried about making friends 
in college because of my tendency to retract my 
personality and awkward understanding of social 
engagement. However, I have begun to live by three 
main philosophies that assist me in managing my anxiety over interaction and placing myself into social situations that are new and enlightening. Of course, this is under my own discretion and not at all a 
universal experience of social anxiety, but I hope some 
of these can be helpful nonetheless.
Live your own TruthThis is a mindset that has worked wonders for 
understanding my place, role, and voice within social settings. I am privileged that I am able to hide my anxiety through intense mental preparation, but this mindset — to have my own “truth” — has made it easier to manage. It is okay to have other versions of “you” when interacting with others; so long as you are genuine to yourself in your interactions, you can 
step out and explore new settings. Talk loud, expand 
yourself, mediate between your comfort levels. While I personally will not be breaking out into random dance at an event, faking confidence by leading a 
group discussion, or putting forth that application you 
are nervous over is validating. Confidence comes in different variations, and as long as you step out and are confident in your own place, you can extend your interactions to others that are enamored by them.
Step in.Branch yourself out into networks that are 
unfamiliar. When I first came onto campus, the amount of opportunities, clubs, and frankly, people, 
overwhelmed me. Despite these fears, I knew it was 
essential to at least experiment with my comfort and put myself out into spaces that were foreign to me. I took it slow — attend one program a day in the opening weeks and try to familiarize yourself with the resources 
around you. This is what I did when immersing myself 
into the family of the LGBTQ Resource Center. The more I engaged, stepped in and put forth my voice, the more I felt connected to a group of individuals 
that I now consider some of my closest friends. Not 
everyone is comfortable in new settings, I totally get that. It is up to you to determine what is your comfort area of engagement and how to navigate that, but it is still important to find areas where you are able to place yourself into community.
Engage and recharge.
Lastly, we are not all without our limits. It is 
important to recognize your social output and how 
much needs to be recharged once that has been expended. Weekends are important to me because 
they gives me an opportunity to recharge my stamina 
for the upcoming week of events, responsibilities, and meetings. Without an understanding personal limits, burn out comes quickly, and that is something difficult to go through in the social sense. My best advice is 
to be active and vocal in communication with your 
peers; it is okay to tell friends or classmates that you are not socially “in” for the day and need a few hours to reconnect yourself. 
This past year has offered me explorations of 
aspects of myself I never knew existed; equally, it has taught me that I offer more to the world than what I initially registered. Exploring the ways I interact with the world has given me the opportunity to expand on 
my confidence, allowing me to make a close circle of 
friends, start an organization, and even be an RA for the next school year. While it will always provide me with a buzzing rush of uncertainty, extending myself 
out into the world will always be ironically therapeutic 
in the end.June: P eeks and P reviews
Lifestyle Lessons: Helping the Environment is Easier Than We Think
Lifestyle Lessons: P assing as an Extrovertby Lifestyle Staff 
by Jade Hookham // Staff Writer
by Elizabeth Adams // Staff Writer
LIFESTYLE         THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
to.ucsd.edu
be
colorful
with triton outfittersIt’s the best of times, it’s the worst of times.
Summer is within reach, but UC San Diego 
students have a few more victory laps to run before 
crossing the finish line into finals, season two of 
“Queer Eye, ” graduation, and beyond. With a mere 
three weeks of school left, there is a string of six words that can catalyze a whole cacophony of misery, anxiety, existentialism, fear, and anticipation: “What 
are you doing after graduation?” 
In any time of change, trying to figure out 
anything in the season of “after” is a tricky one to 
navigate, especially for those transitioning out of an undergraduate experience at UCSD. For some, there 
is another academic road ahead, for others, there 
might be full-time jobs lined up. There are gap years, returns back home, travels abroad, service trips, part-time jobs, newfound aspirations, moves to new cities, 
or just large questions with very few answers. But, let 
it be known that there is no shame in whatever the next steps ahead may look like. 
Personally, this year has been a series of 
speculation, intertwined with the games “what-if, ” 
and a personal favorite, “maybe I should have studied 
computer science. ” And when many evenings are spent in fetal position either applying for jobs (only to receive a combination of silence and rejection), 
studying for a class that has no pertinence to your 
major, or in utter denial while watching, albeit ashamedly, “Riverdale, ” you come to terms with a few things.
In the midst of all the unknown, a lot of us can, 
and should, recognize the privilege that protects us. I can go home if I need to, I am still able to live in San Diego while these next few weeks pass by, I am able to graduate from a public university, among many 
other things taken for granted. Acknowledging and 
calling it out doesn’t guarantee clarity, but offers a perspective shift that is needed and can have the potential to shape next steps. 
And in the process of putting on those big-
kid shoes and trying to figure out how to wobble 
through the next steps, come to terms with the 
little yes’s and no’s. All of us have the capacity to reach some end goal, whether or not it is seen with 20/20. So in that bigger “yes” waiting for us, 
there are smaller yes’s and no’s that can be exciting, 
challenging, or disappointing, but in the meantime give better structure to whatever lies ahead. 
Though there is much to come, we also have 
time to play with the present, even though time 
is persnickety and likes to push nostalgia or 
anticipation. It’s easy to get caught up in memories or planning and preparing, only to forget that presence and intentionality are a part of the process. In this 
time of “in-between” sandwiched by “before” and 
“after, ” there are still relationships that can be built, spaces to occupy, and lessons to learn. So until the tense changes into past and future becomes present, make some last minute trips to Tacos El Gordo, find 
some moments to appreciate a San Diegan sunset, 
actually talk to your roommate — whatever you need to do to make sure those bucket list boxes are ticked off. 
No one knows what the next few months, let 
alone years, will look like with full certainty, and with all-intended cliche, that’s OK! Transitions can be rough, but to each season its own. We’ll get there, kids.Lifestyle Lessons: The Season of After
by Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle Editor 
Genius Asian Egg Donor 
Wanted 
$60,000 compensation  
 
Email williamn@alumni.stanford.edu  for more information.  
We are a couple seeking an Asian egg donor to help build our family. You should be near top of your class, and 
preferably have some outstanding achievements and awards.  You should be between 18-35 years old, and you 
want to help bring a child into the world with your special gifts.  
About us: We are unable to have children due to the woman’s egg quality. We have tried numerous cycles of 
fertility cycles without success. For many years we have dreamed about having 4 little dragons and growing a 
beautiful forest of descendants.   
An example of our ideal egg donor: 21 year old UCSD student, top in her class, several awards in high school 
and university. She wants to be an egg donor in order to help bring a child into the world with the same special 
gifts she has.  
Your eggs will be fertilized with sperm from the man, and the resulting embryos used to impregnate the woman, 
or possibly a surrogate mother.  
About us: we are a highly educated couple, but we are unable to have children due to infertility of the woman. 
The man is a highly accomplished scientist/mathematician and businessman, the woman has a good university 
degree.  The woman is Chinese, thus we are seeking an Asian egg donor. 
We value education, and we live in one of the best school districts in the world. We hope that our child will be 
gifted, as each of us is, and that he/she will have a positive impact on the world.  
THIS IS A PAID ADVERTISMENTCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
TROPA MAGICATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 28 - JUN 32018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, JUNE 1
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
2pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR 
FORUM - GSA LOUNGE, ORIGINAL 
STUDENT CENTER
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This forum will provide a supportive space to discuss various topics from a multicultural lens, which includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with your adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, family responsibilities, relationships (romantic or social),multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
5pm
CALL TO ARTISTS! - APPLY ONLINE
The UC San Diego Visual Arts Group is now accepting artist applications for our annual Summer Art Show. Deadline to apply is Tuesday, May 29 2018. Submission is open to all UC San Diego students, faculty, staff, alumni, retirees, and emriti. Artists are permitted to sell their work. Submission Deadline: May 29. Artist Reception: June 25. Show Dates: June 11 - August 20. Accepted artwork will be displayed at UC San Diego in the Price Center Red and Bear Rooms as well as the two display cases that connect Price Center East and West. Contact: visartsgroup@ucsd.edu10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Join us for guided meditation, Thursday from 
10-10:30 am! A practice to help increase focus and concentration, reduce stress and gain a sense of well-being. Whether or not you have ever meditated, you may enjoy this sampling of techniques as they guide you to the blissful silence behind thoughts. Seated, standing, lying down and moving techniques may be covered. Suitable for all levels of experience. All classes with Vou Athens.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES! - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come to Therapy Fluffies every Thursday from 
1:30-2:30pm! We bring a variety of trained therapy dogs to help you all unwind! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu 
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: MOVE YOUR 
BODY TONE YOUR MIND - MURRAY’S 
PLACE, STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES 
CENTER
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcome! Yoga mats are provided! Contact: diquach@ucsd.edu
6pm
SHORT TALES FROM THE 
MOTHERSHIP - SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY 
Join us at The Mothership (Geisel Library) to hear 
new sci-fi micro-fiction stories from fellow futurists, inventors, adventures and time-travelers. If you can, submit a short sci-fi or fantasy tale of your own: 250 words or less, send as an email to spaulson@ucsd.edu. The evening is inspired by 1970’s sci-fi magazine editor George Hay’s original micro-fiction challenge. Hay asked all the great sci-fi writers of the day to send a full story that could fit onto a postcard. Arthur C. Clarke was among the first to submit. Join us in listening, or read your own story aloud, or help present for an absent colleague. Contact: spaulson@ucsd.eduTUE5.29
THU5.31MON5.28
9:30am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - COMMUTER 
LOUNGE, PRICE CENTER 
University Centers Presents: Destress Mondays. 
TEA, SNACKS, BLISS. Make your Mondays the day 
to recharge and refresh to begin your week with a 
bright start! De-stressors will be provided to help 
you get going for your day such as refreshments, 
food, and more! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: PEACE OF 
MIND MONDAYS - GALBRAITH HALL 
ROOM 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but do 
you wish to learn how to navigate them better? In 
Peace of Mind workshops, you learn how to live in 
the moment, manage your emotions, increase 
interpersonal skillfulness and identify what is 
really important in your life. Contact: 
plamatya@ucsd.edu
10am
OASIS @ THE ZONE - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come Fridays from 10 am - 12 pm for tutoring 
provided by Oasis! No appointment needed! Subjects offered are Math (10 & 20 series), Chemistry (4,6,7L too), Organic Chemistry, and Writing (peer review, outlines, rough drafts). Study supplies provided. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.eduFRI6.01WED5.30THE LOFT, PC EAST • 7:30pm
1pm
MULSIM'S SISTER'S COMMUNITY 
FORUM - THURGOOD MARSHALL 
COLLEGE (TMC ) ADMIN BUILDING, 
ROOM 126
Join us for conversations about our experiences 
as Muslim women and connect with other 
Muslim sisters on campus. This forum will 
provide an open and supportive space for members to discuss various topics, which may include family and gender roles and challenges, cultural and religious identity, romantic relationships, discrimination, conflict resolution, well-being, & etc. Dr. Sheva Assar and Asmaa Deiranieh, a Wellness Peer Educator, both identify as Muslim women and will facilitate this community conversation. Contact: sassar@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come in on to The Zone Wednesday from 
2:30-3:30 pm, right after R&R Squad to learn a 
new way to de-stress with the CAPs Wellness 
Peers! Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management. Get a 
one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration and 
learn about deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that help to reduce 
stress. You never know what a simple breathing 
exercise can do for you! Workshops are all free. 
Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
1pm
ILEAD: BECOMING A 
STRENGTHS-BASED LEADER - 
WARREN ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 3
Using Gallup’s StrengthsFinder assessment, this 
workshop will introduce student leaders to the positive psychology of StrengthsFinder in developing their own best paths to leadership. Students will be able to understand their most dominant natural talents and how to apply them to leadership positions. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: 
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY LIVING - 
MURRAY’S PLACE, STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES CENTER 
Mindfulness meditation has been shown to be 
effective for reducing stress, anxiety, depression and increasing a sense of inner peace and contentment. Dr. Elise Curry has maintained a daily meditation practice for 18 years and attended professional training programs for mindfulness. Contact: ecurry@ucsd.edu
1pm
IMAGINATION AND HUMAN 
ORIGINS - CONRAD T. PREBYS 
AUDITORIUM, SALK INSTITUTE
In CARTA's "Imagination and Human Origins" 
symposium, we will explore imagination as a unique and enhanced human ability, how and why this capacity evolved in our lineage, the impact of imagination in sciences and arts, the consequences of imagination impairment, and the fundamental genetic and neurological basis of human imagination. Free admission but registration is required. A live webcast of this symposium will also available. Presented by UC San Diego/Salk Institute Center for Academic Research and Training in Anthropogeny (CARTA) Sponsored by the G. Harold and Leila Y. Mathers Charitable Foundation and The Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group.14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
MAY 30National
Water a Flower DayCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Bed support
5. Plenty9. Canvas covers
14. Fox’s home
15. Mimic
16. Soap ____17. Pointed out19. Railroad station
20. Intensify
21. ____ and cheese
23. Rep. ’s opponent25. Made a lap26. Knockout count
27. Ragged
32. ____ Plaines, Illinois
34. Oscar, e.g.35. Love excessively37. Bonnets
41. Detective’s assignment
42. Two cubed
43. Zone44. Youngster45. Pinnacle46. E.T., e.g.47. Droop49. Pilot’s craft51. Spigot54. Winter ailment56. Congressman (abbr.)57. Innate60. Nome’s state65. Bring to mind66. Woodworker68. Ceremonies69. Lily species70. Shade71. Splash72. British noble73. God of loveDOWN
 1. Coasted2. Alley3. Helper4. Stumble5. Less fatty6. Sept. follower7. Those there8. Fizzy drinks9. Until now (2 wds.)10. Mimicker11. Plant again12. Apt13. Lustrous fabric18. Surrendered22. West Pointer24. Army doctor27. Poise28. On vacation29. Assigned job30. Forest growths31. Doctrine33. Will36. Possessive pronoun38. Diva’s song39. Juvenile40. Reasonable42. U.S. symbol46. Eve’s fruit48. Once more50. The Grim ____51. Seat rows52. Blacksmith’s tool53. Picture55. Open a bottle58. Makes do59. Fable61. Poker fee62. Agitate63. Gambling game64. Humanities67. CaviarHOUSING
Female roommate North PB - $950 per 
month Available June 17th.. Cute 3 bed -
room and 3 bath spacious townhouse 
North PB 3 blocks from Tourmaline beach 
to share with one health conscious profes -
sional woman. Large bedroom and pri -
vate bathroom. Utilities/Wi-Fi included. 
In house washer/dryer. Cleaning service. 
Ample street parking. Friendly dog and 
cat are included. Absolutely no smoking 
inside or out. For more information or to schedule a visit please call Jeanie (858)752-
3304 ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationLa Jolla UTC Room/Bath - $1,500. Fully 
Furnished Bedroom w/Queen Size Bed 
(Secured Key Lock), Desk/Workstation, 
In-Room Mini-Fridge, Closet w/Private 
Bathroom. Shared Kitchen W/Access to all 
Dishes/Pots & Pans Refrigerator and pantry 
Space. Onsite Parking Space if Needed. 
In-House Washer/Dryer, 42” Flat-screen 
TV w/Satellite/Cable Connected and Free 
Wi-Fi. Access to Community Pool/Hot Tub. 
Grocery Store and Restaurants Across 
the Street w/Bus Stops Near by. Walking 
Distance to La Jolla Colony Greenbelt/
Community Park. UCSD and UTC Mall very 
close. Easy Access to I-5 and Hwy 52. ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
SPORTS
2 matching 9’ Kayaks - $500. Ready for 
ocean and lakes! two matching 9’ kayaks. 
Heavy Duty seats , foot pads, removable 
child seats, two paddles and two life jackets $500 for both or one for $275 OBO. ucsd-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
6’3” E.T Surfboard - Awesome! - $150.
Vintage Mid 80’s Surfboard by E.T Surfboard - Hermosa Beach- Terrific condition for its 
age. Great for learning and for paddling, 
Signed and Numbered by Pat Ryan #2159. 
Terrific deal!| HEIGHT: 6’3”| Width: 17.5”| Thickness”: ~1”PETS
Adopt Nenita a Domestic Short Hair. How I arrived: I was brought in by my previous owner April 25, 2018.At SDHS: I have been 
vaccinated, microchipped and spayed/neu -
tered. I’m now ready for my new home! 
Why I am the 1 for you: My Personality Color 
Code is Blue; meaning I’m Bashful...S... see 
more at Petfinder.com. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information.
Adopt Midnight a Mixed Breed. You can fill 
out an adoption form on-line on our main 
website. Foster Or Forever Home Wanted: 
Meet Midnight!! This exquisite, 1-2yr old, 
adorable girl came to us from the San 
Jacinto Shelter after she was dumped by 
her family after being at... see more at 
Petfinder.com. ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information.
Adopt Maggie a Labrador Retriever, Hound. 
Maggie is five months old and weighs 18 pounds. She is great with other dogs 
and great around people. She is friendly, 
active, easygoing, playful and is learning how to walk on a leash. Maggie and five other siblings were relinquished by their owner after we sp... see more at Petfinder.com. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information.
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTEDNAMASTE 
Wanted:  
Nepali student for part-time 
translation work (Nepali to 
English) for documentary film 
shot in Nepal.  Short term now 
with retired UCSD professor. 
rranson@ucsd.eduLike  us  on  
Faceb o o k
@UCSDGUARDIAN
1 Month FREE!
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/18.
Quick & Easy – Rent Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours: 7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours: 6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.com /ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
This weekend, the UC San Diego women’s rowing team 
headed to Sarasota, Florida to participate in the National 
Collegiate Athletic Association Division II Championship. 
The UCSD Varsity 8 crew consists of Brooke Campbell, Tonya 
Khounani, Kyley Jones, Sydney McGuire, Catherine Mosher, Jane Zanteson, Alana Zaleski, Audrey Ruttan, and coxswain Juni Kim. In the first race of the tournament, UCSD earned second place. 
Racing the second heat, the Tritons finished their 2000-meter in 
6:57.572. Through the first 500-meter, the Tritons held the lead, 
completing the first leg of the race two seconds ahead of Western 
Washington; the Tritons remained in front for the majority of the race. However, on the final 500-meter, Western Washington 
managed to catch up, finishing the race just three seconds ahead 
of UCSD. Though its second place did not secure it a spot in 
the finals, it did give it a second opportunity to qualify in the 
repechage. The Tritons did not waste their second opportunity. 
In the repechage, UCSD came in first, improving its time by more than twenty seconds. Beating out Florida Tech, Barry, and Mercyhurst with a time of 6:36.734, UCSD’s performance in its second race of the competition earned them a spot in the Varsity 8 
Grand Final. In the Eights Grand Final, UCSD was second, with a 
time of 6:51.352. Competition for second place was fierce. Central 
Oklahoma quickly established itself as the leader, leaving UCSD, Florida Tech, and Western Washington to compete for second. 
UCSD, Florida Tech, and Western Washington were neck-and-neck for most of the race. Coming into the final 500-meter of the 
race, UCSD seemed at risk of coming in fourth: Florida Tech in 
second and Western Washington in third. However, the margins 
were still close. Refusing to give up, the Tritons won second place by a hair, coming in just 0.356 seconds before third place Florida Tech. The end of the NCAA Championship marks the end of the 
rowing season. The team looks to celebrate their recent victory 
and prepare for next year.BY richard  lu
associate sports editor
richard  lu  ril014@ucsd.eduUCSD Claims Second in Varsity 8 
Grand Finals at NCAA Championship
Despite some tight moments in the race, the Tritons beat out Florida Tech by 0.356 seconds to 
claim second place.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSThis week the UC San Diego 
Track and Field team participated 
in the NCAA Division II National 
Championship at the Irwin Belk 
Complex in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Day One
On day one, the Tritons were 
led by three competitors, senior Paul Doan in the 100-meter, senior Meghan Fletcher in the 400 hurdles, 
and redshirt junior Matt Bowen in 
the long jump. Doan and Bowen were awarded with All-America Second Team Honors for their efforts on Th ursday.At 11:30 a.m. on Thursday, 
Bowen readied for his long jump. He led off the day for the Tritons with 
a strong 24’1.5”-foot jump good enough for 12th place in the event. This was the third time in his college 
career that he has placed in the top 
12 in the NCAA Championship.
Next up, the 16th-ranked 
Division II 100-meter sprinter Paul 
Doan took the stage. Doan was 
clocked at 10:58 for his race and finished in 11th place.
The Tritons last competitor 
on Thursday was Fletcher, who 
began her 400 hurdles at 4:55pm. Fletcher finished 18th with a final 
time of 1:01.95. This was Fletcher’s 
first appearance in the NCAA Championship.
Day Two
Day two once again featured 
Doan as the senior competed in the 200. Day two also included junior hurdler Nicholas Rack and redshirt 
junior jumper Tais Marinho-Gomez.
Marinho-Gomez led o ff the day 
for the Tritons in the triple jump. 
Marinho-Gomez entered the day as 
the 21st-ranked triple jumper and 
placed 20th with a jump of 37’10” . Marinho-Gomez was not able to match her entry mark at 40’1.5” , 
which was the second farthest jump 
in UCSD history.
After Marinho-Gomez, Doan 
began the 200-meter, his second race of the week. Doan placed 18th in the 200-meter, which concluded his 
NCAA Division II Championship 
Week.
At 3:40 p.m., Rack readied for 
his 110-meter hurdles. This was 
Rack’s first appearance in the NCAA 
Division II Championship, and he did not disappoint. Rack ran a time of 14:18 which was good for eighth place and guaranteed him a spot in 
the national final on day three.
Day Three
Day three featured two Tritons 
from the past two days and one new one. Rack participated in the 110 
hurdles finals and Bowen and junior 
jumper Arik Nesbit took part in the triple jump.
Rack was not finished a fter his good run on day two. In the 110 hurdles final he improved on his day 
two time, cutting his time from 14:18 
to 14:06, and placing fourth in the 
race. This was a great end to Rack’s 
stellar performance this weekend and this season. The San Diegan 
was awarded with USTFCCAA All-America First Team Honors for his work.
In the triple jump, the Tritons 
had two competitors, Bowen and Nesbit. Bowen jumped 47’0.25” and Nesbit jumped 49’5” , which was good enough for 13th and 21st, respectively.16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
at Columbus State (NCAA Championship)
at IRA National Championships
at IRA National Championshipsat IRA National Championships SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
M Rowing
M RowingM Rowing4 PM
All DayAll DayAll Day5/29
6/16/26/3
Facing a 1–7 de ficit, the second-
seeded UC San Diego baseball 
team fought an uphill battle in the 
NCAA West Region Final against 
Azusa Paci fic on Monday, May 21. 
For the second consecutive year, the two schools met in the final 
for a spot in the NCAA Division II Championship tournament. Even with a 1–7 de ficit, the Tritons came 
back in dramatic fashion to book their spot to Cary, North Carolina. 
With the bases loaded, senior 
catcher Michael Palos hit a walko ff 
single to earn UCSD an 8–7 victory on the home field of Azusa to make 
for an unbelievable win. 
Not only did the Tritons defeat 
Azusa Paci fic for the second straight year, but they also went through the 
West Regional field in perfection 
with a 4–0 record. With the victory, 
the Tritons make it four NCAA Division II West Region titles.  
Azusa Paci fic were first to scratch 
as they got o ff to a 1–0 lead in the 
second inning. However, UCSD responded in the same inning with one run on their own to level the 
score at 1–1. The Cougars were just 
getting started though, because in 
the next three innings they would score 6 runs to make it a seemingly comfortable 7–1 lead at the 
midpoint of the game. Two homers 
in that stretch by the host team put the Tritons in a hole. 
The game could have been all 
over at that point, but the 1–7 deficit in the fifth inning just set the 
stage for an incredible comeback. Immediately, the Tritons responded 
with 2 runs in the fifth to cut 
the de ficit to four. With runners 
on second and third in the fifth, 
redshirt junior Zander Clarke began 
the comeback with a 2 RBI single. 
While the Cougars had an 
amazing o ffensive start to the game, 
they could not carry that momentum throughout the course of the entire 
game. In the final four innings, the 
Tritons held the Cougars scoreless.
In the meantime, UCSD was 
catching fire and really got going in 
the second half of the game.  With the score at 3–7 going into the sixth, 
the Tritons would get another run in through a fielding error to make it 
4–7. 
No action would happen in the 
seventh, but in the eighth, UCSD would really put the pressure on the host as the Tritons would crawl 
within one going into the final 
inning. Both redshirt sophomore 
utility Steven Schuknecht and redshirt sophomore catcher Nick Kitzmann solo homered to get 2 
runs in. 
Azusa Pacific had one last chance 
to put some runs in between them 
and UCSD in the top of the ninth 
but failed to do so. This meant it was 
showtime for the Tritons to get one 
last rally going for a chance to close the game out and be crowned West Region Champions. 
They did just that as freshman 
infielder Shay Whitcomb would be 
hit by a pitch to start the inning, followed by a walk for senior 
infielder Justin Beck, a strikeout, 
and yet another walk, this time for 
redshirt freshman in fielder Blake Baumgartner. With one out and the 
bases loaded, Kitzmann stepped up 
to the plate and earns a walk to level the score at 7–7 incredibly. Then with 
the final hit of the game, Palos pinch 
hits and sends the walko ff hit to left  
field and earn the team back-to-back 
West Region Championships.  
Next up for the Tritons was the 
NCAA Division II Championship as 
they faced Texas A&M Kingsville on 
Sunday, May 27 and blanked them 4–0 to move on into the winners’ bracket. UCSD will face Columbus State on Tuesday.
baseballTritons Can’t 
Be Stopped
After overcoming a 1-7 deficit to 
Azusa Pacific and dominating Texas 
A&M Kingsville 4-0, the Tritons 
have another shot at the NCAA Championship.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
BY daniel  hernandez
senior Staff Writer
daniel  hernandez  dah043@ucsd.edu
track  and  fieldTritons 
Have Solid 
Showing 
Junior Nicholas Rack earned All-
America First Team honors thanks 
to his strong season championship 
showing.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
BY LUCAS ARMSTRONG
Contributing Writer
lucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu