The American Federation of State, County and 
Municipal Employees Local 3299 launched a three-
day strike from Oct. 23 to 25 in response to the 
University of California’s continued practice of subcontracting labor to private companies. Across 
California, 15,000 patient technical care workers, 
over 9,000 AFSCME-represented service workers, and 15,000 University Professional and Technical 
Employees and Communications Workers of 
America (UPTE-CWA) union workers joined picket lines and rallies.
The three-day event marks the second time this 
calendar year that union workers have come out in opposition to the UC system’s subcontracting practices, or the hiring out of contractors at 
lower wages than UC employees for already-filled 
positions. In this past year’s negotiations, the union sought a six-percent wage increase, but the UC 
system only offered a 3-percent increase over four 
years, which led to the first round of strikes. Around 53,000 workers came out in protest statewide.
“We’ve bargained in good faith for over a year 
to address outsourcing at UC because it creates unequal and insecure circumstances that workers 
must struggle with every day, ” AFSCME Local 
3299 President Kathryn Lybarger announced in a press release on the day of the first strike. “Instead 
of joining us in an effort to arrest these alarming 
trends, UC has insisted on deepening them — leaving workers no option but to strike. ”As AFSCME Lead Organizer Shaun McCollum 
pointed out to a crowd of protestors on Tuesday, 
Oct. 23, private contractors make about $8.50 less 
than UC workers, as confirmed by a state audit.
Director of Media Relations for the UC Office of 
the President Claire Doan condemned the decision to strike, saying that it would be “no more effective now than it was in May. ”
“For a year, AFSCME leaders have refused to 
budge on their unreasonable demand of a 36-percent raise over four years for patient-care workers, ” Doan 
said. “That is nearly triple what other university 
employees have received and clearly unrealistic for a taxpayer-funded institution like UC. ”
According to a UC budgets summary, the largest 
source of general funds for the UC system is nonresident supplemental tuition, and not taxpayer-generated revenue.
Doan told the Guardian that AFSCME patient-
care and service workers are “already compensated at or above market rates, along with affordable health 
insurance and generous retirement benefits. ” She 
argued that AFSCME leaders’ “combative approach” in refusing to reach a consensus with the University 
has cost service workers their pay increases.
“I would hope that after two walkouts by 
university workers, they would understand that this is more about job security, ” AFSCME 3299’s 
Communications Director John de los Angeles told the 
The San Diego City Council 
on Public Safety and Livable Neighborhoods voted on 
Wednesday, Oct. 24 to move 
forward with San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer’s recent proposal 
to enforce new safety regulations 
on dockless scooters, such as Bird scooters.
A popular transportation option 
among UC San Diego students, Bird scooters are operated via mobile apps, which have built-in QR scanners capable of unlocking and activating the apparatus for a 
designated amount of time. 
Proposed regulations include the 
lowering of the maximum speed limit from 15 to 8 mph in high-
traffic environments, including 
Mission Beach, Pacific Beach, and La 
Jolla Beach boardwalks. Additional proposed regulatory frameworks 
include increased operational safety 
information for riders, updated liability insurance, and data-sharing 
features.  San Diego medical authorities 
are concerned about the rise in 
scooter-related injuries, given the 
number of incidents reported this 
summer.
 “It’s just a matter of time before 
someone is killed, ” Chief of medical staff at Scripps Mercy Hospital in 
San Diego Michael Sise told The 
Washington Post. “I’m absolutely certain of it. ” 
Faulconer addressed the dangers 
posed by electric scooters in a recent VOLUME 52, ISSUE 5  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 29, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Time Magazine Honors 
UCSD Professor for Superbug Breakthrough
Steffanie Strathdee was recognized as 
one of the most improtant people in 
healthcare in 2018
UC SYSTEM
BY Andrew HA
Contributing Writer
Mayor Faulconer Proposes New Regulations for Dockless Scooters
AFSCME 3299 members were on strike from Oct. 23 to Oct. 25 // UCSD GuardianUC San Diego professor of 
medicine Steffanie Strathdee recently 
received the 2018 Time Magazine 
honor for being one of the 50 most influential people in health care. The 
magazine recognized Dr. Strathdee’s 
success in developing a new treatment for superbugs – bacteria 
which are resistant to antibacterial 
drugs – through the use of phage, or bacterial virus, therapy. This therapy 
administers phages into patients so 
that the phages infect superbugs and eliminate them. 
Phage therapy is a beneficial 
technique because phages are specific to which bacteria they will 
latch onto and attack, meaning that 
they will not harm the body’s natural homeostasis. When the phage attacks 
the superbug cell, the phage will also 
replicate itself. This will allow more phages to kill more superbugs, until 
there are no more superbugs in the 
patient’s body. 
The research into phage therapy 
was initiated when Strathdee’s 
husband, UCSD professor of 
psychiatry Thomas Patterson, contracted an unusual type of 
bacterium while on vacation. 
Conventional antibiotics did not stymie the bacteria’s growth, which 
led Strathdee to look into alternative 
methods to cure her husband. With the help of UCSD professor 
of medicine Robert Schooley, she 
developed a procedure to alleviate Patterson’s ailment.  
“The first thing we had to do 
was find phages that were active against his particular organism, and 
the only way to do that is to take 
the organism and have it grow in a laboratory, ” Schooley explained 
to the UCSD Guardian. “What 
we needed to do was increase the pressure on the organism by treating 
it intravenously. ” 
Once the phages were 
administered, Patterson took only three days to start recovering. 
His initial condition, however, reflects a greater phenomenon 
occurring around the world. 
With the heightened global use of antibacterial drugs, some bacteria 
have mutated to resist medication. 
These superbugs pose a great danger to many people because there is a 
limited number of treatments that 
address the issue. 
“We’re at a point right now By Tyler Faurot   News EditorUC SYSTEM
AFSCME 3299 Strike Concludes, UC Responds With ShrugsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
OLD PROBLEM, 
NEW SOLUTIONS
The Guardian spoke 
with two UC San 
Diego sexual assault 
awareness organizations 
about their missions 
and perspectives on 
campus sexual assault.
COLLEGE  COUNCILS
TROYE  SIV ANEnding  the  Bloat
A  Gay  Night  Of  Dancing   Opinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “Sanitizing queer 
culture means 
slapping a label on 
an otherwise non-
objectionable story 
and marketing it as 
a cultural mainstay 
in the fight for 
recognition. ”Features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
 H 78 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 83 L 56
TUESDAY
H 74 L 56
THURSDAY
H 82 L 59
LTE................................4
ART PARK.....................7
FREDDIE MERCURY ...10
HALLOWEEN..............11
M. WATERPOLO.........16CAMPUS
Christopher Robertson
Queeries
 PAGE 4The proposals seek to limit speeds and update liabilities, but some students are worried about the hardware 
BY abigail staggemeier
Staff wRiter
See SCOOTERS,  page 3 See TIME,  page 3See TIME,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
DESIGN CONTEST By Michi Sora
POCKET
Wednesday Nov. 7
FREE  FOOD, DRINKS, PERFORMANCES
SPECIAL THANKS TO KSDT FOLLOW  US ONStudent Center • 6: 30-8pmOFFICEAT
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. We all just did 
squats in the office and now the Guardian is over.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Rowena Ma
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
Guardian. “[W]hat good is a raise if 
your job is allowed to be outsourced 
the next day?”
In attendance at UCLA ’s protest 
on Oct. 24, U.S. Senate candidate Kevin de León addressed the crowd 
of strikers. 
“When you make the decision 
to strike, you demonstrate the courage of your convictions, to do what’s right by your fellow workers, 
to do what’s right by your family members, to do what’s right by your 
children, your sons and daughters 
who look up to each and every one 
of you, ” de León said to the crowd. “This is about human dignity and 
respect. ”
“I would think [the UC system] 
is beginning to hear our concerns, ” de los Angeles told the Guardian. 
“Thousands of workers out across the state, not just AFSCME-
represented workers. I think that speaks volumes to how serious this 
problem is. The turnout on the 
strike line should speak for itself. 
“If the university continues to 
ignore the well-founded concerns of these workers, they’ll continue to 
fail the people of California, ” de los Angeles added. “They’ll continue to 
stand at odds with the university’s 
mission, which is to serve as an engine of economic mobility for the 
people of this state. ”The strike officially came to a 
close at 4 a.m. on Oct. 26. The University of California is set to 
enter mediation with UPTE-CWA this coming November.UC San Diego saw an unexpected 
increase in admission yield this fall, contrasting the lower expected yield for the quarter. The growing 
admission yield is consistent with the recent pattern of a growing number of enrolled students at the 
university.
Every year UCSD admits a 
certain number of students based on the percentage of students who 
are expected to accept the o ffer 
of admission. Usually, not every 
student who is admitted will accept 
the offer, but this year the admission 
yield was higher than predicted. This fall, UCSD’s enrollment rate 
was at least 10 percent higher than expected.
“We thought we’ d get about 21 
percent of the students we admitted, but the figure was in the 30s, ” 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla told the San Diego Union-Tribune. 
According to UCSD Interim 
Communications Manager Christine Clark, currently there are 15,803 students living on campus 
this fall. Out of those 15,803, 11,562 
students are undergraduates and 4,241 are graduate students. 
UCSD’s O ffice of the Registrar 
statistics depict an increasing enrollment pattern. There are a total 
of 30,285 undergraduate students enrolled for Fall 2018, which is almost 2,000 more than 28,587 undergraduate students who were 
enrolled in Fall 2017. 
With this increasing enrollment 
trend, UCSD has taken action in preparation of an escalating 
undergraduate enrollment with the current construction of several 
housing projects. 
“We currently have the North 
Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood under construction 
for 2,000 undergraduate beds, opening in 2020, ” Clark said. “ The 
Living and Learning Neighborhood is currently being constructed on what was once the P207 and P208 
lots between [John] Muir College and [Thurgood] Marshall College. ” 
Two more projects will house 
graduate students, opening in 2020. Nuevo West will hold 808 beds, and 
Nuevo East will hold 1,356 beds. 
Marshall Residential Life 
declined to comment on the housing shortage for additional students not accounted for in the expected 
admissions yield.
UCSD Faces Unexpectedly High Yield of  Admissions for 2018
The unexpected increase of acceptances led to a housing conundrum for the schoolCAMPUS
Madeline leon  m7leon@ucsd.edu
Tyler Faurot  news@ucsdguardian.orgBY Madeline leon
staff writer
AFSCME Confident That Strike Is Effective
▶ STRIKE , from page 1NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
where the superbug crisis isn’t just 
hitting individual people; it is a 
global health crisis. Small scrapes 
can turn into something larger, even taking someone’s life, ” Strathdee 
said to the Guardian. “It’s estimated 
[that by 2050,] 10 million people per year are going to die annually 
from antimicrobial infections, or superbugs, unless we take urgent 
action. ”
Patterson’s recovery went viral 
on the news, which led to Strathdee 
getting calls from other people 
facing similar ailments. The medical 
team took on five new patients, and all were cured using phage therapy. In an effort to explore 
the possibilities of this discovery, 
and capitalize on the excitement surrounding it, Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla organized for the university 
to help fund the new Center for Innovative Phage Applications 
and Therapeutics, which became official in June 2018 and is under 
the direction of Strathdee and 
Schooley. Their first directive was 
to conduct research in order to better understand the nuances of the 
procedure.
“We need to do the clinical trials. What is the dosing? What is the 
frequency? What is the interaction 
of phage with antibiotics? We hope 
to get that operating in 2019, ” Strathdee said. “ Also, the regulatory 
framework needs to change. The 
Food and Drug Administration doesn’t have a model for [phages].
Strathdee also hopes to develop 
an over-the-counter fixed phage 
cocktail pre-approved by the 
FDA, which will help kill some 
superbugs like methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. However, 
other superbugs like the one 
Patterson had would need to be assigned specialized phages unique to the patient’s particular organism. 
To address this issue, Strathdee 
is also looking into genetically engineering the phages to expand 
the range of organisms they could 
eliminate. 
“I’ d like to see us learn how to 
use bacteriophages for multidrug-
resistant infections, because they are 
a major problem in Africa, India, 
China, and Japan. I’ d like to see 
this become something available throughout the world, ” Schooley 
said.
Strathdee will release a new memoir in 2019 titled “The Perfect 
Predator. ” The book will recount 
her and her husband’s firsthand 
experience with the superbug and how she needed to forgo modern 
medical practices to cure him. It 
will also highlight the failures of current antibacterial medicines and 
the successful use of phage therapy. 
Andrew Ha  ah1a@ucsd.edu
abigail staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.edustatement. 
“ As with many disruptive new 
technologies, there are issues that 
need to be addressed …, ” Faulconer said. “First and foremost, public 
safety is our top priority and that 
will be reflected in these common-sense regulations. ” 
The forthcoming regulations 
won’t affect just the riders — the scooter company’s owners will face 
their share of increased regulations 
as well. 
Electric scooter companies like 
Bird must ensure that scooters are clearly marked with a warning against riding on sidewalks and 
must provide riders with city and 
state traffic-code guidelines. Scooter companies will also be required 
to present the city of San Diego with reports on their scooters’ 
whereabouts and the frequency of 
their usage on a monthly basis. 
The monthly reports will be used 
in accordance with, and to inform, San Diego’s Climate Action Plan, 
an initiative devoted to developing policy that will benefit the city’s 
economy and environment. The 
group emphasizes a greater reliance on renewable energy and electric 
transportation. 
That list includes creating 
a renewable energy program, implementing a zero waste plan, and 
changing policy to have a majority of the city’s fleet be electric vehicles.
Some are doubtful that policy 
changes alone are the answer to an improved dockless scooter 
experience. Roger Revelle College senior Amir Haas believes that 
mechanical fixes should precede 
policy changes. 
“Companies like Bird should 
be encouraged to refocus on the mechanical aspect of their 
scooters before facing more policy restrictions, ” Haas told the Guardian. 
“I’ve heard of so many instances 
of scooters malfunctioning … they should be sturdier. They should 
have better brakes and accelerator 
response. ”
Greg Block, the mayor’s senior 
press secretary and public policy manager, explained the extent to which the new regulations will 
impact UCSD scooter riders. 
“The regulations we are 
proposing won’t have any noticeable impact on campus at UCSD, ” Block wrote in an email to the Guardian. 
“The regulations include geofencing 
to limit scooter speed in several 
specific areas in the city (including the beach-area boardwalks and 
Balboa Park), fees the operators 
will have to pay, indemnification of the city, data sharing and rider 
education. ”
Block also emphasized the clear 
divide between city and campus jurisdictions. 
“The university is responsible 
for the streets and sidewalks on campus…, ” Block said. “We wouldn’t 
do anything to regulate on campus. That is the university’s responsibility 
and prerogative. ”
Electric scooters are the current 
subject of Mayor Faulconer’s proposed regulatory framework, which is anticipated to evolve as 
the dockless-transportation market 
expands. 
City Council Member Lorie Zapf 
highlighted San Diego officials’ priorities in a recent press release.
“My goal has always been to slow 
down the speed of the scooters and address safety concerns, ” Zapf said. 
“With this proposal, I feel confident that we will see changes for the 
better. ”
Mayor Faulconer’s proposal has 
been months in the making and is designed to ensure improved 
conditions for both riders and Bird company owners.Strathdee’s Discovery Helps Cure Other Patients
Students Concerned With Scooter Hardware and Maintenance▶ TIME , from page 1
▶ SCOOTERS , from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The developing acceptance 
of queer people in mainstream 
society has opened avenues for their increased visibility in the 
entertainment industry. The way that media represents queer communities, 
though, proves that these openings 
have bottlenecked. Rather than 
constructing nuanced portrayals of queer life, media companies chose to finance narrow visions that are just 
vaguely … gay. 
Many queer communities use the 
word ‘gay’ as an umbrella term to situate themselves within the broader 
queer community without having to 
specify their exact sexual and gender 
identity. The entertainment industry 
evidently never got this memo, so 
they seem to think that any piece 
of queer representation that fits for 
one group will appeal to all others. 
Though this industry severely lacks 
queer representation, these profit 
driven decisions boil down these 
communities to a single homogenous 
market. 
Take “Love, Simon” for example, 
Fox 2000 Pictures’ 2018 piece de 
resistance. This generic box office 
hit tells the story of a suburban white teenager struggling to find his place 
in the world as a gay person. The 
movie raked in nearly 4 times its budget worldwide, and sponsored a host of social media blurbs about 
how touched parents of gay children 
were to finally understand the struggle plaguing their own children. 
Independent film studios have told the 
same story of the same gay teenage struggles in the same neighborhood many times over. Even a relatively 
large director like Xavier Dolan 
produced a francophone, arthouse version of the movie. Because these movies come from small studios, 
they do not have the funds to reach 
as wide an audience as Fox. “Love, 
Simon” reached heights queer media rarely sees not because of its unique 
storytelling, but because it had the weight of a profit-driven corporation 
behind it. 
The conflict queer people often 
see in movies like these is the tension between the desire for queer representation and the disappointment from the same retelling of the middle 
class white gay teenager in the 
suburbs. Production studios recreate this same story to ride the wave 
of queer acceptance without having 
to acknowledge the less profitable sides of queer life, like the fact that queer people of color exist or that 
queer people have sex. Sanitizing 
queer culture means slapping a label on an otherwise non-objectionable 
story and marketing it as a cultural 
mainstay in the fight for recognition. 
Recent successes in media that 
differ from the conventional standard of wealthy white people like “Black Panther” and “Crazy Rich Asians” prove that it pays to deviate from 
Hollywood’s classic models of 
success. So, as queer stories dip their toes into the entertainment industry, 
it is important to remind production 
studios that people have a vested interest in seeing themselves in media. The decentralization of administrative units that is necessitated by the multi-college system creates a maze of bureaucratic offices that is impossible for an outsider 
to conceptualize. The end result is that the student body is unable to keep a clear record of the way that the school is run or even where their money is spent. A key example of this are the college councils, which are comprised of students, both elected and appointed, that are tasked with allocating college funds and making fundamental decisions about the operations of their respective college. Those are substantial responsibilities for groups that enjoy relative anonymity within the student body. This existence in the periphery of the student awareness creates problems with accountability and transparency. Students should not be forced to navigate the strange web of offices and committees in order to find out where their money is going. The responsibility of maintaining elected officials accountable falls on the constituency, but in this instance it is up to the administration to not only make sure that these organizations stay on mission, but also to disseminate information to the rest of campus. 
The college council system itself lacks coherent organization, 
which heavily contributes to issues in accessing information. Each council is structured differently, which makes it hard to compare efficacy across colleges and to track spending. While it is true that each council is supposed to serve the needs of their college, our colleges are not so inherently different that the university could not standardize their structures. Instead, each college council is left to create their own bureaucratic mechanisms. Lack of standardization seeps into other areas as well. Councils have varying abilities to provide services and launch events. For example, student fees collected in every college are different, which gives the students of each college disproportionate experiences. 
This bloated bureaucratic system has churned out decision 
after decision that puts into question how much oversight these college councils actually receive. Take, for example, the seal at the entrance to Earl Warren College. Engraved with the Warren logo, it (along with the Warren College motto, which is emblazoned on the path) sits next to a nondescript bench next to the path. Its only defining feature is its enormous cost: the project cost at least $42,000. That is more than the estimated cost of undergraduate attendance for a year at this school. Even if these prices were reasonable, the question arises of whether the students should be paying them. The money came from Warren College Student Council reserved funds and heavy contributions from the provost. Saved student funding is primarily in be used for permanent or long-lasting projects that will tangibly benefit the Warren community. Although the seal project fulfills the permanence aspect, their benefit is doubtful, as the seal is nothing more than a self-aggrandizing photo-op in Warren Mall. 
This project was started six years ago, a generation of 
students ago. This time frame’s absurdity is only rivaled by the accompanying costs. Students who are no longer here decided to spend tens of thousands of dollars of student funds on a project that does not serve the purpose for which those funds are allocated and there is nothing to be done about it. Lack of oversight on council projects and lack of purposeful transparency to the student body can account for this. College councils should have a 
See COUNCIL, page 5
 My name is John Shinn. I am a 1971 graduate 
of Muir College and am outraged by the behavior of one so-called student, David Liu, who stole 
women’s underwear from the laundry room at 
the Marshall Apartments. I urge the University to expel him immediately and have him prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law with maximum 
jail time permitted by misdemeanor law! I am 
not only speaking for myself but also for three of my ’71 classmates, a current student-athlete, 
and hopefully for all alumni, faculty, and current 
students.           
  One of my classmates designed 
software for Mass Spectrometer analysis of lunar 
and meteor samples for the labs at UCSD that do 
that kind of work. He’s about the smartest guy I’ve ever met science-wise and has contributed greatly to the school over the years. He described 
the thief as a moron and a knucklehead and 
wants his head on a stick. A second spent most of his life as a high-level money manager for 
the Board of Regents as an investment advisor for the University’s general fund. He described 
the thief as a lecher, pervert, scumbag and other things unfit for print. He wants this guy to be 
flogged publicly in Revelle Plaza. A third, a noted 
and somewhat legendary “Waterman” living in Hawaii wants five minutes with the guy out in the parking lot. Needless to say, the bullseye we’ve put on the thief’s back is a pretty big one.                  
  Back in the late sixties it was blood 
and guts surviving each day attending UCSD. Only 3000 students. Every class was a nightmare. Foreign language, oral proficiency, and three quarters of calculus for every student or go home. 
When we had a spare moment we fought against 
the Vietnam War, Nixon, and Reagan. This punk couldn’t walk five feet in our shoes. We spill our 
guts for our school and our country and this punk 
steals girls’ underwear? You bet we’re hot about this fiasco!         
  When I attended school I took 20 units 
during three separate quarters, worked in the cafeteria, played on the baseball team, served as an ASB officer, and stole sandwiches from food machines to keep from starving. I am only a retired high school math teacher but gave 50 to 60 hours a week for most of my life to my 
community and loved doing it. What is underwear 
thief doing?      
  UCSD overenrolled by a thousand 
students this fall. They are doubling up in the 
dorm rooms. How about taking this punk’s room 
away and giving it to someone who goes to class, works, and keeps his nose clean? I know my son 
and nephew who were rerouted to UC Riverside 
(a fine school in its own right) would have made better use of the opportunity.   
  One last thing I need to mention. For 
decades local philanthropists have been donating tens of millions of dollars to the university. When news of the underwear thief reached them through the Union-Tribune and local television 
affiliate Channel 10, I suspect they were not 
pleased. Research at UCSD is vitally important to San Diego and our country. Keep up those 
contributions please. For every stupid idiot like the underwear thief, there are thousands of 
alumni who do good things and live good lives. Thank you hearing me out. It had to be said.Letter to the Editor: The Underwear Theif  Has Angered
 Students, Staff, and Alumni
By: Adriana Barrios // Opinion Editor
By: John Shinn, Class of ‘71QUEERIES
“How about taking 
this punk’ s room away 
and giving it to someone 
who goes to class, 
works, and keeps his 
nose clean?”
The views expressed here do not necessarily 
represent those of The UCSD Guardian.Gay Films Aren’t Gay, 
They’re CorporateLack of 
Oversight and 
Accountability 
Allows College 
Councils to 
Run Amok with 
Student FundsBy: Christopher Robertson //
 Senior Sta ff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By Anthony Tran
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
time limit on council projects, and administration should 
stop projects that don’t serve the student body instead of 
encouraging them. The accountability problem is easily 
seen throughout the six colleges. For example, Eleanor 
Roosevelt College’s council has allocated $7,500 to their 
retreat for multiple years now, even amid criticisms that 
argued it was a unnecessary expense. Although retreat 
provides training, workshops and bonding opportunities 
for council members, the student body should not bear 
the brunt of the financial responsibility. Especially 
given that other college councils manage to have retreat 
without spending nearly as much in student fees on them. 
Clearly, there is a systemic problem in translating student 
input on spending to college council actions.  Largely, this is due to each college’s administrations; 
they fail to provide the necessary guidance for councils 
to operate in the best interest of the students. Lack of 
oversight is not something that can be easily implemented, 
partially due to the way the decentralized administration operates; standardizing and mandating timely reports 
to the student body however can serve as a means of 
accountability. By standardizing structure, organization 
and fees, councils can more easily be held accountable 
and it would allow students to better understand their college’s government. Only by informing the populace 
can they truly hold their leaders accountable.
we publish  them .▶ COUNCIL , from page 6
Adriana Barrios  A7barrio @ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 
On Monday, Oct. 1, two women reported that they were sexually 
battered by a man at the Price Center Starbucks. When the UC San 
Diego Police Department reviewed surveillance footage, they found 
that several other similar cases had also taken place but were not reported.
Sexual assault cases like these abound among the police department’s 
timely warning emails from past years — campus sexual assault is pervasive, 
and UC San Diego is no exception. 
Victims of sexual assault at UCSD are not alone, however. UCSD’s Campus 
Advocacy, Resources, and Education program at the Sexual Assault Resource Center offers a wide variety of services to victims of sexual assault, relationship violence, and stalking, from crisis intervention to assistance by police. Students 
can access these services both in person and through the center’s 24/7 phone 
line.
Founder and Director of CARE at SARC Nancy Wahlig explained how 
the resource center’s location on campus upholds a safe, confidential environment for visitors.
“Our location is central yet secluded. 
How many people come up to the fifth 
floor of the Student Services Center? Y et 
we’re right in the heart of cam pus, so it’s not like we’re right off of Library Walk 
where people could say, ‘Oh look, they’re 
going into CARE at SARC. ’ The physical location of the center is really important. ”
In addition to CARE at SARC, another 
campus resource that will soon be available to survivors of sexual assault is the organization It’s On Us. While it was only 
founded this past summer, the student-led chapter of the It’s On Us movement 
has ambitious plans for programs and events later this year. 
“We plan to do sexual assault education on consent, prevention, bystander 
intervention, and resources for sexual assault survivors and victims. We also want to start a survivor support group. They need help academically, psychologically, and socially, ” said Earl Warren College sophomore and 
campus organizer for It’s On Us Gia Pedro.
As a sexual assault survivor, Pedro is well aware of what resources are 
important for other victims. Her experiences are what inspired her to open a chapter of It’s On Us here at UCSD.
“In my freshman year, I was sexually assaulted three times. It really took 
a toll on me, and I just thought to myself, ‘Why did this happen? There had to be a reason for this. ’ I wanted to help people who were going through the 
same thing. ”Pedro’s mission for It’s On Us is to unify the student community in sexual 
assault awareness and prevention. 
“We’re trying to change campus culture and let more people be aware of 
the issues, getting as many people involved in it as possible — not just women, but men, members of the LGBTQ+ community, athletes, Greek life — because 
anyone can be a victim, ” she explained.
And Pedro is certainly correct: 11.2 percent of all college students in 
the U.S. experience some form of sexual violence. Across the nation, sexual violence is more prevalent than other crimes.
In her over thirty years of experience in violence prevention and survivor 
services, Wahlig has observed various trends in sexual assault incidents on campus. 
“What has changed is the awareness that [the assailant] usually isn’t a 
stranger. The majority are known assailants. Oftentimes, it’s someone the victim 
felt totally comfortable engaging in 
sexual activity with, and then had that moved to a place where one 
person was not consenting to that 
behavior at all, ” she said. 
Wahlig further noted that, 
in recent years, she’s seen more instances of relationship violence.
“I am glad that people are 
reaching out about unhealthy relationships that they’re in and 
wanting to talk about it. People 
expect relationship violence to be 
of some physical nature. It’s not the fist all the time; it might be emotional, it 
might be verbal, or a turning away. ”
Pedro also observed that sexual assaults among college students often take 
place at parties, and said, “It happens a lot, especially when people are under the influence. It happens more often than you’ d think and not a lot of people 
talk about it. ” 
At UCSD, one challenge to addressing and combating sexual assault 
is the slowness of the process for victims who choose to report incidents. Victims have the options of non-investigative reporting, reporting to the police department, and reporting to campus administration. If the incident 
is reported to campus administration, the Office for the Prevention of 
Harassment and Discrimination conducts the investigation. 
“I reported my second sexual assault to OPHD. It happened last December The Guardian 
spoke with two 
UC San Diego sexual assault awareness organizations — one that’s been around for 30 years, and another that was founded this past summer — about their missions and perspectives on campus sexual assault.
By Jade Knows 
His Gun-Wong 
// Senior Sta ff 
WriterOld Problem, 
New Solutions: 
Sexual Assaul t 
at U CSD
“I reported my second sexual assault 
to OPHD. It happened last December 
and I’m still working on it. I was told the 
whole process would take 60 days, but it’s 
been eight months... ”  
ILLUSTRATION BY LEANNE CHEN
VISUALIZATIONS BY AMANDA SHU
SeeASSAULT , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Folded against the brown eucalyptus trees that dot the 
UC San Diego campus are eight double-sided walls. 
Located right across from the Mandeville coffee cart, the 
UCSD Graffiti Art Park provides a vibrant change in scenery 
in both the bright paints that mark the surfaces of the walls 
and the colorful messages that are displayed across them. It is a 
designated space where students are able to express themselves artistically in a public setting, a place assured to receive attention 
without the threat of being censored, as graffiti often is. 
Through the existence of the Art Park, it is clear that UCSD 
is trying to make an effort to not only enliven the campus with cultural sharing and artistic expression but also to provide a safe 
space where students can fight against hate and promote love and acceptance.
“Y ou probably heard the saying, ‘The best way 
to fight hate speech is with more speech, ’” Sharon Van Bruggen, the University Centers director and 
one of the overseers for the Art Park said. “Well, 
when the Graffiti Art Park was conceived, that seemed to be the message the students wanted to 
convey. I don’t remember those words exactly, but 
when we discussed what to do if someone expresses something that might be harmful, the students said 
they wanted other students to counter it rather than 
have the campus police it. We’ve only received a few calls, since the park opened, with concerns. We 
generally refer to the website and guidelines and 
encourage use of the reportbias.ucsd.edu website [should the caller] believe it is warranted. ”
In very much a good way, UCSD is providing 
students with a safe and controlled means of 
expression that is both compliant with student needs 
and with the university’s own policies. However, behind this desire to facilitate more of a “safe” 
environment for self-expression, the question arises: 
Is the university really allowing true expression or is it instead limiting students?
In order to answer that, a bit of background is 
needed. Behind the simplicity of the Art Park and its mission lies a complex history. In fact, the park itself can only really be 
understood as a result of the destruction of the old Graffiti Hall, 
which was previously located in Mandeville Hall. Formerly a stairwell that was dedicated toward the same idea of student expression, the Graffiti Hall was completely painted over in 
2013 and has now been repurposed as a normal stairwell. 
The reason? According to an email sent by Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications Stacie Spector, the 
hall was beginning to become overrun by what the university 
perceived as “trashy graffiti. ” This attitude can be reminiscent of the perception of graffiti in the world outside of UCSD, where 
art and political expression is often dismissed by authorities as trash graffiti, and taken down as a result. At UCSD, it is the 
same. Now, in the place of painted walls and artful expressions, 
security cameras and clean fluorescent lights line the blank, 
white walls. 
Quite understandably, many students were angered by this 
act, arguing that tearing away the Graffiti Hall was essentially stripping away pieces of UCSD’s history and culture. In fact, the Graffiti Hall had been a part of a UCSD subculture that 
was formed in the late 1970s, during which students would 
secretly graffiti different stairwells in buildings such as Applied Physics and Mathematics  or Humanities and Social Sciences. 
To them, the Graffiti Hall was more than just an area to express 
themselves — it was a living piece of history.
Much can be summed up by one Redditor’s comment 
(appearing on a UCSD subreddit page), which said, “Many plain responses were sharpied onto the new paint. But among 
them appeared this insightful bit, which forever changed my 
understanding of my relationship with the school: UCSD admins value pristine concrete over student expression. ”
Is this true? Do the leaders of UCSD care more about the 
cleanliness of the campus rather than freedom of expression? 
According to Van Bruggen, the opening of the Art Park was 
a means to attend to the desire for more student expression. The Art Park was inspired by Writerz Blok, an urban art program that channels youth expression into safe spaces. By creating 
walls similar to the ones at UCSD’s Art Park, or by giving them 
appropriate places where they can create art, Writerz Blok has helped many youths find themselves through art. For Van Bruggen, this was behind the idea of the creation of the Art Park. 
“I can’t speak for what the students found inspiring at 
Writerz Blok, but for me it was how the artists there spoke about developing friendships, belonging, and a sense of pride in their community, ” Van Bruggen said. “They spoke about respecting 
each other and finding their ‘voice’ through spending time at 
the park. ”
In m any ways, the Art Park does exactly that. It is safe, 
public, open, and provides a good channel for students who feel the need to voice themselves artistically. And yes, there are some people at this campus who feel it is a very useful and subjectively 
great program. Take, for example, John Muir College junior 
Esmeralda Lara. Having used the Art Park twice to display her own art, Lara feels it is a good way for her to express herself.
“I love it, ” Lara said. “I think it is so smart and so 
amazing that the school gave artists the opportunity to put their art somewhere public. I relate to it personally 
because I’ve been doing spray-painting since high 
school. And I really had to restrict myself to places where I could put my art. Y ou can’t go spray-painting 
walls because then you get in trouble for it, and then 
when people would spray-paint walls I would get in trouble for it, even though it wasn’t I who did it. So 
having a place where people could express themselves 
publicly is just amazing. I can’t even describe it. ” 
At the same time though, while these efforts by the 
university are commendable, it is vital to remember the history behind things such as the Art Park. After all, the administration has definitely been cutting 
many classes that used to interest students, such as art 
and recreation classes, as well as trying to close the 
Muir art gallery last year. As UCSD leadership slowly 
takes more and more control over student expression and becomes tighter with its regulations and policies, 
one cannot help but feel that this is not the end. If art 
and expression are meant to be free and have its full impact, then UCSD must be willing to allow places 
such as the Art Park to grow and flourish. This could 
include having the Art Park moved somewhere more visible, 
instead of being sequestered to a relatively isolated part of 
campus. Moreover, as the campus population grows, UCSD 
should also take measures to make the park larger in order to allow more students to express themselves. It must truly value the students and their input, and create an environment in 
which expression is possible beyond these eight walls. 
 By Madeline Park// Associate Features Editor
Quite understandably, many students were 
angered by this act, arguing that tearing away 
the Graffiti Hall was essentially stripping away 
pieces of UCSD’s history and culture. In fact, 
the Graffiti Hall had been a part of a UCSD 
subculture that was formed in the late 1970s, 
during which students would secretly graffiti 
different stairwells in buildings such as Applied 
Physics and Mathematics  or Humanities and 
Social Sciences. To them, the Graffiti Hall was 
more than just an area to express themselves — 
it was a living piece of history.Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@ucsd.edu
 Madeline Park   map048@ucsd.eduThe Art Park: 
Limiting Self-
Expression?
While the UCSD Art Park strives to create an atmosphere of self-
expression and creativity, its history tells of a complicated past of 
control and shutdown of these freedoms.and I’m still working on it. I was told the whole process would 
take 60 days, but it’s been eight months, ” Pedro said. “One 
reason my investigation is taking so long is that I had to change 
investigators, so staffing could be an issue. Sometimes [OPHD] reaches out to me at inconvenient times. They wanted me to 
meet with them over the summer when I was back home, even 
though I was here for the entire school year. ” 
The slow pace of the judicial and administrative processes 
in sexual assault investigations can take a toll on victims emotionally. They are left with the aftermath of the assaults in the back of their minds as they try to move on from the trauma. 
Wahlig said, “Imagine having to go through that process 
and still be the successful student that you want to be and do internships or work in a lab — to try to stay focused on that while thinking of this process that you don’t control. It’s really 
tough, sometimes exhausting. ” 
Wahlig’s protocol when assisting victims, therefore, is to 
assure them that they can drop their investigation at any point of the process, should they choose to report.
“When I’m working with somebody, I say, ‘Y ou know what — if you choose to do this process, it’s going to take a while. 
Everywhere you see processes. If you take classes or watch 
movies, everything just seems a lot faster. ’ So I kind of prepare 
people for the fact that it might take longer than they ever imagined, but at any point of the way they can stop. ”
 Despite these issues with the handling of sexual assault 
instances, the UCSD community has,  over the past several years, seen improvements in its efforts toward prevention 
and recognition of sexual violence. Wahlig noted that these 
strides are due in part to university-mandated programs on sexual assault awareness, such as presentations at new-student 
orientations.
She said, “We’re doing so much more prevention than we 
did even 10 years ago. When the university says, ‘Y ou need to 
do prevention. All of our students, faculty, and staff need this. 
This is part of our policies and procedures. People need factual 
information, ’ that’s a huge plus. We know that more information is getting out. ”
Beyond the scope of the university, there has also been a 
nationwide shift in the culture surrounding sexual assault. Nowadays, there is more of an emphasis on awareness and education than there is on victim-blaming. The #MeToo 
movement, for example, puts the perspectives of victims and 
survivors at the forefront, fostering solidarity and recognition of their experiences.
“Back then, there were all these [sayings] — ‘Don’t do 
this! Don’t go there! Don’t take candy from strangers!’ — just ridiculous sayings. Of course, they are good safety strategies, but 
they certainly aren’t addressing the problem, ” Wahlig said. “We 
actually just need to get rid of the crime as a whole. We need to stop people from harming others. But until that happens we 
need to make sure we give a loving, consistent, serious approach 
to addressing the crime. I think, in that way, there have been 
improvements. ”
Keep up with It’s On Us at UCSD on Facebook, Instagram, 
and Twitter.▶ ASSAULT , from page 6
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG8                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. Look for 
our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more details about the 
world-class care happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com.A&E THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
The latest date of Troye Sivan’s “Bloom” tour 
reached San Diego State University’s very 
own outside concert venue on Oct. 25. 
The California Coast Credit Union Amphitheater 
is wide and spacious, providing a welcoming and 
open atmosphere. The anticipation of waiting 
for headliner Troye Sivan steadily rose as people trickled into the amphitheater. Only a handful 
of dedicated fans had shown up for the openers 
when the concert kicked off around 7:30 p.m. I reclined in my seat the best I could, propped my 
feet up against the empty row in front of me, and 
prepared myself for the next three hours.
The first opener, Carlie Hanson, was met 
with a crowd that had roughly filled a quarter of the seats available. Nonetheless, she still strutted across her strip of the stage with spirit. 
Featuring typical indie-pop vocals reminding 
me of a huskier-sounding Halsey and a Twenty One Pilots-esque band, Hanson showed off her 
genre of defiant teen-pop. While a bit juvenile 
at times, she added considerably to the youthful energy of a standing pit formed by the front row 
that was mainly comprised of teenagers. I did not 
raise my middle finger up in the air like Hanson encouraged, but I did whoop and holler along 
to every one of her jerky headbangs. The set 
ended with Hanson running off stage, leaving the drummer and guitarist to finish off with rowdy 
solos. 
Carlie Hanson provided a mere taste of what 
was to come later in the show, which became more evident with the appearance of the second 
opener, Kim Petras. Typically, openers receive minimal, polite applause when coming on stage, but this was not the case with Petras. The audience 
greeted her with an astonishing amount of cheer; 
clearly, this was someone I had missed out on before. I was suddenly reminded of watching 
large handfuls of people buy her merch before 
the concert. This seemed trivial at the time — of course, people who purchase shirts from openers 
exist — but the number of Petras’ fans comprising 
the stands astounded me.
Boasting a side-bun, clout goggles, and 
glittery, platform sneakers, Petras was definitely my favorite surprise of the night. Though she was only backed by a DJ with a Macbook, Petras 
managed to command the stage with ease, 
earning all kinds of cheer and laughter from the crowd. Songs included “I Don’t W ant It at All, ” a 
bratty declaration of wanting all sorts of designer 
clothes and the sultry, synth-heavy “Close Y our Eyes, ” which was perfectly fit for a Halloween 
soundtrack. Petras appeared as an internet Barbie 
girl straight from the digital age, flaunting her brand of disco-pop with a bite. Petras was just fun 
overall, and she clearly riled up the crowd with 
her unapologetic and bold sound.
Now, with the amphitheater mainly filled, 
excitement and anticipation for the headliner thrummed in the air after nearly an hour and a half of openers. Once the lights dimmed, the 
crowd let out a final cheer before an audible hush 
fell upon the venue. Dramatic and theatrical, the curtains parted to reveal Sivan in a white 
suit bathed in blue light, a subtle reference to 
his past musical era “Blue Neighborhood. ” The crowd cheered, of course. He began with a soft serenade to “Seventeen, ” gently grooving to 
the beat, his shadow a large projection upon 
red velvet curtains. At this point, the stage remained minimal, featuring just the boy with 
his microphone.  
With “Bloom” being a softer and more 
melancholic album than “Blue Neighborhood, ” I was uncertain about how Sivan would translate 
the tracks to an energetic live performance. Y ou can’t really throw it back to a Troye Sivan song. 
My answer came soon after. Once Sivan hit 
the chorus to “Seventeen” for the second time, the real stage was revealed. Curtains opened 
up fully, displaying a two-tiered platform and, 
most importantly, a live band. The addition of live instruments breathed an air of vitality and 
exuberance in what would have been lukewarm 
performances; the guitarist saved Sivan’s delivery of “Wild” by ending the track with a thrashing 
solo, allowing the audience to truly “get wild. ”
Contrasting newly upbeat performances such 
as “Bloom” and “Wild” with candid, intimate renditions of “Postcard” and “The Good Side” 
demonstrated Sivan’s duality of performance. 
From slinking and spinning across stage to 
draping himself against a couch illuminated by hanging lamps, the presentation of each song reflected its mood. The visuals combined with 
the audio enhanced the experience overall. A 
particular image to note is Sivan’s well-loved noodle dance, where he goes gooey at the knees 
and elbows as he vibes to his own music. As the 
listener, I couldn’t help but groove along.Surprisingly, a memorable part of the show 
wasn’t even the music itself, but rather the way 
Sivan segued into different songs. He spoke to 
the audience like they were old friends, this comfortability stemming from his Y ouTuber 
roots and indicating his close relationship with 
his fans. Sivan even pointed out clusters of people wearing his merch, groups waving pride flags, 
and one specific fan who had been bopping hard 
enough to be noticed by the entire venue.
Sivan played all of “Bloom, ” but added a 
few choice songs from “Blue Neighborhood” that truly encapsulated his narrative of youth and nostalgia. “Heaven, ” “Fools, ” and “Y outh” 
garnered the most enthusiasm from the crowd, 
having been fan favorites for years. 
Groups of friends in front of me swayed to 
the beat as they stood, and couples kissed and softly mouthed along to the words. Not only were these Sivan’s songs, but they detailed an 
experience felt by the audience. Sivan wasn’t just 
performing these songs: He was sharing them. The “Bloom” tour was about more than flowers, 
as Sivan cheekily referenced upon announcing 
the tour. With an incredibly diverse crowd filled with teens, college students, parents, and adults, 
Sivan managed to make the audience feel seen 
and heard both during songs and in between. It represented a celebration of youth, growing up, 
and finding yourself.
—  Jahfreen  Alam
A&E Editorial Assistant
After seeing ZHU’s live performance, 
it’s no wonder that practically every 
show on his DUNE tour is sold out. 
This mysterious man knows how to put on a 
captivating show that is sure to draw in any 
electro house lover. ZHU is definitely someone 
who knows how to make an entrance; suspense and excitement intensified in the crowd with his 
mysteriously enchanting song “Dreams, ” which 
takes almost a minute before the beat drops or lyrics begin. What was only a minute felt like 
an eternity as anticipation built up in the crowd. 
ZHU finally entered the stage dressed in an all-black ensemble, looking ready to commence 
on an adventure in the desert just like his new 
album “RINGOS DESERT” suggests. However, it turned out that ZHU was actually ready to begin 
a journey with his fans.
ZHU’s light show was one for the books. 
His setup was pretty simple, featuring three pyramids faced with video panels, one main one for ZHU and two smaller ones on the 
sides for the musicians. The color scheme of 
his show started off fairly neutral, with a lot of 
black and white imagery and plain white light. This was very reminiscent of his album artwork 
for “THE NIGHTDAY . ” However, as the night 
went on, ZHU’s light show grew into a colorful and mesmerizing experience. While his light 
show was simple when compared to some other 
“ravey” EDM artists, it paired perfectly with his straightforward, perplexing personality and 
matched perfectly with the beats and drops of his 
music.  
One of the most surprising aspects of 
ZHU’s performance was that he had two other artists periodically come out on stage to play live instruments: a saxophonist and an electric 
guitarist. As fantastic as electronic music 
can be on its own, it’s refreshing to hear live instruments included in the electronic world. 
While many songs by electronic dance music artists include live instruments in the studio, they 
are rarely translated onto the stage of a live tour 
performance. These two musicians even had solo 
opportunities, which allowed them to connect with the audience themselves, and showed off 
their true colors and personalities. It was great 
seeing how much ZHU cared for his fellow team members, which was evident by him giving them 
more solo time, more than most lead performers 
usually give their supporting musicians.  
As ZHU finished his final song for the 
night, he left the crowd of enthusiastic listeners yearning for more. After several minutes of eager attendees chanting, “One more song, ” the awe-
inspiring, peculiar ZHU made it out for his last 
and final appearance of the night. ZHU’s love and appreciation for his listeners were apparent by his 
over 10-minute-long encore.
ZHU’s game-changing sound is rocking the 
EDM world. It’s clear that he loves what he does and who he creates his work for. His hour-long set and extended encore made that abundantly clear. 
It’s not often that headliners with two supporting 
acts will perform for so long. A similar sense 
of respect and admiration was evident in his audience. Everyone was singing along to song 
after song without missing a beat or lyric. The 
dedication found in both artist and audience was strong.
For those who have never heard of ZHU but 
love Tame Impala, ZHU’s new song “My Life” on his “RINGOS DESERT” album is worth checking 
out. This song is a collaboration that brings the 
best of both of these artists together into one epic, energetically bubbly sound. If you’re eager to 
join ZHU and his loyal followers on his hypnotic 
journey, check out the track “Cocaine Model. ” It’s a bouncy, upbeat song that will surely have you 
dancing the night away. 
—  Hope  Hoffman-Larson
Contributing WriterThe little blue prince of bedroom pop returns a fter three years with the “Bloom” tour.
On-the-rise EDM artist ZHU brings flashing lights and energetic music to life with a refreshingly hypnotic twist. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  San Diego State University California Coast Credit Union Amphitheater 
Concert Date    October 25, 2018
Location  The Observatory North Park
Concert Date    October 22, 2018Troye Siv an's "Bloom" Tour
Zhu's  "DUNE"  TourPHOTO COURTESY OF GQ.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF GRAMMY .COMCB
CAA&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
With moving performances, an unforgettable soundtrack, and a true story, “Bohemian Rhapsody” adeptly shares the life and music of Freddie 
Mercury to a new generation of rock ‘n roll enthusiasts. 
“We Are the Champions. ” “I 
Want to Break Free. ” “We Will Rock You.” “Killer 
Queen. ” “Don’t Stop Me Now. ” These are a mere handful of Queen’s most iconic songs, and make up just a fraction of the unforgettable soundtrack to “Bohemian Rhapsody. ” Starring 
Rami Malek as Freddie Mercury, this film 
takes audiences behind the scenes of one the most legendary bands of all time and provides an unprecedented personal glimpse into the turbulent life of its lead singer. It is 
an inspiring, yet ultimately tragic story that is 
sure to leave audience members smiling and singing through their tears. 
The film opens with glimpses of Freddie 
Mercury getting ready for a concert, with the song “Somebody to Love” blasting. As soon as Freddie steps onstage, the plot flashes back years prior, when he was still known as Farrokh Bulsara. At that time, he was still 
living at home with his family following their 
emigration from Zanzibar. It is evident from their first interactions that there is a distinct tension between Farrokh and his father (Ace 
Bhatti) due to their differing lifestyles. One 
fateful night, Farrokh goes out to a bar where he meets two members of a band called Smile: Brian May (Gwilym Lee) and Roger Taylor (Ben Hardy). Farrokh begins to go by 
“Freddie, ” and joins their band. After gaining 
its final band member, John Deacon (Joseph Mazzello), the group relabel itself as Queen. 
As the band gains momentum and fame, 
Freddie gradually transforms into the singer and celebrity that audiences today know and love. His style becomes more glamorous; he begins to speak with more confidence about himself and the band and he legally changes his name to Freddie Mercury. As time goes on, he also begins to take some daring risks, most notably seen in his persistence to get 
the band’s “ A Night at the Opera” album 
produced exactly the way they wanted it. This was the album that introduced the infamous and titular song “Bohemian Rhapsody, ” which 
surprisingly flopped when first released. 
Despite this fact, the film adeptly examines the passion and story behind the lyrics of “Bohemian Rhapsody” so that viewers will never be able to listen to it the same way again.
The second half of the movie, however, 
takes a more serious and emotional turn. Freddie is surrounded by those who love him and those who wish only to manipulate him 
and is seemingly unable to tell the difference 
between the two. Suddenly, his personal life and the struggles he experiences while trying to discover his sexuality are thrust into the public eye. He begins to turn to 
different sources of comfort, ranging from 
reliance on trusted individuals to substance abuse. All the while, Freddie and the band continue to perform, creating some of their 
most renowned hits. This portion of the 
film contains the most heart-wrenching performances, especially Malek’s portrayal of a distraught and lonely Freddie, and each of the band members’ reactions as concerned 
friends. It is undeniable that these actors 
worked hard to appear naturally close with each other, and in these tear-jerking moments, their efforts paid off. Freddie considered his 
fellow bandmates to be family, and the film is 
peppered with instances that reflect that. 
In terms of acting, it is clear that Malek is the 
strongest actor in the film. The way his whole persona shifts from scene to scene, depending on if he is portraying a young Farrokh or an aging, lonely Freddie, right down to his posture and voice intonations, is magnificent. 
Yet, his gripping performance results in each 
of his fellow actors coming off as supporting characters, even when they are supposed to play major roles as well. For instance, Freddie’s 
girlfriend and lifelong friend Mary Austin 
(Lucy Boynton) appears throughout the film as a supportive force, not to mention as the inspiration behind the Queen song “Love of My Life. ” However, her character is only 
defined through her experiences with Freddie, 
so while viewers may pity or identify with her point of view, all empathy is ultimately directed back toward him. The rest of the 
members of Queen are consistently portrayed 
as loving, supportive, and hilarious friends, but beyond that their personal details are virtually unknown. Even Freddie’s male partners remain underdeveloped except for 
the fact that one of them is attributed to the 
film’s only antagonistic role. In the end, the only character the audience feels emotionally connected to is Freddie, and while that is 
effective for revealing his story, viewers will 
feel a sense of longing to know the other characters better. 
Despite this, the film’s style and focal 
points illustrate that the end goal of this movie 
is in fact to share Freddie’s story and how 
music was such an integral part of his life. There are numerous sequences depicting the band creating its most famous hits, including 
“Bohemian Rhapsody” and “We Will Rock 
You ,”  w it h  m any  m ore  s h ow i n g  h ow  t h e  b an d performed in concert. Throughout each of these scenes, Freddie is shown interacting with the crowd passionately, clearly singing to them instead of just at them. The true cinematic masterpiece of the film is undoubtedly the portrayal of the 1985 “Live Aid” concert. 
“Live Aid” was one of the biggest showcases 
of music artists ever, acting as a charity event to elicit donations for hunger relief in Africa, and Queen’s performance there was — in one 
word — epic. “Bohemian Rhapsody” portrays 
their full “Live Aid” show, capturing Freddie’s onstage perspective as well as footage from the crowd’s position. Viewers are left feeling as if they really are there, experiencing Freddie’s 
performance firsthand. Listening to the music 
in conjunction with this scene makes the energy of the concert palpable. What’s more, at this part in the film, viewers will know 
the history behind the songs Freddie sings, 
granting each lyric with a deeper meaning and emotional impact. 
Overall, “Bohemian Rhapsody” is an 
impassioned film that exhibits how unifying 
music really is and the role it can play in both 
self-expression and self-discovery. Even if viewers aren’t familiar with Freddie Mercury or Queen’s music, their stories are inspiring 
nonetheless. Freddie showed the world that it 
was okay to be a little ridiculous at times, as long as you ultimately don’t lose yourself in the process. This film is a tribute to that ideal, and his legacy will continue to live through 
his music, providing a voice for generations 
to come.
 
—  daisy  scott
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
bohemian  rhapsody
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Bryan Singer 
Starring  Rami Malek, Ben Hardy, Joseph Mazzello, Gwilym Lee, Lucy Boynton, 
Allen Leech, Mike Myers
Release Date  November 2, 2018
Rated  PG-13CA-
Happy
Halloween!LIFESTYLE         THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Creeping it Real: A College Student's Guide to Halloween 
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor
Oct. 3 is a favorite day for many children, 
and for good reason: Who doesn’t love getting 
to stay out late for free candy? Unfortunately, college students fall in this awkward limbo 
between childhood and adulthood — too old 
to trick or treat, but still too young to give up Halloween fun. Here are a few ways to channel 
that spooky spirit. 
1. Have a movie night 
What better way to spend the scariest 
day of the year than with a movie marathon? 
Family-friendly movies include “Hocus Pocus, ” “Halloweentown, ” or “Casper. ” For those who 
aren’t scared of a little gore, try “ A Nightmare 
on Elm Street,” “Carrie,” or “Halloween.” Horror fans can go back to classics like “The 
Shining, ” “The Conjuring, ” or “The Ring. ” 
If you’re not in the movie mood, try to find Halloween-themed episodes of your favorite 
TV show. 
2. Throw a pumpkin-carving party
Nothing screams Halloween like a jack-
o’-lantern. Head to a pumpkin patch to find 
the perfect gourd and — after the compulsory Instagram shots — pick up some tools from 
your nearest grocery store. Drawing a design on the pumpkin is always helpful, but also feel 
free to freehand — er, freecarve. Don’t throw 
the innards away either; place the pumpkin seeds on a tray and throw them in the oven for 
a few minutes for a quick snack. 
3. Find some haunted happenings
San Diego has no shortage of ghostly 
gatherings. Try the Ghosts and Gravestones 
Frightseeing Tour”= for a taste of some local history with the El Campo Santo Cemetery 
and Whaley House Museum. If you can’t make 
it to Halloween Horror Nights at Universal Studios, try The Haunted Hotel in the Gaslamp 
or The Haunted Trail in Balboa Park. For a 
more immersive experience, Savage House or the Star-Fright Haunted Theatre have good 
options. 
4. Make some wicked treats 
These can range anywhere from dirt cups 
to pumpkin pie. However, sugar cookies are a 
Halloween staple. Pillsbury sugar cookies are easy and quick, but those who have more time 
can find many recipes online. Buy Halloween-
themed cookie cutters and invite some friends over to decorate for a sweet night. 
Happy haunting! 
When I was four years old, I vividly 
remember waking up in the middle of the 
night and crying. I was terrified of the dark. 
I didn’t know why, but the idea of not seeing where I was or knowing what was happening terrified me. This led to me running off to 
my parents’ room several times to make sure 
nothing was coming out to get me. My parents got tired of this routine and found a solution. 
The next day, my dad brought a huge pack 
of glow-in-the-dark stars, planets, and sea creatures. We spent all day with my brother 
throwing them all over the walls and ceiling, 
getting covered in double-sided tape in the process. So that night, instead of trembling 
in fear before I went to bed, I eagerly turned 
the lights off and stared in wonder. My dad also gave me a flashlight and told me, “ Always 
bring light with you wherever you go. ”
While I did not turn out to be the next 
Mae Jameson like my dad wanted, (for some reason, he was convinced one of me or my 
siblings would be an astronaut), I promised him to always bring light with me. This led to 
my obsessive glow-in-the-dark collection and 
the numerous flashlights in my childhood home. It seems like such a silly thing to 
do, but when it’s hurricane season on the 
East Coast, rest assured that the Duprey household is never dark. At the time, I took 
his words literally I like to think I use them 
metaphorically as well. As I grew up, I slowly started to realize that, just like my bedroom, 
the world can be very dark and scary. I 
grew up watching buildings fall, and people mourn loved ones. I learned, though, that it 
is the people who bring light during these dark times and that remind you that there is 
nothing to be scared of. Whatever life throws 
at you, they will be there to help you see that 
it will be OK. I’ve always been the kind of person that looks on the bright side, and if you ask any of my friends, they will tell you 
of the several ways in which I embarrassingly 
love and support them, no matter what time and place. 
Although I do try to be this light the world 
so desperately needs right now, sometimes I find myself with low batteries, waiting for a 
change that would make me as bright as before. 
It’s at times like this I find myself staring at the ceiling of my apartment, wondering 
where all the glow-in-the-dark stars went 
and how I got so much older. It feels like only yesterday I was throwing double-sided tape at 
my brother. Whenever I have that fear of the 
unknown and uncertainty of what’s going to happen next, I find myself outside staring at 
the real stars that light up the night. It’s what 
I did after my first heartbreak, when I lost a loved one, and when I found myself unsure 
of how to finish college. Something about 
their celestial beauty brings back the calming childlike wonder that I had on that scary 
night. It’s a simple but reassuring constant 
in my life that reminds me of a simpler time. 
While I am no longer afraid of the dark, 
I am scared of the dark, unknown abyss that is my future. I never know what’s going to happen next, but I find myself surrounded 
by those who love me and playing with a 
flashlight in my pocket. Life is dark and scary but always remember to bring light.Who Am I In The Dark?
by Natalie Duprey // Staff Writer
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 9 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Inadequate
by Natasha Vandamme // 
Contributing WriterFear. It can be silly or very real. It can be shared 
by others or just unique to us. It can motivate us, 
and it can hold us back. Everyone has their range 
of fears, from the darkness to being buried alive to being alone. Our fears shape the decisions we 
make and our lives overall. I know my biggest fear 
definitely has. It’s going to sound standard and frankly basic, but my biggest fear is inadequacy — 
not being good enough, failure, rejection.
Inadequacy is a broad term that is more of a 
theme than a specific fear. Ever since I was young, I remember it ruling my decisions and emotions. 
In primary school, on the night before a new 
school year would start, I would be so stressed 
out to the point of tears. I was always worried that 
maybe I didn’t learn enough in first grade to do well in second grade. Yes, I realize how ridiculous 
that is, but it truly scared me. 
To combat this, I always buried myself in my 
studies and participated in everything. I loved music, so I was happy being in choir and theater, 
but I also joined clubs and sports I knew I didn’t enjoy, such as chess club and volleyball. As I 
got older, I became more comfortable with the 
concept of “not doing things I hate, ” but I still overinvolved myself for the sake of seeming, 
well, perfect. I was still in choir and theater, and 
I also did cheer, dance team, pep club, and even ping pong club — though I sucked at ping pong. 
I realize that many high school students do this 
to prepare for college applications, but to me this was proof of self-worth. I had to feel as if I 
was good at every single thing I was involved in 
(besides ping pong club, which I just quit). 
For example, my dance team got a new coach 
for my senior year. This coach was much harder than the last one, and that made me nervous. I felt like I wouldn’t be good enough for the team that 
year, even though I knew she would not cut me. 
Because I was so afraid of failure, I didn’t show up to the last day of tryouts. I would have rather 
chosen not to do it than not have been good 
enough to do it.This “anti-failure” state of mind was especially 
strong regarding academics. To this day, I struggle 
accepting the idea that I cannot always get perfect 
grades. Everyone has heard the saying, “one grade doesn’t define you, ” but that is exactly how I feel. 
A not perfect (or not nearly perfect) grade is a 
statement that I am not good enough. I could explain why I feel this way for another few pages 
if I wanted to, but that isn’t the point. The point 
is that there are others who feel the same way I do. Being afraid of inadequacy has pushed me 
to become successful, but it has also stopped me 
from being happy and doing things I enjoy. I 
may not be the best person to give advice on this 
subject, but I’m definitely better off now than I 
was years ago.
You are your worst critic, and that can’t be 
changed easily by listening to some obscure self-love and confidence podcast. What helped me the most was surrounding myself with loving and 
supporting friends. Without my closest friends, 
I have no idea where I would be. They pushed me to do things that scared me because they saw 
the potential I did not see in myself. Over time, I 
finally began to believe the things they said to me and gained that faith in myself. This goes hand in 
hand with the concept of faking it till you make it. 
When you constantly hear validation from others and tell it to yourself, you believe it. This process 
takes time, but that is OK. Growth is does not 
have to be linear, there are ups and downs, but one day you will realize that the good days outnumber 
the bad, and you carry yourself with a confidence 
that’s real. You only do things you’re passionate about and do well in school because you want to 
learn, not because you want to be perfect. 
We all have our phobias, but it’s the real-life 
everyday fears that are truly haunting. It is easier said than done, but do not let the fear of failure or 
not being good enough stop you from living life. Take that step toward doing and feeling better, 
and reach out to friends for help. Know that you 
are good enough and have faith.
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ROTFL WITH BRENT WEINBACH
& DJ DOUGGPOUNDTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 29 - NOV 4
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE 
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu 
11am
ART AND SOUL: PUMPKIN PAINTING 
- THE ZONE
Celebrate Halloween with your friends by coming 
in The Zone and decorating a spooky (or sweet) pumpkin! All supplies are provided and limited to a first-come, first-serve basis. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu 
5pm
FIRE & ICE: GEOLOGY AND 
VOLCANOLOGY IN REYKJAVIK 
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION - 
STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Interested in studying geology and volcanology in 
breathtakingly beautiful Reykjavik, Iceland? Come to our info session to meet Professor Geoffrey 
Cook, and learn about the program courses, 
excursions, funding options and the application 
process! Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
8pm
ROTFL WITH BRENT WEINBACH & 
DJ DOUGGPOUND - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
Midterms getting to ya? Take a night for yourself 
and come out to ROTFL @ The Loft - a stand up comedy show series! This show features Brent Weinbach and DJ Douggpound. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE INFO 
NIGHT - BEAR ROOM
UCSD SOM Info Night is to discover an 
opportunity in building a relationship with current UCSD medical students. Representatives from SOM and PAMS programs will come to present their amazing medical school mentorship/free advising programs they offer. If you are a pre-health student coming from disadvantaged background, you are highly encouraged to attend this event and apply for their programs to receive various guidance and resources.TUE10.30
THU11.01MON10.29
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE 
coffee, tea and snacks! Come destress with 
University Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall 
quarter! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY: QUICK 
MINESTRONE SOUP - THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo Quick Minestrone 
Soup, and enjoy some FREE samples! Hosted by 
Christine McNamara, an SHS registered 
dietitian, all materials and ingredients will be 
provided. Seating is based on first come, first 
serve.Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCTS ) - ASANTA 
CLASSROOMS 
One of I-House's most popular events, Language 
Conversation Tables (LCTs) creates an 
environment where people can learn another 
language through the art of conversing with a 
fluent speaker. LCTs has successfully helped 
people know more about both the language and 
the accompanied culture, as well as generating 
long-lasting friendships! Please RSVP at 
https://tinyurl.com/Fall18LCT
7pm
ADAM KHALIL GUEST LECTURE - 
SME 149, STRUCTURAL & 
MATERIALS ENGINEERING 
BUILDING 
Adam Khalil(Ojibway) is a filmmaker and artist 
from Sault Ste. Marie, MI; he is currently based 
in Brooklyn, NY. Khalils work subverts traditional 
forms of ethnography through humor, 
transgression, and innovative documentary 
practice. Khalils films and installations have 
been exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art, 
Sundance, Walker Arts Center, e-flux, Microscope 
Gallery (New York), Spektrum (Berlin), Trailer 
Gallery (Sweden), and Carnival of eCreativity 
(Bombay). Khalil graduated from the Film and 
Electronic Arts program at Bard College. He is a 
UnionDocs Collaborative Fellow, Gates 
Millennium Scholar, 2017 Sundance Indigenous 
Opportunity Fellow, and 2018 Sundance Art of 
Non Fiction grant recipient.  Contact: 
nlesley@ucsd.edu7pm
LA JOLLA SYMPHONY & CHORUS - 
YOUNG PEOPLE'S CONCERT 
A fun and informative introduction to the 
symphony! Conductor Steven Schick and orchestra perform annotated excerpts from the season-opening concert. Free Event-reservations required. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
7pm
KAWAMURA PIANOS PROJECT - 
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
EXPERIMENTAL THEATER 
Mari Kawamura is a concert pianist whose 
curiosity and wide-ranging interests have taken her in many directions. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
7pm
LA JOLLA SYMPHONY & CHORUS - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Our 64th season asks questions about lineage: 
Where do we come from? How does the music of our past inform our understanding of the future? We begin with Lineage, a piece by the young Canadian composer Zosha de Castri, who recalls how her grandmothers tales shaped her own sense of being Canadian. Stravinskys Petrushka was inspired by his memories of Russian Shrovetide fairs, in all their color and excitement. Finally, everything on the planet began with water, and in celebration, Music Director Steven Schick gives up his baton to solo in Tan Duns Water Concerto, with Michael Gerdes conducting. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.eduFRI11.02
7:30pm
LA JOLLA SYMPHONY & CHORUS - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
We begin with Lineage, a piece by the young 
Canadian composer Zosha de Castri, who recalls how her grandmothers tales shaped her own sense of being Canadian. Stravinskys Petrushka was inspired by his memories of Russian Shrovetide fairs, in all their color and excitement. Finally, everything on the planet began with water, and in celebration, Music Director Steven Schick gives up his baton to solo in Tan Duns Water Concerto, with Michael Gerdes conducting.SAT11.03WED10.31THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST LEVEL 2
11:30am
HALLOWEEN COSTUME CONTEST - 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Enter the Annual UCSD Bookstore Costume 
Contest! DJ, photo booth and lots of spooky fun! 
4 categories to choose from: Funniest, Scariest, 
Most Creative and Best Group! Win a $100 Bookstore shopping spree for 1st place on all 4 categories and a $50 Bookstore shopping spree for 2nd! And don't miss our monster sale! Save up to 50% on select items. Also 10/31 only, save 
an additional $10 off $50 or more, even on 
electronics and our clearance items! Contact: 
marketing@bookstore.ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & 
SALT AT HOME PLATE 
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at 
Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while 
attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
6pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: A 
QUIET PLACE - PRICE CENTER THEATER
If they hear you, they haunt you. University 
Centers is bringing the haunt to UCSD with this spooktacular screening of A Quiet Place. Come celebrate Halloween with us at Price Theater!
6pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS X TEDX 
PRESENTS: BEHIND THE MASK - THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Come out to hear a variety of Ted Talks from both 
students and various professionals! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
MARY SHELLEYS FRANKENSTEIN: 
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Join the UC San Diego Library as we celebrate the 
bicentennial of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein! Published in 1818, the classic novel is considered by many to be the first piece of science fiction. Submit short works of prose or poetry that are no more than 200 words. Youll have the opportunity to read your work or have someone read it aloud for you!  Please email your work to spaulson@ucsd.edu by or before Oct. 29 and let us know if you plan to read aloud. Enjoy experimental libations at our refreshment laboratory and eerie music from our haunting house band! This event is free and open to the public. Contact: spaulson@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
HAPPY HALLOWEEN
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Centers of activity
5. Toots one’s own horn10. Allowing a draft
14. 19th-century novel set on Tahiti
15. Water again
16. Type of slipper17. Political lackey19. Give __: okay
20. Johannesburg-born links star
21. Birds that sometimes perch on the 
backs of grazing animals
23. Goes out for an hour or two?
24. Nerdy type
25. Superman has super ones
28. Needle dropper
31. Anecdotal assortment32. Brawler’s weapons34. Moonshine maker
35. Toon collectibles
37. Nobel Prize category
39. Dog drawn by Jim Davis40. Amsterdam bloom42. Sneak into an institution?44. And whatnot, briefly45. U-2, e.g.47. Ready49. Sum of the parts50. Olympic sport with seven weight 
categories
51. Oprah’s “The Color Purple” costar53. Hushes57. Warning to a pedestrian58. River obstructions60. Having the required skills61. Speck in the sea62. Leave out63. Rundgren of rock64. Yukon carriers65. New Jersey NBAersDOWN
 1. Actor Rob2. “Rubáiyát” poet3. Gnawed veggie
4. First-aid kit staple
5. Approaches stealthily
6. Projection room stacks7. Nocturnal hunters8. Like early hours
9. Scattered
10. Italian after-dinner drink
11. Stereotypical wedding figures12. Loads13. Wine list options
18. Got wind of
22. Bank job units
24. ‘70s hot spot25. Covenants26. Outdo
27. Arkansas-based retailing nickname
28. “Positive thinking” advocate
29. Privileged group30. Campaign poster word33. Nancy Drew creator36. Drew from a tank, as gas38. Soldier’s shoulder pieces41. Alka-Seltzer sound43. Like venerated statesmen46. Perps’ stories48. “A Tale of Two Cities” city50. Played some jazz51. “I beg your pardon?”52. Vagabond53. “Everything must go” event54. Arrived55. Give off56. Bygone fleet, briefly59. Au pair’s sch. courseHOUSING
1818 McKee St $3250. This two-bedroom 
and two-bathroom home is located in the Mission Hills neighborhood in San Diego. It is a mere six-minute walk from the Green Line at the Washington St Station stop.... ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
3727 & 3737 Grim Ave. $2395. Spacious 
2 bedroom unit in the heart of North Park - MUST SEE! In the Heart of North Park. Torrey Pines Property Management 
proudly offers this beautifully updated 
2br-2ba residence with new paint, plank 
flooring…  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
3520 3rd Ave. #207 $1895. One Bedroom 
Hillcrest near Scripps Mercy and UCSD 
Hospital - Large One Bedroom One 
Bath, Tiled entry/kitchen/dining. Granite 
Countertops in Kitchen and Bath. Underground parking, elevator, inter -
com, pool, on-site laundry. SORRY, NO PETS...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationFURNITURE
Modern Chic Side Table (white). Your hunt for the perfect accent table ends right here This charming white lacquer 
table has long legs a single drawer and 
classic style that complements any room. 
Its the perfect accessory to place next 
to your bed your sofa and more. ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Two T sectional Sofa. Wyckes Furniture 
Southern California locations Los 
Angeles Gridley rd Cerritos CA ()-Orange 
County Talbert ave Fountain Valley CA 
()-San Diego North Miramar rd San Diego 
CA ()-San Diego South University ave San 
Diego CA ()- DAY BUYOUT OPTION NO 
CREDIT NEEDED FINANCING Sectional 
. Delivery most areas or pick up. ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
New Sofa- $40 down. *mattress* I have 
couple NEW Sofa’s left from a truckload I bought. Name Brand! Must sell TODAY. .. Call me (Gigi) if you can get 1 today. *** I can do $40, 90 days No Interest. Delivery possible. Call or Text me (Gigi) at *** Check out our five ...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
52CM FOUNDRY CHILKOOT! FULL SRAM RED! TITANIUM! ENVE FORK (Riverside)Hello, Up for sale is a lightly used 52cm FOUNDRY CHILKOOT titanium road bike. Bike has only been used a handful of times due to me having too many bikes (like many of us) The bike comes with full SRAM RED 22 and SRAM FORCE 22 BRAKES. $2,500 OBO ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2010 SE Quadangle 20” Freestyle. Mint 
Condition (Escondido). Showroom con -
dition bought for my kid after I bought him a dirt bike so maybe 2 mis on it. Black with red. Grips and pedals show no wear. Also comes with Landing Gear Forks not shown. Trade or looking for a 24” BMX bike jump type bike. In Escondido ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mens Aluminum 26” Shaft drive Nexus 3 
speed. Great condition (Escondido) 26” Dekra Shaft drive bike. Aluminum frame. No messy chain or adjustments to deal with. Nexus three speed. In Escondido ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTEDSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
With the 2018 MLB World Series 
coming to a close, it’s time to tie a 
nice little bow around the year. The 
last step before finally closing the 
book on the season is naming all the award winners for the season. Unlike other sports, the MLB gives 
out two MVP awards — one for 
each conference. Following that same pattern, this means there are two of every award being given out. Although there are many awards to 
go around relative to other sports, 
deciding on winners is still a very contentious process. There are still 
many debates about which players 
are the most deserving.
National League MVP: Christian 
Ye l i c h
Back in January, when Christian 
Yelich was traded from the Miami Marlins to the Milwaukee Brewers, 
everybody expected that Yelich would have a good season. A fter 
all, he had been a good player in a “pitcher-friendly” park in Miami, and Milwaukee is known as a place where hitters can flourish. 
However, nobody expected the 
offensive explosion that would come 
from Yelich’s bat once he went to 
Milwaukee. Yelich not only raised his level to match his peers but also 
surpassed them, turning a good 
Brewers team into a series contender. Going into September, the Brewers sat about five games behind the 
Chicago Cubs in the National League 
Central. Yelich then took the reins 
of the team and catapulted them past the Cubs, leading the Brewers to the best record in the National League. In September, Yelich batted an astounding .370 batting average with a 1.300 OPS, 10 home runs, and 
34 runs batted in. This exceptional 
final month of the season all but 
sealed the MVP for Y elich. He came 
only a few RBIs short of capturing 
the NL Triple Crown, a feat that 
has not been accomplished since Joe Medwick’s stellar season in 1937. During the season, Yelich managed to hit for a cycle twice, 
one of the most impressive feats a 
hitter can accomplish — and Yelich did it twice. He finished the year 
leading the NL in home runs (36), 
batting average (.326), OPS (1.000), 
slugging (.598), and total bases (343). All of these stats — plus the fact that he spearheaded the Brewers into the National League Champion 
Series — makes the choice for NL 
MVP an easy one.
American League MVP: Mookie 
Betts
Every year in the American 
League, the MVP race comes down to a “Mike Trout vs X” contest. Every year, a new candidate rises 
to rival the best player in the game 
for AL MVP . This year, that player 
was Mookie Betts. Usually, these candidates fall short of stealing the 
crown from Trout, but Betts’s case 
looks strong. He led the Boston Red Sox, the best team in the league, to 108 wins while Trout’s Anaheim Angels finished fourth place in 
their own division with a meager 80 wins. Granted, Trout and Betts can only in fluence a team so much, 
but when one of the teams finishes 
with the best record in the history of the team’s franchise and was led by that player, it’s hard to say the player was not partially responsible. Also, it’s not as if Trout’s Angels were a 
bad team; they had talent and were 
expected to be playo ff contenders. 
However, they were ultimately one of the most disappointing teams 
in the MLB this season. Beyond 
the team in fluence, Betts simply 
outplayed Trout during the season. He bested Trout in runs, hits, singles, doubles, triples, RBIs, stolen bases, 
fewer strikeouts, batting average, 
and slugging. Although Trout did hit more home runs, took more walks, and plays a more physically 
demanding position, Betts just beat 
him in too many integral categories to warrant giving Trout the MVP . Betts also did all of this while playing four fewer games than Trout. Trout 
fans will clamor and claim Betts is 
only getting recognized because his team was better. However, this year Betts was statistically better and 
should be the AL MVP .
NL Cy Y oung: Jacob deGrom
This one is about as simple as it 
gets: Jacob deGrom was simply the 
best pitcher in the National League 
from Game 1 through Game 162. DeGrom’s most impressive stat this year was his sparkling 1.70 ERA, 
a mark that has not been reached 
since Zach Greinke’s pitching display in 2015. The next best ERA 
in the National League this year was by Aaron Nola, whose ERA sits half 
a run higher at 2.37. Not to say that 
ERA (or any one category) is the only critical stat for pitchers, but when one pitcher leads an important category by so much, it is easy to see that they were the best. A pitcher’s ultimate job is run suppression and is measured by ERA; Jacob deGrom was by far the best at it 
in the National League. DeGrom 
also measured well in other stats: In the NL, he finished second in 
wins above replacement , second in 
walks and hits per innings pitched, 
third in hits per 9 innings, second in strikeouts per 9 innings pitched, and second in innings pitched. Other NL pitchers like Max Scherzer and 
Aaron Nola still had spectacular 
seasons, but deGrom led by so much (in possibly the most important pitching stat) and was near the top 
of every other category. As a result, 
he will be crowned the 2018 NL Cy You n g .
AL Cy Y oung: Blake SnellThe AL Cy Young award is not as 
easy to call as the National League’s. Where Jacob deGrom led all NL pitchers for the entire season, there doesn’t look to be a consensus AL 
Cy Young pick for the season. At 
the beginning of the year, experts were saying Luis Severino was the frontrunner. Then, in the summer, 
the narrative shi fted to Chris Sale. 
Now, at the end of the year, names like Justin Verlander and Trevor Bauer are being thrown around. 
This is an award where five different 
people may give five di fferent 
answers as to who should be the AL 
Cy Young. However, a fter mulling 
over many di fferent stats, I believe 
the Tampa Bay southpaw, Blake Snell, should be the AL Cy Young. Snell led the American League in WAR, wins, ERA, and h/9. What do these stats mean? To sum up, Snell allowed the fewest amount of runs per outing, allowed the fewest amount of hits per outing, won the most amount of games, 
and (by WAR) was considered 
the most valuable pitcher among replacements level arms. Snell was the best while he was in the game, 
which sounds great, but where he 
stumbles is in the total volume of stats. His gross amount of innings are not as much as some other pitchers, as he finished outside of the top 10 
in total number of innings pitched and total number of strikeouts. This 
is where he will lose some votes to people like Justin Verlander, Gerrit 
Cole, and Corey Kluber. There is an 
argument to be made by attributing 
Snell’s exceptional ERA to fewer innings played, but where this argument falls flat is the fact that 
Snell is not in control of when he is taken out of the game. Watching the Tampa Bay Rays this year, Snell would be carving up the other team 
only for his manager to take him 
out in the fifth or sixth inning. This 
hurt the total volume of stats Snell could have gotten and limited him 
from running away with the reward. 
Also, Snell coming out early clearly did not hurt his team’s chances to win because he finished with more 
wins (21) than anybody in the MLB. Ultimately, Snell can only control the innings he was allotted to pitch and, in those the innings he played, he was better than any other pitcher 
and should be the AL Cy Young.
With the World Series winding down, decisions for the MLB MVP and Cy Young are just around the corner. 
Find out who might take the American and National League awards.
LUCAS ARMSTRONG  LQARMSTR@ucsd.edu
BY lucas armstrong
STAFF WRITERPHOTO COURTESY OF LESLEY JUAREZ
MLB Award Predictions16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Chico State (1st Round)
at Santa ClaraSemifinals at RIMAC FieldSemifinals at RIMAC Fieldat CSU Dominguez Hills UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Soccer
M Water Polo
W Soccer
M Soccer
W Volleyball6PM3PM
11AM
4:30PM
7PM10/30
11/111/211/211/2
LA JOLLA, Calif.—On a special 
day in La Jolla at Canyonview 
Aquatic Center, the UC San Diego 
men’s water polo team delivered a 
come-from-behind win to honor its six outstanding seniors. The tenth-
ranked Tritons held on to an 8–6 
victory over the No. 13 Princeton 
University Tigers to secure a Senior Day triumph. Senior Kevin Asplund came 
through clutch in his final game at 
home, contributing 1 goal for UCSD to tie the game at the end of the third quarter. Three other Tritons, 
redshirt junior Kacper Langiewicz, junior Noah Carniglia, and redshirt sophomore Calder Hilde-Jones, also nailed the back of the net once a 
piece. 
The Tigers held a 4–2 lead in the 
first half but UCSD bounced back 
following the break and continued to answer throughout the rest of 
the game. Sophomore Connor Turnbow-Lindenstadt delivered another great performance, as he has done all year, scoring twice 
when it mattered most. With 5:22 
remaining, Turnbow-Lindenstadt’s goal sealed the game.
Redshirt freshman Konstantin 
Karlov executed well on both off ense 
and defense, tallying 2 goals, one which came with one second le ft 
on the clock, and 2 steals. Redshirt junior Jack Turner was stellar in the cage once again, totaling 7 saves and 2 steals. In addition, junior Skyler Munatones collected 2 assists and 1 steal.
UCSD outshot Princeton 31–18 
and was 50 percent (4–8) in power play opportunities. A 4-goal third quarter for the Tritons and a shutout 
of Princeton in the fourth quarter 
would be what made the di fference. 
The Tritons improved their 
overall record to 14–5 as well as a strong 8–2 at home.
UCSD will take on Santa 
Clara University on the road on Thursday, Nov. 1 at 3 p.m. With one 
more regular-season competition 
remaining, the Tritons will look 
to head into the Western Water Polo Association Championship Tournament with the momentum of 
a three-game winning streak.
Men's Water PoloNo. 10 
Tritons Walk 
Away With a 
Competitive 
Win on 
Senior Day
UCSD edges out Princeton in a 
8–6 victory at home.PHOTO COURTESY O F DERRICK TUSKAN
BY madeline  lewis
senior Staff Writer
madeline  lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu