San Diego Superior Court Judge 
John S. Meyer ruled in favor of the 
City of San Diego on Aug. 10 in the 
lawsuit of Revelle junior Mariana 
Flores against the city, UC San Diego, the UC Board of Regents, and other plainti ffs for injuries she 
sustained during a protest that began on campus the night of President Trump’s election. Flores, who filed 
her suit in 2017 for personal injury 
and property damages, was hit by 
a car when the protest spread out onto Interstate-5, leaving her with a fractured leg, crushed pelvis, and other serious injuries. The decision was the result of 
Meyer sustaining a demurrer filed by 
the city which stated that although the factual basis for Flores’ claim was valid, her attorney’s argument 
against the city was irrelevant or 
invalid. In ruling against Flores and in favor of the city, Meyer held that the City did not need to pay any money in punitive damages, 
attorneys fees, or any other costs. 
According to the original 
complaint filed by Flores’ attorney 
Gene Sullivan on Nov. 8, 2017, Sullivan argued that the city was at 
fault because it, along with UCSD and the UC Regents, failed to control the protest and did not properly warn the demonstrators of or protect them from the dangers of entering 
the freeway. The city was also 
alleged to be responsible for Flores’ 
injuries because of “negligence and dangerous condition of public 
property. ”
Sullivan filed an amended 
complaint a few weeks a fter the city 
was dismissed from the case. In 
the amended complaint, the list of 
defendants excludes the City and 
County of San Diego, and lists the State of California’s Department of Transportation where it previously 
included the State of California as a 
whole.  
Elaborating in their argument VOLUME 52, ISSUE 1  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 1, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
New Parking 
Limit Placed on La Jolla Scenic 
The two-hour resitriction is intended 
to prevent students from parking along 
the street all day while on campus.  
Parking on the east side of 
North La Jolla Scenic Drive has 
been limited in certain places to two 
hours on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 
5 p.m. after local La Jolla officials approved the restrictions over the summer to prevent UC San Diego 
students from parking along the 
street for the duration of the school day. Along with the dirt lot at Torrey Pines Gliderport and the street parking on Villa La Jolla Drive, 
North La Jolla Scenic Drive is one 
of the few locations within walking distance of campus where students have been able to park for free. 
First approved by the La Jolla 
Traffic and Transportation Board on June 20 and then unanimously ratified by the La Jolla Community Planning Association on July 5, the 
restricted section of North La Jolla 
Scenic Drive spans between Scenic Place and Sugarman Drive. The decision was then passed on for 
implementation to the City of San 
Diego, which did not respond to requests for information on when the new two-hour limit took effect.
According to a summary of the 
June LJT&T meeting by the La Jolla Light, the measure was put forth by local resident Carol Hernstad, who cited “[UCSD] students 
parking along the street all day and 
speeding along it to get to and from the spaces” as justification for the parking change.
LJT&T Board Chairperson Dave 
Abrams confirmed that the reason for LJT&T’s approval of the two-hour restriction was to prevent students from leaving their cars on 
the street the entire time they are 
on campus.
“Our Board considered the 
resident’s complaint that parking in front of her home and nearby was 
unavailable primarily due to student 
occupation basically the entire day, ” Abrams told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The Board agreed that a reasonable 
time restriction was appropriate to allow for resident visitors, delivery vehicles, service workmen and others, and voted accordingly. ”
Much of the street parking that 
is not directly in front of private residents is still unrestricted, however, with the east-side space 
between Sugarman Drive and La 
Jolla Village Drive and certain portions of the west side of La Jolla Scenic Drive still open for all-day parking. 
Speaking on behalf of A.S. 
Council, off-campus Senator Kelly Morris objected to the new parking measures and noted that such laws 
UCSD
BY lauren  holt
 Managing Editor
Judge Rules in Favor of  City in Lawsuit by UCSD Student Struck by Car
British band, the W ombats, perform at the San Diego House of Blues on Sept. 28.   Photo by Francesca Hummler // UCSD Guardian  
Recent developments in California politics 
come as welcome news and a landmark 
success for California Public Interest 
Research Group, the student organization which 
has been campaigning hard for clean energy 
commitments from the state and from the UC 
system. On Sept. 4, the UC Office of the President announced new goals to make all 10 campuses and 
five medical centers to be exclusively reliant on 
renewable energy by the year 2025. About a week 
later, Gov. Jerry Brown signed SB 100 into law, 
committing California to similar standards to be met by 2045.
Sophie Haddad, statewide board chairperson 
for CALPIRG, says that a major push for this commitment came from student involvement. 
About 20,000 signatures across all 10 campuses 
were collected by CALPIRG, who have been pushing for renewable energy. The group has 
also been meeting with sustainability directors, 
chancellors, and regents in the Universities of California. 
“Climate change is here and we are the first generation that has to live our lives with the impacts, and we are the last generation that has a 
chance to do something about it, ” a statement from 
Haddad reads on CALPIRG’s press release. “So for the past two years we have been working to bring 
100-percent clean energy to our campuses, our city 
and our state. ”
According to Haddad, SB100 “is a promise to 
my generation that we can have a healthier, greener, and more meaningful future. If the world’s fifth-
biggest economy can transition to clean electricity, 
so can other states and cities, putting the United States back on the world map as a climate leader. ”
The UC announcement is an expansion of the 
goals laid out by the Carbon Neutrality Initiative, started by president Napolitano in 2015. The 
initiative allows a council of undergraduate and 
graduate students to help advise the school on how to best achieve carbon neutrality, or net zero 
carbon emissions. A significant tactic in achieving 
this is the push for renewable energy dependency. 
With this goal, the UC system joins other schools 
such as Boston University, Cornell University, and By Tyler Faurot      News EditorUC SYSTEM
UC System Commits to 100 Percent Renewable Energy by 2025PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
STATE OF 
THE ARTS
The Guardian spoke 
with AFSCME about 
the new school year 
in the context of their 
ongoing struggle for 
equality.
LSAT  IN  OTHER  LANGUAGES
SUMMER  HIGHLIGHTSAccepting  Diversity
The  best  media  of  the  seasonOpinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “The FAFSA’s 
approach creates 
a system that 
illogically distributes 
financial aid in a 
manner less based on 
financial need and 
more based on the 
marital status of a 
student’s parents. ”A&E,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
 H 89 L 69
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 63
TUESDAY
H 76 L 66
THURSDAY
H 73 L 62
CRIME RATES...............2
NEWSROOMS...............4
SUMMER HITS..............8
PRODUCTIVITY ...........11
SOCCER WINS...........15COMMUNITY
Suzanne Golshanara
 PAGE 4The judge sustained a demurrer filed by the City of San Diego, leading the plainti ff to amend her complaint.
BY Tyler Faurot
News Editor 
See LAWSUIT,  page 3 See PARKING,  page 3See CALPIRG,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TIMMY TRITON By  Andrew Diep
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianAccording to the 2018 Annual 
Security & Fire Safety Report 
released in a campuswide email on 
Sept. 28, UC San Diego saw an 
increase in the number of rapes and fondling incidents, as well as arson and domestic violence from 
previous years. 
Rape has gone up from 10 in 
2016 to 12 in 2017, and fondling 
from 8 to 11. In 2016, 5 domestic violence incidents were reported, 
and doubled in 2017 to 10. Dating 
violence also increased from 10 to 13 incidents between 2016 and 2017.
The report also shows a decrease in the number of burglaries and 
robberies. Burglary, defined as an 
unlawful entry into a structure to commit fraud or theft, decreased from 20 to 15. Robbery, the taking 
of anything of value by force or 
threat, dropped from 5 incidents in 2016 to just 2 in 2017. 
Aggravated assaults, or unlawful 
attacks with the intent to cause 
severe bodily harm, went down 
from 8 incidents to 5.
The report, published at the end 
of each year, is mandated by the 
Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus 
Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act. The Clery Act requires universities and colleges participating in federal financial aid programs to disclose crime statistics 
and other security information by 
Oct. 1 of each year. Each report is mandated to display crime statistics for the three years prior. 
In 1994 the Clery Act was 
amended to require specific statistics about dating violence, domestic abuse, and stalking after the passage of the Violence Against 
Women Act.
With regards to hate crimes, one 
intimidation incident was reported 
for 2017 based on sexual orientation 
bias, compared to 2016, which had 
three reported hate crimes, and 2015, which had none. 
Liquor law arrests dropped from 
59 to only 5 between 2016 and 2017, and referrals decreased from 
908 to 833. Drug abuse arrests also 
decreased from 31 to 25, but the number of referrals went up from 199 to 222.
This report is only a 
representation of incidents that were reported to campus police, and does not accurately reflect every event that happens on campus.
2018 Annual Fire & Safety Report Shows Increase in Rapes and Incidents of  Fondling, Decrease in Theft
Liquor law arrests dropped significantly between 2016 and 2017, but liquor law and drug abuse referrals only saw moderate changes.UCSD
BYTyler Faurot 
NEWS EDITOR
Tyler Faurot tfaurot@ucsd.edu
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIANThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. We all just did squats in the office and now the Guardian is over.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler  Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization EditorArt Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
will likely not be effective.
“Limiting the parking here to 2 
hours will increase the stresses of 
other common off-campus parking 
areas and disproportionately impact UCSD students and staff who cannot afford hundreds of dollars 
to park on campus, ” Morris wrote 
in an email to the Guardian. “The 
policy itself is misguided; if the idea 
is to prevent students parking in 
neighborhoods, this will just force 
folks to park further into residential areas. ”
Morris also added that students 
are not solely responsible for the congestion along La Jolla Scenic Drive.
“It was very apparent from their 
meeting on this issue, from the La 
Jolla Light article, that it was a blatant offensive act against students, 
who were called out specifically, 
despite the fact that many staff also 
rely on the limited street parking near campus, ” Morris said. “I’ d also like to remind them that no one at 
UCSD would voluntarily park in 
their neighborhoods, a far distance from any campus buildings, unless they really had to. ”
Parking on campus also became 
more restricted over the summer as the construction of the Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood and other new additions to the 
campus forced certain lots to close. Morris: This Restriction Will Not Change Much
▶ PARKING, from page 1
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.eduColorado State University, who have 
also committed to using 100-percent 
renewable energy.
In laying out new goals, the 
UCOP statement declares that the UC campuses will work to reduce 
their energy use per square foot by 2 percent each year. New buildings 
and renovations after 2019 will not use on-site fossil fuel combustion for 
space and water heating. In addition 
to banning the use of styrofoam, 
each campus will reduce municipal solid waste by as much as 30 percent 
by 2030, in order to divert waste 
from landfills. 
The statement argues that UC 
campuses are “living laboratories for climate change and sustainability solutions. ” 
According to UCOP, notable 
changes could come as early as the 
end of the year. 
“By the end of 2018, UC’s 
internal utility company will be providing 100-percent clean 
electricity to the campuses that 
are able to buy from it, ” UCOP 
spokesperson said in a statement 
to the Guardian. “Campuses unable 
to buy from the internal utility due 
to state regulations will look for 
opportunities to buy clean electricity for the same price or lower than 
what they would pay through their 
local utility company. ” 
UC San Diego already purchases 
some electricity from the UC internal utility, but most of the campus’ electricity is supplied by an on-site power plant.
In discussing CALPIRG’s 
goals for the future, Haddad told the Guardian that their priorities 
are shifting toward saving bee 
populations by pushing for a ban on 
specific pesticides, banning harmful 
plastics and tackling hunger and 
homelessness. This fall they are 
focusing on their New Voters 
Project, a youth voter mobilization 
program which aims to increase voter turnout for the elections in 
November.▶ CALPIRG, from page 1
Tyler Faurot    tfaurot@ucsd.eduCALPIRG’s Efforts Were Instrumental in Forming New State Policies
against the Department of 
Transportation, the complaint says that the Department bears 
some responsibility because the 
emergency vehicle that attempted to shut down the freeway did so “inadequately and negligently. ” The 
plainti ff asserts that this allowed the 
driver of the car who hit Flores to maneuver around the emergency vehicle and strike her.
The remainder of the original 
defendants — UCSD, the UC Board of Regents, and driver John Edmund House — are still listed on the updated complaint.
The complaint’s description of 
general negligence asserts that the protest was “organized, maintained and controlled” by UCSD and the UC Regents, who are still listed as defendants in the case. Court documents filed by Sullivan read 
that “the protest continued all over the campus for hours and was never o fficially stopped, 
adequately controlled or refrained 
by the University of California San 
Diego… ”
The Department and the UC 
Regents have both filed demurrers in 
response to the amended complaint. 
In the event that the lawsuit goes to 
a jury trial, the opening procedures will begin on April 26, 2019.State Transportation Listed as a New Defendant
▶ LAWSUIT, from page 1
Tyler Faurot   tfaurot@ucsd.eduwelcome
back
tritons!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
San Diego is a diverse community built on the unique stories of 
its citizens. Having a population of 41.1 percent people of color, it 
would make sense that the makeup of the city would be reflected in 
those who report on it, specifically in publications like The San Diego Union-Tribune. However, this information is publicly unavailable, as the newspaper opted out of participating in the annual Newspaper 
Diversity Survey, highlighting an unfortunate trend of a lack of 
diversity in the American newsroom.
In 2017, the American Society of News Editors released its annual 
results for the Newspaper Diversity Survey looking at women and 
minorities in newsrooms across the United States. The results found 
that, on average, 63 percent of individuals in the newsroom were male and that white people were 25 percent overrepresented in the 
composition of the newsroom compared to their audience.
Diversity must go beyond a surface level approach of just hiring 
more people of color and women. Having a diverse newsroom should 
mean that people are hired to represent a wide variety of experiences 
going beyond one specific marginalization. In doing so, newsrooms 
will be better able to produce content that represents intersecting identities rather than just singular ones. As Margaret Sullivan said in her New York Times editorial, “When the group is truly diverse, 
the nefarious groupthink that makes a publication predictable 
and, at times, unintentionally biased, is much more likely to be diminished.” Reporters who are representative of various aspects of these communities are better able to understand the nuances of 
stories pertaining to their communities, leading to more accurate 
representations of the stories they tell that a journalist from outside of that community simply could never achieve.
Further, having a more diverse newsroom allows stories about 
marginalized communities to be shared in the mainstream. According to Tracie Powell from Poynter, the Trayvon Martin shooting story would not have been pushed into the mainstream had it not been for 
the work of three black reporters. Many news organizations outside of 
the Orlando area were blind to the fact that there was an audience for that type of story. However, after Trymaine Lee, Charles M. Blow, and Ta-Nehisi Coates reported on the incident, the story gained national 
attention, sparking a nationwide conversation on racial injustice. When 
newsrooms have a diverse range of journalists, stories with a more marginalized nuance have a better chance of being covered because the journalists from those intersectional backgrounds can have more 
connections to  stories pertaining to their personal identities.
It’s important to remember that the path to a diverse newsroom can 
take years of work for any given newspaper. However, there are some 
steps newspapers can take to lead toward this goal. The editors at the 
Columbia Journalism Review suggest that newsrooms can promote 
diversity by  reporting on the stories that matter to marginalized communities most, emphasizing the need to keep existing minority 
journalists, and making tangible efforts to eliminate barriers for 
minorities to enter the newsroom, like requirements of unpaid internships, low wages, and a lack of people from marginalized communities holding positions of power within the company.
Most importantly, it is necessary for newsrooms to admit that a lack 
of diversity is a problem they themselves can address. Publications like the Union-Tribune must be transparent with the communities it serves so readers like us can hold them accountable toward all aspects 
of the reporting process, especially when it comes to covering issues 
that dive into diverse community experiences.
That being said, it is ultimately up to both newsrooms and readers 
to begin pushing for diversification. Newspapers can take steps toward 
addressing the inequities that may be within their companies, and 
readers can hold their local papers accountable to diverse practices by demanding transparency throughout all levels of the organization. 
Only then will newspapers like the Union-Tribune be better equipped 
to put an intersectional focus on their stories, making one small, yet significant step closer toward equity in the U.S.
Jacob Sutherland  JASUTHER@gmail.comThe Law School Admission Test 
was born in 1948 out of a need for 
a comprehensive evaluation of the 
skills necessary to succeed in law 
school. The past 70 years have seen 
incredible transformations in the way 
American society structures education 
but a shockingly static admissions 
examination. One of the biggest shifts in higher education in recent years is the increase in people for whom English 
is a second language. Our universities 
are full of students from different 
countries and students that are first 
or second generation, many of whom will go on to pursue a law degree at 
schools throughout the U.S. Given that 
the LSAT is fundamentally a test that 
measures the logic and reasoning skills 
of takers, that we are an increasingly linguistically diverse country, and that 
logic and reasoning transcend language, 
it follows that this extremely important 
test should be offered in most major 
languages in the U.S.
The organization in-charge of 
administering the LSAT, the Law 
School Admission Council, already 
administers one version of the LSAT 
in another language. It offers the test in Spanish but with several pretty major 
caveats. The Spanish version is only 
offered in Puerto Rico, and the scores 
are only accepted at three Puerto Rican 
law schools. The Spanish version is scored differently, but the LSAC has 
indicated that the questions are very 
similar and the scores are comparable. 
One might assume that the reason this 
version is specifically targeted for Puerto Rico is because part of the law 
curriculum at these universities is in 
Spanish, however they allow scores for 
the English LSAT at these universities 
as well. This indicates that they do not use the LSAT as the only measure of 
Spanish proficiency, a fact that is further 
proven because students are required 
to take a second exam to demonstrate 
graduate degree readiness.One of the concerns this raises is 
that in a multilingual LSAT, a high 
score would not reflect a high English 
reading comprehension level. Although 
this is true, the LSAT is fundamentally 
a logic and reasoning exam, and those 
are the skills that should be the center 
focus. Furthermore, if the quality of 
undergraduate preparation in English reading comprehension happens to fall into question, schools can require that 
the essay of the LSAT be written in 
English. This provides a way to keep 
record of the language skills of the 
applicant without involving the logic aspect of the examination. The LSAT 
essay does not factor into scoring, but 
they still get sent out to whichever 
school is receiving the results.
The law school application process 
includes other ways besides the LSAT to measure the English proficiency of 
prospective students. To use this exam 
for measuring language skills then 
becomes an issue of practicality since this distracts from what should be 
the purpose of the LSAT - to evaluate 
reasoning skills. Potentially alienating 
applicants for the convenience of 
admissions officers does a disservice to society as a whole, decreasing the 
amount of diverse and bilingual lawyers.
Some might argue that this is 
creating complications without solving 
any significant problems. That being said, this is an issue not of solving a 
pressing problem but rather of creating 
accessibility and acknowledging the 
diversity of the populations in our 
societies. As much as thinkpieces and educational professionals call for the 
end to the standardized exam, the 
reality is that these are probably going 
to be around for a while, and they 
should provide as many options to their participants as possible. As our 
multilingual population continues to 
grow, it becomes increasingly important 
that the people in charge of navigating 
the legal system reflect these trends.
Lack of Newsroom Diversity Undermines the 
Objective of a Free Press
By: Jacob Sutherland // Sta ff WriterLogic Has 
No Standard 
Language 
and Neither 
Should the 
LSAT
By: Adriana Barrios // Opinion EditorWith the increasingly high 
cost of tuition, financial aid has 
become a necessity for many 
students. What many students may not know is that the amount 
of financial aid they receive may 
vary depending on whether their parents are married or divorced. 
In the case of divorced parents, 
only the parent with primary custody is required to fill out 
the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid. The FAFSA does not include the noncustodial 
parent’s income or assets in any 
calculations it makes regarding a student’s financial aid package, 
even though the incomes of both 
married parents are fully taken into account. Such a policy regarding divorced parents 
allows potentially higher income 
students with divorced parents to get more financial aid than 
they would otherwise be able to 
if they had to show both of their parents’ incomes. The FAFSA’s 
approach creates a system that 
illogically distributes financial aid in a manner less based on 
financial need and more based on 
the marital status of a student’s parents. 
While the FAFSA tends to 
be the primary financial aid application for those attending 
public universities, many private 
schools require students to also fill out the College Scholarship 
Service Profile in order to receive 
financial aid. Unlike the FAFSA, 
the CSS Profile requires the 
noncustodial parent to fill out their financial information and uses 
this information in calculating 
each student’s financial aid package. Private universities have 
repeatedly justified including 
noncustodial parents in financial aid calculations, with Harvard 
University stating that “both 
parents have an obligation to support you, and a divorce or 
separation does not change 
that obligation” and Pomona College affirming that “parental responsibility for educational 
costs does not cease upon 
divorce or separation.” Married and divorced parents should be 
considered as equally responsible 
for their children, and it does not make sense for FAFSA to assume 
otherwise. 
By only requiring the 
custodial parent’s information to be included in financial 
aid calculations, the FAFSA creates an economically flawed 
system. The FAFSA’s current 
rules for divorced parents go against economic research which 
proves that the most effective 
“marketplaces need to … make it safe to participate in the market as 
simply as possible” by providing 
all necessary information for the market transaction to take place. 
Any attempts to hinder such an 
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Adriana  Barrios
See FAFSA, page 5 ▶Need More 
Financial Aid? T ell 
Y our Parents to Get 
a Divorce
By: Suzanna Golshanara // 
Senior Sta ff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
▶ FAFSA, from page 4
open market are said to “reduce overall welfare” of 
market participants. 
Because it only requires the custodial parent 
to apply for the FAFSA, the FAFSA is essentially creating a type of market failure known as information failure. In a market with information failure, the 
market does not “provide enough information...
during a financial aid market, omitting the financial information of the noncustodial parent prevents universities from having enough information to judge 
a student’s financial need correctly. This is why Time 
magazine argues that “[s]tudents whose parents are divorced … will in many cases be in line for a more 
generous financial aid package.”
Some noncustodial parents are completely 
uninvolved in their children’s lives, and there is concern that including the financial information 
of those parents would be unfair to students with divorced parents. In situations like this, the CSS Profile has a waiver that students can use to petition 
to only include their custodial parent’s financial 
information in financial aid calculations. A similar waiver could be included in the FAFSA. 
The FAFSA needs to be restructured as to 
require the financial information of both divorced parents. Such a reconfiguration would allow public universities to have a more accurate picture all of its 
students’ financial need and enable them to distribute 
financial aid in a more justified and equitable manner.
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By Anthony Tran
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
Suzanne Golshanara  smgolsha@gmail.com6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
For three days in May, UC San Diego was in a state 
of unrest. Strikers from the American Federation of 
State, County, and Municipal Employees 3299 — an 
organization of UC workers — demonstrated all throughout 
campus. Stemming from contract disagreements with the UC system, the workers demanded a wage increase that 
kept up with the rate of inflation, and an end to wage gaps 
between workers of different race and gender. With each footstep, they incited recognition and solidarity for their fight in onlooking students.
But that fight is not over. Though campus may have 
quieted down after the May 7 to May 9 strike, the union remains in the 
bargaining process 
with the University of California. In fact, UC negotiators refused to 
meet with AFSCME 3299 
for an Aug. 29 bargaining session at the UC Davis Medical Center, even 
though they’ d previously 
agreed to do so. 
“UC [negotiators] 
actually called to cancel [our bargaining session], stating that workers don’t need to be a part of the 
bargaining at this point in the process, ” said John de los 
Angeles, the union’s communications director.
Frustrated by the UC negotiators’ silence throughout 
this bargaining process, the union announced on Sept. 26 
that their members will be voting on whether or not to 
strike again in the coming months. 
With another potential strike on the rise, the struggle 
for UC laborers’ voices to be heard is still very much 
ongoing. Ruth Zolayvar, a union member who works at 
Jacobs Medical Center, understands firsthand how much still needs to be done for workers’ rights. Zolayvar is currently part of the union’s team of negotiators for both patient care and service workers. 
“There is a growing inequality in [the university] when 
it comes to race, gender, and wages. So it’s a growing thing. All we need to do is keep on fighting, ” Zolayvar remarked.
Zolayvar appreciates that AFSCME empowers her to 
fight for her equality, especially since she was unable to exercise this same freedom of speech in the Philippines.
She recalled, “In 2013, I was just barely getting to the 
university and I could see people going outside fighting. 
In the Philippines, it’s really hard to fight, but over here 
you have freedom of speech, so that’s when I joined and 
... I like it here in the U.S. 
because of the freedom I 
can express. ”
Since arriving at UCSD 
several years ago, Zolayvar 
has held a number of 
leadership positions within the union, with responsibilities including 
keeping members informed 
and pushing the state to back worker benefits. Zolayvar is 
currently working to bring 
the struggles of the union members to the state level.
“Our goal is to win a 
contract that respects the work that we do, a contract which takes care of our families and our futures. A contract that addresses the growing inequality in regards to income, gender, and race. And we want [the university] to stop 
outsourcing our jobs. And do we see any progress? We 
don’t know, ”  declared Zolayvar.
Indeed, the progress toward equality has been so slow-
moving it’s almost indiscernible. What’s been easier to 
trace are the disadvantages that are arising thanks to the  
It’s easy to leave the 
events of the last school year in the past, but the fi ght 
behind last May’s UC workers strike is still very much alive. Th e 
Guardian spoke with AFSCME about the new school year in the context of their ongoing struggle for equality.
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong // 
Senior Sta ff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF MIHIR DESAI AFSCME 
Strike: 
What 
Happens 
Now?
SeeAFSCME STRIKE , page 7
“Our goal is to win a contract that 
respects the work that we do, a contract 
which takes care of our families and our 
futures. A contract that addresses the 
growing inequality in regards to income, 
gender, and race. And we want [the 
university] to stop outsourcing our jobs. 
And do we see any progress? We don’t 
know. ”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
JOIN FOR $15—AND GET $15 IN DRIVING CREDIT—WITH CODE   
 
AT ZIPCAR.COM/UNIVERSITIESDrive cars on campus by the hour or day.  
Gas, insurance, parking, and 180 miles included.
All students 18+ welcome (including international 
drivers). Offer valid through 12/31/18. Driving credit expires one month after redeemed.Set your year 
in motion.
UCSD2018
 
AFSCME 
Happens ▶ AFSCME STRIKE , from page 6
university’s bureaucracy.
Zolayvar noted, “[UCSD’s higher-ups] make 
more and work less — they travel a lot, they 
have lavish dinners, and these salaries between executives and us workers are widening. We should stop the widening gap between the executives 
and the workers so we can provide services to the 
students. ”
That’s not to say, however, that the union has 
been without their victories. The May strike proved to be an exceedingly successful display of the union’s grievances and brought a flood of support from onlookers.
“It goes without saying that the general public 
doesn’t pay attention to labor disputes very often. We had 53,000 members statewide and I think we 
made a very loud statement. We brought the issue 
of pay and benefits and treating workers that live around [the university] with respect by providing them with career ladders. I think we brought 
that issue to the forefront with the type of media 
coverage that we got, ” reflected de los Angeles.
Zolayvar agreed that the strike was an immense 
success. She said, “For exposing the inequality of 
UC, for 53,000 workers standing strong, the strike 
was a big success. And UC knows all this. We want UC to address these inequalities. ”
After reflecting on the injustices she’s faced as a 
worker, Zolayvar remarked that students are facing similar inequality as UCSD continues to impose inexplicably high tuition fees. In essence, rather 
than slimming the bureaucracy to offset cost, 
UCSD passes the consequences on to students and workers alike.
De los Angeles added, “[The university] just 
supposedly lowered tuition. Do you actually know the dollar amount that they decreased tuition by? It’s only sixty dollars. Six zero. To count that as a win for students is a little ridiculous … I’m gonna 
let you tell me how much $60 buys you in a week. 
When we’re talking about this inequality, we’re 
talking about more than just the $60 increase that 
needs to be done to fix this problem. ”
 AFSCME is well aware of the parallels between 
the issues of student and laborer inequality, and has 
teamed up with student organizations to discuss 
their advocacy. Students have also been involved 
with the union’s efforts, showing solidarity for their cause.
“We have a history of our students going to our 
actions. We also go to students’ club meetings and support one another because the struggles are real, ” stated Zolayvar.
With the onset of another academic year, 
AFSCME would like to see continued integration with students. In particular, one of the union’s goals for the new year is for students to recognize that 
their struggles are linked to that of laborers by a 
common enemy.
“Workers are currently being asked to make 
even less, but at the same time there’s ongoing conversation about tuition for students, ” de los Angeles observed.
“With the rising cost of education and the 
lowered value of the workforce, all are driven by the same thing here which is [the university]’s desire for profit. We’ve seen, over the last several years, the gap between the top and bottom of [the 
university] grow exponentially. One of our goals for 
the new year is for students to recognize that we’re together on this. ”
One consequence of the university’s profit 
motive is the rift between laborers who struggle to find work and students who take positions in labor 
fields. As students don’t have a union to ensure 
fair pay and hours, they are often filtered into 
on-campus labor positions, narrowing down job options for non-student workers. Recognizing the institutional forces behind conflicts like this is the 
first step toward dismantling these injustices.
Despite the different roles that exist within 
the UCSD community, a social justice movement at any level naturally involves people from all 
types of backgrounds, from student to laborer. Recognizing and being present in the union’s efforts offer students an entry point for social 
justice conversations that build on what they learn 
in the classroom.
Zolayvar explained, “We want new students to 
practice social justice beyond the classroom. This 
is a chance for students to learn the progressive 
values that [the university] teaches. They must go outside of the classroom to see this. ”
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@ucsd.edu
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong   jknowshi@ILLUSTRATION BY OF DAVID JUAREZSummer months are known for relaxation, recovery from the school year, 
and most importantly, catching up on media. From binge-watching Netflix 
into the small hours of the morning, to actually walking to our local movie 
theaters, the Guardian Arts and Entertainment 
staff investigated for three months to find media’s 
newest highlights. We even read books that 
weren’t assigned for school! Here are our staff 
picks on summer entertainment worth checking 
out, regardless of the season.A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
SUMMER
HIGHLIGHTS
SHOW: Queer  Eye
book:   Convenience  Store  Woman
WRITTEN  by Say aka   MurataNetflix’s remake of the incredibly successful 2003 reality show, “Queer 
Eye for the Straight Guy” boasts a refreshing, heartwarming approach by 
highlighting an even more eccentric cast (dubbed the Fab Five) and a diverse array of makeovers. Essentially, each episode focuses on a single client, typically a straight male, who struggles with understanding his values in life and automatically withdraws into a cocoon of doubt and toxic masculinity whenever a problem arises. In response, the Fab Five, a group of five gay men who specialize in various fields, arrive spontaneously and embark on a life makeover for the new client. Whether it be a vibrant, new playroom for the children, a trip to an adventure challenge course, or an empathetic discussion concerning the Black Lives Matter movement, they never fail to amaze viewers with the shocking beauty of change.
Featuring Tan France (fashion), Karamo Brown (culture), Antoni Porowski 
(food and wine), Bobby Berk (design), and Jonathan Van Ness (grooming), the past two seasons of “Queer Eye” have opened the floodgates for much-needed discussions on self-love, self-care, and understanding. Van Ness and Brown have especially emerged as beloved voices of the show’s most powerful themes. Whether it be Van Ness’ constant flow of encouraging affirmations or Brown’s compassionate, down-to-earth talks, the two have proved to be strong pillars to the show’s success. 
Yet, while fans also praise France’s talent for choosing the best clothing 
styles for his clients, Porowski and Berk have remained in the shadows for the majority of the past two seasons. Many have already pointed out the lack of camera time for Berk, who does the most labor of the five by often redesigning and reconstructing an entire room or house in just under a week. However, in season two, episode one, titled “God Bless Gay, ” “Queer Eye” makes some room for Berk to finally express his own personal struggles, specifically in terms of his relationship to the church, a topic that the Fab Five had yet to cover. Sitting beside makeover client Tammye, Berk tears up as he shares his 
Translated from Japanese, “Convenience Store Woman” , by Sayaka Murata is a refreshing story 
about Keiko Furukura, a single woman in her mid-30s who has worked at a convenience store for the last 18 years of her life. Her family and friends insist she must be unhappy with her dull life and consistently urge her to find a more serious way to live and work. To appease them, Keiko puts enormous amounts of effort into behaving the way they expect: like a “normal” person. However, her efforts only bring her trouble, leading her to question the opinions of others versus her own. 
“Convenience Store Woman” is an absurd and striking look into the ordinary life of a middle-aged 
woman that leaves audiences questioning the way success and happiness are defined by themselves and others. There are occasional moments of excessive repetition, such as the routine pace of Keiko’s world and her coworker, Shiraha’s, obsession with the world as a “Stone-Age” village that systematically punishes those who differ from societal behavior. However, these details primarily serve as a way of immersing the reader more comprehensively into the world of the book. Characters are portrayed as rather one-dimensional, but this only makes Keiko’s transformation that much more striking in its development and portrayal. “Convenience Store Woman” is both deceivingly simple and wholly unconventional in today’s bustling modern society, making it a wonderful and quick summer read.
—   Laura  Hatanaka
Contributing Writerexperiences of rejection on the sides of both the church and his family. This moment is just an example of the numerous ways that the show embraces and comforts not just Berk, but the rest of the LGBTQ community searching for acceptance as well.
From battling toxic masculinity through self-care, to genuinely listening 
to issues concerning race and the LGBTQ community, “Queer Eye” serves as a thriving, inspiring voice in recent reality television. Whether it be Tan’s infamous “French tuck, ” or Antoni’s knack for delicious, easy-to-make dishes, the show is sure to make you laugh, cry, scream, and everything in between.
—   Katrina  Ngo
Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF WMAGAZINEA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
U-Pass is valid through 
June 30, 2019.  Use your iPhone or Android as your mobile ticket to ride. Sign up for U-Pass Cloud today!
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Student fees provide unlimited rides 
for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded. 
Current registration/enrollment and valid 
@ucsd.edu email address required.Get your new school year 
U-Pass today!
u-pass.ucsd.edu
movie:  to  all  the  boys  i've  
loved  before
music:  Vampire  WeekendIn the Netflix film “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, ” Lara Jean Song Covey (Lana 
Condor) takes the helm as the newest queen of teenage romantic comedies. Sporting 
her signature bomber jackets, she reclaims the classic story of the girl-next-door, except now it’s in the name of Asian-American representation and diversity onscreen.
The film begins lightheartedly, quickly establishing Lara Jean’s lively family and 
her spiralling crush on Josh Sanderson (Israel Broussard), who is unfortunately dating her older sister Margot (Janel Parrish). Yet, Lara Jean vows to keep her crush a secret, writing a love letter to him with the intensity of a hopeless romantic — a ritual she has already done with four other past crushes. However, one day at school, Lara Jean discovers that somebody has found her love letters, and, worst of all, mailed them to each of her five crushes. 
“To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, ” based on a book series by Jenny Han, offers 
a fresh, inventive take to the traditional rom-com, and not just because it features an Asian-American female lead. Condor takes on the role of Lara Jean with as much awkward poise and quirkiness as viewers’ most cringe-worthy high school selves, but unlike traditional teenage-centered films, she stays herself. Even when the dreamy Peter Kavinsky (Noah Centineo), one of her old crushes, waltzes in and proposes a fake relationship, Lara Jean stands her ground, setting up rules as to how she wishes to be treated while also allowing herself to be vulnerable. 
From its color-coded cinematography to Lara Jean’s sugary mix of vintage and 
K-pop fashion styles, “To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before” offers an exhilarating revival to the infamous rom-com genre, no strings attached.
—   Katrina  Ngo
Staff Writer
“When will LP4 be released?” has been Vampire Weekend fans’ biggest question for the past five 
years. This summer, the indie band finally responded to such inquiries about its fourth album with a surprise flurry of international concert and festival dates. At one Santa Ana concert in June, lead singer Ezra Koenig announced that the upcoming album was “97 percent done. ” With new touring members and teasers of unreleased tracks, the band’s members and music have clearly changed since its last release in 2013. Even its aesthetic has evolved: gone are the days of sweater vests and Lacoste polos, and in are tie-dye tees and (yes, really) socks and sandals. Regardless, Vampire Weekend has not lost its hold on what made it popular. Thanks to reinvigorating live performances, hits like “ A-Punk” and “Oxford Comma” are back on the radar this summer, and rightly so. With a unique blend of preppy indie rock and breezy Afropop, listening to Vampire Weekend is a refreshing way to wind down during long, hot days. So pop on your rosiest of rose-tinted glasses, and kick back to lyrics of a lazy, romantic summer on a yacht off the shores of Cape Cod.
—   Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF ROLLING STONEPHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds  
in medicine, the smartest choice in health care is becoming the  
most convenient one. Look for our new Rancho Bernardo location,  
opening Fall 2018. For more details about the world-class care  
happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.comLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Picture this: a wide-eyed first-year, getting lost constantly, 
always managing to hop on the wrong shuttle bus, and struggling 
to fit all of her clothes into a miniscule amount of closet space. 
That was me, a confused but hopeful girl from suburban Missouri. 
Everyone’s first year is different, and that is OK. My first year certainly did not go as planned, but I don’t regret one second of it.
1.     (Almost) everyone is as lost and confused as you are. UC 
San Diego is a huge campus. It is easy to get overwhelmed, but know that this is a new experience for other first years too. Look up the locations of halls or buildings before you go to class, and don’t be afraid to ask people where places are.
2.     Y ou are just as competent as everyone else there. I 
remember thinking, “Wow, everyone here is so smart. I have no idea what I’m doing!” Looking back, though, I was doing well in my classes and got good grades. Y ou got into this school for a reason, don’t forget that.
3.     Do not slack, but also do not overwhelm yourself. On one 
hand, it’s not beneficial to take it easy and always go out and have fun. On the other hand, staying in all the time to study isn’t great either. Find a balance. If you’re all caught up with schoolwork, go out. If you’re falling a bit behind, catch up. Learning to reward and 
discipline yourself is an important skill in school and in life.
4.     Look for ways to get involved. Go to organization fairs and 
look up school organizations that you think you would enjoy. Also, go to as many first club meetings as possible to figure out which 
clubs you want to join full-time.
5.     Y ou don’t have to do it all. I understand wanting to have 
perfect grades, being involved in multiple organizations, getting a job, and so on. Hate to break it to you, but perfection is not realistic. Reach for the stars, by all means, but don’t be so hard on yourself for getting one bad grade or missing a couple of dance practices. Being 
a well-rounded student is important, but know when to take a step 
back when there is too much on your plate.
6     Y ou have to put extra effort into making friends. Making 
friends in high school was easy because everyone was stuck in the same place for eight hours, five days a week. College is different. 
Y ou have to put yourself out there and ask people to hang out. Get 
their numbers, set up a little lunch date, and follow up after. Don’t be afraid to ask people to hang out.
7.     No one cares. Don’t be afraid to wear that outfit or join that 
club in fear of being judged because I guarantee you that no one cares. UCSD is massive and people mind their business. Life is too short, do the things that make you happy.
8.     Explore the city. San Diego is beautiful and has so much 
to offer. Convoy Street has great Korean BBQ and boba. Little Italy 
is beautiful at night and has delicious calzones. Torrey Pines State 
Reserve is a really good hiking spot. Mount Soledad has the most beautiful view of the sunrise. Fashion V alley Mall has the best selection of stores. Balboa Park has an array of interesting museums and gorgeous gardens. And, UCSD is right next to Black’s Beach.
9.    There will be tough times, but you will overcome them. 
Y our first year of college is not only an academic learning experience but a life learning experience. You are going to experience many things for the first time — first party, first failing grade, first time eating IHOP at 3 a.m., first heartbreak. Some things will be fun, 
others not so much. Nonetheless, with the help of friends, a few 
calls to Mom or Dad or another loved one back home, and time, you will get through them.
 10.     Everyone has different experiences, and that does not 
make yours less valid. Y ou don’t have to make a bunch of new 
friends or go out all the time or visit a new place every week — 
there is no set list of things you have to do. Refrain from comparing yourself to others because everyone is different and lives life differently, and that is a really cool thing.
Good luck on your first year, freshmen. Don’t worry, it’ll be 
great.Summer Struggles: On the P recipice of P roductivity
Ah, summer: a mystical, romanticized period 
of time during which anything and everything is 
possible. Some people experience summer flings 
a la “Grease” or “Camp Rock, ” while others simply 
wither away on the couch, blissfully comatose beneath a mountain of Doritos. Travels are taken, barbeques are held, and sunburns are endured.
But for many of us busy college students, the 
luxury of lazing around isn’t necessarily an option. We’re pseudo-adults lurking on the fringes of the 
real adult world, so the expectation is we work 
extra hard to compensate for our inadequacy. In contrast to the free and endless days of childhood summers, every passing minute during vacation now feels like a minute lost. The pressure to be 
productive suddenly looms over the horizon, a 
weight constantly carried until we’re worse for wear.
When it comes to summer activities, 
university students are usually presented with several possibilities. For the classic college-kid-who-goes-home-for-the-summer look, sporting a part-time job or internship is the general expectation. Summer session taken either locally 
or abroad is also an option, especially if a lighter 
class load during the year seems appealing. 
Essentially, picking one of these routes 
guarantees a certain threshold of productivity 
will be met, since the student is pursuing further education, monetary increases, or work 
experience. If a student is lucky enough to score a cool position or diligent enough to take more 
classes, then they have the benefit of structure. 
Being productive is a much easier feat when there’s a set path to follow, after all. Consequently, that societally induced hunger to keep busy is 
much more easily fulfilled.
As for my experience, a combination 
of circumstances led me to some kind of 
in-between zone in terms of life structure. I 
was working, interning, and taking an online class simultaneously, yet by no means did I feel extraordinarily busy. Since my work and internship demanded so few hours, I still had 
quite a bit of free time, particularly nearing 
summer’s end. For about a month, I hovered between the thin margin of being productive and being lazy, a new kind of purgatory which felt 
unique to my age group.
I suppose there’s one simple question 
remaining, then: How are we supposed to make 
use of this time? Especially in that final stretch of September, during which I often feel like an 
insect wading in a pool of honey, utterly useless. 
Well, instead of viewing this lack of stimuli as a hindrance to my activity, I decided to see it as an opportunity. When in the near future will I have 
this much free time again? I can pursue whatever I desire on my own terms, a rarity during school 
life.
Since I’m a rather indecisive person, though, 
picking just one hobby to focus on was nigh impossible. I thought about reading piles of books, studying one of my target languages, taking loads of photos, editing on some new software, playing 
video games, as well as practicing writing in 
various styles. Because I set such a wide range of goals, I had to hit on at least a couple of them, 
right? That was my logic, anyway.
In order to corral my thinly spread ambition, 
I was forced to prioritize. Making a list of tasks 
from most to least important seemed to fit the bill, and the act of daily compartmentalizing soothed 
my restless brain. Even if the first item checked off 
on the list was “make a list of priorities, ” I counted it as a win.
Though I couldn’t perform the superhuman 
task of accomplishing everything I wanted to, I didn’t do nothing either. At first, I felt dissatisfied by my inability to jumpstart a successful charity or discover a new periodic element by September’s end, unrealistic time limit be damned. All I 
had was a half-finished script and a stack of 
academic-esque books that yes, of course I would get to sometime soon. Spoiler alert: I didn’t get to reading those anytime ever. But just because Carl 
Jung and Virginia Woolf might be disappointed in my neglectful tendencies doesn’t mean I should 
be disappointed in myself.
Going into the new school year, it’s easy to feel 
like another summer has gone by without having accomplished anything of note. However, I found that listing out what I had completed disproved everything I thought about myself. Seeing the 
books I read, the places I went, the tasks I finished 
written out in full was all proof that I had lived as well as I could — evidence sitting right under my 
metaphorical nose.
Y oung people today can feel so easily 
discouraged when their own achievements don’t 
measure up to a certain standard, when they don’t “hit the grind” as hard as someone they know 
on Instagram. Summer productivity is another 
byproduct of modern workaholic culture, and I shouldn’t have put stock into the idea that throwing myself into a worker bee mentality 
would automatically make me happy. 
College is founded on this idea of doing as 
much as possible; but sometimes, we all need a 
moment to breathe. That moment for me was the month of September, a tranquil chapter of my life 
which I spent without regrets.
For as long as I can remember, I have always known what I 
wanted to do with my life. The plan was simple: excel in all my classes, so I can attend my dream college, major in biology, go to the 
best graduate school on the East Coast, and somewhere along the way I would find a passion project that would lead to a Ph.D. That was ambitious 10-year-old Natalie’s plan to become Dr. Duprey. 
You  h av e  t o  a d m it ,  it  h a s  a  n i c e  r i n g  t o  it .
But reality hit me faster than the meteor that killed the dinosaurs. 
In my senior year of high school, I read the worst rejection email I 
had ever received and cried myself to sleep. This was the first time I faced a real setback in life, but the way I handled it was the first of 
many mistakes I made. As you might have inferred, I wiped those 
tears and later that year found myself on a plane to San Diego. It was a bittersweet goodbye, but I was hopeful because I could still follow my plan: do well in my classes so I could go to graduate school, and 
in five to six years earn my Ph.D. Simple, right? 
Three weeks into my first quarter, I would learn differently. In 
10 weeks, I managed to go from a straight-A student who teachers 
claimed had so much potential to almost failing out of college with professors who know me as a PID. My stubborn past self was not 
about to admit that I needed help, so I made the terrible decision 
to isolate myself. The rest of the year was just as awful because I found myself making the same mistakes, in this detrimental cycle of naive optimism that would turn into extreme self loathing and longing for the past at any minor setback. I decided to stay at school 
for the summer in an attempt to retake classes, but I also was afraid 
to go home. I felt like I couldn’t explain to my friends and family what was happening because I was scared of letting them down. So I spent another year trying desperately to stay on track because the 
goal was simple: good grades, grad school, Ph.D. Right?
Then, I had an epiphany, in the form of a panic attack. Last 
spring, a voice in the back of my mind whispered my biggest fear 
since I started college, “Y ou’re a failure who peaked in high school. ” This caused me to sit straight up and suddenly start thinking a 
million thoughts a minute. I couldn’t breathe and wanted to scream. 
I didn’t because I didn’t want to wake my roommate. I never wanted to bother her or anyone because I didn’t want these people to see how much pain I was in. After what felt like forever, the anxiety and 
lack of sleep caught up to me causing me to faint. I woke up the next 
morning, went to class, and smiled like everything was fine.
After that horrifying night, I finally learned some very important 
lessons: I don’t handle rejection well, and I suffer from depression.
With this new realization, I did the only logical thing an aspiring 
scientist could think of, which was figure out where everything went wrong in the experiment known as my life. So I went home this past summer to retrace my footsteps until I saw the answer I didn’t want to accept: I had to switch majors. Everything that I hated about the past two years could be traced back to my plan to 
succeed. I couldn’t get good grades because the classes were hard 
and uninteresting. I couldn’t get into graduate school because I did so poorly. The plan was simple; however, it was also unrealistic.
I’m sharing this story in hopes that you, my dear reader, will not 
copy my mistakes this upcoming school year. If you find yourself struggling, get help from the people who love you, because — as I learned — all they want is for you to be happy and a part of their lives. Don’t isolate yourself and keep those dark feelings bottled up inside, express them in a healthy creative way (I suggest writing, 
the UCSD Guardian is a great place to start). Finally, keep an 
open mind. It’s OK to go off the beaten path during your quest for success.
For the first time in a while, I’m at ease with the start of the 
school year because I have no expectations to live up to. My only plan is to take a deep breath and to start again.
Start Again
10 Things I Wish I Knew When I was a Freshmanby Jade Hookham // Staff Writer
by Natalie Duprey // Staff Writer
by Natasha Vandamme // Contributing Writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
www.SiebelScholars.comSiebel Scholars Class of 2019
The Siebel Scholars program was founded in 2000 to recognize the most talented 
graduate students in business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science. Each 
year, over 90 outstanding graduate students are selected as Siebel Scholars based on academic 
excellence and leadership and join an active, lifelong community among an ever-growing group 
of leaders. We are pleased to recognize this year’s Siebel Scholars.
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Farshid Alambeigi
Ehsan AzimiMohammadjavad FotouhighazviniJohn HickeyLuke Osborn
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Breanna DiAndreth
Claire Duvallet
Linyi Gao
Manu KumarAsmamaw WassieSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Jung Kim
Aaron MayerFarah MemonJake SgangaStephanie Tzouanas Schmidt
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Andrew Bremer
Marc Steven Chooljian
Phillip Kang
Stacey LeeNicole Anne RepinaUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO 
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Ashley Kroll
Colton LloydRachel MartyKimberly McCabeAlexander Williams
MIT 
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Daniel Barnes
Ryan BradleyYancan LiGregory O’SullivanAlyssa Murray
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
KELLOGG SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Jonathan Bateman
Oscar DangLekha RagavendranDaniel KishJohn BugasSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Geoffrey Calder
John Tyler EttingerTucker KocherValerie Shen Jennifer Eugenia VillaUNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
BOOTH SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Alexander Daifotis
Siddhant DubeTrisha MantriKallan ParchmanDanny Zhang
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Alankar Jain
Kijung ShinTanya MarwahXaioyue CuiZhilin Yang
HARVARD JOHN A. PAULSON SCHOOL 
OF ENGINEERING & APPLIED SCIENCES
Emma Alexander
Nam Wook KimRobert BowdenBradley McDanelJarosław Błasiok
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Andrew Mullen
Logan EngstromNichole ClarkeJames MawdsleyAlireza FallahPRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  APPLIED SCIENCE
Cyril Zhang
Yinda ZhangMina Tahmasbi ArashlooRoss TeixeiraBrian Bullins
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Zoe Bohn
Paul CrewsMichelle LamDavid TagliamontiLucy Wang
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION SCIENCE  AND TECHNOLOGY
Yupei Wu
Yihui MaFan ZhangXiuxing LiYanzhuo DingUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
David Wang
Samantha Wathugala
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Adam Holmes
Alena SternEmma NechamkinHaopeng LiuZihan Tan
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Medhini Gulganjalli Narasimhan 
Riccardo Paccagnella Abhinav Kohar Anusri Pampari Zexuan Zhong
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Kelly Good
ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE GRADUATE SCHOOL
Chloé Dindault
MIT SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Ian Schneider
POLITECNICO DI TORINO DOCTORAL SCHOOL
Andrea BersanoSTANFORD UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF EARTH, ENERGY  & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
Usua Amanam
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Yi Wang
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Wojciech OsowieckiUNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Hanchen Xu
THE UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
An HeBIOENGINEERING
BUSINESS
COMPUTER SCIENCE
ENERGY SCIENCECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
CAMERA LUCIDATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 1 - OCT 7
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 1
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
MATTHEWS QUAD, NEXT TO 
STUDENT SERVICES CENTER
Come make your own DIY Galaxy Print Tapestry! 
Perfect for your newly moved in dorm, apartment 
or house! Come join us at Matthews Quad on 
October 2nd and tie dye or paint a glow in the dark tapestry! Guaranteed to have "Out of this World" wall decorations!
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO PEPBAND'S 
PEPBLAST - RIMAC CONCOURSE
The UCSD Pepband is excited to announce our 
first rehearsal of the year, Pepblast! We will be playing through some of our best songs, so you 
wont want to miss out. Free food will be 
provided! Join us at Pepblast not only for the 
music, but to learn about cheering on our UCSD athletes and bringing our peppy music to various 
community events. We accept undergrad and 
graduate students of all grade levels and 
backgrounds; no music experience or time commitment required! Pepblast will be held on 
Tuesday, October 2nd, from 7-10pm at the RIMAC 
Concourse.
6pm
OUT OF STATE STUDENT MIXER - 
MANDEVILLE SUITE, TIOGA HALL, 
11TH FLOOR, MUIR
Come meet your fellow out of state students 
here at UC San Diego! Open to out of state students of all years. Hosted by Outreach Coordinators for International & Out of State Students Contact: outreachcoord@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
SALSA Y SALSA - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
Free Salsa and Salsa Dancing! Porque no las 
dos?UCSD InterVarsity's La Fe will be hosting a Salsa y Salsa Night. We will salsa music and a chips & salsa bar! If you don't know how to dance, don't worry we will have dance instructors teaching us how to dance from 8:30-9 pm. TUE10.02
THU10.04MON10.01
*ALL WEEK LONG!
THE GET INVOLVED STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS FAIR - LIBRARY 
WALK
The Get Involved Fair occurs during Welcome 
Week and Week One and highlights a variety of 
ways to get involved in student organizations. 
More than 400 student organizations will be on 
Library Walk during those two weeks, showcasing 
what they have to offer. Come explore and learn 
how you can get involved in a student 
organization! Contact: darlene@ucsd.edu
11am
GEISEL 8TH FLOOR REOPENING 
CELEBRATION - GEISEL LIBRARY, 
8TH FLOOR
We’re nearing the homestretch of Geisels 8th 
Floor Renovation. Mark your calendars for 
Monday, October 1 when the floor will be unveiled 
after a year of renovations. The floor has been 
transformed into a prime study destination with 
amazing views of the campus. We’re planning a 
huge celebration with grab & go snacks, 
mini-messages, a photo booth & other fun 
activities. We’ll be raffling four prizes! Enter to 
win an iPad, Bose headphones, a Library 
essentials gift basket or a UC San Diego 
Bookstore gift card. #StudyingJustGotBetter 
#WonderOn8 Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu
10pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music collaboration 
between four musicians with diverse 
backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a unique project 
matching masterpieces of the chamber music 
repertoire with a group of world-class 
instrumentalists who happen to call San Diego 
home. Under the artistic directorship of UC San 
Diego professor and cellistCharles Curtisand 
anchored by regular featured performances by 
San Diego Symphony ConcertmasterJeff Thayer, 
Formosa Quartet violist and USC 
professorChe-Yen Chen, concert pianistReiko 
Uchida, UC San Diego performance faculty and 
occasional guests, Camera Lucida has 
established a tradition of challenging, musically 
ambitious programs performed with the 
assurance of an established ensemble, with the 
added flexibility of changing instrumentation and 
guests from the international chamber music 
world.12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
5pm
MUIR MUSICAL 'S TICK, TICK... 
BOOM! AUDITIONS - MARIPOSA ROOM, MUIR COLLEGE
Audition for Muir Musical's fall production of 
tick, tick... BOOM! All UCSD students are welcome to audition! Prepare a 1 minute contemporary song of your choosing for your individual vocal audition. Performances will take place on Thursday, November 1, 2018, Saturday, November 3, 2018, and Sunday, November 4, 2018 at the Ch Cafe. More information and sign-ups: https://www.muirmusical.com/tick-tick-boom-auditions/ 
7pm
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT MIXER - 
GREAT HALL
This is a time for the international community 
here at UC San Diego to gather. Student of all years welcome! Hosted by Outreach Coordinators for International & Out of State Students, International Students & Programs Office (ISPO), Global Education, and Study Abroad. Contact: outreachcoord@ucsd.edu
5pm
TRITONS CHOICE WINNER: 
GUINNESS WORLD RECORD ATTEMPT - WARREN MALL
Last year 1,000 students voted for an event to 
produce this fall. Were proud to present this years Tritons Choice event: an official attempt to break the Guinness World Record for the largest game of red light, green light.FRI10.05
3pm
THE ANNUAL GLOBAL 
EMPOWERMENT SUMMIT - 
ATKINSON HALL
The 2018 Annual Global Empowerment 
Summit "Time to Rise!" encourages everyone to become a global change maker! This is a free event. Attendees will discuss actions we can take to address worldwide social issues, such as human trafficking. Representatives from local, national, and international think tanks that fight human trafficking will share their knowledge on this growing problem. 
Open to all compassionate citizensSAT10.06
8pm
UC HEALTH HACK - MEDICAL 
EDUCATION TELEMEDICINE (MET) BUILDING
Calling all undergraduate and graduate 
students for the second annual UC Health Hack! We need your innovative and entrepreneurial minds to help us solve some of todays pressing health care needs! The UC Health Hack will focus on the theme of patient engagement. Register today at https://healthhack.uchealth.edu/SUN10.07WED10.03CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER • 7PM
4pm
UCDC INFORMATION SESSSION - 
EARL WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PRICE CENTER WEST
Join us for our first UCDC info session of the 
academic year! Learn how you can live, learn, and intern for a quarter in Washington, D.C. 
Event will be held on 10/3 from 4-5pm in the Earl 
Warren Room, PC West. FREE FOOD for those who 
attend!
6:30pm
MUIR MUSICAL INFORMATION 
SESSION - MARIPOSA ROOM, MUIR COLLEGE
This year, Muir Musical Ensemble is excited to 
produce tick, tick BOOM! in Fall 2018 and 
Hairspray in Spring 2019. Whether you are eager 
to perform onstage, work behind the scenes, or play in the orchestra pit, we invite you to join us at an information session to learn more about how you can get involved and what the audition, rehearsal, and production processes are like. The material covered in each information sessions will be the same. However, because tick, tick BOOM! auditions occur at the end of Week 1 on Friday, October 5, our Week 2 information session will only cover the audition and rehearsal process for the spring musical, Hairspray. Muir College Mariposa Room (next to John's Market in the Tamarack Apartments)
7pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & 
SALT AT HOME PLATE, NEXT TO 
RIMAC
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
SHOP FALL18
TRITON    _
OUTFITTERS
TUESDAY-THURSDAY
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
10AM-3PM14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SCHOOL LIFE
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Cattle breed
6. Hit-or-____10. Gator’s kin
14. Minimum
15. Repeat
16. Lasso17. Document18. Shore bird
19. Observed
20. Hi-fi system
22. Not cognizant24. Angered27. Chap
28. Baker’s dozen
32. Tyke
34. Thorny bloom35. Slipped37. ____ bear
41. Foretelling signs
43. Friend (Fr.)
44. Tiny amount45. Molars46. Pull sharply48. Singer ____ Turner49. Family mem.51. Less chewy53. Biceps site56. Boxing official58. Bread browner60. Votes in65. Traditional knowledge66. Shipped69. Characteristic70. Vietnam’s continent71. On the ocean72. Bride’s walkway73. Headliner74. Sharpen75. Overcharge for ticketsDOWN
1. Swiss peaks2. Cool!3. Rubberneck
4. Client
5. Road
6. Came across7. Chill8. Show indifference
9. 14-line poem
10. Ship’s company
11. ____ blue12. “Phantom of the ____”13. Surrendered
21. Till bills
23. Add to the family
25. Pass on26. Make lively28. Jog
29. Dwelling
30. Understood! (2 wds.)
31. Sublets33. Rich cake36. Roadside eatery38. Wild animal’s home39. Skin woe40. “____ Window”42. Sleeved garment47. Leg joint50. Teeter-totter52. River mouths53. Book of maps54. Bird’s perch55. “West Side Story” character57. Novel59. Burn61. Musician ____ Clapton62. House (Sp.)63. Money drawer64. Ladder rung67. Formerly named68. Create laceHOUSING
Shared Room Available in FULLY 
FURNISHED Apartment - $1,100 per month. Kapi residences provides fully furnished apartments that are quiet, clean, 
comfortable and in a nice neighborhood. 
Shared rooms designed for 2 students 
in each room. Shared room: $1100 per person/per month. Lease: *09/11/2018 - 06/16/2019*. email/ text or call now: (949)565-5628 Marcella.  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
A Room Available in Hillcrest - $566 per 
month. 15 minute walk from the UCSD 
shuttle stop and plenty of restaurants/
supermarkets very close by. Rent is 
$565.64/m + utilities (around $70), and a requisite security deposit ($520). It’s a small but cozy room that has nice natural light (windows facing east and south). The house itself is huge with 2 living rooms, and 
a nice deck in the back. Bathroom shared 
with three other people, and 2.5 bathrooms 
total in the house. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Female Roommate in North PB - $950 
per month. Cute 3 bedroom and 3 bath 
spacious townhouse North PB 3 blocks 
from Tourmaline beach to share with one 
health conscious professional woman. 
Large bedroom and private bathroom. 
Utilities/Wi-Fi included. In house washer/
dryer. Cleaning service. Ample street 
parking. Friendly dog and cat are included. 
Absolutely no smoking inside or out. 
For more information or to schedule a 
visit please call Jeanie (858)752-3304. 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
BIKES
Scott CR1 Carbon (San Diego) - $999. Full 
carbon fiber scott cr1 plasma limited road bike Frame medium No trades $999 FIRM. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationVintage Univega Front Suspension Bike 
(Escondido) -$150. Bike is good condition 
Aluminum Frame 21 speed Quality 
shimano Components. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beach Cruiser Bike - NEW - in box (Vista) 
- $130. New in sealed box beach cruiser (unassembled). All black 26” Men’s style bike. Great for a gift!! Picture below is close to what the bike will look like assembled. The bike is a traditional single speed beach 
cruiser. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
CARS
2007 TOYOTA SOLARA Convertible 96000 
MILES (Mission Gorge) - $4,900. Terrific 
condition beautiful blue solara with beige 
leather seats with only 96000mis. Fully 
loaded,all power.got salvage title. Rear bumper damaged,but fixed,got images of 
the damage prior of the repairs +you are 
welcome to inspect it. ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2007 Lexus Es 350 Sedan------Dealer 
Special-------Great Condition- (Mira Mesa) - $4,800. NICE SHINNY SILVER EXTERIOR WITH ALSO NICE GRAY LEATHER SEATS MECHANICALLY IN TERRIFIC SHAPE RELIABLE & ECONOMICAL-----V six MTR. FULLY LOADED WITH OPTIONS IN GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS---MOON ROOF… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee 4WD 4dr Limited 
- $18,995. 2012 *** Jeep Grand Cherokee four wheel-drive four door Limited SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE *** Drive it home today. Call for info !! Call *** GOOD GUYS AUTO SALES 6240 MISSION GORGE ROAD, SAN DIEGO, CA 92120. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Like  us  
on F acebook
@UCSDGUARDIANThis week, the UC San Diego 
men’s water polo team won both of 
its matchups. On Wednesday the 
team defeated Loyola Marymount 
University, 22–12, and on Friday it picked up a road win at the U.S. Air Force Academy, 20–12. The No. 
8-ranked Triton squad extended their winning streak to a season-long four games and improved to 10-2 overall.
UCSD vs LMU
LMU looked poised to stun the 
sell-out Tritons crowd early, as it took the first quarter 4–3 and scored 
the first two goals of the second 
quarter. However, the tides began to turn at Canyonview Aquatic Center as the Tritons then rattled o ff five 
consecutive goals and took an 8–6 lead. This comeback was spurred 
by senior utility Alessandro Valania who, in the run, scored 2 goals with 1 assist. Valania finished the game 
with 2 goals, 5 assists, and 1 steal.
The Tritons led 10–7 going into the half but were not content. They 
added some insurance goals in the third quarter, outscoring LMU 7–3 to take a commanding 17–10 lead into the final quarter. More of the 
same dominance occurred in the fourth as UCSD added 5 more goals to ultimately win the game, 22–12.
Sophomore utility Connor 
Turnbow-Lindenstadt dominated in the third and fourth quarters, as he picked up a hat trick just in the second half. Turnbow-Lindenstadt led the Tritons in shots and goals 
in this game, with 12 and 4, 
respectively. On the other side of the pool, Triton redshirt junior goalkeeper Jack Turner limited the 
Lions o ffense, with 9 saves.
LMU was clearly frustrated all 
game long as the team was called for 
1 misconduct, 2 yellow cards, and 1 red card throughout the match.
The Tritons students packed that 
arena and in return were given a dominant performance by the team. An energized Tritons squad made 
quick work of the No. 18-ranked 
LMU Lions and picked up the 22–12 
At the top of national ranking, 
UC San Diego’s women’s soccer team didn’t play this week to disprove its doubters; the women played to con firm expectations. On 
Friday, No.1-ranked UCSD faced o ff 
against No.24-ranked Sonoma State University at home. 
UCSD struck first blood 12 
minutes in. With assists from senior 
forward Megumi Barber and senior 
midfielder Summer Bales, senior 
forward Mary Reilly found the back of the net for the first score of the 
game. However, Sonoma State was quick to respond, evening the score to 1–1 24 seconds later. Late in the first period, the Tritons were able to 
pull ahead. A free kick by freshman 
forward Marissa Ray gave the ball 
to sophomore defender Delaney Whittet. Whittet passed the ball through to freshman mid fielder 
Christina Oddone who knocked the 
ball passed the goal line. Up 2–1, 
UCSD closed out the first half. For 
the rest of the game, both teams were held scoreless. With a final score of 
2–1, UCSD held on for the win.
The close final score masks 
UCSD’s dominant performance a fter 
the half. Up one point in the second period, the Tritons’ defense locked 
down Sonoma State, limiting the 
Seawolves to two shots: one went wide right and the other was blocked by redshirt junior goalkeeper 
Angelica Ramos. O ffensively, the 
Tritons remained aggressive, not 
willing to be complacent with their one-point lead. UCSD attempted seven shots in the second period. 
Though none of them crossed the 
goalline, it put pressure on the 
Sonoma State  defense, forcing them to play conservatively and keeping 
the ball on the Seawolves’ side of the field.
Reilly was a standout on o ffense. 
The Chula Vista native lead the team 
with seven shots, two shots on goal, 
and one score. 
Former NFL executive Mike 
Lombardi said “the hallmark of a good team is that they beat bad teams. ” UCSD did exactly that. Against worse competition, the Tritons established a lead early, 
shutdown Sonoma State’s o ffense in 
the second period, and remained 
aggressive throughout the match. With the win, the team advances 
to 8-0-1 and holds onto its No.1 
national ranking. Next, the Tritons look to extend their six-game win streak against conference rival California State University, 
Humboldt in their sixth home game 
of the season. Tritons Top Air Force 
Academy to Extend 
Win Streak
No.1 Ranked UCSD Continues 
Conference DominationUCSD Men’s Water Polo takes down Loyola Marymount 
University, 22–12, and US Air Force Academy, 20–12.
The Tritons easily defeat Sonoma State, improve to 8–0–1.LUCAS ARMSTRONG  LQARMSTR@ucsd.edu
wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
BY wesley xiao
Contributing Writerwin.
UCSD vs US Air Force Academy:
Only two nights a fter a statement 
victory at home against LMU, the 
Tritons were on the road against the U.S. Air Force Academy Falcons, in Colorado. Before the fans had even 
settled into their seats the Tritons 
had jumped out to an early 4–0 lead all before the sixth minute of the contest. Redshirt sophomore utility Calder Hilde-Jones was responsible 
for two of the four early goals. 
Hilde-Jones finished the night with 
4 shots and 3 goals. UCSD set the tone for the whole match in the first 
quarter as the team took a 6–1 lead into the second and never trailed for the entirety of the match.
Junior utility Skyler Munatones stuffed the stat sheet all night long 
as he scored 3 goals, with 2 assists and 2 steals. Turnbow-Lindenstadt 
scored 3 goals as well. The Tritons 
lead scorer on Friday was junior 
utility Noah Carniglia who had an eye-opening 5 goals on the night. 
On the defensive side of the 
ball, the Tritons were just as stout, as they recorded 6 steals as a team and limited the Air Force to only 12 goals. Turner recorded 12 blocks 
and played the full 32 minutes.
This was a clean win for the 
Tritons in nearly every facet. Not 
only did they lead for almost the 
entire game, but a fter the first five 
minutes, they never had less than 
a 3-point cushion on the lead. The 
only sign of life that the Air Force showed in the game came toward the end of the first half when it 
scored 2 straight goals; which was 
the only time any Falcon goals were 
not split by at least one Triton goal. That little burst of energy from the 
Falcons was quickly squashed as 
the Tritons outscored the Air Force 
11–6 a fterward, which was good 
enough for the 20–12 win. 
The Tritons improved to 10–2 
on the year and will look to extend 
their now four-game winning 
streak at home on Friday, Oct. 5 at Canyonview Aquatic Center.BY lucas armstrong
Contributing Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKANPHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 1, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
LA JOLLA, Calif.—On Friday 
evening, in front of a home crowd 
of over 500, the No. 13 UC San 
Diego men’s soccer team defeated 
California Collegiate Athletic Association competitor, Sonoma State University, by a shutout score 
of 2–0. With Thursday’s start of the 
2018-19 school year, it was the first 
match back with numerous UCSD 
students in attendance, and the Tritons did not disappoint on the 
pitch of Triton Soccer Stadium.
The blue and gold team improved 
its win streak to three, boosting its overall season record to 8-0-1 and CCAA record to 2-0-1. In an 
attempt to keep up with the UCSD first-ranked women’s soccer team, 
the men managed to remain perfect, placing them fourth among the 
conference standings.
UCSD’s first goal was cra fted 
with 3:23 le ft on the clock before 
halftime. A beautiful cross from 
the right side credited to redshirt 
sophomore mid fielder Matt Davis 
found the head of senior forward Nathaniel Bloom and a wide open Seawolf net. Bloom launched 
himself above everyone to score his 
first goal of the 2018 campaign in heroic fashion.Nonetheless, the Tritons had 
threatened early on when fifth-year 
senior mid fielder Christian Cordell 
missed high o ff the crossbar a fter 
a fancy pass from fellow redshirt senior defender Je ff Powers. Powers 
initiated an attempt of his own, heading a ball from sophomore forward Jonathan Sabouri into the ground, nearly missing the net as 
it bounced over the top and out of 
play.
Sonoma State found an 
opportunity a fter a questionable 
foul on UCSD at the 24:50 marker. 
A free kick just outside the penalty 
box missed high and wide from Sonoma State’s mid fielder, Luis Mendoza. Though he did not have to 
save in that moment, UCSD junior goalkeeper Pedro Enciso would pick up four total on the night contributing to the Seawolves’ goose egg score.
The Tritons continued to attack 
right out the gates of the second half, as sophomore forward Brett Jones drilled the post in disbelief on 
a breakaway with tons of open field.
Triton redshirt junior mid fielder 
Andy Sartor came in fresh o ff the 
bench for Cordell at 25 minutes 
and immediately facilitated pressure 
on the o ffensive end. In the last 45 
minutes of the game, Sartor would 
deliver the game-clinching goal for his third of the year. Freshman 
forward Nick Cirrito recorded the 
assist, as well as redshirt freshman midfielder, Darragh Buckley.
Five Tritons would play the full 
90 minutes. UCSD led in corner 
kicks and shot attempts, 8-3 and 
12-10, respectively. The Tritons 
hosted California State University, Humboldt on, Sunday, Sept. 30 at 
2 p.m. before hitting the road this 
week.
Men's SoccerVeteran 
Players Take 
Control to 
Shut Out Sonoma State
UCSD veteran players step up and 
led the Tritons to a 2–0 victory over 
Sonoma State.
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN
BY madeline  lewis
senior Staff Writer
madeline  lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduvs CSU Dominguez Hills
at CSU San Marcosat CSU San Marcosvs California Baptistvs CSU San BernardinoUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
W Soccer
M Soccer
M Water Polo
W Volleyball7PM
12:30PM
3PM6PM7PM10/210/310/310/510/5