UC San Diego’s Mock Trial team 
competed at the National Champi-
onship Tournament in Minnesota 
last week, taking 17th place overall. 
This is the first time the team has 
qualified for the competition in five 
years.
According to John Muir College 
senior Vivian Pham, in order for a university mock trial team to qualify for nationals, it must first pass two 
tournaments through the American 
Mock Trial Association.
“We passed these the weekend 
of the 10th and the 11th, when we found out that we were going to go 
in March to nationals, ” Pham said.
At the nationals competition, 
Pham explained to the UCSD Guardian that the team did not re -
ceive any awards, however Justin Koo, a junior in Thurgood Marshall 
College studying political science, received the All-American Attorney 
award. 
“There [are] 10 provisions or 
honorable mentions, we didn’t get 
any team awards. We were going into the competition, overall 17th 
out of 48, ” Pham told the Guardian.
The UCSD Mock Trial team has 
been to nationals three times, the 
last time the team quali fied was in 2013 where it placed fourth at the nationals competition.
Pham noted that UCSD fields 
three teams, but only the “ A ” team, which is comparable to the varsity 
team in sports, advanced to nation -
als. The tournament lasted three 
days, beginning on April 20.
Coached by two attorneys and 
one law student, the team members’ 
goals for the 2017-2018 season were to reach the national competition and to improve their skills, Pham stated. 
Pham added that even teams that 
regularly advance to nationals did VOLUME 51, ISSUE 26  MONDA Y , MA Y 7, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD to 
Research Effects of  Marijuana on 
Autism
The research will be funded by the 
largest private donation to a cannabis 
organization in U.S. history.
This past week, the Ray and Tye 
Noorda Foundation, along with the 
Wholistic Research and Education 
Foundation announced that they 
would be donating $4.7 million to UC San Diego’s Center for Medicinal Cannabis Research. Proceeds will 
be focused on understanding how 
cannabidiol, a a nonpsychoactive compound found in cannabis, as treatment for patients with severe autism. 
The university proclaimed it 
as the largest donation on private medicinal cannabis research in U.S. history.
Introducing cannabidiol will 
allow for the evaluation of patients through a combination of clinical observations and interdisciplinary mathematical and scientific genetic 
techniques.   
David A. Brenner, vice chancellor 
of UCSD Health Sciences spoke out 
on the university’s collaboration with the participating organizations.    
“UC San Diego is pleased to 
partner with the Noorda and Wholistic foundations to advance understanding of when and how medicinal cannabis works, and to 
use this information to transform 
the lives of the many people for whom medicinal cannabis may make a meaningful difference in their quality of life, ” Brenner 
stated. “We believe that by working 
together using evidence-based data, we can make the greatest impact on the field, our community and policy 
decision-makers. ”
The UCSD Center for Medicinal 
Cannabis Research has a record 
of pioneering many projects in its field. In 2016 the California 
State Legislature-funded in part 
by Assembly Bill 266 and the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act commissioned 
$1.8 million for UCSD scientists 
to to develop a sobriety test to determine if drivers are impaired by marijuana. Just last year, with 
the enactment of Proposition 64, 
the Center announced that an annual $2 million be directed at the study of medical marijuana for alleviating chronic pain-related and 
neuropathic dysfunction.  
Autism is one of the many 
fields in neuroscience that 
obtained increasing identifiable 
abnormalities in recent years 
CAMPUS
BY Rebeca Camacho
 staff writer
UCSD to Research Effects of  Marijuana on Autism
Project Runway winner Ashley Neil Tipton talks with a student at a self-acceptance workshop. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
See MARIJUANA,  page 3Starting  on May 7, thousands of UC service 
workers plan to hold a three-day strike in 
response to frustration over contract 
negotiations. The strike, which will be led by labor union American Federation of State, County and 
Municipal Employees 3299, was reportedly agreed 
upon by more than 97 percent of its members. 
The immediate cause for the strike was an inability 
to compromise during the negotiation process. 
AFSCME 3299’s negotiators had sought a 6-percent wage increase, but the University of California only 
offered as much as 3 percent over four years. 
AFSCME 3299 is the largest labor union of UC 
workers, representing more than 20,000 people working on all 10 campuses. They have been involved 
with contract negotiations with the UC system for almost a year.
The union’s website states that in addition to 
the failure to meet its demands, “[The University of 
California] has unilaterally imposed a contract that 
will make things worse — flat wages, cuts to benefits, 
and more outsourcing of jobs. ” 
The official press statement from the union claims 
that the UC system’s proposed contract limitations 
would “delay the retirement age by another five years, leave employee wages below the cost of living, continue the outsourcing of jobs, and permit [the University of California] to raise healthcare premiums. ” 
The union additionally asserts that the UC system 
outsources labor that many of its employees are 
trained for, often for lower wages. Claire Doan, a 
spokesperson for the UC Office of the President, stated 
that the UC system’s current contracts with AFSCME 
permits the university to sub-contract labor but not 
when the primary reason is to save money on wages. 
She also added that the University of California is prohibited from laying off workers whose labor has 
been subcontracted.
John de Los Angeles, communications director 
at AFSCME 3299, told the Daily Bruin that “[The University of California] presents itself as an engine of 
social mobility, but it has instead become a monument to inequality. ”
State legislators have also condemned the treatment 
of workers by the UC system. Assembly Appropriations 
Committee Chair Lorena Gonzalez, sent a letter to the 
AFSCME, which stated, “Continued inequities at the 
University will have an adverse effect on the wages of 
California workers outside the University’s payrolls. ”
AFSCME has also called on Senator Kamala Harris 
and Representative John Lewis to join them in solidarity by boycotting their upcoming commencement By  Tyler  Faurot   Editorial AssistantUC SYSTEM
UC Workers to Strike for Fair Wages, Less InequalityPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
WHITELASH
Artsy Education...“Whitelash,” 
an independent hip-hop 
musical, analyzes the politics 
of the 2016 election and the 
ways in which America can 
move forward, especially 
in the midst of rising 
xenophobia.
HIGHER  EDUCA TION
BRIDGING THE  BUSINESS  GAPA  corporate  model
Triton  FundsOPINION,  Page   4
FEATURES,  PAGE  7
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Gaming communities are 
by no means identical; they 
are extremely multifaceted, 
reflecting a diverse population 
and its equally diverse 
interests. This culture has 
grown from friends playing 
Pac-Man in an arcade to 
a global community that is 
alive 24/7 playing its favorite 
games and chatting with 
adversaries.” Features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
H 68 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 71 L 59
PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHNNY ECHAVARRIA
TUESDAY
H 68 L 58
THURSDAY
H 69 L 59
LIGHTS & SIRENS.......2
VEGANISM..................5
MENTAL HEALTH........8
KUSAMA.....................10
BASEBALL..................16CAMPUS
Clarisse Vazquez
GAMING
 PAGE 4One member of the team won an individual award for his role as an attorney.
BY Amalia Huerta Cornejo
 Staff Writer
See MOCK TRIAL,  page 3See AFSCME,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972MATH HOMEWORK By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Alex wa s a little Chipot-late submitting stuff.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y . Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarSaturday, April 21
11:03 p.m. Fire
Bread on fire inside oven. Checks OK.
Sunday, April 22
10:07 a.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting party received a strange phone call from a person 
claiming to work for a delivery company and requested the 
reporting party verify their identity. Information Only.
11:10 a.m. Suspicious Person
Reporting party interrupted by unknown male attempting to 
take the reporting party’s cell phone. Unable to locate.11:38 a.m. Information
Reporting party hears a possible domestic violence 
disturbance coming from neighbors. Referred to San Diego 
Police. 
5:18 p.m. Parole Violation 
Subject stopped for casing bicycles in area. Closed by Adult 
Arrest.
10:14 p.m. Citizen Contact
Subject was told that an officer needed to inspect their 
vehicle for damages, in regards to hit-and-run collision 
report 2018 ‐0599. Checks OK.
Monday, April 237:21 a.m. Non-Injury Collision
UC vehicle vs. outside company truck. Report Taken.12:07 p.m. Disturbance
Report of group of protesters and media van parked in red 
zone. Checks OK.
4:48 p.m. Citizen Contact
Caller forgot where she parked her vehicle, requesting 
assistance locating it. Assistance Provided.
Tuesday, April 24
12:24 p.m. Armed Suspicious Person
Report of adult male hacking at bushes and weeds with 
machete. Checks OK.
Wednesday, Apr il 25  
10:45 a.m. Drunk in Public
Report of possibly intoxicated employee. Checks OK.
5:42 p.m. Fraud
Reporting party was scammed out of $200 on Craigslist 
purchase. Service Provided.
—   Lauren Holt
News EditorLights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
follow  us  on
        twitter@ UCSD
        GUARDIANLike  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIANNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
The T eam Hopes to Place at Least T enth Next Y ear
Cannabidol is Key for Addressing Neurological Disorders▶ MOCK TRIAL, from page 1
▶ MARIJUANA, from page 1not reach the tournament this year.
“It is de finitely a really gruelling 
competition, ” Pham said. “Qualify -
ing competitions are very competi -
tive, and [there are] teams that go 
to nationals every year [which did not return.] There were teams from 
all over the west coast; UCLA, UC 
Berkeley, and Stanford. Miami Uni -
versity won the nationals competi -
tion this year. ”While she herself is graduating, 
Pham mentioned that the team is 
aiming to place 10th at nationals 
next year. 
According to Pham, members of 
the team commit to several practices 
week when they join.
“We practice three days a week, 
two hours each practice, six hours 
total. Since the beginning of the 
quarter, [we’ve had] Saturday scrim -mages which last two hours for 
[each run-through], ” Pham said.
Those interested in joining the 
team can visit the UCSD Mock Trial Facebook page or learn more at ta -
bling and flyering events through -
out the year. Recruitment is in Fall 
Quarter. 
— examples including depleted 
amounts of serotonin, a hormone known for producing the sensation 
of happiness and disproportionate 
levels of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters. Along with other upcoming 
treatments and their effect on autism, cannabidiol’s impact on 
the central nervous system plays a 
historic role in the comprehensive approach required for dealing with neurological disorders and understanding the spectrum that is neurodiversity.        Amalia Huerta Cornejo   ahuertac@ucsd.edu
Rebeca  Camacho   rlcamach@ucsd.eduCalifornia Legislature Offers Support to Workers
▶ AFSCME, from page 1
speeches this graduation season. 
On Wednesday, May 2, the UC 
system attempted to file a legal 
injunction that would prohibit certain 
medical personnel from participating 
in the strike. They claimed that 
essential staff being absent from their 
duties would, “pose an imminent and 
substantial threat to the public health 
and safety. ” 
AFSCME filed to block the 
injunction in response, arguing that 
it had already designated “essential 
employees” to be available to work at 
medical centers during the three-day 
strike. It also stated that it had given 
the UC system ample time to make 
necessary staffing arrangements for 
the upcoming protest.
Union President Kathryn Lybarger’s 
statement on the injunction reads, “University of California’s attempts 
to block this strike were just another 
desperate attempt by Administrators 
to silence workers who are exercising their legal right to speak up against 
widening inequality at the University. ”
On Friday afternoon, a judge from 
the Superior Court of Sacramento 
ruled in favor of the union.
Lybarger stated in a press release, 
“A s  [ t h e  U C  s y s t e m ]  c o n t i n u e s  
its efforts to silence workers and 
perpetuate unequal treatment of 
women and people of color, we will continue to advocate for fairness, while 
prioritizing public health and safety. ”
The Sacramento Bee reports that 
as many as 53,000 university workers 
will be involved in the strike across 
the 10 UC campuses, beginning on 
May 7 and concluding on May 9. In 
an official statement, the UC system 
claimed that the strike “will negatively impact patients, students, and the UC 
community. ”
Tyler  Faurot    tfaurot@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
After a year of failed 
contract negotiations, 
over 50,000 workers 
from across the UC system will unite from May 7 to May 9 to 
protest the UC system’s refusal to 
meet their demands. Healthcare, 
service, and research workers from three unions are striking 
the unfair wages, growing income 
inequality, and outsourcing of 
labor that has resulted from 
the continuous prioritization 
of the UC system’s bottom line. 
The administrations of each 
campus, and the UC system 
as a whole, have continuously sought to undermine worker 
security to ensure a 
cheap and obedient 
labor force, but this ever-contentious and 
precarious approach 
is finally reaching a 
head. This strike fights 
against more than just 
the worker’s individual 
rights, though; it combats the growing 
c o m m e r c i a l i z a t i o n 
of higher education 
which has been pushing 
universities to follow 
a corporate path for 
decades. 
Members of the 
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees 
3299, the largest labor union 
representing workers in the UC system, have recently rejected the 
paltry o ffer of a 3 percent wage 
increase and a lump sum pay-out of $750 per worker. The offer 
seems so generous as to increase worker wages at all, but members 
of the union were quick to point out that this o ffer does little to 
address their grievances. 
The decision to strike follows 
a report that found that the UC system perpetuates the growing 
income inequality of women and 
workers of color. It reported that women of color earned about 
20 percent less than white male 
workers in the same job. Also, 
the UC system outsources nearly 
7,000 contract laborers for work 
that could have been done within the system so that it can pay these 
workers $8.50 per hour less than 
union workers. These factors 
compound to unsettle the job security and general welfare of 
UC employees. To solve these 
issues, the union leaders are 
requesting a six-percent wage increase across the board, a freeze 
on their healthcare premiums, 
and an end to the outsourcing of 
labor.
The issues of income 
inequality, living wages, unsafe 
and unfair work conditions, and outsourcing of labor are all 
symptoms of a larger disease rotting the UC system from the 
inside out. Higher education has 
increasingly pursued a corporate 
model where costs are low and 
the bottom line is high. As a 
response to the state’s egregious 
underfunding of education, the Regents of the UC system 
trade the socioeconomic well-
being of their workers to stave 
off the uncomfortable situation 
of having to lobby for more funding. Undermining the job 
security and welfare of workers is the simplest way to drive down 
labor costs; insecure workers 
are less likely to put up a fight 
since their economic security is already on such shaky ground. 
This ambitious approach comes 
straight out of the playbook for major corporations, but in this 
case, it has not been so easy. So, 
this strike not only combats the 
relegation of the rights of workers in the UC system, it fights the 
growing commercial mindset in higher education. 
Commercialization of higher 
education represents more than 
just the growing presence of 
private corporations on UC 
campuses. Rather, it is an entire state of mind. Commercialization 
is when the Regents decide to 
increase tuition on students 
rather than lobby for funding. 
Commercialization is when 
campuses forgo the tenure track 
for professors to avoid paying the benefits. Commercialization is 
when the UC system hunts down 
the cheapest form of labor to meet 
their needs regardless of the fallout. UC 
administrations are i n s t i t u t i o n a l i z i n g 
a model of higher 
education that more 
closely resembles a 
corporate boardroom 
than a social 
service. Of course, the economics are 
not irrelevant; the 
universities cannot 
bankrupt themselves 
to supply an education. 
But the solution to the 
system’s woes is not to shift them onto low-
income workers and students like some dystopian microeconomics 
lecture. 
Higher education is 
increasingly becoming transactional; students are the 
customers and education is the 
product. As in every business, 
labor costs present the most 
troubling concern for the bottom 
line. But higher education as a public service is meant to serve a 
societal purpose, not a corporate 
interest. It intends to enlighten 
our population and bolster 
our workforce, so ignoring the 
human consequences of this 
service undermines that goal. Just as it is imperative that workers’ 
strike when their conditions are 
unfair, it is imperative that the 
UC system seek to maximize its 
public good. By: Chris Robertson  // Opinion EditorThe di fficulty of finding 
people with mutual 
interests has stood the test 
of time, but in a virtual community such as online gaming, someone can immediately find people 
who share similar interests and preferences. The new technology 
that emerged in the early 2000s and the introduction of home gaming consoles opened up a market for online users to interact with millions of other people around the world, and thus a new community was born. However, agressive online behavior in the community has given it a reputation for being misogynistic and hostile. 
Gaming communities are 
by no means identical; they are extremely multifaceted, re flecting 
a diverse population and its 
equally diverse interests. This 
culture has grown from friends 
playing Pac-Man in an arcade to a global community that is alive 24/7 playing its favorite games 
and chatting with adversaries. 
However, what has not changed is the male-dominated gaming culture which excludes those who could threaten it, especially women. Some men perceive the gaming world as a virtual “locker room, ” and when women p a r t i c i p a t e , it threatens the “not PC” discourse they enjoy. From 
this pervasive 
misogyny in 
how women 
are treated and portrayed in gaming circles to the macho aggression that many gamers expel, gaming communities have progressively become hostile outlets for hatred.
The casual sexism in gaming 
culture exists in many forms 
and has been present since at 
least the 1990s with the advent of Lara Cro ft: Tomb Raider 
and her cartoonish levels of objecti fication. In order to 
increase sales, game creators increased her sex appeal. Even today, the women portrayed in video games are still very sexualized and assume secondary roles with very few made the protagonist. The advertising 
toward the straight male’s gaze decreases the appeal of playing such games for some women, contributing to the the smaller proportion of women present in gaming circles. This 
compounds with the amount of sexual harassment and abuse that women are subjected to on online gaming threads. Those 
who spew misogynistic and sexist comments are called “griefers, ” who target women and create a very unhealthy environment for them. Even though these female gamers might have the same wants and interests when gaming online, they can therefore be compelled to choose a male avatar to avoid this unwarranted harassment. The lack of targeted 
advertising to women, in addition to rape jokes and other toxic and sexist language, cause women to 
avoid such a type of escapism and 
to pursue other forms of similar leisure. 
Aggression and harassment 
online can take the form of homophobic, racist, as well as sexist remarks. Given this fact, how could gaming be a positive form of stress relief, when the participants are displaying this aggressive and hostile behavior? “Raging” is a consistent phenomena across most types of gaming communities, but depending on the di fferent 
communities, the types of raging can vary as well. Research has suggested, that the players are not inherently aggressive nor does the imagery of a game 
lead to hostility, but rather 
the lack of mastery causes the player frustration. Isolation can influence how a player rages, and 
guarded by an online name which 
masks one’s true identity, can lead to hate. If a gamer is continuously beaten by their opponent it opens the door for antagonism and thus harassment.
Therefore, the 
gaming culture 
is portrayed and 
seen by others 
as an inherently 
aggressive and 
hostile and has instigated many scienti fic studies to ascertain 
whether there is a link between this gaming behavior and aggressive behavior found in criminals. These studies 
consistently found that feelings of 
failure and incompetence, not the 
violent content in video games, foster aggression. Their level of 
hostility when playing Angry Birds and World of Warcra ft are 
the same. Therefore, gaming is 
not the cause of aggression,  just like any other type of community, there will be people who express their frustration in di fferent 
ways. If there is a medium that monitors this negativity, then it would only increase the number of users and become a positive source of interaction. 
Online gaming is a shared 
experience that doesn’t have to occur only online. There are 
numerous conferences and forums that bring di fferent 
gamer communities together to create a diverse culture. Gaming communities could be a potential source of empowerment, if they become more inclusive and accepting of women, in addition to limiting the amount of hate expelled online. 
The decision to strike 
follows a report that 
found that the UC system 
perpetuates the growing 
income inequality of 
women and workers of 
color.
Strike Out 
Privatization 
In Public Education
Aggression 
and harassment 
online can take 
the form of 
homophobic, 
racist, as well as 
sexist remarks.By Clarisse Vazquez // Sta ff WriterUsing and 
Abusing Online 
Gaming
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Veganism is a diet 
that is beneficial to many in creating 
a healthy lifestyle, helping the environment, or even in cleansing the body. However, there is an unfortunate sect of “vegan culture” that chooses to use controversial and often misleading information to encourage meat eaters to become vegans. While their romaine hearts are in the right place, their actions cause their audience to turn away from veganism and reject the practice entirely.
First, it is important to 
acknowledge that veganism has numerous societal benefits. One of the most common arguments in favor of veganism is that it helps reduce the amount of animals killed for human consumption. According to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, when one goes vegan, they eliminate the consumption of nearly 200 animals every year. Likewise, going vegan helps to reduce one’s carbon footprint. A study conducted by Springerlink, a think-tank in the United Kingdom, found that vegans maintain an average carbon footprint of 6.4 pounds of carbon dioxide per day, compared to the 12.4 pounds from low-level consumers who eat between 1.7 and 3.5 ounces of meat a day. Finally, veganism can be very good for the body, as going vegan has been observed to reduce the risk for chronic illnesses like heart disease and various cancers.
Unfortunately, organizations 
that advocate for veganism can fail at convincing the public to go vegan due to controversial tactics that maintain a certain level of hypocrisy. PETA is well-known for its controversial advertisements that play with emotions rather than providing solid evidence for veganism. In 2003, PETA produced posters depicting concentration camps from the Holocaust side by side with pictures of livestock, one of which carried the phrase: “To animals, all people are Nazis.” Rather than discussing the facts about animal cruelty, PETA crossed a line by equating livestock treatment to that of human beings in the Holocaust. These types of scare tactics conjure up offensive, simplistic images that push the intended audience away from veganism.
Controversy aside, 
hypocrisy is another aspect of organizations like PETA that has gotten them into a pickle. While its namesake, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, gives the impression that PETA will do all within its power to maintain positive and healthy lives for animals within its care, the opposite is true. An article in The Atlantic leaked that, in 2011, PETA euthanized 713 dogs and 1,211 cats that went unadopted at their shelters. For a group that advocates for the humane treatment of animals and for veganism, these statistics do not bode well for its legitimacy, as it contradicts the main goals of the organization.
This is not to say that everyone 
advocating for veganism is hypocritical, nor is it implying that the credibility of a vegan lifestyle is tarnished, as veganism is actually gaining more of a following. However, PETA is just one of many organizations that hinder the veganism debate with its short-sighted practices. Appealing to people’s senses of logic rather than emotions creates a convincing argument when discussing veganism. Leading by example cuts out the hypocrisy of some arguments, giving the push to veganism all the more legitimacy. Only then will the public be more open to veganism and may in turn choose to practice a diet that is host to numerous health and environmental benefits.
PUBLIC NOTICE
The University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego), as the 
lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act, 
has prepared an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative
Declaration (IS/MND) for the Mesa Housing Pedestrian
and Bike Bridge Project.    
The proposed project would construct a bicycle and pedestrian 
bridge over the Central Canyon on the east side of the UC San 
Diego campus, connecting Medical Center Drive to Miramar 
Street. The primary objectives of the project are to provide a 
direct link for campus pedestrians and bicyclists to move 
between the Mesa Housing Neighborhood on the east campus 
and the west campus without using local City roadways and to 
provide a designated, secure route for pedestrians and bicyclists 
to reach the Gilman Bridge currently in construction over 
Interstate 5. The project’s IS/MND has been tiered from the 
UC San Diego 2004 Long Range Development Plan 
Environmental Impact Report. Based on the IS/MND, it has 
been determined that the proposed project will not have a 
significant effect on the environment that cannot be mitigated 
to a level of insignificance. 
Copies of the Draft IS/MND can be viewed online at 
http://plandesignbuild.ucsd.edu/planning/environmental.html
#Projects-Currently-Under-Enviro or by contacting the
UC San Diego Campus Planning Office at (858) 246-2914.
The public review period will extend from April 12, 2018 to 
May 14, 2018. Comments regarding the content or accuracy of 
the IS/MND should be emailed to env-review@ucsd.edu, or 
mailed to: Lauren Kahal, UC San Diego, Campus Planning, 
9500 Gilman Drive MC 0074, La Jolla, CA  92093-0074. 
Commenters must send responses no later than 5:00 p.m.
on May 14, 2018.  
By Jacob Sutherland // Sta ff WriterA Meaty 
Approach to Veganism WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
Jacob Sutherland  Jsuther@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
The 2016 presidential election is considered to be one of, if 
not the most, controversial American elections of all time. Contradicting ideologies spurred by the canditures of Hillary 
Clinton and President Donald Trump further divided America and fueled resentment among people on all sides. With additional drama unfurling around issues such as emails, tax returns, and Russian involvement, the presidential race seemed more like a TV show than a landmark political event. At times, it was hard to believe it was true. 
John Muir College senior Johnny Echavarria, a music humanities 
major and campus-wide senator for the arts and humanities, writes and stars in “Whitelash, ” a hip-hop musical about the 2016 presidential election. Set on a college campus, “Whitelash” follows nine students of various backgrounds and opinions as they navigate life during one of the most politically charged eras of all time. The characters are personally impacted by what Echavarria calls “the clashing of ideologies present during the election” and struggle to reconcile their politics with their relationships.
Each character in “Whitelash” is a case study in different perspectives. 
There’s a Trump supporter who falls in love with an Iranian refugee, a sorority girl obsessed with her political image on social media, a father disagreeing with his son, a Bernie Sanders supporter, a Hillary Supporter, a DACA recipient, a Black Lives Matter activist, and multiple characters with vacillating opinions. But despite the fact that the musical delves deep into each viewpoint, it doesn’t present one side as inherently better than any other. It instead examines the messy nature of political debate and how politics are ultimately present in every human interaction — especially when it comes to a diverse place like a college campus. 
Echavarria chose a college campus as the setting not only because 
it’s relevant to his target audience’s experience (they experienced the election during their college and early voting years), but also because it’s the perfect place to present dissenting opinion and constructive dialogue. Students come from all over the world to attend UC San Diego and they bring their unique perspectives with them. However, the opinions shared on this campus don’t always necessarily come from UCSD students. Anyone is allowed to physically be at UCSD because it is a public school, and non-students frequently take heed of that. Many of them can be found preaching their opinions (often hate-based) to passersby on Library Walk. 
Echavarria was also exposed to the different politics of different 
places as a canvassing director in Sanders’ presidential campaign. He took a semester off from school to participate and was deeply influenced by the people he met and the stories he heard. 
“We went to Oregon, Arizona, Nevada, Washington, different parts 
of California, and just went into different communities to talk to people, ” he recalled. “I got to meet a bunch of different communities and see that there are all these different narratives that go on in these different communities and in these different groups. It got so fascinating to study people — like the sociology of people, the interaction. ”
It was because of this interest that he decided to incorporate a 
experience from the campaign trail into the show. 
 “I was with a lot of Latino and Black people who felt a very specific 
way about Hillary Clinton, ” he said. “They did not like her. One of the big climaxes of the first act is basically a real event when she came to East LA to give a speech at a community college on Cinco de Mayo. A lot of people there felt that it was pandering. And so there was a protest. There was this whole confrontation between Clinton supporters and Sanders supporters, and there were these random Trump supporters. It was like people colliding and stuff, and it was on the news. I felt it was an interesting and very important narrative that wasn’t really told in mainstream media. ”
Of course, the mainstream media plays a direct role in determining 
which stories are told, often ignoring marginalized perspectives. Echavarria makes sure to include unpopular and underrepresented perspectives. He was partially inspired by Paulo Freire’s political theory book “Pedagogy of the Oppressed, ” which argues that oppression can be overcome when marginalized groups gain direct involvement in educating others about their struggle. Echavarria applies this teaching model to the stage in “Whitelash” by having characters of various backgrounds explain the reasons for their personal beliefs, he invites the audience to understand and respect their opinions.
However, the diverse perspectives written into “Whitelash” raise the 
question of appropriation in writing: If Echavarria doesn’t know what it’s like to be the daughter of Iranian refugees, is it OK for him to write her story without firsthand knowledge of her experience? Would this be perpetuating stereotypes? Who is allowed to tell whose story?
Echavarria was fully aware of his responsibility as a storyteller. Both 
he and Nicole Lopez, the actress playing the character, conducted extensive research to make sure that the people whose perspectives were being represented were personally involved in the process. 
“It’s based off real people that I’ve known and talked to a lot, ” he 
explained. “I’ve actually asked: ‘Is it OK if I use certain things about you in characters?’ and talked to them and interviewed them even more. I felt like they all feel pretty comfortable with the material that’s specific aspects of them. ...We talked to people from Iran, because one of the main characters is from Iran. We actually went to Muslim Student Association meetings here at UCSD for when it wanted to reach out to the community. It was really great to talk to people and explain what we were doing. Everyone has been really open to it, from different political and social backgrounds, so it’s been cool. ”
This unity and openness to other opinions is the main theme of the 
show, and the title specifically references this message — although it may seem like otherwise. “Whitelash” is a term coined by the CNN political commentator Van Jones on the night of the election. Jones described Trump’s election as “a whitelash against a changing country” and as “a whitelash against a black president. ” He argued that it was necessary for Trump to apologize to those he had offended and unify the country. In his opinion, everyone needed to come together despite their differences. 
Echavarria’s show, and especially the lyrics, reflect this idea of unity. 
The characters develop as they learn to empathize with each other, and once the election results are announced, all come together and sing “I love my friends, the ones I met, so let’s not call this the end. ” 
Even though Echavarria wrote the show almost two years ago, 
Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman Jolie Andersen, a theater major  
Understanding different political 
perspectives is 
necessary now more 
than ever. “Whitelash, ” 
an independent hip-
hop musical, analyzes the politics of the 2016 election and the ways in which America can move forward. 
By Lara Sanli // Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHNNY ECHAVARRIA“Whitelash ” 
Student 
Theater  Delves 
into  Politics 
and  the  Value 
of  Unity
SeeWHITELASH , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
TRITON FUNDS: 
Creating the Pipeline to Finance
 
UC San Diego doesn’t have an undergraduate 
business major, though other adjacent majors — like international business — or minors exist. Y ash 
Thukral, a Thurgood Marshall College junior double majoring in applied mathematics and management science, is working 
to create a pipeline from UCSD into the finance world with his 
new student-run investment fund, TRITON FUNDS.
Thukral founded TRITON FUNDS in Winter Quarter of 
2018 with two friends, Nathan Yee, another Marshall junior, and longtime childhood friend Sam Yaffa, who is currently a junior studying at California State University, Northridge. Disappointed with the gap between alumni and students and 
frustrated with the lack of proper work for interns, the trio had 
an idea to create a fund where students could get experience in finance, investing, private equity, and venture capital by working with alumni mentors.
“We went to the streets of La Jolla, Prospect Street, where 
the financial area is, ” Yash said. “We had a few mentors back our idea, and said, ‘look: you paper trade this fund, create a brand, create something sustainable, something that actually makes sense for the students involved to grow. All the investors 
and mentors want to give back to students and help them 
grow. ”
In fact, TRITON FUNDS now has over 20 mentors. 
Thukral rattles off a short list of examples: Mitch Thrower, the founder of events.com; Howard Leonhardt, who runs various technology and medical operations in southern California; and Jeff Moorad, former CEO and minority owner of the San Diego Padres. Many of the academic mentors are graduates of UCSD or current staff and faculty.
Since its founding, TRITON FUNDS has built connections 
directly into UCSD’s career systems; it’s now part of Port Triton, HireRady, and the Academic Internship Program. Amazingly, because of this integration, it’s even possible to get academic credit for general education requirements or a business minor for working at TRITON FUNDS. More importantly, students get direct experience with real work.
“If you’re doing an internship somewhere else… I’m trying 
to be PG, ” he paused, and gave up. “You do b****-work. 
Especially in this industry, investment banking and private 
equity, if you’re in college and you’re a first, second, or third year, you’re not going to be doing anything worthwhile. You’re going to go on a laptop, you’re going to sit there, and you’re going to do Excel work. Maybe some research that’s going to be outdated by the time they try implementing it anyway. We hated that. We said no, that’s not what we want to do. ”
In other private equity internships there simply isn’t enough 
time to watch an entire deal flow from beginning to end. Thukral says that “by the time you get an internship and leave, you won’t even have been on a call with a company. ”
Instead, students working at TRITON FUNDS get to do 
whatever they’re passionate about over a longer timeframe. The investment fund has blog and website managers, finance 
interns, a crypto trader, and a fund accountant.
“You walk in, you say you want to look at this company. 
You find these companies online, where you want to look, 
any companies you know in whatever industry you want. You do your research on that company and the whole industry and compare side-by-side. ” This quarter, they are focusing on consumer products, life sciences, and internet technologies.
This form of experience is incredibly useful to UCSD 
students of all majors; many students pursue entrepreneurship 
after college and hands on experience is invaluable no matter 
the field. Students that are a part of this program will come in as students and leave with the experience to start their own fund or company.
Investors at TRITON FUNDS are subject to investing in 
public companies. Thukral explains that since public companies’ financial statements and records are very transparent, students can examine them to see why a public company is successful. In comparison, private companies aren’t as transparent: While 
they can be successful, it’s hard to know the step taken to 
achieve that success. At TRITON FUNDS, where education is the primary objective, it’s extremely helpful for students to see the full process in order to analyze it. Thukral notes that every student that has been with TRITON FUNDS has now seen full deal flow, from the first call to close.
While most would assume a fund run completely by 
students is quite a risky venture, Thukral says people have expressed interest not in spite, but because of that aspect.
“So many companies that we’ve called, the first that they’ve 
said is, ‘I don’t like to take a lot of these calls because people try coming to us for money, investment opportunities, and we want to be with the right people. We took this call because we knew you were students. We like giving back and understand it’s an educational opportunity for you as much as it is for us, ’” Thukral explained enthusiastically. “ Alumni love it. We 
got mentors on board just because we’re a student-run group. 
[Representatives from the Rady School of Management and the UCSD School of Medicine] spoke with us and said, ‘We love the idea. We’re contributing because you’re students. ’”
Thukral also describes other various success stories: For 
example, a blog post analyzing precision medicine and the healthcare industry by Joe Cretella, a senior Earl Warren 
College student. He also cites the invaluable experience gained 
from the fund’s cryptocurrency trader, Alec Wilson, educating the entire staff on the intricate functions of the technology that powers Bitcoin, the blockchain.
TRITON FUNDS only started this year, but Thukral already 
has big plans for the future. While it’s possible to get academic credit for general education and business minor electives, Thukral hopes to extend that course credit to economics and communications departments in the future.
He also hopes that TRITON FUNDS will be able to attract 
larger companies to recruit at UCSD. During his first few years of college, Thukral was extremely anxious about his prospects after graduation. UCSD’s business school is good but still lacks the prestige to draw high-profile companies.
“Big corporations don’t recruit from here, ” Thukral said. 
“We’re great in what we learn, but at the end of it, if no corporations come and recruit, where do we go?”
At TRITON FUNDS, mentors and alumni provide a place 
where anyone interested in finance can come and learn. Thukral clearly understands the value of the classroom, but also knows that it’s a means to an end. 
“You learn so much in the classroom; I never want to put 
down what you learn in the classroom. But so much of what you learn in the classroom becomes obsolete by the time you use it in the world. ”UCSD isn’t particularly well-known for fi nance, but 
Yash Th ukral and Nathan Yee are hoping to change 
that with a new investment fund run by students.▶ WHITELASH , from page 6
Timothy deng   tideng@ucsd.eduacting in the musical, believes it is still extremely 
relevant. 
“I think this is actually the best time [for the show] 
because people have finally settled down out of that very shaky state where we’re just learning that people are Trump supporters and Hillary supporters, ” she said. “It’s like we’re discussing the deeper values of it and bringing our country together. ”
The cast and crew of “Whitelash” has been working 
on the production since Week 0 of this year. “Whitelash” struggled to receive departmental support, and it is a completely student-run, independent show funded 
by its own cast and produced by the student theater 
organization Company 157. This show is important — it makes the audience think more than they probably do in the classroom — and demonstrates exactly why the arts matter. 
Muir College senior Sofia Zaratoga, a theater major 
and undergraduate representative for the theater department, is directing “Whitelash. ” She hopes that viewers can recognize the importance of the 2016 election and understand the significance of living through it. Hopefully, “Whitelash” can inspire important conversations and teach a valuable lesson about unity.
 “I really want [the audience] to look at this as a 
dialogue within the people, ” she said. “Because I feel like 
we do frame people — whether they be Republicans, 
or Democrats, or Independents — as having very valid opinions and still being humanized and responsible for their actions and their thoughts and being able to justify them as well. I really don’t think that this show ends with the fact that one side is better than the other. For people who still think it’s biased, I’ d still love for them to come out and see it and know that the message at the end is that we are all Americans. We might have some problems, but we still all share the same space and should coexist together. ”
By Timothy Deng
// Features Co-EditorLara Sanli    lsanli@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON FUNDSA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
We can’t offer much insight on how to pass that organic chemistry lab, but we 
can tell you where to find some free tea or get a cheaper flight back home. Check out 
these tips and tricks to navigate campus and San Diego!
Sips and Snacks
• Club Med in the UC San Diego School of Medicine takes Dining Dollars and is a great place to go if you want to feel like you’re eating off campus. The wraps are a much healthier alternative when you’ve had Goody’s five meals in a row. 
• Or try Bella Vista Social Club and Caffe, situated across from The Village, 
which offers an array of Italian fare and a view of the Pacific. Though it doesn’t 
accept Dining Dollars, it’s the perfect, walkable off-campus venue for a more 
special night out.
• If you’re tired of chain coffee, Muir Woods Coffee House offers specialty teas 
and coffees for any mood. Pro tip: try the Polar Bear or Blue Lady tea latte. 
• The Zone, located next to Jamba Juice in Price Center Plaza, offers 
complimentary DIY loose-leaf tea bags, mugs, and hot water when you need a cuppa before class.
• Pick up free groceries from the Triton Food Pantry — each student gets 10 
points each week to spend on whatever is in stock. 
• Use the ever-handy student ID card for a 10-percent discount at select grocers, 
like Whole Foods Market or Bristol Farms. Kombucha doesn’t come cheap friends.
• Be sure to stop by Convoy Street in Kearny Mesa. Y ou’ll be sure to run into 
other UCSD students looking for various types of Asian food.
• Late night cravings? Check out Lestat’s in Hillcrest to satisfy a 24/7 caffeine 
need, Lil’ Dipper off of Regents Road for ice cream sandwiches, Tea ‘n’ More in Clairemont Mesa for boba until midnight, or Vallarta’s for carne asada at 2 a.m.
• BJ’s Restaurant & Brewhouse has discounts on its famous pizookies every 
Tuesday and Wednesday. There are also happy hour discounts during the weekdays!
• Keep up with the ResLife Facebook pages. RAs usually host events within your 
college that give away free food!
• If you find yourself off campus on a Monday, 85C Bakery offers any sized coffee 
for only 85 cents — a steal!
• Bring your own mug to any on-campus market for 20 cents off your drink 
purchase. 
Commute
• Be sure to pick up your student Metropolitan Transit System sticker during 
Week 0, it is your pass to travelling around San Diego’s bus and trolley system
• Get to downtown San Diego for free! Take a bus to the Old Town Transit Center 
and transfer to the Green Line trolley to hop off near Little Italy or Gaslamp. 
• Use the A.S. Students discount code for Lyft, to save money on your first 10 
rides.
• Need to get to La Jolla Village Square from campus? Try the 101 over the 201 or 
202 route for guaranteed* seating and respect for personal space.
• If you need to go shopping but don’t want to take the bus, you can rent out one of the campus Zipcars located in the parking lot next to Peterson Loop.
• If you are heading off campus, tell your Uber or Lyft driver to meet you at the Peterson or Mandeville loop. These are well-known rideshare stops.
• If you have classes in Revelle College or South Campus, take either the SIO 
shuttle or the 30 bus to Naga Way.
Entertainment and Excursions
• PC Box Office offers discounts for students looking to purchase anything from 
movie tickets to amusement park passes. 
• Check out the plays being offered at La Jolla Playhouse, UCSD students can 
often get a theater experience for no more than $10. 
• AMC in La Jolla Village Square offers $5 movies every Tuesday. • Take the 101 bus toward Oceanside to explore the hiking trails at Torrey Pines. They are pretty easy for beginners, and the view is incredible.
• Outback Adventures offers student-led camping trips to various place nearby 
(Anza Borrego, Joshua Tree, Death Valley etc.). Y ou can also rent out any equipment if you want to go off the beaten trail.
• Have a cultured, art museum gallery moment at the La Jolla Contemporary Art 
Museum; students can get free access with their ID card.
• Be sure to check out the game rooms in PC. They have everything from pool 
to arcade games.
Rest Stop
• Need a place to nap? Third floor of PC across from the Student Life Business 
Office offers prime real estate for a 15-minute doze or hour-long snooze. 
• The Zone at PC has comfy bean bag chairs for you to take a nap on between 
classes.Therapy Fluffies on Thursdays to and Arts and Crafts on Tuesdays can help you destress.
• PC lawns or the Old Student Center hump offer the perfect amount of green 
and shade to enjoy a quick lunch, hammock session, or study break. 
Travel
• If you’ve got the travel bug but finances are low, use websites like STA Travel or 
StudentUniverse that give you student discounts when booking flights. 
• Dreamed of living next to the Eiffel Tower or practicing your Korean in Seoul? 
Studying abroad may be more accessible than you think. Head to the Study Abroad Office in Matthew’s Quad to speak with peer advisors or counselors for more information. 
• Southwest Airlines is the best for in- and out-of-state students who are first 
moving to San Diego. Y ou get two free checked bags, a carry-on, and a personal item with your flight ticket.
• Always make sure to check UCSD’s Free and For Sale Facebook page for shared 
rides during holidays and breaks. (This page also offers deals on furniture, 
housing, clothing, etc.)
*Guarantee cannot always be guaranteed. But the 101 promises a much more 
comfortable transit route that doesn’t involve being shoved into the next person’s 
armpit. Hack City: San Diego's Seaside Secrets, Snacks, and 
Stops
by Lifestyle Staff
Welcome to May! To many, May means springtime, longer daylight hours, and the excitement 
of the approaching summer on our minds. Something that May also encompasses is mental 
health awareness. As I am never one to pass up the opportunity to promote conversation around this topic, it seems fitting that I share with you how I got to say goodbye to April and step into 
May with my own mental health in mind. Last weekend, I attended HEART CAMP: a two-day 
workshop put on by Jamie Tworkowski, founder of To Write Love on Her Arms. TWLOHA is a nonprofit that raises awareness for mental health and uses the money it receives to help fund treatment and counseling for those struggling with mental illness. For two days, 40 of us gathered to discuss mental health, writing, being authentic, self-care, and all of the hard and beautiful 
things that we come across in life. I had no idea what to expect of this weekend, but I walked away 
with more than I ever could have imagined.
Being the awkward, socially anxious person I am, I walked into the room absolutely terrified. 
I stumbled on my words while I introduced myself, stood in awkward silence, and pretended to 
have important text messages to attend to. I felt positive that there was a mistake along the way 
and I was not meant to be a member of HEART CAMP . I appeared to be the baby of the group, being only 18, and ages ranged from mine to late 30s. I worried that being younger than everyone else would somehow undermine or invalidate anything I had to share. I sat quietly at my table waiting for the first session to start and once it did, I felt a shift. 
One of the first things Jamie brought up at the start of HEART CAMP was that age doesn’t 
matter here. We’re all here for most likely similar reasons: passion about mental health, experience with mental illness, fans of TWLOHA, or a search for community. Jamie reminded us all of HEART CAMP’s slogan, “Y our heart is welcome here, ” and it began to dawn on me: When 
Jamie tells us that, it applies to everyone in the room, including me. 
As HEART CAMP went on, we participated in several workshops that encouraged us to share 
our authentic selves. In one workshop, we discussed the importance of self-care and what that 
might look like for us. We asked ourselves questions. What is something we want to say “yes” to more? What is something we’ d like to work on letting go of? We talked about boundaries, and it 
felt good to be surrounded by people who also haven’t quite learned how to say “no” yet — we’re 
working on it though. It’s impossible to put the whole HEART CAMP experience into words (and it would also take way too many pages!). Instead, I can put together what I learned and will always take with me:
Be vulnerable. Let others hear you and your story. Y ou don’t need to be “strong. ” Y ou deserve 
to lean on others and you deserve to give yourself some grace. Y our story matters, so let it be heard.
Keep writing. Let it all out! Pick up a pen, and don’t lift it from the paper. Write a letter to someone you love. Send it (or don’t). Try not to judge your writing too harshly either because 
they’re your words and your truths, not anyone else’s. Also, you don’t need to be published to call 
yourself a writer. Y ou can be a student, a friend, an athlete, an avid Parks and Recreation fan, and a writer. Y ou get to decide. 
What can you do to show compassion for your heart and what it needs? Some responded with 
“kindness and and a good book, ” “soft blankets and a big hug, ” or “a cup of tea and my favorite show. ” Remember to take time and ask yourself this question, too. 
I didn’t think I would walk into HEART CAMP and leave with 40 new friends. I didn’t open 
up too much at HEART CAMP itself, but when I left, I felt strangely closer to each one of these 
attendees than I did during my two days with them. Now we have a Facebook page where we 
update each other, share our writing, our stories, and encourage each other with love and support. 
As we move through May, take time for your mental health. Practice self-care and make room 
in your schedule for those who are important to you. Go outside and take in as much of sunny 
San Diego as you can. Find whatever feels right for you and do it! Remember to take care of 
yourself this month (and every other month) because your story is important, and your story is meant to keep going.Making Room for Mental Health by Colleen Conradi // Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF KENNETH WESTPHALLIFESTYLE           THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
http://registrar.ucr.edu/docs/2017-18-UCR_GeneralCatalog.pdf#page=4
 Be one in a million
It’s our di fferences that can make the  
difference in medical breakthroughs. 
For more information:
Call: (858) 265-1711
Email: allofus@ucsd.edu  
health.ucsd.edu/joinallofus
Visit us Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.  
All of Us  Clinic  
UC San Diego School of Medicine
9500 Gilman Drive, Building 851
La Jolla, CA 92093
Behind the Medical Education and Telemedicine Building
All of Us and the All of Us logo are service marks of the  
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.You will receive 
compensation of  
$25 after  
you complete  
your visitThe academic year may be wrapping up soon, 
but there is still a-plenty happening around our 
neck of the woods. Here are a few noteworthy 
events occurring on and off campus:
Gifts from Deaf Culture: May 9-10 at 6 p.m., 
Atkinson Hall, Admission: Free
Hosted by the UC San Diego Department 
of Linguistics, and entirely in American 
Sign Language, this two-night event aims to bring awareness and appreciation for the deaf 
community at UCSD. Performances describe 
the complexity of communication between two worlds and aim to create a space to learn from our deaf community. 
San Diego Surf Film Festival: May 9-12 at 
various times, Misfit Gallery (565 Pearl St.), Admission: $5+
The San Diegan surf culture leaves nothing 
untouched. At this film festival, focused on 
international surf films and art, there is much 
to see and do through the lens of sand and surf. There are even “surfing expression sessions” and “salty surf housing demos. ” 
Ocean Beach Kite Festival: May 12 at 10 
a.m., Point Loma Peninsula (Dusty Rhodes Park), Admission: Free
Enjoy Sunset Cliffs while flying kites. Need 
we say more? 
Festival of Arts in North Park: May 12 at 
11 a.m., North Park Main Street (3939 Iowa St.), Admission: Free or $25 for beer and food sampling ticket
Come and support local artisans at this street 
fair featuring art, music, crafts, and food. Set to the backdrop of the hip and happenin’ North Park neighborhood, this is the perfect all-day, interactive event that will draw out anyone’s inner 
creative being. 
Crafter Hours: May 10 at 5 p.m., Mingei 
International Museum (1439 El Prado), 
Admission $55, Must Be 21+, registration requiredTest out those Pinterest thumbs at the Mingei 
Museum in Balboa Park during an evening of crafts and libations. Crafts include floral bath 
salts, embroidery and silk screening, so make 
sure to leave the macaroni and glitter glue at home.
Beach Soccer Jam: May 19-20, Mission Bay 
and Beaches (1550 Fiesta Island Rd), Admission: Free, Teams Must Register
By mid-May, spring should officially be in 
season, so come and play soccer, learn Brazilian Samba, and enjoy a Beer Garden with the Pacific in the background.
Fiesta Botanica: May 26 at 10 a.m., Balboa 
Park House of Hospitality, Admission: Free
Balboa’s blooms are on display at this 
horticultural event. Check out garden and butterfly tours, sketch or buy some plants and enjoy the flora.
Short T ales from the Mothership: May 31 
at 6:30 p.m., Seuss Room. Admission: Free, registration required
Part of Geisel Library’s micro-fiction project, 
this space for storytelling highlights the work 
done by science fiction and fantasy writers in a 
mere 250 words, in order to mirror the work of George Hay’s postcard stories series. And if you’re interested in presenting your own short space 
story, applications can be sent to Scott Paulson at 
spaulson@ucsd.edu by May 25. 250 words only though, earthlings. 
Grunion Run: May 31 at 10:30 p.m., Birch 
Aquarium at Scripps. Admission: $15 for 
members, $17 for general public, registration 
required
A tradition that rivals the likes of the Undie 
Run, this jog around La Jolla Shores gives the 
night owl and marine-fanatic a chance to watch 
the grunion fish spawn and hatch eggs at night. Definitely a new way to experience La Jolla Shores sans the typical tourist crowd that comes this time of year. May 2018 P eeks and 
P reviews by Lifestyle Staff10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
interview with a 
director:  
hea ther  lenz
The makers of “Kusama - In finity” chatted with the 
UCSD Guardian about festivals, filmmaking and all 
things Kusama.
Instagram selfies in infinity rooms 
may be the pop culture trend of the 
now, but for Heather Lenz, “Kusama - Infinity” has been a long time coming. For nearly two decades, Lenz has immersed herself in Yayoi Kusama’s polka-dotted world, documenting the life and work of an artist as transcendent as her art. Lenz and her editor and co-writer, Keita Ideno, sat down with the Guardian to discuss the fruition of a passion project 17 years in the making.
“Kusama - Infinity, ” the closing 
film of the San Diego Asian Film Festival Spring Showcase 2018, is a documentary that follows the extraordinary life of Yayoi Kusama, a contemporary Japanese artist who pursued a career against a series of obstacles spanning sexism, racism, and mental illness. Kusama’s pioneering work captured zeitgeists across multiple decades and altered the landscapes of both the American and Japanese art worlds. 
Lenz first became interested in 
Kusama while studying art history and fine arts, long before the now-famous artist’s work had been reincorporated into the public consciousness. “I was really acutely aware from the beginning that her contributions to the American art world hadn’t been properly recognized, ” Lenz told the Guardian. This cultural disconnect was embodied in a blatant void in Lenz’s collegiate arts curriculum. After a year of study, Lenz had encountered “about five women artists total. ” “Later in a sculpture class, I was introduced to her work, and it was just kind of love at first sight. Back then there was really just one catalogue about her, ” Lenz said. “I realized that not only was this a brilliant artist, but it was someone who had a very complex life who would just be a great subject for a film, and I wanted to know more about her. ... I wanted to help introduce her to a wider audience. ”
The documentary traces Kusama’s 
life from her conservative upbringing in Matsumoto, Japan to her entry into the New York City art scene in the ‘60s and her voluntary residency in a psychiatric hospital in Tokyo for the past 30 years. Each of these periods presents a unique set of hardships, and all are united by Kusama’s continued artistic output and innovation.
Kusama’s artistic journey through 
American abstract expressionism, watercolor paintings, sculptures, pop art, mirrored installations, nude “happenings” in the streets of New York, collage, and beyond provides a timeline for simultaneous personal and cultural development. Lenz also utilized photographic progressions to tell Kusama’s unique story. “Y ou can see her changing, ” Lenz said. “ As a young woman in Japan, she is dressed more conservatively ... when she first arrives in America, sometimes you see her dressed in these suit jackets that are kind of like something Jackie O would’ve worn, but then over time you see her style is evolving, eventually she’s doing happenings in a red leotard and later in the nude. ”
The beginning of the film reveals the 
trauma of Kusama’s childhood, defined by her family’s staunch disapproval of her artistic aspirations and the birth of her infamous hallucinations. In her iconic red wig and polka dotted outfit, the now 89-year-old Kusama details her inescapable childhood visions of flowers, a primary subject of her early drawings. One of the film’s interviewees attributes the rapid pace of Kusama’s obsessive, round-the-clock creation process to a residual anxiety stemming from the times in which Kusama’s mother would tear her drawings out of her hands before their completion.
The documentary exposes a 
succession of disheartening instances of artistic plagiarism, as Kusama’s white male contemporaries including Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, and George Segal profited off of groundbreaking ideas originally introduced by Kusama. This lack of recognition sent her into a deep depression, but she continued to produce, channeling her hallucinations of polka dots into her art through “infinity nets” and “self-obliteration” exhibits.
The film is largely an ode to 
Kusama’s resilience, documenting the artist’s unwavering determination to succeed and constant creative reinvention. “For me it’s about tenacity, ” Lenz said. “She just had to overcome one obstacle after another, and sometimes she would leave behind one set of problems, like when she left Japan, only to arrive in America and face a new set of problems. ... You see from a young age Kusama’s a very talented artist, but if she hadn’t been willing to keep going even when doors were closed in her face, she wouldn’t be the celebrated artist she is today. ”
In the making of “Kusama - 
Infinity,” Lenz and Ideno were presented with their own sequence of roadblocks. The film’s admittance into the Sundance Film Festival forced the expedition of the production process, sending workdays into overdrive. “We technically recut the whole film in ... two months, and that was because Keita worked every day: Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year’s Eve, New Year’s Day, ... we worked 20-hour days, we pulled all-nighters, we just worked around the clock,” Lenz said. The biggest challenge, however, according to Lenz was funding. The combined costs of international travel, translators, and licensing fees for archival footage racked up a hefty bill. The fact that Kusama held nowhere near the level of international recognition and acclaim that she does today didn’t help, either. “People aren’t going to fund a film about someone that they’ve never heard of, that’s not a proven entity, ” Lenz explained. 
Lenz’s meeting with Kusama herself 
was a process all its own. Lenz had been applying for grants for four years before receiving one, interviewing peers of Kusama and conducting other preparations. “When I finally got the grant to go to Japan ... the president of the company ... was quite surprised to find out that I didn’t have Kusama’s permission yet,” Lenz laughed. The company executive ended up accompanying Lenz to Japan and helping her secure her first interview with Kusama –– who, after months of Lenz’s preparatory conversational Japanese classes and tutoring, greeted Lenz in English with a handshake.
Over the past few years, Kusama 
has experienced a massive resurgence in mainstream popularity, bringing the artist long-deserved recognition. This pop culture explosion coincided with the making of “Kusama - Infinity. ” “It obviously wasn’t over night. … It was building and building, and every year it seemed like there was some new accomplishment or a new thing in the works. ... In 2011 and 2012, the Tate Modern Museum did a retrospective that toured different museums. ... You could see her start rising in just unimaginable ways. ... She would break an auction record for a woman artist or something like that, and these things just kept happening, ” Lenz said. Lenz acknowledged the role of social media in Kusama’s mainstream popularity, but she also knows that the work speaks for itself. “I also think ... the strength of the work is just evident, and so, it’s also the case that work she created in the ‘60s is breaking auction records and stuff like that. ... The work is just very strong whatever era it’s from, and people can see that. ”
For aspiring filmmakers, Lenz 
stressed the importance of good company. “I would just say surround yourself with good people. ” Working as both a director and producer on the documentary rendered funding efforts a critical element of Lenz’s filmmaking process. “It’s not easy to pay people, and so when you make that kind of sacrifice, and work so hard to get the money, ... you just want to have people around you that are not only talented but loyal, and have integrity. ... Y ou have to just keep trying, keep producing your art. You have to just keep going. I think that’s the main thing. That’s what I’ve been doing, throughout my career, ” Ideno said. Lenz also volunteered her own experience with “Kusama - Infinity” as a template for things to avoid as a rookie filmmaker. “Don’t pick a film that involves international travel, don’t pick a film that involves multiple languages, don’t pick a film where you have to license expensive artwork, ” Lenz laughed. “Much like Kusama had to believe in herself, as a first-time filmmaker, ... I had to believe in myself, but that doesn’t mean other people believed in me. ... And when you don’t have a track record, and you’re trying to do something big, ... it’s harder to find the support that you need. ”
However, also like Kusama, Lenz 
and Ideno have successfully delivered their work against the odds. The documentary premiered at Sundance, and since then, the two have made tweaks for their final cut, which is set to premiere in the U.S. in early September. “Kusama - Infinity” is a stunning product and reflection of long-term perseverance and a heartfelt tribute to the power of a vision.
—  Ma y a  Kleiman
A&E Associate Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF KUSAMA MOVIEñA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Learning from Literati: 
AN evening with lil y hoang and Meliza Banales
Lily Hoang and Meliza Bañales bring 
striking personality and stunning prose to UC San Diego’s New Writing Series.
Every quarter, the New Writing 
Series program treats UCSD students 
to the inner-workings of bright authors through live readings of their best works. Most recently, two UCSD Literature professors were their featured guests. Professors Lily Hoang 
and Meliza Bañales put their best foot 
forward as they dazzled the audience last Wednesday in the Geisel Library Seuss Room. 
After a warm introduction, Hoang 
approached the front of the room. Wearing her hair in a messy bun, she adjusted her cat-eye glasses. The first thing that escaped her mouth was a joke, “the past, present, and future walk into a bar — it was tense, ” and in an instant, the crowd was eating it up. Right off the bat, Hoang was charismatic, completely winning over the audience’s attention. 
The work she read revolved around 
themes of missed opportunities, loss, domestic abuse, love, drug abuse, and mental disorders, themes which “balance disappointment with boundaries. ” Hoang writes about catastrophe and how different people cope with it in different ways. Despite jet lag from her trip to Denver, Hoang reads every word with energy. She has a relaxed, but confident voice, balancing passion with nonchalance. Even as the topics go from tragic to more tragic, Hoang’s animated voice remained — not necessarily enthusiastic, but with palpable emotion. Throughout the reading she compares herself to other, more satisfactory versions of herself, referring to this person as “Other Lily. ” Hoang finds herself “salivating at all that is not [hers], ” but ends the reading with a touch of hope, teaching us about human betterment in the face of catastrophe or disappointment, and that our trials can be beat. 
Walking up to the podium with 
her iconic jeweled cane, Bañales turned to face the audience. Bañales exuded a sense of excitement, and it was clear that she was about to blow the audience away. Her booming voice filled the room with energy. The confidence with which she read makes the audience feel the weight of each word as she shares the details of Missy Fuego’s double life. Her persona, Missy Fuego, is an 18-year-old girl struggling with her identity as she juggles the pressures of being a student and a stripper. When Bañales read Fuego’s story, she embodied the story itself with all of her being. Everything Bañales did, from her expansive gesticulations to her wide range of facial expressions, the crackling in her voice, and her teary eyes, made this experience more than your average reading.  
For a while, the 
emotional atmosphere was somber as her “Survivorship Manifesto” divulged Fuego’s various experiences of coping with loss, grief, anger, and recovery. When Bañales sniffles, you can hear her Chicana accent in the way she breathes. Through the intensity of listening to Fuego’s experiences, 
Bañales ended on a hopeful note: “I 
come from a long line of growers, and I am not afraid to dig, ” she read. Bañales weaved real events with her persona’s experiences, blurring the lines between reality and fiction. Throughout a medley of tragic events, she managed to sprinkle in moments of levity with self-aware one-liners. Initially, Fuego feels like a prisoner in her own life, because she struggles to reconcile her multiple identities, but by the end of it, she is able to come to terms with and even embrace the complexities of her life. 
After both readings were finished, 
the audience was given the opportunity to ask the authors questions. One of the members of the audience asked Hoang and Bañales how they were 
able to give such a convincing reading, 
describing it as feeling “so real. ” In a heartbeat, Bañales responded by saying that to her, it always did feel real, because even in fiction the author needs to believe in their work, and so it does become real to them. Hoang simply chuckled and said “because it was real. ” 
—  Lorena  Espinoza
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF 3 AM MAGAZINE12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG A&E
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURSCameron Harris was sitting in front of a convenience store on a summer day 
in Biloxi, Indiana, when he stood up and stretched his legs. This in itself is not 
a particularly noteworthy event, however for a man whose spinal cord had been penetrated by shrapnel in Afghanistan, it sure was. After four years of being confined to a wheelchair, Harris suddenly found himself able to stand and take a couple of steps without assistance. His sister and friends don’t know what to make of it, and neither does his doctor, but that sure doesn’t stop them from trying. So begins “ Anatomy of a Miracle” by Jonathan Miles, a refreshingly modern twist on classic miracle story tropes. 
Rather than center the major part of the plot around Harriss “miracle” or 
the tragic events that happened before them, “ Anatomy of a Miracle” looks at its aftermath. Almost immediately after wavering on his weak legs, members of Harris’s town begin calling it a miracle. They praise God, and come to Harris with requests for him to pray on their behalf. One man goes so far as to make a pilgrimage to the convenience store while carrying a crucifix. Harris’s doctor, Dr. Janice Lorimar-Cuevas, however, who is not a religious nor a believer in miraculous events, scrambles to find an explanation. Her logic is that what Harris has experienced may be a rare but not indeterminable scientific phenomena, and gaining insight on it may help others like him in the future. 
All the while Harris isn’t sure what to feel. He’s not entirely sure this was a 
religious miracle, since he hasn’t been a practicing Christian since childhood, and his doctor’s lack of questions isn’t reassuring him that it was a scientific miracle. He’s not even sure how to answer the questions everyone throws at him. When a television director hears of Harris’ story, though, suddenly a marketing force beyond religion or medicine invades the scene. With every chapter, Harris, and the readers, are faced with the reality that when a miracle occurs, everyone wants to bend it for their own purposes. This allows for the making of a subvert social commentary on the entrepreneurial nature of American society, including the institution of Christianity, motives behind medicinal research, and flaneurs of miracles. One of the most refreshing aspects of this novel is the amount of consideration 
Miles gives toward the ostensibly “supporting” characters. Instead of telling this story through only Harris’ eyes, every individual is able to have their perspectives shared and backstories completely divulged. While these long, tangential narratives can draw away from the main plotline and even seem tedious at times, they all connect back to Harris’ story purposefully. For instance, the backstories of the Vietnamese couple who own the convenience store show that they had completely different childhoods in Vietnam, ranging from the husband’s wealthy, rural life to the wife’s horrific experiences on a fleeing refugee boat. As a result, they have diverging worldviews and handle witnessing Harris’ miracle and the fame it brings their store very differently. From Lorimar-Cuevas’ backstory, readers understand that her father’s reluctance to tell her the truth has led her to be determined to uncover truths and be speculative of all things deemed as miracles. While these backstories do lengthen the overarching plotline, they all weave together, allowing for the development of complex characters and a purposeful, intentional tone. 
This tone is heightened by the almost journalistic approach Miles utilizes. 
While the actual dialogue and thought processes of characters maintains a casual, conversational tone, all other commentary remains objective. The prose gives the reader the feeling that all of the events described in the book have already happened and that this is merely a retrospective account to explain it all. Quotes from characters are included as if they were given to an objective third party who is recording the whole story of the miracle. In this way, even though the reader knows that this is a work of fiction, the overall tone validates the possibility of miracles along with the book’s social messages.
Overall, “ Anatomy of a Miracle” by Jonathan Miles is a modern, fascinating 
read. It takes the familiar concept of miracles and places it in the most ordinary of settings, suggesting that fantastic events can be connected to our own times.
—  Daisy  Scott
Editorial Assistant
Anatomy  of  a  Miracle
by  Jonathan  MilesBOOK   REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF PARNASSUS MUSING “ Anatomy of a Miracle” de ftly handles the a ftermath of a miraculous event in the real world. CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
SUPER MARIO CHOCOLATE FESTIVAL SIXTH EDITION Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 7 - MAY 132018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANFRIDAY, MAY 11
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local growers 
and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
1pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR 
FORUM - GSA LOUNGE, ORIGINAL 
STUDENT CENTER
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This forum will provide a supportive space to discuss various topics from a multicultural lens, which includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with you adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, family responsibilities, relationships (romantic or social), multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc. Connect: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
4pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM - 
SIXTH COLLEGE, MAIN 
CONFERENCE ROOM
This is a supportive drop-in forum for South Asian 
(International & Asian American) and Desi- identified students earning their undergraduate, graduate & professional degree. Join us for conversations each week & build community. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES! - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come to Therapy Fluffies every Thursday from 
1:30-2:30pm! We bring a variety of trained therapy dogs to help you all unwind! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu 
7pm
GETTING IN: HOW I GOT INTO 
GRAD SCHOOL (AND SO CAN 
YOU! ) - MANDLER HALL, ROOM 
3545, MUIR COLLEGE
Hear from undergraduates who have just 
gotten accepted into competitive Master’s, PsyD, and PhD Programs in cognitive, clinical, neuroscience, and forensic/legal psychology! Contact: scp008@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES! - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come to Therapy Fluffies every Thursday from 
1:30-2:30pm! We bring a variety of trained therapy dogs to help you all unwind! Contact: zone@ucsd.edu TUE5.08
THU5.107:30pm
MOTHERS - SHEILA AND 
HUGHES POTIKER THEATRE
Three mom, a stay-at-home dad, and a 
nanny watch their kids play at Mommy-Baby Meetup. One mom is the queen bee and one is here to shake things up. The dad just wants to fit in, and the nanny doesn’t say a word. When catastrophe comes, the five of them have to figure out how to survive a war and each other. MOTHERS examines the primal heartache of raising children in a disintegrating world. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu SAT5.12MON5.07
2pm
ILEAD: YOUR RIGHT TO PROTEST 
(DOUBLE STAMP ) - BEAR ROOM, 
PC WEST, LEVEL 2
How well do you know your First Amendment 
rights? What does freedom of speech and the 
right of the people peacefully assemble mean? 
In this workshop, you will learn about freedom 
of expression and your rights and 
responsibilities when participating in 
demonstrations. Full attendance at this 
workshop will grant you 2 stamps. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
5pm
RESOURCES & RELAXATION 
SQUAD - GEISEL LIBRARY, EAST 
COMMONS
Come to Geisel East commons for a 5-10 
minute body work! It will help you relax! If you 
can’t make this time, come to The Zone on 
Wednesdays from 1-2 pm and Thursdays 6-7 
pm. First come, first serve. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
GAME OF THRONES SEASON ONE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
See it on the Big Screen! Two episodes screened 
each week. Cost: FREE for UCSD Students w/ID. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
10am
OASIS @ THE ZONE - THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come Fridays from 10 am - 12 pm for tutoring provided by Oasis! No appointment needed! Subjects offered are Math (10 & 20 series), Chemistry (4,6,7L too), Organic Chemistry, and Writing (peer review, outlines, rough drafts). Study supplies provided. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact j1soong@ucsd.edu if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets or it you are interested in sponsoring one of our cafes! Entry $5 per person. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
12pm
SUPER MARIO CHOCOLATE FESTIVAL SIXTH EDITION - SIXTH COLLEGE 
RESIDENTIAL HALLS 
OH NO. Bowser has once again taken Princess Peach. Who will save her? The Super Mario Brothers can 
along with friends Toad, Yoshi, and YOU! On May 11th, 2018, get ready to race down Rainbow Road and have a choco-LOT of fun. The journey to Bowser’s Castle starts at 12-3PM at the Sixth College Dogghouse (near the Residential Halls). Whether you start from the land of ERC / Marshall / Muir / Revelle / Warren towards the final level land: Sixth College, make sure to come out and bring your neatest pairs of overalls! Bring your cart and get ready to hop your way to Sixth College’s Annual Chocolate Festival. Contact: acantimb@ucsd.eduFRI5.11WED5.0912PM · SIXTH COLLEGE RESIDENTIAL HALLS 
6pm
SHAPE YOUR CAREER - SPRING 
2018 - LIEBOW AUDITORIUM (ROOM 2100 ), BASIC SCIENCE 
BUILDING, UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
Helping you prepare for 21st century jobs, The 
Basement and OIC have teamed together to deliver this timely series. Learn about the basic 
elements when developing an idea and starting 
a business. The program is CCR-approves, you 
must complete at least 5 sessions for CCR credit. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
MOTHERS - SHEILA AND HUGHES 
POTIKER THEATRE
Three mom, a stay-at-home dad, and a nanny 
watch their kids play at Mommy-Baby Meetup. One mom is the queen bee and one is here to shake things up. The dad just wants to fit in, and the nanny doesn’t say a word. When catastrophe comes, the five of them have to figure out how to survive a war and each other. MOTHERS examines the primal heartache of raising children in a disintegrating world. Contact: tdpromo@ucsd.edu 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
5/10
NATIONAL
SHRIMP DAYCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Bellybutton
6. Yachting10. Quiz
14. Unattended
15. Camera glass
16. Robust17. Must, slangily18. West’s opposite
19. Stratford-on-____
20. Pub mug
21. Most firmly built23. Corporate VIP25. Salty drop
26. Hush!
27. Motherly
31. One of us33. Possessive pronoun34. Knotted
36. Hollywood award
40. New spouse’s boy
43. Liberate45. Keepsake46. Kite part48. By way of49. Wooden fastener51. Against the current54. Presidential nickname57. Greek god of love59. Spud bud60. Tenor Luciano ____63. ____ Waldo Emerson67. PDQ’s kin68. Now and ____69. Farewell, to Pierre70. Go by taxi71. Shore bird72. Cozy retreats73. Summer shirts74. Unrefined metals75. RubbishDOWN
1. Pesters2. Very many (2 wds.)3. Ballot4. Lure5. Less fatty6. Pub drinks7. City in Washington8. Result9. Off the path10. Asian language11. Roof edges12. Splash13. First extra inning22. Slobber24. On top of27. Majority28. Detroit product29. Difficult journey30. Isn’t, slangily32. Consume35. Plumbing problem37. Underground chamber38. The Orient39. 500 sheets41. Brisk energy42. Scoff44. More47. Harsh50. Cavern52. Oppressive ruler53. Bookworm54. Separated55. Count ____ of jazz56. Escape58. Alternate61. Tarzan’s pals62. Lodges64. “Mona ____”65. Cherished animals66. Quiet!HOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - 
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, 
CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments community in San Diego offers pet-friendly 
one and two bedroom apartment homes 
with comfortable, spacious, and bright 
open floor plans.Our community features a large sparkling swimming pool, beautiful 
courtyards, 24 hour emergency mainte -
nance, WiFi hotspots available in common 
areas through Cox Communications......ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 - 
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, 
CA 92115. These floor plans include spa -
cious one, two and three bedrooms, some poolside or upgraded. Being located in the 
heart of the college area you will find shop -
ping centers, banks, a library, schools, free-
ways and more. WIFI hotspots in the com -
mon areas through Cox Communications, a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, 
and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE 
assigned parking, a refreshing pool and 
BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emer -
gency maintenance, and a courtyard foun -
tain. We hope you will call or stop by and 
we look forward to making The Diplomat 
your new home!....ucsdguardian.org/clas-
sifieds for more information
PART TIME JOBS
Accounting clerk. BalaCent LLP . Carlsbad, 
CA 92011. Data enter Accounts Payable and 
reconcile credit cards. 8 hours per week. Prefer Accounting Student. If candidate 
shows promise more hours may be pos-
sible. Flexible hours to fit student’s sched-ule.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationPart Time Recreational Gymnastics Coaches. 
Emerald City Academy of Rhythmic 
Gymnastics. San Diego, CA 92131. Looking 
for that special person with an upbeat, 
energetic personality. Enthusiasm required! 
The ideal candidate has gymnastics experi -
ence, loves children, and has a flexible 
schedule. Coaching experience preferred 
but we will train the right person......ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Independent Medical Sales Rep (1099). 
Script Relief. San Diego, CA 92101 USA. 
We’re looking for enthusiastic sales reps to 
go to doctors’ offices and leave behind kits 
of these cards at the reception desk and 
other accessible areas. In order to facilitate 
the process for our reps, our sales team uses a special website that provides list -
ings of available doctors in your area. We 
will also provide training to acclimate you 
to the whole business.....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Used 2006 Mazda Mazda6 Grand Sport 
i. San Diego, CA 92111. The impressive 
Mazda fuel-efficiency will make you quickly 
realize what youve been missing out on in life. Its noteworthy fuel economy and 
minimal emissions make this vehicles value a cut above the rest. In addition to being 
well-cared for, this Mazda Mazda6 has very 
low mileage making it a rare find....ucsd-guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, 
CA 92110. 4D Crew Cab, Some rebates may require you to finance through our 
preferred lender, Price includes: $1,000 - 
General Motors Consumer Cash Program. Exp. 01/31/2018, $1,000 - Silverado 
Incremental Consumer Cash....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Toyota RAV4 for sale. San Diego, 
CA 92115. Black 2015 Toyota RAV4 LE FWD six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE 
OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i 120 
Point Inspection & Full Detail Performed, 
Gas $aver, Brakes Serviced, Bluetooth, RAV4 LE, 4D Sport Utility, 2.5L Recent Arrival!...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.edufor 17’ 4.25” (5.29 meters). This 
effort landed Linn in 10th place. 
Fellow sophomore Melissa Seaman 
fouled out all 3 attempts and went 
unranked. The women’s team was 
able to score its first points during 
the pole vaulting event. Freshman 
Gabrielle Avila and senior Carly 
Heffernan went fourth and sixth 
place, respectively. Avila tied for fourth place with best jump of 11’ 0.25” (3.51 meters); Heff ernan 
was right behind Avila, coming with a best jump of 11’ 0.25’ (3.36 meters). The efforts of these two 
Tritons got the team 7.50 points. In the heptathlon, sophomore Chelsea Challacombe came in third place with a score of 4739, netting 
the UCSD women’s team 6 more 
points. Of the seven events in the heptathlon, Challacombe excelled in the jumping events, finishing 
second in high jump with a 5’ 3.25” jump (1.61 meters) and first in long 
jump with a 17’ 10.25” jump (5.44 meters).
The competition finished on 
Saturday. ▶ TRACK AND FIELD , from page 16Athletes Will be at Last Chance 
Qualifier on May 12.
Stockton, California - Riding 
a hot six-game winning streak, 
the UC San Diego so ftball team 
squared o ff against California State 
University, Stanislaus in the first 
round of the California Collegiate Athletic Association Championship. The Tritons topped the Warriors, 
4–3, and advanced to face California 
State University, Chico in the next 
round. Unfortunately, the Tritons were unable to overcome the Wildcats and fell, 0–7. Later in the day, after their loss to the Wildcats, 
the Tritons matched up against the California State University, San Bernardino Coyotes. UCSD was unable to beat CSUSB and ended 
their tournament run with a 4–11 
loss to the Coyotes.
vs CSU Stanislaus
The Tritons hit the ground 
running, scoring 3 runs within the 
first inning. Freshman catcher Bobbi 
Aguirre hit a single down the middle 
of the field to plate freshman utility 
player Sherriah Harrington. For 
their second run, senior out fielder 
Kelsi Maday batted a double right 
field to send home senior second 
baseman Kendall Baker. Sophomore utility Mikaila Reyes topped o ff the 
inning with a run batted in. Aguirre scored the run. 
UCSD’s fourth and final run came 
in the second inning, courtesy of 
Harrington. Her RBI double plated 
sophomore third baseman Danica 
Kazako ff. The Tritons remained 
runless for the rest of the game, 
weathering a run by the Warriors. 
Stanislaus State scored runs in 
the fourth, fifth, and sixth inning; 
however, UCSD locked in to close out the game. 
Freshman pitcher Robyn 
Wampler, CCAA Freshman of the 
Year, threw her 20th complete game. 
vs CSU Chico
The Wildcats scored their first 
run in the fourth inning o ff an 
RBI single down right field. UCSD 
was unable to get anything going 
but continued to fight well into 
the seventh inning. CSU Chico, 
however, went o ff for a total of 6 
runs in the seventh inning, which UCSD was unable to match. 
The Wildcats tallied a total of 12 
hits for the game — five of their hits 
came in the seventh inning. 
Wampler dropped her first game 
since April 14, falling to a 24–8 record. 
Vs CSU San Bernardino
Trying to shake o ff their loss 
earlier in the day to CSU Chico, 
UCSD looked to its game against 
CSU San Bernardino. The Coyotes came ready to play: 
They opened the first inning with 4 
runs to quickly advance to a 4–0 lead. 
UCSD answered in the third inning 
with a RBI single by Harrington to 
right field. Sophomore out fielder 
Danielle Stedman scored the run. 
Up 4–1, CSU San Bernardino replied 
with an RBI single of their own in the fourth inning to make it 5–1.
In the fourth inning, UCSD 
scored two more runs. Stedman and senior out fielder Kendall Woken 
scored o ff of a fielding error by the 
Coyotes’ catcher. The Tritons’ fourth 
and final run came o ff a RBI double 
by Aguirre. Her hit down right-center field plated Baker to keep the 
Tritons close, 5–4.
CSU San Bernardino kept its 
foot on the pedal, scoring a total of 6 runs in the sixth and seventh inning. UCSD was unable to match any of the runs made by CSU San Bernardino and watched as its 
championship hopes fizzled out. The 
Coyotes took the game, 4–11. 
UCSD has a chance to secure 
a spot in the upcoming NCAA Division II West Regional. Visit the 
NCAA website to learn more.BY richard  lu
associate sports editor
richard  lu  ril014@ucsd.eduTriton Softball Falls in CCAA 
Tournament Semi-Finals
Ranked fourth in the Western Region before the tournament, UCSD will 
probably earn a West Regional Championship berth next week.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSThis week the UC San Diego 
Tritons baseball team closed out its 
regular season with a four-game split-
location series versus the California 
State University, San Marcos Cougars. As of Friday night the Tritons have dictated the series, toppling 
the Cougars in both games by a 
combined score of 26-1.Th e Tritons 
will finish the series with a Saturday 
doubleheader on Senior Day at Triton ballpark.
Game One:
The Tritons wasted no time 
getting started on Thursday, as they 
put up four runs in the first three 
innings. Before most fans had found their seats the Tritons were up 2-0 thanks to a two-run home run by redshirt junior Zander Clarke in the top of the first inning. Clarke played 
a great game on Thursday, he finished 
the game with three hits, two home runs, an RBI triple, and four runs.
The first inning runs seemed to 
help Triton starting pitcher Mitch Hickey settle in quickly. Hickey delivered another great start for the Tritons, as he pitched 5.2 innings of scoreless baseball with eight strikeouts and only allowed four hits. 
This was Hickey’s fifth win of the year as he improved to a nice 5-3 win-loss record.
After Hickey’s departure, the 
Tritons bullpen picked up right where 
he left o ff. Relief pitchers Kyle Lucke 
and Ted Stuka finished the game out 
with a combined 3.1 innings of no run ball. Lucke and Stuka struck out 5 and allowed only 1 hit. 
As impressive as the Tritons 
pitching sta ff was on Thursday, the 
bats were even more impressive. The Tritons scored 15 total runs and 
crossed home plate in seven of the nine innings. One part of the Tritons 
offensive onslaught on Thursday was 
the team’s outstanding patience at 
the plate. The Tritons drew 8 walks 
compared to the Cougars’ 2. Tritons 
first baseman Tyler Durna led the way 
in free passes as he took 3walks and scored 2 runs.
Patience and power was the 
name of the game for the Tritons on 
Thursday. On top of the 8 walks they 
drew, the Tritons blasted 5 homers, 
including 2 in the seventh inning. Three of the home runs were by the 
Tritons’ two home run leaders, Alex 
Eliopulos who hit his 9th and Zander Clarke who hit his 12th, and 13th.
The Tritons pitched and hit nearly 
perfectly on Thursday and handled 
the Cougars with ease in the 15-0 
victory. They looked to keep that momentum going into Friday’s game.
Game Two:
The Tritons wore their hitting 
shoes again on Friday as they put up 
11 runs on 13 hits and squashed the Cal State San Marcos Cougars 11-1. 
This was the second straight night 
that the Tritons posted 13 hits and the second straight night the Tritons held the Cougars to only 5 hits.
The old adage says the key to 
scoring is “Get ‘em on, get ‘em over, get ‘em in, ” and that is exactly what the Tritons did in the first inning 
on Friday. Center fielder Brandon 
Stewart led the game o ff with a 4-pitch 
walk. First baseman Tyler Durna followed that up with a single down the right field line moving Stewart to 
third. Then DH Zander Clarke hit a 
SAC fly to left field allowing Stewart 
to score. This was the second straight 
game where the Tritons had the lead before the Cougars came up to bat. 
The Tritons added 2 more runs 
in the top of the second inning thanks to a lead o ff home run by 
shortstop Shay Whitcomb and RBI 
double by DH Blake Baumgartner. 
Baumgartner knocked in left fielder 
Keenan Brigman who had singled up the middle. In this inning the Tritons worked the count and found good pitches to hit. All 3 hits in the inning 
came on hitter’s counts. Whitcomb’s homer came on a 2-0 count, Brigman’s single came on a 3-1 count, 
and Baumgartner’s double came on a 2-0 count.
Tritons starting pitcher Preston 
Mott delivered a great outing for the 
Tritons and earned his seventh win 
of the season. Mott finished with 6 
innings pitched, 5 strikeouts, and 0 runs allowed. Mott was sharp in his 
entire outing, the Cougars were only 
able to muster up 3 hits in six innings against him and never more than one in any inning. A fter Mott exited 
the Tritons bullpen closed out the 
remaining three innings with a duo 
of right handers consisting of Blaine Jarvis and Antonio Barrios who combined for five strikeouts and one 
earned run.
Even though the Tritons were in 
command up 4-1 going into the ninth inning, they were not satisfied. The 
Tritons added another 7 insurance 
runs in the top of the ninth inning 
to extend their lead to 11-1. Most of the damage in this inning came on a 3-run home run by Baumgartner. 
This was Baumgartner’s fourth big-fl y 
of the season. Baumgartner mashed 
Cougars’ pitching all night. He went 3-4 with 4 RBIs, 1 home run, and 1 walk.
The wins on Thursday and Friday 
improve the Tritons record to 32-15 on the season, and they will look to 
make it 33 and 34 on Saturday’s double 
header at Triton ballpark. Saturday is a big day for the Tritons. Not only is it going to be Senior Day, but they will be playing for a shot at the CCAA 
Regular-Season Title. Currently 
California State University, Monterey Bay is in first place and a game ahead 
of UCSD in the CCAA standings. 
UCSD needs CSUMB to lose its 
Saturday game versus California State University, East Bay and UCSD needs to sweep both games of Saturday’s double header. It is a tough task for 
the Tritons to win both games of the 
double-header, but if they play like they did on Thursday and Friday, 
they have a great shot. Thursday’s and 
Friday’s wins however do guarantee the Tritons a top-two seed in the upcoming CCAA Championship Tournament next week.
After winning both games on 
Saturday, UCSD ends tied with CSUMB for the league lead at 30-14, but lose the tiebraker and will be the two seed in the conference tournament. 
With the tiebraker, CSUMB finishes as 
the regular season champion of the 
CCAA and will be the No. 1 seed in the tournament.
This Friday marked the start of 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association Track and Field Championship. Hosted by Stanislaus 
State University at Al Brenda Track 
at Warrior Stadium, UC San Diego participated in 11 di fferent events: 
five men’s events and six women’s events. A fter the end of the first day 
of competition, the UCSD men’s team ended in third place (out of seven teams) with 24 points, while the women’s team ended in seventh place (out of nine teams) with 18.5 points.
Men’s
In the five events the men’s team 
participated in, they were able to earn points in all five of them. The UCSD 
men’s team scored its first points 
in the long jump. A fter coming in 
fifth on his first attempt and fouling 
out of his second attempt, junior Matt Bowen was able to snatch first 
place on his third attempt with a 
24’ 9” jump (7.54 meters); Bowen 
followed up that third jump with three more jumps, all longer than 24 feet. Bowen remained at the top of the leaderboard, winning first 
place in the event and earning the Tritons 10 points. Sophomore Josef 
Polk and freshman Marco Trugui 
also participated in the long jump; their longest jumps of the day were 22’ 5.75” (sixth place) and 21’ 7.24’ 
(10th place), respectively. Polk’s 
jump also earned the Tritons 3 more points. With 13 total points earned, the long jump was the UCSD men’s team’s most successful event of the 
day. Sophomore Julian Romero was 
the only Triton to take the track for the 10000 meter run. He crossed the finish line in 32:44.41, completing the race eighth overall, gaining 1 point for the Tritons. Romero recorded his fastest lap — 1:10.52 — 
on his final lap. Seniors Josh Makieve 
and Mason Falahat took part in the 
hammer throw. On his fifth attempt, 
Makieve recorded his best throw of 
the day: 168’ 2” (51.26 meters). This 
was enough to give him sixth place 
in the event and net 3 points to the team score. Falahat’s best throw was 161’ 1” (49.11 meters), which earned 
him eighth place and 1 point for 
the Tritons. Shot putter sophomore Devin Lecakes-Jones delivered his best throw — a throw of 52’ 4.75” (15.97 meters) — on his second attempt. This throw was able to place 
him at second on the leaderboards. 
It also got the UCSD team 6 more 
points. The other Triton in the shot 
put — freshman Blake Walkowiak — also recorded his best throw on 
his second try, with a throw of 47’ 
0.75” (14.34 meters).
Women’s
The women’s team also started 
the conference championship 
off in the long jump. Sophomore 
Erikka Linn, on her first jump, leapt SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 7, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
BY LUCAS ARMSTRONG
Contributing Writer
BY Wesley Xiao
Staff Writerlucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edubaseballTritons Sweep 
Weekend Series 
with CSU San 
Marcos
UCSD finishes the season with a 30-14 record 
in conference play and will be the number two 
seed in the upcoming CCAA tournament. 
Men’s Take Second and 
Women Fourth at CCAA 
Championships
Matt Bowen was named Field Athlete 
of the Meet and Paul Doan was 
crowned Track Athlete of the Meet.
SeeTRACK AND FIELD , page 15PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
TRACK & FIELD
PHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Water Polo
Baseball
Baseball
Softball
W Rowing7 PM
12 PM 
TBATBA
4 AM5/85/9
5/105/105/11at NCAA Championshipvs CSULAat CCAA Championshipat NCAA West Regionalat Dad Vall Regatta