This past month, the University of California 
announced its increased efforts to commit 
over $7 million per year toward the creation 
and expansion of new and current programs 
alongside the devotion of more attention to hiring 
more diverse faculty members across all 10 UC 
campuses. The announcement followed the meeting that UC President Janet Napolitano held with the 
UC Board of Regents at UCLA late September.
Napolitano, Provost Michael Brown, and 
other UC representatives convened in a meeting of the Academic and Student Affairs Committee 
that explored data contained in UC’s Annual Accountability Sub-Report on Diversity.
“We know that students’ academic performance 
and career aspirations are enhanced when faculty of similar backgrounds serve as role models,” Napolitano said at the meeting. “Moreover, teaching, 
research, innovation, and service thrive when all 
members of our community are welcomed and supported. That’s what we want at [the University 
of California]. ”
In a press release posted after the meeting, the UC 
reported that in the past year, 44.1 percent of new “ladder-rank hires” were women, and 17.1 percent 
came from a demographic of underrepresented communities. The rise in the percentage of women 
faculty provided cause for continuous optimistic 
projections among those who attended the meeting. Women now account for one in three ladder-rank faculty. 
“We project accelerated growth in the number 
of ladder-rank faculty who will join UC in the next decade, in large part to educate our growing student enrollment, ”  UC Provost Brown said. “We need 
to seize this opportunity to make progress on the 
efforts to increase faculty diversity. ”
The distribution of faculty by gender and race 
or ethnicity is still substantially disproportionate when it comes to academic discipline, however. The employment of women, as well as others from racial 
minorities, is more prevalent in the non-STEM 
disciplines. This is where the UC system requires more focus, if it is to achieve further progress in the hiring and retention of  a group of faculty more 
comprehensive of gender and ethnicity. 
According to information disclosed in the Annual 
Accountability Sub-Report pertaining to new hires among varying disciplines, “With the exception 
of Life Sciences, all disciplines are surpassing the national availabilities of underrepresented 
candidates when it comes to the hiring of new 
assistant professors. ” The report declares that much of the difficulty encountered in procuring new hires 
is relative to the availability pools within fields.
More comprehensive disclosure of information is 
available on campus diversity websites.
rebeca camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.edu
The U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency bestowed on Oct. 10 a 2018 Green Power 
Leadership Award on the University of California. The UC system was 
one of the five organizations that 
won the award in the category of direct project engagement. The 
category recognizes organizations’ 
long-term commitment to green power through on- and off-site 
self-generation and physical power purchase projects. 
The EPA defines green power 
as electricity that is generated from 
environmentally friendly sources such as wind, solar, and biogas. 
According to the EPA, the UC 
system’s current green power use of 
almost 183 million kilowatt-hours 
is enough to power almost 17,000 average American homes annually. 
In addition, there is an increase in 
the amount compared to the use of 128 million kilowatt-hours in 2017.
The EPA lists the UC system 
fourth among its top 30 green power partners in higher education. This marks the second year in a row 
that the UC system has won the 
nationwide Green Power Leadership Award.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
was also named the 2018 Green 
Power Leader of the Year for her 
leading support in renewable energy. 
Back in Nov 2013, Napolitano 
announced the Carbon Neutrality Initiative, committing the UC system to generating net-zero greenhouse VOLUME 52, ISSUE 4  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 22, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Record Levels of  
Low-Income Students Admitted to UCSD
The percentage of first-generation 
freshman and transfer students 
accepted was also higher than usual.
ENVIRONMENT
BY Madeline Leon
Staff Writer
Federal Agency Recognizes UC System as Leader in Green Energy
A lifeguard tower presiding over the shores of San Diego. Hope Ho ffman-Larson // UCSD GuardianThe class admitted for Fall 2018 
contains a higher percentage of 
first-generation and low-income 
students, compared to recent previous years. Thirty-seven percent 
of the freshmen and transfer students 
are first-generation students, and 40 percent of the freshmen and transfer 
students come from low-income 
backgrounds.
Besides the increase in 
percentage, the overall number of first-generation and low-income student applicants and admitted 
students was marked by a major 
increase from previous years.  
According to UC San Diego 
Marketing and Media Coordinator Florencia Costa, “The campus received nearly 9,600 more freshmen 
[first-generation] applicants this 
year (about 98,000 applicants for Fall 2018 versus roughly 88,400 
applicants for Fall 2017), which is 
an increase of approximately 11 percent. At the transfer level, the 
increase in applications was about 6 
percent over Fall 2017. ”
Out of over 116,000 applicants, 
the second-highest number of applicants for a university in 2018, there was a 7-percent increase in 
the number of first-generation 
freshmen admitted. 
While the number of admitted 
low-income students declined by 446 freshmen and transfer students, there was an increase in those who 
accepted the offer of admission. 
For freshmen, the class admitted for Fall 2018 marked a 31-percent 
rate of low-income acceptances 
compared to last year’s 27 percent. For transfers, 34 percent of admits 
accepted the offer, compared to 32 
percent for Fall 2017.
According to the Office of 
Admissions, the increase in first-generation and low-income students for Fall 2018 can be attributed to 
factors including an overall increase 
in applicants and improvement in marketing and outreach to 
prospective students and their 
parents through school visitations. 
Costa noted that UCSD’s 
reputation for being a top public university was also a factor in the increase in percentages of 
low-income and first-generation 
students for Fall 2018.  UCSD was named the No. 1 public university 
in the nation for social mobility by By Rebeca Camacho   Senior Staff WriterUC SYSTEM
UC System Announces Initiatives to Diversify FacultyPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
NOT JUST A 
SECOND CHOICE
Cognitive Science 
is a multi-faceted 
approach to 
understanding 
human behavior. 
CLOTHES  LENDING
JONAH  HILLProper   Attire  for  Interviews
A Sit  Down  With  the  Cast  Opinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “...the platform allows 
users to dabble in 
problematic sexual 
activities such as 
race play and trans 
fetishization because 
it is built on these 
historical grounds 
of socially overt 
hypersexuality.” ”Features,   PAGE  6
MONDAY
 H 69 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 63
TUESDAY
H 71 L 62
THURSDAY
H 74 L 63
GRINDR.........................4
GARDENS.....................9
HALLOWEEN...............10
MY LIFE PLAYLIST......12
W. VOLLEYBALL.........15CAMPUS
JACOB  SUTHERLAND
GRINDR
 PAGE 4The University of California was listed as number four among the top thirty campuses in higher education.
BY Zhuoying Lin
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
See EPA,  page 3 See ADMISSIONS,  page 3A UC San Diego student has been 
arrested for stealing an estimated 
$223 of women’s underwear from 
the Thurgood Marshall College 
apartments’ laundry room. This is 
the second time a crime like this has been committed, the fi rst having 
happened last May in Sixth College.
Those familiar with the previous 
crime might have presumed that this 
was carried out by the same person; 
however, the incidence is a mere 
copycat.  
The student has been identi fied 
as sophomore David Liu from Thurgood Marshall College. As found in the UCSD Police 
Department Crime and Fire Log/
Media Bulletin, he was arrested last Monday at about 10 p.m. for 
burglary upon confessing to stealing 
the women’s underwear. 
According to an anonymous 
student, Liu has since been relocated from the Marshall apartments to another location on campus. This 
anonymous student had been cautioned by another student who noticed the alleged panty thief 
lingering around the laundry room, 
presumably waiting to strike. 
It was two weeks ago that a report 
was filed with Campus Police about 
the stolen underwear. The student 
who filed the report is a Marshall sophomore, and expressed their 
feelings toward the incident.
“I’m more frustrated than 
anything, ” the student said. “ This 
isn’t the first time something like 
this has happened to our university, 
and the solution to such misconduct 
was to relocate the culprit. In 
other words, the solution was to compromise the safety of other 
students to appease another’s. It’s 
irritating that it took so long for there to be a legitimate course of 
action. I really do value UCSD. I’m 
extremely grateful to be here, but it makes me question how much of a 
priority our safety really is. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
Student A ffairs declined to comment.
UCSD Watch Command 
Sergeant John Smart, said that this is 
still an “ongoing investigation ... and 
further information is unavailable to 
the public. ” 
Some students have expressed 
a feeling of fear from the perceived lax consequences on this matter. If students have reason to believe their 
clothing items are being stolen, they 
should contact the UCSD Police Department at 858-534-4359. 
  2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
THREE MICHAEL By Michi Sora
PROP 1 0
10. 18. 18Phone Bank + Food Party
Raza Resource Centro
Food provided by: UCSD Food Co-opThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. I 
don’t trust zippers and neither should you.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin, Christine Fan
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Marshall Sophomore Arrested for Stealing Women’s Underwear from On-Campus Laundry
The student has since been relocated on campus, but some students are worried that this won’t stop future incidents from happening.UC SYSTEM
Stephanie Begle  sbegle@ucsd.edu
follow us 
on twitter 
@UCSDGuardianBY stephanie Begle
contributing writergas from its campus buildings 
and vehicle fleet in the future. 
During the 2018 award ceremony, 
Napolitano re-emphasized the goal of the initiative. 
“We need to be bold and 
ambitious with our solutions to climate change, ”  Napolitano said in 
a videotaped speech. “For its part, the University of California has set 
a goal of becoming carbon neutral 
by 2025. Together, we can multiply 
the impact of our individual efforts. ”
At UC San Diego, a series of 
sustainable practices has been made throughout the years. The university aims to decrease the 
release of carbon dioxide in the 
areas of transportation, energy production, and waste reduction. 
Examples include, but are not 
limited to, replacing the campus fleet with over 60 percent alternative fuel vehicles and increasing bicycle 
access through the campus bikeshare 
program, Spin. 
Notably, the “solar chill,” 
a charging station powered completely by solar energy located near The Village at Torrey Pines 
and across from the Rady School of Management, was built by 
undergraduate students from the 
Jacobs School of Engineering. 
The award also comes one 
month after the UC Office of the President announced a commitment 
to use 100-percent renewable energy across all 10 UC campuses before 
2025.“Washington Monthly, ” and No. 2 
in the nation for superior education at an affordable price by “Money 
Magazine. ”
On the other hand, “U.S. News 
and World Report” ranked UCSD No. 12 among top national public 
universities in its 2018 report. This marks a decreasing trend from UCSD’s No. 9 ranking in 2017 and 
No. 4 ranking in 2016.
However, Costa noted that 
UCSD has multiple ongoing and 
nuanced initiative programs designed to encourage minority 
students to apply to the university, 
as well as programs that support current students. The Chancellor’s 
Associates Scholar Program, which 
provides scholarship and financial aid support through mentorship, 
increased its freshman class by 39 students and added two high schools 
to its roster. The Student Success Coaching Program also increased its 
number of first-generation students 
by 500 members and is now serving 1,300 undergraduates. 
A recently launched program 
coordinated by all six colleges known as the Triton Research and Experiential Learning Scholars, 
supports research opportunities for 
first-generation and low-income 
students. 
Also newly launched is the 
Tritons First website, which aims to connect first-generation students 
through an online portal. The portal includes a mobile listening 
station, to which first-generation 
faculty and staff can submit voice recordings of their stories. 
“The listening station is designed to capture best practices for navigating UC San Diego and inspire the campus community 
to learn about the students’ 
experiences when they are the first in their immediate family to attend 
a four-year university, ” Costa said.
“UC San Diego is proud to 
welcome this new class of scholars as 
they embark on a bold new chapter 
in their life as Tritons, ” Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla said in a recent 
newsletter. “Our student experience 
is designed to cultivate a passion for knowledge and offer a wealth of 
campus resources that ensures their 
success as future alumni, who will undoubtedly use their education to 
benefit the world. ”
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Several Programs Help First Generation Students Adjust to University UCSD Already Uses a Number of  Green Initiatives
▶ ADMISSIONS , from page 1 ▶ EPA, from page 1
madeline leon  m7leon@ucsd.edu Zhuoying Lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu
remember to get 
your flu shots!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Grindr’s New Kindr Initiative: A Step Forward on 
the Road to Tolerance
BY JACOB SUTHERLAND // SENIOR STAFF WRITERWith interview season afoot UC San Diego students are scrambling to 
apply, secure, and successfully slay interviews in hopes of bigger and better 
job or graduate opportunities. Many students only have to consider which 
outfit to wear, how to answer the questions, and how to get there, but that’s 
not true for everyone. Unfortunately, some UCSD students also worry about securing business-appropriate attire in the first place. 
As of today, none of UCSD’s resource centers provide business wear 
and accessories for student checkout. Yet, resource centers exist to support 
underserved populations on campus who face traditional barriers to higher 
education and higher-paying careers. Having interview accessories and attire available for check-out in UCSD’s Resource Centers would increase 
upward mobility for UCSD’s underserved students, especially those trying 
to enter into competitive fields and industries like medicine or finance. 
Therefore, UCSD resource centers should consider incorporating this resource to better fulfill their duty to students.
Offering professional attire and accessories available for check-out in 
the resource centers will increase financially struggling students’ chances of upward mobility due to the attire’s importance in the hiring and selection process. For most interviews, business-casual or business-professional wear is a must; the more competitive the position and higher-paying the field, the more society relies on attire to signal professional competency. In fact, the clothes one wears affect obtaining these positions more than one may think. 
Research studies evaluating the impact of clothing, like one study by 
Dr. Jane E. Workman, “Effects of Appropriate and Inappropriate Attire on Attributions of Personal Dispositions,” demonstrate that for many higher-paying positions, an interviewee’s lack of business wear negatively impacts 
their chances of being selected. Workman’s study found that a lack of 
appropriate business wear signaled to hiring managers that those candidates 
were not serious about the position. This study also suggests that similar 
patterns may affect graduate and professional school admission interviews as well. So, allowing students to check out proper business attire would 
minimize distractions unrelated to their character, skill, or ability.
 F u r t h e r m o r e ,  w e a r i n g  b u s i n e s s - a p p r o p r i a t e  c l o t h e s  a l s o  s h a p e s  
candidates’ views of themselves and their aptitude. One study shows 
that for many people, proper business dress boosts confidence levels and performance. Extrapolating this study to interviews specifically, these 
findings imply that interviewees without conventional attire face even 
further disadvantages compared to other candidates; not having the right 
professional attire and accessories also psychologically disadvantage these candidates’ ability to portray themselves. Overall, the psychological impact of using a fancy $30 UCSD portfolio, wearing a nice belt, or donning a clean suit jacket may increase a candidate’s ability to have their talents recognized due to its effect on the perceptions of others and candidates’ own estimations of themselves.  
There are financial drawbacks to offering this resource to students, but 
the benefits to students outweigh the cost. For example, some may argue that offering business attire and accesses for student checkout would detract
Grindr recently created their “Kindr” initiative with the 
goal of eliminating toxic masculinity and racism on their platform. Grindr is the infamous gay dating app, where users are given unlimited access to an endless sea of smiling faces, bare torsos, and blank avatars. Unlike Tinder or Bumble, which require users to match before either can approach one another, Grindr eliminates the waiting game by allowing users to be proactive in messaging those they are attracted to.
The downside of this is that this open approach to 
dating has allowed for toxic masculinity and racism to run rampant. On Grindr, this comes in the form of racial slurs being thrown around with queer people of color, profiles having phrases like “no fats, no femmes, no HIV+,” or users beginning conversations with a slew of lewd pictures. Thus enters Kindr, the latest initiative by the app to provide an educational approach to ending these issues. This new approach includes several targeted in-app ads, a new set of user policies that attempt to restrict offensive language, and a YouTube series that touches on various stigmas in the gay dating community.
Kindr is a step in the right direction, albeit a small one. 
What the initiative succeeds in is creating a more positive in-app experience for users from marginalized backgrounds. The updated guidelines bar users from posting hateful content in either their bios or in the messages they send to other users, as well as allowing recipients of any hateful dialogue to report the sender, leading to their eventual removal from the app.
However, this approach only serves to put a bandage 
on the larger issue of the racism and toxic masculinity that became more prominent in the gay dating scene after the combination of hypersexuality and homosocialization began decades ago.
Homosocialization is the process of gay people building 
nonsexual relationships with one another, finding mutual interests based on their shared sexuality. Hypersexuality, on the other hand, is casual hookup culture taken to an extreme. Because gay people have traditionally been repressed, both hookup culture and queer relationship building were forced to take place in the same contexts, usually in gay bars, clubs, and community parks. These two competing types of interactions having to share the same setting led to the idea that casual sex is something to be expected when meeting with another gay person. 
These two concepts evolved together as societal views on 
homosexuality became increasingly more tolerant, albeit at a cost: Where gay people from all backgrounds used to find common ground and mutual understanding for one another, the new societal acceptance of the label “gay” allowed for those without other marginalizations to feed their own exclusionary sexual desires. Unfortunate divides became commonplace in gay dating on the basis of race, gender, HIV status, and other marginalizations. This resulted in an app like Grindr being built upon overt “preferences;” the platform allows users to dabble in problematic sexual activities such as race play and trans fetishization because it is built on these historical grounds of socially overt hypersexuality.
However, that does not mean Grindr should not be 
proactive in their attempt to stop these negative dating occurrences. Kindr is a step in the right direction, but the new initiative fails to educate removed users about why racism and toxic masculinity are wrong in the first place. Unlike Tinder, which has a limited number of ways to create an account, Grindr has no safeguards in place, so even if a user is banned, they can simply create a new account without facing any repercussions.
If Grindr wants to truly make an impact in the discussion 
of gay racism and toxic masculinity, then the app must find a way to ensure that banned users either remain removed from the app or successfully receive education on these issues before reentering the platform. This can include accounts only being able to be created with either a phone number or Facebook account (reducing the number of times a user can rejoin), creating a more comprehensive educational platform that allows for users to fully learn why racism and toxic masculinity are wrong, and most importantly, providing information on how to get in touch with counselors and therapists to work through any internal issues that may still remain. 
Combating these negative issues in the gay community 
will set a precedent for fighting racism and toxic masculinity on a broader, societal level. Where one social community finds success, others are likely to take those actions as examples and follow suit. If Grindr takes the necessary steps to address the root of racism and toxic masculinity rather than to put a bandage over it, then, with time, the gay dating scene, as well as society at large, will become all the more Kindr.
“...the platform allows 
users to dabble in 
problematic sexual activities 
such as race play and trans 
fetishization because it is 
built on these historical 
grounds of socially overt 
hypersexuality.”See BUSINESS, page 5 ▶Resource Centers Should Address Hiring 
Inequalities Through Clothing Loans
BY GEENA ROBERTS // CONTRIBUTING WRITEROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
. . .
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
CREDIT CARD  By Anonymous
▶ BUSINESS, from page 4
funds from other programs due to the cost 
of dry cleaning and purchasing the items. 
However, there are several financially sustainable ways to implement this program. 
A few options include soliciting donations 
for the clothing and items, buying quality 
clothes second-hand, charging a small fee to offset the cost of dry-cleaning services, and fundraising to support the program. 
Another argument opponents may pose 
is that few students would benefit from the program and therefore it is not worthwhile. In actuality, recent statistics about UCSD’s students suggest differently. For example, 
this year 40 percent of the incoming class 
come from low-income households. This 
resource would benefit low-income students and their families by alleviating some of the financial burden of business wear. 
By not having to purchase every piece of 
business attire, and pay to maintain these 
items with dry cleaning, students and their families have more money for other things 
like fulfilling basic needs and purchasing 
academic necessities.
Additionally, without such a program, 
students may have little choice but to purchase and don less professional attire 
than a given employer or recruiter expects 
from a serious candidate. For example, 
due to cost, a student may forgo buying 
a suit and face the aforementioned social 
penalty in the eyes of the interviewer for 
doing so. Students may also be forced to 
avoid opportunities that require business-
professional attire altogether.
UCSD’s resource centers have enormous 
potential to continue improving students’ socioeconomic status while they attend 
college and even after graduation. Offering 
UCSD students low-cost or free business 
attire and accessories to check out has 
clear benefits and will become increasingly 
relevant as the campus welcomes more 
underserved students.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 
Tucked next to Muir Woods Coffee Shop, a sea of planter boxes and old 
trash barrels brimming with greenery, is John Muir College’s Community 
Garden, one of UC San Diego’s several community gardens. There are a 
few inviting tables and benches in the middle of a border of planter boxes, which 
bear the chalkboard labels “White Onions, ” “Rosemary Thyme Chives, ” “Peppers 
& Tomatoes, ” and “Spookie Pumpkins. ” . Despite the fact that the space is essentially 
a large square of concrete, there are potatoes, peppers, and onions, happily growing in their places.
Muir College senior Bethany Shimasaki, co-chair of the Muir Community 
Garden Club, wishes more students felt inclined to come spend their time studying, relaxing, or just hanging out in the garden. It’s clear that the garden 
space isn’t being utilized to its full potential. With midterms coming up, the shady, 
quiet, area surrounded by plants would make an ideal change of scenery to break up study sessions in the library. To make that happen, Shimasaki is on a mission to 
find more tables for the space. Along with three other fellow leaders, Shimasaki, a 
marine biology major, has managed to revive a garden that had nearly wilted away due to lack of care. A few years before she came to UCSD, a subcommittee in the 
Environmental Club started the garden and acquired all the planter boxes, but it 
died off after most of the members graduated. As a member of the Environmental Club herself, Shimasaki realized that no one was taking care of the plants in what 
was left of the garden, so she decided to take over. The four core members now 
have other volunteer gardeners joining them in meetings. 
Shimasaki and her fellow leaders plant a 
variety of fruits and vegetables — based on what their members want to grow, what plants are in season, and how much space they have. 
Since their space is made up of concrete, they 
have to find plants that will thrive in boxes or, creatively, trash cans filled with soil.
“We just got a kumquat tree, and we want 
to do more citrus trees, ” Shimaski said. “We’re trying to figure out where to put them. I really 
love blueberries, and I know that they grow 
pretty well in bushes. We take a vote based on what plants are in season. We obviously 
wouldn’t plant peppers and tomatoes and 
eggplants during the wintertime. Our goal is getting more containers and utilizing the space 
that we have. ”
The club plants a variety of sprouts and 
seedlings, which are new plants that haven’t yet begun to grow. Muir Community Garden’s tomatoes and potatoes come from seedlings. According to Shimasaki, 
they get their plants from a variety of sources: nurseries or gardening stores like Armstrong Garden Centers, The Home Depot, or even Trader Joe’s for herbs. 
Other community gardens on campus help as well.
“We also share a lot with other gardens; we get some of our seeds from Roger’s 
garden and some from Ellie’s garden, ” Shimasaki said. “There’s a groundskeeper that has been very helpful for us. His name is Chris [Johnson]; he’s the advisor for 
Ellie’s garden, but he also helps us out a lot. ”
One of those helpful partner gardens, Roger’s Community Garden, serves as 
a creative hub for many student organizations on campus to conduct outdoor experiments and test designs. It began as part of the C.H.E. Cafe to provide food for their kitchens. It was then later revived in order to grow produce for the Triton 
Food Pantry and collect food waste for composting. Now, it’s a constant source of 
collaboration for student orgs. Muir College senior Enid Partika, a environmental chemistry major and researcher at Roger’s Community Garden, is one of the 
students involved with the preservation and maintenance and she conducts her 
own project in the garden.
“The garden provides students with opportunities to engage in student-
centered research and hands-on experiential learning through access to grant funding, networking, and volunteering opportunities, ” Partika said.  “It educates students, faculty, and community members about sustainable agriculture, 
renewable energy, composting, and hydroponic systems. Student orgs collaborate 
with the community garden volunteers and alumni to apply and receive grant funding to run their projects. My project, the anaerobic digestion system, was 
started this way and has given me the opportunity to work with private industry, academia, and students to create a small-scale food waste repurposing and carbon 
neutral system. ”
Roger’s Community Garden spans a sprawling clearing, an area surrounded 
by eucalyptus trees and behind the C.H.E. Cafe. There are many cacti, succulents, sheds, hoses, compost systems, and countless pots of greenery. Planter boxes 
are filled with vegetables, a wooden sign labelled “blackberry patch” stands in 
front of vines which run up lattice and down into a chipped bathtub. Tables and umbrellas are gathered in the quarter, and there’s an orchard of fruit trees — Gold 
Kist Apricot, Frederick Passion Fruit, Santa Rosa Asian Plum, and more. Roger’s 
smorgasbord of plants is more tropically-based, but they also have traditional produce, which is more beginner-friendly for amateur student gardeners.
“We have a variety of tropical plants, such as dragon fruit, pineapple guava, 
strawberry guava, and loquats, as well as herbs like oregano, rosemary, mint, thyme, and basil, ” Partika said. “We also have general crops that are easier to grow, 
that volunteers and students plant: tomatoes, arugula, peppers, beans, onions, and 
squash. ”
A third community garden on campus, Ellie’s Garden at Eleanor Roosevelt 
College, began about nine years ago when groundskeeper Chris Johnson noticed that the bare but weed-free and well-irrigated plots of land between residence halls could use some brightening up. He and a student began the garden project the 
following summer. The garden’s main goal is to promote sustainability and combat 
food insecurity on campus, and the variety of plants varies from season to season.
So what do these thriving 
gardens do with all the fruits of the students’ labor? After harvesting their vegetables, fruits, and herbs, 
the produce goes primarily to the 
student volunteers who helped grow it. Sometimes, they grow more 
than they can eat. Roger’s donates 
their excess food to the Triton Food Pantry, which could provide an 
even more impactful resource for 
students on campus than it already does, should more know about it. 
Muir has a few other outlets for their 
harvests.
“This past quarter, we grew 
carrots and peas, and we had roughly two pounds of carrots, ” 
Shimasaki said ruefully. “If we have too much, usually we offer it to the Cooking 
Club in Muir. I don’t think we’ve ever had so much that we needed to give it to the 
food pantry, but that’s our goal for the future. We also use the food for events. We had a salad-in-a-jar party where we took lettuce, carrots, and tomatoes from our 
garden and made salads for people to come eat. ”
ERC junior Alex Bogisich, a olitical science - international relations major, is 
particularly proud of Ellie’s Garden’s Harvest Day. Once a quarter, the organization cooks a free three-course meal featuring the produce they have grown. The event 
will be held on Sunday, Nov. 18. 
“This quarter, Harvest Day is, for the first time, collaborating and combining 
with Sunday Supper, a tradition carried out by International Houses around the world, including ERC’s own I-House, ” Bogisich said. “The sweet potatoes that are currently growing in the garden will be the star of the dinner. Produce that is not 
used in Harvest Day is for the students of ERC to use, and we encourage them to 
stop by and add some local fresh greenery to their meals. Our remaining food is donated to the Triton Food Pantry. ”
For Shimasaki, Partika, and Bogisich, being part of community gardens have 
given them a chance to bond with their fellow gardeners, as well asto do something they love and feel fulfilled. It’s clear Shimasaki is passionate about the garden and 
the environment it offers for students to relax and feels proud of the work they’ve 
done.
“Me and the three other girls I work with have all said at some point that we 
keep coming to meetings because it’s an hour out of our week of not having to worry about school or stress about homework, ” Shimasaki said. “It’s an hour that’s Three of UCSD’s 
community garden 
clubs share the backstory behind their gardens, their goals for the organization, and the reason why they garden (and why should, too!)
By Charlotte 
Armstrong // 
Senior Sta ff 
WriterComing  Up  
Roses: All  
About  UCSD's 
Community 
Gardens
SeeGARDEN , page 7
“For me, the greatest benefit is 
envisioning a sustainable future and 
seeing my ideas and the ideas of my 
colleagues come to life and truly help the 
environment and individuals. ”
projects. For me, the greatest benefit 
is envisioning a sustainable future and 
seeing my ideas and the ideas of my 
colleagues come to life and truly help the 
environment and individuals. ”
PHOTO VIA STOCKTONFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
UC San Diego has always been well known for its science, 
technology, engineering, and math  majors; the biological 
sciences and engineering majors, in particular, have 
always had high enrollment. In the last few years, increasing 
numbers of students are opting to pursue degrees in cognitive 
science. Cognitive science  is the study of cognition from many 
different angles. It involves some neuroscience, biology, computer science and even some linguistics, anthropology and sociology. 
Cognitive science essentially tries to answer what cognition is, what 
subconsciousness is and what context it can be used in. However, many students and even some professors often downgrade the 
subject to be a second-choice for students who couldn’t get into 
impacted majors, or just found courses like organic chemistry too difficult.
Either way, if students want to study cognitive science at any 
university, UCSD is the right place. In fact, it is the birthplace of cognitive science. “[UCSD’s is] the first Cognitive Science department in the world, ” Katy Schoeneweis, an undergraduate 
advisor for the major, told the UCSD Guardian. “The Cognitive 
Science faculty held the first conference in 1979 and it eventually became a department. ” UCSD also ranks among the top three 
universities and boasts a variety of accomplished professors. 
“Don Norman started — he’s a very, very famous professor — 
the CogSci department here. He was a vice president at Apple, and he founded the design lab at UCSD, ” said John Muir College senior 
Dev Sharma,  a cognitive science major specializing in machine learning and neural networks. “Scott Klemmer [teaches] design. 
One of his graduate students [at Stanford] made Instagram! We 
have very competent professors. ”
A lot of research in the field also stems from UCSD, and 
prestigious conferences are held with many professors coming to share their findings. The Cognitive Science Student Association is especially crucial in connecting students with useful resources. 
Sharma, who is the Logistics Chair of CSSA at UCSD, is mainly in 
charge of planning events, inviting people, securing funding and working with the organization’s president to get everything done.
“We have some multiple yearly events which are pretty 
successful. The biggest event we have is the conference — the National Cognitive Science conference — which invites speakers 
from different parts of America to speak on a theme which we 
decide, ” said Sharma. “Last year was Cognitive Revolution 2.0, which focused on neuroscience and machine learning. We invited 
speakers from IBM and other universities, and around 320 students 
showed up. The Cog sci department is pretty involved in it. ”
During the conference, there are workshops for particular 
specializations and a dedicated lab open house, where all the cognitive science labs in the UCSD system present their work to the students. “The CSSA also hosts GBMs at which we try to inform 
people about the job opportunities and make connections with the 
faculty here, ” Sharma said.
Artificial intelligence, which is a big part of the machine learning 
specialization, is clearly a rapidly growing field. For students who opt for other specializations, the benefits may not be as obvious. 
“Each specialization has a different purpose. Like as a Machine 
Learning major, I still have to do neuroscience, I still have to do psychology, I still have to do perception, vision, things like that, ” Sharma said. “So they make us learn how the brain works, and 
in this specialization, we have to try to emulate that in machine 
learning. A different specialization like neuroscience would take the hard biology part of it, like the actual neuron connections, and combine it with psychology and stuff and try to make a bigger 
picture: how are these connections working together to make 
certain kinds of behaviors. ”
Schoeneweis believes the interdisciplinary nature of the major 
is its biggest asset, and therefore opens up multiple pathways for students after graduation. Although the department doesn’t keep data on employment rates, the opportunities are endless.
“It’s so open-ended. That’s what’s so cool about Cog Sci is it’s 
very broad. Y ou can really apply it to any industry that u want to, ” said Schoeneweis. “ A lot of our students are really interested in 
grad school, we have students interested in speech and language, 
things like that. Our most popular major right now is design and interaction, and we incorporate that with the data science institute. ”
Many students are interested in industry as well and are going 
into user interface design, user testing or even video game design. “It’s the whole scope of things that relate to cognition, ” Schoeneweis said. 
Regardless of these prospects, it’s undeniable that majors such 
as computer science or biology seem to be harder and are many students’ initial choices during their  freshman or sophomore years.
“Definitely some people are concerned about time until 
graduation, and Cog Sci has fewer classes compared to some STEM majors that have a lot of engineering or bio classes. We don’t have too many classes as we are like other social science majors in that 
regard, ” said Schoeneweis.
Often, other students find that switching to cognitive science is 
either an indication of failure or another way to pursue something their GPA didn’t allow. Even some professors see a clear difference 
in students who take computer science classes as an engineering major versus as a cognitive science major.
“Y eah, and I hear that all the time, ” said Schoeneweis. “There are 
students who are trying to get into computer science who declare our major. I think that’s totally fine, we’re happy to take the students 
who, you know, are interested in CS and looking for a different 
way to apply it. I think most of our students who do design and interaction or machine learning get a minor in CS so you can still 
get the technical skills. But a huge benefit of studying CS through 
the legs of cog sci is that it’s very applied to the way people think and the way that technology is going to work in reality, and the 
way humans are going to interact with it. Whereas if you just study computer science, 
you’re going to learn 
a lot of technical 
things, and some applications, but its 
very broad. ”
Schoeneweis believes students 
can take the knowledge learned from multiple fields to apply toward their careers. “In Cog Sci it’s very specific and applied; the 
classes are very studio-based, hands-on, project-based classes. And also there’s a lot of ways to learn CS outside the classroom at this 
specific point of time: a lot of students are picking up programming 
languages and skills for coding online, and then applying them in projects and internships and things like that. ”
Although both fields have their benefits, as Sharma explains, 
there are pros and cons to both, which exemplifies the worth that cognitive science has on its own.
“I think most of the people who take cognitive science because 
computer science is impacted would generally drop out, because we don’t have that many CS classes. If that’s what their purpose is. It’s a very different major from CS. People think its an alternative to 
CS, but it really isn’t, ” said Sharma. 
“What I learned that I wouldn’t have — I learned about how the 
brain works. What my major offers is a background. With just CS, you know the mathematics of it. But you never really know like ... 
like when you’re trying to emulate a neuron. What Cog Sci does is it actually gives you a context of a biological perspective, so you’ll 
create a better one. ”
A high point of the major right now is its availability — for now 
at least, the department has no plans to make cognitive science impacted. 
“We’re going do everything we can to keep it from being 
capped, and the faculty and staff definitely want to include as many students as we can, ” said Schoeneweis. “It’s complicated — there are 
a lot of things to consider: interests of faculty, interests of students. It would be great if we could offer more classes, fit more students, 
get more students off the waitlist. We do try to get more professors, 
[but] the process is so much longer than many people realize. I think we’re doing the best we can; it’s a rapidly growing field, so I 
think we’re taking the steps we want to take. ”
However, Sharma thinks that UCSD could make more of an 
effort to really show new students what the major is about so that their decision to pursue it is more informed and with the right 
intentions.
“I don’t think [it should get impacted]. Until the department has 
enough seats, has enough funding. We like to see our community grow, we don’t really have a problem like that, but like obviously at some point if the major gets oversaturated there will have to be a 
cut off, ” he said. “During the orientation they don’t really tell you 
about what the departments you’re interested in do. So when I came in as a freshman, I didn’t really have an idea of what cognitive 
science was. Advisors help, but taking a Cog Sci class or seminar 
helps the best. [Y ou’ll] have more options, more of an idea of what you’re going to step into. That solves the problem of over-filling, 
[rather than] if they’re taking something because they’re just forced 
into it. ”By Susanti Sarkar // Features Editor
“I think most of the people who 
take cognitive science because 
computer science is impacted 
would generally drop out, because 
we don’t have that many CS 
classes. If that’s what their purpose 
is. It’s a very different major from 
CS. People think its an alternative 
to CS, but it really isn’t, ” said 
Sharma. dedicated to doing stuff with our hands. We always say it’s very 
therapeutic when we’re digging in the dirt. It de-stresses us. I’m a 
senior now, so I have a lot of stuff going on, but it’s always this time 
where I’m like ‘Oh yes, I get to hang out with plants!’ And do stuff with my hands and get to see the fruits of our labor. ”
Bogisich agreed. The garden, he said, provides an opportunity 
for students of a large variety of majors, and with a large variety of gardening skills, to interact with one another. 
“The garden injects an opportunity to connect with nature ... 
Whether you’re walking through it on the way to your building or 
spending two hours helping us weed and prune on a Saturday, it 
is always great for our mental health to see some green, ” Bogisich 
said. “So much of our lives as students consists of reading, sitting 
through lecture, or working on a computer, so our gardening sessions are a great way to be outside in the fresh air, get your hands 
a little dirty, and connect with nature. ”
Partika echoed their sentiments. 
“I’ve met great and inspiring individuals at the garden, and 
I get to work alongside some of my best friends! It’s a relaxing and exciting setting to be in, ” Partika said. “The garden provides many benefits to all majors, such as research experience, hands-
on learning and building, leadership and project management 
experience, volunteer hours, and engagement with sustainable projects. For me, the greatest benefit is envisioning a sustainable 
future and seeing my ideas and the ideas of my colleagues come to 
life and truly help the environment and individuals. ”
Since Shimasaki will graduate soon, her ultimate goal for Muir’s 
Community Garden is simply to see it continue. She earnestly encourages students to join the Community Garden Club to keep the garden thriving. She rediscovered its potential a few years ago, and doesn’t want to see it abandoned again. Shimasaki encourages 
students interested in joining to email muirshalfmoonmeadow@
gmail.com. 
“There are only four of us taking care of the garden, ” Shimasaki 
said.  “Because it’s a pretty small garden, we can manage it pretty well, but now that I’m a senior, I’ d like to see more people interested and willing to step into leadership roles. We don’t want what 
happened last time to happen again. It’s been really fun, and I just 
hope we can find other people who want to do it. I’ d hate to leave 
my baby after all this hard work and come back later and find it 
abandoned. ”
Bogisich also encourages any interested students to come to a 
meeting or gardening session at Ellie’s. Ellie’s Garden’s meetings for 
the fall quarter are Fridays at 6 p.m. in Europe Hall, first floor, while 
gardening sessions are Saturdays at noon and Mondays at 2 p.m.
Partika has big plans for the Roger’s Community Garden  in 
the future.
“We hope to incorporate a food forest into the garden, which 
will have a large variety of fruit trees fed using the fertilizer created 
from food waste inserted into the anaerobic digestion system at the 
garden, ” Partika said. “I would love to see the garden collecting and 
harnessing the energy from all of the food waste on campus from HDH and Price Center, and using the biogas and organic fertilizer 
produced to help power and enrich the university landscape. I also 
see the garden expanding this food waste to food and fuel model to other gardens and restaurants in the San Diego community. ”
Meanwhile, the students want to expand the amount of ERC 
ground they cover in Ellie’s Garden. Their original plot, the Victory Garden, expanded to three, and now they hope to create a fourth plot between the North America and Latin America Residence 
Halls. They also would like to expand the garden’s impact to other 
parts of campus.
“We do not have much interaction with the campus’ central 
administration, ” Bogisich said.  “I can say that Ellie’s Garden feels wholeheartedly supported by the ERC Student Activities administration.  [Housing Dining Hospitality] has increased 
support recently, using celery from Ellie’s Garden in its gyudon 
bowls last spring quarter, marking the first time that our produce 
has been used in Cafe Ventanas. We look forward to working with 
them in the coming year as we try to acquire the fourth garden 
plot. ”
Although Shimusaki has always loved gardening, but she 
emphasized that the community garden is open to students of all gardening levels.
“We have a wide range of gardening experience, ” Shimasaki 
said.  “Some people are like ‘I grew up on a farm, ’ and some are like ‘I’ve never touched a plant in my life. I killed my succulent. I 
gardened a little when I was a kid, but I rediscovered it when I got to college. It’s really fun and rewarding. Y ou plant this tiny seed or 
put a seedling in the ground, and in two weeks, it’s way bigger, and 
you’re harvesting a vegetable from it. It’s cool. ”▶ GARDEN , from page 6
Charlotte  armstrong   c1armstr@ucsd.edu
Susanti  sarkar   s5sarkar@ucsd.edu
Cognitive Science at UCSD: An 
enviable choice or just a backup?8                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. Look for 
our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more details about the 
world-class care happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com.On Wednesday, Oct. 18, AMC Mission 
Valley 20 hosted a prescreening 
of Jonah Hill’s directorial debut, 
“Mid90s, ” starring Sunny Suljic, Olan Prenatt, 
Ryder McLaughlin, Na-Kel Smith, and Gio 
Galicia. The movie follows the life of 13-year-old 
Stevie (Suljic), who escapes his troubles at home through skateboarding. Lonely and lacking a healthy relationship with his older brother, he 
finds a group of older kids at a skate shop. The 
group takes him under its wing, and Stevie quickly becomes eager to prove himself. Like Stevie, each of his new friends has troubles waiting for them at home, but skating provides an outlet for them 
to process and express their emotions. 
Stevie, being the youngest of the group and 
easily influenced by the people he admires, only 
wants to fit in. Without strong family ties that 
might work to ground him, Stevie sets off on 
any attempt to integrate himself into the group. Ray (Na-kel Smith), the leader of the group, is the most level-headed one, as well as the most motivated to better himself. Contrastingly, 
Ray’s best friend, F---s--- (Olan Prenatt), just 
wants to skate and party forever, wasting his potential despite having the most opportunities out of the group. The third member of the group, 
Fourth Grade (Ryder McLaughlin), is particularly 
underprivileged but continues to pursue his film-making dreams with or without the support of others. The “outsider” in the group, Ruben (Gio Galicia), is good-hearted but deals with feelings 
of resentment because he is the least integrated 
despite his many efforts to prove himself.  
Stevie’s friends show him a new world 
of teenage debauchery, through partying, 
drinking, smoking, and indulging in other illicit 
activities. His friends show him that despite their circumstances, they can still find ways to be happy and have fun, even if they make misguided decisions in the process. Stevie lacks 
a relationship with Ian (Lucas Hedges), his older 
brother who beats him up, and this emotional neglect causes him to seek acceptance from outside sources. The group includes Stevie into their skater culture, showing him how everyone 
is able to connect through a love of skating. 
Together, they learn about themselves and how to navigate life’s obstacles. They discover that in 
the end, there is always something good to focus 
on, even when life seems hopeless, and for them, that’s skating. 
“Mid90s” explores how troubled youth find 
support in each other. The film shines a light on how adolescence is a time of self-discovery, and how truly important friendships are during this time. It’s not the adults that the kids feel they can talk to, but rather others their own 
age experiencing similar troubles. These boys 
forgo any lovey-dovey communal bonding in favor of skating, which seems to be the teenage boys’ version of group therapy. Though their 
pursuit of adventures often lands them into 
tough situations, their surprising openness and support provides a collective outlet to parse their individual challenges. 
The emotional and personal developments 
of each character are effectively illustrated by the groups’ social dynamics. Each scene defines new dimensions for the characters. The film does not shy away from showing some of the more 
realistic, or even mundane, conflicts between 
friends. Furthermore, it doesn’t overdramatize any one conflict, but rather establishes empathy with the viewers through these smaller, more relatable moments. Each scene brings the actors 
closer to breaking the fourth wall, making the 
audience feel like they were part of their group. 
The film was brought to an end rather 
abruptly, but not incompletely. Any loose ends 
were resolved thoroughly, but there was definite 
potential left over for a sequel. After the well-crafted cinematic experience that “Mid90s” delivered, Jonah Hill can most likely look forward to a successful directorial career. 
 
— Lorena  Espinoza
Staff Writer
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
FILM   REVIEWPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Jonah Hill
Starring   Sunny Suljic, Gio Galicia, Na-kel Smith, Olan Prenatt, Ryder McLaughlin, Lucas Hedges
Release Date  October 19, 2018
Rated  RCA-
Jonah Hill’ s directorial debut catapults the audience back to the ‘90s 
through the eyes of a troubled teenage boy.A&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
It’s a simple concept that has been proven to 
work: Take two guys and their cameraman around the world to try similar foods 
at three drastically different price points (for example, $1 coffee versus $914 coffee) to find out 
which food is most “worth it” at its given price. 
With five seasons and millions of views, it is a dream job: getting paid to travel, and eating good food. Steven Lim, creator and half of the “Worth It” duo, knows that. However, as he explained to a room full of UC San Diego students, this show is part of a much bigger dream of his. He described this dream in ’ “ A Conversation with Steven Lim, ” hosted by A.S. Concert & Events on Oct. 14 in Price Center Ballroom West. Armed with just a PowerPoint and a 
microphone, Lim told everyone a personal and what he referred to as an “embarrassing” story about his life. Growing up, he was one of only two Asian students in his middle school. This 
anecdote was shared with irony, as, much to 
Lim’s amazement, and majority of the crowd of students before him was Asian. In school, peers always called him “that Asian kid” or confused him with his other Asian classmate. While he initially didn’t think it was wrong, he grew concerned about Asian-American representation in the media during his high school and college years. Non-Asians’ perspectives of him and other Asians were likely influenced by this lack of representation.
At the same time, however, Lim saw that 
there was a rising popularity of Asian-Americans in media, namely on Y ouTube. He wanted to 
be a part of this, and while he graduated with 
a chemical engineering degree, making videos quickly became his passion. He left his job at Tide (even though he’s proud of his involvement in creating Tide Pods) and started his own 
Y ouTube channel. After dozens of failed videos, 
he succeeded with his 2014 video “ Asian Parents 
React To I Love Y ou, ” which Lim played for the audience. It was a video of young Asian-
Americans telling their parents “I love you, ” — some for the first time. The video immediately 
resonated with viewers across the internet and 
shortly after Lim received and later accepted an offer to work with BuzzFeed.
Lim eventually approached BuzzFeed with 
his idea of a show centered around food. The 
company liked it but wanted to cast two white 
men to star in it, which Lim denied. “The world doesn’t need more food shows with white 
guys, ” Lim said, and the UCSD audience cheered and clapped in agreement. “We need more 
ethnicities, more genders, more representation. ” 
As a compromise, BuzzFeed still cast Andrew Ilnyckyj, a white man, for the show, but allowed Lim to run and star in it. While this may seem 
like a small step toward greater representation, 
the creation of BuzzFeed’s “Worth It” has gone 
on to become part of a global internet culture 
and with it Steven Lim, a Chinese-Malaysian 
American. “People finally knew my name, ” Lim 
said.
Following his presentation was a Q&A that 
prompted dozens of raised hands and even more 
questions. For half an hour, Lim answered each question patiently and with good humor. Some 
questions related to the show and included“What 
crazy, bizarre foods have you always wanted to 
try?” and“Will ‘Worth It’ ever leave Buzzfeed?” 
Lim responded, “Brain and balut, ” and “No, hopefully, ” respectively. . Other questions were 
unrelated, such as — “How tall are you?” and “If you had to, what K-Pop group would you 
join?” Lim’s answers were 6 feet and “Big Bang, ” respectively. However, the most thoughtful questions returned  to Lim’s main focus of the 
night. When someone asked whether he thought 
Asian representation would ever become a norm, Lim said, “I think it’ll take a while, maybe another cycle, which could be a decade or more. ” By then he hoped Asians would be cast because 
they were cool and not just because they were 
Asian.
In the meantime, Lim remains part of a small 
but growing group of famous Asian-American 
Y ouTubers. When asked about how he’s become accustomed to his newfound prominence, Lim 
revealed that, as amazed and thankful as he 
feels, he still doesn’t know how to properly react to his fame and fans. For example, Lim repeatedly expressed disbelief and awe at his 
event on campus selling out in three minutes. 
He was surprised and happy that three audience 
members wore headbands with differing price tags, mimicking his show’s concept. Whenever 
someone voiced their admiration for him, he sheepishly tried to shrug off the compliment, 
saying, “I’m just a guy who eats food. ”
In response to this, one female audience 
member stood up and told Lim that he was 
more than his self-proclaimed image. Instead, he 
represents many of his Asian-American viewers, 
who share his identity and relate to his story and 
upbringing. It is his heritage that influences his 
distinct tastes and brings his unique perspectives 
onto the show. By ultimately pursuing his 
passions, he not only changed his own life but 
also impacted others. So while Lim may worry 
about how he behaves around fans, his presence in the room that night made it clear that he doesn’t need to change his ways. He was funny, 
relatable and down-to-earth. Just like his videos, 
he left everyone smiling.
—  Natalie Tran
Senior Staff WriterSteven Lim from BuzzFeed’s “Worth It” Y ouTube series talks with 
UCSD students about his show, his life, and Asian-American representation in media.
EVENT   REVIEW
Location  Price Center Ballroom West
Event Date   October 14, 2018A Conversation with Steven LimPHOTO COURTESY OF NATALIE TRAN
CB+10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
After the film, the UCSD Guardian met with 
some of the stars of “Mid90s. ” Upon meeting 
the cast, it was evident that the actors aren’t very 
different from their characters off the screen. 
Though Ne-Kal Smith couldn’t be there, the 
four other members of the group were present. 
The first, Sunny Suljic, was accurately named, as he was absolutely a ray of sunshine, possessing 
a youthful charm and genuine enthusiasm for 
everything happening around him. Even off-
screen, he was able to seamlessly mesh with the 
older cast members. Gio Galicia had a naturally flirty personality; he seemed authentically 
friendly and happy with where he is in life. Olan 
Prenatt was considerably more motivated than his character, but he carried himself with the 
same swagger and joviality. The fourth member, Ryder McLaughlin, mostly kept to himself, 
coming off as a little timid, and was genuinely 
humble about his talents. After the screening, the 
Guardian asked the cast a few questions about their experience working on “Mid90s. ” 
Guardian:  The journey of self-discovery is 
a pretty universal experience. Were you able to 
relate to your character’s experiences or specific traits?
Sunny Suljic:  I  d i d n ’ t  r e a l l y  r e l a t e  t o  m y  
character except that he was motivated and had 
the drive to just keep skating, and get back up 
when he falls. 
Ryder McLaughlin:  I related to every 
character; I feel like at every point in my life I’ve 
been in one of their shoes. 
G: Is there a specific experience or trait?
RM:  P r o b a b l y  j u s t  t r y i n g  t o  g e t  i n ,  l i k e  
hanging out with older people, even though they weren’t drinking and all that other stuff, but they were a lot older than me... 
Olan Prenatt:  I feel like that was one of 
the challenges of me acting and portraying my 
character. Trying really hard because that’s my 
only approach at acting since it’s my first acting 
experience — trying really hard to be somebody 
who is supposed to come off as somebody who doesn’t try hard at anything, and doesn’t have any 
drive or passion or anything about moving toward 
their goals. Y eah, so it’s like a contradiction.
Gio Galicia:  Not with my character at least; 
I don’t relate to him. He’s like a little a------, but 
I feel like Sunny’s character, trying to find my 
friend group, and trying to, not ‘fit in, ’ but see 
who I relate to the most ... and it happened with skating. I don’t know; it’s good.
G: In what ways do you feel you are different 
from your character?
GG:  Every way really. Like I said, he’s rude 
and he’s an a------. 
OP:  I think I kind of answered that question 
in the first answer. I’m sorry. I say that I’m a very 
motivated and passionate person. 
(RM to SS: Which way do you dot connect?)
SS: In a lot of ways. Starting off, I’m kinda shy. 
I’m also supposed to be a good listener — that’s not true... and drinking and all that. So, I don’t really relate to my character at all, really, except 
the skating part. 
G: Working with someone as influential as 
Jonah Hill has certainly put you in the spotlight. 
How do you think being in the public eye at such a young age is affecting your self-image?
SS: It’s so cool. It’s so rewarding: you make 
a film, and I don’t speak for everybody, but I 
haven’t experienced any interactions with people 
screaming when I’m on the street. I mean, taking photos or even like doing signatures is cool. I mean, so there’s more to come. People tell me I’m gonna love it at first and then it’s gonna get a bit 
tiring, but I think this is cool and I definitely want 
to keep acting. 
RM:  Nothing has changed for me, at least. 
Prenatt: I definitely want to continue acting 
after learning this new art and falling in love 
with it.
GG:  It’s cool, I mean like, (laughs) this 
happened to me a couple times, where I was just 
with some friends at a movie theatre and like three people noticed me. It was just, I dont know, 
it’s so cool cause like I never thought that would 
happen and then it just happened. It was just 
crazy to know people like, know who I am.
SS: I love that man [Jonah Hill] — it’s fantastic, 
thank you. Oh, I just went over about how cool it 
is, but yeah. 
G: Y our characters find relief from their 
teenage troubles through skating. How do you 
find relief in your own lives?
SS: My dog. Everytime I see my dog or my 
cat — I have a Sphynx cat and a French bulldog. 
When I was on tour for like two weeks, I was just a little bit tired, and then I see my dog and my 
cat and — I don’t know [smiles to himself]. Y eah, probably my dog and my cat and then my sister, 
I guess. But yeah, skating is a therapy almost, you 
literally forget about everything. I didn’t have 
such a great birthday one time and I just went skating and I completely forgot about everything. 
GG:  Recently, I just started seeing my sister 
again and she just had a baby ... Whenever I’m 
down, I hang out with my sister and we go eat, and it’s nice to see her baby too. 
OP:  Jogging, that’s fun. That helps. It centers my mind, like jogging on a treadmill, hiking, but 
skateboarding is the ultimate “everything” for me.
SS: That’s a fire question though. I feel like I 
don’t even have the best response because I just 
feel like we always get the most generic questions, 
but that’s a good question. I got caught off guard, 
so props. 
RM:  I don’t do anything. I sit in my room and 
I watch Y ouTube videos.
SS: Ryder draws!
GG:  Y eah, Ryder can make music and draw! 
SS: Ryder makes music! Literally every single 
second I’m in Ryder’s room, he’s making music.
GG:  He doesn’t like talking about it, but he’s 
a really good artist; he makes really good music.
SS: He’ s too humble.
After the interview, I got to walk alongside the 
cast on our way out of the theater and talk to them 
off-the-record like normal people. It was such 
a cool opportunity to meet and interview these young actors with incredibly bright futures ahead 
of them. They were all amazing in “Mid90s. ” I was left so impressed with their effortless portrayals 
of their characters despite their not completely 
relating to them. Though they all seem to lead relatively normal lives, they were similar to their 
characters in the way they talked and interacted with one another. It’s clear to me that being a part 
of this film brought these up-and-coming actors 
together and gave them a friendship that will last for a long time.
— Lorena  Espinoza
Staff WriterA  sit-down 
with  the mid90s  cast
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Halloween is just around the corner, along 
with tricks and treats galor. Here are some horror films on Net flix to help you and your 
friends celebrate spooky season.retrospective  spotlight: 
halloween  horror
LAST  SHIFT
Spooky  rating: 7.5 / 10
What starts as a tedious position for rookie 
cop, Jessica Loren (Juliana Harkavy), devolves into 
a debilitating night of psychological trauma and bloodshed in the 2014 horror flick, “Last Shift. ” 
Charged with covering the graveyard shift at a 
soon-to-be-closed police precinct, Jessica awaits the chronically late HAZMAT team to dispose of some biohazard evidence samples. As her thoughts 
bob between the terrible ennui of her job and 
memories of her deceased father, she finds that her mind might not be the only thing wandering in this desolate station. Visions of bloody-faced ghosts 
and stories of strange occult activities convince the 
young police officer that her shift will not go as smoothly as she had hoped. 
The transition from depictions of a mundane 
routine to supernatural frenzy is happens slowly. 
The police station is plenty spooky; the halls are 
isolated except for few prerequisite flickering light bulbs but nothing suggests that this late-night shift would derail into such a twisted ending. A mentally ill prisoner urinating in the halls and some frantic phone calls set the film on edge early on, unnerving and promising, but nothing traumatizing. When chairs arrange themselves and apparitions of dead 
prisoners taunt the officer, the movie starts to leave 
its mark. 
This whole movie is a gradual accumulation 
of horror, a slight deviation from the growingly-
popular slow burn of recent flicks. Rather than 
maintaining a constant level of tension, “Last Shift” stacks on layers of fear as the layers of the plot unfurl. The special effects become more 
grotesque, the score becomes more frantic, and 
the direction becomes more erratic. Each of these subtle components culminate in a psychologically staggering movie that promises to shift the way slow burn movies realize their horrific aims. 
—   Chris  robertson
Staff Writer“The Babadook” is a slow-burn type of 
horror, focusing its narrative on a worn-down single mother, Amelia V alek (Essie Davis), who attempts to raise her temperamental child while 
still gripped with the trauma of her husband’s 
death seven years prior. She gradually devolves into hysteria, unable to move past her troubles and misfortunes of desolation and sorrow. Y et 
circumstances only turn darker when her son 
finds a mysterious children’s book and asks her to read it one night. Titled “Mister Babadook, ” the storybook features a shadowy, pale-faced 
figure with spiky fingers, a gaped mouth, and 
a top hat. Now if this creature’s appearance isn’t disturbing enough, its actions definitely are. Known as the Babadook, it physically and psychologically torments its victims into madness 
after they become aware of his existence. The 
film not only depends on a titular monster for terrifying aspects, but also uses a theme of ambiguity to unnerve viewers. It leaves the audience pondering: W as the Babadook actually real or was he a hallucinatory symbol of Amelia’s psychological plight?  
On a surface level, this movie depicts a battle 
with a supernatural force, but on a deeper level, it is really a battle within one’s psyche in order to overcome life’s overwhelming sadness. Stalking Amelia to the brink of mental deterioration, 
the Babadook manifests and mimics how 
depression can consume a person’s well-being. The film carries frightening implications on how misunderstood resentment and lingering grief 
can lead to unhealthy cognitive decay. Though 
this topic is heavy in comparison to other horror films’ , “The Babadook” is worth a watch this Halloween season, as it showcases genuinely potent emotions of vulnerability and fear.
 
—   ashley  chen
Senior Staff Writer
The  Babadook
Spooky  rating: 8 / 10PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
My Life 
Playlist
by Samirah Martinez // 
Staff Writer
This year, Stanford Law School’s 
application has an optional question that 
allows applicants to pick which songs 
admissions officers should play as they look 
over their application. 
Although I am not applying to law school, 
picking a song to represent me and my 
personality seemed both fun and daunting, 
so I challenged myself to sort through my favorite songs and see which ones represent me the best. I decided to pick a few of my favorite memories and choose one song to go 
with each.
1. “Idle Town” by Conan Gray
Conan Gray, an artsy Y ouTuber and 
up-and-coming musician, has a few songs released on Spotify. In his song “Idle Town, ” 
he describes his memories with friends and the town he grew up in. Since I grew up in a small town where nothing ever happens, I relate to Gray’s words and strong imagery 
of roaming around a quiet and sleepy town 
with best friends. The lyrics really captured what my life was like in high school and the 
innocence that came with it. Although high school is ancient history, I am still thankful 
for the valuable memories I would not have been able to have had I lived anywhere else.
2. “My Love, My Life” from the “Mamma 
Mia” Soundtrack
I am a big fan of movie musicals, and 
this includes both “Mamma Mia” movies. I watched the second one over the summer 
with my mom and this song made us both cry. Growing up with a single mother and having such a close bond, it’s sometimes difficult to see how quickly life passes and how our 
relationship has changed throughout the 
years. However, she is still one of my favorite people in my life, and I think this song really captures my feelings toward her. Even though 
the mother and daughter of the movie are 
physically separated, they will always love each other in a way only fellow single mother-daughter duos can truly understand.
3. “Castle on the Hill” by Ed Sheeran
First of all, I’ve loved Ed Sheeran since 
I was in middle school, so he would have made this list one way or another. Although 
this song is one of his most overplayed, it really captures strong feelings of nostalgia as 
Sheeran describes going back to his hometown as an adult. There’s this line where he says that 
he’s driving 90 mph to get home, which I 
relate to, because as soon as I hit the freeway headed home, I instantly feel a sense of relief and automatically drive faster. Sheeran really 
nails the feelings of missing the old times, but 
still acknowledges that he and his childhood friends are older and wiser now.
4. “ Audition” by Emma Stone
Another song from another musical. 
Although I love all the songs of “La La Land, ” this is the one song that stuck with me. As someone who grew up creating art and writing stories, I think I will always consider 
myself an artist. As an artist, it can be difficult 
to be accepted for our different points of view, especially in a world dominated by science, technology, engineering, and math. I think this song really captures the importance of 
artists and when I listen to it, I automatically 
think of my choice to switch out of a STEM major. I remember family and friends 
questioning my decision, which was really difficult for someone who loves following 
the rules like me. I’m not a rebellious person as is described in the song, so I think of this 
as being the most rebellious thing I’ve done. 
Despite it being so, I will never regret it.
5. “Tropics” by Mantaraybryn
Although this song could probably be 
categorized as pop music (which is a genre I am not normally into), I like this song because of the line “I was made for tropics. ” I always feel happiest when I am standing at the beach or near water. Although San Diego is not my 
favorite city in the world, I listen to this song 
and remember why I chose this school and my strong love for the ocean.
Creating this short playlist of my life 
challenged me to channel my feelings about music into words. By doing so, I was able to really nail down why I liked these songs in the first place. I challenge people to try this, including asking their friends and seeing 
what monumental moments they feel deserve 
their own song. After all, music is a great way to express yourself, and what better way to 
express yourself than to do it through music?
Cook with a Commuter Volume 2:
Cheesy Kimchi Fried Rice
As Fall Quarter progresses, I increasingly 
find myself missing home-cooked meals. 
However, as a commuter who relies on 
free bus transportation, I am reluctant to 
frequently splurge on an Uber or Lyft ride to the so-called “Convoy. ” Located in Kearny Mesa, Convoy is an eclectic hub of Asian 
cuisine restaurants popular among UC San 
Diego students. I sometimes split an Uber ride with a friend if I’m in the mood for home fare. Now, I’m attempting to recreate that delectable nostalgia in my own kitchen. By actually trying to cook more Korean food 
— a novel step for me — I realize that 
I am embracing my heritage even more. I also happen to be taking an intermediate Korean class this quarter to fulfill my general 
language requirement, and its recent chapter 
on cooking certainly inspired me — hence the kimchi fried rice. I somewhat abashedly admit that, for the first time ever, I want to stock 
up on soy sauce, sesame oil, Korean red chili 
paste, and other key Asian ingredients. 
Kimchi fried rice is a staple Korean street 
food, or “bunsik. ” It is one of my favorite comfort foods. Kimchi fried rice, with all its warm and spicy goodness, fills you with love. I have countless memories of sharing a cozy meal with my family, either at a classic Korean 
diner or at home, inhaling an overflowing 
platter of steaming kimchi fried rice topped with the customary sunny-side up egg. The versatility of this dish ensures that each meal 
offers a new experience. Kimchi fried rice can 
be prepared in a hot stone pot, barbecued on a grill with bits of juicy pork belly and marinated beef still clinging onto it, or simply served in a bowl. It can be made Chinese-style by adding soy sauce, sesame oil, and peas, or 
whatever else your imagination can cook up. 
It pairs marvelously with crispy pork cutlets, Korean spicy rice cakes, piping hot miso soup, coleslaw or even “danmuji, ” which is Korean 
pickled daikon radish. Most of all, kimchi 
fried rice is an absolutely satiating meal that is easy and quick to prepare.
I will be sharing with you my mother’s 
recipe, which incorporates a slight twist with its addition of melted mozzarella. Whether you are a fellow Korean also craving the taste of home or a fellow commuter student open to trying other cuisines, I hope that you will enjoy testing out this spicy, mouth-watering dish. 
Cheesy Kimchi Fried Rice
INGREDIENTS:
• kimchi, which you can buy at the Zion 
Market near Convoy.
• Korean red chili paste or “gochujang, ” 
which can also be purchased at Zion Market. Use ½ to 1 teaspoon per serving 
depending on your spice tolerance.
• Rice that is slightly dry. Fried rice is 
generally made with refrigerated leftover rice. Use 1 bowl per serving.
• tuna, Spam, ham, bacon or beef 
• dried seaweed flakes (to pair with tuna)
• onion
• carrot
• green onion
• 1 egg
• mozzarella cheese
• 1 to 2 teaspoons of sugar
INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Wash and finely dice the vegetables and 
meat of choice. 
2. Heat up a frying pan to medium heat and 
drizzle olive oil. Saute the kimchi for a few minutes. It is important to cook the kimchi longer than the other vegetables to fully bring out its flavor.
3. Add the meat and cook thoroughly. If 
you are using canned tuna, this should only take a couple minutes.
4. Add and saute the vegetables. 
5. Once the ingredients have cooked, stir 
the rice in. 
6. Add the Korean red chili paste, sugar 
and dried seaweed if you are using it. Mix again.
7. Lower the heat of the frying pan and 
spread out the rice mixture into a thin, even layer. 
8. Sprinkle in as much mozzarella as you 
would like before folding your rice in half 
to create an omelet shape. 
9. Let sit for a few minutes. This allows 
both the cheese to melt and the rice to 
slightly scorch at the bottom, creating 
a deliciously smoky and crunchy flavor.
10. On a separate pan, fry an egg to your 
liking. 
11. Transfer the egg onto your fried rice. 
12. Enjoy!
by Hakyung Yun // Contributing Writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 2 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  WEEKEND
The Ephemeral Joy of a Concert Experience
by Jade Hookham // Staff Writer
How many people have ever heard of a 
post-concert comedown? A phenomenon often 
categorized by a sudden inability to think about 
anything but those two hours of euphoria, post-
concert comedowns can get to even the best of us. After experiencing an unwavering flurry of excitement, it’ s no wonder that we feel so devoid of 
purpose at the end of it all. Concerts are a uniquely 
human invention, one which can be the source of a joy unlike any other. The voices of thousands becoming one and uniting toward a common goal can be invigorating.
People spend good chunks of their lives just 
hearing voices and instruments in isolation. So when we have the chance to hear that music from the source, it’ s an opportunity to have the 
emotions we associate with certain songs manifest 
before our eyes. As peculiar and human as the impulse may be, it’s also pretty beautiful, too.
I’ve been to a handful of concerts in my own 
life, all of which have left positive impressions on 
me. Y et, every event was different; the standout 
ones gave me experiences that I’ll probably remember for years on end.
My first concert didn’t happen until senior 
year of high school, when I saw Taylor Swift at the Staples Center during her “1989” tour. A friend and I wanted to see the show together, but somehow both our moms ended up tagging along as well. Since I was only a freshly licensed driver who was yet to be scarred by the freeways of Los 
Angeles, maybe that decision was for the best.
Our seats were atop the steepest tier of the 
stadium, so high up that each step seemed to be 
a foot tall. W e had the glorious side view, which 
made Swift look like a shiny speck of an amoeba.
Much to my chagrin, my phone died during 
the opening act, so I have basically no videos of the 
experience. Some of my main memories involve Swift bringing Ellen DeGeneres on stage, as well 
as my mom’ s lack of enthusiasm in response to me 
singing every song. But let me just say: The rock version of “I Knew Y ou W ere Trouble” goes hard, and watching Swift play “Fifteen” on piano was 
the highlight of my life at that point. Though I 
wasn’t 15 anymore, I knew I was making the little girl inside of me happier than I could probably comprehend.
I didn’t attend another concert until spring 
break of the following year, which ended up being the Anaheim stop of BTS’ s “Wings” tour. It was my first time going to a K-Pop concert; despite the fact that I was going alone, every nerve in my body 
was dancing to the beat of “Blood, Sweat & T ears. ” 
I felt excited, especially since I managed to work out a trade to get a ticket on the date I wanted. Though the traffic to Anaheim seemed like 
otherworldly torture, I made it to the venue with over half an hour to spare. However, the long 
lines took their toll, and I rushed to my seat five 
measly minutes before the show began. Plopping unceremoniously into the chair, I only had a hot second to take a breather before the person next 
to me tapped on my shoulder.
As it turned out, she was the girl with whom 
I had made the ticket trade in order to attend 
Saturday’ s show instead of Sunday’ s. I suppose she felt grateful that she could see both days thanks to 
me, because she brought an extra BTS light stick 
for me to use during the show! Not only that, but she also gave me an opportunity to be a part of the “rainbow ocean” project, which was organized 
by fans.
Long story short, the idea of the project is as 
follows: Fans in different sections of the stadium 
put differently colored plastic bags over their light sticks, with the end goal being a rainbow of 
lights throughout the venue. My section was blue, 
another one was purple, and so on. 
Since I had arrived so close to the show’ s 
start time, I was unable to receive the plastic bag 
necessary to participate. But that friendly girl 
nearby gave hers up for me, and I’ve kept both the bag and the memory to this day. As horrendously cheesy as it sounds, the ambience of the concert made all of us feel effortlessly connected. (Oh, and the music itself was great too.)
The most recent show I attended was an 
orchestral concert of musical soundtracks from the Studio Ghibli movies, conducted by Joe Hisaishi himself. Although my brother and I 
arrived 20 minutes late to the show after the GPS 
took us on an extreme detour, we still had an amazing time there. 
The best moment was easily when “One 
Summer’ s Day, ” the opening song to “Spirited 
Away, ” was played on piano. Because I have an 
extreme weak spot for both the song and piano arrangements in general, I was, simply put, dying. The “Howl’ s Moving Castle” medley also hit me in 
my feelings, and I felt myself sitting up pin-straight 
so as to not miss a single thing. My brother and I commemorated that trip with a midnight Denny’ s visit, which is really how any night should conclude.
In the end, a concert can mean a variety 
of things to any number of people, but one thing is always true: Songs are humanity’ s way of decorating the limited time we have, so a 
gathering in the name of music is always worth 
the effort.PHOTO COURTESY OF JADE HOOKAMCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
THE MARIASTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 22 - OCT 28
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
- GREAT HALL 
One of I-House's most popular events, Language 
Conversation Tables (LCTs) creates an environment where people can learn another language through the art of conversing with a fluent speaker. LCTs has successfully helped people know more about both the language and the accompanied culture, as well as generating long-lasting friendships! LCTs is a weekly event with sessions every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday with different languages offered. Tuesday 6-7PM at the Great Hall: ASL, Armenian, Czech, English, French, Irish, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Polish, Spanish, Vietnamese. Please RSVP at https://tinyurl.com/Fall18LCT Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
PATHWAYS TO PHDS - 
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM, STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER
Want to earn a PhD at UCSD? At this panel 
workshop, grad student speakers in Psychology, Neuroscience, and Clinical fields will reveal how 
to successfully apply to graduate programs at 
UCSD, what those programs are like, and much 
more! This program is relevant to ANY student who is interested in a PhD or master's program. Refreshments will be served. Contact: scp008@ucsd.edu10am
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
A practice to help increase focus and 
concentration, reduce stress and gain a sense of 
well-being. Seated, standing, lying down, and 
moving techniques may be covered. Suitable for 
all levels of experience.  All classes with Vou 
Athens. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
12pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
THE 8TH SUSTAINABILITY FOOD 
EXPO - PC EAST BALLROOM
University Centers presents the 8th Annual 
Sustainable Food Expo in celebration of National Food Month as well as, transitioning towards a happy, healthy and nutritious Fall. To support and promote UCSDs goal to serve Sustainable Food by 2019 and to reach Zero Waste Goal by 2020, University Centers wants to acknowledge and highlight local organizations and neighboring institutions who have made it a priority to provide more sustainable food systems in our community. Come and meet local and regional health care practitioners from all disciplines, sample scrumptiously healthy snacks, watch and participate in demonstrations, and explore endless possibilities for sustaining your mental and physical well-being. FREE EVENT!
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone! Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
7pm
ABLETON UNIVERSITY TOUR 2018 - 
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
RECITAL HALL
Ableton is proud to partner with UC San Diego 
for the Ableton University Tour, a day and evening of student workshops and public presentations held at the UC San Diego campus in La Jolla, CA. Students are invited to join Ableton representatives and Certified Trainers for an afternoon of break-out sessions exploring composition, sound design, production techniques and performance utilizing Ableton Live, Max for Live and Push. Day time activities will be followed by a free evening presentation open to the public, featuring performances, tips and tricks and unique approaches for music-making from artists and Ableton experts. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.comTUE10.23
THU10.25MON10.22
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE coffee, 
tea and snacks! Come destress with University 
Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
11am
STUDY ABROAD EXPO FAIR - PC 
BALLROOM WEST
Explore exciting global academic programs at 
Study Abroad UC San Diego's EXPO Fair on 
Monday, October 22nd. Organizations from all over 
the world will be at Price Center Ballroom West 
from 11 am - 3 pm to discuss study, work, 
volunteer, and internship opportunities abroad. 
Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
I-HOUSE: GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International 
Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! $5 per person, CASH ONLY. Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE MARIAS - THE LOFT
Formed in Los Angeles in late 2016, The Maras are the psychedelic-soul lovechild of LA native, Josh Conway and Puerto Rican-bred, Atlanta-raised Mara. With Mara on lead vocals and Josh on drums, the couple is joined by three of their closest friends and fellow musicians. On guitar, Jesse Perlman, born and bred of LA, with tones that can melt steel, say his bandmates. On bass, Canadian born and Berklee trained Carter Lee. On keys, Edward James. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 
7pm
ARTPOWER AND UC SAN DIEGO 
MUSIC PRESENTS INHERITANCE - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER 
EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Inheritance is a timely multimedia chamber 
opera about gun violence in America, based on the true story of Sarah Winchester, heir to the Winchester rifle fortune. With music by Lei Liang and libretto by Matt Donovan, Inheritance interweaves Winchesters story with events from contemporary American life, asking complex questions about complicity, atonement, and gun violence in our society. Led by music director Steven Schick and directed by Cara Consilvio, the performance also features Grammy Award-winning soprano Susan Narucki.FRI10.26
12pm
UCSD MEN'S WATER POLO VS. 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY - CANYONVIEW POOLS
UC San Diego Men's Water Polo
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS. CAL STATE SAN MARCOS - UC SAN DIEGO
UC San Diego Women's VolleyballSAT10.27WED10.24THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST LEVEL 2
10am
OASIS AT THE ZONE - THE ZONE
Stop by The Zone for free tutoring provided by 
OASIS. Subjects offered are Math and Chemistry. Study supplies provided. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad! Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
2:10pm
ILEAD WEEK 4 - RED SHOE ROOM, 
2ND FLOOR, PC WEST
Popular Culture Views with a Social Justice Lens 
Anger & Conflict Management: How to Argue and 
Manage Emotions (Part 1).
4pm
GLOBAL FORUM:LITTLE 
SOLDIERS- A STORY ON CHINA'S 
EDUCATION SYSTEM - THE GREAT HALL, INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Journalist Lenora Chu presents an on-the-ground 
story on Chinas education system through her personal journey as an American mother and journalist raising a family in Shanghai. The event is FREE to attend. Please RSVP at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/little-soldiers-a-story-on-chinas-education-system-tickets-50495810328
7pm
ANNA SEW HOY GUEST LECTURE - 
SME 149, STRUCTURAL & 
MATERIALS ENGINEERING 
BUILDING 
Artist Anna Sew Hoy has been selected as the 
inaugural Longenecker Artist in Residence. Known primarily for her sculptural work, the Los Angeles-based artist adeptly employs materials often relegated to categories of craft or handiwork. With large slabs of roughly hewn clay and deconstructed fabrics, Sew Hoy creates complex geometric compositions that radically shift depending on the vantage point. The artist contrasts hard and soft materials in conjunction with unusual forms that reference everyday objects, creating hybrid pieces that are both familiar and strange. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
7pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE LOFT 
#1 - THE LOFT
The quarterly open-mic night brought to you by 
UCSD AS Concerts & Events. Take your Wednesday night slow by winding down and appreciating your local campus talent. There will also be free flatbread pizza and fries, brought to you by Zanzibar at the Loft! Sign up to perform here: bit.ly/YATL1 Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SEA & BEACH
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. He eulogized Julius
5. ‘’Do ___ others as ... ’’9. It may be thrown at you
13. Word with staging or wilderness
14. Borden of condensed milk
15. Daughter of Helios and Perse16. Croat or Bulgar, e.g.17. Hale and hearty
19. Type of occasion
21. Globe
22. A sucker holds it23. Palindromic title26. Atomic number 53
28. Hale and hearty
32. Meat cuts from above the hips
33. Oldest of the Brady kids34. Carpenter’s nail38. Chowed down
39. Feeling guilt or remorse
42. Good feller
43. Seat of Irish kings45. Silver hair?46. ‘’Concerto for the Left Hand’’ com-
poser
48. Hale and hearty51. On ship54. Persona’s opposite55. Ring or rink figure56. Get long in the tooth58. Sweet fortified wine62. Hale and hearty66. Not quite a circle67. Cassette player button68. Veracious69. Love potion’s number70. Father on the farm71. Chiromancer, e.g.72. Word in a Maugham titleDOWN
 1. Father’s concern2. One of the singing Guthries3. Tangible
4. Troglodyte
5. Kampala’s country
6. Apprehend7. Sesame plant8. Bread spread
9. Action at Christie’s
10. Small African antelope
11. Kind of breeze12. Light anchor15. Computer programming language
18. Song section
20. Italian city near the Ligurian Sea
24. Thick-haired hound25. Satellite of Uranus27. Society inductee
28. Without fizz
29. Greek vowel
30. Layer31. Put down35. Underground dance party36. Figure skating jump37. ‘’Moon Calf’’ novelist40. Makeup mishap41. Euripides creation44. Simile words47. Edible marine gastropod49. Christian art figure50. Recipe direction51. One born on April 152. Joe Camp’s dog53. Put on the market57. Young newts59. Eager-beaverish60. Predatory group61. Sheltered, nautically63. Hotel sign64. Underground deposit65. LamentHOUSING
1818 McKee St $3250. This two-
bedroom and two-bathroom home is located in the Mission Hills neigh -
borhood in San Diego. It is a mere six-minute walk from the Green Line at the Washington St Station stop.... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
3727 & 3737 Grim Ave. $2395. Spacious 
2 bedroom unit in the heart of North 
Park - MUST SEE! In the Heart of North Park. Torrey Pines Property Management proudly offers this beau -
tifully updated 2br-2ba residence with new paint, plank flooring…  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
3520 3rd Ave. #207 $1895. One 
Bedroom Hillcrest near Scripps Mercy and UCSD Hospital - Large One Bedroom One Bath, Tiled entry/kitchen/dining. Granite Countertops in Kitchen and Bath. Underground park -
ing, elevator, intercom, pool, on-site laundry. SORRY, NO PETS...ucsdguard-
ian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionCARS
2019 Ford Transit 250. 2019 Ford 
Transit-250, T250, Cargo Van, New In 
Stock! Priced below MSRP!!! What a 
value** This outstanding Ford is 1 of 
the most sought after vehicles on the 
market because it NEVER lets owners 
down! ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
2017 MINI Hardtop 4 Door Cooper 
Cooper 4dr Hatchback. This 2017 MINI Cooper Hardtop 4 Door four door fea -
tures a 1.5L three CYL three cylinder Gasoline engine. It is equipped with a 6 Gear Automatic transmission. The vehicle is Electric Blue Metallic with a Carbon Black interior. ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2016 Ford F-150 Lariat. CARFAX single 
owner and buyback guarantee. Hurry and take advantage now!! Less than 9k miles!!! You don’t have to worry about depreciation on this tough Vehicle!!!!* New In Stock... This gas-saving F-150 will get you where you need to go... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
52CM FOUNDRY CHILKOOT! FULL SRAM RED! TITANIUM! ENVE FORK (Riverside)Hello, Up for sale is a lightly used 52cm FOUNDRY CHILKOOT titanium road bike. Bike has only been used a handful of times due to me having too many bikes (like many of us) The bike comes with full SRAM RED 22 and SRAM FORCE 22 BRAKES. $2,500 OBO ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2010 SE Quadangle 20” Freestyle. Mint 
Condition (Escondido). Showroom con -
dition bought for my kid after I bought 
him a dirt bike so maybe 2 mis on it. 
Black with red. Grips and pedals show no wear. Also comes with Landing 
Gear Forks not shown. Trade or looking 
for a 24” BMX bike jump type bike. In 
Escondido ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Mens Aluminum 26” Shaft drive Nexus 3 
speed. Great condition (Escondido) 26” 
Dekra Shaft drive bike. Aluminum frame. No messy chain or adjustments to deal 
with. Nexus three speed. In Escondido 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTEDSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduUCSD Soccer Regains No.1 Rank
▶ W. SOCCER , from page 16
All the pageantry is over and 
the stage is finally set for the 2018 
World Series. A fter 2,457 games since 
Opening Day on March 29, the race 
for the championship has finally been 
whittled down to two teams: the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Boston 
Red Sox. The perennial juggernaut 
from the West versus the seemingly 
overpowering force in the East, these two franchises have existed for a combined 252 years, and this is the first 
year that both are in the Series.
The Dodgers are back in the Series 
for the second straight season. A fter 
their crushing defeat last year at the 
hands of the Houston Astros, the 
Dodgers are back in the Fall Classic for another chance at winning it all. Last year’s matchup against Houston was a World Series for the ages, as not 
only did it run to seven games, but 
Game Five is widely considered to be one of the greatest baseball games ever played. Even though the Dodgers came 
within one game of winning it all last 
year, many Dodgers fans and players felt that their team could have done better. Last year, the Astros’ dominant pitching sta ff took advantage of holes 
in the Dodgers’ bats. The Dodgers’ 
batters struggled against curveballs and the Astros exploited that weakness, stealing the Series from right out under the Dodgers, who had been the favorite all year long. In 2017, the Dodgers had 
been fueled to the Series by rookie 
phenom Cody Bellinger, but Bellinger was terrible in the Series. The 2017 
National League Rookie of the Year 
went 4-for-28 with an abysmal 0.143 
batting average and 17 strikeouts in the Series against Houston. 
However, this year is di fferent. This 
year, the Dodgers have hit breaking balls exceptionally well. They recently 
dismantled an elite Brewers bullpen that relied on breaking balls to keep 
batters o ff balance all season, a bullpen 
that had the third-most strikeouts of 
any bullpen in baseball. Bellinger led the charge against Milwaukee and was 
named most valuable player of the 
National League Championship Series for his walk-o ff single in Game Four 
and go-ahead homer in Game Seven. This year the Dodgers have been on a 
mission to get back to the Series to gain what was lost last year, but the Boston Red Sox and the Big Green Monster stand firmly in their way.
The Boston Red Sox have laid waste 
to every team they have matched up against this season and are playing their best baseball of the season right now. During the season, the Red Sox 
won 108 games — the most any team 
has won since 2001 and the most the Red Sox have won in any year of their storied 117 years as a franchise. Last 
year the Red Sox were bounced out 
of the first round of the playo ffs, and 
when the New Y ork Y ankees acquired 2017 NL MVP Giancarlo Stanton, many questioned whether or not the Red Sox would even be a playo ff 
team this year. However, the Red Sox had other plans, as they acquired a slugger themselves in the form of J.D. Martinez. Martinez turned out to be a fantastic signing for Boston, as he 
led the American League in RBIs and 
finished second in both batting average 
and home runs — outshining Stanton in all three categories. Despite all the 
great numbers, Martinez was not even 
the Red Sox’s best weapon this year. That honor belongs to MVP favorite 
Mookie Betts, who led the American League in runs, batting average, and slugging percentage. The Red Sox have 
been firing on all cylinders all season 
long and have gotten career years out 
of many of their players. That train has 
kept on rolling into the postseason as 
the Sox dusted the 100-win New Y ork Yan ke e s  and  t he  1 0 3 - w i n  d e fe nd i ng  
World Champion Houston Astros, 
going a combined 7–1 in the two series. They became the only team to ever beat 
two 100-win teams in the postseason before getting to the Series, and they 
did it with ease. Last year, the Astros 
ran away with the championship, and this year, they were even better — yet the high-powered Red Sox o ffense still 
proved to be too much for even the league’s best pitching sta ff in Houston 
to handle. Boston has forced its way into the World Series and seems to be unstoppable.
The stage is finally set for Tuesday 
and there could not be a more exciting main event for the baseball season. In one corner stand the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, who have stormed back into 
the Series a fter losing last year and look 
to have fixed all problems that held 
them back. In the other corner stand the Boston Red Sox, whose MLB-leading o ffense has catapulted them 
past two 100-win teams and into the Series. Two historic cities, two storied franchises, two equally matched squads both vying for championship gold: It’s Boston versus Los Angeles. 
Who will reign supreme and become 
the 2018 World Series champion?
LA JOLLA, Calif.—On Friday 
evening in front of a Homecoming crowd, the UC San Diego men’ s 
water polo team defeated conference 
opponent, Concordia University Irvine, 15–4. With the win, UCSD moves to an overall 13–5 and 4–1 in the W estern 
Water Polo Association.
The Eagles scored right out the gates 
in the first 30 seconds of the game but 
the Tritons were quick to answer back. 
Junior Cooper Milton executed on a 
UCSD power play from senior Cole 
Martinez. Milton then went on to score again in the third period in addition to his 3 steals on the defensive end.Redshirt freshman Konstantin 
Karlov racked up a team-high of 3 
goals on the night. Contributing to his 
stellar hat trick, Karlov spread the love, collecting 3 assists on top of 2 steals.
A low-scoring second period 
allowed the Tritons to shine on defense. In addition to Milton and Karlov, five 
others tallied at least 1 steal to hold on to a 6–3 lead going into the break.
The Tritons outscored Concordia 
every period, except the second (1–1). Leading in shot attempts (30–25), powerplay opportunities (16–6), as well as a limited number of exclusions 
(6–18), UCSD had everything working 
for it.
Senior Alessandro V alania supplied 
the helping hand with 4 assists, 3 of which came in a row in the second half.
Sophomore Connor Turnbow-
Lindenstadt and senior Carson Ivancovich were perfect from the field, 
recording 2 goals in 2 attempts.
Redshirt junior goalies, Jack 
T urner and Sam Thompson, made 
appearances combining for 12 saves, 7 and 5, respectively. Thompson shut out 
the Eagles in the last period to secure the Triton win.
UCSD will host Princeton next 
Saturday, Oct. 27 at 12 p.m. to celebrate Senior Day and recognize the careers of five outstanding Triton student-
athletes.The UC San Diego women’s 
volleyball team is beginning to find its 
groove. For the first time this season, 
the team has won back-to-back games. Both wins came at home, and both were impressive. 
After coming out of its last week 
of games 1–1 on the road, the team took down the visiting Humboldt State University Jacks 3–0 (25–21, 25–19, and 25–15) on Friday, Oct. 19 and the 
Sonoma State University Seawolves 
3–1 (23–25, 25–17, 27–25, and 25–21) on Saturday, Oct. 20 to move to 9–11 on the season. 
The Tritons began their victories 
on Friday in their sweep of Humboldt State. In the first set, UCSD led 8–4 
early on before letting the Jacks back into the game. With both teams 
keeping it close for the majority of the 
set, the Tritons finally took control, 
going on a 5–1 run from 20–20 to win 25–21. The second set went di fferently 
though, as Humboldt State took an early 5–3 lead before ceding a 4–0 run to UCSD, which brought the score to 11–7. From then on the Tritons dominated, taking the set 25–19. The 
Jacks continued to fight in the third set 
but were quickly overwhelmed. A fter 
the visitors took the first point, UCSD 
took the next 6 points, 4 of which 
came from Humboldt State errors. 
The rout continued from there. The 
Tritons went out in front from there on out, going up by as much as 11 points before finally winning 25–15. UCSD 
junior middle blocker Jessica Rieble led the team with 12 kills, freshman libero Susanna Limb led the team with 16 digs, and freshman setter Brie Severino 
led the team with 30 assists. 
The next day the Tritons carried 
this momentum into a match against the visiting Seawolves. Both teams 
came into the game with 4–9 records in California Collegiate Athletic Association play, but the Tritons 
proved to be the better team. A fter 
Sonoma State took the first set 25–23, 
UCSD came back stronger in the 
second set. The home team went out 
to an early 5–3 lead and followed it up with 8 straight points, 4 of which came 
from Rieble. Sonoma State would later 
bring the score back to 17–13 with 2 kills from junior outside hitter Tate Battistini, but the Tritons closed out 
the set on an 8–4 run, winning 25–17. 
The third set was much like the 
first, as both teams battled throughout 
and tied the score five times over the 
course of the set. UCSD came out firing to start the set, taking a 9–4 
with 4 kills from sophomore outside 
hitter Gina Cortesi, who transferred from Louisiana Tech University a fter 
last season. Sonoma State would pick it up from this point on, though. It took the lead for much of the later part of the set, going up 23–19 and then 24–21. The Tritons pushed back with 
kills from junior transfer outside hitter Sydney Tekstra and tied the score at 24–24 and 25–25 before taking the set, 27–25. The fourth set played out much 
like the first and third, with the largest 
lead for either side being 2 points until UCSD went ahead 24–21 and 25–21,, with 2 kills and a block from Tekstra and a kill by Rieble. 
The team will look to continue its 
success at home next week on Saturday, Oct. 27 against the 7–7 California State University, San Marcos Cougars. A 
win would mean the start of a three-
game win streak, a feat which UCSD accomplished three separate times last season.
Opening Pitch: World Series 
Breakdown
No. 10 Tritons Roll Over Concordia Irvine in WWPA inside of the le ft post, just outside the 
goalkeeper’s outstretched arms. As the 
ball flew into the back of the net, Reilly 
ran back to celebrate with her team. 
Less than 10 minutes later, she 
lit up the scoreboard again: With an assist by senior mid fielder Summer 
Bales, Reilly nailed the ball into the le ft 
corner of the goal from 25 yards out. The third and final point of the game 
was scored by senior forward Megumi 
Barber. Assisted by Reilly and Bales, 
Barber’s le ft-footed chip shot bounced 
over the goalie across the goal line.
Early in the game, redshirt junior 
goalkeeper Angelica Ramos took a cleat to the face and was forced to exit 
the game. Diving low to cover up a ball, Ramos caught the boot of a CSULA forward as she attempted a shot. Sophomore goalkeeper Katie Wilkes 
was substituted in and finished the 
game for the Tritons. The exact nature 
of Ramos’s injury is unclear (she was 
seen icing her eye on the sideline a fter 
she left the game) and no timeline has 
been issued regarding her return to action. Losing their most experienced and capable goalkeeper is a huge issue for the Tritons, especially as UCSD 
looks forward to the postseason. Since last season (her first full season as a 
starter), Ramos has been a reliable last 
line of defense for the Tritons, posting 
12 shutouts and a 83.3 save percentage 
in 2017. Ramos’s consistency and experience is something Wilkes has yet to develop (the backup has only 
has three career starts). This game, 
UCSD was able to keep the ball on 
the other half of the field most of 
the game. Wilkes was never under 
constant pressure. If Ramos remains 
sidelined, goalkeeper will be a position 
of concern as UCSD for the rest of the 2018 season, especially as the games become more challenging and 
competitive.
The women’s soccer team closes 
out homecoming weekend on Sunday. 
In their last home game of the season, the Tritons look to continue their four-
game win streak against California 
State University, Dominguez Hills. UCSD will finish the remainder of its 
season on the road, squaring o ff against 
California State University, Stanislaus and California State University, Chico.
Women’s Volleyball 
Wins Back-To-BackTwo titans of baseball face-off in the World Series: the LA Dodgers and Boston Red Sox
UCSD improves to 4–1 in the WWPA conference standings.UCSD takes six-of-seven sets against CCAA opponents.
BY LUCAS ARMSTRONG
staff Writer
BY jack DORFMAN
CONTRIBUTING Writer
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edulucas armstrong  lqarmstr@ucsd.edu
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@gmail.comPHOTO COURTESY OF UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF JOSE MORALES
BY Madeline Lewis
Senior Staff writer16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at USC
at Stanislaus Stateat Stanislaus Stateat Chico Statevs PrincetonUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
M Soccer
W SoccerW Soccer
M Water PoloAll Day
4:30PM
7PM
11:30AM
12PM10/2410/2510/2510/2710/27
U-Pass is valid through 
June 30, 2019.  Use your iPhone or Android as your mobile ticket to ride. Sign up for U-Pass Cloud today!
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Student fees provide unlimited rides 
for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded. 
Current registration/enrollment and valid 
@ucsd.edu email address required.Get your new school year 
U-Pass today!
u-pass.ucsd.edu
LA JOLLA - The UC San Diego women’s 
soccer team faced o ff against the California State 
University, Los Angeles Eagles in a California 
Collegiate Athletic Association conference match. 
In a dominant 3–0 win, the women’s soccer team rises to a 13–1–1 overall record (8–1 record in CCAA play) and retake the No. 1 rank in its 
conference.
Despite the 0–0 score going into hal ftime, 
UCSD dominated the first half. The Tritons 
had multiple missed opportunities to score, 
attempting 10 shots compared to CSULA ’s 2. 
However, none of those shots were able to hit home. Superb goalkeeping by the Golden Eagles 
kept the Tritons scoreless.
While the Tritons were unable to score in 
the first period, it seemed like the Tritons could 
not stop scoring in the second period. Senior 
forward Mary Reilly started o ff UCSD’s o ffensive 
spree with a goal early in the half. Redshirt junior 
midfielder Natalie Saddic connected with Reilly 
on a line drive along the sideline. Catching the 
ball in stride, Reilly le ft her defender in the dust 
and raced to the goal. At the upper right corner 
of the box, only the goalkeeper stood between her and the net. From the right corner of the box, Reilly launched the ball across the goal to the Tritons Regain No.1 Rank 
After Dominating Eagles 
Despite injury to goalkeeper Angelica Ramos, UCSD rallies to defeat 
CSULA in homecoming game.
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN
BY Wesley xiao
STAFF WRiter
See W. SOCCER,  page 15