The latest addition to UC San Diego’s Stuart  
Art Collection was revealed this past 
weekend and can now be found at the 
entrance to Roger Revelle College on Ridge Walk, 
near the university’s Main Gym. The installation, 
a 185-foot pole entitled What Hath God Wrought , 
signals the piece’s title in Morse code through the intermittent flashing of red lights from a lantern at 
the top.
The artist, Los Angeles–based Mark Bradford, 
drew inspiration from the first Morse code message to ever be sent in 1844. The message, which read “WHAT HATH GOD WROUGHT,” marked a critical turning point in the field of communication, 
eventually paving the way for modern virtual 
communication. 
The pole has surpassed Building One in The 
Village at Torrey Pines in height by a margin of 2 feet, making it the tallest structure on campus. 
Revelle College Council meeting notes from 
May 27, 2016 reveal that Bradford’s pole presented a challenge unprecedented in the history of the Stuart Collection: Because of the height of the piece, the 
design had to be approved by the Federal Aviation 
Administration before it could be implemented to ensure the safety of low-flying aircraft. 
“We think it’s a very powerful message about the 
beginning of communication and [communication] as we know it today, ” Stuart Collection director 
Mary Beebe wrote to the UCSD Guardian.Funding for each addition to the Stuart Collection 
is privately raised by Beebe.
“I think about artists who we think could be 
interesting for the campus, ” Beebe explained to the UCSD Guardian in an email. “Then I invite them to 
campus (we pay a proposal fee and expenses), and if they come up with an idea we think we like, we 
develop a proposal to submit to the Advisory Board. 
If they approve, we proceed with UCSD clearance (for site, safety, etc.) and the Chancellor has final 
approval. ”
As senior philosophy major Sam Sprague noted, 
“The new installation reminds me of the minarets 
on the Hagia Sophia which, like this piece, were 
built for communication. But unlike minarets, 
which are used to call people to prayer, this tower repeatedly flashes the first message ever sent in 
Morse code, which seems appropriate for a STEM-
centered school like UCSD. ”
While the concept of What Hath God Wrought is 
generally lauded by some, others are critical of the aesthetics of the piece. 
“The idea is cool, but the appearance of the pole 
is not totally artistic, ” John Muir College senior Huinan Pang said. “Since the pole symbolizes the role of technology in the interconnectedness of the 
world, Revelle was an interesting placement choice. 
It feels a little like a warning to people trying to 
From Nov. 1 to Nov. 3, Students 
for the Exploration and Development of Space at UC San Diego hosted this year’s SpaceVision networking 
conference, one of the largest 
intracompany networking events in 
the world available for students. Run 
entirely by SEDS students, the event drew industry l in Fashion Valley to 
mingle and share their ideas.
Lockheed Martin was the title 
sponsor of the event, with other companies including the Boeing Co., 
Analytical Graphics Inc., and Virgin 
Orbit assisting with the event’s 
financial needs.
Founded in 1980, SEDS is 
an international student-based organization focused on the 
promotion of space exploration and 
development through educational engineering projects. Currently, 
SEDS is comprised of 86 chapters 
across the United States and several dozen international chapters. 
The UCSD chapter of SEDS 
was founded in 2012 by Deepak Atyam, Benjamin Liu, and Joshua and Kenneth Benedictos. According 
to their chapter’s website, these 
founders helped create the first 3D printed rocket engine made by a 
student organization.
Eric Shnell from SEDS UCSD 
told the UCSD Guardian that their 
chapter is focused primarily on technical aspects over everything 
else. 
“A  l o t  o f  o t h e r  g r o u p s  [ i n  
SEDS] focus overall on expanding VOLUME 52, ISSUE 6  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 5, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Builds Country’s 
First Road Made with Recycled Plastic Binder
The construction method is a step 
towards reducing both the carbon 
footprint and plastic waste of UCSD.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
BY stephanie begle
Contributing Writer
SEDS UCSD Hosts Student-Run National Inudstry Conference
A student gets her face painted at a Dia de los Muertos celebration in Canyon Vista.  McKenna Johnson // UCSD GuardianUC San Diego is taking the 
initiative to head toward a greener 
society by installing the United 
States’ first asphalt road made with a recycled plastic binder as opposed to 
a petroleum-based bitumen binder. 
UCSD enlisted the U.K.-based company MacRebur Ltd. to test out 
its patented plastic road concept 
on a portion of Miramar Street and Regents Road near the Mesa Nueva 
graduate student housing complex.
“Recycled plastic binders are 
‘closing the loop’ by using plastic that had been used for something 
else and giving it new life, keeping the plastic out of our landfills and 
oceans, ” Campus Sustainability 
Manager Sara McKinstry said. “The recycled plastic product also has a 
lower embodied carbon footprint 
than traditional bitumen, preventing some greenhouse gases from being 
emitted and contributing to climate 
change. ” 
Plastic waste has become an 
overarching problem for the world, 
and MacRebur created this plastic 
road technology to create a greener way of maintaining roads across the 
globe. It is estimated that some 420 
million tons of plastic is produced annually by humans. Plastic waste 
poses an environmental threat to 
the world, as it does not break down expeditiously. 
The United States alone has 4 
million miles of roads to maintain. If this method were to be used more 
widely, the impact on reducing 
plastic waste would be enormous, according to UCSD Constructions 
Commodity Manager Gary Oshima. 
“There has been very favorable 
research conducted on the product in the United Kingdom and 
Australia,” Oshima said, “and our intent will be to conduct additional 
tests to confirm the benefits. There 
are no known detrimental effects of the product, but we will be testing 
the road to determine its viability 
beyond our campus in California and the U.S. ”
Oshima contacted MacRebur, 
which has already installed some plastic roads in the U.K. and 
Australia. MacRebur had also 
expressed interest in finding the perfect location in the U.S. where 
it could introduce its plastic road 
technology. UCSD has actively updated its policies around clean 
energy, zero waste, and sustainable By abigail staggemeier   staff writerCAMPUS
Giant, Blinking Pole is Newest Piece in Stuart Art CollectionPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
ALL ABOUT THE
ART OF ESPRESSO
The co-owner of 
the popular student 
hangout Th e Art of 
Espresso discusses why 
his coffee kiosk is so 
popular and how it 
contributes to the UCSD 
community.
HIDE  AND  GO  SEEK
KHALIDA  New  national  League
a  new  EP  "Suncity"Opinion,  Page   4
A&E, Page 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “Even though 
the United States 
Food and Drug 
Administration allows 
people to be paid for 
their blood, it strongly 
encourages blood 
to come strictly from 
donations..... ”MONDAY
 H 78 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 73 L 55
TUESDAY
H 74 L 57
THURSDAY
H 76 L 57
VOLUNTOURISM..........4
SABRINA.......................9
THAILAND...................11
SOUP PETITION..........12
W. VOLLEYBALL.........15CAMPUS
Suzanne Golshanara
Economize It
 PAGE 4The group of engineers dedicated to space exploration mingled with members from chapters across the world.
BY tyler faurot
news editor
See SPACE,  page 3 See PLASTIC,  page 3See ART,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ANYONE CAN JOIN By Michi Sora
POCKET
Wednesday Nov. 7
FREE  FOOD , DRINKS,
SD LOCAL PERFORMERS
FOLLOW  US ONOld Student Center , 2nd level• 6: 30-8pmOFFICEAT
Special thanks to KSDT
for helping set upThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Jeffery the Giraff e knocks hooves.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  Chik
Darren LamEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin, Alex Rickard
Copy Readers 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas
Rowena Ma  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 On their 48th wedding 
anniversary, Herbert Wertheim and 
his wife Nicole Wertheim donated 
$25 million to UC San Diego in the area of public health. 
The Wertheims’ donation 
contributes to the Campaign for UC San Diego, a $2-billion fundraising 
effort that aims to enhance students’ 
experiences, campus resources, and 
research opportunities. The school 
has raised $1.7 billion since the campaign began in 2012.
As UCSD prepares for a proposed 
new school of public health, the campus will commit the $25 million to the public health initiative. The 
university hopes to receive an additional $50 million donation to construct a new building site upon the approval of the University of 
California. The pledged donation 
is dependent on its approval by UC 
leadership.
Herbert Wertheim is the 
founder and CEO of Brain Power Incorporated, the largest ophthalmic 
instruments and chemicals 
manufacturer worldwide. He has discovered the cause of cataracts 
and retinal deterioration by UV 
lights and produced UV light dye absorbers for eyeglasses. Wertheim 
and his wife are also the members 
of the Giving Pledge, a campaign that encourages wealthy people 
to donate more than half of their 
wealth to charity. 
“The most important thing 
we can achieve is making our communities healthier across their lifespan, and thus more productive, ” 
Herbert Wertheim said in a press release. “Prevention is, and always will be, the best medicine. ”
Public health is the study of 
disease prevention and health promotion. 
“The field of public health is 
uniquely positioned to address fundamental issues in population 
health including providing e ffective 
health care for the underserved 
and healthy aging, ” Vice Chancellor 
for UCSD Health Sciences David Brenner said in a press release. 
“The public health challenges 
we face in San Diego and across the country will require that we 
mobilize local partnerships to solve 
community problems, ”  Interim Chair of the Department of Family 
Medicine and Public Health Cheryl 
Anderson said in a press release. 
Herbert Wertheim was also 
involved in the La Jolla Institute for Allergy and Immunology and is a 
colleague of Brenner and Anderson. 
“David Brenner has been a friend 
for five years, and we’ve talked about 
this initiative, ” Herbert Wertheim 
said in a press release. “David has just been fantastic to work with, as 
well as Cheryl Anderson. ”
Since the establishment of the 
UCSD Institute for Public Health in 2014, the university has improved 
the health of the community and encouraged multidisciplinary 
partnership. The campus currently 
offers a bachelor’s and a master’s 
degree in public health, as well as a joint doctoral degree program with 
San Diego State University. UCSD Receives $25 Million Donation From Inventor and Wife for New Public Health School
The donation depends on the approval of the University of California before it can be used towards the proposed school’s development.UC SYSTEM
Zhuoying Lin  zhl509@ucsd.eduBY Zhuoying Lin
Contributing writer
follow us 
on twitter 
@UCSDGuardianNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
General Reaction to New Art Piece is Mixed
▶ ART , from page 1
Abigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.edumeddle with things that shouldn’t be 
meddled with. ”
Others are concerned that 
the installation’s significance is overshadowed by its own 
appearance. 
“While the concept is interesting, 
the installation itself is aesthetically bland and doesn’t offer anything 
very substantial to the campus,” Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
Mekalyn Steve said. “ [It doesn’t] 
communicate its artistic purpose to 
most viewers who lack knowledge of its backstory. ”
Former Provost of Revelle 
College Paul Yu shared his thoughts on the latest addition with Beebe. 
“A m o n g  t h e  f o g . . . i t  l o o k s  a s  i f  
it is reaching the sky and beyond, ” Yu said.
What Hath God Wrought is 
the 20th addition to the Stuart Collection. The collection began in 1998, with the mission of 
preserving and growing UCSD’s 
outdoor sculpture collection. Notable pieces include Fallen Star, 
Snake Path, Two Running Violet V 
Forms (affectionately referred to by 
students as “giraffe catchers”), and the iconic Sun God statue. If  Successful, Plastic Roads Could Be Used For Projects Across the Country 
▶ PLASTIC , from page 1
procurement, so the campus was considered the perfect candidate to 
begin the trend of plastic roads. The 
company even offered to donate the plastic for the first installation on 
campus.
“Creating alternative uses for 
recycled plastic will be a crucial challenge that we all must resolve, and maintaining over 4 million 
miles of roads in the United States 
will be an ever-growing problem, ” 
Oshima said. 
UCSD California Public Interest 
Research Group Chair Sophie Haddad expressed enthusiasm for the project. 
“It is fantastic to see my school 
continue leading the way in implementing sustainable practices like this, ” Haddad told the UCSD 
Guardian. “These roads address 
plastic pollution and help us pave a way toward a cleaner future. 
Students here love our beaches so much, so it’s great to see UCSD 
taking action to recycle plastics 
so they don’t end up polluting the 
ocean!”
This project will be useful to 
determine the viability for usage outside of the UCSD area. With over three dozen 
Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design-certified 
buildings, a campus vehicle fleet that is among the greenest in the 
nation, and one of the world’s 
most advanced microgrids that generates approximately 85 percent 
of the electricity used on campus annually, UCSD is on track with its 
sustainability goals. To learn more 
about sustainability at UCSD, visit 
sustainability.ucsd.edu.
 
Startups Founded by UCSD Alumni T abled at Event
▶ SPACE , from page 1
 Tyler Faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.eduawareness, teaching people about space, stuff like that, doing their own 
stuff for appreciation, ” Shnell said. 
“We don’t do that as much. We just focus more on the engineering side 
of things. ”
Shnell stressed that this did not 
mean that other chapters weren’t as competitive in their field.
“Lockheed [Martin] and 
companies like that still need marketing teams or recruitment 
people, so those people are still valuable, ” Shnell said, “but we feel 
that engineering is more our focus, 
so we strive toward that. ”
Tabling at the conference were 
startups Rocket Lab and Additive Rocket Corporation, a company founded by former SEDS UCSD 
members. 
“People who come to our tables are not so much looking to get a 
job, but are more looking for 
guidance. We’re like the cool uncle, 
you know? People kind of come out of their shell, ” Director of Product 
Development for ARC Alec Kochis 
said, “Where bigger companies are like the Budweisers at these events, 
we’re more like the craft breweries 
focused on making the perfect product. We’re really passionate 
about the craft. ”
This weekend’s SpaceVision is 
the 12th annual conference, with last year’s being hosted at the University 
of Central Florida. Arizona State University has been selected to host 
the next conference in 2019.Stephanie Begle  sbegle@ucsd.edu
We are 
half way 
through the 
quarter!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINION
No market faces the same 
challenges as that of the American 
blood bank, where all supply is 
determined by the unreliable and 
irregular altruism of donors. With blood being the life-saving product that it is, this donation-based 
business model routinely falls short 
of its actual needs and is in need of broad reform.
Blood banks are placed in a 
precarious situation, as they either 
have more blood than they could 
possibly need or not nearly enough. Blood is a perishable commodity that must be used within 42 days. 
Thus, people must be willing to 
donate blood on a regular, year-round basis in order for blood banks to have an adequate supply. In reality, blood banks, which are 
subject to the whims and fancies 
of the public, tend to have bouts of excess blood and blood shortages. In emergencies, such as in the case 
of a natural disaster, terrorist attack, 
or school shooting, people have the tendency to run to their nearest blood bank to donate. However well-intentioned this altruism may 
be, it is largely unhelpful and can 
even be harmful. Immediately after 9/11, Americans nationwide lined up to donate at their local 
blood banks and donated over 
475,000 units of blood. The flood of donations quickly overwhelmed blood-collection centers, and in the end, only 258 units of blood were 
used. Thousands of units of blood 
had to be thrown away. 
Conversely, blood banks often 
experience shortages, especially during the summer and winter holidays. Several programs meant to alleviate seasonal blood 
shortages include incentivizing 
donations by using non-monetary gifts and notifying the public about the existence of a blood shortage to encourage them to donate. Unlike 
typical markets where supply and 
demand intersect at an optimal equilibrium point, blood banks rely on donations to get their supply 
of blood. If blood banks were to 
pay people for blood, they would be able to decrease or increase the supply of blood at any given time. This practice would give blood 
banks greater control over blood 
supply and make them far less likely to have to endure dramatic swings in supply. Such greater control and efficiency can be seen 
in the American market for plasma, 
in which people are paid to donate. As one of the few countries that allows people to be paid for their 
plasma, the United States exports a 
majority of its plasma to countries like Canada and Australia that hypocritically ban paying their own citizens for plasma because of 
ethical quandaries. 
Even though the United States 
Food and Drug Administration 
allows people to be paid for their 
blood, it strongly encourages blood 
to come strictly from donations because of concerns that people may lie about their health and eligibility to donate if there is Picture this: a vast arena of varying terrain spreading out into the distance, dozens of people scattering around, finding the most obscure places to hide in, while another 
team begins a frantic search for them as the clock ticks ever so quickly toward zero. Sounds familiar, right? Hide-and-go-seek is a game seemingly universal to everyone who has ever been a kid; all the game requires is a handful of friends, an open 
space with some good hiding spots, and the imagination. So 
why does a game so loved by everyone have to go away as the populace transitions from youth to adulthood? There is a collective longing for the days of our youth, to find some way to get even a taste of the carefree lives we lived before entering 
the “lucrative” world of adulthood.
One of the few things some have held on to from their youth 
is sports — a fantastical realm of competition, high stakes, 
and wide ranges of emotions that — in the grand scheme of 
things — are meaningless. If we are to put such an emphasis on 
something that will never directly affect our lives, people ought to find a way to bring a more universal childhood game into the mainstream so that all may have an outlet to escape into when the going gets tough. 
In an effort to provide greater access to the escapism of youth 
so many people long for, the United States needs to implement the National Hide and Go Seek League . The setup for such a national pastime would be simple: Much like with football, 
hockey, and soccer, competitions would be held regionally 
across the country, which would culminate in a National Hide and Go Seek Championship. This would be held in a different city every year. However, where the NHGSL would differ from current professional sports leagues is that it would be anything but that; teams would be open to anyone who would like to 
participate, and spots would be given to those who successfully 
out-hide their competitors on a regional basis. Fairness would be guaranteed through not allowing those who have previously been selected to do so again for a number of years.
Such an undertaking may seem broad and expansive, but 
the benefits far outweigh the costs. First and foremost, creating a whole new industry under the realm of athletics would offer an opportunity for cities to gain an economic boost without the associated costs. Unlike many other sports, the NHGSL would 
not require expensive venues which, according to research 
from Bryant University, leads to economic losses. The idea of hide-and-o-eek is that the best hiding spots are difficult to find, so reusing the same ones every year would defeat the purpose 
of the sport. Instead, hosting cities would run these events 
similar to marathons, where the venue is the city’s existing infrastructure. The only financial burdens the cities would have to account for would be the unavailability of the areas used during the couple hours of the event, which are minute 
compared to the costs of stadiums.
Additionally, the cities that host the more competitive 
competitions would likely see an economic boost. In 2015, 
the four-day weekend surrounding the Chicago Marathon had 
a $277-million impact on the city’s economy, which included 
increases of revenue for the local businesses both immediately near the race route and in the surrounding area. The larger 
See NHGSL, page 5
See BLOOD, page 5The stakes of getting into medical school are 
higher than ever, and many students are looking 
for ways to make their resumes the “diamond in the 
rough.” One popular solution is to offshore one’s 
education to developing countries and work with 
underprivileged citizens by offering them medical care. Medical voluntourism, at first glance, may seem like a noble and virtuous way to spend one’s vacation, however, in reality, it has detrimental effects on the patients, health care system, and infrastructure of the country visited.
 Medical voluntourism is characterized by 
taking short trips abroad to developing countries 
and providing voluntary medical care. However, 
this process permits untrained and underqualified students with little experience to practice directly 
on patients who require a higher degree of care 
and sometimes without the careful policies of 
U.S. malpractice law. In addition, volunteers 
usually donate short periods of time to the cause, leaving patients without long-term treatment plans. This is destructive to the lives of people who 
require consistent, continuous therapy and medical 
assistance. Without the ability to travel or afford 
better treatment, patients are left with little option 
but to accept the short-term care at hand. 
In addition, medical voluntourism shifts the 
priority from training long-term local medical 
employees and residents to training temporary 
student volunteers. Much of the independent work 
done by students could instead be given as training 
to nurses and doctors within the area. While work completed with residents can sometimes 
facilitate an exchange of experiences, it often 
backfires due to a lack of communication and the forecfulness of the American students. Since local 
patients are commonly unable to afford any better 
treatment, this forces them to accept the lower-
quality treatment that poorly trained students can 
offer. Patients in areas receiving medical tourists are also less likely to invest in their own health insurance, opting instead for the cheaper but 
less-reliable care from students. Residents then 
encounter irregular periods of access to healthcare 
making them susceptible to outbreaks. 
The change needed in the medical voluntourism 
industry can start here at UC San Diego. 
Although the clubs here are better regulated in terms of volunteer ethics, there is still room for improvement. This year, the Global Medical Brigades club is taking a trip to Latin America; 
the club has gone on 13 brigades, raising over 
$570,000 for multiple two-week trips, and 
profiting off the undergraduate desire to work in 
the medical field under the pretense that they are helping developing countries. In reality, they are 
developing their own resumes without having to 
find competitive internships or heavily regulated 
work in the United States. The volunteers are given 
the opportunity to take vitals and patient history, shadow licensed doctors in medical consultations, and assist in a pharmacy under the direction of 
licensed pharmacists. However, there is no long-
term plan to develop these countries’ healthcare 
system. Another student organization, the Flying 
Samaritans, raise $8,500 every year to travel to Mexico and “educate” youth about healthcare practices. That amount of money could be better 
used to provide underprivileged youth with daily 
health products such as bandages, painkillers, and 
feminine hygiene products. Better yet, it could 
be used to aid a local school nurse’s paycheck, who remains in the country year-round and can 
be accessible for the long-term health of patients.
The competition in California to receive 
hospital internships or even shadow a doctor is skyrocketing, and medical voluntourism seems to 
offer a quick solution to this, especially for those 
with the money to shell out. Flying Samaritans 
and the Global Medical Brigades club advertise their events and volunteer trips to any passionate university students with virtually no recruitment 
or selection process, making it an easy work-
around for students looking to gain experience 
in the healthcare field. UCSD does a mediocre 
job of regulating club activities, and has allowed these trips to go on for years without a complete understanding of their negative impact. Instead, the money they have raised could be used to establish medical, government, and educational infrastructure. It could also increase public health 
research and develop human capital to create a 
long-term plan that would end these lavish trips 
completely. If we do not take steps to encourage 
the countries we visit to develop themselves, we only work them into a cycle of dependence, 
ensuring an indefinite number of brigades and 
voluntourism trips in the future. The university and 
the clubs that sponsor medical volunteer trips must 
come to the understanding of the true influence and ethics of their work and make changes to their long-term plans accordingly.
 V oluntourism, a poorly regulated, $173 billion 
industry, is shamelessly fueled by international 
agencies charging thousand-dollar trips with the 
promise of self-fulfillment. Although the industry is known for grossly profiting off of developing countries, there are better routes available for the 
determined volunteer. Organizations can fundraise 
with the same energy for the cause and can 
invest in organizations that have established long-
term plans to aid the community. If students choose to offshore volunteer efforts abroad, they 
ought to search for voluntourism agencies that 
are economically, socially and environmentally minded as well as focused on a long-term goal of 
developing the country instead of profiting from it.Medical Voluntourism Leaves Patients With Poor 
and Inconsitent Care By: Jacob Sutherland // Senior Sta ff Writer
By: Rajee Ganesan // Contributing WriterBlood MoneySeeking Childhood Joy: The 
Hide and Seek National 
LeagueBy: Suzanne Golshanara //
 Senior Sta ff WriterEconomize It
Rajee  Ganesan  rganesan@ucsd.eduOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
money on the line. These are genuine concerns about whole 
blood, since plasma is typically broken down before use in pharmaceuticals but never directly infused into a person’s 
system.. Whether or not it is donated or paid for, whole blood 
is tested for safety. Concerns about paid blood are currently based on a small body of research, and further research needs to be done to see whether concerns about paid blood are 
statistically sound or simply unsubstantiated worries.  
The current system for collecting blood has many flaws 
that can and should be remedied. Compensating people for their blood, either through cash or nonmonetary gifts, would 
create a more regular supply of blood and would even allow blood banks to request more of the blood types that are high 
in demand. Since blood is such a vital and life-saving product, 
altruism cannot be solely relied upon to provide an adequate supply. Rather, a more stable source of blood can and should be achieved by incentivizing people to donate.NHGSL competitions would likely have similar impacts on the host cities, as an increase in visitors to the city would 
produce a short but substantial economic boost.
Furthermore, the NHGSL would provide greater 
accessibility for everyone to participate in athletics. Currently, 
the national sports industry has a certain sense of elitism; 
certain levels of skill and financial ability are needed in order 
to even begin thinking about participating in any given sport. For the most part, hide-and-g seek does not require a lot of skill to get into the game; there is a certain level of chance involved with being found, so the ability for anyone to win 
or lose is ultimately up to the decision-making ability of the 
seeker. NHGSL would open the door to mainstream athletic 
participation for everyone who wants to join, regardless of 
socioeconomic background.
Most importantly, making hide-and-go-seek a national 
sport would promote health and wellness for those currently 
without an athletic outlet. Nearly 1 in 3 people in the United 
States are obese, and rates of heart disease, diabetes, and other diseases with some relation to lifestyle decisions are on the rise. Because hide-and-go-seek’s increased accessibility 
compared to other types of athletics, the general population’s 
ability to obtain these benefits would increase substantially while also helping to decrease the effects of current health crises.
The joys of our youth are full of memories rooted in the 
carefree nature of our childhoods. By creating a new national pastime that connects everyone through a universally beloved game, the United States would create the opportunity for short-term economic boosts to cities, allow a greater access to 
athletic pastimes, and promote greater levels of general health 
and wellness. At the end of the day, life is hard, so why not run 
and hide from our problems every now and then.
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTEDwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SYSTEM32  By Anonymous▶ NHGSL , from page 4
▶ BLOOD , from page 4Jacob Sutherland  Jsuther @ucsd.edu
Suzanne Golshanara   smgolsha@ucsd.edu
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
 
Any UC San Diego student winding through the halls of the Old 
Student Center or making their way through the eucalyptus trees past the Mandeville Center is sure to have passed by The 
Art of Espresso, a hub of socializing and studying students and faculty, all with cups of coffee in their hands. At first glance, The Art of Espresso might appear to be just another one of the many coffee carts that dot UCSD’s campus. However, this particular coffee cart isn’t part of a chain, 
and it’s not just another coffee cart: It fosters a community space for 
students, faculty, teaching assistants, and visitors alike. 
Co-owner of The Art of Espresso Sam Belfer remembers when he and 
his business partner, Patricia Collins, first started the business in 1999. At the time, coffee shops hadn’t yet become as popular as they are today. The 
duo decided to team up to serve 
coffee together and realized that a university, a place with a need for coffee and community, would be 
a perfect location to do so. Before 
they set up shop, the space — now a popular student hangout — was bare and uninviting.
“When we started, there was 
nothing here, ” Belfer said. “People didn’t really even walk in this direction. We had a couple of 
tables, and we used to take turns 
doing the crossword puzzle, and one of us would help a customer. We slowly built up a space [in which] we thought people would, with a little bit of culture, want to hang out. In the beginning, people weren’t 
used to us being nice. People would walk by, and we would say ‘hello. ’ We 
had music going, and we were drinking our coffee. We kind of brought that coffee shop vibe to campus. Slowly, there would be a following, and people started to get it. ”
Even when the sky is gloomy and there’s a chill in the air, the tables 
scattered across the pavement at The Art of Espresso are filled with customers, some of whom are chatting and others who are working on their laptops. Around the time when classes end, customers come flooding in and a long line begins to form. A typical, coffeehouse-themed 
tune floats through the air: The Art of Espresso plays a variety of genres, 
from jazz to reggae and everything in between.
The Art of Espresso serves a variety of hot and cold beverages. Coffees, 
lattes, mochas, teas, and hot chocolates fill up its menu, and some of its specials are quite creative with their flavors. Patrons can sample a Mountain Man (a hazelnut mocha), a turmeric honey tea latte, and a white lavender mocha. There’s also a smoothie selection for a great price. 
True to the cart’s name, the espressos make up some of the best orders 
on the menu.
“We always joke that if Patty and I only sold what we liked, it would 
be single espressos and chocolate croissants, ” Belfer said. “Our espresso 
is really tasty. Some of the blended drinks, especially the Blended Bliss, 
which is like a blended mocha, are popular. We also try to keep it fresh. We’ve got pumpkin spice for this time of year.”
Belfer doesn’t spend much time at the other coffee carts on campus, 
but he thinks that his business’s strict attention to detail, excellent staff, 
and spot-on customer service sets it apart. He knows the importance of delivering a quality cup of coffee in a short amount of time, 
especially to accommodate hectic 
student schedules.
“We’ve always tried to find that 
sweet spot of high-quality product at a reasonable price, with lots 
of good customer service, ” Belfer 
said.  “For me, when I’m out in the world and going to various shops, 
customer service typically lacks 
nowadays. You go to places, and you wait around forever.It’s our 
goal to try to make the most of this business while the opportunity is here. People are busy; they’re going off to class, so we try to get everybody a 
really good product at a really good price and with a personal interaction. ”
Belfer’s goal has always been to create a community space on campus. 
He thinks UCSD could use a little more community, especially for the 
sake of the students living on campus. 
“I hope we’re a space where the community can come together, 
from top to bottom, ” Belfer said. “It’s an organic space. Certainly, we’ve facilitated and laid the groundwork. But now, it’s become this organic space where people can interact. It can be a professor, the vice chancellor, a student, a TA. Everybody can kind of exist in the same space. I think we 
created the initial space for that to happen, and then it became an organic 
thing; now it just feeds on itself. ”The co-owner 
of the popular 
student hangout The Art of 
Espresso discusses why his co ffee 
kiosk is so popular and how it contributes to the UCSD community. 
By Charlotte Armstrong // 
Senior Sta ff 
WriterBut First, 
Coffee: 
All About 
The Art of 
Espresso 
Coffee Cart
ILLUSTRATION BY ALLYSON LLACUNA
SeeCOFFEE CART , page 7
“There have been so many ups and downs 
since we’ve been here, ” Belfer said. “There 
are people who met here and ended up getting married. For both Obama victories, I was here. We’ve lived through some construction periods. I was here serving 
coffee when 9/11 happened. ”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Charlotte Armstrong   clarmstr@ucsd.eduThe customer base at The Art of Espresso is loyal, and Belfer is so 
familiar with his dedicated returning customers that he even knows 
some of them by name and many more by their morning and afternoon 
coffee orders. For those whose names he doesn’t know, he practices.
“I can figure out what they drink in the morning, what they drink 
in the afternoon, ” Belfer said.  “I have kind of a weird brain like that. Patty and I both have that ability to recognize somebody and know what 
they’re having. ”
Belfer has seen many changes happen over the years and experienced 
many momentous occasions, all from the shelter of his coffee cart. The 
Old Student Center, now home to the Women’s Center and the LGBT Resource Center, wasn’t even built when The Art of Espresso first 
planted its roots on campus.
“There have been so many ups and downs since we’ve been here, ” 
Belfer said. “There are people who met here and ended up getting 
married. For both Obama victories, I was here. We’ve lived through some construction periods. I was here serving coffee when 9/11 
happened. ”
The Art of Espresso has been successfully thriving at UCSD for 
years, and it just celebrated its 19th anniversary. When asked if he 
would ever consider expanding his business, even to just another 
coffee cart on campus, Belfer paused. He responded that he would be interested if the shop were to be in an indoor location, but otherwise it 
would be tricky. There are some challenges to running a labor-intensive outdoor coffee kiosk. Despite generally sunny San Diego weather, there 
have been some cold and rainy days where he and his staff haven’t 
enjoyed serving coffee.
“People have asked us over the years about opening another 
location, ” Belfer said.  “I’m not sure that’s what we want as a business 
model. It seems like everyone else’s business model, but those shops 
always seem to come and go. Part of our success is that there’s always an 
owner here, so that the pride and ownership comes through. We have this longevity because there’s always an owner present. ”
Instead, Belfer said, The Art of Espresso would like to keep doing 
what it’s doing: serving coffee to its loyal customers, welcoming new ones, and bolstering UCSD’s student community, one cup of coffee at a time. 
“It’s always encouraging when the campus tours roll through here, 
and I can hear the guides talking about our reputation as a coffee shop 
on campus and a cool place to hang out, ” Belfer said.  “We’ve always felt 
like if we ran our company with integrity and executed what we wanted to create for the campus — a sticky spot for people to hang out — that it would work, ” Belfer said. “So far, so good. ”▶ COFFEE CART , from page 6
@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
fac eb o o k8                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
More reasons to choose the best care.
More doctors. More locations.
We’re expanding our network of primary, urgent, and express care  
locations throughout San Diego. So with more access to the top minds in medicine, 
the smartest choice in health care is becoming the most convenient one. Look for 
our newest location, now open in Rancho Bernardo. For more details about the 
world-class care happening right in your backyard, visit GetBetterCareNow.com.A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Teenage witch Sabrina Spellman returns on the air, enchanting audiences with a new take of blood-curdling adventures.
Most ‘90s kids remember a certain 
quippy teen-witch accompanied by her sardonic black cat and two zany 
aunts from the sitcom, “Sabrina the Teenage Witch. ” Sabrina Spellman’s origin dates further back, having first appeared in the Archie comics and a popular ‘70s cartoon that spellbound 
viewers. This time around, she returns to the 
screen with a dark, new spin on her occult story. Released on Netflix during the spooky Halloween season, “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” readapts the previous lighthearted 
narrative into a mature, macabre horror, rife 
with devil worshipping, dark baptisms, demon possessions, and — most frightening of all — high school barbarity. 
Far different from the old series’s wacky 
endeavors, this new show is less optimistic and more solemn as Sabrina Spellman (Kiernan Shipka) battles a Catch-22 situation, where she is forced to choose between her half-witch 
and half-human identity. Upon turning 16, all 
witches and warlocks must partake in a “dark baptism” wherein they sign their body and soul away to the Dark Lord in promise for 
immortality and a grandiose enhancement of 
their magic. After the ritual, they will also be 
whisked away to the Academy of Unseen Arts 
(essentially a more Satanic Hogwarts) where they will learn magic and permanently pledge their livelihoods to him. Sabrina becomes doubtful of whether she should follow the tradition of the coven or remain in the mortal 
world where a majority of her friends reside. As 
her outright rebellion becomes a threat to the cultish Church of Night and even Satan himself, Sabrina simultaneously wrestles with family 
expectations and the evil forces that desperately 
want to oppress her. She begins to question the many binaries of her life, such as her dual witch-mortal nature, the path of dark versus light, and its respective meaning of power or free will.
The show isn’t all paranormal and devilish, 
though, as it also attempts to tackle real issues including belief systems and feminism. Sabrina’s resistance to her ancestry’s creed of 
devil worship broadly speaks to finding an 
independent faith instead of blindly following one that others and even close family — like her aunts Hilda (Lucy Davis) and Zelda (Miranda Otto) — try to indoctrinate her into. Not 
only does the young witch fight against her 
heritage’s belief system, but she also fights against the patriarchy of her high school, which is teeming with misogynistic jocks and 
run by a sexist principal. However, there are 
some campy, tongue-in-cheek moments that 
overtly push the idea of how toxic this male-
dominated society is. These moments aren’t usually seamless; instead, it feels as if they’re patronizing  the audience and intentionally teaching them something they already know. Y et, the show delivers its message loud and clear 
about the importance of autonomy and female 
empowerment.
As previously mentioned, this Netflix series 
isn’t as blithe, but it does sustain some degree 
of dark comedy that leaves a curled lip upon 
viewers. The ‘90s sitcom, “Sabrina the Teenage Witch, ” had an iconic form of comic relief: Salem, a former warlock who tried to dictate the world but became imprisoned within a cat’s 
body. Wry and snarky, Salem was endowed as 
a fan-favorite character, so people were upset upon learning that this modern version of the beloved feline couldn’t talk. It feels like a 
missed opportunity, but the show supplants his 
golden one-liners with other characters’ twisted jokes about death, casual murders, and deviated values. So, there are at least sinisterly humorous moments for audiences nostalgically craving 
the goofy tones of the prior series.
Sharing the same creator as “Riverdale, ” 
“Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” has been said 
to resemble similarly stylized visuals. The show 
also has a unique Gothic aesthetic that elicits 
an eerie atmosphere, as if to pay homage to 
classic horror, melodramatic films. The witches’ 
home is creepily antique — stashed with ritzy knick-knacks and festooned with Victorian-esque art, making the audience feel like they’ve been transported centuries back. Despite this, the show also includes heavy ‘60s and ‘80s 
references to music and culture. With all these 
layers of juxtaposing historical elements, it’s really ambiguous on which year it is. The setting feels like a timeless and nebulous space, but this 
only enriches its aura of mystery. The aunts 
wear some lacy and opulent confection, but Sabrina’s costume stands out as her character dons a splash of crimson to her every attire. Her accented red especially pops out in any misty, 
grey backdrop, making the cinematography 
beautifully well-crafted and appealing. Natural backdrops, like the mossy forest, add to the ethereal and spectral ambience of the series’s 
environment. 
Although the reboot completely contrasts its 
predecessor, “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina” 
bewitches viewers with its grisly, sensible tone and visually-stimulating setting. The audience is 
left transfixed by a supernatural world, one that 
is beckoning to be discovered with more grim and ominous adventures. With deeper concepts of freedom and power, the show becomes more 
intriguing as we follow Sabrina Spellman’s 
bumpy journey into both womanhood and 
witch-hood.
—  Ashley  chen
Senior Staff Writer
TV   REVIEW
Chilling Adventures of Sabrina
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Created by   Roberto Aguirre-Saccassa
Starring  Kiernan Shipka, Ross Lynch, Lucy Davis, Chance Perdomo
Release Date  October 26, 2018
Rating  TV-14CB+
After countless collaborations with artists such as Normani, Billie Eilish, and Marshmello, 
Khalid has finally released a seven-track EP , which comes after the success of his debut album, “ American Teen. ” Its hit single “Location” brought Khalid fame and recognition 
and has remained a regular spin on Spotify playlists since 2016 until now. The release of “Suncity” marked the rhythm and blues singer’s next shot at becoming a household name. However, success might have to wait until his next album.
Most of “Suncity” blurs together, a sign that each song sounds virtually the same. This is 
unlike the variety found in “ American Teen. ” Khalid’s easygoing tone, while soulful at times, rarely fluctuates over the course of the album and runs the risk of sounding flat and static. The exception is the title track “Suncity, ” where Khalid rides over an easy, Latin-pop beat with Empress Of. It’s a bouncy, refreshing track in an otherwise somber EP , where Khalid showcases his spectacular ability to play with featured artists and switch off lyrics. While he remains an incredible add-on to any track 
and collaborator, he continues to struggle when it comes to leading a song on his own. 
On “Suncity, ” most of the tracks hold a basic, mid-tempo beat. While this makes for easy listening, 
especially as background music, nothing about it is particularly memorable. “Suncity” doesn’t hold 
the same narrative weight as its predecessor, “ American Teen. ” Curiously enough, despite the EP’s vaguely angsty lyrics, it still remains lighthearted for a typical R&B album.Khalid joins the ranks of Frank Ocean and SZA by including the voicemail “Salem’s Interlude. ” 
However, unlike Ocean and SZA, the track is strangely positive and reassuring, ending with the line “ And I’m just happy / I can’t complain about anything. ” While the interlude doesn’t add anything of 
substance to “Suncity” and could have been left out of the EP , it does reveal something about Khalid, 
or rather, who Khalid is trying to be as an artist. Relatability, positivity, and general geniality seem to characterize the singer both as a person and a musician.
Although “Suncity” is a bit lukewarm, its tracks like the fluid, pop-inflected “Motion” and 
“Suncity” reveal a glimpse into what the 20-year-old could accomplish in the future. Nonetheless, it was also necessary in keeping up Khalid’s presence beyond his constant collaborations and previously released singles. Khalid is well-liked by the general public and remains as one of the most wholesome and uncontroversial current artists. 
“Suncity” isn’t particularly memorable, but it’s enough to tide listeners over until the next Khalid 
album. It’s a matter of Khalid having another hit like “Location” that will determine whether he becomes the newest pop-like, R&B artist, or risks the title of a one-hit wonder. 
—  Jahfreen  Alam
A&E Editorial Assistant
suncity
by  khalid
Release Date  Oct. 20th, 2018
The “ American Teen” singer pays homage to his hometown of El Paso, forever grateful to the city of the 9-1-5.ALBUM   REVIEW
B-
10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10  
FREE ADMISSION  WITH COLLEGE ID
♦   Live DJs in the Red Bull College Area 
♦   Cornhole, Giant Jenga and more games
♦  College football
♦   Discounted food & beverage specialsReggae meets school spirit in one crazy day of music 
and fun. It all kicks off with College Day at the Races - an epic party just for San Diego’s university crowd. Then after the races, our legendary Reggae Festival is back with the positive vibes of Pepper. And it’s all free with track admission for ages 18 and up. Presented by Coors Light. Visit DelMarRacing.com for tickets. featuring Pepper
Concert is ages 18 and up. Pre-paid tickets, complimentary tickets and season passes will not be accepted for admission after the last race.On Friday, Oct. 26, The Loft welcomed 
The Marías to UC San Diego, where an eager crowd awaited. The Marías are 
musicians on the rise in Los Angeles, founded in 2016 by María and Josh Conway when he fell in love with her voice. The band is comprised of five members: María (lead vocalist and guitarist), Josh 
Conway (producer, drummer vocalist), Carter 
Lee (bass player and vocalist), Jesse Perlman (lead guitarist and vocalist), and Edward James (keyboardist and vocalist). Before the show, there were about six to 10 clusters of people spread 
throughout the venue. Upperclassmen and locals 
were at the bar, while the trendy, younger crowds secured their spots near the stage. I noticed a string of couples in the seating area. People were 
settling into the Friday night mood before the 
music kicked off.
Up-and-coming musician and Tijuana native 
Vanessa Zamora opened the show with a new wave sound from her album “Tornaluna, ” which 
was released on Oct. 5. Each member of the band 
brought passion to the stage, evident by their headbanging and dancing. They were enjoying the performance just as much as the audience. Zamora and her bandmates were an energetic flow of sound that perked the audience right 
up while simultaneously cultivating a relaxing 
environment.
The Marías entered the stage with all the grace 
and sophistication exhibited in their music. By 
the end of their first song, “Cariño, ” there was not 
a single person whose leg wasn’t bouncing and whose head wasn’t bopping. The five members reconcile their various music tastes in a medley of Latin-inspired jazz, dream pop, funk, and 
psychedelic notes that blend perfectly together. 
They played songs from their “Superclean, Vol. I” EP , as well as their “Superclean, Vol. II” EP .
From the jazzy “Cariño” to the funky “I Like 
It, ” The Marías demonstrated cascading vocals and sensual lyricism. The Marías delivered a “super clean” performance. They were as good, if not better, during their live performance than on recordings. The band thoroughly demonstrated 
its talent across the board: From the trumpet 
to the vocals, each member of The Marías was hitting each note just right. The Marías’ harmonies were able to create an atmosphere that immersed the audience in a fantastical dream. The timeless quality of The Marías is 
the seamlessness of their sound. Though we 
were listening to them in a concert setting, you can listen to The Marías at virtually any time: hanging out by the pool while eating watermelon 
slices, dancing at a party, and even when you’re 
studying for your midterms. 
The Marías took command of the room with 
their melodies, compelling everyone to indulge in the music. Their music utilizes soft tones 
that both soothe and energize the audience. 
Whether it was slow swaying, graceful twirls, or even just a tapping foot, everyone was dancing in their own way. As I looked around the room 
at the audience, I saw people not only dancing, 
but actually laughing in glee; some were even shouting eager praise at the band. All of the faces in the room were smiling. 
When María asked, “ Alguien aquí habla 
Español?” (“Does anyone here speak Spanish?”), a sprinkling of hands flew up in the air, including mine. Those who understood the question knew it was directed toward them. It was a nice moment to take pride in knowing multiple languages in a country that demands we speak 
only English. The Marías offer representation 
for Spanish speakers. The band writes music in both English and Spanish, uniting the languages through its modern sound. The Latinx students 
in the crowd were able to connect with the band 
members, specifically the lead singer María, who is of Puerto Rican descent, by yelling out a message in Spanish, a language only a few could understand.  
Despite the mellow ambience of their music, 
The Marías were able to compel the crowd into an entranced state of enthusiasm. Though we all wished the show would last forever, their 
set came to an end after their song “Déjate 
Llevar, ” which means “to let yourself go. ” My only complaint is that they did not play another song when the crowd chanted for “One! More! Song!”
—  lorena  espinoza
Senior Staff WriterLos Angeles psychedelic-soul band, The Marías, dazzled the audience at The Loft on Friday night. With velvety vocals and subtly sultry auras, The 
Marías dazzled and entranced the crowd before them. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  The Loft at UC San Diego
Concert Date    October 26, 2018The Marias at The Loft at UCSDPHOTO COURTESY OF REMEZCLA.COM
CALIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
This summer, I attended a UC San Diego 
Global Seminars program in Bangkok, Thailand 
for five weeks. Though the UCSD Study Abroad 
Office and International Study Abroad Program provided numerous resources and well-prepared 
me, a few days before my flight, I was suddenly 
afraid of the whole experience and worried about 
any possible issues: money exchange, roommate disagreements, paperwork, or figuring my way around the country. Since I did not want my 
mom to be worried, and I had already paid for 
the fees, I pretended that I was excited for the program even though I felt sad to leave. 
My first impression of Thailand was not 
great — the moment I landed in Suvarnabhumi 
Airport at 11 p.m., I immediately felt a rush 
of humid heat engulfing me. I then stayed an extra three hours at the airport waiting for another classmate when I was already deprived 
of good-quality sleep. Heading to our living 
accommodation, located in Nana, I was initially shocked to see the lively nightlife and the amount of sex workers walking around the streets. However, I did not care much; I just 
wanted to sleep. I thought I had set myself up for 
disappointment and boy, was I wrong. 
The two classes in the program were 
anthropology courses about sex, gender, 
and HIV prevalence in Southeast Asia. Due 
to the theme of the courses, my class and I visited several health clinics aimed to serve the LGBTQ+ community. One of my most unforgettable moments was my visit to Wat Phra 
Baht Nam Phu, also known as AIDS Temple, 
where I spoke to several HIV or AIDS patients and learned about their experiences —- some patients voluntarily entered the temple to escape 
society’s stigma of contracting HIV while others 
are abandoned by their families from a young age. The lectures and conversations I had were invaluable and gave me another perspective after seeing the struggles of people living under 
constant scrutiny. I am extremely grateful for 
Dr. Dredge Kang and Resident Director Aaron Clark who both actively took care of the class by continuously introducing and teaching us the 
cultures and norms of Thailand; I truly believe 
they contributed to how happy I was with my study abroad trip. 
Several friends and I went to Chiang Mai for 
a few days and that was definitely the highlight of my Thailand trip. The mini vacation began with miscommunication, leading my group and I to enter the wrong taxi which ended with us arguing 
with the taxi driver about the fare. The next day, I 
fell ill but still decided to go jungle trekking. The jungle trekking experience left me with over 40 mosquito bites, arms full of hives, and a strong sense of feeling that my life would end that day. Nevertheless, I visited a themed Elephant Sanctuary and got to pet a couple of elephants! 
Temples (“Wat”) are well known throughout Thailand, and my favorite is Wat Phra That Doi 
Suthep for the stunning overview of Chiang Mai. 
Compared to Bangkok, Chiang Mai is vastly 
different in terms of culture, weather and food. A common rickshaw transportation known as “tuk tuk” in Bangkok, was nowhere to be seen 
in Chiang Mai, and the nightlife is not as lively. 
However, I was glad I was able to take a break from the busy, populated Bangkok.
Classmates-turned friends created a big 
difference for how I felt toward the program. 
Without my friends, I would’ve never enjoyed 
the other half of Thailand. Because we were all in a similar situation where none of us speak Thai, we often hung out to get food before or 
after class. I am very fortunate to have gotten to 
know most of my classmates and to have built strong friendships. By the end of the program, several of us missed American foods like pizza and burgers, so there were many night visits to 
McDonald’s and KFC. We even tried Mexican 
cuisine in Thailand. It was not the best, but I valued the conversations and experiences with my friends over the quality of the food we ate. 
Food, almost everyone’s favorite topic, cannot 
be left unsaid. My favorite had to be the vast amount of colorful fruits offered: mangosteen, rambutan, longan, and pomelo to name a few. Meals in Thailand are generally affordable — $1 
to $3 landed me an enormous plate of khao pad 
gai (chicken fried rice), pak boong (morning glory, a spinach-like vegetable), or pad thai. What surprised me is that most restaurants do 
not offer complimentary water, and I had to 
pay a small amount for a bottle. Street foods are common and often clean and delicious; my dearest meal came from a convenient hot and steaming noodle stall, located in the heart of a 
red light district. I visited so often that a week 
before I left, the owner of the stall recognized my face and usual order.
Thailand gave me a tremendous number of 
memories that I will cherish for a lifetime. All the friendships I made, cultures I encountered, material I learned, and food I ate made me realize that there are many other place in this 
world I have yet to visit. Hopefully, my passport 
is ready for more stamps and visa stickers for my upcoming journeys!
UCSD Thailand Global Seminar started a 
GoFundMe campaign for Wat Phra Baht Nam Phu’s patients. If you would like to donate, please visit www.gofundme.com/fulfill-nee039s-dream-to-help-othersStudying Abroad in Thailand
by Rebecca Tsang // Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF REBECCA TSANG
PHOTO COURTESY OF REBECCA TSANG
Before I arrived at UC San Diego, I knew 
classes were going to be huge. Still, as a first year, 
I was shocked at how the 200- to 300-person 
lectures swallowed up your name and identity 
and spat it out at the door. In my two years at this school, I haven’t interacted personally with many of my professors, who identify me simply by my ID number, and I don’t talk to people in my class 
unless we’re already friends. While anonymity 
is sometimes great and I appreciate sitting in the back of Price Center Theater when I’m too tired to focus, I found myself craving the small settings of high school. I missed recognizing 
everyone in my class and actually knowing my 
teachers past the first-day-of-class introduction. I missed environments that encouraged speaking to one another and promoted discussion about 
the topics at hand. 
This longing drew me to University College 
Maastricht, the university I’m currently studying 
abroad at and one that offers a different teaching style and class structure. Here, classes usually 
meet three times per week: once for lecture and 
twice for tutorials, the latter of which are similar to UCSD discussions — only with a lot more discussion. My courses are a lot smaller than at UCSD, too; my largest lecture has consisted of around only 50 students, and tutorial groups are usually eight to 12 students strong. 
Tutorials, which are divided into pre-
discussion and post-discussion, are guided by a method called problem-based learning, or PBL. Pre-discussions consist of reading a text, constructing a problem statement, brainstorming 
ideas, and creating “learning goals, ” which are 
formulated as sub-questions. Then, students only do the assigned readings that will help them answer said learning goals. At the next tutorial, post-discussion takes place, where the students 
share their findings from the reading as well as 
their own insights. 
If that’s a bit hard to follow, hopefully, an 
example will help. My first problem statement for 
my “Pop Songs and Poetry” class was this: “How 
does poetry express life?” From that, we came up with learning goals like “How do writers avoid cliches and bring originality to their art?” or “How do writers express their personal experiences 
through their works?” These questions guided 
our understanding of the readings and the post-discussion.
The idea behind PBL is that students are able to determine what they want to learn and what they want to get out of the course. School becomes less about a teacher lecturing and 
students memorizing information, but more 
about interaction, friendly debate, applications to real life, and learning for the sake of learning.  
PBL doesn’t work as well for all subjects — 
there’s only so much you can do with calculus or 
computer science, but one can immediately see 
the benefits for the humanities, the arts, the social sciences, or the sciences. 
This was immediately apparent to me in my 
first tutorial for my “Living In A Technological 
Culture” class. After a round of introductions, 
our tutor presented us with the question “What is technology?” and the other students immediately jumped into a discussion by volunteering ideas, 
presenting points, agreeing, and disagreeing. 
As someone who has been educated in the “traditional” style for my whole college career, I was stunned at their animation and willingness to speak. It was a version of learning I was 
unaccustomed to but one that I immediately saw 
the benefits of. It allows me to engage with my required readings in a new way and seek help through clarification or extension of knowledge. I’m more confident with public speaking and have familiarized myself with accepting criticism. 
I’m not arguing for the adoption of PBL in all 
schools, but I do feel like many could use some of the PBL mentality: curiosity, inquisition, and passion. So often I see UCSD students, myself included, dragging their feet to class, like school is something we have to do, not something we want 
to do. It’s easy to get caught up in assignments and 
papers and midterms week after week, quarter after quarter, and we begin to lose sight of the bigger picture. For me, PBL was a reawakening of why I love learning and why I wanted to pursue 
higher education in the first place. I’m grateful 
to University College Maastricht for reminding me that education starts with conversation and is not punctuated solely by a grade, but by the 
satisfaction in knowing a bit more about the 
world. 
--Avontuur met Annika, which translates to 
Adventure with Annika, is a travel journal of 
my experiences in Europe during my semester 
abroad at University College Maastricht in the Netherlands. Follow me at @annikdotes on Instagram for more photos and stories!
Avontuur Met Annika: For The Love of Learning 
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
You’re in the middle of studying for 
midterms and all of a sudden, you feel it. The 
uncomfortable itching at the back of your 
throat can only indicate one thing: You’re getting sick. Y ou try to stop it by chugging 
orange juice, Airborne, and Emergen-C, yet 
nothing helps the inevitable sickness that is about to plague you. Perhaps it was meant 
to be, but more likely, being stressed, hardly 
sleeping, and being exposed to thousands of young adults with thousands of germs may 
have been the culprit.
This is exactly what happened to me last 
week. My days were filled with cough drops, tissues, and NyQuil. Every time I had a 
spare moment, I would trudge back and forth between Sunshine Market for orange juice 
and hot tea from Audrey’s Café. In between 
this torturous running around, I was forced to cram in midterm studying and overwhelming 
amounts of homework. Yet, there was one 
thing I craved more than anything else in the world: soup. What better place to serve soup 
than in Price Center, in the middle of our 
campus?
Now, I understand that one can simply buy 
soup at the local grocery store on their own, which leads me to the question: When was the last time you had good soup at a grocery 
store? It’s probably been a long time because 
soup is best served in a restaurant format. Sure, you can have a decent bowl of soup 
from the grocery store, and you can always buy microwaveable soups and noodles, but 
the feeling isn’t the same. Grocery store soups 
heated up in a dingy microwave fall short of 
having a warm bowl of soup prepared just for you.
You may argue that I could have just walked 
into a grocery store, purchased ingredients for soup for much cheaper, and made soup for 
myself. There are a few holes in this theory, 
such as the fact that no one wants to slave over a giant pot when all you want to do is curl up 
in bed to sneeze your heart away. Also, soup 
is one of the most difficult culinary challenges to nail. It seems that moms are the only ones 
to capture the true art form of a good bowl of 
chicken noodle soup. Maybe when I’m older and wiser, with a 401(k) and extra time on my 
hands, I can make my own soups. For now, 
I am a busy college student that can barely watch one episode on Netflix without falling 
behind in three classes.
There are soups in most dining halls, 
however, not all UC San Diego students have Dining Dollars. Even for students with Dining 
Dollars living on campus, the soups offered in dining halls are not always appetizing and 
only have a small selection to choose from. 
Everyone has different soup preferences, so why not let the people choose? Imagine being 
sick and having chicken noodle soup, clam 
chowder, or minestrone all available for you to choose from? It’s the least UCSD can do.
There may be times when we crave other foods in addition to soup. Why not also explore 
cold soups, or even better, salads? Soup and 
salads are not rare foods to be served together, and there are a whole chain of restaurants 
serving these foods, including but not limited 
to Panera Bread and Souplantation. Why not have a soup and salad place in Price Center? 
It’s the most convenient place on campus, and 
it gets the most foot traffic, which means a high chance of success for a soup and salad 
place.
UCSD students deserve the possibility of 
soup. We are overworked and tired and often this leads  to weakened immune systems 
on campus. High stress can contribute to stomach pains and other health discomforts. With our busy schedules, who has time to go to the grocery store in the middle of midterms, much less prepare a large batch of 
soup for yourself? We should have the option 
of a hearty meal to help us with sickness pains or growing pains in general. When we’re 
so far away from our families, we deserve 
to have a few mini reminders of home, and nothing screams home more than a big bowl 
of chicken noodle soup on a cold school day. 
So, this is my proposal. I’ll be waiting with a giant spoon in one hand and my debit card in 
the other, and I’m sure many other students 
will be too.P etition For Soup
by Samirah Martinez // Staff Writer
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS
DAVID ROUSSVE/REALITYTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 5 - NOV 11
2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org1:30pm
NAVIGATING LEGAL ISSUES FOR 
STARTUPS & ENTREPRENEURS - 
THE BASEMENT (MANDEVILLE B202)
What is the role of law in entrepreneurship? How 
do you form and organize a startup while also protecting your idea or invention? What are the 
legal issues that an entrepreneur or startup 
should consider in formation, fundraising, and 
growth? Contact: thebasement@ucsd.edu
4pm
TALK BY DR THOMAS IRVINE FROM 
THE UNIVERSITY OF 
SOUTHAMPTON - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER, ROOM 231
In my forthcoming book Listening to China: Sound 
and the Sino-Western Encounter, 1770-1839(U. of Chicago Press) I trace how Westerners around 1800 used encounters with Chinese soundworlds to refashion their own musical identities. Contact: mus-publicity@cloud.ucsd.edu 
4:30pm
CARE PEER EDUCATION PROGRAM 
INFORMATION SESSION - STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER 554A
CARE at SARC is accepting applications for 
students who are interested in volunteering as CARE peer educators for the remainder of the 
2018-2019 academic year. The mission of the 
CARE Peer Education Program is to raise 
awareness throughout the UC San Diego community about sexual assault, relationship violence, and stalking. CARE Peer Educators will assist with outreach through tabling and events, while also promoting activities and attitudes that will contribute to ending violence.  Contact: careinfo@ucsd.edu 858-534-5793
6pm
THANKSGIVING BREAK ACTIVITIES 
FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS - 
ASANTE CLASSROOM 123AD - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Are you an international student with no plans for 
thanksgiving? Come learn about the many trips and activities you can do over the break! We will have FREE thanksgiving food and prizes! Contact: muiroutreach@ucsd.edu
5pm
AN AMERICAN INTERNEE IN 
WAR -TORN EUROPE WITH LOU DE 
BEER - GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
The son of American parents, Lodewyk Lou de 
Beer was born in Amsterdam in 1931. When the U.S. joined the war, the de Beers were declared enemy aliens and subjected to a lengthy odyssey through concentration and internment camps. His journey adds an important and generally overlooked angle to the history of WWII in Europe. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS & 
INTERTRIBAL RESOURCE PRESENT: 
WONDER WOMAN - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Celebrate Native American Heritage Month: Join 
us for a special presentation of: Warner Bros. 2017 Wonder Woman featuring Native American actor, Eugene Brave Rock. You're invited to stay for a special presentation and Q&A with Mr. Brave Rock after the screening! Mr. Brave Rock will be the keynote speaker at the UCSD Native American Heritage Month Luncheon on 11/9. Get your tickets at: nahm@ucsd.eduTUE11.06
THU11.08MON11.05
11am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays are stressful (and also sometimes a 
drag), start your week right with some FREE 
coffee, tea and snacks! Come destress with 
University Centers EVERY MONDAY this fall 
quarter! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY: QUICK 
MINESTRONE SOUP - THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo Quick Minestrone 
Soup, and enjoy some FREE samples! Hosted by 
Christine McNamara, an SHS registered 
dietitian, all materials and ingredients will be 
provided. Seating is based on first come, first 
serve.Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
7pm
KIRSTEN ASHLEY WIEST, 
SELF -SUPPORT - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER RECITAL HALL
Award-winning coloratura soprano Kristen 
Ashley Wiest is firmly committed to the 
continuous evolution of classical vocal music. 
Her bright, dazzling vocal technique (San Diego 
Story) has captured the attention of composers 
worldwide, resulting in numerous world premiere 
performances including works by James Erber 
(UK), Veronika Krausas (CA/US), Rand Steiger 
(US), Tina Tallon (US), Jack Van Zandt (US), and 
Annie Hsieh (AU). among many others.
7pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music 
collaboration between four musicians with 
diverse backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a unique 
project matching masterpieces of the chamber 
music repertoire with a group of world-class 
instrumentalists who happen to call San Diego 
home. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS DAVID 
ROUSSVE/REALITY - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM  
Choreographed, written, and directed by 
David Roussve, "Halfway to Dawn" is an evening-length work weaving dance, music, sound, video, and text to uncover the deeper truths of African American, gay jazz composer Billy Strayhorns life (1915-67) while also creating a dialogue on urgent social issues of our own time. The work is danced to a score of Strayhorn and Duke Ellington songs, from raise-the-roof jazz anthems to emotion-laden ballads. "Halfway to Dawn" intersects fact, conjecture, comment, abstraction, and fantasy to create an abstract portrait of Ellingtons most important, though largely unknown, collaborator. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduFRI11.09WED11.07MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
10am
OASIS AT THE ZONE - THE ZONE
Stop by The Zone for free tutoring provided by OASIS. Subjects offered are Math and Chemistry. Study supplies provided. Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
RECREATION PRESENTS: TRIVIA 
NIGHTS AT HOPS & SALT - HOPS & SALT AT HOME PLATE 
Come flex your trivia knowledge with a small 
group, or on your own, every Wednesday night at Hops & Salt. Enjoy food and drink specials while attempting to outwit your friends, colleagues, faculty, and staff. Prizes go to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place! Contact: cgriebenow@ucsd.edu
6pm
CARRIE MAE WEEMS GUEST 
LECTURE - DISTINGUISHED ALUM MFA 1984 - PC THEATER
Considered one of the most influential 
contemporary American artists, Carrie Mae Weems has investigated family relationships, cultural identity, sexism, class, political systems, and the consequences of power. Determined as ever to enter the picture both literally and metaphorically Weems has sustained an on-going dialogue within contemporary discourse for over thirty years. During this time, Carrie Mae Weems has developed a complex body of art employing photographs, text, fabric, audio, digital images, installation, and video. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 ALECK KARIS, PIANO - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Aleck Karis has performed recitals, chamber 
music, and concertos across the Americas, Europe and in China. As the pianist of the new music ensemble Speculum Musicae he has participated in over a hundred premieres and performed at major American and European festivals. His appearances with orchestra have ranged from concertos by Mozart, Beethoven and Chopin to those of Stravinsky, Messiaen and Carter. His five solo discs on Bridge Records include Aleck Karis performs Schumann, Carter, Chopin; Aleck Karis: Mozart Recital; Stravinsky: Music for Piano 1911-1942; John Cage: Sonatas and Interludes; and Karis Plays Webern, Wolpe & Feldman. His two discs on Romeo Records are Piano Music of Philip Glass and Late Piano Music of Frederic Chopin. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu 
7pm
CARRIE ME WEEMS GUEST 
LECTURE - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Distinguished Alumna, MFA 1984, Carrie Mae 
Weems is a celebrated artist known for exploring issues of race, gender, class and how the present can be understood through history and identity. Named a MacArthur Fellow in 2013, Weems continues to engage local communities through art and activism. Considered one of the most influential contemporary American artists, Carrie Mae Weems has investigated family relationships, cultural identity, sexism, class, political systems, and the consequences of power. Determined as ever to enter the pictureboth literally and metaphoricallyWeems has sustained an on-going dialogue within contemporary discourse for over thirty years. During this time, Carrie Mae Weems has developed a complex body of art employing photographs, text, fabric, audio, digital images, installation, and video. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
COMPUTER WORDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Fort Collins campus, for short
4. They may kiss11. Detoxification place
14. Paddle relative
15. Thus far
16. Lettuce variety a.k.a. romaine17. How scissors beats paper in the real 
world?
20. She baked pies in Mayberry
21. Bening of “Being Julia”
22. “The Path to the Nest of Spiders” 
writer Calvino
23. Gainesville college footballer
24. Make
25. One who openly declares
31. Hilarious person32. Ending for Canton33. Fix some potholes
34. Microscope part
35. How the paper might beat some 
rock?
37. “Song of the South” term
40. “Beauty School Dropout” musical41. Garlic, in Guadalajara44. First name in rationalism45. Breadwinner46. Pickup hangout47. “Get your ___ over here!”49. Jock, J.R. or Bobby51. They often have whipped cream on 
their nuts
54. She goes mad in “Hamlet”56. The only imaginable way for rock to 
beat scissors?
58. Always, in poetry59. Metallic element used in spark plugs60. Former senator Daschle61. Pilot’s heading: abbr.62. “Falling in Place” novelist Ann63. Decade divs.DOWN
 1. Pablo Escobar smuggled it2. Boy scout greetings3. Go
4. It’s bare in a nursery rhyme
5. Relative of 20-across
6. “Reader” on the newsstands7. U.S. force in Vietnam: abbr.8. Cuzco’s civilization
9. Hands-up time?
10. Moved like a pendulum
11. Terrier type12. Bridge type13. Says without knowing 100%
18. Center of a Jim and Tammy Faye 
scandal
19. Pieces of wisdom
26. “Standing on the ___ of Getting It 
On” (Funkadelic album)
27. “Dido and Aeneas, ” for one
28. Straddle the fence
29. Water brand that spells another 
word backwards
30. One of Dewey’s older brothers35. Guiding principles36. What parents say when they get 
back from a trip
37. Horns and such38. Hirer’s stack39. Draw into a trap41. Knack42. He’ll stay after school43. They may be faked48. Title in colonial India50. Hornets don’t play in Charlotte’s52. First-year French student’s verb53. Actor LaBeouf of “Constantine”54. Fail to include55. Spittoon noise57. July hrs. in JerseyCARS
2012 Ford Transit Connect - $11,800. We 
are selling a 2012 Transit Connect Cargo with Advance Trac RSC that has 35K original miles. It runs and drives great.We made many modification to the Ford Transit Connect, but all can be undone. This is the best work van you will ever own and we are selling it for $11800, our best offer. Call 619-757-9565ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 FORD F150 Pickup Truck - $56,880. 
2018 Ford F-150, , SuperCrew, Ford FEVER. 4 Wheel Drive*** Big grins!!! Gassss saverrrr!!! 22 MPG Hwy! Safety equipment includes: ABS, Curtain air -
bags, Passenger Airbag, Daytime run -
ning lights, Dusk sensing headlights... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2011 Toyota Camry SE for sale - $10,084. 
Clean CARFAX. FWD 6-Speed 2.5L I4 SMPI DOHC Recent Arrival! Odometer is 12257 miles below market average! Awards: * JD Power Dependability Study * 2011 KBB.com 10 Best Used Family Cars Under $15,000 ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
HELP WANTED NOW! Learn how to make an extra $400 per week doing surveys as a student. Go to www.collegeoppor -
tunity.club ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
RETAIL/RESET MERCHANDISER PART 
TIME. To all you incredibly talented, chal -
lenge seekers, dare-to dreamers, early rise in the morning go-getters, outside-of-the-box thinkers, experience-driven trendsetters, and creative brainstorming doodlers, we just have four words: We’re looking for you. ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Seeking PT Helper to Run Errands :)
Hourly $13.00-15.00/hour, I have major injuries, and am profoundly fatigued. I am hence seeking steady assistance with:* Grocery shopping;* Picking up prescriptions;* Driving me to appoint -
ments;* Light housekeeping;* Meal prep;* Making some phone calls on my behalf;* Organizational tasks;* Other tasks needed on other days.* Most shifts are 4-8 hours, flexible schedule. Prefer afternoon, evenings, and some week -
ends.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
TRAVEL
Rome to Lisbon on a Shoestring - $2599. Thought Mediterranean Europe was out of your reach? Think again. Take two weeks to voyage through France, Italy, Monaco, Spain, and Portugal, hitting up tons of major highlights (the French Riviera, Rome, Cinque Terre, Lisbon, and Madrid among them) for way less than youХd think Р meaning more cash to 
spend on delicious tapas and dancing at nightclubs. And if you Хre all worn 
out from the party scene, recharge your batteries on exotic beaches and get a taste of EuropeХs high culture and slow-paced life. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Sapporo Snow Festival and Japan Winter 
Highlights. - $5,099. This 13-day trip joins together two Japan winter tours to create one unforgettable experience that covers some of the major winter events this country has to offer. From the famous onsen hot springs throughout Japan that make the country so inviting in winter, to the free time to discover new and historical districts in Tokyo and Kyoto, to the Sapporo Snow Festival and the Otaru Light Festival in Hokkaido, this tour is the best answer for anyone looking for a different sort of adventure. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Paracas & Nazca Lines Independent 
Adventure - $399 Discover the enigmatic Nazca Lines. The 1,000-year-old figures etched into the desert floor are visible in their entirety from the air. Board the included flight to marvel at the desert landscape and witness incredible styl -
ized figures, including a monkey and a hummingbird. ucsdguardian.org/classi-fieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
15 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
TBD
TBDvs Simon Fraserat Trojan Diving Invitationalvs Simon FraserUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Soccer
M Soccer
W Basketball
Swim & Dive 
BasketballTBATBA
4PM
All Day
7:30PM11/811/911/911/911/9
LA JOLLA, Calif.— This week 
kicked o ff the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Tournament, 
where the UC San Diego women’s soccer team faced o ff against the 
best of their conference. Seeded No. 1  in the tournament, the Tritons had secured themselves a first-round 
bye, automatically advancing to the semifinals. In the semi finals, UCSD 
found itself squaring o ff against the San 
Francisco State University Gators, who had eked out a win against California State University, Los Angeles, beating 
them 3–2 in penalty kicks. In their first 
showdown against SFSU, the Tritons 
won a close game, 1–0. In their second encounter, the Tritons stomped on the Gators, winning the game 5–0.
The Tritons scored their first goal 
20 minutes in. Senior forward Mary Reilly hit a low cross from the right into the nearby netting from close range. Not soon a fter, UCSD got its 
second goal: a header by redshirt-junior mid fielder Natalie Saddic o ff 
a right-sided corner kick. From then on, the Tritons steamrolled the Gators. UCSD tacked on 3 more points in the second half. 
UCSD had several standouts on 
offense. Senior forwards Megumi 
Barber and Reilly led the team in shots, combining for 7 shots, 6 of which were on goal. Sophomore mid fielder Maddy 
Samilo recorded a team-high 2 assists. Reilly, freshman defender Ashlynn Kolarik, and senior mid fielder Summer 
Bales all got 1 assist and 1 goal.
Starting redshirt junior goalkeeper 
Angelica Ramos played the majority of the game, only being substituted out in the final 10 minutes. Though 
Ramos’s workload this game was not particularly heavy (the Gators were limited to only 2 shots, none of which were on goal), it is a good sign for the Tritons that Ramos was able to suit up and play this week. Two weeks prior, in the game against CSULA, Ramos suffered a serious eye injury. It bodes 
well for the Tritons that their starting goalkeeper will be healthy and ready as they begin their playo ff run.
UCSD advances to the final round 
of the CCAA Tournament, where they will face o ff against the No. 6-ranked 
Sonoma State University Seawolves. The Seawolves upset No. 2 ranked 
California State University, Chico in a close 1–1 game and eventually won 3–1 on penalty kicks. The last time the 
Tritons encountered the Seawolves, UCSD beat them 2–1. The Tritons 
hope to repeat their performance against Sonoma State and clinch a conference championship.PHOTO COURTESY O F DERRICK TUSKAN
PHOTO COURTESY O F DERRICK TUSKANBY Wesley Xiao
staff Writer
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduUCSD Soccer Dominates 
Tournament Semifinals
The Tritons edge out the Gators 1–0 in Game 1 and dominate Game 2 5–0.Tritons Sweep the Weekend And Are 
Crowned WWPA 
Co-Champions
UCSD clinches No. 1 seed in upcoming tournament.
LA JOLLA, Calif.— The UC San 
Diego men’s water polo team traveled 
north this weekend to wrap up the 2018 regular season campaign with contests against No. 14 Santa Clara 
University and No. 9 UC Davis.
Game 1: No. 10 UCSD @ No. 14 Santa 
Clara
UC San Diego walked away with its 
third win in a row on Thursday night in 
a 13–8 victory against Santa Clara. The 
Tritons defeated the Broncos before on Oct. 13 with a score of 15–7, allowing them to head into Thursday a fternoon’s 
game with nothing but confidence.
Junior Skyler Munatones held the 
spotlight, recording 3 goals, 2 assists, and 1 steal. The first 2 goals came 
back-to-back in the second quarter as Munatones went on to later complete his hat trick 45 seconds into the third.
Two teammates, sophomore 
Connor Turnbow-Lindenstadt and 
senior Alessandro V alania, followed 
closely behind Munatones on the offense end, scoring 2 goals apiece.
Senior Kevin Asplund tallied 
3 assists and senior Cole Martinez collected 2 assists on top of 1 goal which quickly answered the Broncos’ first goal of the game. The Tritons 
shared the wealth, in which a total of 
eight individuals found the back of the 
net at least once. 
A 5-goal third quarter right out 
of the break put the Tritons ahead 10–6 and provided redshirt junior Jack Turner some comfort in the cage. Turner racked up 14 saves and 1 steal in his 32 minutes and helped keep the Broncos unsuccessful 5–7 times in 
power play opportunities.Game 2: No. 10 UCSD @ No. 9 UC 
Davis
After a tough 11–12 loss against 
the Aggies on Oct. 14 that placed the 
Tritons 10th at the Mountain Paci fic 
Sports Federation Invitational, UC San Diego set out for greatness on Saturday morning.
Greatness did the team find amidst 
a 10–8 triumph. 
A 4-goal and 3-steal day for 
Turnbow-Lindenstadt and a 5-assist day for Munatones placed the Tritons above and beyond. V alania supplied another 2 goals, while redshirt junior Kacper Langiewicz, juniors Noah Carniglia and Cooper Milton, and senior Cole Martinez each provided 1.
The Tritons led for a majority of 
the game and overcame a bumpy 
fourth quarter. A 7–4 lead at hal ftime, 
extended to a 9–4 lead a fter the third. 
However, the Aggies refused to retreat 
and scored four in a row in the final 
four minutes.
A total of 31 exclusions and 
penalties from both sides served for an aggressive matchup. UC Davis outshot the Tritons 29–21 but another 
tremendous performance by Turner 
with 11 saves and 1 steal, brought UCSD out on top.
UCSD improves to an overall 
16–5 and 6–1 in Western W ater Polo Association , clinching the No. 1 seed in the conference tournament just ahead of UC Davis at No. 2. Hosted by Fresno Paci fic University, the WWPA 
tournament will begin on Nov. 16.
In addition, this weekend’s win over 
the Aggies granted the Tritons the title of Co-Champion of the regular season.BY madeline lewis
senior staff Writer
madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
LA JOLLA, Calif.—A fter a 3–2 loss 
to the California State University Chico Wildcats on Oct. 13, UC San Diego women’s volleyball needed to go 5–0 to end the season in order to have a chance 
at making the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association playo ffs. The team 
would have three games at home, and would have to finish the season with 
two on the road. The team won the 
three home games with relative ease, losing only one set before going on the road to play the California State University, Dominguez Hills Toros 
and the California State University, Los 
Angeles Golden Eagles
The Tritons took control from the 
beginning, beating the Toros 3–1, 25–19, 25–18, 19–25, and 25–19 on Friday, Nov. 1. 
In the first set, the Tritons were 
dominant. A fter trailing 4-3 early on, 
they never lost the lead to the home team, scoring four straight points with a kill from junior middle blocker Jessica Rieble and three straight scoring errors by the Toros to go up 7–4. UCSD would go on two more 3-plus point runs, to make it 11–6 and 19–12, before finishing o ff the set 25–
19. Rieble led the Tritons with 4 kills, 
and sophomore outside hitter Gina 
Cortesi added another 3. The second 
set followed a similar pattern, with the Toros leading before the Tritons settled in and jumped ahead. CSUDH led 6–4 early on before UCSD went on a 9-point run, bolstered by 5 attack errors and 2 kills from Cortesi, to take a 12–6 lead. The Tritons continued to 
lead for the rest of the set, extending their lead to as much as 7, going up 19–12 on an ace by junior outside hitter Cindy Tran. Another kill by Tran brought them up to 24–17, and junior outside hitter Sydney Tekstra finished 
off the set with a kill to make it 25–18. 
The third set went di fferently for 
the home team though, as it was able 
to score an unlikely win. Down 18–16 
to the Tritons, the Toros went on a 9–1 run to take the set 25–19. In the fourth set, UCSD was able to regain its composure and finish off the match 
with a 6–2 run to win the match 3–1. 
The next night, the Tritons came 
into CSULA with the weight of a playo ff 
berth on their shoulders. The sets were 
all close, but UCSD was unable to take control of the set like it had the night before against the 12th-ranked Golden Eagles. The Tritons leapt out to an early 
4–1 lead in the first set but were met by 
a demoralizing 6–0 run. UCSD would fail to regain the lead, losing the first set 
25–21. In the second set, the Tritons fought hard once again, tying the score nine times, for the last time at 15–15, before eventually going down 25–19 after a 5–0 run by the Golden Eagles. 
In a do-or-die third set, the Tritons brought the score as close as they had 
been all match, going down 25–23 to 
finish their season. 
In its last two games, the team was 
led by Cortesi, Rieble, Tekstra, and Tran. Cortesi led the team with 17 kills with Rieble and Tran adding 16 apiece. Freshman setter Maria Mayhew led the team with 57 assists, and freshman libero Susanna Limb added 26 digs. 
UCSD finished its season in fifth 
place in the South Division of the CCAA with a 7–10 record, and had a season best 4–0 run in its attempt at taking a playo ff spot. With a core of 
juniors and freshmen, the team should be in a position to make a run at a playoff berth once again next season.
BY jack dorfman
contributing Writer
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@gmail.comWomen’s Volleyball Falls Short 
of Playoffs With Loss to Chico
The team went 4-1 to end the season and finished with a 7–10 overall record.PAID ADVERTISING