VOLUME 51, ISSUE 19  MONDA Y , MARCH 5, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
The University of California 
Office of the President may reduce 
office expenses by up to 50 percent, 
according to a recent report 
published by Huron Consulting 
Group Inc. Reviews of UC President 
Janet Napolitano’s office that were 
provided to the Los Angeles Times reveal the 10-campus university 
system to be a $33 billion operation.  
State Auditor Elaine Howle 
found last year that the UC office 
has employed “misleading” budget 
techniques and that UCOP had 
generated a surplus budget of over $175 million, which it failed to 
disclose to the state. 
Howle told the LA Times that she 
did not attribute the surplus to any intentional wrongdoing and that her 
suggested reforms have since been 
implemented. 
The Huron Consulting Group 
Inc. has suggested an overhaul of 
UCOP that includes proposals such as the redistribution of programs 
among campuses, the elimination 
of postdoctoral fellowships, and 
converting UC medical system 
management to a statewide network. 
Additionally, the plan proposes 
the elimination of up to 110 of the 
office’s nearly 1,800 staffed positions and up to $50 million in cuts from the $883 million budget. 
According to Stephanie 
Beechem, media specialist for UCOP , the purpose of the review 
was to determine the best ways to 
carry out the office’s complex set 
of functions and services and to 
make sure that the organization was 
capable of supporting the UC system in the future. 
“ As UC makes decisions about 
the organization's structure and 
operations going forward, President 
Napolitano is consulting with 
many stakeholders, including UC HDH Addresses 
Student Concerns at 
College Council 
Members of Thurgood Marshall 
College Student Council 
questioned representatives on 
issues like safety and food waste.
On Thursday, March 1, two 
representatives from the UC San 
Diego Housing Dining  Hospitality 
met with the Thurgood Marshall College Student Council to address 
a number of concerns. Assistant 
Director of Operations Leo Casas and Senior Foodservice Manager 
Scott Spangler attended the meeting 
as liaisons.
Out of a number of topics that 
were brought up, most of the issues were focused on the improvement of some dining halls and markets. Issues 
of cross-contamination between 
vegetarian and meat options were addressed, as well as posting more 
comprehensive ingredient lists for 
allergy information and gluten-free options. 
Basic Needs Representative 
Angela Huang brought up the issue of HDH employees burning themselves 
on heating lamps at Goody’s Place. 
The representatives said that they 
were working on a thermal sleeve 
as well as other types of protective equipment but also explained that it is 
difficult to address worker injuries if 
the employee does not come forward.  
The council’s commuter 
representative noted that a lot of the recycling in dining halls is contaminated by students putting 
non-recyclable waste in the recycle 
bins and asked Casas and Spangler what they are doing to address the 
issue. 
The representatives responded 
by saying that they are looking into better educating students about 
which articles of trash go into which bin. Another admittedly aggressive 
option they are considering is having 
their “Econauts” stand near the trash during the busy hours of operation to 
assist people with sorting waste.
Casas and Spangler also said 
that they are considering reusable and sustainable dishware as a more 
eco-friendly option. Their concerns with introducing this kind of system 
are the increased water usage that 
would result from having to wash the dishware, as well as the potential for 
students stealing supplies and leaving 
them in heaps around housing areas, which they say costs HDH thousands 
of dollars to replace every year.
In addition to addressing concerns 
raised by council members, the HDH representatives made a few exciting 
announcements for the future. 
“Starting this fall, we will begin 
to serve hot breakfast at the Spice station in OceanView Terrace from 7 UC SYSTEM
BY Abigail Staggemeier
Contributing Writer 
BY  Tyler  Faurot
STAFF Writer
UCOP Plans Financial Overhaul After Review From Outside Firm
Sixth College students visited the photobooth before going to the Sixth College semiformal. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
See UCOP , page 3 See HDH,  page 3UC San Diego hosted a dedication ceremony 
at the San Diego Supercomputer Center 
for the new Halicio ğlu Data Science 
Institute on Friday, March 2. The new institute, 
named after UCSD alumnus and current computer 
science professor Taner Halicio ğlu, who donated 
$75 million toward its creation, will serve as 
a cross-disciplinary hub for students, faculty, 
and researchers interested in learning about and 
applying data science to their careers.
The dedication ceremony opened with 
comments from Chancellor Pradeep Khosla about the university’s vision for the institute.
“If there’s one thing that can completely join, 
integrate, and meld everybody and all intellectual 
disciplines on this campus together, it is data 
sciences, ” Khosla explained during the dedication. “[The institute] belongs to nobody and everybody 
simultaneously. ”
The institute will be co-directed by UCSD 
computer science professor Rajesh Gupta, who formerly served as the chair of the computer 
science and engineering department.  
“The institute is already working with 
disciplines like mathematics and cognitive science and computer science in offering courses [and minor degrees related to data science], ” Gupta said. 
“Going forward there will be many minors.”Gupta will be co-directing with Jeffrey Elman, 
the former dean of the Division of Social Sciences at UCSD, who is currently a professor in the 
cognitive science department.
Following Gupta was guest speaker Bill Nye, 
who spoke about his journey as a mechanical engineering graduate, to his career at the Boeing Company, to his media presence and his current 
job as the CEO of The Planetary Society. He 
continued to speak about how the Halicio ğlu 
Institute will change the field of data science.
“For centuries, what separates science from a 
great many other disciplines are the observations, the hypotheses, and especially the measurements made by the scientists, researchers, and engineers 
who are involved in the research,” Nye said. 
“The Halicio ğlu Institute will enable students, 
researchers, and student researchers to learn to 
handle more data in a day than Isaac Newton, 
Nicolaus Copernicus, or Henrietta Leavitt could gather and process in a lifetime. ” 
Both Gupta and Khosla echoed Nye’s sentiments 
about the institute as a hub for all students to access data science in statements to the UCSD Guardian.
“There are students that have nothing to do with 
the computer science major who want to take a computer science course, ” Gupta told the Guardian 
in an earlier interview. “[The computer science By  Promita  Nandy    Senior staff writerCAMPUS
Bill Nye Speaks at UCSD Regarding New Halicio ğlu Data Science Institute
The examination of their spending came after the state auditor concluded the office was inefficient with its budget.See BILL NYE,  page 3PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
CAPS AT 
UCSD
UC San Diego’s mental 
health clinic, Counseling and 
Psychological Services, has 
an unfortunate reputation for 
inaccessibility and ineffective 
treatment. The UCSD Guardian 
discussed these concerns with 
Dr. Reina Juarez, the director 
of CAPS.
RESIGNATIONS
CCAA  TITLEBurning  out  on  the  job
 UCSD Advances to TOURNAMENT OPINION,  Page   4
Sports,  Page 16
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“A.S. Council is 
decidedly clunky, 
structurally unsound, 
and personally shaken. 
But it is ultimately made 
up of well-intentioned, 
some of whom were just 
unequipped to handle 
the stress"
- THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
EDITORIAL BOARD
OPINION, PAGE 4Features,   PAGE  6 
MONDAY
H 67 L 50
WEDNESDAY
H 68 L 53
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ 
TUESDAY
H 70 L 51
THURSDAY
H 69 L 55
VAGINA MONOLOGUE.2
TARGET....................... ...4
ANNIHILATION..............8MARCH 2018..............10
W. BASKETBALL.........152 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
PRODIGIOUS CAMPUS By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardian
triton outifttersSHOP
to.ucsd.edunew winter lineVagina Monologues Failed to Sell Out Show Tickets As in Previous Years, But Still Made Profit
Although the show ended on Monday, merchandise is still on sale after the available shirts and hats were all bought on opening night.VAGINA MONOLOGUES
The 22nd annual student-run 
show “The Vagina Monologues 
and TheirStories” wrapped up on 
Monday night after a weekend of 
performances. 
“The Vagina Monologues 
and TheirStories” originated as 
“The V agina Monologues. ” It was 
created in 1996 by Eve Ensler who interviewed over 200 women and compiled several of the vagina-centered stories into a production 
of monologues. 
“I thought it was a great show, ” 
cast member Jordan Krikorian said, 
referring to last week’s performances. 
“I think everyone knew their pieces, 
and it ran smoothly. ... Half of the pieces were student pieces, so that’s really cool to see. I thought it flowed well, in general. ” 
Although the show did not 
sell out, “Vagina Monologues and TheirStories” sold over 1,000 tickets; the sale of about 600 tickets 
was required to break even. The 
production also sold out its new merchandise. 
All proceeds of the show are sent 
to two foundations. Break the Silence 
Against Domestic Violence is a 
national organization that provides workshops and conferences for survivors of domestic abuse. License to Freedom, a foundation based in San Diego, provides services for immigrant and refugee survivors. 
The show features a broad range 
of stories from serious to comedic pieces that touch on topics such as race, sexuality, and femininity. 
Some pieces involved audience 
participation. “Black Girl” was a monologue that also required the audience to repeat the names of black female victims of police 
brutality. During “Reclaiming 
Cunt, ” viewers were encouraged to yell out the word “cunt. ”
Last year, the production started 
featuring submitted stories from 
the UC San Diego  community 
to be reviewed and released as monologues in addition to the original script. The performance 
name was then changed to “The 
Vagina Monologues and HerStories. ” However, the title was changed again to “The Vagina Monologues and TheirStories” this year. 
“Last year they added custom 
scripts made by students on campus, and they added [them] to the play, but then this year they wanted to 
be a little bit more inclusive because 
they got a lot of critique on that, so they changed it to ‘TheirStories, ’” Merchandise Chair Sriya Podila commented. 
The 2018 cast focused on being 
more inclusive for transgender people, asexual people, and people of color. 
“I also think there was a larger 
focus on intersectionality, rather than just the white feminism of the original script, ” Show Photographer Alyssa Zamora added.
Director Antonia Lorenzo 
addressed the critique from last year’s show.
“I decided to direct because the 
directors last year did a really good 
job with ‘HerStories, ’ but there were 
a lot of issues, which we didn’t completely fix this year, ” Lorenzo said. “We worked really hard to try to address some of them, in terms 
of the space being transphobic 
and the monologues being really vagina-centric, even though it is ‘The V agina Monologues. ’”
She explains that the crew is 
hoping for “more student pieces to phase out more monologues” of the original script and add in personal, diverse stories from the UCSD 
community.
“It’s also important that we’re 
flexible with the way that things 
are written, ” cast member Cassidy 
Paradis said. “There’s a line in 
‘The Woman Who Loved to Make Vaginas Happy’: ‘I love vaginas. I love women. I don’t see the difference between them. ’ The line 
was changed to just ‘I love women. ’ 
It keeps that person’s story relevant without the exclusivity. ”
The monologues themselves 
were empowering to the cast and 
crew. 
“I always considered myself a 
feminist, but I don’t think I really 
fully understood the concept; but right now I feel like I’m more 
educated, and in a way, it kind of 
heals me as a person of my past experiences because of the fact that I understand why our society is the 
way it is, ” cast member Songnim 
Na said. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
sophomore Manda Meach shared her thoughts on the show. “Each 
monologue had its own unique 
story to tell that relates to some of the issues many women go through in society. It was interesting how 
personal these stories were and how 
I was able to relate to some of them unexpectedly, ” Meach said.  
The crew encourages “any 
student who identifies as anything 
other than a cis-male” to submit 
their own stories through the link on the Facebook page for next year’s production.
BY Abigail Staggemeier
staff Writer
Abigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. One day, I'm just gonna kick you in the face.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Alicia Lepler
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Associate Lifestyle EditorPhoto Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design EditorMultimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editor
Copy EditorAssociate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Chloe Esser, Maya Kleiman,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
APPLY TO JOIN A.S. COUNCIL '18 -'19
Online Filing Closes and Elections Applications
Due on Thursday, March 8th to A.S. Reception Desk or 
AS Elections Manager
VOTE ON TRITONLINK APRIL 9-13, FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT ASELECTIONS@UCSD.EDU as.ucsd.edu/ elections 
The Institute W as the Result of  a Massive Donation 
There Will Be An Open Forum on W ednesdayPromita Nandy   pnandy@ucsd.edu
Tyler Faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.eduAbigail Staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.edu
a.m. to 11 a.m., ” Spangler announced. 
“It will be 100-percent kosher and 
will include French toast, our own 
version of breakfast sandwiches, and so on. ” 
In addition to this, they announced 
that Bistro will be open on the weekends starting this  fall, and they 
will also install a freestanding Coke 
Freestyle machine in OceanView Terrace. 
There are also preparations 
underway to potentially relocate Goody’s Market from Marshall 
College to one of the new, upcoming 
colleges due to the current construction taking place on campus. 
“We have to move eventually, ” 
Casas said. “The decision will be made at the appropriate time. ” Finally, the Guardian asked Casas 
and Spangler about some raw chicken that ended up as a meme on social 
media. 
“We are aware of the memes. We 
tried reaching out to the person who was served undercooked chicken, but 
no one has come forward” Casas told the Guardian. “We have protocol in 
place to make corrective action but 
only when people file a complaint. ”
HDH will hold an open forum 
on Wednesday, March 7 in Revelle College. The purpose is to hear feedback from students about their 
concerns and offer suggestions for 
improvement. ▶ HDH, from page 1and engineering department has] nearly 10 times the students in our 
classes. Nine out of 10 are there not 
because they’re required to take that class, but because this is what they 
want to learn. We’re seeing the same 
thing in data sciences. If you have curious students in an environment 
that promotes curiosity, then you 
must have the scale to satisfy the 
curiosity. ”
The long-term plans include 
expanding the number of lectures, 
professors, professionals, and 
mentors across various departments. 
Bill Nye went on to share an 
anecdote about how he witnessed the Earth’s population change from 
2 billion people to 3 billion when he was nine years old, and how the 
population has more than doubled 
in his lifetime. 
“We are standing on a threshold of human history, ” Nye said. “There are more humans alive today than all of our ancestors combined. Not only 
are [humans] a part of nature, we 
are largely, for better or for worse, in control of nature. This is unique 
to our time. To do this we will 
have to learn to handle enormous numbers of numbers. Mountains of 
measurements, oceans of data, and 
with this institute in place, UCSD is poised to be the world leader in the 
disciplines required to make it so. ”
Students will be able to access 
the institute at its initial locations in the San Diego Supercomputer 
Center and at Atkinson Hall. There are plans to establish other hubs 
throughout the campus in the 
coming years.▶ BILL NYE, from page 1
Chancellors, Regents, the Academic 
Senate, and UCOP staff. Once 
decisions are made, it could take up to two years to implement changes, ” 
Beechem told the UCSD Guardian. 
John Muir College junior Melisa 
Itzel believes that it is in the students’ 
best interest that UCOP is held 
accountable for its usage of tuition and tax money. 
“It’s good to see that [its] 
expenses are being evaluated, and 
that [it is] being more cautious and efficient with how [it directs] funding, especially students’ tuition, ” 
Itzel stated to the Guardian. 
The suggestions made by Huron Consulting Group Inc. are only the 
latest of more than 10 proposals 
made regarding UCOP finances 
within the past 10 years. Another 
assessment is slated to occur this spring. 
"Part of that is the continual 
search for the Holy Grail, which 
is to run the best [Office of the 
President] one can imagine — the most efficient, the most streamlined, the most effective that contributes the most value to the university," Napolitano said when explaining the reviews to the LA Times.
Napolitano also acknowledged 
that she called for the review as a response to recent political pressure placed on the UCOP — particularly by Gov. Jerry Brown who has 
continually called on the UC system 
to reduce costs. 
Chairman George Kieffer of the 
UC Board of Regents stated that the latest report is one of many measures 
taken to promote excellence and 
transparency within the UC system, 
despite the downward trend of 
public approval on higher education. 
UCOP will announce the changes 
to be made at a UC Board of Regents meetings in March.
▶UCOP , from page 1UCOP to Announce Changes at Upcoming UC Regents Meeting
follow  us  
on
        twitter
@ UCSD
        GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In order to cure a disease, one should strive to find the cause rather than solely treat the 
symptoms. The structure of this university is full of symptoms of a larger disease that the 
administration refuses to acknowledge; instead of coming to better terms with the cure, it is 
throwing Band-Aids and hoping they stick. The road to hell is paved with good intentions, 
and its latest plans to bring the retailer Target onto campus is sure to give us miles worth of asphalt. This time the Band-Aid is supposed to cover the problems that students have with the UC San Diego Bookstore’s stock and prices of common use items, along with providing a cheaper alternative to the campus markets when shopping for produce and basic groceries.  
 Convenience is the biggest argument that the administration provides for this 
proposal, citing the ease of having a company with a vast range of products and services at low price points right on campus. One of the many reasons stems from the isolation of UCSD from the rest of La Jolla and the larger San Diego area, which makes shopping off 
campus a hassle, if not altogether unrealistic,  for some students. The proposed Target will 
do little to address this, however; it will not open until 2020 at the earliest. The Mid-Coast Trolley that will connect campus directly with the rest of the neighborhood and extend into downtown is projected to be completed by 2021. The addition of these trolley lines will solve a lot of the current problems with the lack of retail options on this campus by allowing 
students to incorporate themselves into the already-thriving commercial centers of the La 
Jolla and Clairemont Mesa area. Another  effective solution to this lack of retail is already on campus in the form of the Amazon Lockers and the Amazon Pickup center in Price Center. This allows students to purchase just about anything they could from a Target and have it 
delivered to campus at price points that are usually lower than those found in big-box stores 
like Target.
Despite Amazon’s presence, one can almost guarantee there will be a big profit with the 
campus population due to the low prices and the large array of products being available on the 
spot, not to mention the contrast to the markets and the UCSD Bookstore which have limited 
stock and exorbitant prices. Target is being touted as a solution, which indicates that the administration is aware that there is something flawed with the current situation. Attempting to fix the broken system would be asking too much of them, so instead it is privatizing. This demonstrates a different angle to the convenience of this Target because it will address the 
complaints regarding the food problems that this campus faces without actually requiring 
heavy lifting from the university. Far from the miraculous fix the administration wants it to be, it is simply its latest surface-level action to appease us. In-house options, Housing Dining Hospitality in particular, present many problems and inefficiencies to the student body, and 
until the university chooses to address the issues with the organization that dominates student 
life, it’ll continue to privatize and under-serve this campus.Both elected and appointed student leaders comprise the 
A.S. Council which tackles issues of housing, policing, basic 
needs, and transportation, to name a few. With less than a 
week before A.S. Council campaigning is set to begin for the 
2018-19 elections, the current administration has been filling seats on its own council. The illness in the current A.S. body comes from a string of resignations over the course of this 
quarter. A.S. Council has lost and replaced eight members, 
over 20 percent of its 34 voting members. This combined with an unhealthy amount of absences has in past meetings inhibited the council from reaching quorum — the minimum number of voting members needed to conduct a vote. Not 
only do these resignations stifle the progress promised by 
those who choose to run for elected office, but they speak to a common issue of the campus culture — burnout. 
 Unfortunately, no grand scandal can explain the 
loss of so many student leaders; a scandal would make the whole situation much simpler. Members of A.S. Council are dropping like flies because they are getting burned out so quickly. Burnout delays progress within and without A.S. Council and presents such a common problem for UC San 
Diego students that the university plans to change the drop 
deadline for classes to address it. But resigning from A.S. Council differs drastically from opting for a “W” in a class to enroll again with a better professor next quarter. Dropping 
A.S. Council is more like dropping a class in which the 
professor actively works against your interests, and the grades of 28,000 other undergraduates depend upon your own. The pressure is great – understandably too great for some. 
 The election process incentivizes students to take 
on these roles by offering a stipend that varies from $20 to $400 a week depending on the position and an opportunity to represent students on the campus issues that directly affect them. Evidently, neither suffices. 
The money means only so much when a part-time job 
would realistically pay more than most positions but require less of a time commitment, or when neither A.S. Council stipends nor a part-time wage cover the costs of living in San Diego or of higher education. As it turns out, appealing to a 
student’s eagerness to sacrifice time and energy for the sake 
of the campus’ political process is not sustainable either. Self-sacrifice might be enough when the person is a revolutionary rallying against the abuses of a totalitarian government or the lamb of God dying to cleanse mankind of sin. Self-sacrifice 
will never be enough when it’s a student functioning within 
the university’s bureaucratic mess to pass a resolution that will end up at the bottom of an administrator’s to-do list, all the while trying to balance their own education, their 
own schedules, their own finances, their own personal lives. 
Burnout culture is alive and well, and $20 a week won’t cut it anymore. 
As counterintuitive as it seems, A.S. Council needs less 
people but more work. The yearly turn-over of the whole of 
A.S. Council means that the initial capabilities of a new staff 
are dependent upon the training they receive. Representatives burn out because they are unprepared to tackle the massive time commitments these positions demand. If the election 
process mandated that candidates attend the same meetings, 
participate in the same programs, deal with the same tedious processes that force out the current members, only those prepared to take on the burden will rise to the occasion. If this type of informed consent fails to filter out those who can 
not take the pressure, a better stipend could pick up some 
slack. A.S. Council can afford to increase pay to a more compact team of hyper-motivated student leaders by cutting down on their bloated staff and shifting their stipends onto those positions that require the most work. It is impossible to ensure a stress-free environment; the nature of the job 
prohibits it. But A.S. Senate can ensure that candidates are 
well-equipped to handle the stress within and without the office. 
The onus of addressing burnout and disinterest does 
not fall entirely on the shoulders of A.S. Council, however. Civic engagement is a concerted effort between leaders and constituents, but the campus has largely divested interest. When the work representatives do is so disconnected from the rest of the student body, it is impossible for them to 
internalize their efforts and maintain the same initiative that 
drove them to run for office in the first place. After all, it’s not that these students never had any desire to enact change, it’s just that a bloated, belaboring, and flat-out boring 
bureaucracy squashed any inspiration they had at the start 
of fall quarter. A.S. Council deserves a chunk of the blame for this disconnect due to its systemic lack of transparency over the years, but how many students can name any of the members of the student government representing them?
A.S. Council is decidedly clunky, structurally unsound, 
and personally shaken. But it is ultimately made up of well-intentioned students, some of whom were just unequipped to handle the stress. Realistically, any and all candidates should 
know the totality of what that their prospective job entails well 
before campaigning. But an expectation of prior knowledge lies out of reach in a bureaucratic mess that provides little to no way to become familiar with the system without being elected or appointed into it. As easy as the situation is to 
criticize, it also makes sense; a campus community which 
neglects the humanity of its student government will always find a few empty chairs.
Giving Target the AxeSam Velazquez
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR  
Christopher Robertson
OPINION EDITOR
Lauren Holt
NEWS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published once a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2018. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. 
Burning
Out On
Resignations
By : The UC San Diego
Guardian Editorial Board
 “Inserting a corporation, a group that is 
operating for its own profit, into the very 
heart of campus defies the very spirit of public 
education at a time when the concept itself is 
already being crushed by ever-rising tuition 
costs and privatization of other realms of 
student life.”By: Adriana Barrios // Senior Sta ff Writer
See TARGET, page 5 ▶OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
DISCOVE R A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARSHIP 
PROGR AM.
©
2
0
1
4
. 
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
 i
t
ed 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. 
y
. 
y
Al
l
 rig
h
t
s
r
es
er
v
ed
.
The U.S . Army’ s Health Profes sions S cholar ship 
Program (HP SP) offer s qualiﬁed medic al, dental 
and vet erinary st udent s full t uition f or a gr aduate-
level degr ee at the s chool o f your choice . You’ll 
receive a mon thly s tipend and pa ymen t for books, 
equipmen t and ac ademic fees , as w ell as the 
potent ial to gro w as a le ader .
To learn more, visit
healthcare.goarmy.com/bts
V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuardianWORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
Using private businesses to 
remedy the problems of this 
public institution is, in and of 
itself, a problem. Even without 
the Target and Amazon, there is an ever-expanding presence of corporate businesses, with almost 
all of PC’s dining facilities being 
corporate eateries. Not only that, but the campus hosts innumerable coffee carts, restaurants, and take-out locations; UCSD is a 
commercial paradise. One retailer 
soon turns into two and so on until there is a mall on campus in the interest of diversifying the 
shopping experience. Due to the 
transportation changes occurring on or around campus, this seems significantly less likely to be beneficial to the students directly, 
but rather to serve the interest of creating a consumer experience for 
the community of this  institution.
 This can only be mitigated by 
popular consensus on how we as 
a student body want the culture 
on this campus to present itself. The decision then is whether or not we would like it to be a rife with private enterprise that leads 
to sending student and public 
money to the Fortune 500. College students are some of the most vulnerable to corporate interests; 
they are in debt and are often part-
time workers. By allowing Target or any other major retailer on this campus, UCSD is giving them a loyal clientele that will visit them 
at least once a week for four years, 
maximizing their profit as they prey on an institutionally disadvantaged group of people.
Fundamentally, this issue goes beyond the bureaucratic hypocrisy and minimal, low-effort attempts at solving real afflictions, to the fact that this is first and foremost a public 
university. Inserting a corporation, 
a group that is operating for its own profit, into the very heart of campus defies the very spirit of public education at a time when 
the concept itself is already being 
crushed by ever-rising tuition costs and privatization of other realms of student life. Every concession 
to big business is a step against the 
tenets of a public enterprise. As the campus grows, big business grows too, and it is up to the communities of these schools to determine how 
much they wish to sell out their 
college experience.
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
Adriana Barrios  A7Barrio@ucsd.edu▶ TARGET, from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
Rigorous academics, adjusting to life away from 
home, increased access to drugs and alcohol — these and other common stressors of college life 
make college students especially vulnerable to mental health problems. According to the National Alliance on Mental Health, over 75 percent of mental health conditions begin before age 24. 
Since college is such a critical time for mental health, 
universities feature campus counseling centers designed to 
service students. One such 
resource at UCSD is CAPS, an on-campus mental health clinic that has been operating since the late 
1960s. 
With multiple offices 
located throughout campus, 
CAPS offers a variety of services ranging from urgent care interventions to group counseling, all free 
of charge. Dr. Reina Juarez, 
the director of CAPS, spoke on which services UCSD students are especially in need of.
“On the one hand, there 
is a need for timely access to urgent care, individual counseling, and psychotherapy services by a multicultural and multilingual team of mental health professionals … and an extensive and efficient network of referral services 
to dependable and quality health providers in San Diego, ” 
she explained. “On the other hand, there is also a need for drop-in psychological workshops for skills building and preventative services toward stigma discrimination reduction, seeking help, and community building. ”
Mental wellness among college students therefore 
depends on both individual and community-oriented services. Dr. Juarez noted that this holistic approach to mental health is what sets CAPS apart from other college counseling centers. 
“The main difference between us and other counseling 
centers is our integrative and comprehensive student-centered approach coupled with our decentralized nature, ” she explained.
Students who wish to use 
CAPS must first schedule an appointment online or by phone and complete a five to 15-minute long assessment by phone with a CAPS counselor. If the 
evaluator determines 
that further treatment is required, the student will be scheduled to meet with a CAPS psychologist. Finally, 
if long-term treatment is 
necessary, CAPS will refer the student to an off-campus 
provider.
Unfortunately, students have found this multi-step 
appointment process to be inefficient and insufficient for 
meeting their needs. UC San Diego’s 
mental health clinic, 
Counseling and 
Psychological Services, 
has an unfortunate 
reputation for 
inaccessibility and 
ineffective treatment. 
The UCSD Guardian 
discussed these 
concerns with Dr. 
Reina Juarez, director 
of CAPS.
By Jade Knows 
His Gun-Wong // Senior Sta ff Writer
“I remember being on the 
phone, desperately looking for a 
counselor the day before my second 
year began. The wait time was 
horrendously long, and I could only 
schedule an appointment for weeks 
later. I wasn’t going to last that 
long, and I attempted suicide the 
next day in my dorm. ”
CAPS at UCSD: Get Well Soon?ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
SeeCAPS , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
One anonymous student reported, “I haven’t followed 
through with my interest in seeing a counselor at CAPS because 
of how difficult they make it seem to make appointments. My 
problems feel like a burden since there’s a lack of counselors 
to assist [me]. ”
Another student anonymously agreed that the appointment 
process is problematic, saying, “The only reason I was able to schedule an appointment in a timely fashion was because I 
expressed I was feeling suicidal. The soonest appointment 
time would have been weeks later otherwise. That isn’t right. ”
This apparent disregard for students who are considered to 
be at lower risk puts them in a precarious position; it implies that certain students are more deserving of care than others. The subjectivity of this process points to a need for greater 
accessibility. However, even in desperate circumstances, some 
students could not schedule an appropriate appointment time.
A third student recounted, “I remember being on the 
phone, desperately looking for a counselor the day before my 
second year began. The wait time was horrendously long, and 
I could only schedule an appointment for weeks later. I wasn’t going to last that long, and I attempted suicide the next day in my dorm. Not a pleasant experience for anyone around … It’s unsettling for everyone. Of course, I’m glad I’m finally better and back at school, but CAPS really needs more support to 
help the huge UCSD population. ”
Being understaffed is one reason why CAPS has such long 
wait times for appointments. Juarez designated “consistent 
staffing growth” as the main challenge of offering personalized mental health care to a large student population. To meet 
the demand of UCSD’s ever-expanding student body, the 
university needs to steadily increase its number of staff workers. 
“Given our student population needs, demand for services, 
and model of service delivery, there is a standard by means of which we would need to grow one mental health provider 
for every 1,000-[person] increase in the student population, ” 
Juarez explained.
“This ratio of 1-to-1,000 would need to be sustained at a 
consistent pace. ”
In addition to long wait times, some students were 
dissatisfied with the quality of the treatment they received. 
“I went to CAPS on and off, and I found [the] program 
really lacking for my needs, ” an anonymous student recounted.
Another student felt the same way, saying, “I went [to 
CAPS], kinda felt like a waste of time, but maybe it just wasn’t for me. [The psychologist] said there was nothing ‘wrong’ or ‘different’ with me. She also ended up sending me back to [Student Health Services] to see a doctor instead. ”
While every student is certainly subject to their own 
opinion, the UC Student Association’s evaluation of CAPS 
shows that there is more evidence for the organization’s inadequacy than the subjectivity of individuals.
As part of the #HowAreYou movement, which was in 
support of increased funding to campus mental health services, UCSA evaluated the counseling services of all nine 
UC colleges using both staff and student responses. On the basis of accessibility, diversity of staff, and outreach to 
students, UCSA gave CAPS a C+ rating; the area in which 
CAPS scored the lowest was accessibility.
In response to this substandard rating, 2017 alumna 
Sophia Gumas started a petition calling for an increase in funding to CAPS in May 2017.
The online petition reads, “We demand that there should 
be more funding and spaces allocated to CAPS to better the student to counselor ratio, as well as to have a student affairs 
case manager for each of the six colleges. ”
Gumas cited CAPS’ long wait times for appointments, 
poor student-to-counselor ratio, and lack of multilingual 
psychologists as proof of a need for greater funding. The need for multicultural staff members is especially necessary 
in the diverse cultural context of San Diego. Lacking diversity 
excludes underrepresented students and prevents them from receiving the care they need.
The petition addresses these concerns of increased 
inclusivity, claiming, “[We] should also factor in the historically underrepresented groups that need more specialized attention 
at CAPS. There is a dire need to hire two culturally proficient 
and multilingual psychologists at UCSD. ”
While students continue to press CAPS for higher quality 
care, the counseling center was recently issued an increase in funding that will continue to grow over the next several years.
“In 2014, the UC Regents, with the overwhelming support 
of students, passed an increase in the student services fees to support student mental health services at the 10 campuses. This increase would happen incrementally over the following five years starting in the 2015-16 school year, ” Juarez explained.
Thanks to this funding increase, CAPS has seen some 
improvements in staffing and wait times for appointments. 
“This year, we are fully staffed, and it has made a difference, ” 
she stated. 
“This week, our wait time to see students for an initial 
evaluation is one week. In 2014, the wait time could range from three to five weeks, especially during the fall and winter quarters. ”
Based on the aforementioned student responses, however, 
CAPS still has much room for improvement. Before students can be successful in classes, clubs, or even their careers, they must thrive mentally; that all depends on the active prioritization of resources like CAPS.▶ CAPS , from page 6
Jade  Knows  His  Gun-Wong    jknowshi@ucsd.edu
@UCSDGUARDIANFIND US ON
fac eb o o k@UCSDGUARDIANFollow  US  ON
twitterA&E EDITOR // ALICIA LEPLER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Impressionistic visuals and a compelling premise just aren’t enough to make “ Annihilation” a science fiction classic.
In “ Annihilation, ” a mysterious object 
from space strikes the Earth in a burst of 
light. From ground zero, a glowing region 
of kaleidoscopic color expands. Everything 
within this zone, dubbed “The Shimmer, ” enters an accelerated process of inexplicable gene transfer and mutation, leaving flora 
and fauna in disturbing disarray. The film 
follows Lena, a cellular biology professor, and a team of military-sanctioned scientists as they launch an expedition toward the source of The Shimmer.
At a molecular basis, all living things 
are connected. Life is just the constant rearrangement and congregation of building blocks that have always existed — from 
the stars, from this world, and from our 
ever-expanding universe. Genetics and the environment around us are closely interlinked, making each and every one of us unique. Our DNA is constantly changing as we age and our 
cells divide; these mutations beget constant 
variation as the cycles of life continue and evolution progresses. Emergent properties — the whole being different from the parts — 
then determine what we become. So what happens when these fundamental 
laws of life are upended? What happens to 
humanity when the facets of evolution and the 
very DNA that maps out who we are become 
twisted and distorted? 
What “ Annihilation” does well is address 
these ideas with a subtle, slow-burning 
intensity. Borrowing from his previous film 
“Ex Machina, ” director Alex Garland again demonstrates his knack for building a feeling of constant unease that permeates the film. This growing tension is paralleled by the slow 
mental unraveling of Lena as she realizes that 
reality is no longer the way  she understands it. 
Self-destruction hence serves as the central 
theme of “ Annihilation. ” It’s stated by the 
characters, stated in the title, and stated in the 
evident deterioration of all life throughout the film. But for all its commentary on  the human condition and mental self-destruction, there’s no emotional substance. The main problem 
with “ Annihilation, ” then, is in how it depicts 
its characters. At its core, science fiction is a genre that constructs scientifically plausible scenarios in order to explore their effects on 
society or the human condition. The film explicitly presents The Shimmer as a tangible 
analogy for human self-destruction. And yet, telling us that these characters are struggling 
with themselves is not the same thing as 
showing it. For  all its artistic appeal, there’s little to no heart actually present in the story. 
The broken team of expeditioners that 
enter The Shimmer are all mentioned to be struggling with some form of depression or tragedy, but that’s about all we learn — we don’t really see why or even how. In many ways, the talented cast of “ Annihilation” is 
heavily underutilized; we hardly see any real 
interaction between the women, and there are few moments that help us actually understand them. Instead, they seem only to be flat 
caricatures whose sole purposes are to act as 
plot devices and participate in shocking thrills when the story calls for it. Even Lena, arguably the film’s best developed character, is relatively two-dimensional. We see her shine in a few 
brief flashbacks involving her husband, but 
these scenes are few and far between. In fact, past Lena is so dissociated from present Lena that they might as well be two different people. 
Nevertheless, there are definitely flashes of brilliance in the film, and “ Annihilation” doesn’t hold back with its unique visual style. Certain sequences are immersively dreamlike, 
with vibrant color palettes and grandiose sound 
design. But artistic merit isn’t everything. The film is regrettably held back by an overreliance on horror movie cliches, ponderous scenes 
full of flair and no substance, and, ultimately, 
a lack of focus on character. At its best, “ Annihilation” is beautifully cinematic and thought-provoking. At its worst, it serves as a prime example of science fiction that becomes 
so fixated on philosophy, it forgets about 
humanity. 
If it is  meant to be an examination of 
life and human suffering, “ Annihilation” falls 
short. It has all the potential to be a compelling, 
science-fiction masterpiece, but the elements just aren’t there. The premise is intriguing and the action is suitably suspenseful — if only we actually cared about the characters.
—  Derek deng
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
annihilation
PHOTO COURTESY OF PARAMOUNT PICTURES
Directed by   Alex Garland
Starring  Natalie Portman, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Tessa Thompson, Gina 
Rodriguez, Tuva Novotny, Oscar Isaac
Release Date  Feb. 23, 2018
Rated  RCbA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
UC San Diego honors Lorraine Hansberry’s classic work through their beautifully executed rendition of “ A Raisin in the Sun. ”
February is Black History Month, 
dedicated to honoring and celebrating 
the culture and historic achievements of 
the black community. One featured individual 
was the gifted writer Lorraine Hansberry, 
who, at the young age of 29, won the New 
York Drama Critics’ Circle Award. Author of the 1959 classic “ A Raisin in the Sun, ” 
Hansberry was the first black woman to have 
her work performed on Broadway. Hansberry was well known for her gifted writing and 
ability to discern the fundamental problems 
in American society. 
The UCSD Guardian sat down with the 
play’s director, Kim Rubenstein, to discuss her role in bringing the project to fruition. Rubenstein was inspired to put on Hansberry’s 
play after seeing two of her students in her 
Intensive Ensemble Acting Class work on a scene from “ A Raisin in the Sun. ” Rubenstein 
“suggested the play in [her] faculty season-
planning meetings and the faculty was excited about the possibility. ” “ A Raisin in the Sun” 
premiered at the Mandell Weiss Theatre at 
the La Jolla Playhouse. Rubinstein maintained the integrity of the whole text,  “representing an everyday financially challenged African 
American family in 1959 that resonates deeply 
with 2018. ” However, due to time restrictions, Rubenstein had to make  some internal 
changes  to the text. Her adaptation was 
“represented in the technical aspects — using a more industrial [aesthetic], projections and 
lighting to catapult 1959 into today. ” 
The play is set during the 1950s in a 
poverty-stricken, racially segregated area in the South Side of Chicago. The story centers 
around a black family with dreams of moving up in the world, but it faces restrictions due 
to its financial struggles. “ A Raisin in the Sun” 
touches upon universal issues, such as family drama, to unite the audience through a shared 
view on humanity. Throughout the story, 
there is a constant battle between old-school, family-oriented values and more modern 
values, such as personal achievement. This 
disparity is personified through Grandma Lena’s (Kimberly Monks) character and her 
son Walter Y ounger (Michael Rishawn).
The main characters include: Walter Younger, his wife Ruth Younger (Janet Fiki), 
his sister Beneatha (Amara Granderson), and 
his mother Grandma Lena. Walter’s father has 
recently died, leaving his family members a large sum of $10,000 to help them keep their 
heads above water. The family members are 
at odds with one another in terms of how the inheritance should be used. Beneatha 
wants to use the money to pay for her college 
education while Walter, a hardworking man determined to get more from life, believes it 
would be smarter to invest the money for a 
profit. However, his impulsive nature becomes destructive when he takes  his anger out on his 
loved ones. 
Walter and Grandma Lena’s differing 
world views fascinate because while both see the value of hard, honest work, they have 
different definitions of “success” and what it takes for one to lead a happy life. Grandma 
Lena struggles to understand why younger 
people are no longer content with what they have; she has a count-your-blessings type of 
philosophy. In her view, it is bad to obsess 
over money and status, and she believes that it should be enough to have one’s freedom, to build a family, and live a life of worship. On 
the other hand, Walter sees life as an upward 
trajectory; he is not satisfied with staying in one place. 
The title of Hansberry’s play was inspired by 
a Langston Hughes’ quote: “What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a raisin in 
the sun?” The quote’s pertinence to the socio-
economic issues of its time illuminates the trials of poverty crisis in the black community 
during the 1950s. The Younger family dreams 
of a better life, one of financial stability and equal opportunity. The family’s situation 
effectively brings out important issues of the 
time that affected black and impoverished communities, which were often one and the 
same. Kim Rubenstein’s thoughtful adaptation 
of Hansberry’s classic work “ A Raisin in the Sun” proves that the play is just as relevant 
today as it was in the 1950s.
 
—  lorena  espinoza
Senior Staff Writer
PLAY   REVIEW
A  Raisin  in  the  Sun
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD THEATRE AND DANCE
Director   Kim Rubenstein
Writer   Lorraine Hansberry
Starring  Michael Rishawn, Amara Granderson, Kimberly Monks, Janet Fiki
Runs   Feb. 9 — Feb. 17
Location   Mandell Weiss TheatreCaOn album opener, “She Works Out Too Much, ” lead vocalist Andrew 
VanWyngarden sings, “Welcome to the shit show”;  a fitting start from a band 
which could not care less about your validation. After releasing three of the most popular songs of the last decade, MGMT dropped off the face of the earth and made a few eclectic, non radio-friendly albums 
— simply because it could. Now the 
band is back with an album that finally finds the perfect balance between niche and mainstream: “Little Dark Age. ”
“Me and Michael, ” for example, is a charming synth-driven song reminiscent of 
‘80s chart toppers. The understated bassline blends beautifully with flowery guitars and the drum machine keeps the beat danceable. “When Y ou Die” ditches the synths in favor of acoustic guitars and some of the most morbid lyrics on the entire album. Themes of death turn up a few times on the album, featuring prominently in songs like “One Thing Left to Try” and “Days that Got Away. ” 
It’s difficult to pin down a distinctive message or theme on an album that throws 
so much at you so quickly, but MGMT seem most concerned about the concept of wasted time; more specifically, the time spent wasted online. “She Works Out Too Much”  is a critique of dating apps and the aptly titled “TSLAMP” which stands for “time spent looking at my phone. ” “TSLAMP” is one of the more sonically pleasing cuts, with a vivid string section that sounds like it was soaked head-to-toe in reverb.
This album isn’t all good, however; there are a few skippable songs. These range from the dreadfully meh “When Y ou’re Small, ” to the downright strange “James, ” which is just too odd for its own good. Fortunately, these songs sound better when listened to in the context of the whole album and don’t do too much damage to the overall quality of the album. At worst, they slow down the pace and add unnecessary minutes to the runtime. That leads to the main problem with “Little Dark Age”: the length. Nearly every song is over four minutes, and this leads to some playing out before they’re even halfway over. MGMT could easily shave seven to eight minutes off the total runtime and the album would be much better for it.
With all this said, however, everything this album does wrong is overshadowed 
by the sheer amount of what it does right. For every bad song, there are two great songs and for every boring moment, there is a banger just around the corner. The crown jewel of the album is the title track, “Little Dark Age, ” a gothic pop song that puts The Cure to shame. This track alone shows that MGMT can still do what MGMT does best: make a catchy song. Every instrument serves a purpose and the lyrics are simple enough to get stuck in your head for weeks. This, along with the soothingly meditative closing track, “Hand It Over, ” elevates “Little Dark Age” from just another MGMT album to the MGMT album. 
—  Nolan  Willett
 Contributing Writer
Little   Dark  Ageby  MGMT
Release Date  Feb. 9, 2018
MGMT finally settle into its niche between mainstream pop and indie psych rock.ALBUM   REVIEW
A-10                                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
As Al Roker would say, “Here’s what’s happening in your neck of the woods. ” 
San Diego Festival of Science and Engineering: March 3-11, 2018 in various locations
For 10 days, San Diego will explode into a celebration of STEM. Enjoy a variety of lectures, 
workshops, and events for college students and young adults of all ages. A full list of happenings 
can be found here: https://www.lovestemsd.org/
LA VA Exhibition: March 6, 2018 (4 p.m.-5:30 p.m.) at The Office of the Executive Vice 
Chancellor, University Center 105
Celebrate the artists of UC San Diego at LAV A, curated by the visual arts graduate department. 
The focus of this exhibition challenges expected colors, textures, and patterns of the everyday by incorporating concept art into the mundane. This deviation from our usual aesthetic is free for UCSD students and includes a performance at 4:30 p.m. by musicians David Borgo and Tommy Babin.
Revolt. She Said. Revolt Again.: March 8, 2018 (7 p.m.) at Mandell Weiss Forum
Challenging an interwoven and internalized misogyny prevalent in societal structures, this 
play written by Alice Birch breaks the silence to amplify all things femme. Student tickets sell at 
$10 and opening night is March 8, with shows running until March 17.
Taste of Third: March 8, 2018 (4 p.m.-8 p.m.) in South Bay, SD
Crawl through the best culinary offerings of the Village in South Bay! Tickets go for $25-$30 
and include access to everything from bite-sized appetizers to mini sweet treats. And for the 21+ 
crowd, tickets include opportunities to (carefully) consume crafted cocktails and brews. 
Cherry Blossom Festival: March 9-11, 2018 (10 a.m.-6 p.m.) at the Japanese Friendship 
Garden, Balboa Park
Tired of the iconically artificial Bath and Body Works Japanese Cherry Blossom body spray? 
Come take a whiff at the 13th annual Sakura Matsuri at Balboa Park to indulge in hanami, the art of appreciating cherry blossoms. For $12, visitors can view buds and blooms, while 
enjoying food and performances. 
Julian Daffodil Show: March 10, 2018 (10 a.m.-4 p.m.) 
at Julian Town Hall
If the cherry blossoms didn’t satisfy a flora craving, take a 
day trip to Julian for some pie and daffodils. This event is free 
to all and showcases an exhibit of watercolor interpretations. 
International Mariachi Festival: March 11, 2018 (11 a.m.-7 p.m.) at Pepper Park
Competing mariachi bands, traditional folk dance, and authentic art and food find their 
home at the sixth Annual International Mariachi Festival located in National City. Free to all San 
Diegans, come and celebrate community and culture while supporting youth art and education!
Salsa Under the Stars: March 16, 2018 (6 p.m.-9 p.m.) at Seaport HQ
It’s everything this title suggests. Salsa and Bachata by the sea and under the stars to the 
musical stylings of Manny Cepeda and orchestra. No experience is needed! 
St. Patrick’s Day Parade and Festival: March 17, 2018 (9 a.m.-6 p.m.) at Balboa Park
Need a bit o’ luck for finals week? Take a break and join the Irish Congress of Southern 
California for a day of food, performances, and Celtic celebrations. Not to mention a beer garden 
for imbibers over 21. 
Spring Eggstravaganza: March 24, 2018 (11 a.m.-3 p.m.) at Birch Aquarium at Scripps
For two weekends in a row, come celebrate the Easter season in the utmost San Diegan 
style. Featuring a “scuba bunny” diving show, shark egg crafts, and even the works from Scripps 
Oceanography egg scientists, this event is sure to be egg-cellent, pun unashamedly intended. Event fee is included in regular admission ticket price. 
During any student’s time at UC San Diego, there’s bound to be an instance 
when friends or family come to visit. Dates and times are arranged, rides are found, and soon enough the trip will commence. But there is often one crucial factor missing from the planning process, at least from my own personal 
experiences; what is there to do? After all, nobody wants to invite their friends 
and family over for a weekend of sitting around their bedroom. 
However, there seems to be a certain misconception among students that 
there isn’t anything exciting to do in San Diego. I mean, the nickname “UC Socially Dead” says it all. But just because a person refuses to go out doesn’t mean San Diego has nothing to offer. To put this myth to rest, I’m going to share my own personal experience of taking friends around the greater La Jolla area. Though there isn’t as much to do as in, say, Los Angeles, San Diego has its own charm that is worth experiencing. 
Downtown La Jolla
On Friday of President’s Day weekend, my friends visited, with one 
coming from Irvine and one from LA. As we began our usual catch-up session, the topic of the weekend’s activities soon arose. My friends and I pored over our options at my kitchen table and came to the conclusion that our early afternoon should be spent at downtown La Jolla. W aking up at 
the early hour of 11 a.m., we finished breakfast in time to drive there from 
campus soon after. 
The highlight of downtown was the high quality dessert from Bobboi 
Natural Gelato, located right next to La Jolla Cove. My friend and I shared a medium blood orange and pineapple mix, a combination tasting of the sweetest and most refreshing gelato I’ve ever had. Since the cove is only a short walk away, we ended up sitting by the ocean while eating, an absolutely heavenly experience. Afterward, we visited the sea lions, watching as they basked in the sun. Honestly, goals. 
Old Town
Next was Old Town, since my friend insisted on having “San Diego-Mexican food.” We spent a good 45 minutes of our afternoon eating at the Alamo Mexican Cafe, which was luckily uncrowded and had quick service. At one point a mariachi came through the restaurant, playing “La Bamba” on his guitar as he walked around. We then strolled around the main street, 
visiting places like Toby’s Candle & Soap Shop and Y e Olde Soap Shoppe 
just for the fun of it. Overall, Old Town is a good place to spend a relaxed afternoon with whoever may be visiting. Though parking is a hassle, everything else about the area makes going there worth it.
Convoy
If you’re looking for Asian food around San Diego, Convoy Street is the 
way to go. The location’s popularity among students is no joke, since there are a variety of restaurants with good food at relatively reasonable prices. Even for my friend, a vegetarian, there were a healthy number of culinary 
options. She had never tried Korean food, so Friend’s House ended up being 
our destination. Convoy not only has good dinner places, but a multitude of boba shops and desserts. Kung Fu Tea served as our hangout before dinner, while Somisomi became our dessert stop after the fact. At Somisomi, we were able to purchase the Instagram-able ice cream with the fish waffle (taiyaki). Overall, we ended up eating way more than we should’ve, but it 
was completely worth it. 
Around Campus and Other Alternatives
For those who aren’t into the food and shopping scene, there are several 
more options for fun activities in the La Jolla area. If someone is a beach 
lover, there is kayaking, snorkeling, and paragliding in the vicinity of La Jolla Shores, only a short drive from campus. Those into group activities can go to karaoke or an escape room. As for the more touristy route, Balboa Park has a multitude of gardens and museums, though some do have an entrance fee. My point is that San Diego has a lot more than what meets the 
eye, and some of these hidden gems may just be lurking under the surface. 
But doesn’t that make them all the more worth looking for?
After my daily mind-numbing walk from Galbraith Hall to the Social Science Building, I would  
occasionally reward myself with my favorite Mango-A-Go-Go from Jamba Juice. As I salivate staring at the employee pour the sweet, creamy smoothie into the Jamba Juice cup, I’ d peel the paper covering 
to reveal Jamba Juice’s classic orange plastic straw. Until last year, it had never occured to me how this 
one little straw could actually cause a tremendous impact to the wildlife. As I was drinking the delicious concoction, a friend shared a video of a sea turtle bleeding and wailing in agonizing pain as rescuers were trying to pull out a plastic straw stuck in its nostril. I then stared at the Jamba Juice cup for a solid minute and blamed my friend for showing me the gruesome video. Not only has the video haunted me for eternity, but most importantly, it made me realize how little I was doing to help the environment. 
It is detrimental to know that we live our daily lives essentially killing Earth and its wildlife. A 
Starbucks venti iced Americano would already generate the use of a plastic cup, a plastic lid, and a plastic straw that all ultimately end up sitting in a landfill. However, we humans do not directly receive 
the impact — wildlife like marine animals end up suffering the consequences as litter floats on the 
ocean.
As part of the UC San Diego community, we can all help save and preserve Earth and prevent 
its wildlife from entering extinction. Many on-campus locations are doing their part to encourage consumers to give back to Earth. For example, Muir Woods Coffee House offers a small reusable mug discount when ordering a drink, all UCSD Markets provide a 5-cent reusable bag discount and a 20-cent reusable mug discount, the Triton Food Pantry gives an extra point for bringing a reusable bag, and Canyon Vista has a beefless Monday menu. 
Beyond UCSD, plastic straws and wooden chopsticks can be avoided while dining as these one-time 
use disposable utensils are destined to house in a landfill. I lean on the more extreme side; I carry a Glad 
reusable container and various stainless steel utensils like straws, forks, and spoons in my car in case I 
dine out with friends or family. Additionally, being more aware of the amount of meat you consume is also important not only for your health, but also for the environment. A pound of beef compared to a pound of vegetables leaves a significant difference in terms of the environmental footprint. Consider going meatless at least once a month to fight against unethical meat production, animal methane generation, and water and land consumption. With finals approaching, if appropriate, use the back of scratch paper to save a few trees and to prevent deforestation. Reusable water bottles like a Hydro Flask or S’well and reusable grocery bags reduce litter floating on our nearby waters. Reduce energy usage by selecting the cold water setting when doing laundry. Avoid attending animal shows like circuses or 
marine parks, which involve animal cruelty, as shown through PETA. These are just a few of many ways 
we can do to preserve the world and the beautiful nature surrounding us.
By simply taking these painless small steps, we are slowly saving a beluga, an okapi (my favorite 
animal!), or another coral reef that houses countless species. Earth has provided not only us a home to live, but also many other wildlife animals. Unfortunately, most damages caused by humans are permanent and irreversible. However, we can do our part to sustain our biodiversity and slow down any further premature wildlife extinction.   March 2018 P eeks and Previews 
by Lifestyle Staff Team
The World Against the Straws 
by Rebecca Tsang // Contributing WriterA Student's Guide: Showing Your City to Friends and Family
by Jade Hookham // Contributing Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF JADE HOOKHAMLIFESTYLE                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  11
LET YOUR IDEAS 
SEE THE SUN
You can light our way to a more inclusive campus. 
What is your vision?
Tell us today at diversity.ucsd.edu.   
I recently found a 1950s tourism video of my hometown and was 
surprised to see that the city’s buildings have not changed. However, 
while Palm Springs used to be a small town known for its luxury, it is now mostly seen as the place where Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival is held. While Coachella Fest is a great experience for many, 
there is so much more to this hidden southern California gem. If you 
don’t have any plans for spring break yet, I suggest you take a road 
trip down to the desert and spend it in the places only a local could 
recommend.
1. Palm Canyon Drive
This is the area also known as downtown Palm Springs, a long 
street filled with little shops and restaurants. The architecture rings true to the Frank Sinatra era, and most of it remains unchanged since then. Great Shakes is a small shop with a jukebox, old-fashioned candy, and retro music posters to display this early ‘50s Palm Springs style. It also features an entire chalkboard wall full of different milkshake flavors. Each milkshake comes with a mini 
glazed donut on the straw, which offers some pretty Instagram-
worthy photo options.2. Village Fest
This nighttime street fair is held on Palm Canyon Drive every 
Thursday night. Not only do all the shops remain open past their normal closing times, but every booth is guaranteed to be selling something homemade. Most of the art galleries are free, including the Elena Bulatova Fine Art gallery, which has an outdoor area and a lit up “ Art” sign that can make for some great photos. The food is also amazing, and I would recommend the stand that sells Spanish paella, as well as any of the fruit and vegetable booths that sell an 
array of local produce.
3. College of the Desert Street Fair
I may be biased because my family works there, but this is still a 
great place to visit if you’re in Palm Desert for the weekend. While 
there is always a bargain to be found in anything from produce to hair accessories, the food is what really makes it special. Y ou can’t leave without trying the Italian ices at E & E Pel’s Enterprises Inc. While it sounds like a simple dessert option, this Italian ice recipe is the shop’s own original creation and is a staple in this desert community. E & E Pel’s regularly sells these desserts at street fairs, community events, and even local schools at lunch time. They are life-changing!
4. El Paseo
I remember driving a student from France through El Paseo, 
and she said, “It’s like Paris!” This short street in Palm Desert is full 
of high-end shops from Gucci to Louis Vuitton, art galleries full of local art, and expensive food. If you’re on a health kick, Fresh Juice Bar specializes in smoothies and smoothie bowls, and that’s where the cool high schoolers spend their money on breakfast every day. Nevertheless, the menu is extensive, and everything tastes so good, you wouldn’t even be able to tell it’s healthy. I would recommend the healthy twist on a date shake, which is complete with almond milk and cinnamon.
5. Esmeralda Hotel
It’s one of our fanciest hotels, and I’m not just saying that because 
that’s where my former high school holds its prom every year. Justin 
Bieber stays there when he comes down every other year, and I met 
Ed Sheeran there before sneaking into his private acoustic lounge. It can’t hurt to stroll around and see who you can find.6. Miscellaneous restaurants and cafes
I always make sure to hit these hidden gems when I am home: 
IW Coffee, Koffi, Sherman’s Deli & Bakery, Goody’s Café, Mario’s Italian Restaurant, Fernanda’s Salvadorian Food, Villagio Italian Kitchen, JT’s Diner, Que Mango, Ice Cream & Shop(pe), and many more!
So there is your guide on how to live like a local in the Coachella 
V alley! The Coachella V alley is a great place if you love small towns, minimal traffic, and picturesque scenery everywhere. This valley has come a long way since the ‘50s, but it remains a great place for a visit and a mini getaway!
Coachella Valley Roadtrip 
by Samirah Martinez // Contributing Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF SAMIRAH MARTINEZ12                                            T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  5 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
VISIT
facebook.com/tritonoutﬁttersI think it is safe to say we have all 
had investments in certain shows, music 
groups, and even people themselves. There is something comforting about emotionally connecting to characters on a 
show, or maybe seeing qualities of yourself 
in a successful star. One might even label themselves as a “stan. ”
“Stanning” is not something incredibly 
new to the internet. It is the act of being a dedicated fan of something or someone — though it is more so attached to the fan bases of music stars that exist throughout Twitter. If one frequents Twitter too much 
(as I do), there is a chance a “stan account, ” 
a sub-account that many users have to tweet about their fan base, has appeared on their timeline. They exist in hiding yet somehow manage to exert influential power on charts, award shows, and even to the stars themselves. While this influence has been in decline in the recent years, the impact stan Twitter had in the past is 
nothing short of interesting. 
For simplicity’s sake, I’ll focus most 
of my examples on the “stan culture” of a 
specific music group — Fifth Harmony.
Fifth Harmony is a multi-platinum girl 
group that was formed in 2012 on the X Factor, placing in third overall and securing a recording deal with Epic Records shortly after. The group’s popularity slowly rose 
over the years, breaking barriers in 2015 
with hits like “Sledgehammer” and “Worth It. ” The biggest hit came in 2016 with the release of “Work from Home, ” which reached fourth on the Billboard Hot 100, with the music video amassing over 100 million views in a little over a month  (one of the most watched videos of 2016). 
Fifth Harmony’s rise to prominence 
serves as a testament to what American girl groups can accomplish, even though they need to work twice as hard as American boy groups. Girl groups face scrutiny on levels above that of boy groups, having to create synchronized choreography and matching wardrobes in order to be considered “decent. ” Not to say that artists should not focus on making their concerts entertaining, but I notice that this same standard of constant excellence is not 
applied to boy groups. 
Nonetheless, some of Fifth Harmony’s 
early success would have not been as 
significant without its fan base’s dedication.
The Fifth Harmony stan account is 
slightly more complex than your average one-star stan account. Most of the accounts have emphasis on all of the members, but some have a direct focus. For example, 
some accounts will be a “Lauren stan” 
account, putting focus on member Lauren Jauregui, and will make her the profile picture and have a username related to her. This is known as having a “fave, ” a term used to distinguish who a user’s favorite of the group is.
Fifth Harmony stan Twitter used to not 
all be about deciding which fave outranks 
another. For some, stan Twitter was an 
organized place to assemble and utilize mass fan participation to bolster chart positions, album sales, or even music video views. Fifth Harmony stans were infamous in their dedication to voting, streaming songs and videos, or buying albums. Update accounts, accounts designed for keeping up with the band or individual 
members, launched structured times to 
stream a Fifth Harmony single that would last hours. Each dedicated stan would post screenshots of themselves streaming songs like “Work from Home” on multiple devices in order to bolster the stream count. When the group was nominated for awards, this same kind of teamwork would arise in the form of mass voting — 
where each update account would “face” 
against each other in order to see who could gather the most people to vote for the group. 
These were planned, structured, 
and so professionally orchestrated that it demonstrated a considerable level of influence that stan accounts had on rising artists. However, stan Twitter is not without its failures and problems.
Following the departure of original 
member Camila Cabello in late 2016 (and arguably her disinterest in the group since earlier in the year), the group’s stans were nearly halved — many following in Cabello’s steps and ceasing to support the group. Others chose to support both Cabello and the group despite them being competitors on the same label. This internal split between the stans was 
already evident by the racial harassment 
of member Normani Hamilton, in which stans who followed Cabello sent Hamilton explicit and violent photos of her getting harmed; labeled as “C stans, ” some of these people launched this to “defend” Cabello against the group. While this was not the first time racism was seen in the fan base, it was one of the first notable attacks that 
was organized.
Harassing stars and even other stans 
in order to defend their specific faves is 
another facet of stan culture that has ruined the once supportive and constructive space. Chart positions are now used to demean other artists, invalidate others’ opinions, or justify their own star’s importance. Their influence has been reduced to something 
to be mocked, but it really was a spectacle 
to be seen when their main purpose was supporting the artist they loved.
Stan Twitter is not just a place for 
the music scene; it can be extended to outside this scope as well. Having a place to talk about your favorite band, television show, or star is always refreshing. While sometimes it may seem toxic, there are 
still aspects of stan life that cannot be 
undermined. Stan Twitter is broad enough to encompass all those sub-divisions, and with it comes places of discussion, friendships, and new ideas.
Internet Culture: The Stan Twitter Effect  
by Elizabeth Adams // Staff Writer
PHOTOS COURTESY OF LIZZY ADAMSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MARQUIS HILL BLACKTETTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 5 - 11 2018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANTHURSDAY, MARCH 8
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
IGNITE 2018: INNOVATOR & 
ENTREPRENEUR CONFERENCE - 
PRICE CENTER
Want to freelance or create your own job? Have a 
business or nonprofit idea? Interested in meeting 
San Diego startups? Dont miss Ignite, UC San 
Diego's flagship innovation conference. Launched in 2017, this annual event brings together campus and community entrepreneurs for two days of networking and hands-on learning. Highlights include keynotes, breakouts, pitch competitions, a demo fair, interactive workshops, and much more. Connect with faculty, students, alumni, industry leaders, and experts from across San Diego. Apply to participate in the 
startup fair or compete for $25,000 in prizes. 
Early-bird tickets start at $5; $10 after January 
1. Save 20% with code UCSD20! Register at ignite.ucsd.edu. Volunteer opportunities also 
available.
11:30am
STARTUPS & PIZZA: DEVELOP A 
SUPPORT TEAM FOR YOUR NEWCO - FUNG AUDITORIUM - BIOENGINEERING HALL
UC San Diego Office of Innovation and 
Commercialization is partnering with Dentons and Tiber Creek on a seminar series on what you need to know about forming a startup company.
1pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR - 
GSA STUDENTS LOUNGE
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This forum will provide a supportive space to discuss various topics from a multicultural lens, which includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with your adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, family responsibilities, relationships (romantic or social),multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc.1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone! Questions? Contact The Zone at via email or call (858) 534-5553. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
WISE MIND - WISE MIND
GALBRAITH HALL 190
Emotional + Mind + Logical Mind = WISE Mind. 
WISE mind is when both parts of the mind work together in harmony. Learn how to effectively tolerate everyday stressors, communicate effectively while maintaining self-respect and relationships, and improve your relationship with your emotions while living a life in accordance to your values.
3:30pm
OUTSIDE THE BOX FORUM - 
TRANQUILITY ROOM, CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER
This informal group is a safe space for students, 
faculty, and staff of mixed/multiracial/multi ethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open and supportive, community atmosphere. This forum is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Please contact Dr. Thompson if you plan to attend. Contact: cathompson@ucsd.eduWebsite: https://caps.ucsd.edu/groups.html
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMENS CENTER
Join us for an informal conversation about our 
experiences as Black women and connect with other Black women on campus. 
Meetings are Week 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10TUE3.06
THU3.08MON3.05
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - THE GREAT HALL
Finish the week off right at the International Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy 
international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Want to treat a group? Pre-purchase tickets for your department, student organization, or team through cash or department index. Contact the email below if you are interested in pre-purchasing tickets! Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
2pm
ASIAN WOMENS FORUM - MUIR HALF DOME LOUNGE
Join us for informal conversations about our experiences as Asian women. Members determine the topics which can include: Academic stress, Family and gender roles and challenges, Cultural identity, Relationships, Career directions, Social justice concerns, and mental health and well-being. Contact: ltappero@ucsd.edu. Website: https://caps.ucsd.edu/groups.html
3pm
PEACE OF MIND- DAILY DROP-IN - GALBRAITH HALL 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but you wish to learn how to navigate them better? In the Peace of Mind workshops, you will learn how to live in the moment, manage your emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness, and identify what is really important to your life.
7pm
GRAD FORUM - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Grad Forums provide an outlet for Music Department graduate students to present individual and collaborative works on their own terms. From theatrically-oriented conceptions to virtuosic instrumental solos, this free Grad Forum highlights the artistic diversity that coexists here at UCSD.12pm
CAMPUS BLACK FORUM - BLACK 
RESOURCE CENTER
Campus Black Forum provides a space for weekly 
discussions related to events, experiences, and areas of interests that impact the Black Community at UCSD.
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
UCSD WOMEN'S CENTER SMALL 
GROUP ROOM
Join us for the conversation about our 
conversations about our experiences as gay men, and connect with other gay men on campus. This group addresses relationships, sexual health, community building and more.
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN MOVE - YOUR BODY, 
TONE YOUR MOOD - DAILY DROP -IN 
MOVE - YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MOOD - STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety, and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are provideducenmarketing@ucsd.edu
FRI3.09WED3.07THE LOFT, PC EAST 8PM ·
12pm
MUSLIM SISTERS COMMUNITY 
FORUM - ROOM 126, TMC ADMIN 
BLDG
Join us for conversations about our experiences as 
Muslim females and connect with other Muslim sisters. The forum will provide an open and 
supportive space for members to discuss their 
experiences as Muslim females at UCSD and 
within the larger sociopolitical society. Topics are determined by members, but may include: family and gender roles and challenges, cultural and religious identities, romantic relationships, discrimination, conflict resolution, well-being
2:30pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN: DE -STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Come to the Zone for a free one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs!
4pm
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY LIVING- 
DAILY DROP -IN - STUDENT HEALTH 
SERVICES
Mindfulness meditation has been shown to 
reduce emotional reactivity, improve one's ability to manage stress, anxiety and depression, and cultivate a sense of inner peace and contentment. Dr. Savaiano has 10 years of experience both practicing and teaching mindfulness meditation.
7pm
PALIMPSEST, CURATED BY ALECK 
KARIS - CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT 
HALL
The Palimpsest Ensemble present a program 
curated and conducted by Aleck Karis. The event is free for students!
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Basil sauce
6. Bee’s relative10. Adorn
14. Be ready for
15. Locality
16. Tooth discomfort17. Avoiding meat, fish and poultry19. Waiter’s aid
20. Pencil rubber
21. Nonprofessionals
23. Tear25. Passed effortlessly26. Ego
30. Fishing nets
32. Roofing goo
35. Satan’s specialty36. Complete37. Apparel
39. Put off
41. Pouch
43. Swiss song44. “Lawrence of ____”46. Contains48. Window section49. Manhattan letters50. Accompany52. Narrow board53. Female singer54. MGM lion56. President ____ Roosevelt60. Legislates65. Twelve months66. Emphasize68. Sassy69. At no time, in verse70. ____ Banks of baseball71. Jazz’s ____ Fitzgerald72. Copenhagen native73. AboundsDOWN
 1. Do roadwork2. Washstand item3. Epic
4. Formal accessories
5. Water mammal
6. Armed conflict7. Diva’s solo8. Sailor
9. Cure-all
10. Out of style
11. Light tan12. Singe13. Florida islands
18. Get up
22. Irritable
24. Corrals26. Auto27. Each
28. Flowering bush
29. Extra weight
31. Boise’s state32. ____ wave33. Sports building34. Rented again38. Lids40. Give way42. Scientist ____ Sagan45. Amaze47. Guide51. Eye part53. Major artery55. Start56. Sort57. Sock part58. English nobleman59. Eve’s home61. Land parcel62. Pine ____63. In good shape64. Visualizes67. Byron’s “before”HOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - 
$1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, 
CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments 
community in San Diego offers pet-friendly 
one and two bedroom apartment homes 
with comfortable, spacious, and bright 
open floor plans.Our community features a large sparkling swimming pool, beauti -
ful courtyards, BBQ areas, free reserved parking, on-site laundry facility, on-site management, 24 hour emergency mainte -
nance, WiFi hotspots available in common 
areas through Cox Communications......ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 - 
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, 
CA 92115. These floor plans include spa -
cious one, two and three bedrooms, some 
poolside or upgraded. Being located in 
the heart of the college area you will find shopping centers, banks, a library, schools, 
freeways and more. Enjoy amenities such as 
a refreshing Olympic sized swimming pool, 24 hour emergency maintenance, on-site 
laundry facilities, WIFI hotspots in the com -
mon areas through Cox Communications, a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, 
and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 
Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE 
assigned parking, a refreshing pool and 
BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emer -gency maintenance, and a courtyard foun -
tain. We hope you will call or stop by and 
we look forward to making The Diplomat 
your new home!....ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds for more information
AUTO
2017 Ram 1500. San Diego, Ca 92111. Driving computer,Cloth 40/20/40 Bench Seat,GVWR: 6800 pounds,730CCA 
Maintenance-Free Battery,Integrated Voice 
Command w/Bluetooth,GPS Antenna 
Input,Chrome Door Handles,ANTI-LOCK 
BRAKING SYSTEM And Driveline Traction 
Control,Manual A-c,Cargo Lamp w/High 
Mount Stop Light,Tires: P265/70R17 BSW AS,Chrome Grille.....ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
2017 Ford F150. San Diego, Ca 92110. 4D 
SuperCrew, Gasoline! Turbocharged! When was the last time you smiled as you turned 
the ignition key? Feel it again with this rock 
solid 2017 Ford F-150. This wonderful Ford 
is 1 of the most sought after pre-owned 
vehicles on the market because it NEVER lets owners down. Give us a call, we are Fast, Friendly and Fair,, XLT, , Stock #: 300790, VIN Number: 1FTEW1CG5HKC65533...ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
2018 Ram 1500. San Diego, Ca 92108. RAM 
1500 LARAMIE CREW CAB 4X4 5’7 BOX” , Crew Cab, Regular Unleaded, San Diego’s 
Truck CenterPrice includes the following 
rebates and incentives: $500 - 2018 Chrysler 
Capital 2018 Bonus Cash **CJ5 (exclu. 
GL). Exp. 01/31/2018, $4,250 - 2018 Retail Consumer Cash 71CJ1. Exp. 01/31/2018, 
,Convenience Group,Trailer Tow Mirror and 
Brake Control Group,,Protection Group,5.7-
Liter V8 HEMI® MDS VVT Engine,Uconnect® 4C NAV with 8.4-Inch Display,ParkSense®....
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationBIKES
Saris 3 Bicycle Rack (Bones RS). San Diego, CA 92101. Like new. Used only 2-3 times max! Moving must sell. Specifications: Ratching system eliminates straps and fits wide range of vehichles, Rubber-coated clips and steel-belted bands secure the rack to your vehicle, Pivoting anti-sways 
and hold downs easily adjust to secure your 
vehicle, integrated locking system adds 
security, Easy to load up to three bikes, Designed for a family of bikes - from small -
est to the biggest.......ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Vintage 1950 Women’s Beach Cruiser 26” 
Columbia Bicycle. San Diego, CA 92116. We 
did an overhaul of the bicycle and cleaned/
greased everything. The bicycle was sand -
ed down and completely repainted with a 
custom-made professional paint task (Blue 
pearl / white combination). We had the 
gear, handlebars, and some various metal pieces rechromed. Included new white wall tires, brand-new customized metal grips, 
new white pedals, new white seat, new decals, brand-new front fender light, and 
so on.At this time, the bike requires some 
TLC (absolutely nothing significant).....ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
HARO “BACKTRAIL X 1 “BMX BIKE. San Diego, 
CA 92117. 19” center bar PRO FRAME,195 x 
20” BMX Wheels has Self Lubricating Sealed 
Bearings, Oversize Axles, Free Spinning Rear gear, Hand Brake 360 degree Rotating 
Handle Bars, Super Grip BMX Pedals, 
Foot Pegs can be mounted to axles, ask -
ing $250.00 Cash or Bank Check or Paypal 
account any questions email or call me Curt (858) 336-3227....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
University City Mobil 
is looking for a 
prompt and courteous 
individual for part-
time cashier work. 
Apply in person 
3861 Governor Drive 
San Diego 92122Administrative 
Assistant Needed.
A Fast Growing company is 
currently looking for an 
upbeat individual to join 
their growing company . 
The ideal candidate must 
be detail oriented with 
the ability to make quick 
decisions and communicate 
effectively computer skills 
helpful,($500) weekly , to 
join our team.
Please respond via 
email and include 
your Resume or CV 
with a cover letter to 
robertstoll32@gmail.
com.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
off of three hits. The Tritons finally 
scored in the fifth inning with 2 
runs: 1 by junior right fielder Zander 
Clarke and the other by freshman 
designated hitter Blake Baumgartner. The Broncos’ first lead would extend to 
the end of the game. Cal Poly Pomona 
racked up 4 more runs by the ninth 
inning; the Tritons were unable to 
respond, scoring only 1 run.
Game 2
In a tight second contest, the 
Tritons were able to hold o ff the 
Broncos to win 6–4. Much like the 
first game, this game started o ff very 
slowly; the game was scoreless going into the sixth inning. In the sixth, UCSD recorded the first points of the 
game (a run by freshman shortstop 
Shay Whitcomb) and took a 1–0 
lead. In the next inning, the Tritons lit up the scoreboard, earning 4 runs off of 3 hits and 1 error. Cal Poly 
Pomona, however, mounted a resilient 
comeback attempt, taking the game all 
the way down to the ninth inning. At the top of the ninth, the Tritons were up 6–4. The momentum seemed to be 
in the Broncos’ favor as they had just scored 3 runs in the ninth; for Cal Poly Pomona, the game was still within reach. UCSD junior pitcher Preston Mott put an end to the Broncos’ 
comeback, striking out their last hitter 
and sealing a UCSD victory.
UCSD will finish out the series 
against Cal Poly Pomona with two 
more games against it this weekend. 
Next week, the Tritons head to Rohnert Park, CA to play Sonoma State University.
This week, the UC San Diego 
baseball team opened its series against 
California State Polytechnic University 
Pomona. Of the two games played — 
one on Thursday and one on Friday 
— the Tritons lost the first and won 
the second. In an upset performance, 
the No. 14-ranked Cal Poly Pomona 
shocked the No. 7-ranked Tritons, operating well against a higher-seeded opponent. A fter these two games, 
UCSD’s record moved to 10–5 (6–4 
in California Collegiate Athletic 
Association standings).
Game 1
UCSD started the series with a 
disappointing 8–3 loss. Despite the end score, the opening game started off slowly. In the first three innings, 
the score remained 0–0: The Tritons 
had 2 hits, while the Broncos had 1. 
However, in the fourth inning, Cal 
Poly Pomona blew up, scoring 4 runs UCSD Splits Series Start
The Tritons had a rough Game 1, allowing eight runs 
BYWesley Xiao
Staff writeR
Wesley Xiao  wex057@ucsd.eduThe UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team started o ff the 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association tournament on Tuesday as they hosted Sonoma State University at RIMAC Arena and comfortably won 69–52 to move on to the next round. 
The Tritons faced the Wildcats of 
California State University, Chico on 
Friday in the semi finals at California 
State Polytechnic University Pomona’s 
Kellogg Arena. Once again, UCSD 
blew out its competition with a 
67–48 win to earn one of two spots 
in Saturday’s final. California State 
University, Humboldt found itself with 
the second spot for the final and UCSD 
came up short in Saturday’s final as the 
Lumberjacks stunned the number one 
seeded Tritons with a game–winning 3-pointer. 
Vs Sonoma State
As the number one seed in the 
tournament, UCSD hosted its first 
game against Sonoma State and after beating them twice already 
throughout the regular season, and it was no di fferent in the win-or-go-
home game. The Tritons overpowered 
their opponents, 69–52 as they eased their way to the next round of the 
tournament behind the 22 points and 
10 rebounds from sophomore forward 
Mikayla Williams. 
After one quarter, only 5 points 
separated the sides. However, the 
second quarter had UCSD written all 
over it with a 12-to-5 point discrepancy. 
The Tritons continued to extend their 
lead in the last two quarters and had no 
problem closing the game out. 
Junior guard Kayla Sato added 17 
points, 4 rebounds, and 4 assists, while senior forward Dalayna Sampton 
contributed with 11 points and 10 
rebounds.
A big di fference in the game came 
to be the 3-point shots as UCSD shot the 3 at 46 percent while holding 
Sonoma State to 10 percent. Four of 
the 6 successful 3-pointers from the 
Tritons came from junior guard Joleen 
Yang ,  w ho  fin ishe d  w it h  1 2  p oi nt s .  
Vs Chico State 
UCSD came out the gates with 
conviction and did not let up as it 
earned a spot in Saturday’s final with 
a dominating win over Chico State, 
67–48. Sato led the charge for the Tritons with 22 points, 4 rebounds, and 
3 assists. 
The Triton defense made the 
difference in the game as it held the 
Wildcats to less than 50 points and to 
only 32 percent shooting. 
In the second quarter, the Tritons 
exploded on o ffense as they scored 28 
points to the Wildcats’ 14 o ff of 66.7 
percent shooting, including 4 of 7 from the three point line. The third quarter 
was much of the same as UCSD scored 
21 points while shooting 77 percent 
and outclassing its opponents. 
Those two quarters put a bow on 
the game as going to the fourth UCSD 
held a 32-point lead and had the game 
all wrapped up.
Incredibly, the Tritons went ice 
cold in the fourth quarter and only 
managed a single point o ff a free throw, 
while giving up 14 points. However, 
the lead was in no danger as they still 
won by 19 points.
Vs Humboldt State
Only seconds away. A few 
seconds and a Jovanah Arrington 
3-pointer separated the Tritons from 
a conference title. A fter a back and 
forth game, a game–winning 3-pointer stabbed UCSD in the heart for a 76–75 
loss in the CCAA tournament final. 
With an 8–point lead in the final 
3:17 of the game, the Tritons could not 
hang on to their lead as their o ffense 
could not get anything going with only 
three points in those final minutes of 
the game. In that same amount of time, the Lumberjacks went on a 12–3 run to 
earn the title. 
UCSD did not start the game on 
the right foot as Humboldt could simply not miss from anywhere on 
the court. Humboldt shot 62.5 percent 
from the field, including a scorching 
66.7 percent (6–9) from the 3-point line to hold a 27–18 lead going into the 
second quarter. A fter only shooting 30 
percent from the field in the first, the 
Tritons came back strong in the second 
as they shot 50 percent, while holding the Lumberjacks to 33 percent. With 
the defense holding its own in the 
second, UCSD went into hal ftime with 
a four point de ficit. 
Coming out of the half, the Tritons 
had another strong quarter defensively 
and managed to hold a 2-point lead 
going into the final quarter. The lead 
extended early in the fourth, but it was 
not to be for the Tritons in the end. 
Sato had a game–high 22 points, 
while Sampton and Williams added a 
combined 25 points and 31 rebounds. 
Both Sampton and Williams were 
named to the CCAA All–Tournament 
Team. 
Despite the loss, the Tritons’ 
season is still alive as they will likely be competing in the NCAA Division II Tournament West Region. Check the 64–team bracket posted on the NCAA 
website for the final matchups.BY Daniel Hernandez
SENIOR STAFF WRITERTritons Drop CCAA Title Game
Despite leading for much of the 4th quarter, UCSD choked down the stretch.
Daniel Hernandez  DAH043@ucsd.edu
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 5, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team defeated California 
State University, Stanislaus (82–
81), California State University, 
Chico (66–49), and California State Polytechnic University Pomona (68–66) to take the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association title for the 
second straight year. The Tritons 
finish the season with an overall 
record of 21–10, and a 15–7 record in 
CCAA conference play. 
Vs Stanislaus State
The Tritons defeated the Warriors 
with a miracle 3-pointer by junior 
guard Christian Bayne in double 
overtime. Both teams were evenly matched, with both teams unable to hold onto their leads throughout 
regulation. Near the end of the game, 
UCSD found itself down 2 points with 17 seconds remaining. Bayne was fouled and sank both of his shots from the line, tying the game up at 64–64. 
The Tritons locked in defensively and 
prevented the Warriors from scoring. 
Both teams stayed locked in for 
the first overtime — neither the 
Tritons nor the Warriors could find 
good shots, and the period came 
down to free throws again. When the Warriors were up 71–73 with five seconds left in overtime, Bayne 
was fouled and sent to the line. As has become custom, Bayne knocked down both free throws and tied the game at 73–73. On the other end, 
senior forward Kenny Fraser blocked 
a Warrior 3-point attempt to send the game to double overtime. The second 
overtime was a thriller. The teams 
traded baskets back and forth until the final minute when UCSD faced a 
potential exit from the tournament. The Tritons were down 79–81 and the 
clock was ticking. As the final seconds 
ticked away, sophomore forward Scott Everman missed a 3-pointer that was then rebounded by Bayne, who then launched a 3-pointer with 
three seconds remaining in the game. 
He sank the 3-pointer, giving the Tritons an 82–81 victory. 
Junior swingman Christian Oshita 
finished with a career-high 29 points 
and also notched 11 rebounds and 
4 assists. Bayne had 25 points and 8 rebounds. 
Vs Chico State
UCSD blew out Chico State in the 
semifinals of the tournament. The 
first half started slow, and it looked like a competitive game. However, the Tritons turned up the heat in the 
second half and coasted to a 66–49 
victory. 
The Tritons held the lead for 
almost the entire game while the 
Wildcats had their biggest lead (one 
point) for about 37 seconds in the first half. For the rest of the game, UCSD was in control. Their lead was 
challenged a couple of times in the 
second half when the Wildcats had 
scoring runs and cut the deficit to 3. In spite of this, the Tritons stayed calm under pressure and forced key 
turnovers. These turnovers led to a 
high number of 3-pointers for the 
Tritons, which helped them quickly rebuild the lead. In the final three 
Men's  basketball
minutes of regulation, UCSD grew 
an 11-point lead to 17 and defeated Chico State, 66–49.
Oshita finished the game with 
20 points and 9 rebounds. Redshirt freshman guard Mikey Howell chipped in with 11 points and 3 
assists. As a team, the Tritons were 
a perfect 15–15 from the free throw line. 
Vs Cal Poly Pomona
At Pomona, the Tritons faced 
the Broncos in the final game of the 
CCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament. The Broncos charged out of the gates 
in the opening minutes and quickly 
gained a 7–2 lead. UCSD responded 
with 3-pointers from Bayne and senior guard Anthony Ballestero. Howell and senior forward Michael Shoemaker snatched 1 steal apiece 
and the Tritons converted both 
opportunities o ff the turnover. With 
the game tied at 17–17 a fter a Broncos 
dunk, Fraser made a layup to put the 
Tritons up 2. From there, the Tritons only allowed 4 more Bronco points in 
the first half while scoring 8 of their 
own, going into halft ime with a 28–21 
lead. 
UCSD demolished Cal Poly 
Pomona for 15 out of the 20 minutes of the second half. The Tritons made 
play after play, scoring from all over 
the floor. They quickly gained a 
19-point lead within the first five 
minutes of the half. Over time, the Broncos slowly chipped away at the 
lead. The game picked up in the final 
minutes of regulation. Up 11 points, 
the Tritons looked to maintain their lead. However, with two minutes left  
to go, 2 consecutive turnovers led to Bronco baskets, and UCSD’s lead was cut to 6. The game slowed down and 
both teams turned up the defensive pressure. The Broncos intentionally 
fouled players while pushing the ball hard on the o ffensive end. Missed free 
throws almost cost the Tritons the game, as the Broncos were converting 
most of their shot attempts. With the three seconds left in regulation, 
Cal Poly Pomona hit a 3-pointer to bring the game to 67–66. Oshita was 
sent to the line, where he split a pair 
of free throws to give UCSD a 68–66 lead. The final buzzer sounded, and 
UCSD claimed its second consecutive 
CCAA championship title. 
Three Tritons scored in double 
figures for UCSD: Bayne (16), Oshita 
(10), and Ballestero (12). As a team, UCSD made 4 more 3-pointers than 
Cal Poly Pomona and shot 47.8 
percent (22–46) from the field. 
UCSD will now advance to the 
NCAA Division II tournament, 
where they have played four times. 
In the last two years, the Tritons have reached the Sweet 16 both times. Matchups were announced on the NCAA website at 7:30 p.m. on March 
4. BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports Editor
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
On Friday evening, UC San 
Diego hosted its first ever Big West 
Conference event since the institution’s confirmation to join Division I back 
in November. Although the rest of the athletic teams will not compete in the Big West until 2020, the men’s 
volleyball team’s prior Division-I 
standing allowed a smoother transition and immediate participation in the 2018 season.
Despite the university’s excitement 
toward the conference opener, UCSD lost in 3 sets to 15th-ranked UC Santa Barbara by scores of 20–25, 21–25, and 20–25. The sweep forced the Tritons 
to a 0–2 start in the Big West a fter 
dropping an extremely close, 5-set match to the Gauchos just one week ago.
Tanner Sy ftestad, senior captain 
and opposite hitter, produced 16 kills in 30 attempts to accumulate a team-
high of 16 points, as well as 6 digs on 
the side. Fellow senior setter Milosh Stojcic recorded 20 assists in addition to his 5 digs.
The Tritons led in kills and attempts 
in the first 2 sets, but 13 combined 
errors negatively impacted attack percentages of .188 and .235 compared to UCSB’s .269 and .250, respectively.
Sophomore setter Connor 
Walbrecht listed 10 assists, 3 digs, 2 block assists, and the only service ace for the Tritons of the night. Junior outside hitter Nathan Thalken 
followed behind Sy ftestad with 7 kills 
in 12 attempts and 1 block assist for a total of 7.5 points.
Overall, UCSB prevailed in multiple categories including team blocks, assists, service aces, and kills, contributing to their defeat over the Tritons. UCSB closed the door 
efficiently in the third set, controlling 
the lead early on,with zero tied scores 
and zero lead changes.
February was a rough month for 
the squad as it lost 5 of 6 games, 4 of which came in a row. The Tritons 
look to improve their record with the fresh start of a new month and the beginning of conference play.
Vs Ball State
In a non-conference matchup on 
Saturday evening, UCSD lost its third match in a row, collapsing to No. 11 Ball State University in three straight 
sets. All set scores came within 3 
points — 23–25, 22–25, and 22–25— in which the Tritons could not seem to hang on. The first set was by far the most 
competitive, consisting of 15 tie scores 
and five lead changes. Each team 
continued to rebuttal until the score lay 
at 16–14, UCSD with the advantage. A promising 2-point lead quickly lost 
momentum as the Cardinals answered 
back to even the score at 19. Moments later, BSU acquired the edge and never looked back, completing the set-win on a service error by the Tritons.
Freshman outside hitter Wyatt 
Harrison and Sy ftestad both 
documented a team high of 12 kills. Syftestad added 4 digs, and 3 block 
assists to compile 13.5 total points for  the night.
In a second set filled with 7 tie 
scores, the Tritons failed to gain rhythm. Statistically, UCSD played its 
best ball in the third set, performing 
an attack percentage of .357 with only 3 errors. However, a stunning BSU attack percentage of .407 diminished  
any hope for the Tritons to push the 
match to a fourth set.
Sophomore libero Ryan Lew 
collected 11 digs while Stojcic tallied 
35 assists in 72 attempts. Redshirt 
sophomore outside hitter, Xander Jimenez also contributed 6 kills and 3 digs.
Another tally in the loss column 
pushes the Tritons to an overall 8–9. With hopes of snapping a rough losing streak in the midst of the 2018 campaign, UCSD will face the 
University of Southern California 
on Wednesday, March 7 at 7 p.m. in RIMAC arena.
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY WILHELM // UC SAN DIEGO PHOTO BY  HENRY CHEN
volleyballTritons Drop Two 
Against Top Ranked 
Universities
UC San Diego, after losing seven of its last 
eight games, looks to get back on track 
against USC on Wednesday, Mar. 7
by Madeline Lewis  //  Staff WriterTritons Wins CCAA 
Tournament For 
Second-Straight Year
UCSD reclaimed its throne thanks to some thrillers.
BY Madeline  Lewis
Staff WriterUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Tennis
M Tennis
M Volleyball
M Tennis
Softball3/6
3/73/73/83/95:30 PM
3 PM7 PM
9 AM
1 PMvs. Furmanvs. Hawaii Pacificvs. USCvs. Boston Universityvs. Cal State East Bay