For the 36th Sun God Festival, art -
ists feature blackbear, Cuco, Sir Sly, and 
Robotaki. This year, it will take place 
on April 28th at 12 p.m.
Associated Student’s Concert & 
Event’s Festival Head, Natalie Koe, spoke to the UCSD Guardian about the direction of the lineup for this year. 
“Our team sought to have a lineup 
that would appeal to as many of our students as possible by booking from different genres of music, ” Koe said.  
“Just from W ave 1, we have blackbear who is a great blend of hip hop and pop, Sir Sly who is a coolalternative rock band, Robotaki who is an elec -
tronic dance music artist, and Cuco who gives a more dream pop and Latin feel. ”
Artists are selected through a 
lengthy process involving artist re -
search, rankings, and quotes. The first 
step is to create a “master list” of po -
tential artists. The list is created from a 
compilation of information taken from ASCE entertainment surveys and re -
views of agency rosters, which allows ASCE to access quotes from potential artists. The quotes are then assessed 
whether or not to be fitting within the 
budget.
“From there, we sort of rank out 
the artists that we’ d like to see across each of the slots. Then we start reach -
ing out to agencies to get quotes and availabilities for our artists, ” Koe ex -
plained. “ This is when the list really 
starts to narrow. Artists can be easily removed from the list if they are out of our budget or simply unavailable due to another booking. ”
The final decision of the line up in -
cludes a myriad of factors, such as art -
ist popularity and career trajectory. 
“From the available artists within 
our budget, our team has lengthy dis -
cusses about who we should [send] of -
fers to fi rst, ” Koe described. “[We] take 
into account their social media follow -
ing, number of plays on streaming sites VOLUME 51, ISSUE 23  MONDA Y , APRIL 16, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Man Convicted 
of Killing T wo UCSD Medical 
Former marine Jason King was found 
guilty of gross vehicular manslaughter in 
Ex-marine Jason Riley King was 
sentenced to seventeen years in state 
prison nearly two years after he 
killed two UC San Diego medical 
students in a head-on DUI crash in May 2015. 
On May 16, 2015, five medical 
students were in a Prius heading home at 1:30 a.m. when King’s Ford F-350 truck collided into the victims’ vehicle on the opposite side of the road of State Route 163 near 
Mission Valley. Due to the crash, 
the Prius’s owner Madison Cornwell and passenger Anne Li Baldock were killed. 
“Two young women who we 
should be calling ‘doctor’ are gone, ” Superior Court Judge Joan Weber said. 
The women’s classmates, Jared 
Molitoris, Yuki Iizuka, and Stosh Ozog, who were also passengers in the car, suffered from injuries. Iizuka spent three weeks in a coma 
due to a brain injury, and according 
to his mother Maki Iizuka, now suffers from memory loss. 
In January of 2018, King was 
convicted of gross vehicular 
manslaughter. According to a 
previous article from the UCSD Guardian, the San Diego District Attorney’s Office confirmed that 
his maximum sentence would 
be seventeen years under his manslaughter charges. However, “King would have faced 30 years to life, should he have been convicted 
of murder. ”
King’s defense attorney and DUI 
lawyer Rich Hutton claimed that his 
client “would have [pleaded] guilty 
a long time ago if the prosecution 
had not charged him with murder. Jason King has always taken full responsibility for what he did. ” He described King as one of his most 
remorseful clients. “He prays for 
the victims and their families on a daily basis. ” 
“There will never be a day that I 
don’t hate myself, ” King reportedly said in court. 
San Diego Deputy District 
Attorney Cally Bright argued that 
King was kicked out of a bar the 
night of the collision. Although his friend had warned him not to drive while intoxicated, King did so 
anyway with a blood alcohol content 
between 0.15 and 0.20 percent. The legal BAC limit in all fifty states is 0.08 percent. 
The death of the two medical 
students inspired several of their classmates to pursue lobbying Assembly Bill 1221, or the Responsible Beverage Service 
Training Program Act of 2017, a bill 
CAMPUS
BY  Madeline  Leon
 STAFF Writer
Sun God Artists Released, Director Discusses Selection Process
Students in SIxth College encouraging people to vote during the A.S. elections. Photo by Jerry Zhou // UCSD Guardian  
See SENTENCING,  page 3This past Friday, April 13, the A.S. Election 
Committee announced the 2018 election 
results for the 2018-19 A.S. Council. Along 
with the winners, the committee also reported 
on the referendums in question regarding the 
student transportation fee, the Graduate Student 
Association, and the California Public Interest Research Group.
This year’s undergraduates yielded a 27.69 
percent voter turnout while graduates turned out with 19.75 percent, with a 26.12 percent combined 
voter turnout. Campaigning as an uncontested 
slate, EMPOWER’s candidates were elected into office, with Kiara Gomez serving as the 2018-19 A.S. council president, Daron Woods as vice 
president of campus affairs, Caroline Siegel Singh 
as vice president external, Kenji Asakura, Emma Potter, and Daniela Salazar as campus wide 
senators, Kelly Morris for off-campus, Sabrina 
Callihan for social sciences, and Johnny Echavarria for arts and humanities.
Along with announcing the newly elected 
A.S. Council and college councils, A.S. Election Manager Michelle Nguyen reported the results for 
the proposed referendums.
The student transportation fee referendum, 
which called for an increase to the current fee by $11.56 as well as a six-year extension, passed 5,808 
to 2,270 votes. The increase will allow students to 
continue to use San Diego’s public transportation 
services such as Metropolitan Transit System buses and trolleys, which will also allow students to 
use the trolley when the rail is extended to reach 
campus. In addition, students will be allowed to use a mobile application for their U-Pass without 
the need for a sticker on their student IDs.
Other referendums in question included the 
Graduate Student Association, which also called for an increase, but was not passed with 804 to 
429 votes. If passed, the referendum would have increased the GSA fee by $19.90 for each graduate student, raising the fee from $12.00 to $31.90, a 
165 percent total increase. 29 percent of the fees 
would have been used towards financial aid for graduate students with the remaining 71 percent 
to have been used for student programming, such 
as support for graduate student organizations as well as events. 
Lastly, the CALPIRG voluntary fee referendum 
passed alongside the student transportation fee. The referendum will give students an option 
via Student Business Services to contribute to 
CALPIRG and once students opt in, the fee will be collected quarterly for the duration of the By  Armonie Mendez   Associate News EditorA.S. ELECTIONS
CalPIRG and MTS Referenda Pass, GSA Fee Increase Fails
The lineup for the music festival currently features blackbear, Sir Sly, Cuco, and Robotaki.PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
INTERSECTIONAL 
FEMINISM
“Intersectionality means 
championing inclusivity and 
understanding that other social 
movements such as Black 
Lives Matter play a direct role 
in the feminist movement [...] 
If it isn’t intersectional, it isn’t 
feminism.” 
CUL TURAL APPROPRIATION
EARTH  THOUGHTSHistory  of  Imperialism
LIGESTYLE  STAFF  FREESTYLEOPINION,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE,  PAGE  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“China’s efficiency in building 
infrastructure is something 
that the United States should 
study, as their current low 
spending only results in 
low-quality infrastructure. 
Duplicating China’s success 
would boost economic 
growth, access to markets 
and services, and create 
more jobs.”Features,   PAGE  6 
MONDAY
H 17 L 12
WEDNESDAY
H 19 L 13
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
TUESDAY
H 19 L 13
THURSDAY
H 17 L 12
CC AND UC...................2
EDITORIAL BOARD......4
CLASS ENROLLMENT..7
MUIR MUSICAL............9
BASEBALL...................16MEDICAL SCHOOL
See SUN GOD,  page 3See ELECTIONS,  page 3
Marcus Thuillier
Around the Globe
 PAGE 4BY Tanaya Sawant
Staff Writer  California community college 
students will be guaranteed admission 
to the Universities of California 
beginning in fall of 2019 if they meet certain course requirements, the 
University of California Office of the 
President announced on Wednesday. The memorandum of understanding 
titled “Enhance Student Transfer” 
between the two public education systems states that in order to receive 
guaranteed admission, transfer 
students must complete one of 21 different transfer pathways, each of 
which contain a set of courses based 
on the pathway’s corresponding major, and maintain a minimum 
GPA.
This new program was modeled 
after the Associate Degree for Transfer, established by state 
legislation in 2010 that connected the California Community Colleges 
system with the California State University system, and will similarly 
result in community college students receiving an ADT to transfer to the 
UC system. While transfer students 
may not be accepted to their preferred UC campuses, students 
meeting the requirements outlined 
in the memorandum will be offered admission to at least one of the nine 
undergraduate schools.
According to the memorandum, 
this new agreement is intended to improve both the accessibility of the 
UC system to transfer students and their ability to graduate on time.
“First, it provides a clear pathway 
for [California community college] students who wish to transfer to 
[the UC system], guaranteeing these 
students an opportunity to obtain a baccalaureate degree if they meet 
clearly articulated requirements, ” 
it reads. “Second, it aims to ensure that once [in the UC system], these 
students have taken courses and met 
the requirements deemed by the University’s faculty to best prepare them to succeed and earn their four-year degree. ”
Although UC San Diego does not, 
six other UC campuses already offer Transfer Admissions Guarantees which allow students to negotiate 
agreements of guaranteed admissions 
with their campus specifically. These TAGs will not be affected by the 
memorandum.
California Community Colleges 
Chancellor Eloy Ortiz Oakley claims that community college transfers are 
just as capable of succeeding at UC campuses as students who begin as 
freshmen, so the memorandum will 
allow more California residents to receive undergraduate degrees.
“Community college students who 
transfer to the UC campuses do as well, or sometimes better academically, as 
students who start their studies at 
a UC [school], ” Oakley said. “This agreement, when fully implemented, 
will help more Californians from all 
backgrounds realize the promise of higher education and move our state forward. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
third-year transfer student Keaton 
McKoy voiced his support for the 
memorandum based on the current conditions.
“Community college students 
have a different level of focus and maturity, so they should be awarded 
opportunities such as that, ” McKoy 
told the UCSD Guardian. 
According to the UCSD 
Institutional Research statistics on transfer students, 53 percent of the  18,510 applicants in 2016 
were admitted to UCSD, and of the 
2,884 who actually chose to attend, 91 percent came from California 
community colleges. 
The agreement will culminate at 
the end of the 2021-22 academic year. 
Like  us  on  Facebook
@UCSDGUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
@ucsdguardian
Follo w us o n all platfo rms! @ucsdasceCalifornia Community College Students to Be Guaranteed UC Admission if  Meet Certain Standards
The chancellors of the California Community College system and University of California signed a memorandum of UCSD
BY Lauren  Holt
News editor
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Why go to Coachella when you can spend the day creating this beautiful paper.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Caroline Lee
Marketing Directors
Melissa Palafox  
Training and Development Manager
Jordan Packer
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Sam Velazquez
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Armonie Mendez
Chris Robertson
Alex Wu
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Chloe Esser
Maya Kleiman
Annika Olives
Brittney Lu
Francesca Hummler
Aleya Zenieris
Tina Chen
Lorena Espinoza
Hojune Kwak
Miguel Sheker
David Juarez
Lisa  Chik
Alicia HoEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports EditorFeatures Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorAssociate Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorAssociate Design Editor
Multimedia Editors
Data Visualization Editor
Art EditorCopy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Aleya Zenieris, Tina Chen, Z.Y Lin, Kristy Liou
Editorial Assistants
Daisy Scott,
Revekka Gershovich, Emily CollinsCopy Readers
Rachael Alberts, Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani SnankarFLYERS By Michi Sora
 Lauren  Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edufollow  us  
on
        twitter@ UCSD
        GUARDIANstudent’s enrollment unless they 
choose to opt out of the pledge 
later on. The collected fees will be 
used and directed toward allowing CALPIRG to hire full-time staff to support lobbying efforts and aid in 
decision-making so that students 
can work alongside decision-makers in Sacramento and Washington D.C.
The newly elected A.S. council representatives will begin their 
terms before the start of next year.
that is meant to potentially prevent 
such DUI crashes from occurring. 
A training program that was once 
voluntary would now be a required four-hour training course for alcohol servers on how to identify 
and react to a customer who they 
believe has had too much to drink. The course would be retaken every three years. 
Assembly Bill 1221 “would 
provide that [a Responsible Beverage Serving] training course include information on, among other things, state laws and regulations relating to 
alcoholic beverage control and the 
impact of alcohol on the body. ” 
After two years of lobbying and 
being vetoed by Jerry Brown once in 2016 for technical purposes, the bill was approved on Oct. 15, 2017 and will go into effect July 2021. 
UCSD medical students Nicole 
Herrick and Daniel Spinosa were part of the team that lobbied the bill. They were working with Dr. 
Robert Hertzka, a professor of the 
UCSD Medical School who has been teaching health policy courses for over 30 years. 
Determined to “make California 
roads safer, ” Herrick and Spinosa began working in 2015 with the California Medical Association, representatives from the California 
Highway Patrol, and several state 
representatives, one of them being San Diego Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher. 
“If it wasn’t for the support and guidance from her and her wonderful staff, AB 1221 would 
have been little more than a good 
idea, ” Herrick told the Guardian. 
However, Herrick admits that 
their discussion with representatives 
did not immediately lead to their 
idea of the training program. 
“Our first idea, which will 
hopefully one day become a reality, was to lower the legal driving [BAC] 
to 0.05. Many other countries are 
0.05 or 0.03!” 
Dr. Hertzka notes that it is a 
“great feeling of how [his students] 
come up with something meaningful 
out of tragedy. ” and Y ouTube views, media and press, 
... number of times they’re listed on our 
ASCE survey, other festival plays, and 
where we think they’ll be careerwise 
— ‘Do they have a positive trajectory?’ 
— by the time Sun God rolls around, 
and more. ”
As mentioned before, the artists 
come from a wide range of genres. From 
Los Angeles, Matthew Tyler Musto, or blackbear, is an American songwriter, 
producer, singer, and recording artist. 
In 2015, his lead single “IDFC” o ff of 
“Deadroses” charted in the top 20 of 
Billboard and rhythm and blues charts. 
From Hawthorne, California, Cuco is 
a Chicano solo artist. Cuco released 
his first mixtape “W annabewithu” in 
2016 which included sounds from 
lo-fi synths, punchy drums, and lead 
trumpets. From Los Angeles, Sir Sly is an American indie rock band that rose 
to popularity with “Gold” in 2013. O ff 
of their debut album, their song “Y ou 
Haunt Me” reached #14 on Billboard’s 
Alternative Album chart. From Mon -
treal, Quebec, Preston Anthony Chin, professionally known as Robotaki, is a 
Canadian DJ and producer. He has re -
mixed songs such as The Chainsmok -
ers’ “Closer, ” and Porter Robinson and Madeon’s “Shelter. ”
Earl W arren College junior Eric 
Truong, although excited for the art -
ists that have been announced thus 
far, would like to see an even greater 
variety. 
“I’m actually really excited to see 
blackbear, ” Truong said, “I think I 
would wanna see some bigger names. 
To be honest, I think it’d be cool if there were some indie bands also. Maybe 
some more hip hop like Kendrick La -
mar or something. ” 
Thurgood Marshall College senior 
Rekha Nagarajan looks forward to 
more than just the artists at Sun God. 
“I’ve wanted to see blackbear for a 
while, so I’m excited, ” Nagarajan stated. 
“It would be really cool to see a photo 
booth or more sets ups like Vita Coco 
to make Sun God seem more like a fes -
tival. ”
The rest of the lineup and the food 
vendors present at Sun God Festival 
2018 will be revealed soon. This article 
will be updated as more information is released.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
The Empower Slate Swept the A.S. Election More Artists Will Be Named in the Coming Weeks
▶ ELECTIONS, from page 1 ▶ SUN GOD, from page 1
Medical Students Lobbied to Pass a Bill Meant to Reduce DUIs
▶ SENTENCING, from page 1Armonie  Mendez   aemendez@ucsd.edu
Madeline  Leon   m7leon@ucsd.edu Tanaya  Sawant   tsawant@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTSON
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Another election cycle has come and gone, 
offering a fresh chance to poke and prod at the 
issues facing the student body. The EMPOWER candidates consistently focused on basic needs and transparency from the Associated Students, yet they conveniently forgot to mention a topic that the independent candidates made central to their platforms: slates. Slates take the place of political parties on University of California campuses where collections of students lock arms to prepare for brutal campaigning seasons. Slates, however, do not serve to align the interests of the voting body at UC San Diego with the candidates that best represent them, as a political party would. Slates instead provide more tangible benefits to the candidates themselves than they do for the constituency. Not only would forgoing the slate system in the future help level elections between independent and slated candidates, it would allow for a more direct representation of the student body’s interests. 
 To be fair, electing a slate with 
a history of campaigning and a body of experienced candidates does come with some perks. A.S. Senate is notoriously unclear about its operating procedures, so slated candidates rely on each other to share their experiences. In this way, they can diversify their institutional knowledge to better prepare for the task. 
 The benefit of slates for candidates 
themselves, though, greatly outweighs the benefits for the student body. For the purpose of campaigning, prospective candidates benefit significantly more from the collective effort of running with a slate than running as an independent. First of all, candidates can pool their campaign funds. Candidates cannot accept donations, so having the financial support of nearly a dozen people goes a long way in affording posters, T-shirts, and the occasional food item that happens to be located next to an informational booth. Also, slated candidates can more easily create a recognizable brand. The network of interpersonal relationships at the slate’s disposal increases as its numbers rise; every student organization or social circle connected to a slated individual contributes to that slate’s overall advertising potential. Aside from that, an individual running as an independent can only flyer and campaign so much, whereas a slate can rotate shifts to have a consistent presence leading up to elections. Rather than personally engaging with constituents, a slate can diffuse their message into the campus psyche by barraging students with subliminal poster placements and by parroting their message at passer-bys from the start of Spring Quarter. In a system where slates are the norm, the election cycle becomes more about who has the strongest marketing strategy— a contest not easily won by independents. 
In a competition between slates, the playing 
fields are basically even in terms of marketing, but brand recognition invariably eclipses the platforms that constituents expect their elected officials to address. A.S. elections abound with rules and regulations, trials and tribulations — all meant to secure a delusion that candidates win based on their platforms alone. However, elections will always be skewed toward whoever happens to fit into a slate if they continue to disregard the advantages that come with the slate system.  
Editorial Board Cultural appropriation is one of the most 
contentious social practices up for debate in the 21st century. Unfortunately, this issue is 
a complex topic that can bring out a variety 
of emotions from all sides of the argument. 
Traditionally, cultural appropriation is when 
a previously asserted dominant group takes a piece of a marginalized culture without 
giving any consideration to the history behind 
this cultural practice. The process depends 
upon an unequal power structure between the 
two groups, one that stems from America’s intervention in other regions. The imbalance 
of power that allows cultural appropriation to 
occur is an extension of a history of imperialism 
that global superpowers have practiced 
throughout history.
Imperialism is the process by which a 
“civilized” society asserts dominance over a “developing” society. The civilizing society 
always hides an ideology of racial and cultural 
superiority behind a disingenuous concern for the natives in the developing society. Western 
imperialism, in this case, stems from the 
“white man’s burden,” which essentialized 
a moral obligation for whites to reform so-
called “savage” populations in the East. 
American imperialism extended from other Western nations’ history of imperialism as a 
way to accommodate the expanding colonial populations and to gain new resources. Manifest 
Destiny, for example, convinced Americans in 
the early 1800s that it was their innate purpose 
to have their nation span to the Pacific Ocean. 
This led to the inhumane conquest of the native 
populations; the natives’ subsequent relegation 
to reservations exemplifies the disinterest 
America has in investing in the futures of 
colonized groups. Americans justified the spread of imperialism across the globe in Asia and Latin America by continuing this view of 
white populations as racially superior and of Western ideologies as culturally dominant. 
Cultural appropriation grew from this 
insincere interest in other cultures. The United 
States as a whole has upheld an “America 
First” platform when dealing with sociocultural issues that has persisted into the contemporary 
era. The stubborn opposition to critics of 
cultural appropriation dictate that those in the 
“dominant” culture can take part in the practices 
of “lesser” cultures because it is perceived that they are respecting those from developing 
backgrounds. However, this is detrimental to 
the people from these non-Western societies 
because it furthers the idea that they are 
novelties of developing countries as opposed to products of full-fledged, respectable cultures 
that differ from a Western standard.
Cultural appropriation as an aftermath of 
imperialism is readily apparent in how Native 
American culture is appropriated in American society. The idea of the “noble savage” situated 
natives outside of the Western society imposed 
on them. This carried through to the present, 
when American Indians typically occupy a 
lower socioeconomic category. This stereotype By: Jacob Sutherland // Sta ff WriterChina is changing the game in a way 
President Donald Trump only wishes he could. The U.S. has gone almost 70 
years since the last time it upgraded its 
infrastructure, and long gone are the days of the New Deal. China on the 
other hand has been spending more on 
economic infrastructure annually than 
North America and Western Europe 
since the turn of the century. Despite Trump’s grand plan to repair and 
upgrade America’s infrastructure with 
$1.5 trillion, the U.S. is so far behind 
that even all that money won’t be 
enough in the short term.
China has slowly become the 
model to follow when it comes to infrastructure, after investing heavily 
in infrastructure in the past couple 
decades and continuing to do so. Five years ago, Chinese President 
Xi Jinping unveiled the next step: 
the “Belt and Road Initiative, which 
aims to sprinkle infrastructure, trade 
and fellow-feeling on more than 70 countries, from the Baltic to the 
Pacific.” With this new initiative, 
China is blowing its competition out of 
the water, air, and land. In doing so it 
is currently isolating the United States, neighboring Canada and U.S. ally 
Japan, who have “yet to be included 
in the plan, which seeks to build 
or upgrade a network of highways, 
railways, ports and pipelines.” On top of China’s “One Belt, One Road” plan 
aiming “to improve the flow of goods 
and access to Central Asia, Europe, 
and the Middle East,” China’s plans 
also address its rapid urbanization. By doing so, China has distinguished 
itself by both investing to consolidate 
its place as a global superpower and developing its infrastructure plan back 
at home. 
The integrity of American 
infrastructures, on the other hand, is 
at a dangerous low, getting a D+ grade 
from an American Society of Civil 
Engineers report, which also “says it’ll take $4.59 trillion to bring things up to 
a B, or adequate grade, by 2025.” This 
isn’t specifically Trump’s problem, 
as American infrastructure has been 
neglected for decades, but the task ahead is daunting. 
Back in the 1950s, President 
Dwight Eisenhower signed the Federal-
Aid Highway Act which authorized 
the construction of 41,000 miles of interstate highway in a period of great 
economic prosperity for the U.S. Now, 
the lack of adequate infrastructure is 
also holding the United States back 
when it is involved in regional and global trades. This, combined with 
Trump’s isolationist tendencies, are 
reducing the U.S. to a smaller role in 
global economics, stepping back from 
the leadership role it once occupied.
Although increasing spending 
would help solve some of the problems, the larger issue cannot be fixed with 
a blank check. China’s efficiency in 
building infrastructure is something the United States should study, as their 
current low spending only results in 
low quality infrastructure. Duplicating 
China’s success would boost economic 
growth, access to markets and services, and create more jobs. The United 
States needs to restructure the way it 
approaches urban development and 
there is no better model than China, an 
unfortunate reality when one considers the increasingly alienating foreign 
policy of the current administration. “In the instances 
where the 
appropriated cultural 
item is accepted into 
mainstream society, 
it loses its initial 
cultural significance.”MARCUS THUILLIER
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDUACROSS 
THE GLOBE
Building Bridges
SeeCULTURE , page 5
Sam Velazquez
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR
Christopher Robertson
OPINION EDITOR
Lauren Holt
NEWS EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published weekly at the University of 
California at San Diego. Contents © 2018. Views expressed 
herein represent the majority vote of the editorial board and are 
not necessarily those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD 
or the members of the Guardian staff.EDITORIAL  BOARD
The Slate System Eclipses Candidates’ PlatformsCulture Not Costume:
A History of ImperialismOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WORLD FRONT WINDOW   By David Juarez
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
SAY?got something 
to
of savagery has haunted American Indians into the 21st 
century because Americans have not stamped out the 
pervasive sense of racial superiority. Consequently, 
Americans do not always feel the need to respect native culture, stereotyping it with the static image of the warrior in a feathered headdress. A disinterest in 
understanding the various native cultures propagated 
this image, leading to overly sexualized American 
Indian costumes, or the decidedly “honorific” plastic headdress and burlap robe combination. The pervasive imperialist ideology put American Indians, among others, into the category of novelty rather than humanity.
An argument made in defense of cultural 
appropriation is that it allows for other cultures to get better recognition from a mainstream audience. Appropriated aspects of the culture at the very least enter the broader American consciousness in a way that the rest of the culture does not. Some argue that this is a positive ramification of the practice. Unfortunately, that is not the case. As seen in the American Indian example, appropriating a culture only works to uphold racially charged stereotypes that paint a biased image. And in the instances where the appropriated cultural item is accepted into mainstream society, it loses its initial 
cultural significance. If one truly wishes to celebrate a 
culture, they must do so more than just aesthetically. 
Learning about the history of a culture, as well as the hardships faced by members of that group, will allow an individual to educate their peers on the culture, 
doing more to bring the marginalized group mainstream 
recognition than wearing a headdress would.
Cultural appropriation, in Western history, is the 
result of an imperialistic push outward that ultimately 
led to an assertion of dominance over other cultures across the globe that did not fall under this cultural and racial category. When deciding whether or not to participate in a custom of another culture, it is important to ask if this practice accurately reflects the wills and views of that culture, or if it will continue to propagate a biased narrative. Through conscientious judgement, one can start to call attention to a history of imperialism that has dominated the American narrative for generations.
▶ CULTURE , from page 4
Jacob Sutherland  Jsuther@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
TIM DENG & SUSANTI SARKAR
features@ucsdguardian.org
In the past few years, and especially in the last few months, the Women’s 
Movement has gained incredible momentum. Time’s Up and #MeToo have garnered worldwide attention, and the public downfall of powerful 
men (starting with Harvey Weinstein last October) has ignited a national conversation about sexual assault. More and more people are vocally opposing President Donald Trump’s mistreatment of women by taking to the streets to protest in the Women’s March, which continues, with each passing year, to be the largest single-day public demonstration in history. Although it is unfortunate that there continues to be something to protest about, the numerical upshoot of participants signifies just how much the movement has grown.
Critical Gender Studies Professor Esin Duzel believes that the feminism 
of today holds “uniqueness in its expansion and in its scope. ” Although the stereotype of feminists as man-haters often persists, feminism is now met with more support than ever before; in general, people today are more likely to consider themselves feminists than people who witnessed earlier waves of the movement did. 
However, many argue that this current popular acceptance of feminism 
has made the movement so mainstream that true radicality has been pushed out of the movement. Instead of opting for radical political activism, the argument goes, the movement embraces easier forms of resistance such as t-shirts and hashtags that often gloss over deeper issues. Duzel, however, disagrees with this criticism, and sees incredible value in the movement broadening this way. 
“I think the symbolic ways of doing politics are helpful because they’re 
motivating, ” she said, referencing feminist T-shirts and political apparel. “They’re energizing, they’re inspiring — this is kind of the cultural work movements do. I don’t want to belittle them, to discard their importance, because as an anthropologist, I also see that the culture of a movement is important. We need to emotionally connect with a movement. ”
 While this growing popularity is unlike anything the movement has 
ever seen, today’s feminism is also revolutionary because the movement has unfortunately never recognized that not all women suffer equally until now. 
“Being intersectional is very important, ” Duzel said, explaining how 
women’s identities interconnectedly affect the ways they’re treated. “ And I think it’s crucial for the feminism of today to not only understand how our gender identities construct us and situate us, but also about how our racial identities affect us, how our sexual identities affect us, how our citizenships, how our class, status — all these kind of different parts of our lives affect us as women. ”
Intersectional feminism is based upon the principle that feminism is 
for all women, especially LGBTQ women and women of color who have been systematically ignored by a movement that has historically prioritized wealthy, white, heterosexual, and cisgender women. Intersectionality means championing inclusivity and understanding that other social movements such as Black Lives Matter play a direct role in the feminist movement because social issues, such as race and gender, among others, overlap. In other words: If it isn’t intersectional, it isn’t feminism. 
While Duzel believes that intersectional feminism is absolutely crucial 
to the success of the feminist movement, she also observes that feminism in the United States only considers intersectionality within the context of its own borders. 
“I find U.S. feminism in general lacking transnational perspective in 
terms of thinking how our lives here are intimately connected with women outside of the country, ” Duzel, who is from Turkey, said. “This is not to say that we need to get involved in other feminist movements in other countries, but that we need to be thinking about connections, about establishing critical frameworks to question things like patriotism, nationalism, and sexism. ”
Although it’s easy to view American feminism as its own movement, 
feminism has transnational significance because women’s issues across the globe are intertwined. For example, our government doesn’t bother to challenge the unequal relationships between countries and it ignores the implications of institutional nationalism and patriotism on sexism. Hot-button issues such as immigration and military warfare are also gendered processes — immigration due to resources often being unevenly distributed according to gender, and military warfare because women are usually taken most seriously once they’ve molded themselves to fit the male guerrilla ideal. As a result, women often end up supporting, or not vocally opposing, the leaders and institutions responsible for systematically oppressing them. 
In terms of feminism at UC San Diego, Duzel encourages students to 
look beyond the campus bubble. It is necessary to remain critically engaged and always question how sexism is deeply entrenched into our lives, especially when it comes to our attendance at university, the institutional embodiment of privilege. 
“I encourage people to engage with feminism, starting with their own 
lives, ” she said, explaining the necessity to examine which voices are silenced and why. “Starting with the campus, looking at their courses, starting with the gender structure of their courses, and questioning their surroundings, their environments, but on the other hand going beyond the campus. The campus is a comfort zone. … We can think about that in our practices of intersectional feminism, about how our societies have been structured in ways that the society reproduces inequalities based on these identities. So in order to challenge that we need to understand how privilege is constructed. ” 
Junior Anushka Rastogi engages with feminism on campus as vice 
president of UCSD’s chapter of the club GirlUp. GirlUp spreads awareness about global gender issues and is currently fundraising to provide bicycles for girls in Malawi who would otherwise not be able to get to school. Advocating for education is GirlUp’s main focus, but it also encourages thoughtful conversations about other women’s issues. 
“It’s important to remember that whatever issue you to choose to focus 
on, ” she said, “[you have to] make sure to be inclusive of all women, which includes women of color and trans women as well. At UCSD, I think it is just important for people to support and to listen to the women on campus. There is no progress if everyone keeps talking and no one listens. The Women’s Center is also a great resource and a safe space that I recommend people check out. In general, I hope that UCSD students use their education and privilege to advocate for those who cannot. ” 
Even though UCSD seems isolated from many of the world’s issues, 
Rastogi’s club does an excellent job involving students in the movement here and also in making a difference abroad. UCSD students are 
Today’s feminist movement has grown to include 
more participants 
than ever before. 
This makes 
it especially 
necessary to focus on inclusivity and 
examine who is 
silenced and why. 
By Lara Sanli // 
Staff Writer
 
Examining 
Feminism 
for Women ’s 
History Month
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
SeeWOMEN , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
UC San Diego’s status as a renowned public research university 
means there are thousands of students who take classes on campus 
everyday, not to mention the thousands more who apply and 
wish to attend every fall. Having such a large population means a welcome diversity in academic fields, backgrounds, and strengths 
of the members of the student body. Unfortunately, it also means 
that it can be difficult for students to get the classes they want at a time that works best with their schedules — or to get classes that 
they want, period. The issue affects the order of classes in which 
students fulfill the requirements for their majors, whether they can meet their graduation dates, and even their future employment or 
graduate school plans. 
The problem exists because of the competing priorities of 
students and faculty and because the campus is unable to physically accommodate the amount of classes the students require, explained 
Dawn Parker, instructional services manager for Undergraduate Services in the Division of Biological Sciences.
“We try to make it as close to perfect as we can, ” Parker said. “But 
it never comes together for every person. [There are] not enough classrooms and time in the day to get every class accommodated in 
an 8-to-5 time frame. ”
The faculty and professors interviewed for this article seemed 
to agree that there is a shortage in the amount of classrooms 
on campus to meet the needs of a growing student population. 
Dr. Laurie Smith, director of undergraduate education for the 
biology department, has been at UCSD for 20 years and has seen the student population massively increase. With the explosion of 
enrollment has come the challenge of getting biology classes placed 
in the classrooms that work for the program. 
“That is a process that is controlled by the registrar, and the 
system that [it uses] is one we don’t really have an impact on. We’re not super happy with it, but it’s constantly under consideration for revision, ” Smith said. “We’ve just learned to live with it in order to 
make our program available to the number of students who want to 
be in it, but that means the classes are going to be big. ”
Though Judy Kim, associate professor of chemistry and 
biochemistry, acknowledges that the ideal class size varies from student to student, she believes her teaching style is better suited to a smaller class size. Smaller classes mean students are better able 
to communicate with their professors and feel more confident in 
making questions and comments. 
“I think a balance of quality and quantity is very important. I’ve 
taught the big courses and the small courses, and I think a lecture of 100 to 200 people is a good size for chemistry, but we don’t have many classrooms of that size, ” Kim said. “When we’re scheduling 
courses, it’s a huge puzzle. I think it would be really helpful to have 
more medium-sized classrooms. I like a space that is conducive to learning. ”
There is another aspect of the enrollment issue that Parker thinks 
more people should be aware of: the fact that student enrollment behavior is naturally unpredictable. Students are inclined to take 
a class in a quarter that is taught by an easier professor or offers a 
more desirable 11 a.m. start time rather than 8 a.m. There are even cases where there is an unexplainable surge in demand. Parker and 
her colleagues study previous quarters’ data to predict the demand 
for upcoming courses, but, because of these factors, the trend is not always smooth.
“There are variables that influence student demand for courses 
that we cannot always foresee, ” Parker said. “When there isn’t enough space in required courses, it’s usually because there was 
more demand than we expected based on what we saw in previous 
quarters, or we weren’t able to get a classroom as big as we needed, and compromises had to be made. ”
“They use historical information to project demand. If they 
have seats for 300 students in class, they’re shooting for a capacity that matches up with last year’s data, ” Smith added. “But if this year, 
400 students want to enroll, there’s not much we can do about that. Contracts are in place, and this process starts months earlier. ”
Those who choose to postpone a class in the fall to wait for a 
different professor, location, or time of day will inevitably create 
a backlog of students for the next quarters, meaning there’s extra space in a fall course that will be packed in the winter.
“Students are smart, and I get that; they want to see who is 
teaching, ” Kim said. “We try to get some uniformity such that it’s not as big of an issue as to who you’re taking the class with. That’s 
a challenge. ”
One of the most important factors in a student’s success in a 
course is the professor they take it with. Teachers affect how well a student understands material and how much they enjoy the class. 
Furthermore, they influence how well a student performs in a course. A student’s GPA and therefore graduate school applications 
reflect the grade they earned in a class, not the professor who taught 
them, meaning the luck of the draw leaves much of a grade up to chance. A student putting in half the work of a student who earns 
a “B” with one professor may end up with an “ A ” in their respective 
class. This is why uniformity among classes is so important.
Kim pointed out that the variation in faculty— some specialize 
in research, others spend more time teaching— means that some are unable to teach certain classes at certain times, further complicating the puzzle. If a well-liked or so-called “easier” teacher takes a quarter off, that results in extra build-up of students waiting to take 
a course. A better balance of strength in professors is needed. 
“We have many different flavors of professors on campus. We 
need a really good balance of research faculty and teaching faculty, ” Kim said. “When I teach my lab course, it takes a lot of time, and 
I can’t travel that quarter, I can’t tend to my graduate students, and it’s a really big commitment. Not everyone is doing the type 
of research I do, so there are some people who could do that type 
of teaching and not have it be as impactful in other parts of their academic career. ”
The enrollment system proves to be especially detrimental to 
international students, whose high school credits aren’t factored into the UCSD system. This means that their enrollment times are 
very late, limiting their abilities to get the classes they need. Urvashi 
Jain, a Roger Revelle College junior majoring in mathematics and computer science, thinks that UCSD doesn’t take international 
students’ previous schooling into account.
“I did all the general education requirements, [like the] science 
and math courses,  during high school, which was not accredited by the university, ” Jain said. “I had to waste basically the equivalent 
of two quarters, which was worthless because I had done it before. ”
Being unable to enroll in a class, particularly a prerequisite, 
could mean that a student doesn’t get the timely preparation they need for further major courses. Taking courses not just out of order, but completely reversed is something Kim has seen too many times, 
and she believes it is ultimately detrimental to a student’s education 
and training in their particular field or major.
“I wish the enrollment system was better tied into the major. 
I see a lot of chemistry majors taking courses that in my opinion, they should have taken earlier, but they’ve often told me, ‘I couldn’t get into that class, ’” Kim said. “There’s a set order of which courses 
should be taken, and in my view, that should be the priority, 
because you want to get the best education. It doesn’t make sense to take a freshman chem lab, chemistry, or physics in senior year, and 
this is because they can’t get the class. ”
Not only would taking major classes out of order affect a 
student’s comprehension in upper-division courses, it is harmful to their later progress in their field. Some summer internships in 
computer science, for example, require knowledge only certain courses can give, and not being able to take these in time reduces 
the chance of acceptance and the ability of students to gain work 
experience, which negatively affects future job searches.
However, Parker points out that it would not beneficial to the 
UCSD student population to give students in a particular major priority in enrolling in that department. Biology students, for example, need to take classes in chemistry, physics, and math 
as well as biology. If the biology department starts restricting its 
courses to majors, the chemistry, physics, and math departments may do the same to biology majors.
“We’re serving our majors, but we’re also a service department, 
for those meeting general education requirements or those who want to go to medical school, ” Parker said. “By giving biology 
majors priority, we would exclude other [non-biology major] 
students who want to prepare for a career with biology. ”
Jain thinks the whole situation is a shame. She can’t get the 
classes she needs, so she ends up taking unnecessary courses to meet the 12-unit minimum or other classes that she is not truly interested in. Many students on campus can agree that for the 
amount of money they pay the university, they should be able to 
enroll in the classes they need. It is the university’s job, after all, to prepare students for the future, not to hold them back from the 
training they need for that. 
“One of the reasons why I came to America was for the 
flexibility of being able to take the courses I wanted instead of being forced to follow a specific list, but I feel like that is what I am not 
able to access, ” Jain said. “We pay a lot of tuition just to get backup classes instead of the ones we actually want. ”
So is there a light at the end of the tunnel? Smith and Parker 
point out that their biology department has already made strides in eliminating the waitlist for all but five of its required major courses for the current quarter. The department also urges students to seek 
out academic advising, which it asserts knows information about 
class scheduling that would be enormously helpful to students. The department also says a meeting with an academic advisor 
is invaluable when it comes to coming up with a strategy for a 
student’s schedule and graduation time.
“That will really help them more than they realize, ” Smith said. 
“They would get a lot of advice regarding enrollment and making choices now that will pave the way for future quarters. ”
Furthermore, some improvements have already been made, with 
more in the works. Kim points to the chancellor’s contribution to lab series which has allowed departments to expand their offerings and eliminate the waitlists. Smith hopes that new classrooms, which 
are due to start being built this summer, will reduce class sizes.
“Ideally, this would have happened 10 to 15 years ago, and 
I’m not sure even that this addition will be enough. That said, the chancellor is pushing for and making additional resources available 
to reduce our class sizes, especially to create more classes with enrollments of under 50 students, ” Smith said. “This year, almost 
half our classes have enrollments of under 50, and last year, it was 
about a third. We’ll continue working in that direction. ”
Class sizes like this would better manifest in the kind of learning 
environment Kim is looking for. Smaller discussions mean more one-on-one time with instructors and increased collaboration among students — something that is sorely lacking in many high-
demand classes as of now. 
Though it is clear that there are many factors which contribute 
to the issue of demand for classes, the problem is too complex to be solved with one solution. There are many demands of students, 
faculty, administration, and campus which must be taken into account.
“I am very sympathetic to the students, and we do everything we 
can to get the students in. I also understand from the administrative point of view that solutions are tough, ” Kim said. “ All of us are aware 
of this problem; how we solve it is another thing. ”Professors and administrators discuss the 
biggest issues and potential solutions for accommodating the endlessly increasing demand for class enrollment.By Charlotte 
Armstrong // 
Staff Writer The  Enrollment 
Conundrum  at  UCSDfortunate to live in a diverse environment and have access 
to incredible resources, but many take that for granted. Rastogi advocates constant self-education because the more students know, the more likely they are to use their privilege to actually change the world.  
Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman and feminist 
advocate Eliana Kontokanis similarly believes that UCSD students have access to a wealth of opportunity. However, few actually realize it. 
 “I think that it’s a really great strength in that we have 
all of this diversity and if you focus on intersectionality and you really want to enhance your understanding of women’s 
experiences you have that opportunity, ” Kontokanis said. 
“But I also think with the setup of the college system, as well as just the fact that it’s a college campus and we live in a bubble, it’s very easy to disregard that diversity because it’s not right in front of you. ”
To amplify the female voices across campus, she decided 
to personally launch the International Women’s Week Literary Magazine, which was published both in print and online, to give female students the opportunity for creative expression and healing. 
“Every woman I know who has gone through something 
and has needed to heal, ” Kontokanis said, “ And then has healed herself in her own way, and then moved on and put that healing and that positivity into the world — that’s what I’m celebrating [for International Women’s Day]. If we’re celebrating all those aspects of women, I think it’s really important to celebrate the things that aren’t usually celebrated. Y ou know, with the information that has arisen with the #MeToo movement and how that was originally started by a black woman, and no one knows or really gives 
her credit. That’s such a present problem in feminism, and 
that’s why intersectionality is so important. I hope future International Women’s Days, as it grows and gets that power and that platform, will pay attention to the oppression of women by women. Because the only way to better feminism is to face what’s wrong with it and to fix it. I personally don’t think there’s anything wrong with admitting our problems. ”Kontokanis, who is a linguistics major, encourages the 
progressive spelling of “womxn” with an “x” for inclusivity. Not only does the traditional word “women” include the “-men” suffix and define women as a subgroup of men, but it also excludes trans women.  
 “That ‘x’ puts in variability, ” she explained, “not only for 
the identification of a womxn, but for womxn themselves deciding ‘Hey, I’m a womxn, but not how she’s a womxn or how they’re a womxn! How I’m a womxn!’”
To further implement “womxn” into our daily lexicons, 
Kontokanis advises simply choosing to use it. Real change is easier than we think because it really just starts with our own conversations.
“I always make fun of it, ” she said. “But [UCSD’s slogan 
is] “break things better. ” What better thing to break than the barrier of what a womxn should be? Womxn have been told their whole lives, for the history of the world, what we should be. So why don’t we tell ourselves what we should be?” 
▶ WOMEN , from page 6
Lara  Sanli    lsanli@ucsd.edu
Charlotte   Armstrong    c1armstr@ucsd.eduOn April 10, Queen Bee’s Art and 
Cultural Center welcomed Frankie Cosmos to San Diego. Teens and 
twenty-somethings sporting dirty white sneakers, miniature backpacks, and baby bangs packed the standing-room-only venue, surrounded by a glow of twinkling purple lights.
Cosmos had two openers: Lomelda and Ian 
Sweet. Lomelda’s musical and personal styles were reminiscent of the charmingly introverted Greta Kline (lead singer-songwriter of Frankie Cosmos), and supplemented by expansive vocals 
with impressive range. Ian Sweet, comprised of a 
lead guitarist, a bass player, and a drums player, was a lively display of angst. Blaring guitars and squeaking vocals energized the crowd before the band stepped back to welcome Frankie Cosmos.
With minimal introduction, Frankie Cosmos 
opened with “Caramelize, ” the first track off their new album, “Vessel. ” The song expresses a yearning for connection and the difficulties of 
obtaining it. Kline’s silky, soft vocals complement 
her music, both oozing a quiet tenderness without ever verging on the saccharine or syrupy. The band followed with “ Apathy, ” and proceeded to perform the new album in a linear fashion, 
broken up with intermittent hits off their previous 
albums.Cosmos’s audience mirrored the band’s 
character: Save for a smattering of hoots and 
hollers, the crowd maintained a calm, laid-back, 
and, in Kline’s words, “chill, ” temperament. Kline also thanked Queen Bee’s Art and Cultural Center for housing the performance, announcing, “I love bees. I think everything is a [f------] bee, ” to 
shouts of approval from the audience.
The band’s songs flowed into one another 
smoothly, united by similar tempos and sounds, 
and a general brevity. Kline’s performance 
exhibited a relaxed spontaneity, injecting somber 
sentiments while maintaining an endearing levity. During “Same Thing, ” Kline closed her eyes to the gentle strumming of her guitar before turning her back to the audience and crouching on 
the ground to welcome the song’s instrumental 
break. In “ Accomodate, ” Kline crooned, “My body is a burden, ” looking out to the audience with an expression of simultaneous wonderment 
and sorrow. 
Frankie Cosmos is an emblem of fragility. 
The delicate vocals, deliberately elementary 
instrumentation, and childlike clothing are all ingredients in Kline’s little-person-in-a-big-world 
persona. Her lyrical quirkiness and melodic 
simplicity allow the heart of her music to come to the surface, capturing that elusive poetic clarity that her fellow literarily inclined singer-
songwriters aspire toward. This lens of sensitivity 
frames everything from the perspective of youthful plain-spokenness to create the poignant –– if a little contrived –– identity of the guileless narrator, perennially coming of age.
Kline’s hyper-aware inward glance details the 
experiences of adolescence and beyond through a potent composition of micro-observations. A highlight of the concert was a performance of the intensely catchy “Being Alive, ” previously released as a single. At one point, Kline sings, “Collapsing inwardly/ Y our name strikes a match in me/ 
After a drum solo I looked up/ Craig/ Called out 
to me after/ Said/ ‘Maybe see you later?’” as the drums pick up speed, almost like a heartbeat, before launching back into the chorus. The moment perfectly captures the euphoria inherent 
in exchanges of sweetness and the magnitude of 
singular moments. At the end of the song, each band member took turns performing an iteration of the chorus, “Being alive/ Matters quite a bit/ 
Even when you feel like [s---], ” as if sharing the 
weight of their burden.
Marked by sudden oscillations between fast-
paced, percussive segments and placid, slow-motion interludes, the band’s musical style 
straddles the realms of indie-rock, indie-pop, 
and punk. Cosmos’s deceptively sunny melodies often cloak melancholic and weighty subject matter like unrequited love, self-destructiveness, 
self-love, and friendship. This paradoxical artistic 
approach embodies the complicated and often contradictory nature of the music’s material and it seemed to encourage enthusiastic bouncing and bopping in the audience throughout the concert.
After the final song, Kline bid farewell to the 
audience, and the band left the stage. A crowd hung around in anticipation of an encore, but began to file out as the band members started 
packing up their instruments. Perhaps this lack of 
a precious sort of conclusion to the evening was fitting. Kline’s prolificacy has proven itself over the years, as has her penchant for minimalism. Listeners can count on a new musical chapter, 
introduced as suddenly as this one closed.
—  Maya  Kleiman
A&E Associate EditorIt’s a small event, but you 
certainly know why you’re there. The moment they step into 
the lobby of Price Center Theater, attendees are greeted by none other than Darth Vader himself and one of his loyal Stormtroopers — a 
terrifying sight for any galactic rebel, 
but none of the filmgoers seem too perturbed. Inside the theater is the April 10 premiere of “The Dark Resurgence, ” a “Star Wars” fan film directed (and written, produced, and edited, among an entire host of other filmmaking duties) by UC San 
Diego student Michael McCumber.
“The Dark Resurgence” opens 
much like any other “Star Wars” 
film — the familiar phrase “ A long 
time ago, in a galaxy far, far away” is 
almost comforting. The music cues are also identifiably “Star Wars” , using many of the same scores from the film, but any other borrowing from the franchise stops there. The characters are all McCumber’s originals, now brought to life in 
a “Star Wars” story of their own, 
and the storyline takes place in the undocumented interim between “Return of the Jedi” and “The Force 
Awakens. ” 
The plot is thus: After the fall of 
the Galactic Empire, another group 
of Sith rises up to fill the opening the Empire left. One Sith — our story’s villain — has been exiled to a strange planet where he is confronted by a rebel group and a powerful Jedi, 
and some pretty spectacular fight 
scenes abound. The fighting was 
choreographed by McCumber, who 
filmed himself acting out lightsaber 
battles with sticks and, along with one of the film’s actors, adjusted the choreography from there.
The Sith Lord is the stand-out 
performance — maybe the voice changer embedded in his mask gives him an advantage, but he easily captures the terrifyingly confident 
cool that makes the galaxy’s greatest 
villains so memorable. The special effects are impressive too, with space weaponry and an opening shot of some galactic ships looking 
like they could have come straight 
out of one of the canonical films. 
The process of filmmaking was 
demanding, though. During the 
Q&A after the showing, one filmgoer 
asked the cast what the process’s greatest challenge was, only to be greeted with a resounding chorus of “climbing up the mountain.” 
“The Dark Resurgence” was filmed 
on nearby Mount Laguna, so each day of filming involved hauling everything from camera equipment 
to stormtrooper costumes up and 
down the slope. Not to mention, much of the filming had to be completely redone after one of the lead actors dropped out of the 
project entirely. By McCumber’s 
estimation, filming the 15-minute project took about a year. 
“Did you expect it to take that 
long?” the UCSD Guardian asked when given the opportunity to sit down with him and discuss the film.
He just laughed. “No, I did not. ”Though this is McCumber’s 
first major project, filmmaking is far from new to him. He began with small projects in high school, eventually working up to something 
longer when inspiration struck. “It was when ‘The Force Awakens’ was 
coming out, ” he said. “I’ve always liked ‘Star Wars, ’ so one day I just 
decided that I wanted to do it, and I 
just went out and did it. ” There was 
a big learning curve, he admitted, 
to starting a project with people he 
hadn’t worked with before and to figure out the intricacies of short filmmaking, but, he said, “I think that’s one of the biggest rewards. ”
Why “Star Wars?” Well, there’s 
certainly a fair amount of passion involved; McCumber has his opinions on all eras of the franchise 
— from his interest in the Sith to 
his appreciation of the Old Republic to his disappointment in “The Last Jedi” — but there was definitely a strategy to his choice as well. 
“Typically, when it comes to 
doing your own projects when you’re unknown, ” McCumber said, “it’s hard to get people to invest in 
something when they’ve never seen 
you prove yourself and what you can do. But if you do a fan film for a known franchise, they’ll watch it because they like the franchise, but 
you can also show that you know 
what to do and you can bring people together to show them what you can do with things that aren’t ‘Star 
Wars.’”
“So you lure them in with ‘Star 
Wars? ’”
He nodded good-naturedly. “You 
lure them in with ‘Star Wars. ’”
To be released on YouTube on 
May 4 (appropriately, “Star Wars” 
Day) on McCumber’s channel “Mike The Marine, ” “The Dark Resurgence” 
is a well-crafted, entertaining look 
into what other stories may have occurred in that galaxy far, far away. In a franchise growing increasingly more complex and controversial, 
sometimes it’s enough to just fight 
some Sith Lords. 
—  Chloe  Esser
A&E EditorA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“The Dark Resurgence” brings a galaxy far, far away to a screen here on Earth. 
FILM   REVIEW
The Dark ResurgencePHOTO COURTESY OF MICHAEL MCCUMBER
Directed by   Michael McCumber
Release Date  May 4, 2018CB+
Frankie Cosmos introduced San Diego to the dazzling sensitivity 
of the eccentric Greta Kline, guiding listeners through the world in her image.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  Queen Bee’s Art and Cultural Center
Concert Date   April 10, 2018Frankie CosmosPHOTO COURTESY OF FRANKIECOSMOSBAND.COM
CbThe theater darkens as the overture 
to “Jesus Christ Superstar” fills 
Mandeville Auditorium. Audience 
members are greeted with a pantomime of 
the apostles running across the stage, fleeing the pursuit of Roman guards. A woman in a sunflower-colored dress is seen picking up money a man throws on the floor and the guards overtake her, leading her to what 
should be her execution for prostitution. These 
proceedings are ceased, though, when a man 
in white robes approaches the crowd, silencing 
them. The crowd walks away dejectedly, as the man takes off his shawl and places it on 
the woman, revealing himself to be Jesus of 
Nazareth (Andrew Paiva) and the woman to 
be Mary Magdalene (Isabella Calabrese).  
So begins a musical that adeptly intertwines 
the traditional story of Jesus’ last week on 
Earth with rock ’n’ roll music. With lyrics 
by Tim Rice and music from Andrew Lloyd Webber, this play is not like your average Sunday school class. Rather than focus solely 
on the familiar acts and teachings of Jesus, 
the musical delves into Judas Iscariot’s (Jake 
Bradford) side of the story. Once Jesus saves 
Mary and brings her into their group, Judas 
fails to understand why he is associating 
himself with someone so risque and starts 
to pay attention to the other ways Jesus is 
supposedly contradicting himself. Audience members see a Jesus who is determined and holy to be sure, but is overpowered by masses of 
people wanting him to heal them or overthrow 
Rome. They do not listen to Jesus’ preachings 
that power comes from beyond violent acts, 
or his frustrated protests that he is only one 
man and can’t heal all of them, swarming and 
celebrating him in a manner reminiscent of 
a crowd rushing a popstar. Eventually Judas 
is concerned enough for the safety of Jesus and Jerusalem that he turns to the Pharisees Caiaphas (Shane Ramil) and Annas (Clara 
Shuler), who are secretly plotting to murder 
Jesus to secure their positions of authority.
“It was definitely a challenge, ” said Andrew 
Paiva on playing the role of Jesus. “I’ve 
grown up Christian my whole life and I am a Christian, and so then playing this character was definitely something I wanted to do well, [and] do a good job portraying the truth 
of it. ” He then went on to explain how he 
reread excerpts from the Bible as well as other historical documents to truly harness the role. Overall the play took a definitively more secular tone in regard to the Gospels, making for more of a historical fiction musical than a pious one, and the actors handled it well. Jesus was tired and sad, yet still glimmered with determination. Shuler discussed how she realized that her character of Annas was all about control, and channeled this 
powerfully through her singing and posture. 
King Herod (Justin David Sullivan) was nothing short of fabulously extravagant, and Pontius Pilate (Miguel A. Muñoz) descended from a pleading, confused judge to a vicious executor. The character of Mary was a far more influential and empowering role than is attributed to her in most retellings of the 
Bible, while Judas portrayed a man full of love 
for a friend contrasted with anger, turmoil, 
and guilt.
“If I ever have a character that is seen 
as a bad guy and has these negative aspects 
surrounding them … I think there’s always a piece of good you can draw from it to start, ” Bradford said regarding his time as Judas. “I think that breaking down these preconceived notions of who these characters 
are is something I definitely learned in this 
process. ”
Produced by Muir Musical during the 
first two weekends in April, “Jesus Christ Superstar” not only showcased the talent of the UC San Diego student body, but also allowed those who normally wouldn’t be involved with school productions to find a welcoming, creative community. Muir Musical 
is an entirely student-run organization that 
produces and performs a Broadway musical every spring. The production crew, actors, and even the orchestra are comprised only of students. What’s more is that Muir Musical is open to anyone interested in being involved with their musical production. One does not have to be a theatre major or minor, have experience in acting, or even be in Muir 
College to participate.
“It’s a great outlet for people who love 
theater and are passionate about theater if 
that’s not their major, ” said director Austyn 
Myers. “I look on that stage and I see that 
somebody in the cast is studying backstage for their engineering test the next day, [that] 
we have [biochemistry] majors, [and that] all 
of these different people who have different 
futures come together to share a common 
passion along with all the people who are here 
and this is what they want to do. ”
If their dedication to working with any 
student willing to display their talent and put in the necessary hours isn’t impressive enough, appreciation for Muir Musical only increases after learning they only have 12 weeks to 
get everything ready before opening night. 
Patricia Mahaffey, the executive producer and assistant vice chancellor of Student Life, is the UCSD staff member who selects the student to direct the play. The rest from this point 
on depends on the students, with the first 
challenge being selecting a musical to perform after taking into consideration what rights they can attain and what other companies are producing in the area. Then there are auditions in the fall quarter, followed by 10 weeks of rehearsal that carry through winter quarter. This leaves them only two remaining weeks, one for building the set and one for perfecting technology use involved with the performance.
Despite this short amount of time to 
prepare a set, the production staff of Muir Musical crafted a stage that allowed the weight and artistry of the performance to extend beyond the acting and music, into the play’s very materials. The set on stage — consisting of a basic metal framework with two levels — was constantly evolving. The cast rearranged 
attachable staircases leading to the upper 
level as needed throughout the performance, 
using the set changes to create an interactive 
experience. This interactivity was further highlighted by the mood lighting that swept the stage from both above and within the framework, visually reflecting scenes’ implied emotions. Costumes were clearly evocative of traditional Biblical imagery but were made out of modern clothing styles. For instance, to show their wealth and solidarity, the Pharisees 
all wore matching suits. The apostles and 
Jesus wore flowing shirts and pants of browns and tans, with the exception of Judas, who dressed in blues and grays. The simplicity of the backgrounds and garments allowed the focus of the play to rest entirely on the actors’ performances. 
“I found that I’m definitely an intimate 
theater-type director, I really like focusing on 
the small details, ” said Myers when discussing 
how he was inspired by his personal taste 
and Mandeville’s theater space. “I was able to 
take that show where it’s usually just about 
spectacle, and strip it down and ask, ‘Okay, 
what is the story here?’”
The end result of all this hard work 
definitely paid off. Though there were a handful of technical difficulties involving 
microphones leading to unclear singing, and 
sometimes confusion from audience members 
who were unfamiliar with the contents of 
the New Testament, overall “Jesus Christ Superstar” was truly a spectacular show. It illustrated more than just its actual plot. This was a production that allowed the passion of its students –– many who would normally 
not be involved with a theater production 
–– to really shine through and illustrate how 
communities of creativeness will develop 
anywhere there are those interested. 
—  Daisy Scott
A&E Editorial Assistant  A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
“Jesus Christ Superstar” gave new flair to the Gospels while simultaneously exhibiting the talent of the student 
organization Muir Musical.
MUSICAL  FEATURE
Jesus Christ Superst ar
PHOTO COURTESY OF MUIR MUSICAL
Location   Mandeville Auditorium
Dates  April 7-8 & 12-14, 2018
Starring Andrew Paiva, Jake Bradford, Isabella Calabrese, Miguel A. Muñoz, 
Justin David Sullivan, Clara Schuler, Shane Ramil
10                                            T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 6 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
This quarter, my Tuesdays and Thursdays start off with a two-hour Introduction 
to Indian Dance class, where I study the classical South Indian dance form of 
Bharatanatyam. Each class starts off with a meditative, gratuitous prayer — led by our ever-patient and graceful teacher, Divya Devaguptapu — to thank the Earth for 
letting us stomp on her for the next two hours. In this moment of reflection, played 
out in a chorus of Sanskrit and to the rhythm of our knee and hip joints popping 
as we communally squat into the ground, our teacher comments on the beauty of Earth, its generosity in letting us make movement, and the pre-arthritic condition of 
our bones. Simultaneously, I think about how I am too young to have arthritis, and 
how everything, to some extent, takes from Earth without the promise of holistically returning it back. 
Retrospectively, my daily existence takes from Earth, with or without knowing 
it. The coffee I brew is borrowed from a bean and water source, the commute I take extracts fuel from the ground, and the classrooms I’m in are run by the harnessed 
energy I take for granted. But when I attempt to give it back, it comes in the form 
of discarded waste and gray emission. And now, I think about how this beautiful Bharatanatyam movement takes and stomps on Earth too, albeit in a different way. 
Nevertheless, in both the practicality (and extensive amounts of produced waste) 
of modern living and the intricacies of the rhythmic pitter patter of our feet, I find myself caught in the tension of creating beauty and brokenness through the borrowed 
resources and space the Earth provides. But it’s also exhausting to think about the minutiae of our routine from day to day. I, 
for one, am but a 21-year-old who is worried about graduating and occasionally forgets to turn off the light before I leave the apartment because I’m late to class. Sometimes I want to be emotionally unavailable to think about how the $5 shirt I was able to buy 
is inexpensive because of the externalized costs of cheap labor and natural resource 
extraction. I don’t want to take a moment to consider whether the coffee I brew is a 
fair-trade product, and I definitely don’t like to think about the gallons of water that goes into each time I need to flush the toilet. But this points to my, and perhaps our, 
privilege of unsustainable living. It’s the ability to throw away the bruised apple without 
bruising the conscience. 
Writing this is not to call out every action we take as a step towards the destruction 
of our collective and shared space. By all means, please take showers, drive to visit a faraway friend when needed, and please — please — flush the toilet. But do also take some mental energy to consider what tangible steps can be taken towards a 
more sustainable lifestyle. Go meatless on Mondays, try thrifting instead of cheaply 
consuming, bring a reusable mug to the local coffee shop, and find ways to take the bus or walk instead. In our privileged state of routine, remember that restorative justice 
includes how we relate to Earth too, and that we are all held to some responsibility for 
this and for coming generations. All that’s to say: Let’s appreciate how generous the Earth has been in its landscape and provision, but don’t settle for the complacency and 
comfort that comes with the cost of unequitable and careless consumption. A Bruised Apple 
by Brittney Lu // Associate Lifestyle Editor
In the flurry of assignments, deadlines, and unexpected responsibilities (yes, even in Week 
2), it is easy to get lost in the rush and submit to stress. Faces break out, caffeinated bodies shake, and the occasional scream of pure, unfiltered frustration are all valid responses to the intensity 
this campus demands from its students in a condensed ten week term.
Not a stranger to stress-induced meltdowns and hectic schedules, I have found relief in 
taking (at least) 30 minutes of my day to reconnect with the environment around me. Cliche, I know, but if you’re a hopeless romantic of nature like I am, this campus offers a unique range of scenery that calms the mind and cultivates creativity. From the nostalgic ease of the Original 
Student Center’s hump, to the comforting touch of wind as one stares into the Earl Warren 
College canyon, there is limitless beauty found in the most mundane areas of campus.
It’s difficult to choose, but my top spots are located in John Muir College and Warren: the 
grassy patches in front of the Muir apartments, and the freedom found in the Warren canyon.
Sitting outside on the inviting patches of lush green can turn the area behind Pines into a 
hidden gem. On the right days, the leaves play songs of the season with the wind; the grass 
brushes against one’s legs, and some leaves may even descend softly into loose hair. While I 
realize this may be annoying, especially on windier days, there is a sense of belonging that comes in physically connecting with earthly elements. For me, connecting with the earth itself through 
the green in my fingertips and the delicate petals on my body provides a grounding sensation 
that clarifies ideas in my head and reconnects the body to the universe. It reminds me that we are interconnected as the leaves fall to blend in with the grass and the background chatter of student life becomes indistinguishable.
On the opposite end, Warren canyon serves as a place of unbound freedom. One look into its 
expanse provides a rush of liberation, the wind rushing against your cheeks and the soft beat of foliage brushing against one another on the hill’s descent. There is a sense of unknown, but it’s inviting; the massive area is representative of the ideas in my head and the answers I seek. Sitting 
and eating at the edge of Canyon Vista terrace gives an incredible view that spans most of the 
canyon, allowing yourself to think peacefully and explore the ideas that have been circulating in your head. I am free, engaging with the environment around me as we explore our connection 
together; it is relaxing, validating, and nothing short of remarkable.
My one last space is fleeting. From the view of The Village’s highest towers, the ocean’s 
horizon glows magically as the sun sets tentatively into its depths. The glow of the sunset blends intricately with the sea’s growing indigo, the two colors meshing intimately that draw the eye 
in. It’s here — especially with the people I cherish — that peace reaches the mind, and never do I feel more interlaced with nature, humanity, and my own existence than in this moment. The 
fading sunlight radiates on your skin and illuminates your eyes. It is reaffirming, and I hope to 
one day see the sunset from this point in the near future as my first year draws to close.
While this may not work for everyone, new experiences can offer insight on your own 
preferences to combat stress. It may seem far-fetched, but maybe one nap in the sun below that inviting tree in Muir will work wonders; I am sure Sun God would appreciate the company too!One’s Earthly P eace
by Elizabeth Adams // Staff Writer
PHOTO BY ELIZABETH ADAMSLIFESTYLE           THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Natasha Vandamme, Lifestyle Staff Writer
Climate change. It is real, happening now, and caused by humans. Since the Industrial Revolution, average 
global temperatures have risen by about 1 degree Celsius. This may not seem very important, but the change 
has certainly had an impact on the Earth. From rising sea levels to species endangerment, climate change has 
caused enough damage, but what is causing the climate change itself? Humans. Anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions have caused a major accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, exacerbating the 
greenhouse gas effect. This not only creates problems with temperatures, ecosystems, species, and natural 
disasters, but also our oceans. Known as the second climate change problem, ocean acidification is not a well-enough-known issue considering how significant it is. Ocean acidification is when the ocean (a carbon sink) 
absorbs atmospheric carbon dioxide, causing the water to become more acidic; for all the chemistry majors 
reading this, the formula is H2O + CO2 → H2CO3. Ocean acidification depletes the ocean of bicarbonate 
minerals and calcium carbonate ions, which shelled creatures and coral reefs need to live. As consequences 
of climate change, about one-third of coral reefs have already died, another one-third is dying, and the last 
one-third is still healthy. Not only is ocean acidification harming these creatures, but it is also affecting the other creatures who rely on coral reefs for survival. When coral reefs die, the whole ecosystem goes with it, 
unfortunately. Overall, climate change is damaging our coral reefs and threatening biodiversity, especially 
in our oceans. What can humans do to help? People can eat less meat, recycle, thrift shop, switch to more energy efficient practices (such as solar energy), and become more educated. Change starts with awareness. 
Spreading one’s knowledge about these issues and what people can do to help will make a difference. Everyone 
can help to create a better future for the earth.
Lizzy Adams, Lifestyle Staff Writer
The ocean is loving, generous, and hopeful. The water embraces bodies in ways that are intimate, 
especially when the sand caresses your toes and the wind pecks your skin. Water — in lakes, oceans, and 
rivers — is as mystical as the transparency that defines it. It is essential to the survival of our existence and 
the interconnectedness with the planet’s system. A trace of peace, it falls from the sky, nourishes the land, and feeds our being; it is more human than we can recognize. The serenity of water is not without cost, and there 
must be more compassion to the methods in which we misuse her gifts. The plastic we dispose of and the 
waste that befalls her, is menacing; it is all from our doing of reckless selfishness and obliviousness. Return what is given through caring for the ocean as it has nurtured us — she is open to forgiveness. 
Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Staff Writer
One of my favorite places on Earth would undoubtedly be McArthur-Burney Falls in Northern 
California. My family used to go camping there in the summer and after one visit, I fell in love with it. It’s an Lifestyle’s Earth Thoughts
by Lifestyle Staff
PHOTOS COURTESY OF COLLEEN CONRADI
12                                                   T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 6 ,  2 0 1 8  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
SPRING 2018
M: 2pm-4pm
Tu: 12pm-5pm 
12pm-5pm W: 
Th: 12pm-5pm 
F: 10pm-4pmAT  T H E  O R I G I N A L  S T U D ENT C ENTE R
tritonfoodpantryHOURS
understatement to say camping in Burney is hot. Temperatures quickly climb into the hundreds, 
so you wake up sweating in your sleeping bag. However, the one, true escape from the heat 
would be the walk down to the falls themselves. A sweltering walk from the campsite to the 
beginning of the trail can cause doubts in your mind that a waterfall could be worth it; keep going! Once at the start of the path, you begin to slowly descend on a winding trail down to the 
pool of the falls. With each step, nature’s air conditioning blesses you with a continuous cooling 
temperature drop in addition to the spray of mist on your face from the falls. Soon you’re barricaded by trees, moss, rocks, and facing a monstrous waterfall pouring into a deep blue pool 
at the bottom. The temptation to jump right into the water is almost too much to resist. This 
refreshing oasis in the midst of such heat and sweat suddenly brings out wonder and admiration for nature. Places like these are a beautiful reminder that we live in on an incredible planet. We couldn’t be luckier to have been planted here on Earth, so take every chance you get to explore and celebrate what nature has to offer!
Samirah Martinez, Lifestyle Staff Writer
As a child growing up in the desert, my weekends were often spent inside with the air 
conditioning blasting as I watched TV . The desert can be a difficult place to love for many. It’s 
hot, there’s scorpions, cactuses are spikey, and did I mention it’s hot? I’ll admit that as a child, I 
wondered why my parents had ever settled down in a place that seemed so uninhabitable. But when I moved away for college, I began to appreciate the hot cauldron I called home. I find 
that there is nothing that can beat the feeling of being outside early on a desert morning and hearing nothing but a gentle breeze. There is nothing quite as simultaneously scary and silly as 
hearing coyotes howling just a few feet from your backyard. There is nothing quite as exciting as 
an unexpected sand storm forcing you to seek shelter. There is nothing like the smell of rain in 
the desert and the sweet scent that takes over everywhere when the humidity hits the creosote bushes. The desert will always have a special place in my heart, not because of its heat, but 
because of nature’s miraculous ability to remind me that I am nothing and everything all at once.
Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
It’s Saturday, and I’m lying on a red-and-blue plaid picnic blanket at La Jolla Shores, reading 
a collection of short stories and absorbing the rays from the evening sun. The warm day has 
drawn crowds of people, but it’s mostly calm by this point, even though I go back and forth between my book and worrying I’ll get hit by a whizzing frisbee. Eventually, my friend and I get up to put our feet in the water, and we marvel at the hundreds of tiny clams, whose whole existence seems to consist of trying to not get swept up by the rushing sea.
It’s only the second or third time I’ve gone to the beach this school year, and I suddenly 
realize how much I take this place for granted. I’ve grown too used to the sound of crashing waves, the brilliant pink and orange sunsets, living somewhere that so many people wish they 
could be. That afternoon was a reminder that enjoying nature doesn’t have to take the form of 
a big trip to Joshua Tree or Yosemite. Sometimes it’s simply about enjoying your surroundings with a fresh pair of eyes, like you’re seeing the world around you for the first time. 
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
DAYMÉ AROCENATahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 16 - APR 222018
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIANFRIDAY, APRIL 20
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
10am
UCSD FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN 
SQUARE
Every Tuesday, 10am-2pm. Meet our local 
growers and enjoy farm fresh fun. Our eclectic food vendors have a little something for everyone. Bring a reusable bag, or buy one of our all-new canvas totes for your purchases. Town Square on Myers Drive. Contact: cwoolery@ucsd.edu
1pm
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF COLOR 
FORUM - GSA LOUNGE, OLD 
STUDENT CENTER
The forum is for graduate students of color, who 
would like to connect and discuss about our experiences as graduate students of color. This 
forum will provide a supportive space to discuss 
various topics from a multicultural lens, which 
includes managing stress and improving well-being, communication with your adviser(s), dealing with impostor syndrome, family responsibilities, relationships (romantic or social),multicultural identities, current sociopolitical climate, experiences of discrimination, etc. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu
4pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM - 
SIXTH COLLEGE, MAIN 
CONFERENCE ROOM
This is a supportive drop-in forum for South 
Asian (International & Asian American) and Desi- identified students earning their undergraduate, graduate & professional degree. Join us for conversations each week & build community. Contact: nsukumaran@ucsd.edu3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: MOVE YOUR 
BODY TONE YOUR MIND - 
MURRAY’S PLACE, STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES CENTER
Interested in a moving mediation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will lead you to a sense of peace and general well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcome! Yoga mats are provided! Contact: diquach@ucsd.eduTUE4.17
THU4.19
7am
ON UCSD- TV TONIGHT: 
CALIFORNIA’S WILDFIRES AND THE 
HPWREN CAMERA NETWORK
UCSD-TV on Spectrum channel 1231, Cox 
channel 135, AT&T U-verse channel 99
9am
SOCIAL INNOVATION SPRINT: SAN 
DIEGO- TIJUANA BORDER ISSUES - 
UC SAN DIEGO
Want to learn about design thinking and social 
entrepreneurship, develop solutions to pressing social issues, earn a certificate, and compete for $15k worth of prizes? Then check out the Social Innovation Sprint, a two-day workshop + design competition hosted by the Jacobs School of Engineering and the Rady School of Management at UC San Diego. Faculty will guide teams of high school, undergraduate, and graduate students to define, prototype and pitch solutions to a panel of CEOs, educators, and city officials. The design challenge this quarter will focus on issues relevant to the San Diego-Tijuana border region, including environmental justice, sustainable education, healthcare access, and migration. Applications are now open: https://socialinnovationsprint.com/. Contact: eloui@ucsd.edu
7SAT4.21MON4.16
3pm
A TELESCOPIC HISTORY OF THE SRI 
LANKAN WAR - GEISEL LIBRARY, 
SEUSS ROOM
Join us for a talk by writer Samanth 
Subramanian, who is a correspondent for The National and the author of two books of reportage, Following Fish: Travels Around the Indian Coast and The Divided Island: Stories from the Sri Lankan War. Contact: prbharadwaj@ucsd.edu
8pm
DAYMÉ AROCENA - THE LOFT, PC 
EAST
Raised in Havana, Daym Arocena has quickly become the voice for a new generation of talented Cuban millennials who are reimagining their African roots through a lens that filters jazz, soul, and funk. Acclaimed by Vice magazine as the worlds next jazz phenomenon, Arocena garners comparisons to musical giants Nina Simone and Celia Cruz. Her powerful singing and buoyant music defy expectations, drawing on the rhythms of Afro-Cuban traditions, the nimble athleticism of jazz, and the catchy hooks of pop melodies. The songstress is also an avid practitioner of Santera, an Afro-Caribbean religion based on Yoruba beliefs, and its chants and rhythms are as important to her music as jazz and Cuban neo-soul. Contact: artpower.marketing@gmail.com3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: PEACE OF 
MIND MONDAYS - GALBRAITH 
HALL ROOM 190
Emotions make our lives rich and colorful, but 
do you wish to learn how to navigate them 
better? In Peace of Mind workshops, you learn 
how to live in the moment, manage your emotions, increase interpersonal skillfulness and identify what is really important in your life. Contact: plamatya@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
GAME OF THRONES SEASON ONE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
See it on the Big Screen! Two episodes screened 
each week. Cost: FREE for UCSD Students w/ID. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
ON UCSD- TV TONIGHT: 
CALIFORNIA’S WILDFIRES AND THE 
HPWREN CAMERA NETWORK
UCSD-TV on Spectrum channel 1231, Cox 
channel 135, AT&T U-verse channel 99
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Visit icafe.ucsd.edu or follow us on Facebook for 
weekly menus! Entry $5 per person. Finish the week off right at the International Friday Cafe! Meet people from around the world, enjoy international music, and explore world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal from featured countries around the world. All students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome! Contact: j1soong@ucsd.edu
3pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: WISE MIND 
- GALBRAITH HALL ROOM 190
Emotional Mind + Logical Mind = WISE Mind. Wise mind is when both parts of the mind work together in harmony. Learn how to effectively tolerate everyday stressors, communicate effectively while maintaining self-respect and relationships, and improve your relationship with your emotions while living a life in accordance to your values. Contact: pnili@ucsd.eduFRI4.20WED4.188PM ·THE LOFT, PC EAST
11:30am
EARTH MONTH DIY MAKERS’ DAY - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
The Library Sustainability Committee is hosting 
a DIY Makers Day celebrating Earth Month on 
campus, using sustainable, non-toxic, reusable, 
and recyclable materials. Bring a tote bag and get hands on experience making sustainable products! Light refreshments will be served! Contact: kmkane@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DAILY DROP -IN GROUP: TRAIN 
YOUR BRAIN - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Come to The Zone for a free one-on-one Biofeedback 
demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness 
Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep 
breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. Check 
out The Zone calendar for info on this and other 
free wellness programs! Contact: 
psavaiano@ucsd.edu
5pm
CHS FILM SCREENING & 
DISCUSSION— ATKINSON HALL 
AUDITORIUM, CALIT2, WARREN 
COLLEGE
Join us for a special screening of the film 
“Iphigenia: Book of Change” followed by a discussion with film Director Elise Kermani, and guest panelists Professor Page duBois and Professor Babak Rahimi. IPHIGENIA: BOOK OF CHANGE—A unique film highlighting the Greek figure of Iphigenia to tell a narrative about women who have endured, survived and escaped captivity, via performances of puppetry, theatre, dance, art design and music. Event is free and open to the public. Space is limited—please RSVP! Event hosted by the Center for Hellenic Studies at UC San Diego in partnership with the Institute of Arts & Humanities (IAH), Middle East Studies and the Classical Studies Department at UC San Diego.
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
did you know...
APRIL 17
NATIONAL BAT
APPRECIATION DAYCLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
COLOR ME SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Early photo color
6. Certain Arabian garments10. Agt. ’s cuts
14. You prefer the lesser of these two
15. The Andrews Sisters, e.g.
16. What little things mean?17. Common currency19. Sly tactic
20. Barely achieve (with ‘’out’’)
21. Island explored by Magellan
22. Find abhorrent24. Certain military force26. One-trick ___
27. Talk in the ‘60s?
28. Some shop machines
32. Warm and pleasant35. Alley-___ (basketball maneuver)36. Damascus is its capital
37. Keystone State port
38. Dig up dirt?
39. Fax function40. Some freshwater fishes42. Cross or crow finale43. Tent post44. From a poor plan46. It could start 17, 58-Across and 10, 
25-Down
47. Give it ___ (make an attempt)48. Nail and tooth coverings52. Jack Lemmon film55. ‘’Take ___ from me’’ (follow my 
advice)
56. My ___, Vietnam57. Not a breeze58. It may hold your book61. Oppositionist62. Befuddled63. It takes two to do it64. Paragon of redness65. ‘’Afterward ... ’’66. City near Great Salt LakeDOWN
 1. Meal at which the Haggadah is read2. Draw forth3. ___ up (accumulated)
4. Not so well
5. American botanist
6. Bad way to be held7. Part of some hats8. Feel malaise
9. Convinced of
10. Governmental form in Britain
11. Crossword feature12. Turn partner13. Editor’s override
18. Hindquarters
23. Partner of odds
25. Highwayman with a weapon26. News follower28. Display displeasure to a performer, 
in a way
29. Floor measure30. Playful signal31. Marquis de ___32. Earth bank33. Wild African sheep34. They’re blown in anger35. Expression of delight41. Rectangular paving stone43. Gets the quarterback the ball, in a 
way
45. Show pleasure toward46. ‘’Don’t bet ___!’’48. Wharton’s Frome49. Fawn-colored antelope50. ‘’Music Box” star51. Ancient Phoenician city52. White-whale pursuer53. Wind direction indicator54. Joker Johnson55. 1958 Pulitzer winner James59. Relative of -esque60. License plateAUTO
Used 2006 Mazda Mazda6 Grand Sport 
i. San Diego, CA 92111. The impressive Mazda fuel-efficiency will make you quickly realize what youve been missing out on in life. Its noteworthy fuel economy and minimal emissions make this vehicles value a cut above the rest. In addition to being well-cared for, this Mazda Mazda6 has very low mileage making it a rare find....ucsd-guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
2018 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. San Diego, 
CA 92110. 4D Crew Cab, Some rebates may require you to finance through our preferred lender, Price includes: $1,000 - General Motors Consumer Cash Program. Exp. 01/31/2018, $1,000 - Silverado Incremental Consumer Cash....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Toyota RAV4 for sale. San Diego, 
CA 92115. Black 2015 Toyota RAV4 LE FWD six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i 120 
Point Inspection & Full Detail Performed, 
Gas $aver, Brakes Serviced, Bluetooth, RAV4 
LE, 4D Sport Utility, 2.5L Recent Arrival!...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information 
HOUSING
The Dorchester Apartments. $1,275 - $1,750. 6595 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, 
CA, 92115. The Dorchester Apartments 
community in San Diego offers pet-friendly one and two bedroom apartment homes 
with comfortable, spacious, and bright open floor plans.Our community features 
a large sparkling swimming pool, beautiful 
courtyards, 24 hour emergency mainte -
nance, WiFi hotspots available in common 
areas through Cox Communications......ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-
mation
College Campanile Apartments. $1,415 - 
$3,135. 5691 Montezuma Road, San Diego, 
CA 92115. These floor plans include spa -
cious one, two and three bedrooms, some poolside or upgraded. Being located in the 
heart of the college area you will find shop -
ping centers, banks, a library, schools, free-
ways and more. WIFI hotspots in the com -
mon areas through Cox Communications, 
a stove, a dishwasher in some apartments, and cable and internet ready.....ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
The Diplomat. $1,375 - $1,790. 6621 Montezuma Rd., San Diego, CA 92115. Our other amenities for you to enjoy are FREE assigned parking, a refreshing pool and BBQ, on site laundry facility, 24 hour emer -
gency maintenance, and a courtyard foun -
tain. We hope you will call or stop by and we look forward to making The Diplomat your new home!....ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds for more information
PART TIME JOBS
Accounting clerk. BalaCent LLP . Carlsbad, CA 92011. Data enter Accounts Payable and reconcile credit cards. 8 hours per week. Prefer Accounting Student. If candidate shows promise more hours may be pos-sible. Flexible hours to fit student’s sched-ule.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationPart Time Recreational Gymnastics Coaches. Emerald City Academy of Rhythmic Gymnastics. San Diego, CA 92131. Looking for that special person with an upbeat, energetic personality. Enthusiasm required! The ideal candidate has gymnastics experi -
ence, loves children, and has a flexible schedule. Coaching experience preferred but we will train the right person......ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Independent Medical Sales Rep (1099). 
Script Relief. San Diego, CA 92101 USA. We’re looking for enthusiastic sales reps to go to doctors’ offices and leave behind kits of these cards at the reception desk and other accessible areas. In order to facilitate the process for our reps, our sales team uses a special website that provides list -
ings of available doctors in your area. We will also provide training to acclimate you to the whole business.....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
UC San Diego @ Cal State 
University, Northridge — April 13
Still looking for its first ever Big West 
Conference win, the UC San Diego men’s 
volleyball team lost to ninth-ranked 
California State University, Northridge 
in four sets resulting in the scores of 22–
25, 14–25, 25–19, and 25–17. Although 
preventing a three-set sweep, the Tritons 
could not find a way to dig themselves 
out of an 0–2 hole early on.
The first set lasted a total of 18 tie 
scores and two lead changes, eventually residing in favor of the Matadors. While even at a score of 22, CSUN capitalized on an attack error by the Tritons, following up with a kill to push the lead 
to 2. An additional attack error from 
UCSD lift ed CSUN ahead right away.
Moments later, the two California 
teams dueled o ff in another competitive 
set. Ahead by 1 at 5–4, 4 consecutive CSUN scores flipped the script. A 
strong kill by junior outside Nathan Thalken cut the lead to 2 — however, the 
Matadors bounced back immediately.
Senior opposite Tanner Sy ftestad and 
freshman outside hitter Wyatt Harrison led the Tritons with 12 and 11 kills, respectively. Both combined for a total 
of 24 points and 10 digs on top of 1 assist 
apiece.
The Tritons played their best ball in 
the third set recording a team attack percentage of .440 on 14 kills and just 3 
errors out of the 25 attempts.
Senior middle blockers Bryan Zhu 
and Alec Flowers each racked up 7 kills 
and 2 block assists, while sophomore 
setter Connor Walbrecht tallied 17 assists, 8 digs, 2 block assists, and a 
perfect 3-for-3 on kills.
With hopes of using the successful 
third set to boost the Tritons in a 
come-from-behind win, UCSD lost momentum at an 11–5 advantage for CSUN midway through the fourth set. 
Overall the Matadors led in just about 
every category leaving no doubt of the victor on this night.
UC San Diego vs. Cal State 
University, Northridge — April 14
Saturday night would be the last 
time seven senior Tritons played on their beautiful home court of RIMAC Arena in a conference rematch against 
CSUN. Luke La Mont, Alec Flowers, 
Drew Sloane, Milosh Stojcic, Bryan Zhu, Tanner Sy ftestad, and Luke McDonald 
were all honored prior to the match for 
all their hard work and dedication to the 
UCSD program over the last four or five 
years.
Unfortunately, the Tritons dropped 
3 straight sets with scores of 21–25, 
18–25, and 21–25.  In the first set, the 
only 2 tie scores would come at 1–1 and 
2–2 before the Matadors took o ff on a 
roll to secure the opening. The second 
set consisted of 0 lead changes as UCSD would fight to stay within 5 points but 
failed to hang on late.On his Senior Night, Sy ftestad 
collected 5 digs and 11 kills pushing 
his career total to 1202. Redshirt 
sophomore outside hitter Xander Jimenez placed second behind Sy ftestad 
in points scored at 7.5 from 7 kills and 1 block assist. Flowers also contributed 
4 kills and 5 digs and Stojcic pushed his 
career assist total to 2500 with 16 assists the same night.
The Matadors calculated a team 
attack percentage of .300 or better in every set. Moreso, a team total of 10.5 blocks compared to 4 from the Tritons would explain only one part of the problem for UCSD on Saturday night.
A third set de ficit handed UCSD 
their  18th loss of the year and 10th loss in the Big West Conference. Because all six teams make the conference 
tournament, UCSD as the sixth seed is 
set to face third-seeded UC Irvine in the quarter final on Thursday, April 19 at 5 
p.m. California State University, Long Beach will host inside Walter Pyramid. 
A win on Thursday night will put 
UCSD in a position to play second seed 
University of Hawaii the following day. BY Madeline  Lewis
Staff WriterTritons secured their 13th 
consecutive win versus the Warriors.
On pitching duty, 
sophomore Alanna Philips worked 6 innings while striking out 6, matching her career high, and allowing no 
runs. Wampler closed the 
contest in the seventh inning 
to earn the win for UCSD.
Game 3
Saturday gave rise to a 
different storyline as the 
Warriors got the best of the 
Tritons in the first game of 
the day, 3–2. Interestingly enough, the game turned out to be quite similar to the series opener, except the Tritons took the loss this 
time around. 
The Warriors took the 
early 1–0 lead in the first 
inning as an RBI double put 
the Tritons down. However, 
in the second, UCSD 
responded quickly with a score of their own to level things up at 1–1. A ground 
out brought in the runner for 
the Tritons looked to grind another win in order to take the series.
Stanislaus State earned 
2 runs in the fourth to take a 3–1 lead going and at this point it was going to be a fight for the Tritons to get 
back into the game as both teams had played terri fic 
defense all up to this point.
UCSD earned a glimpse 
of hope in the seventh inning, as the team inched its way back into the game with an RBI walk and the bases loaded. However, no more 
damage was made a fter and 
the Warriors narrowly held 
on for the win. 
Game 4 
Unlike the other games 
on the weekend, the series 
closer came out of le ft field 
as the Warriors blew out the 
Tritons 8–0 in six innings.
Seven runs in the second 
for Stanislaus was enough to 
seal the victory. UCSD had nothing going on o ffensively 
as they had 5 hits in the game while, Stanislaus had 8 but had a hit for every run they scored.
Their final run of the 
afternoon came in the sixth 
inning to add insult to injury and end the game.
Next up, the Tritons will 
head up to Monterey where they will face California State University, Monterey Bay in a four-game series starting Friday, April 14th. 
▶ SOFTBALL, from page 16
Daniel  Hernandez  dah043@ucsd.eduTritons Flop FinaleUCSD dropped both Senior Night games.
UCSD looks to quarterfinals. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS 
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 16, 2018 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALEX WU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
M Volleyball
Baseball
W Water Polo
Softball4/19
4/204/204/204/216 PM5 PM6 PM6 PM
11 AMCal State San BernardinoAT Hawaii (Semifinals)Cal State San BernardinoSan Diego State (Harper Cup)AT Seaside
The UC San Diego men’s baseball 
team faced o ff against California 
State University, Stanislaus in a four-
game series. The Tritons overcame 
the Warriors and improve to 19–12 
in California Collegiate Athletic 
Association play.
Game 1
Stanislaus State quickly secured 
an opening RBI in the first inning. 
Following the opening run, neither 
team could really get things going. In 
the fifth inning, however, Stanislaus 
scored another homerun o ff a single 
ball sent to the le ft side. 
In a 2–0 de ficit headed into 
the sixth inning, the Tritons dug 
down. The sixth was a particularly successful inning — UCSD had its 
most hits of the game at that point. With all three bases loaded, redshirt 
junior in fielder Alex Eliopulos 
nailed a double to send two Tritons 
home. 
UCSD held Stanislaus State at bay 
and stayed focused going into the 
final inning. In the ninth, Eliopulos 
sent a single down the middle for his 
third RBI of the game. The Tritons 
take game 1, 3–2. 
Game 2 
Riding the momentum of Friday’s 
game, UCSD took game 2 by storm. 
Redshirt freshman in fielder Blake 
Baumgartner opened up the game 
with a homerun to the le ft middle. 
In addition to a run of his own, 
Baumgartner also earned an RBI for 
junior first-baseman Tyler Durna. Stanislaus State replied with a run of their own in the second.
Undeterred, the Tritons kept 
their foot on the gas pedal. A triple 
by redshirt sophomore utility 
Keenan Brigman gave Eliopulos and 
redshirt freshman in fielder Blake 
Baumgartner two easy runs. An RBI 
single by redshirt junior catcher 
Michael Palos gave UCSD a 5–1 
lead. 
Smelling blood, UCSD did not 
relent — the Tritons blew open the 
game in the fifth inning with 6 total 
runs. Already at an 11–1 advantage, UCSD played until the end; the team 
scored 6 more homeruns in the final 
three innings and only gave up one. UCSD takes game 2, 17–2.
Game 3
Stanislaus State looked to send a message in the first inning of game 
3, starting o ff the game with a quick 
RBI double. UCSD answered in the 
second inning with 5 runs of its own. Redshirt sophomore utility 
Steven Schuknecht scored UCSD’s 
1st run, scoring o ff a fielder’s choice 
to first base. 
With the score at 5–1 in the third 
inning, the Warriors, a flyball out to 
left field gave Stanislaus State their 
second and final run of the game. 
Almost as if in response, UCSD 
senior in fielder Justin Beck sent the 
ball screaming down the right field 
line for a homerun. In the fourth 
inning, Beck hit a single toward the left field and earned an RBI single 
off of a run by Schuknecht. Not 
satisfied, UCSD scored 2 more runs 
in the fifth inning: redshirt freshman outfielder Brandon Stewart and 
freshman in fielder Shay Whitcomb 
secured the runs.
UCSD takes Game 3, 9–2.
After defeating Stanislaus State 
9-4 in Game 4, UC San Diego looks 
to play California State University, San Bernardino in a four-game 
series. The first two games will be 
at home for UCSD: 6 p.m. on both 
Thursday, April 19 and Friday, April 
20. The following two games will 
be played as a doubleheader on 
Saturday, April 21. Opening pitch 
for the doubleheader is set for 12 
p.m.PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSOn April 11th, the 
UC San Diego 
Athletics Department 
honored twelve 
student athletes for 
their outstanding 
achievements 
in athletics and academics. 
The 24th-ranked UC San Diego 
softball team hosted California 
State University, Stanislaus over 
the weekend in a four-game series. 
Both teams took a pair of victories as the Tritons won the first two of 
the series and the Warriors took 
the last two for the split. UCSD 
now stands at 20–12 in the CCAA, while 27–14 overall. 
Game 1
Behind a stellar pitching e ffort 
from freshman pitcher Robyn Wampler, the Tritons pulled o ff 
a 3–2 tightly contested game to take the series opener at home. 
The freshman pitcher collected 9 
strikeouts and allowed only 2 runs 
in a complete game.
UCSD jumped into a 2–0 lead 
in the first inning and in this 
type of match where runs are at a premium, those 2 runs early in the game made the di fference in 
the end. Throughout, the Triton 
defense took care of business as the Warriors finished with 5 hits.
After the first inning, the 
scoring disappeared as the score stood at 2–0 until the fifth 
inning when the Tritons put in 1 more run to make it a seemingly 
comfortable scoreline, 3–0, the 
way the Tritons kept dominating. 
UCSD looked to have the game 
in the bag, but Stanislaus State showed fight in the last inning as 
the Warriors put the Tritons on the back foot with 2 runs to make the game a lot more interesting at 3–2. However, Wampler put the 
responsibility on her shoulders 
and struck out 2 of the final 3 at 
bat and made the last ground out to earn the win.
Game 2
Much like the first game, a 
low-scoring a ffair took over the 
game as only a single run came in for either team. Fortunately, the 
Tritons scored that 1 run to get 
the victory in the sixth inning. After their second win on Friday 
against Stanislaus State, the UCSD Splits Weekend SeriesUC San Diego Sweeps Stanislaus State in Weekend Homestand
The Tritons won the first two games 3-2 and 1-0. The baseball team wiped the floor with Stanislaus State four times this past weekend, including a firey 17-2 victory in Game 2.
BY Daniel Hernandez
Senior Staff writeR
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS BY Richard Lu
Associate Sports Editor
richard lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
See SOFTBALL,  page 15Top (from left to right)
Earl Edwards, Bryan Brennan, Trevor Jackson, Alexandra Rodman, Kayla Fedler, Joshua Makieve, Joel WermterBottom (from left to right)Molly Dalziel, Maddy Lewis, Taylor Tanita, Mandy Che, Natalie Saddic