Members of the UC Student-Workers 
Union and the UC San Diego Labor Commission held a sit-in on Feb. 1 in 
solidarity with ethnic studies graduate student Krys Mendez, who was terminated from his position as a teaching assistant for the Warren College Writing Program in Sept. due to his ongoing multiple 
sclerosis. Mendez is currently engaged in a dispute 
over reasonable accommodations for his medical condition, and the demonstration culminated in the participants sitting in the lobby as he met with the DisAbility Counseling and Consulting office to 
discuss these issues. 
Mendez has been living with MS, an incurable 
condition that compromises his central nervous 
system, for 11 years. He relies on six different medications to treat it. 
“One of my medications costs $60,000 a year, ” 
Mendez told the UCSD Guardian. “So, for me to go without insurance could be disastrous. ” 
Mendez is largely dependent on his employment 
status for student health insurance. Losing his 
position from the writing program means he loses a 
secure route of accessing health insurance.
“I applied for the writing program and I got it, ” 
Mendez said, “but when I asked for accommodations, that’s when this whole process started. ”
After being offered the position for the 2018-
2019 school year in May of 2018, Mendez was referred to the DCC by the Office for Students with Disabilities to discuss reasonable accommodations 
for his medical condition. He received an email in 
July from DCC Disability Management Counselor Jeanette Richards, explaining what would happen if no reasonable accommodations were available in the position he was offered. “If no reasonable accommodations exist that 
would allow you to perform the essential functions of the TA position we would then look at reassignment, ” 
Richards wrote to Mendez. “Reassignment as 
an accommodation occurs when you cannot be accommodated in the position you have been hired from and there is an open vacant position for which 
you meet the minimum qualifications, can perform 
with or without accommodation, and is not a promotion. ”
Mendez’s specialists filled out paperwork 
provided by the DCC to verify his medical condition 
in order for the office to assess the situation.
On Sept. 6, Mendez received an email from 
the DCC that they had deemed him medically 
unable to work as a TA based on the information they received, and he was subsequently“unassigned” from his TA position with the Warren Writing 
Program, two weeks before the start of Fall Quarter. 
“I followed the recommendations that I was 
given and this still happened, ” Mendez said to the 
Guardian. “For the four and a half years I’ve been 
here, I’ve had [MS]. Even my graduate writing 
program application indicated that. ”
A week later, Mendez filed a grievance with 
Labor Relations. Citing violations of UAW Agreement articles regarding appointment security, 
the grievance asserts that Mendez was not provided 
with reasonable accommodations for his medical condition. At the first grievance meeting, the DCC argued that the process for finding reasonable 
accommodations was still ongoing. 
A change.org petition was launched in response 
to Mendez’s termination, and a letter requesting 
funding to offer him a position was signed by the graduate students in Mendez’s ethnic studies 
UC San Diego Chief 
Information Officer Vince Kellen gave a presentation proposing the implementation of a student technology fee to the A.S. Council on Jan. 30. He was accompanied by 
Director of Academic Technology 
Services Valerie Polichar. The proposed additional fee laid out in the presentation would be $15 per 
quarter but later climb to $60 in the 
coming years.
Kellen argued that as the 
student body grows, the need for a technology fee increases. He 
also cited a surge in the number 
of wireless devices per student, as well as the growth in disciplines and specific courses that require 
technology (such as graphics 
processor units) as justifications for the fee. 
The fees would be directed toward 
improving student computing labs. Both speakers discussed plans to update older computers with faster hardware (meaning faster graphics 
cards and greater memory capacity) 
and to replace hard drives with System Security Services Daemons, which are a means of providing 
caching and online support to VOLUME 52, ISSUE 16  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 11, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD History 
Professor Compares Fall of Rome to U.S. Republic
Edward Watts posits that our 
republics are following similar paths.
A.S. COUNCIL
BY Sydney Mckenna
Contributing writer
A.S. Hears Proposal for New Student Fee for Campus Tech Upgrades
Students perform at the Lunar New Year Celebration at Canyon Vista. UCSD Guardian // Photo by McKenna JohnsonUC San Diego history professor 
Edward Watts released his book 
titled “Mortal Republic: How 
Rome Fell Into Tyranny” on this past Election Day. The book 
is intended to illustrate how the 
Roman Republic transformed from a republic government to an 
autocracy, pointing to factors such 
as financial revolution, the rise of populism, and the emergence of 
violent confrontations between 
political adversaries.  
Watts, who received his Ph.D. 
in history from Y ale University, has been teaching at UCSD with a focus on Byzatine and Roman history 
since 2012. Awed by the nearly 
2000-year duration of Rome and the amount of change that occurred in 
the culture within that time frame, 
he has written five books about his field of study as well as co-edited five 
other volumes. 
Watts emphasized the 
connections between the Roman 
Republic and the United States to 
the UCSD Guardian, noting that 
the American republic was modeled after the Romans’ and is therefore 
exposed to some of the same 
weaknesses that Rome faced. 
“Many of the same stresses that 
caused political conflict in Rome are now beginning to be felt in the U.S., ” Watts said. “This means that 
the lessons of Rome are important 
things for us to keep in mind as we consider how to respond to political 
turmoil in the U.S. ”
While Watts is not a firm believer 
in history repeating itself, he does think it is important to look back 
at issues from the past to determine solutions to modern day problems. 
He holds that everyone in our 
country has the “ability to make choices about what political life will 
look like. We are empowered to 
choose the direction of our country and the direction of its political life. 
History doesn’t determine those 
directions … ” 
Watts further mentioned that 
looking back on history helps determine which direction the country should move towards.
Watts highlights that a state 
of mind is being held now in the U.S. and was held in the Roman 
Republic in which people assume 
a free, representative democracy will last forever and Rome’s history 
demonstrates the very real danger in 
this. According to Watts, the Roman By Tyler Faurot  News editorCAMPUS
Graduate Student Disputes Termination over AccommodationsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
Bones found 
recently under the 
Chancellor’s mansion 
have sparked a debate 
over the rights of 
indiginous groups 
and researchers.
SCHEDULING  ILLNESS
MARIE  KONDOExpanding   Hours
A "NEAT"  Review  of the Neat Opinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Students should 
not be receiving 
medical care that 
is less accessible 
than that of CVS, 
especially when 
UCSD has one of the 
most comprehensive 
healthcare systems in 
the state.”MONDAY
 H 61 L 47
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 58
TUESDAY
H 65 L 54
THURSDAY
H 63 L 57
INSULIN & DIABETES.......4
QUINCY TROUPE.............9
INTIMACY ........................11
THANK YOU, NEXT.........12
M. WATERPOLO.............16UCSD
Adriana Barrios
UC Ship
PAGE 4If the proposal goes to a vote, the student body will decide whether to add a $15 quarterly fee for Fall 2019.
BY  abigail staggemeier
staff writer 
See DISPUTE,  page 3BONES UNDER THE 
CHANCELLOR’S HOUSE
Features, page 6
See ROME,  page 3 See TECH FEES,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS 2 By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. RIP Thots who 
get bread (and various gluten-free allies).
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-
Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Friday, February 1
1:15 a.m. Public IntoxicationLot P206: Intoxicated male outside 
in rain not wearing shoes
Transported to Detox 7:56 a.m. Petty Theft: Bicycle Parts
Unknown subject stole front 
wheel from bicycle at Matthews Apartments, loss $100Report Taken1:00 p.m. Vehicle Burglary
Unknown suspect(s) gained entry 
into locked vehicle at Gliderport by unknown means and stole miscellaneous property, loss $6,932
Report Taken
2:30 p.m. Vehicle BurglaryUnknown suspect(s) forced entry into locked vehicle at East Campus Parking Structure and stole 
miscellaneous property, loss $3
Report Taken3:57 p.m. Vehicle BurglaryUnknown suspect forced entry into 
locked vehicle at Athena Parking 
Structure and stole victim’s gym bag, loss $400 Report Taken4:39 p.m. Welfare Check
Reporting party at Douglas Hall 
received email regarding ex ‐
boyfriend possibly wanting to harm self
Checks OK
7:44 p.m. Welfare CheckStudent threatened suicide in email to teaching assistant Referred to Other UCSD Department: Counseling And Psychological Services
Saturday, February 2
3:32 a.m. Assault / Larceny / Drug Law ViolationMale seen at Tenaya Hall possibly 
casing bicycles was found in 
possession of burglary tools and a controlled substanceClosed by Other Means1:35 p.m. Petty Theft
Reporting party confronted unknown adult male at Marshall Residence Hall attempting to take bicycle 
Gone On Arrival 
3:21 p.m. Assist Other AgencyVehicle floating in water at Gilman Drive and La Jolla Village Drive intersection, two people stuck 
inside 
Referred to Other Agency: San Diego Fire Department and San Diego Police Department
6:20 p.m. Gas / Water / Sewer 
LeakFlooding in the hallway of Science and Engineering Research FacilityReferred to Other UCSD 
Department
9:06 p.m. Welfare CheckReporting party at UCSD Police Department received Facebook 
message from friend threatening 
suicide refused to provide location of friend Information OnlySunday, February 311:04 a.m. Citizen ContactGasoline can and other chemical 
found on Par Course 
Referred To Other UCSD Department: Central Plant3:00 p.m. Grand Theft
Stolen solar panels and batteries 
from Che Café, loss $1466 Report Taken 7:09 p.m. Welfare CheckRock thrown at bus near Veterans 
Affairs Hospital, causing bus driver 
to push panic button Checks OK
Tuesday, February 5
6:07 a.m. InformationSeveral vehicles with windows smashed in at La Jolla Village Drive and Torrey Pines Road
Referred to Other Agency: San 
Diego Police Department7:18 a.m. Public IntoxicationConcerns regarding employee 
possibly coming into work at 64 
Degrees intoxicatedReferred to Other UCSD Department 8:40 a.m. Non-Injury Collision
Collision involving University 
of California vehicle and parked vehicle at Executive Drive and Genesee Avenue
Report Taken 
10:20 a.m. Suspicious PersonUnknown male entered Biomedical Research Facility requesting scientists to conduct medical research on him to diagnose illness Stay Away Order Issued12:43 p.m. Medical Aid
Female at Price Center fainted after 
donating blood Referred to Other Agency: San Diego Fire-Rescue Department
4:47 p.m. Grand Theft
Unknown suspect(s) stole electric skateboard at Goody’s Market, loss $1,000Report Taken
6:41 p.m. Disturbance: Psych 
SubjectResident Advisor received text messages from male student at 
Argo Hall threatening suicide, 
Transported to Hospital
Wednesday, Febr uar y 6
8:49 a.m. Under the Influence of 
Drugs
Male yelling aggressively at La Scala Apartment HomesReferred to Other Agency: San 
Diego Police Department
12:52 p.m. Medical AidFemale tripped and fell at Price Center and lost consciousness, medical transportation declined 
Service Provided
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
program. Brad Werner, professor of 
environmental physics and faculty affiliate in ethnic studies, also sent 
a letter on Mendez’s’ behalf to the 
Vice Chancellor of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion on Jan. 7.
“Krys has not received an 
accommodation for the remainder of the year and, as of this writing, might lose their student health 
insurance and a salary for winter 
quarter, ” Werner’s letter reads. “In 
my view, Krys’ situation constitutes 
a clear case of inequity and a failure 
to provide an inclusive environment 
for a student with a disability. ”
While the dispute with the DCC 
has played out, Mendez has been working as a 25-percent reader position for HIEU 102, which was a job created for him by a faculty member with extra research 
funding and is independent from 
the DCC. According to Mendez, the readership was the result of letters of support from many members of his 
department
“I just feel like I’m still unsettled 
by all this,” Mendez told the 
Guardian. “I’ve been living quarter 
to quarter. I have no idea whether 
I’m going to have insurance in six 
weeks. ”
UAW Local 2865 Head Steward 
John Saraccino and bargaining team member Angela Berti accompanied Mendez during the discussion on Feb. 1. After the discussion, they addressed the group that came out in support.
“The labor relation’s position and 
the DCC’s position is that they have a legal obligation to accommodate for existing positions, ” Saraccino said. “However, they feel that they 
do not have an obligation to invent 
jobs. In Kyrs’ case, they feel that they are not obligated to provide any 
security for him. ”
“They feel like they’re legally 
obligated to try to give you some 
kind of accommodation, but if, at 
the end of the day, it doesn’t work 
out, then that’s just too bad and they’ve done all they can, ” Berti said. “This is not at all satisfying. If the DCC is saying they’re doing all that they can … then we look at what the next level up is. ”
“Obviously, this is an ongoing 
fight, ” Mendez said to the solidarity group that followed him to the office, “but to see that disability is back on the agenda, I think in and 
of itself is already a victory. ”
Mendez told the Guardian 
that he is partly relieved by the 
momentum on campus, especially 
about the larger issue of how to deal 
with disability in hiring practices.  
The Guardian reached out to 
the DCC office for comment. In 
response, Strategic Marketing and Communications sent a statement on behalf of the campus.
“While we cannot comment on individual personnel matters, [UCSD] is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to 
individuals with disabilities as 
required by law, ” the statement reads.
Arbitrations between the union 
and Labor Relations are currently being scheduled to meet the availability of all parties involved. 
Labor Relations Advocate Nooria 
Faizi wrote in October that the 
University intends to challenge 
the arbitrability of the case for 
“procedural ineligibility.”
UAW and Mendez Are Set to Go to Arbitration After an Impasse With the Disability Counseling and Consulting Office
▶ DISPUTE , from page 1
a system. The virtual lab would 
also be updated so that students may use more specialized software 
via personal laptops. Classroom 
podcasts, features, and access to Glass would be updated as well.
Current connection issues in 
popular locations, such as Galbraith Hall, Geisel Library, and Price Center, are a result of the uneven distribution of access points, X explained. Some access points 
within highly trafficked network 
areas, such as the fifth floor of Geisel Library, are only used by one or two users, while other access points 
in the same building experience 
overuse.
“The wireless access points that 
UCSD uses can handle roughly 40 people connecting devices to 
them at once, ” Polichar wrote in 
an email to the UCSD Guardian. “When we look at the average number of devices connected to 
each access point in a building, if 
we see that number is over 40, that building almost certainly is giving folks a terrible wireless experience. Wireless [connection] might seem 
slow, or [the access point]might 
drop your connection, or you might not be able to associate with it at all. ”
UCSD’s Information Technology Services will focus on improving internet connection in Geisel Library, Price Center, large 
classrooms, and lecture halls by 
automating error reports before they affect users.
The proposed technology fees 
would be directed toward the addition of access points with the hopes of improving the overall campus internet experience. If all goes as the proposal intends, 
students could expect to experience 
reduced intermittent access and a decrease in connection drops. 
“ As both a student and UCSD IT 
employee, I think that increasing the number of access points and updating the existing systems is a good idea, ” John Muir College junior Alexander Schonken told 
the Guardian. “I’m frustrated that 
another fee may be added to the large sum of money I already pay to the campus, but upgrades are 
always needed, and if they can be 
accomplished in a timely manner, then the extra money may be worth the benefit to the student body. ”
The existing $9 million of core-
funded spending, comprised of state and UC general funds and system-wide tuition and fees, would be augmented by revenue generated from the fees. It would then be directed toward the improvement of instructional and classroom 
technology, which UCSD would 
otherwise not have the budget to sustain. At present, UCSD IT funding is obtained from state and 
core general funds, as well as faculty 
funding. 
The proposed fee would be 
implemented at $15 per quarter beginning in the 2019-2020 
academic year. The fee would 
increase each quarter by $15 until 2023, when the fee will have reached $60 per quarter. Beginning in 2024, 
the fee would be based on the 
consumer price index, a measure of the overall cost of the goods and services bought by the average student. UCSD Chief Financial 
Officer Pierre Ouillet has offered to 
loan funding to the program to allow for the immediate implementation of changes. 
Other UC campuses have already 
implemented technology fees. At $34, UC Berkeley currently imposes the lowest fee, while UCLA charges $108 quarterly for technological 
access. At $60 per quarter by 2022, 
UCSD’s technology fee would be the median fee among other UC campuses. The A.S. Council will vote on 
what the proposed changes will be, as any fee or non-fee referendum 
must first be approved by it before 
being voted on by the student body. The final language for the referendum is not yet available, 
though the A.S. Committee on 
Financial Oversight is expected to meet with the Graduate Student Association to finalize the language in coming weeks. 
If approved, the proposed 
changes could be implemented by as early as Fall Quarter 2019. The IT Department welcomes feedback 
from the A.S. Council, university 
newspapers, and university marketing outlets on how best to educate students about the proposed changes. Republic died because the idea that 
the republic was indestructible made 
people complacent and so they did 
nothing to protect it. 
Also arguing that because people 
in this day and age have the ability to look back on the rise and fall of one of the world’s most famous 
republics, Watts contends that 
Americans today should know better than the Romans who couldn’t look 
back to other examples. 
“We should take steps to be sure 
that politicians and voters value the laws and traditions that make our 
republic successful, ” Watts said. “If we don’t do that, we run the risk of 
being as complacent as the Romans. 
And then our republic is as much in danger of failing as Rome’s republic 
was. ” 
“Mortal Republic - How Rome 
Fell Into Tyranny” has been released by publisher Basic Books and is 
being sold by Amazon, Apple Books, Google Play, and Barnes and Noble. 
The New T ech Fees W ould be Used to Fund More Access Points for the Internet Around Campus Watts: Value Traditions
▶ TECH FEES , from page 1 ▶ ROME , from page 1tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.org
abigail staggemeier  astaggem@ucsd.edu sydney mckenna  smckenn@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
One of the goals of the Student Health Services is to provide “... accessible 
and timely primary care ...” to the students of UC San Diego. This is hard to 
believe when one looks at the times during which the center is open. The working hours resemble those of an office or a clinic, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., except Monday and Tuesday when these hours are extended to 6 p.m. for limited services. If this was a satellite clinic of a more complex web of health services accessible to the student body, such a limited schedule would be understandable. However, for the people who depend on SHS for their entire medical services, this is extremely inconvenient. 
 Between classes, extracurriculars, 
and work, it is difficult for students to find the time to make doctor’s appointments in the middle of the workday. This is especially true for undergraduate first and second years, who are still learning how to manage their time and getting their bearings on this transition time. They are also the population most likely to depend on SHS for service because they are the people who live on-campus. Constricting the student schedule to that of a normal clinic disregards the fact that this is a college campus, and that the services available here are supposed to be for students. 
Ideally, appointment-based services would be open until 8 p.m., seven 
days a week, accommodating for the myriad of occupations that are taken up by the student body. This is comparable to the clinic services provided by the CVS closest to campus. Students should not be receiving medical care that is less accessible than that of CVS, especially when UCSD has one of the most comprehensive healthcare systems in the state. 
 The UrgentCare on-campus should be open 24/7, which would allow 
for students to have access to emergency healthcare within their own campus when they need it, not when the school is willing to give it. Having an on-duty physician at all times would allow for students to receive emergency care at walking distance from their dorm, instead of having to Uber or Lyft to off-campus emergency facilities. It is difficult for even full-fledged adults to know what to do in time of a health crisis, much less a college student, and with the added stress of monetary cost for transport, off-hours emergencies can become deeply stressful and exacerbate already delicate situations. For students living on campus, especially first-years who aren’t allowed to have a car, having a medical problem after 4 p.m. on weekdays, after 12 p.m. on Saturdays or at all on Sundays means having to pay to be driven to receive medical treatment, a 
financial barrier not all can bypass
 Accessibility doesn’t just include 
the hours of operation but also the location of student health. In the case of an emergency, students that live in Eleanor Roosevelt College, The Village, Earl Warren College, and Sixth College are all significantly isolated from SHS. If they were to commit to staying open for 24/7 urgent care, an expansion on the TritonRides or Accessibility transportation should be made available to make sure that students who are physically separated from healthcare facilities can still access it. The TritonRide expansion should occur regardless 
of whether or not SHS expands their hours of operation, shuttling students to the closest emergency room free of charge. Students should not have to delay treatment due to the poor planning of the school.
 Fundamentally, accessibility boils down to the fact that students cannot 
plan ahead for medical care. The university cannot provide timely care if it keeps with corporate schedules and hopes students have the means to transport themselves to the facilities. This is supposed to be a service to help students, not another box that needs to be ticked off to remain an accredited institution and it is high time that reforms are made for the student body. Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
Resources for Diabetic Students Fail to Address Realities of On-Campus LifeScheduling Illness: Why Student Health Services 
Needs to Expand Their Hours
In the United States, one out of every 300 students who enroll in secondary 
educational institutions deals with some form of diabetes, a condition that 
results from high blood sugar and insufficient insulin to convert those sugars into energy. In today’s capitalist economy, there’s little to no surprise when it comes to insulin inflation and pharmaceutical companies having a field day with medication pricing. Diabetes affects over 10 percent of the American population, and big name companies like Novo Nordisk or Sanofi have found a way to profit off the condition. With diabetes growing as a threat to the American population, especially college students, it is important to keep the individual’s needs in mind; in terms of medication prices, as well as opportunities to better one’s lifestyle with the condition.
Type 1 diabetes is characterized as an autoimmune disease in which one’s 
body ceases production of insulin at a very young age, whereas Type 2 diabetes usually develops when the body cannot produce enough insulin or the cells have become resistant to it. Both types of diabetes require some sort of treatment, be it insulin for Type 1 or blood thinners and pancreas-stimulating medication for Type 2. Diabetes also requires a change in lifestyle: eating healthier, getting active, and various therapies can help prevent further health issues like stroke or heart disease. However, both of these medications have been monetized by pharmaceutical companies in the last decade, and prices have skyrocketed since then.
The cost of insulin itself has more than quadrupled in the last 10- years, 
increasing by almost 600 percent between 2002 and 2015. The price of a single vial, depending on the brand, clocks out to around $270 today, in comparison to $35 10 years ago. Even drug products anticipated to provide a lower-cost option for the market eventually fail to do so; drug trials can last for years on end, providing ample time for their patents to expire. Depending on whether or not one is on an insurance plan, that out-of-pocket cost could range anywhere from $1000 to $7,000 per year. 
In 2015, over 93,000 individuals under the age of 20 were diagnosed with 
diabetes, and over 7,700 were enrolled in secondary education. The average student on UC SHIP, UC San Diego’s campus healthcare, usually pays $2,500 out of pocket each year with no financial aid. The insurance does not even cover all insulins, and much more than insulin goes into managing diabetes. 
By Adriana Barrios   Opinion editor
By rajee ganesan   Contributing Writer“Students should not be 
receiving medical care that is 
less accessible than that of CVS, 
especially when UCSD has 
one of the most comprehensive 
healthcare systems in the state.”OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2019
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
RUN CRYSIS  
By System 32
rajee ganesan   rganesan@ucsd.eduOutside of medication, students with diabetes must maintain a 
stable blood sugar level, which means eating healthy, exercising, 
and maintaining a balanced lifestyle — efforts that seem nearly impossible on campus. Other than salad or soups, many of the dining halls such as 64 Degrees or Canyon Vista offer little to no healthy, 
vegan, or vegetarian options. Instead, the establishments push hearty 
meals like cheeseburgers, pizza, or today’s Cafe Ventana’s special, the Koagie Sandwich, which alone accounts for a whopping 142 percent of the recommended daily value in fat. Students should not have to resort to a single dining hall that focuses solely on vegan and vegetarian cuisine in order to find meals that satisfy their dietary needs. As students move into apartments with their own kitchens and are free to cook for themselves, the process becomes a little less tedious. However, it still remains an issue for first-years living in large resident halls with a single communal kitchen.
UCSD does have resources available for those who seek them 
out, such as nutritional counseling or pre-made meals for people with specific dietary restrictions. However, these resources can be overbearing for students who would like to enjoy college life and maintain a sense of independence, rather than eating pre-made dinners they had no choice in making. UCSD must be held accountable for offering more resources for students with dietary restrictions, whether diabetes or other metabolism-related diseases. 
There are appeals processes to receive more funding from UC 
SHIP, much of which goes unused simply due to the fact that many students are unaware of the opportunity. The health office must work toward informing students of available copays or assistance programs and offer resources to aid them through their transition into a new lifestyle. In addition, Housing Dining Hospitality should take into account on-campus residents’ dietary needs and requirements and make menu choices accessible to students with such restrictions instead of pointing them to the salad bar every night.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
were under dispute 
regarding who should take possession of them. The act expressly requires that “culturally unidentifiable” remains be repatriated to the Indian tribes who are aboriginal to the land where the remains were discovered. After it was passed, the university’s human-remains policies were designed to comply with NAGPRA. 
However, NAGPRA 
itself is conflictory. NAGPRA expressly requires that “culturally unidentifiable” remains be repatriated to the Indian tribes who are aboriginal to the land where the remains were discovered; however, according to 25 U.S.C. § 3005, it does not govern the disposition of remains that are not determined to be “Native American.” Therefore, determining the Native American identity of these remains became the main focus of this case. However, what was also prominent in the process of repatriation was the extent of legal pluralism. This is defined as the existence of both federal and Indian legal systems that determine which party has final jurisdiction over the human remains.
So, what are the rights and wrongs in dealing with these scientifically and 
culturally valuable remains?
Tribal nations exist within the United States, but how are they “nations 
within a nation” and what legal powers do they possess?  
The Supreme Court case Cherokee Nation v. Georgia of 1831 (in which 
the Cherokee Nation sought a federal injunction against laws passed by the FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
MADELINE PARK & JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
“Well, you have to take a step 
back. What if these are your 
people’s bones?” 
After a moment of pause she sighed, 
turning toward me and looking into my eyes. “Of course it is for science … but with 
everything [that happened], it is very hard 
[for Native Americans] to build trust in [the] 
federal government. ” 
Professor Heather Ponchetti Daly, a 
lecturer from the UC San Diego ethnic studies 
department, is a tribal woman who grew up 
in the Diegueño Kumeyaay reservation in north San Diego county. She told me about her personal stand on the issue of scientific research and analysis conducted on Native American remains, specifically about the University House Burial Case.
In the summer of 1976, beneath what is 
now the chancellor’s residence, known as the University House located on the oceanside cliffs of La Jolla, two human remains were unearthed. 
Later, these Paleo-indian remains were 
dated to be 8,977 to 9,603 years old, making them some of the oldest in the nation. In the years since their discovery, the Native American remains have travelled to numerous locations all around the nation, including several universities and museums. Today, they are stored at the San Diego Archaeological Center by mutual agreement between UCSD and the Kumeyaay Cultural Repatriation Committee.
You might wonder why these remains were 
transferred from place to place throughout the decade. Since these remains were discovered on UCSD property, why couldn’t they just be kept  at our school for scientific studies? Or, since these human remains were identified as Native American, why haven’t they been returned to the rightful Native American tribe — in this particular case the Kumeyaays, who are aboriginal to the land where the remains were discovered?
Before the Native American Graves 
Protection and Repatriation Act, these remains  
UCSD's  Ba ttle  for  the  bones  found  
under  the  chancellor's  mansion
In 1976, Native American remains were unearthed beneath what is now the UC San Diego chancellor’s 
residence. Th e University House Burial Case o ffers an opening for examining the extent of legal 
pluralism in regards to indigenous rights; under our current legal system, does the tribe or federal government have the fi nal say?
Two 9,500-year-old human remains were discovered beneath what is 
now the chancellor’s home in 1976.
SeeHUMAN REMAINS , page 7PHOTO COURTESY OF JAN AUSTINBy Lingchen  L ynette  Dang   contributing writerFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
▶ HUMAN REMAINS , from page 6
U.S. state of Georgia that deprived them of rights within state boundaries) describes 
tribes as “domestic dependent nations, ” meaning that the tribal nations are self-governing sovereign entities within their lands. However, they are subject to Congress’ plenary power over Indian tribes, with “the supreme authority to modify or even eliminate their powers of self-governance. ” 
Professor Ross Frank from 
the UCSD ethnic studies department, a respected expert in Native American studies, reflected on legal pluralism and the hardship of determining the jurisdiction of federal law on tribal lands. 
“The Supreme Court has 
made it very difficult for Indians to have power over any non-Indian if they commit a crime on the reservation, ” he said. “So for example, when it comes to domestic abuse or rape or anything else, because it’s a federal crime and that federal jurisdiction over non-Indians on reservations takes precedence, the tribal court can’t really do anything. And there the federal government doesn’t have any interest in actually prosecuting these these crimes. ” 
This pattern of crimes has occurred a multitude of times throughout history, 
even as recently as the Muscogee Creek 
Nation Land murder case. Moreover, 
studies show that legal pluralism gives way 
to a malfunctioned system of justice that 
encourages law-breaking, thus increasing crime rates on reservations. 
The federal government’s position on the 
legal pluralism dispute is very clear — to 
make tribal nations the authority on the 
land given by the federal government and to give federal law precedence over tribal laws. Tribal governments, on the other hand, aspire to maintain jurisdiction over crimes 
committed on their reservations and over the 
law enforcement process that follows.
Over the years, a recurring theme of 
conflict in a majority of treaties between the 
federal government and tribal nations reflects 
their power dynamic. While competing for 
land, both sides have tried to come up with 
a resolution to address their conflicting interests through treaties. However, as an attempt to tackle conflict with a final solution, 
a single treaty would often fail to be enacted 
within a short period of time. This gives rise 
to a series of treaties with policies going back and forth like a pendulum. The key issue that both parties wish to resolve is the extent of 
legal pluralism.
Such legal pluralism also affects the 
University House Burial case’s final ruling. 
Although Congress has the ultimate power to modify or even eliminate the power of 
tribal governments, the sovereign immunity 
of Indian tribes under NAGPRA can not 
be waived. According to the Constitution and the newly rectified NAGPRA clause about repatriation of human remains, the Kumeyaays have rightful sovereignty over 
their remains. The conversation surrounding the  
University House 
Burial case has 
gradually diminished with the Supreme Court’s rejection to 
hear and review the 
case, but it leaves us 
with some important contemplation. The manifestation of 
legal pluralism is now a challenge for our 
generation.Chancellor Khosla’s residence , known as the Audrey Geisel University House, is registered 
as a historic site. 
“Over the years, a recurring 
theme of conflict in a majority 
of treaties between the federal 
government and tribal nations 
reflects their power dynamic. ”
Lingchen  L ynette  Dang    lid006@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF PATCH.COMA&E EDITORS // DAISY SCOTT & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Feb. 19, the Japanese American Day of 
Remembrance, marks President Franklin 
D. Roosevelt’s signing of Executive Order 
9066. That order led to the internment of over 
120,000 Japanese Americans during World 
War II. To commemorate this turning point 
in history, the UC San Diego Nikkei Student Union hosted a free showing of “The Ito Sisters: 
An American Story, ” followed by a Q&A with 
director and producer Antonia Grace Glenn and scholar Evelyn Nakano Glenn. The event 
was held in Price Center Theater on Friday, Feb. 
8. Kevin Amemiya, the Cultural Chair of the Nikkei Student Union, said in reference to the 
widespread mistreatment of Japanese Americans, 
“These documentaries are a great way to inform audiences of how real this was, and not just that 
it can happen once, but that it can happen again. ”
 “The Ito Sisters: An American Story” 
combines the historical backdrop of the 20th century, particularly around the time of World 
W ar II, with the lived experiences of three Japanese American sisters: Natsuye (Nancy), Hideko 
(Hedy), and Haruye (Lillian). As survivors of the 
Japanese internment camps, the sisters recount personal stories of their parents, who immigrated 
from Japan to America, and of each other — all 
in the form of candid home videos. The videos were taken by other family members, such as director Antonia Grace Glenn, the granddaughter 
of Lillian, during the early 2000s. They had never 
heard of some of the sisters’ stories, who were well into their 80s and 90s, and took the opportunity 
to interview and record them. The project started 
as a way to archive some family memories, but it ultimately evolved into an effort to preserve an 
often-overlooked part of American history.
 The documentary addresses the long 
history of anti-Japanese sentiment in America, particularly in California, through the use of 
various primary sources such as racially-charged newspaper clippings, quotes from presidents and 
governors, and propaganda. From the outright 
banning of all Asian immigration to suffering attacks from white agricultural laborers, the 
precarious political climate of the early 20th 
century created a volatile stage for the lives of the Ito sisters and their parents. 
 The home videos, as the director 
explained in the Q&A, are not professionally filmed; sometimes plane engines drown out the 
sisters’ words or the camera zooms too closely into 
their faces. This amateur style, however, offers a layer of honest vulnerability and a sense of familial 
intimacy to the interviews. In the interviews, the 
three sisters reflected upon their memories with a surprising amount of humor, cracking jokes about each other’s younger selves. They also 
spoke bluntly about their arranged marriages (“I 
don’t remember [my first husband], ” shrugged one sister) and attending segregated schools (they 
apparently couldn’t grasp the larger implications 
of segregation as children). They recalled, with clear admiration for their parents’ hard work, 
their family’s endurance through challenges like 
the Great Depression, the internment camps, and their mother’s subsequent cancer. To supplement 
these stories, the documentary incorporates 
animations resembling colorful paper cutouts and an emotional original score “evocative of a 
time gone by, ” as one audience member put it.
 Despite technical difficulties during 
the screening, the audience, some of whom were related to the sisters, and the panel engaged in 
a thoughtful, casual Q&A session. For example, the uniqueness of the sisters’ storytelling was 
discussed. The sisters shared about the injustices 
they had experienced first-hand with stoicism, composure, and even positivity (“the food was 
pretty good at the camps, ” one sister chuckled). 
The fact that they were even willing to share their experiences was remarkable, because it is 
common for other survivors, many of whom have 
passed away, to not even tell their children about it. Lately, however, as mentions of other similar films were brought up during the Q&A, the 
growing number of stories surfacing is promising 
in keeping such stories alive.
 When asked about their concluding 
thoughts, Antonia Grace Glenn and Evelyn Nakano Glenn brought up two topics. Evelyn, also a granddaughter of one sister, drew parallels 
between the sisters’ stories and today’s issues 
of family separation at the border and the incarceration of children. By telling the stories of 
these three women, she hoped to raise awareness 
for current immigration issues and reduce “the long-term emotional impact” on generations of 
families. Antonia expressed her desire to show 
the work and domestic lives of women, which, she believes, is a core part of history that is not 
regarded nor respected enough. She finished 
by encouraging the audience to find out about their elders’ histories. Like “The Ito Sisters, ” there 
are stories out there worth sharing and learning 
from.
— Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff Writer
EVENT  REVIEW
"The  Ito  Sisters: An  American  Story" showing  and  discussionPHOTO COURTESY OF CAPRADIO.ORG
Event Dates   Februrary 8, 2019
Venue   Price Center TheaterCA-
A documentary centered around the interviews of three sisters, “ The Ito Sisters: An American Story” is a pertinent reminder of Japanese-
Americans’ experiences during California’s anti-Japanese movement.
Marie Kondo “sparks joy” for viewers in her recent Net flix series.
“Tidying Up” follows the typical home 
makeover structure. First, we meet the unhappy 
homeowners — beleaguered young couples 
unable to deal with adulthood or toddlers, nuclear 
families with nuclear closets, senior citizens coming to terms with an empty nest. We hear their stories, understand who they are: children 
hoping to prove to their parents that they’ve 
grown up, couples who live with much stress that the romance is dead, frazzled mothers adjusting to a smaller home, a grieving widow unsure of how clean up her departed husband’s things. 
Enter Marie Kondo: the tiny force of nature about 
to change their lives with some tips and tricks, an appreciation for lots of cute little boxes, and some good old-fashioned sweetness.
Some background, just in case you’ve been 
living under a rock until recently (and probably a poorly organized rock indeed): Marie Kondo is a Japanese organizing consultant whose organization tips, her popular KonMari method, 
have revolutionized the way people approach 
tidying up. As we see in her Netflix show “Tidying Up, ” some of her methods have their roots in the Shinto tradition; she greets each house by kneeling and closing her eyes for a quiet moment before getting into organizing, and she encourages her clients to verbally thank 
everything they get rid of. The key element of the 
KonMari method is whether or not something “sparks joy. ” It’s a sensation that she does her best to explain to each of her clients throughout the 
show, some catching on quicker than others in 
trying to identify the little voice inside them that shouts whether something is worth holding onto or not.
This is where “Tidying Up” stops being 
“Hoarders” or “Extreme Home Makeover. ” This is where it happily joins the ranks of more positive reality shows alongside “Queer Eye” and “The Great British Baking Show. ” The people Kondo 
meets are not there to be judged or marveled 
at; their mess is understandable, the kind even the neatest person might have if they have too much on their plate. It’s very easy to see yourself in the people Kondo visits. So easy, that chances 
are you’re going to find yourself stacking your 
clothes vertically so you can stop rifling through your drawers and stacking all your clothes onto your bed wondering which of them “spark joy. ” Y ou may even find yourself following along and thanking the pieces of clothing that don’t before tossing them in the “donate” pile. 
This is the other key part of Kondo’s charm 
and what differentiates “Tidying Up” from its contemporaries. Despite that we are “tidying up with” Marie Kondo, Kondo herself hardly lifts 
so much as a finger, and neither does a team of 
professionals behind her. The families chosen for the show are not whisked away for a fabulous vacation, returning to find a refurbished house. Instead, Kondo walks them through the steps of 
what they need to do, teaching them to fold their 
socks and let go of what they no longer need, and then disappears for days at a time, checking in a few times over the course of a month to check on 
their progress and impart some more wisdom. 
The result of watching “Tidying Up” isn’t wishing that Kondo would come clean up your own house; it’s feeling motivated enough to apply these techniques to your own life.
The one critique of “Tidying Up” is that, after 
a point, Kondo’s strategies can begin to feel a bit redundant. Pile your closet on the bed, fold your clothes vertically, organize miscellaneous items in boxes — we quickly learn the drill. And unlike many other shows, “Tidying Up” doesn’t try to compensate by digging deeper into the people’s 
lives. This isn’t to say that it doesn’t contain any 
compelling human elements. The show actually reaches out to people from many walks of life and hits some genuinely touching notes as well: 
couples reconnecting, one man wanting his 
parents to feel proud of him, and even a widow moving on from her husband’s death. Y ou just might feel like you’ve heard about the KonMari method one too many times if you decide to 
binge it in a single sitting.
Both wholesome and genuinely helpful, 
“Tidying Up With Marie Kondo” happily tackles 
the messy parts of life without judgement. From 
cleaning the closet to bookshelves to the garage, 
it’s a show that’s sure to inspire.
—  Chloe  esser 
A&E Editor
TV   REVIEW
Tidying  up with  marie  kondoPHOTO COURTESY OF PEOPLE.COM
Created by   Marie Kondo
Starring  Marie Kondo
Airing   Available on Net flixCaA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Former UC San Diego professor Quincy 
Troupe made his return to campus this past Wednesday with a poetry reading 
and a discussion with colleague and composer Anthony Davis. I took a friend of mine to hear Troupe read a selection of poems from across his nine volumes of work and share 
electrifying anecdotes about his upbringing 
and career.
From 1991 to 2003, Troupe was a professor 
of Caribbean and American literatures at UCSD. Before stepping down as a professor, 
he was nominated to be poet laureate of the 
state of California. Over the course of his career, Troupe has also worked alongside music legend Miles Davis, for whom Troupe 
penned a biography in the ’80s. His memoir 
“Miles and Me” is currently in production to become a major motion picture. To an eclectic audience of young and 
old, professors and students, aging beatniks and wide-eyed hipsters, Troupe dazzled the 
Loft with a masterful command of emotion 
through the medium of the written word. This wasn’t just limited to his poetry, as the stories that Troupe told were just as engrossing.
Troupe spun long yarns of growing up 
exposed to music and musicians in his hometown of St. Louis, and how these experiences informed his writing style.
“I always thought that iambic pentameter 
… needed to be syncopated like the blues and jazz, ” Troupe told the crowd.
Before his poem for Miles Davis, he regaled 
the audience with stories of his time with the 
legendary trumpeter, including the first time 
he visited him at his home on 79th and Fifth in New Y ork City.“When I got to write this story on him 
for Spin Magazine, ” Troupe recounted, “I went over to his house. … He’s looking at me 
behind sunglasses, and he reaches up across 
the table and grabs my hair, and asks ‘How you getcho hair like dat?’ So I smacked his hand, BANG! And he goes, ‘M-----f--- you 
crazy?’ And I said, ‘Just because I’m here to 
do a story on you don’t give you no reason to invade my f------ space!’ He looked at me, and I saw a little twitch going around his mouth. He said, ‘Where the f--- are you from?’ I say, 
‘St. Louis, Missouri, ’ and he says, ‘now I know 
you f------ crazy!’ That’s when he takes his glasses off and says, ‘Well m-----------, don’t just sit there, ask me a question!’ I was only 
supposed to be there an hour and a half, I 
was there for 12 hours. He cooked food and everything, and that’s how I got to meet him. ” In his poem about Davis, Troupe paid 
homage to the musician’s legacy but was also able to capture the spirit of his music in his voice. With the inflections of Troupe’s voice 
running up and down, words that were held 
onto or staccatoed, one could have felt that 
this was a kind of incantation of Miles’ spirit 
— as though in some transmutive sense, Davis 
was still playing through Troupe, his music 
now taking the form of words. 
Troupe recited, “This was a great poet on 
his instrument. His horn could blow warm, 
round notes that spoke to the deepest human emotions, and it spit out cracked trills that 
evoked the angry sound of bullets firing … 
His sound could penetrate like a sharp knife, it could also be muted, tender, and low, like a lullaby. ”
Troupe recites his poetry the same way 
a masterful jazz musician plays their stuff. The textural and sonic quality of each word is emphasized with meticulously placed cadences in the voice, and in this way, the 
words on the page take on a new life, like 
notes on sheet music flowing through warm brass. The friend I had brought with me confessed after the show, “I’ve never heard 
poetry read like that before: it took on a whole 
new life. ” 
I’m disappointed I didn’t know more 
about Troupe before going to see him. He’s undeniably genuine and cool, one of those 
rare artist types who is still madly in love with 
his craft even after having found mastery in it. I feel I’ve been graced to have been witness to such a stroke of genius in only two hours.
—  Tyler  Faurot
Contributing WriterThere was no accompanying music for the Wednesday night reading. The poet’s words were rhythmic and 
melodious all their own.
Location  The Loft
Concert Date   February 6, 2018QUINCY  TROUPE  Reading  and  discussionPHOTO COURTESY OF AFRICANVOICES.COM
CA+EVENT  REVIEW
ALBUM   REVIEW
Summer Walker, the 22-year-old rising rhythm and blues star, made her presence felt in 
the new year as she released an emotional and powerful four-track extended play titled “CLEAR. ” The EP comes in at a shockingly short 11 minutes with only four tracks. 
Following the success of her debut project “Last Day of Summer, ” which featured songs such as “Girls Need Love” and “CPR,” Walker could be found on just about everyone’s up-and-coming artist list. She is currently signed to LVRN Records, also home to other Atlanta artists including 6lack and DRAM. Under the LVRN label, Walker debuted her EP on Jan. 28 and caused plenty 
of conversation across the industry. 
 “CLEAR” is vastly personal and has heavy jazz influences that do not stray far from 
the usual makeup of a Summer Walker track. The intro track “Riot” currently sits at No. 23 
on Billboard’s R&B Songs Chart, showing the momentum the young artist is building. It is a moving piece that follows a smooth guitar progression while Walker beautifully crafts a haunting 
melody. As the track builds, Walker showcases her vocal range, masterfully hitting falsetto notes 
that leave listeners with goosebumps. The track itself is rather simple, made up of not much more than vocals and guitar; however, the content of the track easily makes up for anything it may be lacking in production. Walker crafts a story of conflicting needs with a lover, repeating several 
times, “for my love, I need a riot, a riot, ” in a longing tone that reflects a craving for something 
more. The track ends with a few lines repeating, “love’s too routine, ” instilling a somber tone for the rest of the songs to follow.
 The next track, “Grave, ” is much more upbeat and swingy, opening with beautiful 
synths and progressing into a powerful bassline layered with various percussion instruments. The 
track powerfully communicates the experience of being manipulated by men and how Walker 
will hold herself to a higher standard. She delivers several strong one-liners, such as “What do you get with a body without the soul?” that are complimented by her powerful delivery. Walker continues to showcase her ability to seamlessly hit the falsetto, and she displays her versatility with a quicker delivery, which works nicely over the bouncing bassline. The track is washed out 
for about 30 seconds with stirring vocal riffs that continue to amaze the listener. 
 As the EP reaches the second half, the piece “Wasted” steals the show. Walker addresses 
the topic of being reliant on an individual who is not a positive influence for her. She repeats 
several times throughout the track, “Tell me what’s good for me but I don’t care, ” showing how 
lost one can get in their own world of infatuation. She crafts the metaphor of alcohol addiction early in the piece claiming, “Obviously I’ve got a problem: I like the taste, ” declaiming the toxic 
relationships she has found herself in. The track’s drums are played calmly over a few quiet synths, with a beautiful bass progression softly filling the space. Once again, Walker’s vocal 
performance is impressive, as she continues to maximize her vocal range and reach the falsetto 
notes. Throughout the EP , she sings with a sense of yearning that shines through in this song especially. 
 “CLEAR” quickly comes to its end with the track “Settling,” yet another one-worded 
title that matches the brevity of the EP . This track is bass-centric, following a smooth progression and soft drums with a keyboard scattered throughout. The simplicity allows the listener to once again settle into the content of the lyrics and Walker’s vocals. “Settling” best summarizes the internal conflict Walker seems to face throughout the EP , unapologetically putting her emotions on the line: “I can’t live with you, but I can’t live without you. ” Despite another strong vocal 
performance by Walker, this track is highlighted by the inviting bass throughout, while the jazz 
influences are not hidden in the slightest.
 Throughout the whole project, Walker manages to communicate a variety of emotions 
and allows her audience to see the battles she deals with regarding manipulation, addiction, 
and fulfillment. The EP is what is to be expected from Walker: beautiful R&B with heavy jazz 
influences and strong vocal performances. With these strengths in mind, it leaves the audience wondering what more she can offer. The potential from the project is prominent, as one can see Walker developing into one of the biggest names in R&B in the manner of SZA and H.E.R. However, this project simply leaves the listener contemplating what could be with just a bit more 
length for the EP . The project is powerful, and Walker continues to produce tracks that perfectly 
fit her niche; however, she will inevitably expand her horizons with opportunities that present themselves with the recent success. Only one month into 2019, it is safe to expect much more from the 22-year-old songstress as the year goes on. 
 
—  Matthew Rudas
 Senior Staff Writer
clear  
by  Summer walker
Release Date  January 25, 2019
B
Atlanta native Summer Walker continues to progress as an artist as she displays her most personal emotions through soothing R&B on her 
most recent EP , “CLEAR. ”10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
For as long as I can remember, I’ve been terrible at this game we call intimacy. The best way I 
can explain it is with my very own, world-renowned specialty: a cat-related metaphor. My desire for 
affection will flare up from time to time, but I’ll easily brush off any sort of touch with a fit of hissing 
and batting claws. When it comes down to it, I’m way too fussy about the whole thing. 
My parents aren’t the most lovey-dovey couple out there, so I choose to blame them for setting 
a bad example toward childhood me. Since I rarely saw my mom and dad even kiss, I feel like my 
attitude toward public displays of affection has become something of a strong aversion. I’ll see a friend 
canoodling with her boyfriend and fight a strong urge to launch myself into the oblivion of outer 
space. One time, after I witnessed a couple flirtatiously whispering to one another in Galbraith’s quiet 
study room, my annoyance was so overwhelming that only a Thai tea could calm me down. For me, 
that’s really saying something.
Needless to say, watching others engage in unsolicited public displays of affection has never been 
a favorite pastime of mine. Y et somehow I wound up taking a class where the professor promoted our watching sexually explicit content as homework and proceeded to showcase said videos in a lecture hall full of people. Welcome to the Psychology of Human Sexuality, people.
As I was in need of a psychology elective, I enrolled in this class with the attitude of, “why not?” 
The concept of an upgraded, collegiate version of sex education appealed to me greatly, especially since my curiosity about this class was at an all-time high. What would be covered (in terms of both content and amount of clothing)? How much detail would we go into? Is censorship a potential issue? My distaste for PDA aside, I couldn’t contain this newfound fascination. So, I took the plunge and hit “enroll. ”
I truly felt that taking this type of course could aid in my growth as both a student and a person, 
and I think I’m correct in that assumption, looking back now. Though we’re only about halfway through the quarter, I’ve already learned a wealth of new information. From the pure anatomy of everything down there to the phenomenon of sexting as an expression of adolescent sexuality, we’ve 
hit quite a bit. And the best part? There’s no shortage of class discussion, and nobody shies away from 
the topic at hand.
As much as my friends engage in very overt affection with their partners, very few people I know 
will discuss their sex lives just as openly. The stigma around talking about sex, particularly among women, has made a much more significant impact on my life than I’ve realized. I know most of my 
coupled friends must be sexually active, though they’ve never said a word to me about it. It seems as 
though we’re allowed to show a certain level of intimacy to others, but there exists a line that everyone has made a silent promise not to cross.
Perhaps my own intimacy-related ineptitude has something to do with this line and how my 
expectations differ from those of others. I think we’ve all drawn out boundaries for ourselves, whether we consciously realize we’ve done so or not. Compared to certain friends, I’ll be willing to talk more about the sex-related things I learn in class, while they’ll chip away at my sanity one cutesy gesture at a time. And that, my dudes, is where miscommunication arises.
Y es, I’m not my friends, and they’re not me. I might never be as willing to engage in acts of public 
intimacy as they are, to be honest. But, I think that’s okay. As any cheesy children’s TV show would point out, we’re actually all better for our differences. Though PDA still feels like nails on a chalkboard to me, I think I can learn to move past these negative feelings in time.
Sometimes getting along as a cat in a world of overly affectionate dogs is difficult, but I’m doing 
my best to manage it.I have been on two first dates in my entire life: one that went okay and another that went pretty 
well. So, no, I don’t have a lot of experience on first dates in San Diego, but hear me out; I’ve had my fair share of fun times around this city. If you happen to be going on a first date soon or want to ask 
a cutie out, I hope this article can help you out.
Convoy St.
Convoy has every type of Asian food imaginable. It has boba for a quick drink. I recommend 
Kung Fu Tea, Happy Lemon, and Gong Cha. Y ou can also get ramen, pho, sushi, poke, Korean BBQ, 
and even more. My favorite restaurant on Convoy (at least so far) is Tajima Ramen.
UTC
UTC is perfect for a day or night date. With places like Shake Shack, Din Tai Fung, and Eureka!, 
it offers a variety of restaurants with different price points. Y ou can walk around on a sunny day or when it’s dark and the lights are twinkling.
Liberty Public Market
Liberty Public Market has an insane variety of food places available in one location. Y ou can get 
cannolis or pad thai or clam chowder fries. Y ou could each get different things and share them all!
Ice Cream
Everyone loves ice cream! Or at least, most people do. Hammond’s Gourmet Ice Cream, The 
Baked Bear, and Boba Bar and Desserts are great ice cream/dessert places. A sweet treat with a sweet date, perfect!
Hit the Beach
Going to the beach for a first date may be cliche, but there’s a reason so many people do it: it works! 
W alking along the beach and looking across the ocean and up at the sky is beautiful. It also leaves space for comfortable (or uncomfortable) silence. There’s something about being at the beach that is so reality-altering too. It’s like it takes you to another dimension with new feelings and thoughts. And, if it gets cold, you can hold each other, to keep warm, of course.
Balboa Park
Balboa Park has interesting museums and gorgeous gardens to walk through on a sunny day. It’s 
very touristy, but it’s still fun! Y ou can go to the science museum, art museums, the cactus garden, the rose garden, the lily pond, and much more. W arning: with the many attractions, it may be a bit pricey, 
but if you have the funds, I say go for it!
Gliderport
Y es, this is basic, but it’s also an easily accessible place to meet up with someone close to campus. 
W atching the sunset at Gliderport is so beautiful, and watching it with another person is even better. 
First dates are not easy, but finding a place to eat and somewhere to hang out after makes things 
a lot easier. Not to be corny, but I hope V alentine’s Day brings you all some good experiences and 
memories full of happiness and love. Until next week, lovebirds.Intimacy 101 First Date Ideas
By jade hookham   Lifestyle Staff Writer By Natasha Vandamme   Lifestyle Staff Writer
By rebecca tsang   Lifestyle Staff WriterLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
AS PRESENTS:
AN OVERVIEW OF THE UC BUDGET
FEBRUARY 12 • 5 - 7:30pm • PC East BallroomRepresentatives from UC Office of the President as well as campus CFO Pierre Oillet will present on 
the University of California systemwide budget as well as where money goes on our own campus.
Register at bit.ly/TuitionTalks
For more info, contact asvpexternal@ucsd.eduDinner and dessert
will be providedSome may find Ariana Grande’s hit single “thank u, next” as a nuisance while 
others may find it as a catchy pop song. I vividly remember the first time I heard 
the track; I immediately related to many of its lines. 
Last year, I was writing an article next to my then-boyfriend, Hans 
Westergaard*, asking him for his input on why marriages are unnecessary. As I am coming up with this piece, I am happily living my life without him. Like 
many couples, my ex and I were initially friends, and I did not see him as a 
potential partner. Steadily, we built a bond, and romantic interests eventually sparked. Throughout the duration of the relationship, I fell in love with him as our connection was strong and he was a caring and kind person not only 
toward me, but also to others. Although it was a long distance relationship, I 
did not mind and was willing to travel to Los Angeles to meet him every so often. Everything was alright until Spring Quarter when my health deteriorated horribly. I wanted him to comfort me, but due to his hectic work schedule, he was unavailable when I needed him, leaving him feeling guilty. One day during 
spring break, he decided to end our relationship in one of the worst possible 
ways — via text message. 
Hans left me a total of five incomplete phrases that are forever imprinted 
in me as a break-up message before he proceeded to block my number and 
social media accounts. He permanently damaged me in a way that I have never 
experienced, leaving me feeling confused, betrayed, and scarred. I was obsessed and wanted closure, constantly seeking different ways to reach out to him. Life during the first week of the breakup felt like living in hell. I spent days crying in bed, questioning myself, and hoping that I could sleep for just a little longer 
so I did not consciously have to think about him. I was grieving, and I was 
simultaneously hoping he will apologize and return everything the way it was. Needless to say, my ex has yet to give me my well-deserved personal explanation. 
I originally blamed myself for the downfall of the relationship. I always asked, 
“What did I ever do to him that made me deserve what he has done to me?” For a long period of time, I thought I was being a needy partner for wanting his support when I was sick. I thought I was not worthy enough for him due to our different career trajectories. I thought I was not being as affectionate as he wanted me to be. I do not believe that words can accurately describe the mixed emotions I experienced: emptiness, denial, anger, pain, sadness, loneliness. 
I would have rather felt physical instead of emotional pain; I felt worthless 
knowing that someone whom I loved and trusted could do this to me and had the power to affect me in such a way. 
The road to recovery was timely and difficult; however, I made it out okay. 
One of the most valuable lessons I learned through the breakup is acknowledging my feelings and self-care. I tried holding back my tears on multiple occasions but soon realized that it was doing me more harm than good. Continually sobbing 
for over an hour, I finally broke down when one of my close friends harshly told 
me to face the reality and let go — it was my life’s most dramatic cry that left my eyes swollen for days. I allowed myself to relax by spending more time hanging out with my friends and Netflix. I firmly believe that time will essentially heal a heartache. As the memories with my ex slowly fade, they hold less meaning to 
me. A friend once told me that you can’t let go of someone, but you can move on. 
It was not until half a year later when I finally found myself moving on from him which allowed me to reflect. When I was not the clingy, obsessed ex-girlfriend, I can rationally see from my ex’s perspective. Yes, he valued his career over our 
relationship, but it is understandable considering we were a young couple. Yes, 
he could have chosen a more ethical and gentle way to end the relationship, but I can imagine the emotions he went through the moment he sent me the text. Yes, I have forgiven him because not only do I still believe he is a decent person, but more importantly, I choose to focus on the happy memories we made. 
My story may just be another sad breakup anecdote, nevertheless, I consider 
this breakup as an important life lesson that helped me grow as a person. I do not regret meeting and dating my ex as he has taught me how to love, how to be patient with myself, and how to deal with emotional pain. I am grateful for Hans, 
but it is time to say, “thank u, next. ”
*Name has been changedThank You, Next
By rebecca tsang   Lifestyle Staff Writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduPreface
Valentine’s Day is not always a happy holiday for people and can create a lot of 
negative feelings. If this sounds like you, know that you are not alone and I hope 
this article is helpful in your journey to recovery.
The Breakup
I was in bed dying of period cramps. I had three midterms in the upcoming 
week and was pushing through the physical pain to get my studying done. On 
top of that, I was an emotional wreck. I couldn’t shake the feeling that something 
was horribly wrong. My phone buzzed and I got the dreaded text message: “We need to talk. I’ll be over in 10. ” And there it was: a ten-minute warning for news 
that would be completely unexpected yet not surprising. On my way to his car, I 
was so out of it that I fell down the stairs and landed on my butt, which suddenly made everything 10 times worse. I stepped into his car and when I saw his face 
and refusal to make eye contact, I knew it was over.
The Aftermath
I called 10 people that night, telling the story in different ways and focusing 
on different aspects of the “relationship” that had made me unhappy. I sent him 
a text message that was so long it could have been confused with the script of a major motion picture. I detailed my feelings and the hurt that he had caused 
me. I shouldn’t have done it, but I also don’t regret it. As a writer, writing out my 
feelings really did help me process the breakup. In a way, it forced me to come to terms with the fact that the relationship was really over and that the boy I 
thought was an angel wasn’t an angel after all: He was just another person like 
me with his own feelings and fears.
The Coping
I am forever grateful for my friends in real life and even on social media. 
People I hadn’t talked to since high school were calling me to give amazing breakup advice. My mother dropped everything to drive to San Diego to spend 
a few hours with me and keep me company. Without an amazing support system 
of friends and family, I never would have been able to take the next steps to recovery.
I immediately developed a list I labeled “Post-Breakup Montage Moment” in 
which I created a checklist of the goals I wanted to accomplish. Although there were some trivial points like “sign up for yoga membership” and “actually go to 
yoga, ” the most important one was “see a therapist. ” I knew I had trauma from my past (who doesn’t?), and at some level, I knew that this could have influenced me 
to choose someone who wasn’t right for me. I scheduled an appointment the day 
after my breakup and finally attended my first therapy session. Although I was 
already starting to naturally recuperate on my own, I felt instantly better after our first session. It felt nice to not only get an outsider’s perspective on things but 
also develop tools to look at my own relationship objectively so I could begin my 
own personal healing process. I wanted this to be more than just a breakup; this 
setback was a chance for me to bring self-care to the forefront of my priorities, 
which was something I had never done before.
My tips
Either way you slice it, breakups suck. I can sit here and recommend food 
or drinks from San Diego and types of ice cream you should be eating (which should be a lot) or tell you that it will all be okay and that time heals all, but you 
already know all of this. If you are going through a breakup, in light of Valentine’s 
Day, I strongly recommend attending therapy. Although I am still starting this new mental health journey, I believe it will teach me valuable lessons for future 
relationships and remind me to love myself regardless of whether a boy loves 
me, too.
Reaching out to Counseling and Psychological Services is a great place to 
start! Although I did not reach out to CAPS, they are located on campus which is one of the most convenient locations for UC San Diego students (especially those that live on campus). If you cannot wait for a CAPS appointment, please contact 
the National Suicide Prevention Hotline either through call or online chat. 
This can help if you need to talk to someone instantly or if you are considering suicide, because they will instantly direct you to the resources and help you need. 
If you have health insurance outside of school, consider seeing a therapist in the 
San Diego area. It may be more out of your way than therapy on campus, but mental health should always be a priority.
 And finally, my last “tip” is that unless you are Jim and Pam from The Office, 
try not to date a coworker if you can help it.
 To the ex, if you’re reading this...Thank you for indirectly helping me take the time to better myself. I hope you 
got something out of this, too. Good luck with everything.Thank You, Next
By samirah  martinez  Lifestyle Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
MICHAEL NICOLAS + ALEECK KARISTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 11 - FEB 17
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 • 7pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30pm
BODY COMPOSITION – THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. 
11am
ART AND SOUL – THE ZONE
Enjoy a fun DIY arts and crafts project! Discover 
your creativity and destress! Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
10am
ILEAD WEEK 6 - 1ST LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST/ 1ST LEVEL OF ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER/, 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER
Learn fun and healthy relationship skills and tips 
on how to plan a date night or a trip with your 
partner! Presented by CARE at SARC. Contact: 
kbrecht@ucsd.edu
3pm
ESPRESSO YOUR LOVE - BREWING 
HEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS - MIDDLE 
OF MUIR (M.O.M.)
CARE at SARC is hosting an event on Tuesday, 
February 12th 2019 dedicated to providing a learning space for building healthy relationship 
skills. This is an interactive event and the first 75 
student participants (undergraduate & graduate) 
will receive a complimentary drink of their choice from Middle of Muir (M.O.M), a healthy relationships pencil pouch, and custom buttons made by CARE at SARC Peer Educators. 
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATIONS 
TABLES (LTCS ) – VARIES
Learn or practice a language by conversing with a 
native in a fun and casual setting! Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
LOVE AND RELATIONAL 
COMPATIBILITY – REVELLE FORMAL 
LOUNGE
Falling in love is one of the most powerful of all 
human experiences and choosing a partner is one of the most important decisions you will ever make. Few of us are ever taught the essentials of love and relational compatibility, so it is no wonder so many relationships fail. With the information you learn during these stimulating afternoons, you can beat the odds and avoid becoming a statistic by learning the secrets of relational success that no one else will talk about or teach you. 
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 6- 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
Learn fun and healthy relationship skills and tips 
on how to plan a date night or a trip with your partner! Presented by CARE at SARC. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
5pm
R&R SQUAD – THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!TUE2.12
THU2.14MON2.11
10am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays can be stressful, so start your week on a 
high note with FREE tea and snacks! Come 
destress with University Centers EVERY MONDAY 
this winter quarter! #DestressMonday. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/230521667893
775/?active_tab=about
12pm
COOKBOOKS BY EARLY BLACK 
CALIFORNIANS 1900- 1936 – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
This talk documents culinary practices in early 
patterns of Black migration to Southern 
California. Drawing on the analysis of two 
cookbooks this talk illuminates the forms of 
cooking that were central to early Black migrants 
to Southern California, tracing the culinary 
influences from other regions of the United 
States. An accompanying exhibit will be on 
display in February 2019. Light refreshments will 
be served. Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://libraries.ucsd.edu/blogs/blog/2019bhm/
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based on 
first come, first serve. Questions? Contact the 
zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
COLLEGE BOWL – ALL COLLEGES
COLLEGE BOWL IS HERE! Grab some friends to 
form a team and put your knowledge of just about 
everything to the test. Come represent your 
college and win some cool prizes while you're at 
it. More details in the link below! More info here: 
https://www.facebook.com/UCSDrec/ Contact: 
mchosich@ucsd.edu
10am
LOVE DATA WEEK: SHARING AND 
PUBLISHING YOUR RESEARCH 
DATA – BIOMEDICAL LIBRARY 
BUILDING, CLASSROOM 4
Did you know you can publish your research 
data? Join UCSDs Research Data Curation Program for a seminar about the what, why, where, when, and how of data publishing, including a discussion of what it means to publish your research code along with your data. 
6:30pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATIONS 
TABLES (LTCS ) – VARIES
Learn or practice a language by conversing with 
a native in a fun and casual setting! Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
IMPROVISER’S INITIATIVE 
PRESENTS: WHSS DUO – CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
WHSS DUO is Sara Schoenbeck (Bassoon) and 
Wayne Horvitz (Piano, Electronics). They are dedicating their long-time collaboration to duo spaces of original music and improvisation. A study of the crossroads where texture and extended technique meet with and support the expression of melody and songFRI2.15
12pm
LOVE DATA WEEK: DATA IN 
EVERYDAY LIFE – BIOMEDICAL 
LIBRARY BUILDING, CLASSROOM 4
Your daily routine might be familiar to you, but 
what might we learn if we combine data about the lives of hundreds of other UCSD students and faculty? All week long you can participate in the campus-wide questionnaire, answering questions about your day-to-life, like how much coffee you drink and how long your commute to campus. Join us as we present the results and demonstrate the software platforms used to collect, analyze, and visualize the survey data! Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sharing-and-publishing-your-research-data-tickets-54999986440SAT2.16WED2.13Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
2pm
ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 
INFO SESSION WI'19 – ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP PROGRAM, GEISEL 1ST FLOOR WEST
Interested in finding an internship on campus, in 
the local San Diego area, in Sacramento, or even 
Washington, D.C. - all while earning UCSD 
course credit? Come learn about what Academic Internship Program is and does! Contact: aipinfo@ucsd.edu (858) 534-4355
3:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK – 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
3:30pm
SOFTBALL: UC SAN DIEGO VS. 
AZUSA PACIFIC – DOUBLEHEADER – TRITON SOFTBALL FIELD
As part of a 10-game homestand, the UC San 
Diego softball team hosts Azusa Pacific in a doubleheader set to begin at 3 p.m., Wednesday, 
Feb. 13, from Triton Softball Field. Admission is 
free, but parking permits are required on 
weekdays.
7pm
WEDS@7 MICHAEL NICOLAS AND 
ALECK KARIS - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Program information to be announced. Contact: 
boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
7pm
ASCE CINEMA PRESENTS: A STAR IS 
BORN – PC THEATER
ASCE is hosting a free screening of the critically 
acclaimed movie, A Star is Born! We'll have a cute giveaway item, too; stay tuned for a post on our Facebook event page. About the movie: Seasoned musician Jackson Maine discovers -- and falls in love with -- struggling artist Ally. She has just about given up on her dream to make it big as a singer until Jackson coaxes her into the spotlight. But even as Ally's career takes off, the personal side of their relationship is breaking down, as Jackson fights an ongoing battle with his own internal demons. 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
V ALENTINE’S DA Y
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. ‘’___ the grass in the fields ... ’’ 
(Whitman)
5. Foot-shaped form
9. Pound prospect
14. Author Morrison
15. Realm16. Cast mightily17. Quit working
19. Generous donation
20. Some legal actions
21. Elbow counterpart23. Not just any24. Subsurface hazard
26. Come to the rescue
30. Cola mixers
32. Life-changing declaration34. Green Gables girl35. Fly in the ointment
37. Of superior grade
39. Mommy deer?
40. Not available for use43. Canton in Switzerland44. Trumped-up45. They’ll question you46. Invite letters48. Grippe49. Take wing50. Do a slow burn52. Endorphins producer54. Greek letter57. Woofer output59. Refrigerator drawer61. Argo pilot64. Fell to pieces66. Tale of the Trojan War67. City in Yemen68. The vain put them on69. Well-bred Londoners70. Velvety growth71. Lazy Susan, e.g.DOWN
 1. Casey was here2. Change shape, in sci-fi3. Not running
4. Place for a finger?
5. Soup dippers
6. Stood up7. Follow a pattern?8. Armored division member
9. Loafers, for example
10. Mother of mercy
11. Certain piano piece12. Sinatra’s Gardner13. It’s tender to the Japanese
18. Drum cover?
22. Wynonna’s mom
25. Braces27. Needing parts28. Condescending type
29. Cold forecast
31. Subject of many a grainy picture
33. Phone call cost, in Bogart films35. Worsens, as relations36. Nightingale or Barton, e.g.37. Survey38. Baltic republic41. Coffeehouses42. One of the seven47. Kennedy’s was 10949. Warning devices51. Clock parts53. Highest points55. ___ firma56. ___-craftsy58. Hoodwink60. Minor quarrel61. Rustic dance62. Hearty pub order63. Steal or lie, e.g.65. FussHOUSING
4134 Udall in San Diego, CA, $2995. 
Beautiful Point Loma Condo with 2 Car 
Garage Move In Ready! - MOVE IN READY! 
Tour today, move in tomorrow! Spanish 
tile walkway welcomes you home. Come 
enjoy your NEW HOME in Point Loma. This 2 
bedroom, 2 bathroom... ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
3028 Madison Avenue in San Diego, CA, 
$1995. Back bungalow with private fenced front courtyard. PET OK! Walk to North 
Park entertainment, WD onsite - This 
unique REMODELED North Park Triplex has 
a BACKYARD BUNGALOW that is nestled behind its own fenced in front courtyard...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1025 Island Ave #504 - Fahrenheit 504 
in San Diego, CA, $2995. Contemporary 2 Bedroom 2 Bath In The Heart Of East Village - This 2 level, 1060 sq ft. condo fea -
tures a contemporary warehouse feel with exposed concrete ceilings. Living room and master bedroom feature floor to ceiling windows allowing natural light to illumi-nate this beautiful condo…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
MONGOOSE “RAID” FREESTYLE BMX BIKE w/MAGS almost NEW -$200 in San Diego, CA. This is a bike that any BMX RIDER would Enjoy! This Bike is BAD TO THE BONE! it comes equipped with Pro Style Frame, four X TRICK Steel FOOT PEGS, 20” MAGS no more spokes to adjust or tighten, 
Sealed self lubricating bearings, Dual Hand 
Brakes...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Haro 16’’ bmx bike/rebuilt & tuned per -
fect/fits All ages in San Diego, CA. Up for 
sale is an Excellent 16” Haro bmx bicycle that I’ve completely restored, from paint to the wheel axles being re-greased. I search southern California for bmx projects, that I personally enjoy riding and also offer for sale...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Rebuilt Redline 20’’ bmx race & trail bike/
Excellent Condition in San Diego, CA. Up for sale is a great performing BMX Redline Race bike. The bike is ready for the bmx Race track or hitting the trails in the canyon, and street cruising. The entire bike was disassembled, including pedal axles, wheel axles, front end, bottom bracket, etc… This bike rides quite, and is absolutely solid in every detail....ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationPART-TIME JOBS
Summer Camp Counselors & Activity Instructors - Day camps all over California 
are now hiring camp counselors and activ
-
ity instructors for the summer months. 
Camps are seeking positive, nurturing role 
models to be a part of dynamic, motivated 
staff teams. Visit our website to find a camp 
near your summer home! ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Part Time Delivery Driver - Are you an expe -
rienced driver that has driven box trucks, 
and trucks towing 18’ - 24’ trailers. We are looking for a driver like you with a good driving record to drive part time delivering and setting up for a party rental company. Shifts vary in start time and could be driv
-
ing anywhere from locally in San Diego, all the way to Palm Springs, or LA... ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Administrative Assistant - We are seeking an 
Administrative Assistant to join our team! You will perform clerical and administrative functions in order to drive company suc
-
cess. Responsibilities: Answer inbound tele -
phone calls and make outbound customer service calls. Plan and schedule onsite ser
-
vice appointments. Monitor service request through our ticketing system and allocate appropriately...ucsdguardian.org/classi
-
fieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduThe 16th-ranked UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team came up just short in both 
away games this past weekend. With scores 
of 67–62 and 77–75, the Tritons lost to the 
California State Polytechnic University 
Pomona Broncos and the California 
State University San Bernardino Coyotes, 
respectively. As a result, UCSD fell to 17–6 
overall and 12–4 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association placing it in second place 
behind the California State University East 
Bay Pioneers (18–5; 13–4).
As the regular season trickles down to 
the wire, the Tritons matched up against 
the Broncos for the first time this year on 
Thursday, Feb. 7 on the road. Through the first 
10 minutes of the game, the score remained 
close at 23–16 with the Tritons trailing by just 7. However, the Broncos began to pull away 
shortly a fter, increasing their lead to 19 with 
1:02 remaining and securing that lead heading into the locker room at the end of the first half.
The Tritons shot 32 percent (8–25) from 
field goal range compared to the Broncos 56.7 
percent (17–30) a fter the first 20 minutes of 
play. Cal Poly Pomona’s bench contributed 24 
points and 18 points in the paint contributing to the huge lead early on. 
Junior forward Scott Everman nailed 4 
big shots from beyond the 3-point arc in the 
first half. Aside from his 12 points, Everman 
collected 3 assists and 2 rebounds in his 32 minutes of play.
The blue and gold came out of the half 
playing well. Senior guard Christian Bayne dropped a 3-pointer to bring the lead within 
striking distance. However, the Broncos went 
up by 22 points a fter just four minutes in the 
second half. Led by redshirt freshman guard Tyrell Roberts and redshirt junior center Chris 
Hansen, the Tritons answered back and cut the 
score to 3 at the 7:13 marker thanks to a 27–4 
run, a di fficult feat to accomplish on the road.
Hansen tallied 7 points within the time 
span of the comeback as Roberts recorded 9. 
Hansen concluded the game with 13 points 
and snagged 9 rebounds, 8 on the defensive 
end, as well as 2 assists and 2 blocks. Roberts 
finished with a team-high of 14 points, in 
addition to 3 assists and 7 rebounds.
Both Bayne and sophomore guard Gabe 
Hadley scored 8 apiece while Bayne facilitated 
3 assists and Hadley just 2.
A late come-from-behind surge of e ffort 
would not be enough to seal the victory 
though. An improved 56.7 percent (17–30) 
from the field, 66.7 percent (6–9) from 3-point 
range and a 100 percent (6–6) from the line brought the Tritons within inches of pulling 
but a tough road win, but the Bronco defense 
held its own and secured the win.
After a tough de ficit just two days before, 
the Tritons were hungry for a win as they headed into their matchup against the Coyotes 
on Saturday, Feb. 9. Hansen started the game 
off right, capitalizing on 3 free throws in a 
row after being fouled from outside the arc. 
Although, in heartbreaking fashion, UCSD fell 
once again as the game came down to the last 
couple seconds.
The Tritons were in control for much of the 
game until the second half — a back and forth performance as the teams traded 12 point leads with each other. With four seconds to go and the score tied at 75, a final Coyotes layup 
would determine the unfortunate outcome.
Bayne finished with a game-high 29 points, 
shooting 8–17 from the field and 5–10 in 
3-pointers, as well as a perfect 8–8 in free throws. On top of his scoring, Bayne had 2 
assists and 2 rebounds to add to his stellar 
night. Everman tallied 13 points and snatched 
3 rebounds while Hansen totaled 16 points 
and 13 rebounds for his ninth double-double 
this year.
After a promising 39–30 lead in the first 
half for UCSD, San Bernardino State outscored the Tritons 47–36 in the second half. A poor 
shooting performance from the Tritons 
(30.8 percent) in relation to the Coyotes 54.8 
percent and a 25–42 rebound disadvantage would make sense of the troubling defeat.
The game accounted for a regular season 
split for the series a fter the Tritons beat the 
Coyotes back in November. UCSD will look to bounce back next week at home as they host 
California State University Dominguez Hills 
and California State University Los Angeles, 
the latter being a team that beat the Tritons 
early on in the season. The games are set for 
Thursday, Feb. 14 and Saturday, Feb. 16 with 
tipoff scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in their very 
own RIMAC Arena.
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
Traveling Tritons Lose a Tough Two on the Road
Men’s Basketball falls out of first place after late-game losses. 
BY Madeline Lewis
Senior Staff WriterSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERICK TUSKANThe UC San Diego men’s 
volleyball team took on the UC 
Irvine Anteaters at home for their 
Big West season opener, ultimately losing the match 3–1. This was a 
tough matchup for the Tritons. Before the game, UCI was the clear favorite: the third-ranked Anteaters 
came into Friday’s game with an 
11–2 overall record and a five-game 
win streak. 
In what has become somewhat 
routine for the Tritons at RIMAC Arena, the home team took the first 
set against the favored UCI, 25–23. Though the Anteaters were able to 
climb to an early lead, the Tritons 
contested every point and fought 
to retake the lead. The set had 8 ties 
and 3 lead changes. Despite UCSD’s promising start 
to the match, the Tritons dropped 
the next three sets to lose the match. 
After the initial set, the Anteaters 
were able to regain their footing, 
beating the Tritons 25–19, 25–18, 
and 25–21 over the next three sets, respectively. UCI handled UCSD in 
commanding fashion, not allowing 
the Tritons to take a single lead after the first set. With this game in 
the books, UCI advances to 12–2 overall; UCSD falls to 5–7 record.
Coming o ff two wins against 
Concordia University Irvine and UC Santa Cruz last week, UCSD came back down to earth against the 
NCAA powerhouse. UCI showed 
themselves to be the superior team. UCSD committed 24 errors 
compared to UCI’s 4. In last week’s 
game against CUI, the Tritons were able to limit their errors and emerge out of a close game with a win. Points from kills were about even between 
the teams as UCI finished with 56 
and UCSD with 54. UCSD’s errors 
helped UCI along to their 12th win 
and highlighted the stark di fference 
in ability between these two teams. 
Next week, the Tritons face o ff 
with the Anteaters again on Feb. 
14, but this time the game will be at 
Irvine. The Valentine’s Day matchup 
will be another challenge for the 
Tritons. UCI is undefeated at home, 
now on a seven-game win streak and 
of course, took down UCSD in their most recent matchup. If the Tritons 
could manage to pull o ff a win, it will 
be a true upset. The game will start 
at 7 p.m. at the Bren Events Center. SPORTSvs Concordia (Oregon)
vs Azusa Pacificat UC Irvinevs Cal State Dominguez Hillsvs Cal State Dominguez HillsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Softball
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball2PM3PM7PM
5:30PM7:30PM2/112/132/142/142/14
CONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
The 20–0 Tritons continued their 
dominant campaign on Saturday, Feb. 9 
and Thursday, Feb. 7, taking down both 
the visiting California State University, San Bernardino Coyotes and the California State 
Polytechnic University Pomona Broncos at 
RIMAC Arena. 
In the Saturday matchup, UC San 
Diego beat San Bernardino State 71–49, 
overcoming a slightly underwhelming shooting performance, as only three Tritons 
finished in double-digits. Junior forward 
Mikayla Williams and Junior guard Sydney Sharp led the team in scoring with 19 and 18 
points, respectively, to go along with a pair 
of steals each. 
UCSD wasted no time in this one, going up 
20–9 at the end of the first quarter and never 
looking back from there. A fter overcoming a 
10-second lead, the Coyotes held at 7–6 until a Williams layup brought the Tritons back 
on top. Despite being outscored 20–16 in the 
third quarter, the Tritons le ft the home crowd 
with no doubt about who was the better team at the end of the game. 
The Thursday win over the Broncos 
looked a lot more like a 2019 UCSD 
performance, with five Tritons scoring in 
double-digits in this one. The team knocked 
down plenty of threes in the big win, hitting on 15 of 28 attempts, while Cal Poly Pomona 
lagged behind with just 5 3-pointers made in 
the game on 19 attempts. Sharp led UCSD 
on offense, with plenty of support from the 
other starters. Sharp dropped 26 points, followed closely by junior forwards Haleigh 
Hatfield and Williams, who scored 18 and 17 
points, respectively. 
The win was not just impressive for the final score, but also in terms of the opponent. 
The Broncos came into the game with just 
one loss in California Collegiate Athletic Association play so far this season and an 
18–2 overall record, making them the Triton’s 
closest CCAA competitor. But if comparisons 
between the two existed heading into the 
matchup, they were dispelled early on. 
The Tritons led the Broncos by 9 at the 
end of the first quarter, up 22–13, but the 
game did not become yet another UCSD blowout until the second quarter. The Tritons 
put up a whopping 31 points in the second, 
giving the second-ranked home team a 
commanding 53–31 lead. Despite the two 
teams seemingly trading blows during this 
quarter, Cal Poly Pomona had a hard time 
putting runs together, and trading baskets 
with a team as proli fic from deep as UCSD is 
a recipe for disaster. 
While the Tritons had no real problems 
in the blowout, the team did miss some free 
throws, going just 8–15 (53.3 percent) from 
the charity stripe, compared to the Broncos 
who went 13–18 (72.2 percent). While this 
didn’t matter in the matchup, UCSD will 
need to hit a higher percentage of their free 
throws once they start facing some sti ffer 
competition in the playo ffs. 
The team will remain at home next 
week, taking on California State University, 
Dominguez Hills on Thursday, Feb. 14 at 
5:30 p.m. at RIMAC Arena. If the Tritons can finish out the rest of their CCAA schedule 
as strongly as they have dealt with the 
opposition thus far this season, the team 
will secure a first place CCAA finish for the 
fourth straight season. BY jack dorfman
sPorts Editor
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
Men’s Volleyball Downed by 
Third-Ranked UC Irvine
Tritons take first set, but they can’t overcome Anteater’s attack. 
BY Wesley Xiao
Staff Writer
Wesley Xiao  Wex057@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON  ATHLETICSWomen’s Basketball Remains Firmly 
in First in CCAA with Pair of Wins
Second-ranked Tritons brush off two tough opponents at home. SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  16
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON  ATHLETICS