Workers went on strike throughout 
the day on every UC campus against university administrators in protest 
of job outsourcing to third-party companies and inadequate salaries. The strike, which occurred on March 20 and was organized by the University Professional and Technical Employees and 
Communications Workers for America, was 
intended to get the UC system back to the bargaining table to assess their issues and work on a solution. 
This strike marks the most recent development 
in a long history of grievances that unions have had 
against the UC system. The American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees 3299 had demonstrations in May and October to carry similar demands for wage increases and an end to 
subcontracting; thus, AFSCME 3299 protested with 
UPTE-CWA to show their solidarity. 
“What we’re asking is for [the UC system] to 
come back to the bargaining table so that we stop outsourcing and all the University of California 
jobs stay with Californians, ” Business Technology 
Support Analyst bargainer for UPTE-CWA David Carlos said to the UCSD Guardian. “We’re asking for at least a living wage because there are people out 
here not able to live in the community they serve, 
and we don’t think that’s right. ” 
The first prerogative of the strike is to call 
upon UC administrators to end the use of contract workers, who do not have benefits and long-term 
guarantees for work and are therefore cheaper hires. 
UPTE has been trying unsuccessfully to negotiate with UC’s bargaining team for some resolution on the matter, because, according to Carlos, hiring 
many contract workers consequently threatens the 
job security of career workers. 
“We have raised this issue with each UC for 
the longest period of time and they’re not doing anything about it, ” Executive Board Member of AFSCME 3299 Ruth Zolayvar said. “ All of this goes down to outsourcing our jobs. If they keep 
outsourcing our jobs and training new people, what 
quality of care do we give to our patients? What quality of service worker care can we give to our students?”
Because the continuation of outsourcing via 
contract workers, which Zolayvar argues leads to a degradation of care for patients and students alike,  union leaders from both UPTE and AFSCME want to go back to bargain with UC administrators. 
The second goal of UPTE is to discuss guaranteed 
pay raises for professional and technical employees, as Carlos contends that the increasing cost of living in San Diego adversely affects UC workers who do 
not earn enough money to live in the area. To afford 
to live in San Diego County, the Economic Policy Institute projects that a family with two adults and two children needs to earn an average of slightly above $97,000. 
“ At each bargaining session, we brought 
proposals. The university has not moved over a couple of years on their position. For us, that’s bad faith bargaining, ” Carlos said. “We still want 
a contract. They’re going to impose upon us their 
last best final offer which is nowhere near what we need in order for us to survive here in San Diego or California. ” 
During the last round of negotiations in February, 
the UC bargaining team offered three-percent pay-increases twice this year and a continued three-percent raise annually for each following year until 2023. They also proposed a one-time payment of 
$1,250 for eligible employees, additional health 
benefits, and new retirement plans for incoming employees. 
As per the UPTE’s priorities list in their bargaining 
The increasing attention directed 
at the study of the human microbiome is proving a widely responsive 
landscape to new discoveries in 
cognitive science. Scientists at UC San Diego’s Center for Microbiome Innovation are pioneering research 
indicating positive connections 
between gut health, mental capacity, and overall well-being. The Lancet medical journal recently released 
an article reinforcing this idea, 
arguing that society needs to reduce consumption of unhealthy foods such as red meats and refined sugars by at least 50 percent if we are to 
garner substantial benefits to global 
health and ensure environmental sustainability. At UCSD, Housing Dining Hospitality spoke with 
the UCSD Guardian on working 
towards promoting a greater variety of nutritional options to campus-goers, and further the “Great Food 
Transformation. ” 
New studies are beginning to 
show that the human microbiome, 
or the billions of bacteria, fungi, and microorganisms present in our 
bodies, could influence the brain 
and behavior. 
Dr. Sandrine Miller-Montgomery, 
executive director of the Center for 
Microbiome Innovation at UCSD VOLUME 52, ISSUE 21  MONDA Y , APRIL 1, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Housing Committee 
Recommends Rent Freeze to HDH
ARCHAC, who represents 
graduate students, cited a lack of transparency and unaffordable rates as reason for the recommendation.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
UCSD Research Links Digestive Bacteria to Mental Well Being
Students Relax During a De-Stress Event In Front of Main Gym // Photo by Francesca HummlerThe Associated Residential 
Community Housing Advisory 
Committee, which is primarily 
made up of graduate students and 
administrators from Housing Dining Hospitality, advised HDH to freeze rental rates for the upcoming year 
during a meeting over Spring Break 
on March 28. 
Over the last few months, HDH 
officials presented the committee with a number of proposals that would 
increase the cost of graduate housing 
over a four-year period for their input. Some of the proposals presented to the committee increased rent in new 
housing as much as 6 percent.
Student members argued at the 
meeting that HDH’s proposals had 
notable discrepancies, some upwards of $40 million and that HDH had 
not been transparent enough with 
their data for the committee to decide on any of them. In response, the committee voted to recommend 
freezing rental rates for the upcoming 
fiscal year
“We don’t have sufficient data 
to motivate support for any rate 
increase, ” ARCHAC member Petia 
Y anchulova Merica-Jones said. “The best thing we can do with this is to offer to not go anywhere. ”
In response to the initial proposals 
from HDH, the UCSD Student Workers Union circulated a petition in favor of a rent-freeze. ARCHAC 
members at the meeting cited nearly 
500 signatures as a motivating factor for a rent-freeze, as well as hundreds of emails from concerned students. 
HDH administrators argued that 
if a rent-freeze went into place, deficit spending would need to be increased in future budgets to offset costs. 
“We need to get out of the 
paradigm where student rent pays for background debt, ” graduate student Anindita Battacharya said.
Towards the end of the March 
28 meeting, the voting members 
supported the rent-freeze and largely 
rejected the five proposals offered by HDH. The committee additionally took a vote from members of the public who attended the meeting, who 
also voted overwhelmingly in support 
of a rent-freeze and against HDH’s proposals.
One of the points the committee 
members cited for rejecting some of the proposals was that the rent increases would exceed the raises that graduate student workers are expecting in the coming months. 
“Housing costs [in these proposals] 
would increase four times faster than graduate student salaries, ” ARCHAC member Yanchulova Merica-Jones 
told the UCSD Guardian.
Postdoctoral scholar and former By Andrew  HA  Staff writerUC SYSTEM
Patient Care and Hospital Workers Strike Against UC Labor PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
UCSD’s resident fashion 
magazine o ffered two 
juxtaposing issues in their 
latest launch party. Join 
us for an interview with 
their editor-in-chief. 
GREEN  FOR  WHOM?
ON-CAMPUS  CRYINGEquality  in  activism
Our  top  loca tionsFeatures,  Page   6
Lifestyle ,   Page 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Mental health is 
a complex and 
involved issue, and 
our solution should be 
just as complex and 
involved, and we must 
start now.”MONDAY
 H 74 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 58
TUESDAY
H 66 L 59
THURSDAY
H 64 L 58
FUN ELECTIVES...............4
GREEN FLIP FLOPS.........7
DIANA...............................9
MARCH EVENTS.............11
GOODBYE SIXTH...........15HOUSING
John Doe
PAGE 4Housing, Dining and Hospitality says they are ready to accomodate students with more variety in nutrition.
BY  REBECCA CAMACHO
SENIOR STAFF writerBY  Tyler Faurot
News Editor TEN YEARS OF
FASHION QUARTERLY
A&E, page 8-9
See MICROBIOME,  page 3 See COMMITTEE,  page 2
See PROTEST,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
MORE FRESHMAN By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
We love Lauren and her art skills.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 voting committee member Sophie 
Hirakis reminded the committee of the indirect effects of charging 
students rental rates that surpass their 
incomes. 
“Students can’t pay more than they 
are paid, so unless you want them 
to take out loans for eating, there is 
no way for these rates to be tractable for people living on poverty wages, ” Hirakis said. “I’ d like to remind everyone [here] that students aren’t 
just paying for themselves, but for 
their families, their children, their spouses, their dogs. ” 
Aleena Arakaki, vice chair of the 
GSA Diversity Advisory Council added to this saying, “We’re poor. We’re having to take out loans for the rates as they are already. ”
According to Ferrer, it would 
be better to postpone making the decision on housing rates until the 2019-2020 academic year.
“Next year we’ll have more time 
to work on budgets together and find something, ” Ferrer said at the meeting.Representatives of HDH informed 
the Guardian that they are taking the committee’s input into consideration, 
but will not have a decision until 
sometime during Week 1 of Spring Quarter.
Better Buzz to Open in La Jolla
A new Better Buzz Coffee 
Roasters location will open in 
downtown La Jolla along Prospect Street in early June of this year, as was announced on March 21. 
The new location is a part of the 
company’s plan to expand along the coast.
As reported by the San Diego 
Eater magazine, the new location in La Jolla will feature a wrap-around patio and offer full menu service. As the soon-to-be tenth location of Better Buzz in the greater San Diego 
area, the Prospect Street location 
will surpass the drive through on Garnet as the nearest location to UC San Diego’s campus.
“Better Buzz is super great...and 
I’m stoked that they’re coming, but I feel like they forsake functionality for ‘trendy-ness, ’” says Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Lily 
Venturino. “They don’t even have 
outlets in [the Pacific Beach and Hillcrest locations], so it’s not really somewhere you can go to study. It’s just an influencer hangout spot and it kinda blows. ”
TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.org TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.orgTYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.org
NEWS BRIEFSHDH Will Not Decide on a Budget Proposal Until Sometime in Week One of  Spring Quarter
▶ COMMITTEE , from page 1
Upcoming Campus Protests
Later this month, a number 
of actions will be taking place at UC San Diego. AFSCME 3299, the largest labor union in the UC system, will return for another 
strike on April 10. In addition to 
their ongoing opposition to UC working conditions and labor practices, the union will march this time in response to the filing of an Unfair Labor Practice charge against the University of California. The charge was filed following the solidarity strike on March 20, after 
UC police threatened strikers with 
citations for peaceful behavior that had previously gone uncited.
A recent union newsletter 
argues that the UC system carried out “unlawful interference, which includes conduct ranging from workplace retaliation and threats of police citation to effectively 
condoning the violent physical 
assault of striking workers on the picket line. ”  
The April 10 movement will be 
AFSCME’s fourth strike within a year.
Another protest coming to 
campus is the student-organized “San Diego Climate Strike, ” slated for Earth Day, Monday April 22. The protest, planned to be held at the Silent Tree in front of Geisel 
Library, is intended to build 
support for political and societal action in response to alarming new conclusions by climate scientists.
Giovanni Tamacas, the head 
organizer of the event, told the Guardian that the “aim is to create a ‘rainbow coalition’ of unions, activist and student groups, and 
workers. This event is not about 
any one person or group, it’s about science. ”
Expected speakers for the 
event include Karl Aldinger, a Co-Director for the San Diego Sunrise movement. 
HAVE  A 
FANTASTIC 
SPRING 
QUARTER!
-The 
Guardiandescribes the human microbiome 
as often primarily assimilated to gut bacteria located in the gross 
intestinal tract, while before mainly 
regarded to assist in digestion and strengthening our immune systems. This further establishes connections 
related to mental health such as the 
identification of genomes related 
to Alzheimer’s disease, depression, 
anxiety or autism.   
In an interview, the executive 
director, who also serves as 
a professor of practice in the 
department of bioengineering, 
explained the vast nature of the relation between the human genome and our own bacterial composition. 
“The best part is knowing that 
only 1 percent of our genome is truly human, ” Dr. Montgomery told the Guardian. “... the other 99 percent being microbial and largely 
ignored until recently means the door to discovery is wide open … ”
More recent findings in the study 
of human microbiome are geared towards observing the connections 
between the role of nutrients taken in when we eat and how this engages our G.I. tract to affect the rest of our 
bodies. 
“What we have clearly seen 
in the past two years is a new 
understanding that microbiome 
and food go hand in hand, ” Dr. Montgomery said. 
Earlier this year, in an article 
composed of more than 30 experts titled “Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT–Lancet Commission on healthy diets from sustainable food 
systems, ” The Lancet found that, 
“Unhealthy diets pose a greater risk to morbidity and mortality than does unsafe sex, alcohol, drug, and tobacco use combined. ”
The research paper calls for at least a 50-percent reduction in global consumption of unhealthy foods, with primary culprits being 
red meats and refined sugars, 
alongside a 100-percent shift towards more plant-based diets — with an emphasis on locally sourced 
produce.
“Diets inextricably link 
human health and environmental 
sustainability, ” the article argues.  
Estimating to avert about 10.8 
to 11.6 million deaths per year with 
the dietary implementation, the 
journal defends the pivot towards 
sustainable food systems as intrinsic to human preservation and in alignment with UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Paris 
Agreement, coining this as “The Great Food Transformation. ”
As part of a combined global 
effort, the responsibility of pursuing 
healthier alternatives for supporting physical and mental well-being 
while forwarding the cause for environmental conservation is 
equally the role of consumers as 
it is of food vendors. HDH, which oversees eleven dining locations, six markets and two food trucks 
at UCSD, recognizes such a social 
responsibility. 
“It is a priority for HDH to source 
food locally, ” Dave DeCaro, director 
of marketing and communications reported to the Guardian. “The food service industry is facing an exciting 
opportunity to not just change, but 
revolutionize. ” 
Some of the ways they are doing 
so include participation in the Farm 
to Institution Center, upholding 
dining and purchasing guidelines that provide a framework to their menu planning and development, and also in partnership with 
Menus of Change to reflect their commitment towards sustainable 
practices. 
“We are proud to be a part of 
a university that is pioneering the way for the future of our planet, ” DeCaro said. 
From saving the environment 
for future generations to fighting 
mental illnesses like Alzheimer’s or 
Parkinson’s disease, the potential 
repercussions of scientific studies 
like the research obtained in the field of the human microbiome alongside enhanced social engagement can go 
on to have profound impacts on 
the way society regards food as a primary resource.     
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
voting isover easy!
crackin ’  lets get’
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for AS Election 2019 informationupdate, the union is asking for 
an end to job subcontracting, 5.5 percent raises per year for workers, 
freezing healthcare premiums and 
co-pay costs, protection of current pensions, increases for under-market titles, and limits on parking 
cost increases. 
“UPTE and AFSCME’s rallying 
cry is ‘fairness, ’ and yet they want 
raises that are nearly twice or triple that of other UC employees, ” UCOP 
Media Relations Claire Doan said 
via email to the UCSD Guardian. “They claim they’re losing jobs and getting displaced, yet for the 
past five years, they’ve enjoyed substantial growth in membership 
and earnings. Agreeing to UPTE and AFSCME’s unreasonable demands 
would cost UC additional hundreds 
of millions of dollars over the life of the contracts and be unfair to other UC employees. ”
As reported by the California 
State Auditor, UCOP has undisclosed restricted and discretionary reserves that are upwards of $175 million as of the 2015-2016 fiscal year. The 
auditor could neither designate 
how these funds were used in UC initiatives, their costs, nor how they continue to benefit the university. 
The lack of disclosure, cites Carlos, begs the question of why UCOP 
is unable to allocate some of that money towards pay raises.  
“The UC [system] has had a 
history of giving five-figure bonuses to high level and highly paid executives, but they claim that 
they cannot give front line workers 
enough money to cover the cost of living, ” Carlos said. “Ultimately, California is one of the costliest states to live in and what we are 
asking is to be able to live in the 
communities we serve. ”
UPTE’s hope for the large public 
protests, beyond demanding labor 
reforms, is for advocacy. UPTE wants to raise awareness for their 
cause and appeal to the student population for greater support from 
the UCSD community. As such, 
organizations like United Students on Sweatshops have shown their approval of the union’s cause. 
“The school relies on student 
tuition and whatever money that we are contributing to the school, ” USAS member Nayeli Hernandez said. “It’s easier for the school to contract 
other workers to replace those 
striking and not face consequences than to have to go through a wall of student support for these workers. 
We’re hoping that UPTE is one step closer to having their demands met. 
It’s a long process, but with student solidarity and AFSCME’s support 
today, hopefully, we at least brought 
more attention to the injustices that these workers face on campus. ”
With the growing awareness 
of the negotiations by the student population and persistent and large strikes, UPTE will look to UCOP to hold future bargaining sessions to stop job outsourcing and to provide 
living wages.
Rebecca Camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.edu
Andrew Ha  ah1a@ucsd.eduResearches Claim That Digestive Microbiomes Have a Connection to Alzheimer’s and Other Significant Mental Disorders
UPTE Hopes The Protests Will Help Grow Student Awareness and Empathy for the University Workers’ Grievances▶ MICROBIOME , from page 1
▶ PROTEST , from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
Computer science is notorious on campus for many reasons: the endless memes 
on Reddit and Facebook torrenting Gary Gillespie, the distinctive scent of 
the revered “basement” of the CS building or the constant complaining over 
extensive programming assignments that mark the degree’s lower division courses. However, there is one aspect of the program that usually goes unnoticed: the mental 
health of respective students.
The major is one of the most popular on campus, with nearly 1,900 enrolled students, 
and for a good reason; the field is known to host the most recession-proof professions 
in today’s economy. Skills developed in the program can be applied to dozens of other 
industries and can be used to solve issues in the environment, medicine, robotics, and 
social services. These applications can be found even here on campus, while our computer 
science faculty makes advances in many research topics including artificial intelligence, 
cryptography and bioinformatics. However, the rapid development of department comes 
with a hefty price.
With the disproportionate hike in undergraduate enrollment and high demand for the 
major, the administration has decided to “cap” 
the major to limit the influx of students. Per bi-
yearly lottery cycle, a measly 75 students, less than 
thirty percent of applicants, are accepted into the 
program. To even be eligible, students need to have 
completed at least four lower-division courses over 
the course of three or four quarters. In other words, 
the process is not short. Prospective applicants are 
then evaluated based on your GPA in these courses 
with a 3.3 cutoff, and with an average above 3.7, the chances of being accepted are slim.
The competition for placement in the major 
is fierce, and the computer science department states that their mission is to make the 
program accessible to as many people as possible. However, there is a general consensus 
among the student body that the lower division courses of the curriculum are weeder 
classes, or courses with intense rigor to discourage students without the skills to continue. 
This is evident across the dreaded programming assignments, lab culture, and major 
administration.
This cutthroat atmosphere and cyclic procedure of churning out code, debugging, 
turning it in and getting a jump on next week’s assignment for ten weeks with no break is 
bound to cause some students to look for help. One of the only places to go for assistance 
without worrying about committing an academic integrity violation is the open lab hours, 
where tutors are available to assist students in debugging their code. However, due to 
the mass of students enrolled in these lower-division courses, submitting a ticket to get 
help can take anywhere from thirty minutes to two hours, depending on the course and 
number of tutors available. This, as well as the cutthroat atmosphere, makes lower-division computer science courses a hub for academic integrity violations, be it sharing 
code on GitHub or even paying an outside source to complete assignments for enrolled 
students. The lack of resources and ability of the department to provide advising and 
assistance to computer science majors given the over-enrollment of undergraduates only 
aggravates this issue and explains why it has the lowest retention rate of any other major.
Many students of the study recognize the pitfalls of their program and have tried to 
bring attention to the administration, but to no avail. One recent attempt sticks out more than others, and that is the statement project “kms.” by an anonymous third-year Math-
CS major. John, his pseudonym, created the application as a protest software that aims 
to bring attention to the troubling state of mental health resources and hiked expectations 
in introductory computer science courses. The actual program allows a user to execute 
commands that can tie loose ends before committing suicide, and was inspired by John’s 
own experience and struggle in finding mental health therapy on campus. 
Through posters and advertising across social media, John says that the response to the 
project was mixed; he received concerns that people may misinterpret the work and believe 
the program is encouraging suicide. However, he has also received a slew of personal messages and 
students reaching out to share their own stories, 
sparking a variety of conversations and dialogue 
on how the administration can change. When asked 
how positive change can be made, John responds, 
“Mental health and suicide prevention are difficult 
topics, but there are ways campus administrators and 
faculty can begin to address mental health access.” 
He brings up the fact that many lower division 
classes in computer science, such as CSE 11, 12 and 30, have actively discouraged collaboration 
under the premise of “preparing students for industry,” when industry careers require collaboration and inclusive thinking. 
He believes that by allowing students to develop connections and teamwork, it also 
creates a social circle and support system when students eventually go through difficult 
periods. John has quickly become an advocate for change, and will continue his work 
throughout the remainder of his undergraduate career. “Mental health is a complex and 
involved issue, and our solution should be just as complex and involved, and we must 
start now.” 
The computer science department at UC San Diego has been highly regarded and 
ranked across the nation, with award-winning faculty and adept researchers making 
groundbreaking advancements in a huge range of topics. However, in order to ensure the 
growth and development of the undergraduate students of the future, the administration 
must put regulations in place regarding appropriate coursework for the quarter system 
and provide adequate resources for students pursuing the degree.Runtime Exception: Why the Computer Science 
Department Needs a Change
By Rajee Ganesan     staff writer
NO FUN ALLOWED: UCSD’s Problem with Non-Academic Electives
U C San Diego is a university world 
renowned for, among other things, 
the wide variety of classes that are 
offered. With over 159 majors and 104 minors across 49 departments and six colleges, 
along with several opportunities to design 
an “individual major,” there certainly is not a 
lack of subject matter. That being said, while 
offering a wide variety of academic courses and a number of freshman seminars, UCSD 
has failed to provide a sufficient number and 
variety of for-fun electives available to all 
students.
Currently, for-fun electives at UCSD 
are few and far between. In a straw poll of 
Guardian readers, only 26.8 percent surveyed 
said that they had ever taken a two-unit pass/no pass elective. Likewise, a quick search 
through the course catalog suggests that 
such electives are offered on a minimal basis 
through the music and theatre and dance 
departments. While these are both interesting 
subject areas, many students have a desire for 
a broader range of subject matter.
However, for-fun electives can take a 
number of forms beyond the performing arts. 
In the same straw poll, students suggested a 
variety of potential for-fun electives, some of which included ceramics, a discussion section on pop culture, culinary arts, physical 
education classes, the history of Disneyland, 
and life skills (aka Adulting 101).
These types of classes, regardless of 
academic rigor, have a lot to offer for both 
the individual student and the university 
at large. While some may argue that for-
fun electives do not offer any substantial academic benefits, research suggests the 
opposite is true. A study from California 
State University, Sacramento found that 
when college students participated in at least 
one of any type of extracurricular activity, 
they had higher retention and graduation 
rates, maintained higher GPAs, and were 
more likely to hold academic good standing. When considering for-fun electives as a more 
rigorous form of extracurricular activity, 
these findings suggest that offering more of 
these types of courses has positive effects on 
students indirectly in the academic realm.
While there are clear benefits to offering 
for-fun electives, a potential argument 
against expanding for-fun electives would be 
that these courses would be an easy way for 
students to boost their GPAs without much 
effort. However, courses like those offered under MUS 95 are only able to be taken on a pass/no pass basis. This has not deterred 
students from taking these courses; at the 
end of Winter Quarter 2019, MUS 95G, 
Gospel Choir, had 441 enrolled students 
across its two sections. When comparing this 
high enrollment number with the number of 
undergraduates enrolled in the three music 
majors, 127 as of Winter Quarter 2019, it is 
clear that courses like MUS 95G are popular 
amongst the general student body rather than just within the music department.Likewise, while students do have the 
option to take any course they like Pass/No Pass, within reason, most courses at UCSD are structured to be worth four units. A unit at UCSD equals one hour of classwork and two hours of outside work. When planning schedules, it can often be difficult for students to manage to fit in an extra four-unit course just for the fun of it, because even if 
they take the class for Pass/No Pass, they 
still are required to put in quite a significant By Jacob sutherland     Senior Staff Writer“This cutthroat atmosphere and cyclic 
procedure of churning out code, debugging, 
turning it in and getting a jump on next 
week’ s assignment for ten weeks with no 
break is bound to cause some students to 
look for help.”
Count of Have you ever taken a 2-unit P/NP elective? 
(Ex: TDMV 138, MUS 95G)
Yes
No26.8%
73.2%
COURTESY OF JACOB SUTHERLAND
See ELECTIVES, page 5
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Sixth College’s 
2019 Event Series“Women in the Arts”
Manuelita Brown serves as the director of UC San 
Diego’s Honor Achievement Works hops and  is an 
active member of UCSD Alumn i’s Black Alumni 
Council and the UCSD Alumn i Board of Directors.
Since 2003, she has chaired the Blac k Alumni 
Scholarship Fund Committee and served as liaison 
between the UC San Diego Foundation , its scholarship 
office and  the San Diego Foundation. A renowned
sculptor, Brow n’s latest work, a br onze statue 
of Sojourner Truth , reco gnizes Truth's deep 
humanity , commitment to educati on and pursuit of 
equal ri ghts.  In 2015, Brow n’s work was recognized 
with a “Villager Award:” an award presented annually 
to persons who have made a difference in the African
American Community by returning their talents  to the 
community. With a  backgr ound i n math and 
psychology and as a local and public artist, UCSD 
alum, and educator , Brown truly exemp lifies 
Sixth’s values: she and her work are innovative, interco nnected , and aware.
In Convers ation with 
FREE & Open to the public
Refreshments Provided 
RSVP & Details Online:
 Wednesday, April 3
Atkinson Hall, UC San Diego
6–8pm Manuelita
Brown
https://womeni nartsse ries.ev entbrite.com
DEBUGGING   By System 32
Jacob Sutherland   jasuther@ucsd.edu▶ ELECTIVES , from page 4
amount of time. Two-unit for-fun electives would offer a better alternative 
for students because they could take courses in subject areas they are 
interested without having to deviate too much time away from more 
important classes.
Another critique that could arise would be that students would take 
these courses as an easy way to get out of doing certain GEs. However, 
of the currently offered two-unit electives under the music and theater and 
dance departments, only two of the colleges, Sixth College and Roger 
Revelle College, allow them to count towards their respective Fine Arts 
requirements, with Revelle being the only college to consider a single 
two-unit course as sufficient for meeting the requirement. The other 
four colleges require that courses taken to fulfill either the Fine Arts or 
Disciplinary Breadth requirements be worth four units. Likewise, if such 
electives were offered, each college would take the time to determine 
whether or not a specific elective would count for a GE requirement, as is 
already the case with any newly introduced course.
The most important thing to address, however, is whether or not students 
would even care. After all, UCSD is an academically rigorous school, with 
the first pass system being an obstacle for many when it comes to selecting 
classes. While certainly not a random sample, the results of the straw poll 
suggest that at least some interest for these types of courses exists: 97.6 
percent surveyed said that they would be interested in taking a two-unit 
pass/no pass for-fun elective if a wider variety were offered. Likewise, 
considering that most major and GE courses are four units and the first 
pass system allows students to enroll in up to 11.5 units during their first 
pass date, signing up for two academic classes (eight units) and one for-
fun elective (two units) would not be a problem.
Clearly, the interest in, benefits of, and logistical feasibility for offering 
for-fun electives justify the implementation of such courses. Even though 
the UCSD administration has taken steps to implement some for-fun 
programs like the proposed crafting lessons in the North Torrey Pines 
Living and Learning Community that will offer lessons in pottery, crafting, 
and knitting, among other things, this will not be available for students 
until construction is complete. For now, at least, students interested 
in expanding their horizons on a strictly for-fun basis can still have the 
option to do so through extracurriculars and rec classes offered through 
RIMAC. For the time being, at least, I for one will just have to sit around 
and wait for the day to come when “LTWR 118A: Elon Musk Fan Fiction 
Workshop” is finally offered.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , ARPIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
“I went to a really progressive all-girls school in LA. That seems like an 
oxymoron, but it was actually a very liberal, cool school that taught feminist 
studies as well. That was kind of my first introduction to these issues. ”
Since these early beginnings, Christina Roh has wholly immersed herself in 
activism. 
In her day-to-day life, Roh wears many hats. She is an intern at the Women’s 
Center, an all-campus resource that places the experiences of diverse women at 
its core, and the director of Civil and Human Rights at the Student Sustainability 
Collective, an Associated Students-funded, student-run collective that heads projects 
related to eco-friendliness. The position centers around bringing an intersectional 
approach to sustainability — a role that seems like it was perfectly created for the 4th 
year Environmental Systems student activist.
The concept of “eco-friendly” is never framed in the context of race, gender, and 
class, Roh tells me. Roh explains the problem of environmental racism, a type of 
racism that occurs via environmental policy and decisions, and why the sustainability 
movement can sometimes be unfair to certain marginalized groups.
This would culminate in her proudest achievement at UC San Diego to date: a 
panel exploring the hypocrisy of green energy in America. Roh gushes about mentor 
and role model Leslie Quintanilla, leader of the UCSD Center for Interdisciplinary 
Environmental Justice and professor in the department of ethnic studies, who she 
collaborated with on this panel.
For context, Roh tells me of Central America’s “Holy Trinity:” Bolivia, Argentina, 
and Chile, home to the richest lithium deposits in the world. Lithium is highly 
valuable in the U.S. as the main component of rechargeable batteries — such as the 
ones in Tesla cars. Tesla, whose stated mission is to accelerate the world’s transition 
to sustainable energy, has seen an increase in popularity in recent years as a valid 
alternative to gasoline cars. In response to this demand increase, Tesla has begun 
sourcing lithium from the Holy Trinity, attempting to buy the property rights to 
lithium rich lands from their governments. Colonialist implications aside, this 
poses a considerable environmental problem: the lithium deposits are in lake beds, 
accessible only by evaporating whole lakes.
And the racism problem? Indigenous peoples have lived off the land for 
generations, relying on those lithium-rich lakes for water supply.
The true cost of environmentalism comes out. This debacle illustrates Roh’s 
message perfectly; in Tesla’s journey to transition rich environmentalists to sustainable energy, they have trampled the lives of innocent people. The irony of destroying 
ecosystems in another country in the name of preserving the environment in our 
own is not lost, either. It is classism and racism neatly justified as environmentalism 
for the select few.
“Green for whom? That’s what I always ask,” Roh said. “Yes, it’s green for us, but 
it’s also killing people. ”
A joint SSC and CIEJ event organized by Roh and Quintanilla brought four 
indigenous leaders from Holy Trinity countries, Chile and Argentina specifically, to 
UCSD to speak about their experience with the depletion of their land and resources 
and ways they continue to fight back against corrupt governments who value money 
over the well-being of its people.
“The connection to the environment from 
indigenous people is so different from how we 
perceive it here, ” Roh said. “ A lot of how we 
view sustainability is really not close to being 
as sustainable or as well rounded as indigenous 
practices at all. It was beautiful to hear them talk 
about the stories they had with nature, and all the 
stories they passed down through generations ... I 
was beyond thrilled. There was so much love in the 
air and in the room. ”
The power imbalance in the environmentalist 
movement today is not new and has long standing 
roots.
“I did an event about why the outdoors industry is so white. Like, when did 
becoming interested in the outdoors become such a white thing?” Roh asked.
It’s because environmentalism has an unfortunate history of excluding people 
of color, she explains. This pattern can be traced back to Madison Grant, eminent 
conservationist and close friend of Theodore Roosevelt. Grant was also a supporter 
of eugenics who published “The Passing of the Great Race, ” a manifesto warning 
of the decline of the Nordic race if the gene pool was not properly maintained. 
Roosevelt, who later founded the National Park Service, praised the book.
“Hitler called that book his Bible, ” Roh added helpfully.To these men, the great outdoors was a mark of aristocracy, and its preservation 
crucial to the preservation of the aristocratic race. Even though environmentalism has come a long way since its founding by racist activists, it’s not hard to see the 
outstanding bias.Green for whom?
Roh wants to open up the 
outdoors to such historically excluded groups — beginning 
with her own. The Korean-
American activist is currently 
in contact with Outdoor 
Asian, an organization that 
primarily focuses on getting 
Asian communities more 
involved with the outdoors 
and more involved with the 
environment. Roh hopes to 
start a chapter of Outdoor 
Asian in her hometown 
of Los Angeles, where 
she lives with her mother 
and younger sister. The 
mission of Outdoor Asian 
is particularly relevant to 
Roh, as an Asian-American 
for whom appreciation 
for the outdoors was an 
acquired taste. Roh’s mother 
once scoffed at the idea of 
camping, seeing no intrinsic 
value of paying money to 
sleep on the dirt outside. “I’ve kind of internalized this, and this seems to be a 
common experience among many of my Asian-identifying friends, ” Roh said. 
Nevertheless, Roh does lightheartedly note that there is a significant population 
of Korean grandmas that frequently go hiking together in LA. Roh hopes Outdoor 
Asian will help get more of that going.
Environmentalism has other barriers for entry, and Roh has also been doing 
research specifically on barriers to sustainable menstruation products. One of Roh’s long-term projects is trying to determine how to make sustainable menstruation 
products, such as menstrual cups and fluid-absorbing period underwear, more 
widely adopted and if factors such as price, stigma, or education play a role in their 
accessibility. While she hopes to work with local homeless shelters and organizations 
outside of UCSD to reduce menstrual waste, Roh acknowledges that it is difficult to 
expect people without consistent access to clean water or laundry facilities to switch 
to reusable options.
“This isn’t just an environmental issue, it’s a human rights issue. People don’t 
even have enough tampons or pads … [they should have] literally anything so these 
people can just go on with their lives without getting toxic shock syndrome. ”
In addition to her Civil and Human Rights programming at SSC, Roh also plans 
and leads Gender Buffet at the Women’s Center, 
a weekly informal discussion about social issues. 
This week’s topic was De-Stigmatizing STIs, but 
previous Gender Buffets included a movie and 
craft session for Valentine’s Day, and a panel with 
several black activists at UCSD.
“We usually like to bring in other orgs, give 
them a spotlight, give them a platform, and go 
from there, ” she said.
After all, the crux of intersectionality is 
stepping down and allowing others to speak up, 
and Gender Buffet was where Roh first learned 
about intersectionality; she came to one Week 2 of 
freshman year and has since been hooked.
“I’m not gonna lie, I was ignorant when it came to a lot of issues specifically 
regarding race; I was super into ‘end sexism’ without talking about the racial aspects. When I first started getting interested in racial politics and intersectional feminism, 
it was through the Women’s Center. ”
Roh has stepped into the shoes of those before her. Candidly admitting that she 
has re-shaped her activism over time, she is dedicated to creating a space at the 
Women’s Center where all are welcome as long as they are open to learning and 
occasionally confronting uncomfortable truths.
And that’s just the nature of activism.“It’s kind of disheartening sometimes, I feel like a lot of people often question 
- why does this matter, why do you care so much, why are you trying to make this so political? And I tell them that they have the privilege to experience these things 
without it being political. I mean, do you not care about other people?” 
Green  for  Whom?
Christina Roh talks about environmental racism, intersectionality, and toppling Tesla.
By Cailin  Liu       Staff Writer
“The irony of destroying 
ecosystems in another country 
in the name of preserving the 
environment in our own is not lost, 
either. It is classism and racism 
neatly justified as environmentalism 
for the select few.”
Christina Roh is dedicated to equality in activism.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , ARPIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
At UC San Diego, most students go to the beach to relax with friends. The 
students working in the Mayfield Lab under the department of molecular 
biology, however, are much more interested in the green algae under the 
surface of the ocean. Under molecular geneticist Dr. Stephen Mayfield, students and researchers at UCSD study algae to produce industrial products and solutions to the 
issues of waste accumulation and environmental sustainability. 
UCSD has been a pioneer in the use and development of cleaner energy for 
years, starting the research unit Food and Fuel for the 21st Century. Established in 
2012, Food and Fuel for the 21st Century strives to connect researchers in biology, 
chemistry, engineering, and economics to find solutions for renewable sources of 
food, energy, and products using photosynthetic organisms. As the co-director of 
the Food and Fuel for the 21st Century, Dr. Mayfield has turned to the algae in the 
oceans just off of the California coast as the main focus of his research. 
By studying the molecular genetics and photosynthetic systems of these organisms, 
Dr. Mayfield’s team at the Mayfield Lab has made antibodies from recombinant 
protein expressions and biofuel from the natural oils produced by photosynthetic 
algae.  
In recent years, the team has also worked to find a way to use algae oil to produce 
durable foams that are used in many industrial products. Most of the products that 
we see on the market are made from fossil fuels that add carbon into the environment 
when they’re burned for energy. As part of the 
global strive to lower carbon emissions, researchers 
in the lab worked out the chemistry that would 
make soft foams from the natural oils in the algae. 
This bendable foam became the foundation for the 
soles of the biodegradable flip-flop.
There are 300 million people worldwide who 
cannot afford shoes. For those who can, flip-flops 
are the cheapest shoes around. Every year, 3 billion 
flip flops are made to sustain their high demand 
in the global market. Dr. Mayfield says that flip 
flops are the number-one shoe in India, China, and 
Africa. If the team was going to leave an impact, 
they were going to have to make a global product used by people all around the 
world — the flip-flop. 
Despite their popularity, flip-flops only have a shelf life of two years before 
they start coming apart. They can be taped and mended, but eventually, they are 
thrown out into landfills and waterways. Many flip-flops are made with non-
recyclable plastics that end up staying in the environment for a long time, damaging 
the ecosystem and the plants and animals that live in it. Because of the organic 
components of the biodegradable flip-flops, these shoes could be thrown along with 
your vegetable scraps and banana peels into a compost to be recycled by organisms.
These renewable flip-flops provide a cheap and sustainable solution to plastic pollution. Most products that use clean energy cost significantly more, which makes it hard for people who have lower incomes to afford these products. An important 
factor of these flip-flops is that they are accessible. 
“Renewable flip-flops are easy to manufacture. Someone in India can make this 
shoe in their garage, ” Mayfield said. 
Take 3D-printed shoes for example. The soles of these shoes use a third of the 
material used in regular shoes, saving more than half the carbon that regular shoes 
would require to make. Although these shoes are much more sustainable, they are 
also more expensive.
“It’s the super high-tech solution to our problem. The irony is that we’re using 
more technology to try to use less resources, ” Dr. Mayfield said. 
High-tech solutions can’t be accessed by everyone in the world, but these algae 
shoes require minimal technology, allowing countries all over the world to locally 
produce renewable flip-flops and put them out on the local market. These shoes can’t 
make an impact if they can’t be accessible to those who use them. 
Mayfield says that innovators behind these biodegradable shoes will be the “Elon 
Musk of flip-flops, ” alluding to the pioneering of electrical cars by Tesla. There was a 
time when others doubted that a car could run on electricity alone. Now, car companies 
all around the world are making their own versions of electric cars, accelerating the 
growth of the electric car industry. Mayfield hopes that their sustainable products 
made with algae will make its way into the market, drawing the attention of consumers and producers 
alike. It’s a simple business tactic: if more people 
bought these biodegradable shoes, other shoe 
companies may follow suit because they see that 
this industry is booming. 
“If everybody else copies us, that will be the best 
win, ” Dr. Mayfield said. If renewable flip-flops can 
expand past San Diego to the world market, then 
more people will have access to an environmentally 
friendlier option for footwear. 
One piece of advice that Dr. Mayfield offers 
students is to make thoughtful decisions on our 
consumption as a way to leave a positive impact on the world. 
“If everyone consumed like we do here in the United States, the planet would be 
trashed. We need to make decisions that allow us to consume less, but still be happy. It can be as simple as spending our time and money on things that are rewarding 
but leave a low carbon footprint. Collectively, students can come up with ideas and 
products that are more sustainable than what we have currently. ”
For the innovators researching algae, their products will lead as an example of 
biotechnical possibilities that can change the current environmental situation of our 
planet.
  
Biodegradable  Flip  Flops  
Expected  to  Take  the Market
UC San Diego students are on the forefront of algae biotechnological research.
By Jenny Lee       Contributing Writer
“These renewable flip-flops provide a cheap 
and sustainable solution to plastic pollution. 
Most products that use clean energy cost 
significantly more, which makes it hard for 
people who have lower incomes to afford 
these products. An important factor of these 
flip-flops is that they are accessible. ”
Each year, thousands of flip flops wash up on the East African coast, including Kenyan beaches like the one pictured, posing a risk to plant and animal life.PHOTO COURTESY OF OCEAN SOLEA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
PHOTOS COURTESY OF FASHION QUARTERLY
FAS H I O N QUA RTER Ly LAU N C H PA RTY
Location  The Loft
Concert Date   March 14, 2019
Fashion Quarterly is an ever-evolving fashion-centric 
publication fully managed and operated by UC San 
Diego students. To commemorate the release of 
their two latest issues, the members behind FQ hosted a launch party at The Loft. The event was both polished and 
celebratory, as groups of revelers surged into the dimly lit 
performance lounge and were greeted by the FQ personnel. 
A live DJ set, a plethora of refreshments, and publicly 
available high-contrast disposable cameras that captured 
many of the ongoing activities propelled the celebration.
The night began with a warm welcome from FQ 
magazine members offering goodie bags, filled with treats 
and accessories, to the attendees. The editors, designers, 
and writers of the magazine subsequently took the stage to 
share their visions and commentary on the creative process 
for the two issues. From there, the event transitioned 
into traditional celebration and socialization as the staff 
members exited the stage and began interacting with the 
attendees. The launch party ultimately culminated with a 
raffle for some Fashion Quarterly designed merchandise and copies of the recent publications. Yet, amidst the glitz 
and festivities, the issues themselves remained the focal point of the party, being laid out on a previewing table 
in the center of the room. Partygoers crowded around 
the zines and marveled at their compositions. To say that 
these two works are different from each other would be 
an understatement. Although the two publications were 
released in tandem with one another, a deeper insight 
into the magazines reveals that the design, literature, 
and thematic approach of Issue #15 and Issue #16 cover 
completely antithetical topics of the larger fashion world.
Issue #15 tackles the human aspect of fashion. Rather 
than explicitly exploring aspects of designers or clothes, 
its main feature offers an exploration of the stigma around 
tattoos. The zine brims with vibrant and color-rich shots 
of both UCSD faculty and students displaying their body 
art for the camera. While the clothes supplement the color 
gradient and atmosphere of the image, they merely serve 
to draw attention to the faces and the stories behind them. 
The photos are also accompanied by a myriad of interviews 
and think pieces, all of which provide greater insight into 
the individuals covered within the magazine.
On the contrary, Issue #16 firmly subverts the format and 
content of a conventional fashion magazine. It reverts to the most basic medium of costume, the clothes themselves. The smiling models, brands, and the glamour are all 
replaced with monochromatic close-up shots of just attire. 
While these photos emphasize the interaction of tactility, 
tailoring, and fabric patterns, they also place the garments 
firmly at the center of the magazine’s focus. Moreover, the 
overall design of the magazine seems to be more in line 
with an office catalog than a traditional fashion magazine, 
as articles are either printed on receipts or plastered over 
digitized and pixelated backgrounds.
Fashion Quarterly’s two most recent issues are stellar, 
engaging, and expertly compiled works that explore two 
very polar avenues within the fashion realm. Their launch 
party aptly captured their months of hard work and was 
light, entertaining, and relaxed. Whether it be parties or 
magazines, FQ Magazine manages to create something 
simultaneously professional and exploratively creative.
— Ramona Rosas
Contributing WriterUCSD’s Fashion Quarterly o ffered two juxtaposing issues in their latest launch party.
EARN A MASTER’S IN 
BUSINESS ANALYTICS IN 
10 months.
APPLY BY MAY 1A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Use your phone as your 
mobile ticket to ride. 
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
Moving to my own rhythm.
Student fees provide 
unlimited rides for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.  
Current registration/enrollment 
and valid @ucsd.edu email address 
required to activate account.Your Spring Quarter U-Pass is 
valid through June 30, 2019
Download the 
Compass Cloud App and check for updates.T o celebrate the 10-year anniversary of Fashion Quarterly Magazine, The Guardian sat down with editor-in-chief Zach Roberts to learn about the 
struggles and rewards of running an independent, artistic publication. 
Guardian : Could you introduce yourself and your 
involvement with Fashion Quarterly?
Zach : I’m the current editor-in-chief and also a writer for 
Fashion Quarterly Magazine. I’ve been editor-in-chief since last June, basically when all the old members graduated, and 
currently my responsibilities are managing the magazine, 
making sure all the members are assigned things to do, 
making sure all the events are planned smoothly, and working with the designer, especially to make sure the new 
issue is coming along. And I really wanted to continue to write, so I help the writers with their articles and then I have one article of my own in the new issue. It was 
important to me to keep writing. 
G: How did you learn about Fashion Quarterly, and can you 
describe your involvement with it throughout the years?Z: I first learned about it when I was a freshman here, and 
I had just gotten really interested in fashion in general and art, so I was looking at orgs that would suit those interests. 
I came across Fashion Quarterly but they were at the time 
in the middle of their year-end and they weren’t taking 
applicants, so I applied the next year as a sophomore and I 
got in as a writer. Basically, from sophomore until I was a 
senior I was a writer primarily, so I’ d just write articles, but 
I started to do more and more things. I helped with photo 
shoots, and I helped market things and whatever else they needed, and I just stayed through two years of two different 
teams. And so when it came to this year, I just decided that 
it’ d be cool to run it myself and it’s been really enjoyable. 
I basically found it because I was interested in finding 
somewhere on campus where I could put my passions for 
art and fashion into use. ... It’s been a lot of work but it’s 
been very fruitful, productive, and fulfilling for me. And I 
feel very passionate about making sure it continues because 
it hinges a lot on people graduating and who is staying, and 
with the transition between teams, it’s hard to keep it going 
… It’s hard to do that for a small org that doesn’t get a lot of 
funding, it’s hard to keep the issues coming out year by year.
G: Can you describe the process of creating an issue of FQ? 
Z: On our team, we have various groups of writers, artists, 
and designers, and so usually the process at the beginning 
of each quarter is we all gather and everyone pitches their 
ideas. Lately we haven’t been starting with a particular 
theme, we kind of just see where it goes, more of a collage 
style, and once the artists have their articles locked in, the designer and I will talk about what kind of design approach we’ll go based off the content of the articles, and then we’ll see if there’s any possibilities of collaborations with the 
artists. We actually recently got a website, and I think it’ll 
change things, because with issues there’s usually only one 
or two articles per writer and once they finish it there’s kind 
of a long time between then and when the issue’s finished 
because it takes a while to design, so in the meantime we’re 
going to hopefully have a lot more content be produced online. In terms of funding, we self-fund the printing, so 
basically fundraisers cover as much as we can. We did a Porto’s fundraiser earlier this quarter, we’re actually doing a Costco’s fundraiser this Thursday very last minute, and 
then the rest of it we see what we can gather up. So it’s 
pretty precarious to fund, to make it ourselves, but I think 
it makes it more rewarding in a way.
G: Approximately how many students are involved 
throughout the process? Can you describe the environment of the FQ?
Z: There’s about 15 of us, and we try to have biweekly 
meetings. We usually meet up at Geisel and it’s very casual. Besides that we also try to have team bonding every now 
and then, last weekend we all got pizza and that was fun. 
We try to maintain a very casual and fun thing. We also 
have work days every now and then where we gather for 
three hours on the weekend and just work on the issue. Everyone has things to do, so we just hang out together but 
are productive at the same time. It’s pretty various [in terms 
of members’ majors]: Communications, English, STEM, 
pretty much all across the board. On our website there’s 
our tagline “creating the content that you want to see, ” and 
that basically summarizes it. Creating the content that isn’t 
available at UCSD, but we know we have the potential to 
make it, and there’s interest in this. 
G: FQ is a very visual publication. How do you find the 
models and who edits the photos? Who determines the outfits the models wear? How do students shape the fashion 
element?
Z: Our name is Fashion Quarterly, but in the last year 
and a half we’ve been slightly turning away from fashion and abstracting ourselves to general visual culture, so 
art, photography, and fashion is involved but it’s not the 
main thing. But we do try to incorporate fashion still, 
we’re always looking for new photographers or models 
to collaborate with, and just always interested in gauging interest by going to various events on campus or looking on Instagram. Like last fall, there’s this organization in San Diego called “Picture Party, ” and they’re a photography 
collective… they host events like picture parties where 
they all just gather and take photos and it’s usually split up 
between models and photographers and they kind of free-
form. Last year we collaborated with them at their event 
they hosted here at UCSD, and so we received a bunch of 
submissions and we used that for our magazine that issue. This latest issue is actually very experimental. Our designer, 
Leo, is calling it an “anti-fashion magazine, ” just kind of taking fashion as far away from what fashion is typically seen and in terms of viewing it in mainstream fashion 
magazines becoming corporatized in recent years and kind 
of sanitized, very clean. So this issue is very fragmented, so 
he used those submissions from Picture Party and he made 
this really interesting collage art of one face but using all 
these faces pieced together. And we’re going to do more 
of a traditional type Q&A article on our website, so the 
magazine itself will be just that visual. And the new issue 
is also just kind of very conceptual. Compared to our last 
issue there’s less photography and less fashion, and there’s 
more design so it’s very abstract and ambient. There’s three 
articles, one is about transparency, one is about fragrance, 
and one is about music. And so the design of each takes the 
feelings the article evokes ... It’s flipping fashion on its head.  G: How would someone join FQ if they were interested in 
it, or if they wanted to learn more? Z: Now that we have a website, it’s much easier to join. 
There’s going to be a contact section where you can ask about availabilities. During the year itself once we have our 
set team we typically don’t accept new applicants unless we 
have a need for it, but we’re thinking of having more of a 
rolling application… 
G: What do you think the FQ contributes to the UCSD 
community?Z: So I think at times UCSD has a stereotype of being kind 
of dull and artless, and that the students aren’t interested in these sorts of things … I think that we’re showing that’s 
not quite true, and that there’s real interest in this. At our 
launch party last year over 100 people came, and we’re 
expecting about the same this year, and I think that putting 
out student-run art and creation is really important but also 
[shows] that people are interested in it. 
For more information, or to read Fashion Quarterly’s recent content, visit https://fashionquarterly.wordpress.com
10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
La Jolla Playhouse’s “Diana” gives a rocking, royal treatment to the late Princess of W ales’ life.
English royalty has proven to be a fruitful 
subject for theater, with classics like “Richard II” and “Henry V” capturing the 
interest of countless productions. But medieval men aren’t the only ones with lives of drama ripe for theatrical adaptations. With a royal life told upon the world’s tabloid covers, it’s unsurprising 
that Diana, Princess of W ales, would be next in 
line for a dramatization of her high-profile life. “Diana, ” which runs Feb. 19 to April 14 at the La Jolla Playhouse, chronicles the princess’ royal life through lively dance numbers and tongue-in-
cheek lyrics.
Introduced as a sweet, unsuspecting 19-year-
old kindergarten teacher, Diana (Jeanna de W aal) 
is swiftly courted by and married to the prim and 
proper Prince Charles (Roe Hartrampf), heir to 
Britain’s throne. After that, the musical wastes no time in highlighting the princess’ ill-matched relationship with Charles. For instance, their vastly different personalities and upbringings are 
illustrated during a cellist’s performance. “I love 
Mozart, ” Diana quips, but Charles corrects her: “It’s Bach. ”
Despite enjoying widespread adoration from 
the public, Diana feels trapped in the confines of royal life. She quietly wrestles with her husband’s affair with his long-time friend and lover, Camilla Parker Bowles (Erin Davie). The arrival of a handsome (and topless) James Hewitt 
(Gareth Keegan) easily attracts Diana and turns the royal couple’s begrudging tolerance of each 
other into a rivalry. In developments that are more than welcomed by the scandal-hungry 
British press, both royal members indulge in 
their lovers and make bold declarations and statements to the public. In Diana’s case, they are fashion statements. One notable scene is where 
Diana, showered in bright lights and mobbed by 
reporters, tears off a glimmering white dress and unveils a head-turning, sultry red dress.
Occurring just as suddenly as in real life, 
“Diana” ends in tragedy. But after the ill-fated 
car crash, the musical lacks a strong resolution, 
which is part of its larger problem with pacing. Major events occur without build-up or time to settle in, though this more surface-level approach 
is understandable due to the large amount of 
material the play attempts to cover. The play does a mostly successful job in guiding viewers who may be unacquainted with Diana’s life, by splicing headlines throughout scenes to give context.
Some performances, coupled with efficient 
blocking techniques (the movement of actors on stage) and simple yet effective set changes, wonderfully convey the character’s emotions. 
Diana’s Jeanna de W aal stands out with a powerful 
singing voice and a down-to-earth charm. The rest of the actors play and sing their parts well, with wit, dance skills, and British accents to boot. However, most songs and lines are unmemorable 
and leave audiences simply remembering the drama and the storyline. To put it simply, it feels 
as though Diana’s life is narrated to us through typical contemporary musical theater songs, 
with not much added originality in style. The 
musical’s determination to hit all the dramatic events overlooks their characterization of Diana, Charles, and Camilla. They are simplified into 
mere characters, rather than actual multifaceted 
people.
For example, Charles is played adeptly by a 
very princely Roe Hartrampf, but his character is reduced to hanging on the sidelines in most 
scenes, reacting coldly and callously when needed 
to drive the tension. Diana, too, only receives a brief look at her life outside her relationship, such as in regards to her involvement with the AIDS 
crisis. A moving scene shows Diana shaking 
hands with HIV-affected patients, marking a pivotal moment in public awareness when most people incorrectly believed that HIV could be transmitted by touch.
But what the play lacks in its British source 
material is made up by its American influences. Created by Tony-winning American writers and director, a rather British-centric story receives 
an American makeover, and it works. The best 
moments during the play are when the seemingly straight-laced characters drop a string of f-bombs (“The Dress”), or when classical music suddenly transforms into rock and pop (“This Is How 
Y our People Dance”). Innuendos that pepper the corners of the script, as well as the splashy reveals 
of Diana’s iconic outfits, garner laughs and cheers. Other moments, like seeing the two royal couples 
in beds beside each other, are effectively amusing. 
Winking fourth-wall breaks by side characters, who watch and narrate the unfolding of events, provide entertaining interactions between 
audience and actors.
Maybe an autobiographical account of the 
princess is not necessary in this medium. The 
musical’s several sold-out shows demonstrate its success among fans of British royalty and musical 
theater, two groups that share an appreciation 
of drama and entertainment. That’s why, despite writing issues, the story of Diana works on a stage. Ultimately, “Diana” is a light, fun revisit of 
some of the biggest headlines of the ‘80s and ‘90s. 
A musical fit for a princess? For that, “Diana” takes the crown.
“Diana” runs Feb. 19 to April 14 at the La Jolla 
Playhouse. Discounted tickets are $10 with a UC 
San Diego student ID. They must be picked up at 
the box office window one hour before showtime if seating is available.
 
—  Natalie Tran
Senior Staff Writer
PLAY   REVIEW
DIANA
Directed by   Christopher Ashley
Book and Lyrics by   Joe DiPietro, Music and Lyrics by David Bryan 
Starring  Jeanna de Waal, Roe Hartrampf, Erin Davie, Judy Kaye
Runs   February 19 - April 14, 2019CB
It’s been three years since the release of 
American Authors’ last studio album “What We Live For, ” and what a difference 
those years have made. American Authors rose to fame through releasing lively and uplifting songs like “Go Big or Go Home” and “Best 
Day of My Life. ” Their new album “Seasons, ” 
however, seems to reject this typical style for a darker, more mature sound.
One can hear this change in “Stay Around, ” 
American Authors’ gritty opening song on this 
album. The song initially seems fairly noisy and 
unimpressive, with an instrumental introduction featuring rowdy bass drum hits, slightly off-tune backing vocals, and synthesizer-dominant 
harmonies. Y et somehow, the band manages to 
make this strange combination of sounds work to their advantage once their edgy-sounding vocals kick in, giving the song an upbeat yet somber energy. In fact, many other songs in the 
album have a similar vibe; you can hear it in “Say 
Amen, ” “Calm Me Down, ” and “Neighborhood” most clearly. The band seems to be trying to blend their alternative and folk rock origins with a heavy rock sound. Although it’s often difficult 
to merge two distinct styles of music effectively without having one style overtake the other, 
American Authors have somehow sidestepped this problem and created a palatable final 
product representative of both genres.
Not only is the general sound of the album 
much heavier, the lyrics also reflect the band’s shift towards a more serious atmosphere. 
“Neighborhood” showcases this the best, featuring angst-filled lines such as, “Who am I, I don’t know what I’m fighting for. ” The lyrical themes in “Seasons” reflect somber topics, such 
as failing at achieving aspirations in “Deep 
Water” to finding oneself during an identity crisis in “Before I Go. ” These ideas are markedly negative compared to the generally jubilant 
emotions American Authors’ older songs 
instilled in listeners.
While the album is certainly a bit gloomy, it 
is not completely depressing. “Seasons” includes tracks like “I Wanna Go Out, ” “Can’t Stop Me 
Now, ” and “Bring It on Home, ” all of which exude 
a positive energy akin to their older works. The similarities seem to stop there, though, for even these songs have some heavier rock elements than what is typical for the band. One just has 
to hear the guitar solo in “Can’t Stop Me Now” to understand the difference. As much as the 
band tries to show off their musical flexibility in this album, they just can’t seem to shake 
off how good they are with cheerful concepts. 
These three tracks are probably the highlights of this album, showing how the band has truly 
mastered the art of composing feel-good songs.
Like every album, however, “Seasons” has 
some flaws. Most notably, while the band does 
a fantastic job carrying a similar, heavy-indie fusion sound throughout the entire track list, 
they didn’t put in as much effort making sure 
the songs were distinct from each other. “Say Amen, ” “Deep Water, ” and “Calm Me Down, ” for example, all have a vocal riff in their choruses 
that sound uncannily similar to each other. 
While this could be just a coincidence, it gives listeners the impression that the band lacks originality, and must have replicated parts of their music into different songs to pad the album 
length. This incidentally sets up the next flaw — 
the album is too short. If anything, this criticism is a test to the band’s solid performance, but with the album clocking in at only around 35 minutes, “Seasons” leaves listeners with a small 
yet noticeable yearning for more. Finally, the heavy-indie rock sound may not be to everyone’s 
taste. As mentioned before, the album is on the louder side. Combined with their coarse-
sounding instrumentals, “Seasons” may be a bit 
harsh to listeners unfamiliar with this band who appreciate more mild music.
With another album under their belt, 
American Authors once again proved their worth in the rock scene. “Seasons” is a bold and compelling attempt by the 13-year-old band to step outside their comfort zone and try out a 
new darker sound and image. While the band 
is unlikely to ever escape the fact that they perform best with youthful and cheery concepts, American Authors have shown that it’s possible 
for them to successfully venture off into new 
styles. Hopefully, the next time they try out something new, they offer more than 35 minutes of it. 
—  steven  zhou
 Contributing Writer
Seasons
by  American  Authors
Release Date  February 1, 2019ALBUM   REVIEW
B-American Authors takes a detour from their usual genre and 
explores a darker side to their musicianship with “Seasons. ”LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Crystal healing is the popular pseudoscience of today, with stores like Urban Outfitters selling 
crystal and stone “sets” to try and promote balance and stability. Although crystal healing has been 
a spiritual procedure for centuries, the popularity surrounding crystals has become more prevalent thanks to celebrities like Kylie Jenner and Miranda Kerr who often promote their own practices using crystals. As UC San Diego students, most of us know the power of placebos and the mind’s 
determination. While one can debate whether the effects of crystal energy are real, it cannot be 
disputed that the power of the mind can have significant effects on our belief systems. If you need an extra pick-me-up to get your Spring Quarter started, consider placing these crystals next to your bed or keeping them in your pocket when you need them as your own personal lucky charm.
Sodalite for anxiety
Sodalite’s calming blue color is said to help with anxiety, especially when used during meditation. 
This “Stone of Peace” is said to help with panic attacks and in any situation where calmness is needed. This crystal could be helpful as a way to calm yourself before a big midterm or homework assignment.
Tiger’s eye for motivation
Tiger’s Eye, a black crystal with brown stripes, is popular for protection and making other crystal 
effects even stronger. However, it can also be used to replace feelings of procrastination with feelings of motivation, which can come especially handy on days when you’re eating your third snack in bed while finishing another season of your favorite TV show instead of that homework due tomorrow.Citrine for prosperity
Citrine is a transparent yellow stone that is said to replace fear and anxiety with prosperity and 
success for your dreams and anything you wish to manifest for your life. This stone could be helpful in acing that difficult exam and securing that well-desired A in your toughest class. It could also help 
seniors bring prosperity in their career life as they apply for internships, jobs, or whatever they’re 
hoping to pursue after graduation.
Smoky quartz for stress
This brown or black transparent crystal promotes strength and stability in times of stress. UCSD  
students know stress well, whether it be through a heavy course load or demanding extra-curriculars. Consider carrying this crystal with you in times when the stress is really hitting you, like during midterms or finals week.
There is a crystal for anything you may be feeling. Personally, I enjoy crystals because of their 
ability to make us aware of our emotions. It can be easy to toss emotions away in favor of getting work done, but sometimes keeping a calming crystal next to our bed can keep us in check and remind us to stay calm and positive. Even if you don’t believe in crystals, it may be worth giving a new good-luck-charm a try to remind you to take steps to keep being the best version of yourself. Crystals for Spring Quarter
By SAmirah  martinez        Lifestyle staff writerWelcome to spring quarter, Tritons! The sun is back and the buds are blooming which 
means two major things for La Jolla: beach days and patio seating. While the sand and sea seem 
inviting, explore other facets of San Diego with these fun on- and off-campus events. 
On April 5, Galaxy Taco will be hosting their complimentary tasting, offered the first Friday 
of every month from 5-8 pm! 21+ guests will receive a free sample of Codigo 1530 Tequila and cocktail specials highlighting the spirit will be available for purchase. Galaxy Taco “partners with different tequila and mezcal brands regularly to educate guests about how the chosen spirit 
is harvested and what foods it pairs best with. ”
Feel like a live show? The Old Globe is showing Life After, a new musical that follows the 
life of a young woman after a loss in her family, until April 28. For a classic, head to the Civic 
Theater where the California Ballet Company will be performing Cinderella from April 12 to April 14. 
Get your best voguing ready for Saved by the ‘90s and House of Blues’ Neon ‘90s Party  on 
April 6! Come in your brightest colors and dance the night away with neon party swag, a ‘90s featured menu, and prizes. This event is 21+. 
Art Alive  at the San Diego Museum of Art is back from April 11 to April 14. Marvel at 100 floral interpretations of masterpieces and enjoy four full days of flower-filled events. Tickets are free for members and are $25 for non-members. 
Ten graduate students will compete at the Grad SLAM  final round on April 11. Head to 
the Multipurpose room to hear three-minute research talks from various disciplines, including chemistry, theatre, neuroscience, engineering, and biology, before the judges announce the winner of this year’s competition. 
Catch them all at the next Bear Garden: Pokemon Edition  on April 12. Eat free food, enjoy 
drinks, and play games to win a variety of fun prizes. 
Round off your April with every student’s favorite event: Sun God Festival . For one day, 
RIMAC field turns into a full-on music festival, complete with major artists, lounge areas, interactive booths, food, and various activities. You don’t want to miss this UCSD tradition. 
Celebrate Earth Day with Balboa Park’s EarthFair  on April 28. Visit over 300 exhibitions, 
including an eHome area, where you can explore products and technologies to make your home more environmentally friendly, browse the eARTh Gallery, enjoy music from local artists, and grab a vegetarian bite at the food pavilion.P eeks and P reviews: March
By ANNIKA  OLIVES        Lifestyle Editor12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Let’s face it; going to UC San Diego is hard, and we students are 
no strangers to tears. Group cries are always fun, but when you 
want to sob by yourself, I’ve compiled a list of the perfect places 
on campus to let it all out.  
(Inspired by a UCSD Confessions post. Thank you, anonymous 
crier.)
Geisel Study Rooms
Everyone goes for the study rooms on the second floor, but the 
rooms on the upper floors are the real prize here. There’s nothing like pure peace and solitude in everyone’s favorite study space. 
Pro tip: Book a room that faces the part of campus that is the 
cause of your pain. The tears will come faster. 
The Random Table Between Mandeville Hall and AP&M
Bonus points if it’s nighttime; nobody can see you through the 
brambles. 
The Top of any Tall Building 
Get to the rooftop garden in Keeling Apartments or to the top 
floor of Tioga hall for the best ocean views while you sink into your blues. But, a fair warning, try not to scream too loud if you’re on the top of the Student Services Center; we don’t want to scare the prospective freshmen in the Admissions office! 
The Middle of Marshall Field
Bold? Yes. Dark? Yes. Slightly damp? Yes. 
The Bathroom in McGill Hall
Found out about a bad midterm grade in the middle of Pines and 
need a moment to yourself? This bathroom is conveniently located, and the weird double door situation and lack of renovations will be your friends as they deter many people from passing through.
The Steps by Rady 
Especially at night, this place is quiet, secluded, and 
contemplative. Y ou could also try the grassy knoll next to them if you don’t feel like sitting on cement. 
Gilman Parking Structure 
If you can avoid the dance groups, this can be a great option. 
Sit close to the absurdly loud fan and, soon, you won’t even hear yourself. 
The Woods Behind Geisel 
Be at one with nature at your most vulnerable moment. 
La Jolla Ecological Reserve 
Alright, alright, it’s not really on campus, but it’s close enough 
that you could get to it in only fifteen minutes or so. If you’re in a more reflective mood, enjoy the walk and spot a few bunnies before taking a seat at the cliffs and letting the sound of the waves drown out your sorrows. You may confuse the hang gliders at first, but they’ll eventually understand.Best On-Campus Places To Cry
By ANNIKA  Olives     LIFESTYLE EDITORCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
AS Vice Presidential & Presidential Debates
Vote on Tritonlink April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for more information
AS VICE PRESIDENTIAL / PRESIDENTIAL DEBATESTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 1 - APR 72019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN THURSDAY & FRIDAY APRIL 4&5 • 12pm
get
listed...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@u csdguar dian.org5pm
AS FUNDING TOWNHALL – 
GOVERNANCE CHAMBERS, PRICE 
CENTER EAST, 4TH FLOOR
Join us for our 2nd Townhall on AS Funding! We 
will be answering questions and discussing what 
changes should be made for the funding policies. 
Our Financial Controller and Sr. AVP of Student Organizations will be there to guide the discussion. If time allows, we will even be going over potential funding policy changes for the next school year so don't miss the opportunity to have your voice heard!TUE4.0212pm
AS VICE PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE – 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
The 2019 Student Election is here. Meet the 
AS Vice Presidential candidates and hear their thoughts on the issues at UC San Diego. Vote on Tritonlink April 8-12. 
Contact: aselections@ucsd.edu
5pm
JSA X NSU MATSURI 2019 – 
LIBRARY WALK
Matsuri is the Japanese word for "festival" 
and it's the biggest authentic Japanese cultural event held at UCSD! UCSD's Matsuri 
is guaranteed to entertain people of all ages. 
Admission is open to UCSD students and the 
general public so please come out and join us! There will be many Japanese foods, games, performances, and activities to bring you a traditional Japanese Matsuri festival right here in San Diego. Invite your friends and family to experience this Japanese cultural festival together! 
Ticket Prices: $1 for food tickets, $0.50 for 
game tickets  
https://www.facebook.com/ucsdmatsuri/
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS 
PRESENTS: SPIDER-MAN: INTO THE SPIDER- VERSE – PRICE 
CENTER THEATER
Join us for a movie night in Price Center 
Theatre where we will be screening TWO SHOWINGS "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse." 
First Screening: Doors @ 5PM, Movie at 
5:30PM / Second Screening: Doors @ 7:30PM, 
Movie at 8PM 
8pm
LOVE FOR LEARNING: 
EDUCATION AWARENESS NIGHT – 
PC EAST BALLROOM
Get ready for a night of inspiring guest 
speakers, free food/raffles, an amazing performance by Jules Aurora and MUCH MORE! M.E.M.O. will be hosting our third annual awareness night called "Love for Learning", focusing on education! Through this event, we hope to educate our local community about the educational disparities that exist in developing countries. This event is free and open to all UCSD students. Doors open at 7:30 pm so get there early to earn more raffle tickets!
Contact: k7quach@ucsd.eduTHU4.04
HIRING: TRITON COMMUNITY 
PROGRAMMING LEADERS– 
ONLINE
The Office of Parent and Family Programs is 
now hiring Triton Community Programming Leaders for the 2019-2020 academic year. 
Were offering a flexible schedule and great 
experience where you can help plan events 
like Family Weekend and Siblings Day, develop your student leadership skills. Apply 
now at: parents.ucsd.edu
Contact: baledesma@ucsd.edu
12pm
AS PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE – 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
The 2019 Student Election is here. Meet the 
AS Presidential candidates and hear their thoughts on the issues at UC San Diego. Vote 
on Tritonlink April 8-12. 
Contact: aselections@ucsd.edu
7pm
MADISON GREENSTONE, 
CLARINETS - GRADUATE RECITAL – CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
10TH ANNUAL REVELLUTION – REVELLE PLAZA
FREE FOOD! FREE GAMES! LIVE MUSIC! 
Welcome to the REVELLUTION! It'll be a night to remember as we celebrate 10 years of concerts in the plaza. Kick off Spring quarter right! Contact: kbouwman@ucsd.eduFRI4.05 MON4.01
7pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music 
collaboration between four musicians with 
diverse backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a 
unique project matching masterpieces of the 
chamber music repertoire with a group of 
world-class instrumentalists who happen to 
call San Diego home. 
Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
SAT2.099am
PEPPER CANYON MOBILITY HUB 
DESIGNATHON - UC SAN DIEGO WARREN MALL (RAIN OR SHINE )
The Pepper Canyon Mobility Hub Designathon 
is a design competition that will help transform Pepper Canyon Trolley Station, currently under construction, into a dynamic mobility hub. Designathons are intensive, immersive events where interdisciplinary teams develop smart sociotechnical designs that respond to real world challenges. Undergraduates, graduate students, high school students, neighbors, designers of all kinds, engineers, technologists, media-makers, planners, artists, and future users are all invited to participate. Fully-formed teams, partial teams, and individuals welcome. 
Saturday April 6 + Sunday April 7 9AM - 9PM 
both days. Info and register @ 
https://sites.google.com/ucsd.edu/peppercan
yondesignathon/home
10am
MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICATION 
CLINIC - GREAT HALL, 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Join Health Beat advisors at the Career 
Centers new Medical School Application Clinic 
for an in-depth look at the AMCAS application 
and tips on how to take some of the stress out of applying. Our team will walk through the application cover to cover, including key dates, letters of evaluation, selecting the right school for you, and more. Plus, attendance at this clinic prioritizes your application for virtual review by one of our advisors. Contact: jkongthong@ucsd.edu
11am
HACKXX – UC SAN DIEGO
HackXX is a women-centric, all-inclusive hackathon focusing on promoting gender equality. Come through to create awesome hacks during the 24 hour event, and meet other ambitious students passionate about tech! You’ll have the chance to chat and network with mentors and industry professionals, as well as broaden your skills through our technical workshops. And of course we'll have plenty of food and swag! :D 
www.hackxx.io  Contact: evon@tesc.ucsd.edu
7pm
UNDERGRADUATE HONORS: 
REMI HA, PIANO - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL ENSEMBLE 
PRESENTS HAIRSPRAY! - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Don’t miss Muir Musical Ensembles 
production of Hairspray! Packed with music you know and love, from upbeat show tunes to the rhythm and blue, the student show will run from Apr. 6-13 in Mandeville Auditorium. Tickets are on sale now through the UC San Diego Box Office. The Muir Musical is the largest and the only musical theater on campus completely student directed and produced. Begun at Muir College in 1991, the production team is comprised of over 100 dedicated undergraduate students representing all colleges and diverse majors.
Contact: erjohnson@ucsd.edu 858-534-9372SAT4.06
9am
TRITON 5K - TRITON TRACK & 
FIELD, UC SAN DIEGO
The 23rd annual Triton 5K & Festival is Sunday, 
April 7, 2019! Start training now for the 3.1 mile, USATF-sanctioned scenic trek through the heart of the UC San Diego campus. Race proceeds support student scholarships and the Campaign for UC San Diego our comprehensive fundraising effort to transform the student experience, our campus, and ultimately the way humanity approaches problems and develops solutions.
Contact: jmdean@ucsd.edu
11pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM PRESENTS: 
GRUNION RUNS - BIRCH AQUARIUM 
AT SCRIPPS
Join aquarium naturalists to see hundreds of 
small silver fish called Grunion ride the waves onto La Jolla beaches to spawn. Learn about the fascinating lives of these mysterious fish, hatch Grunion eggs before your eyes, and then head to the beach to observe Grunion in the wild. Prepare for cool, wet conditions and bring a flashlight. Minors must attend with a paid adult, for ages 6+. Each event runs until 1:00AM 
Pre-purchase required: 858.534.7336 or at 
aquarium.ucsd.edu
Members/Public: $18/$20Contact: aquariuminfo@ucsd.eduSUN4.07PRICE CENTER PLAZA
11:30am
MEDITATION SERIES WITH VOU 
ATHENS – RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 3
Foundations of Meditation: Stress Reduction 
through Mindfulness and Meditation In this 4-part series, experience deep relaxation and a calming of the mind. Come away with the experience to apply specific mindfulness and meditation techniques to everyday life to reduce stress, improve well-being and center the mind. Science and philosophy of practice included. All levels welcome. Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu
4pm
UCDC & UCCS INFORMATION 
SESSION – PRICE CENTER WEST, 
BEAR ROOM 
To kick off the Spring quarter, we'll be hosting a 
UCDC & UCCS Info Session at 4pm, PC West Bear Room. Stop by to learn about the opportunities available for you and the ways you can explore what you want to do in the future!
Contact: jhomrich@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 BLACK LIVES MATTER - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL 
Black Lives Matter, arias and duets from X: The 
Life and Times of Malcolm X, Amistad and Central Park Five with bassist Kevin Short, baritone Carl DuPont, and pianist Alan Johnson.
General Admission: $15.50
UCSD Faculty, Staff, Alumni: $10.50Student Rush: Free with IDContact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.eduWED4.0314  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SPRING CLEANINGCLASSI FIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o community.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Barely sufficient
6. E.g. and etc., e.g.11. Second addendum to a letter, briefly
14. Queen of talk shows
15. Legal right
16. Novelist Santha Rama ___17. Farmer’s wish19. Contraction in “The Star-Spangled 
Banner”
20. Letters at the end of a page, some-
times
21. Start anew, as a relationship23. They go to a higher court
27. Stamps and sends again
28. ___-Magnon
29. Slowly permeate31. Candy bar center, perhaps32. Kon-___ (Heyerdahl’s craft)
34. Binary code elements
36. Code-cracking intelligence org.
37. Chop sticks?38. Dear, as a price40. “So what ___ is new?”43. Unruly bunch45. Asian inland sea46. Spumante source47. Shoulder wraps50. Get a point across?52. Lifeboat must53. Cup parts55. You can get a shot in with it57. Has talent for59. Longish span60. Drowned valley61. Lewis Carroll poem66. For each67. Father of Moses and Aaron68. Bowl opening?69. Put two and two together70. Brings up71. Broad white collarsDOWN
1. Kind of sister2. Guts of a PC3. Wrestling type
4. Half of a cone
5. Some Greek consonants
6. Gen. ’s assistant7. Wintertime comment8. Bronx cheerleader, e.g.
9. Legend among shortstops
10. One of the Apostles
11. Jesus’ parable about a wayward 
youth
12. Saffron-flavored dish
13. Superlatively self-confident
18. Contests for lumberjacks
22. Seasickness23. Official records24. Grand ___ racing
25. Traded item among youth
26. Heroine of Wagner’s “The Flying 
Dutchman”
30. Jurymen
33. Tristan’s love35. Theater capacity39. Football or baseball follower41. Alone at the prom42. The Auld Sod44. Sylvia Plath novel (with “The”)47. Guide for a mountaineer48. Moved down the runway49. Ali Baba incantation word51. Window shop via the Internet54. Kibbutz native56. Desk basket words58. Type of ski lift62. Dummies have two and mummies 
have three
63. Navy noncom64. Barbie’s male friend65. Jr. and sr.CARS
2015 Hyundai Accent GLS GLS 4dr 
Sedan. CarMax makes car buying easy and hassle-free. Our upfront prices are the same on-line and on our lot. All our pre-owned cars come with free vehicle history and safety recall reports (certain vehicles may have unrepaired safety recallscheck nhtsa.gov/recalls to learn if this vehicle has an unrepaired safety recall), plus a 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee, and a 30-Day Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT, MN, and RI; 90-Day in MA, NJ, and NY). Price excludes government charges and taxes, any finance fees, $80 dealer document preparation charge (not required by law)… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Lexus GS 350 Base 4dr Sedan. 
Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean youll never have to haggle and you can concentrate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT and MN; 90-Day in MA, NY, and NJ). See our store for written info, and visit carmax.com to this and thousands more cars on-line. Certain vehicles may have open safety recalls. Check with safecar.gov… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Used Nissan Armada 2015, 2015 Pre-
owned Nissan Armada for Sale… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Bmx Aluminum Race Bike PRO CONCEPT/ XXL 22” t.t./ Profile. Up for sale is 1 of my Premiere 20” BMX Race bikes. This bike is for a Specific Individual, that wants an awesome Turn-key Race bike, that is Safe (Stable and Predictable) to ride, but also Performs at the Level necessary to Win races! The XXL frame makes the bike easier to control than most 20” bikes for all racers, and obviously the length of the frame, is an asset for Tall riders. Included in the Sale at N/C is an opportunity for 
the buyer to receive a Private Clinic at 
the Track during their Racing practice at 
Kearny Moto Park!... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information52cm Centurion “Le Mans RS” , freshly tuned in San Diego, CA. 52 cm (c-c) Centurion ‘Le Mans RS’ twelve speed, now available! Tange two Cr-Mo lugged steel frame, and Mangaloy fork. 27” alloy Araya wheelset w/Suzue hubs. SunTour Cyclone derailleur and shifters, Dia-Compe brakes, and Sugino cranks. 1 of the best exam...ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Fat Tire Beach Cruisers San Diego. Our 
fat tire beach cruisers are made with high grade quality parts and the most beautiful paint job you will ever see on fat tire cruisers. Nobody can match our quality and exotic colors. Fat tire bikes have been around for 10yrs mainly used in the mountains through snow and sand terrain. However, these beach cruis-ers are perfect for beach boardwalks, hard sand terrain, and subdivision path-ways… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Norco Sight 7.1 2014. MINT CONDITION, 
ORIGINAL OWNER, PURCHASED NEW 8/2014, SIZE M (17), 27.5, FOX Suspension… ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
HOUSING
1735 Charmant Drive #107 $1995. Coming soon - UTC CONDO FOR RENT - UTC CONDO FOR RENT - $1,995.00/mo. Great opportunity to rent this fabu -
lous Condo In UTC! This 1 bedroom plus 1 den Condo enjoys peace and quiet while being just steps away from all the conveniences of shopping, restaurants, banks, and more. A Walkscore of 54, Transit Score of 48, the location is right on the bus line to UCSD, the hospitals, UTC Westfield mall. The “super loop. ” … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
5011 63rd Street $5800. 6 bedroom 3 
bath near SDSU - Lease Starts August 2019. Close to SDSU - 63rd & Montezuma. 6 bedroom, 3 bathroom house. Tile floors, carpeted bedrooms, exposed beam high ceilings, open floor plan. On site parking for 5 cars! This house is a must see for a group of 6 wanting a comfortable living space for the school year… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
425 W Beech Street Unit 410 $1995. 
Aqua Vista Condo For Rent - 1bed/1bath Condo For Rent Located In Charming Little Italy. This Cozy Home Boasts Expansive Windows, Gourmet Kitchen, Granite Countertops, Central Air, City Views from your Balcony. Building Has Great Amenities, Including, Valet Parking, Exercise Center, Heated Pool And Hot Tub And Full Time Security… ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
2
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduSixth College to be Razed for New Football Stadium
UCSD Student Has Perfect March Madness BracketUCSD’s newest college to be replaced by sprawling new stadium meant to increase applications. 
If you live on campus or have 
classes in and around Sixth College, 
you’ve undoubtedly noticed the ugly 
fencing and heaps of dirt behind 
the residential halls of the campus’ most foresty college. That’s because, 
as Chancellor Khosla announced on April 1 at midnight to unsurprisingly little fanfare or media attention, UC San Diego is adding a football team. 
Much of UCSD’s student body 
applied and chose to attend UCSD knowing fully well that the school would never have a football team, and that, consequently, they would 
never get the full college experience 
of tailgating and celebrating a big win over a hated rival. 
As part of a UC system-wide 
push to make attending UC schools more appealing, UCSD decided to add a football team. 
“We just were so close to UCLA 
in terms of application numbers, ” 
UCSD admissions o fficer Dee 
Struction said. “We figured the 
easiest way to catch up would be to 
cave in and add a football team. ”
As far as getting rid of Sixth 
College, no one in the administration really seemed to mind. 
“They really are just extras, ” 
Struction said. “We figure all of the 
new students we normally would place in Sixth can just live in the 
stands of the new stadium, or in 
overflow housing around campus, 
and that’s better than the current Sixth housing anyways. ”
Sixth College’s dining hall will 
become a concessions stand running on Dining Dollars, and the rest of college will be flattened to make way 
for stands, a field, and, of course, a 
jumbotron.  
Regardless of the current state 
of Sixth College’s housing stock, 
bulldozing the school’s newest 
college seems like an unwise decision considering the rising student population. But having a football team would be an amazing 
addition to a student life scene that 
is known to force students into becoming ‘socially dead’ .
UC San Diego is not a school of 
sports fans. Only around 1,000 fans attend the school’s own basketball games. But don’t let that fool you. 
Student mathematicians at UCSD 
salivate over March Madness every year, without watching a single game. 
“We love the thrill of probabilities 
being broken down, ” reigning bracket champion and statistician Hugh Mungus said. “It really makes my whole spring break. ”
The nerd population at UCSD 
is high, and with that comes a high 
population of probability lovers. 
And what is March Madness if not a maddening display of probabilities being broken down by underdogs, much to the dismay of sports fans 
across the country. 
Ann Tartica, a third-year student 
at UCSD, has gone back-to-back 
years with a perfect bracket, making 
her one of the richest students on 
campus. But don’t call her lucky. She and the March Madness club on campus, a group of probability geeks and mathematicians, have the art of filling out a bracket down to 
a science. 
And UCSD mathematics 
students don’t just observe the fleeting hopes of their fellow 
students as their brackets fail. They 
compete themselves, and more o ften 
than not, they win.
“It’s a sort of culture of winning 
we’ve developed here, ” fourth-year student and March Madness club 
president Des Beratto said. “We 
never lose. Never. ”
Since the club’s founding back 
in 2014, one member of the group has consistently filled out America’s 
best bracket, beating out hundreds of thousands of analysts and super 
fans around the country. 
The club’s success has not 
made them arrogant or pompous 
though; they remain humble and understand that they are new in the 
world of college hoops. The group 
has no social media presence, and 
no real presence in general, instead relying on secretive methods of 
recruitment. 
“We really can’t tell you how we 
see potential future club members, 
and we especially can’t tell you our secret algorithm, ” Beratto said. 
As the school continues to 
push towards becoming Division 
I, it will soon become eligible to 
join the race to earn a berth in the March Madness tournament. This 
season, the only UC school in the tournament, UC Irvine, lost in 
the round of 32. Over the coming 
years, hopefully, the UCSD March Madness club has a chance to pencil the Tritons into their own brackets.
Jack dorfman   sports@ucsdguardian.org
Jack dorfman   sports@ucsdguardian.orgBY Jack Dorfman
Sports Editor
BY Jack Dorfman
Sports Editor
COURTESY OF AMBER HAUW16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 1, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Have You Seen These People?
Adriana
- overshares constantly
- purposefully overworks
- bad taste in men
Daisy
- probably immortal
- trying her best
- has strong opinions about 
the oxford comma
Annika
- has opinions that you will 
never here- fled to EuropeChristopher
- can’t read- has no friends
- has never been on a date
Chloe
- went to Europe and you’re 
gonna hear about it
- bouncy walker
Francesca
- Bus driver
- hates STEM kids- is a STEM kid 
Alex
- hopeless romantic and graphic designer- most likely to send you a playlist- hates LaurenTyler
- not the custodian of your feelings- should’ve been fired by now- thinks drinking is a personality
Lauren
- wine mom- not as funny as she thinks she is- can’t tell people no
Hojune
- always judging you- sarcasm is his first language- breaks the third wall 
Anthony
- likes to draw- quiet- birthday is April 1st (or is it?)Jack
- schoolboy energy- knows more about baseball than your dad
Jade
- thinks we all need a raise- best friends with the corgi man - demon woman
Kritin
- biggest nerd at the paper- knows more about pokemon than Satoshi Tajiri
Ranjani
- backbone of the paper- can read- just wants you to spell out the word ‘percent’
Tag Yourself!