A housing campaign organized by a group of 
graduate students marched for an hour around the Chancellor’s Complex in favor of a graduate 
housing rent-freeze on April 2. The demonstration was organized after Housing Dining Hospitality overruled a recommendation by the Associated Residential Community Housing Advisory Committee to freeze graduate housing rental rates for the upcoming year. 
Petia Y anchulova Merica-Jones, a member of 
ARCHAC, told the UCSD Guardian in an email that the committee had rejected HDH’s proposals to increase the cost of graduate housing over a four-year period on March 28 due to a lack of “sufficient information and 
financials (debt financials, cash flows) to motivate rental 
rate increases. ” The committee voted 6–0 in favor, with two members abstaining, for a rent-freeze for the 2019-2020 school year. 
On the morning of April 2, the HDH director 
of housing sent an email to residents in graduate housing regarding the new rental rates set to take effect for the 2019-2020 school year. The graduate housing communities of One Miramar St., South and Central Mesa, The Rita and Coast will see rental rate increases of 3 percent. Mesa Nueva rates will increase by 5 percent for all units except for studios, which will increase by 6 percent to account for the “greater correction on the interest-only rates set in 2018 since [studio units] were priced significantly lower than other unit types based on construction cost, ” according to the email. HDH is able to overrule ARCHAC’s recommendation because the committee is advisory and its decisions nonbinding. 
“Based on the input received, [HDH is] moving 
forward with capping rate increases to [One Miramar St., South and Central Mesa, The Rita and Coast] at 3 percent inflation, in line with salary increases for teaching assistants, ” the email reads. “This means that Nuevo East and Nuevo West rates will need to cover interest and principal mortgage payments. Mesa Nueva rates will need to catch up over time to cover the appropriate building debt due starting in 2019. All rates will continue to remain at least 20 percent below market value. Each resident will receive their individual increase notification letter based on their current occupancy location and unit type. ” 
Nuevo East and Nuevo West are a part of the $627 
million construction of the North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood.
In response, a group of graduate students called 
for a march near the Chancellor’s Complex later that morning. Approximately 30 student demonstrators wore red shirts that read “Educate! Agitate! Organize!” 
on the front and “UC Student-Workers Union” on the 
back. The protest was independently organized by the student-activists and not directly affiliated with the SWU.
The marchers’ slogans of “Listen Pradeep, the rent 
is too steep!” and “Listen Pierre, it’s just not fair!” directly referenced Chancellor Pradeep Khosla and Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer Pierre Ouillet, two key UC San Diego administrative figures.
In a document provided to the Guardian, the 
students listed the concerns they had with HDH’s decision to increase rental rates.    
“UCSD’s main motivation for rent increases is the 
large HDH debt from construction causing a large deficit in the HDH budget, ” the document said. “HDH has not provided a verifiable breakdown of their debt from a financial point of view, or the surplus [that] older buildings are generating. HDH has said [that] they misstated the amount of debt (and therefore deficit) on the budget they presented to ARCHAC in previous years, and [they refuse] to be [held] accountable for this. ”
Y anchulova Merica-Jones said that her concerns 
with the UCSD administration’s actions are a  matter of transparency.
 Chelsea Clinton will join the panel 
of Women In Leadership, held by Sally Ride Science at UC San Diego on May 22. The panelists will share their personal experiences and views on women’s roles to the nation and the world, aiming to empower women to become future leaders. 
Sally Ride Science at UC San 
Diego is a non-profit organization founded by Dr. Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, and four other co-founders, to promote STEM literacy. 
The Women in Leadership panelists 
invited are recognized as respected female leaders, pioneers in their own professional field, as well as important figures of women empowerment. The official website of this panel introduced their panelists as “trailblazers who have shattered barriers and  paved the way for women across the globe. ”Featured panelist Chelsea Clinton 
is an advocate for global health and women empowerment. As the only child of former U.S. President Bill Clinton and former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Chelsea Clinton is also the vice chair of the Clinton Foundation, an organization which aims to  help people create better futures for themselves, their families, and their communities. Moreover, VOLUME 52, ISSUE 22  MONDA Y , APRIL 8, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
New Librarian 
Contracts Settled After Six Months  
of  Bargaining
UC Librarians have been without a 
contract since September of 2018.
CAMPUS
Chelsea Clinton to Speak on Panel for Women’s Empowerment
Two nuns enjoy a sunny day in Balboa Park // Photo by Francesca HummlerUC Librarians belonging to 
the University Council-American 
Federation of Teachers Union announced the ratification of a 
newly negotiated contract on April 
1. The vote on the contract, known as a Memorandum of Understanding, yielded a 94 percent turnout rate, with,98 percent of participating 
members voting in support of 
ratification. Only a simple majority vote in favor of the MOU was needed 
for ratification.
The main changes in the contract 
include increased salaries and 
academic freedom protection. The 
new contract promises an increase of 
8.6 percent to the current salary for 
assistant and associate librarians and 
5.6 percent for librarians. There is also 
a 3- percent salary increase for every 
year of the contract.
Although UC-AFT is one of the 
smaller unions in the UC system, the 
contract will affect approximately 
350 librarians statewide. UC-AFT 
represents approximately 40 librarians 
at UC San Diego.
The previous five-year contract 
expired in September 2018, and the 
librarians were out of contract for six 
months until the ratification of the 
new five-year contract.
“The university and UC-AFT 
worked collaboratively at the bargaining table to reach a contract 
that is fair to both sides and recognizes 
our librarians’ contributions and dedication, ” Dwaine B. Duckett, vice president of UC Human Resources, 
said.  
UCSD librarians Laurel McPhee 
and Dominique Turnbow prepared 
the salary presentation and were 
instrumental throughout the contract’s 
negotiations. McPhee and Turnbow were later presented with an award for their salary presentation at a UC-AFT assembly meeting.
“ Academic freedom and salary 
negotiations were what mattered most, to most voters, ’’ Cristela Garcia-Spitz, a digital initiatives librarian at UCSD, 
told the UCSD Guardian.
Another change made from the prior 
contract pertained to the distribution 
of professional development funding, 
which Professional development 
funding is allocated to every UC campus each year to fund conferences and presentations, as well as promote academic professional associations 
and research. The previous contract 
showed that between 2014 and 2017, UCLA received the most PD funding of $71,354, and UC Merced the least with $5,151 annually (UCSD $25,298). 
According to UC-AFT, this was 
unequally distributed and inadequate because the funding was directly based on the headcount of the librarians 
at each campus in 2014 and that 
number could have varied for each By TROY Tuquero  Staff writerHOUSING
Students Protest Newest Rent Increase for Graduate HousingPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
The UCSD Guardian 
Editorial Board weighs 
in on our preferred 
candidates in the A.S. 
elections based on a series 
of in-depth interviews. 
CHEATING
ROCK N' ROOSEVEL Tlax  on  Academic  INtegrity 
a  night  in   reviewOpinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“...cheating results from 
a complex concoction 
of culture, success, 
opportunity, and 
expectations among other 
factors. It is unlikely that 
academic dishonesty 
will ever be completely 
eradicated.”MONDAY
 H 74 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 57
TUESDAY
H 67 L 59
THURSDAY
H 67 L 58
JOURNALISM...................4
ENDORSEMENTS............7
BILLIE EILISH..................10
SOCIAL MEDIA...............12
SOFTBALL.....................15UC SYSTEM
Geena Roberts
PAGE 4Hosted by Sally Ride Science at UC San Diego, the panel includes notable women in science and technology.
BY  ZY Lin & Abigail Staggemeier
Contributing Writer & Staff WriterBY  Zhuoying Lin
Contributing WriterA.S. Election
Endorsements
Features, page 7
See CLINTON,  page 3 See LIBRARIANS,  page 2
See PROTEST , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TRUE RICE By Anonymous
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianUC Campus News, a news 
aggregator that republished articles 
from student-run newspapers 
without permission or consistent author crediting from eight of the 
10 UC campuses, announced in an 
email to the UCSD Guardian that they would be closing effective April 
2, following inquiries from student 
editors.
After the Guardian emailed the 
aggregator asking whether or not the website had received permission to republish articles, UC Campus 
News replied with the following 
statement:
“UCCAMPUSNEWS.COM is 
closed as of today (4/2/2019). Only reason that I made this site was (I have a full-time job, this site 
was my extra time side job) to let 
UC STUDENTS read other schools’ newspaper. And I wasn’t willing to 
take a credit for the article. All my 
articles have an original author’s name and has links to original 
articles. Anyway, thanks for the 
good articles and keep it up. ”
Every article that was published 
was done so under the author name “Campus Mojo, ” and inconsistently listed where the pieces originated 
from at the bottom of the article 
with either a link to the original source and/or the author’s name. 
These credits were only given 
when the original source listed an author’s name at the bottom of the article, something that not every UC newspaper does.
The owner of UC Campus News 
declined to identify themselves in a follow up email.
While active, the website 
republished content from UC San Diego’s Guardian and Triton, UC 
Berkeley’s Daily Californian, UCLA ’s 
Daily Bruin, UC Santa Barbara’s Daily Nexus, UC Irvine’s New 
University, UC Davis’s California 
Aggie, UC Riverside’s Highlander, and UC Santa Cruz’s City on a Hill 
Press.
Over the course of Winter 
Quarter 2019, UC Campus News republished original content 
from the Guardian 15 separate times. Broken down, the website 
republished three opinion pieces, 
one news article, one feature, two lifestyle pieces, seven arts and 
entertainment pieces, and one 
sports article.
According to its website, UC 
Campus News was founded in February 2019 in Los Angeles as a “digital-first, independent 
newspaper with the goal of covering 
content relevant to all of the University of California campus 
communities. ” 
Nowhere on the website is it 
acknowledged that all of the content is repackaged from various campus 
newspapers.
UC Campus News also limited 
access to information on the amount of influence they had by disabling follower counts on its Facebook and 
Twitter pages.Many staffers from the 
organizations whose content had been republished by UC 
Campus News were unaware of the aggregator’s existence until 
the Guardian had reached out 
for comments. Caitlin Antonios, editor-in-chief of UC Irvine’s New 
University, said that while the 
articles republished from their organization did have links to the 
original source as well as author 
credits, they were never asked by the website to have their articles 
republished in the first place.
“It is disappointing to see the hard 
work we put into our website and articles be appropriated by someone 
else, ” Antonios said. “While the idea of having a website that consolidates 
UC news in one place is ... great, 
the website should simply post hyperlinks to the various articles 
instead of copying and pasting the 
articles and providing ... credit at the very bottom. We’re proud of the 
work we do on our website and are 
glad others find it important too, but republishing without directing 
readers to the original source for the 
full article is not the way to support college papers. ”
Emily Stack, editor-in-chief 
of UC Davis’s California Aggie, told the Guardian that while their 
organization does allow some 
republication of their content, this only comes with expressed 
permission, the promise to credit 
those that worked on the piece of content, and a link back to the 
original site.“We are happy to distribute our 
reporting with these protections, ” Stack said. “But without them, 
content aggregators take credit away from the hardworking 
members of our staff and pull 
viewers away from our website, which negatively impacts both our 
digital advertising revenue and our 
ability to meaningfully track digital engagement and respond to our 
readership. ”
Andreas Rauch, editor-in-chief 
of UC Riverside’s Highlander, said that his organization had 
not previously been aware of UC Campus News, but that he intended 
to contact the website soon and ask 
that their content be removed.
“This site is plagiarism, plain 
and simple,” Rauch said. “Using students’ work without their consent and republishing it as one’s 
own is a violation of journalistic 
ethics and constitutes [Intellectual Property] theft. We will be seeking 
to address this issue and possibly 
bringing legal means to bear if the site administrators don’t remove the 
content immediately. ”
After the closure of the 
aggregator had been announced, the management of UC Campus 
News declined to comment any further. As of the time this article 
is being written, no legal action has 
been taken against the currently unknown owner of the website.
BY  Jacob Sutherland 
Editorial Assistant
Jacob Sutherland  jasuther@ucsd.eduUC SYSTEM
News Republishing Site Closes Following Inquries from Various UC Student Journalists
UC Campus News had been republishing student content from all campuses without permission since its founding in February of 2019.
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Beware the ghost of the finger.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
voting isover easy!
crackin ’  lets get’
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for AS Election 2019 informationHDH: These Rent Increases Are Necessary to Offset the Costs for Future Residential Developments, Accomodate Incoming Students
▶ PROTEST , from page 1
“Graduate students are not asking 
for no rent increase [whatsoever], ” 
Y anchulova Merica-Jones explained to 
the Guardian. “We are asking for data 
to show that we understand why these 
rent increases are inevitable. ” 
Sven Brueggemann, a graduate 
student and the leader of a similar march for housing affordability on 
February 19, was critical of the UCSD 
administration’s overall attitudes and 
policies towards student housing.
“The structure of [the] UCSD 
administration set up for housing, and 
their policy, isn’t for affordable housing, but rather to facilitate [continued] 
UCSD expansion, ” Brueggemann told 
the Guardian. 
Y anchulova Merica-Jones urged her 
fellow students to join the campaign’s 
efforts for a rent-freeze and called 
for them to speak up and voice their 
concerns. At the time of publication, 
a rent-freeze petition has reached over 
500 signatures, and more than 150 
emails have been sent to UCSD, HDH, 
and ARCHAC.
In a statement provided to the 
Guardian, HDH defended its decision 
to increase rental rates, arguing that it has “spent a significant amount 
of time” meeting with ARCHAC to 
discuss the 2019-2020 housing rates. 
HDH also applauded ARCHAC’s work 
and the feedback it received from the 
committee.
“Setting rates correctly to 
adequately cover mortgages associated with our properties will allow HDH 
to provide more on-campus graduate 
and family housing, benefiting more 
students for years to come, ” the 
statement said. “There are currently 
more than 2,500 graduate students on 
the waitlist for on-campus housing, and this number is projected to grow. 
Today, only 37 percent of our graduate 
students live on campus. ”
HDH noted its own efforts to 
increase the number of graduate 
students who are able to live on 
campus. 
“By 2020, as part of UCSD’s Long 
Range Development Plan, the campus plans to increase that number to 50 
percent of graduate students, allowing 
more students to take advantage of the 
campus’ below-market rental rates, ” 
the statement added. 
Hosam Y ousif, a graduate student and one of the activist leaders of the 
housing campaign, spoke at a meeting 
with the Associated Student Council on 
April 3. No further immediate protests 
have been planned, but members of 
the housing campaign plan to continue 
to inform both graduate housing 
residents and undergraduate students 
of HDH’s decision to raise graduate 
housing rental rates for the upcoming 
year. 
Troy Tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.edu
Clinton Has Recently Been at the Center of  a Controvery after Her Remarks on Rep. Ilhan Omar were Perceived as Islamophobic 
▶ CLINTON  , from page 1
she is a major advocate for global health issues as a board member of 
the Clinton Health Access Initiative, 
promoting access to AIDS medication.
In March, Clinton was confronted 
by student activists at a vigil for the 
New Zealand Mosque Massacre. 
She was criticized for her response 
to a comment made by Rep. Ilhan 
Omar that was taken by some to be 
anti-Semitic. Clinton’s response was 
considered by the students activists to stir hatred of Muslims. In the video of 
the confrontation,  the student accused 
Clinton that “This [the vigil], right here, is a result of a massacre stoked by 
people like you and the words that you 
put out into the world. ”  
She responded with disagreement 
to a comment made by Rep. Ilhan 
Omar, which was taken by some to be 
anti-Semitic. However, the response 
was considered by the students activists 
to stir hatred of Muslims. 
Clinton is the author of two 
children’s books: She Persisted: 13 
American Women Who Changed the World, and She Persisted Around 
the World: 13 Women Who Changed 
History. In each book, Clinton introduces 13 inspiring female figures 
to her younger readers. 
Clinton quoted Ride on BBC Radio 
4-Woman’s Hours saying, “it’s hard 
to imagine what we can’t see. ” To this 
point, Clinton said one of the reasons 
why she was passionate about sharing 
the stories of these inspiring female 
figures is “to encourage more girls to 
imagine themselves as astronauts or 
authors, activists, civil rights leaders, 
scientists, explorers, and more. ”
The two other distinguished guests 
invited to the May 22 panel are Sylvia 
Acevedo and Jedidah Isler. Acevedo is a notable rocket scientist and business 
leader. Committed as a life-long girl 
scout, Acevedo was appointed as the 
CEO of Girl Scouts of the USA in 
2017. Since she assumed the position, 
Avecedo has endorsed girl leadership 
programs and made efforts to prepare 
girls with the capabilities to make 
changes. 
The other featured panelist, Jedidah 
Isler, is an assistant professor of Physics 
and Astronomy at Dartmouth College. As the first African American woman 
to receive a Ph.D. in Astrophysics from 
Y ale University, Isler actively advocates for inclusion and empowerment 
in STEM education. She founded 
the STEM en Route to Change 
Foundation, an organization that helps 
marginalized minorities in STEM to 
pursue their passion. 
The Women in Leadership panel 
will be held in West Ballroom of Price 
Center at UC San Diego from 6:30-
8:30 p.m. on May 22. Admission is 
free but requires a registration through 
Sally Ride Science’s official website. 
yiy288@ucsd.edu & astaggem@ucsd.edu
The Five-Y ear Contracts Address Widespread Concerns About Academic Freedom, Sick Leave and Other Major Employee Benefits
▶ LIBRARIANS  , from page 1
year after. UC-AFT has negotiated 
with UC Office of the President for PD allocation on a per capita basis.
UC-AFT also proposed an 
academic freedom protection in the MOU, which was previously denied 
by UCOP . Under the pressure of union activism and public backlash, UCOP 
started a policy-making process to address academic freedom, which 
would give all academic appointees, 
including non-faculty academics, certain protections and the right to 
inquiry in their teaching and research.There is a mandatory 90-day 
review period after the policy released 
this week to ensure it is done properly, 
and the opportunity to change the 
academic freedom policy will remain for a month after the policy actually 
goes into place.Other modifications accomplished 
in the new contract include an earlier 
notification of job duty for transfers 
and reassigned staff, up to 30 days of 
accrued sick leave for baby bonding after childbearing or child adoption, 
and a more open staff evaluation and review.
The new contract is active on April 
1 and will stay valid until March 2024.  
Zhuoying Lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
Academic dishonesty, often simply referred to as cheating by UC San Diego, 
encompasses academically prohibited practices such as cheating, plagiarism, 
fabrication, collusion, academic misconduct, conspiracy, and misrepresentation.  
It is, unfortunately, a mainstay in academic life, and UCSD is no exception. In a recent survey by the UCSD Guardian, 99 percent of undergraduate students said that they had seen or had firsthand knowledge of students committing multiple kinds of academic dishonesty. 
Academic research on the number of undergraduate students that self-report cheating 
hovers between 60 and 80 percent depending on the study. Yet, some professors still 
introduce policies in their classrooms that make it easier for students to cheat undetected. 
These policies harm the students who do not cheat, including honest students that go on 
to careers and postgraduate education such as graduate school, law school, and medical school among others, where GPA matters. Professors who choose to forgo generally 
accepted practices that stymie academic integrity violations should change their practices. 
A sense of trust is not enough. 
Some studies, such as a study done by Fordham 
University, suggest that students who cheat have 
significantly higher GPAs. This seems like an 
unsurprising benefit of being given the correct 
answers, not having to do the proper work and 
therefore having time for other things, etc. Overall, 
if cheaters do have higher GPAs, the negative 
impact on postgraduate admissions, students’ 
confidence in their own abilities, the trust and 
support of the institution, and other GPA-related 
opportunities is deeply troubling. 
Alternatively, some people may argue that 
if cheaters do not actually have higher GPAs, or 
if most students in their classes do not pursue a future where their GPAs matter, then 
academically dishonest behavior doesn’t harm other students. This perspective fails to 
recognize the effort of honest students and the power of the GPA to create opportunities. 
Regardless of the impact on GPA, the possibility that some students might get a leg 
up through academic integrity violations should be enough to halt overly cheater-
friendly exam and class structures. Additionally, for those students who are pursuing 
further education, a few GPA points can matter greatly, especially now that postgraduate 
education has become the new norm. 
Academic dishonesty in universities does not occur on a small scale. However, last 
year at UCSD only about 2.67 percent of undergraduates were accused of academic 
dishonesty. According to a U.K. study’s background research, these numbers are on par 
with the average 2 percent accusation rate of many other universities. On the other hand, 
studies such as those done by Professor Donald McCabe suggests that about 66 percent 
of undergraduates violate academic integrity principles. At UCSD, this would mean that 
19,058 undergraduates in 2017-2018 likely violated campus’ academic integrity policy. 
Human nature may partially explain why individuals cheat and sheds light on ways 
UCSD professors inadvertently make cheating easier. Numerous studies, such as a 2009 study in the Journal of Business Ethics, show that people are more likely to lie or act dishonestly if they do not think they will get caught. Hence, professors who choose 
to look find that academic integrity violations are unlikely to be revealed to them and 
even more likely occur in circumstances where professors have the least likelyhood of 
finding out. For example, in our Guardian survey, nearly 50 percent said they’d seen other students asking to work or working together on, exams and other assignments that were supposed to be done independently. 
If a UCSD professor has a loose policy with how they monitor integrity, they may be 
hoping to create a class culture of academic morality and honesty by trusting their students. 
However, studies such as a 2017 study from the academic Journal Theory into Practice 
have cast doubt on the success of this honor code policy over other methods. According to 
this study, the perception that one’s peers are cheating is a stronger predictor of cheating than the presence of an honor code. Hence, a policy that assumes students will do the 
right thing makes it easier for students to avoid detection, such as an essay not checked 
on Turnitin. This, in turn, encourages cheating. While the verdict remains unclear about 
what actually deters academic dishonesty, professors should err on the side of caution. 
Obviously, however, cheating results from a 
complex concoction of culture, success, opportunity, 
and expectations among other factors. It is unlikely 
that academic dishonesty will ever be completely 
eradicated. Does this mean that there’s no point 
in professors putting in extra effort to halt policies 
that easily invite academically dishonest behavior? 
Absolutely not. Take an issue like systemic poverty. 
Systemic poverty, like academic dishonesty, will 
likely never be completely eradicated. However, it 
would be deeply concerning to say that efforts to 
reduce the effects of either are not worthwhile to the populations these issues affect. 
Additionally, psychological research shows that most people act dishonestly under 
fortuitous circumstances. People don’t normally cheat because they are bad people who will lie and cheat under any and all circumstances. Hence, while some people will always 
try to game the system due to differences in morality, culture, expectations, risk, biology, 
and other unclear factors, professors can at least make it more difficult for this to take 
place. This would not only benefit those who are honest but also help keep students 
suffering from excess stress, responsibility, and other factors that seem to increase 
academic dishonesty from committing an integrity violation in the first place. 
Professors should do more to reduce their obvious invitations of academic dishonesty, 
such as not having closed-note take-home exams, actually enforcing exam start and end 
times, using Turnitin,  and changing their homework policies. Instead of merely trusting 
students to “do the right thing,” professors who have extreme trust in their students with 
regard to such policies should take a second look. While it is disheartening that students 
act dishonestly, professors ought to remember that academic dishonesty doesn’t just hurt 
those who commit it and that at the end of the day, the pledge, and its promise to students, 
is only as real as they make it.Trust and Dishonesty: Lax Academic Integrity Policies Lets 
Students Freely Cheat the System 
By Geena Roberts    staff writer
“...cheating results from a complex 
concoction of culture, success, opportunity, 
and expectations among other factors. It is 
unlikely that academic dishonesty will ever 
be completely eradicated.”
A Journalism Minor Would Make a Newsworthy Addition to UCSD
By Jacob sutherland     Senior Staff Writer
With the rise of online publications like Buzzfeed and a presidential administration 
working to undermine the integrity of the profession, journalism has become a practice 
that is under an increasing level of scrutiny. However, the change in the way that society interacts with news media has created an increase in a desire to be a news reporter. Whether it be starting a blog or working at a local online news organization, many average people have taken it upon themselves to become citizen journalists. 
Universities have responded to this increase in interest by either expanding upon or 
creating new journalism programs. One school that has failed to address this interest has been UC San Diego. Considering that the existing infrastructure to gain journalistic knowledge at UCSD is at best lacking, UCSD should implement a journalism minor to allow students the opportunity to participate in the newsmaking process.
To their credit, UCSD currently o ffers several journalism related courses spread 
across two separate departments. In the Communication department, upper-division courses in American News Media, News Media Workshop, and Writing for Digital Media are all o ffered. Likewise, the Literature department o ffers Writing Nonfiction as 
a lower-division course and Media Writing Workshop as an upper-division elective. While these classes o ffer quite a bit for prospective students, being mostly upper division 
requires students either to jump through the hurdles of getting departmental approval for an individual course or to take many lower division prerequisites. 
Both of these departments do o ffer minors, but their utility for students interested 
in journalism is limited. However, the structure of the Communication and Literature-Writing minors combined with the limited number of journalism related courses require students interested in journalism to take several courses unrelated to the field while having to cross their fingers in the hope that the journalism-centric courses will be offered during their time as an undergrad.
While implementing an entirely new minor may appear difficult, several universities 
offer journalism minors that UCSD could model their program a fter. Th e UC Berkeley 
offers a summer journalism minor. Th e program requires students to take two core 
courses focusing on both news writing at large and multimedia, as well as three elective courses from a list including Social Media, Investigative Reporting, and Th e Future 
See JOURNALISM, page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
GOOD MORNING   
By System 32
Jacob Sutherland   jasuther@ucsd.edu▶ JOURNALISM , from page 4
of Visual Storytelling. Conversely, San Francisco State University 
offers a more traditional minor in journalism; students are required 
to take fi ve courses giving a broad overview of every major facet of 
journalism, as well as two other electives. 
While both UC Berkeley and SFSU have preexisting journalism 
major departments, there is a precedent at UCSD for minors existing 
without a major department. Th urgood Marshall, Eleanor Roosevelt, 
and Earl Warren College each o ffer several minors. Likewise, a 
handful of major departments o ffer minors that do not have a direct 
link to an existing major, like the Speculative Design minor in the Visual Arts department or the Science, Technology, and Society minor in the Science Studies department. Finally, other minors like California Cultures in Comparative Perspective exist at UCSD without either a college or major sponsor.
Opponents to a UCSD journalism minor may argue that there is a 
lack of both financial and people resources for implementing such a program. However, there would be no need to hire any new professors to run such a minor. Professors like Daniel Hallin and Andrew Kleske are current UCSD faculty members who have highly accomplished backgrounds in journalism. Both of them, along with several other professors, already teach the currently o ffered journalism courses. 
UCSD could limit any budget increases by utilizing current faculty with strong backgrounds in journalism.
By implementing a journalism minor, UCSD would not only 
address the current vacuum of journalism opportunities, but it would also continue to be a leader in teaching students how to “break things better. ” What other universities have recognized is that, despite current societal trends, when journalism is presented in an adaptable manner, it serves as a tool for communicating knowledge in an ever changing world. Regardless of major, the skills covered in a journalism minor would prove invaluable to every UCSD student.
Have a good week two - Start the QUarter strong6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , ARPIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
GUARDIAN EDITORIAL BOARD
editor@ucsdguardian.org
The endorsements below were decided by consensus of the UC San Diego Guardian Editorial Board, which contains the Editor-
in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, and Opinion Editor. Members of the Editorial Board conducted individual interviews 
with candidates from each of  the two slates, Fresh Start and Tritons United. The interviews assessed the candidates on three 
criteria: the utility and specificity of their platform, their level of preparedness, and their commitment to facilitate a dialogue with students. If no candidate running for a position met our standards, then no endorsement was given for that position, and any interviewed candidate not shown here did not receive the Guardian’s endorsement. 
It will become clear to anyone reading these endorsements that the Editorial Board more often than not decided to endorse 
candidates from the Fresh Start slate for each position. The Tritons United slate is full of bright students with well-intentioned 
goals, but many had the same issue the Guardian Editorial Board has seen in many candidates over the years. They are able to 
identify issues that students across campus face, but they lack either systemic solutions to these problems or the institutional knowledge to achieve their goals in such short terms. Members of the Fresh Start slate themselves acknowledged the lofty aspirations that people bring with them into Associated Students, so many set out to find concrete solutions to achievable goals. Especially among their executives, the Fresh Start slate displayed a level of experience and preparedness that some on the Tritons United slate sorely needed. 
The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board thanks all candidates for their commitment to the university and wishes those who win in 
the coming elections all the best in improving the campus. The work done by Associated Student Council often goes unnoticed, despite their massive budget and influence over policy, but they are the students’ lifeline for effecting change on campus. For the sake of the students that come after us, we hope that next year’s Associated Students Council will see a time of unprecedented productivity and commitment. We believe these endorsements are the first step to that end. 
 Students can vote online on Tritonlink from April 8th to April 12th.
- 
Guardian Editorial BoardA.S. ELECTION ENDORSEMENTS
Eleanor
Grudin
Melina
ReynosoA.S.  President
V.P. Campus AffairsThe presidential candidate of any slate 
is its head; that person should embody the goals and ideals set out by the slate. 
This is the case for Eleanor Grudin. Her slate, Fresh Start, runs on three main principles: accessibility, accountability, representation. Eleanor has a solid hold on the strengths and weaknesses of the current administration and has tailored her party platform to address them. Like several members of her slate, she has the experience to accurately identify the problems facing students and a definitive plan to address them. 
She aims to increase accessibility to 
Associated Student Council by actively building relationships with organizations and communities on campus. To that end, she will attend student organization meetings and invite people from affected communities into Associated Students’ own meetings. Accountability for her means ensuring the administration acknowledges the needs of students, but it also means ensuring that Associated Student Council itself is accurately reflecting the needs and desires students have. Her concept of accountability is not a self-serving, one-way street but a dialogue. Representation relies on sufficient training and selective appointment of positions in A.S. committees. Rather than assigning roles in committees based on scheduling concerns, Eleanor has expressed her commitment to connecting affected community members with the committees that concern them and to training appointees to take on the role of an advocate for student needs. Her platform and experience give the Guardian Editorial Board full faith in endorsing her as the next President of the Associated Student Council. 
The role of the Vice President of Campus Affairs is to refine the ways that Associated Students creates policy and 
programs. They should seek to streamline the legislative process, improve communication with students, and ensure council members are accountable to students. To this end, Melina Reynoso is more than competent. Her platform finds its foundation in outreach, which is a refreshing change of pace for student government on this campus. More importantly though, she comes with a level of preparedness that sets her apart from 
Many candidates throughout the years have 
run on improving accessibility to A.S. but few come with such a detailed plan for how to reach this goal. Melina Reynoso’s platform is all in the details. She is currently in the process of rewriting the Associated Students standing rules to mandate outreach, and she aims to provide students with alternative ways to relay needs and demands. Another key part of her platform is ensuring that those who sit on committees are chosen from the communities that those committees are meant to represent and that those people are thoroughly trained on the issues they seek to combat. Students are at the heart and soul of her platform, and for that reason, Melina Reynoso receives the Guardian Editorial Board’s full confidence.
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , ARPIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
DAVID 
hickman
Kaitl yn
Willoughby
Ethan
ChristensenCampus-wide senator
Campus-Wide Senator
Off-campus senatorRunning with the Fresh Start slate 
and focusing on transparency and accountability in student government, 
David Hickman is running for re-election in the Campus-Wide senator position with the experience necessary to make change. Hickman’s focus is directly attached to the inner workings of Associated Student Council, with the larger goal of increasing student knowledge and involvement in the institution, 
as well as eliminating the systemic problems 
with the A.S. bureaucracy.
On the matter of transparency, he specifically 
cited the lack of information being given to the student body regarding budgetary measures. He plans to continue his engagement with the student body by hosting office hours in places that are easily accessible, and in these disseminating information on the actual work that A.S. is doing. He also wants to target the discrepancies in work-loads and the structural problems within the institution, in order to ensure a better student government.
He is a very strong believer in his slate’s 
platform and he will continue his work in ensuring that the student government answers to the student body. His priorities line-up with the overarching theme of Fresh Start to repair the trust between the student body and A.S. and we believe his re-election would only 
benefit the campus community.
Kaitlyn Willoughby is a well-rounded and 
motivated candidate for the Campus-Wide senator position running on the 
Fresh Start slate. Following in the footsteps of her slate, Willoughby is dedicated to fixing the lack of participation and trust in A.S. Council. Along with that overarching goal, she is determined to improve both quality and access to the mental health services provided on campus, as well as awareness of climate change and environmental issues.
For Kaitlyn, mental health resources are 
woefully impacted, citing problems with appointment scheduling and with physical access due to an overpopulated campus. Her goal is to expand the reach and the capacity of mental health resources on campus, and to make a concerted effort to destigmatize these issues on a campus-wide scale. She also plans to advocate for these programs within the many A.S. committees, ensuring that the issue is a part of the conversation during her entire tenure. Regarding environmental concerns, she plans to increase the literature and exposure that students receive to materials regarding climate change and environmental shifts.
Along with the rest of her slate, Willoughby 
plans to make sure that student government is at the reach of the student body. One of the reasons for the complete lack of student interest, in her opinion, is the outlandish and unrealistic goals set forth by candidates every year. She believes in establishing realistic and achievable goals for the future of A.S., increasing the likelihood of obtaining results that last and that work to the benefit of the entire student body.
Running with the Fresh Start slate and focusing on transparency and accountability in student government, 
Ethan Christiansen is running for re-election in the Off-Campus senator position with the experience necessary to make change. Christiansen’s focus is to focus on the core of the problems with the off-campus experience, trying to simplify commuter life as much as possible.  
He broke down the commuter experience 
to three core points, the ability to come onto campus, the accessibility of campus resources to off-campus students, and housing insecurity. Regarding parking, he plans to increase accessibility to current parking lots for commuters by implementing commuter-specific spots. In the matter of campus resources, his focus is to increase the accessibility of CAPS for off-campus students, both through online resources and by expanding the physical access to the CAPS offices. He also plans to continue his work in housing and in this regard he plans to expand the network of resources he utilizes, ensuring that maximized his opportunities to exact real change
He speaks very strongly in favor of his 
slate’s platform, and very specifically wants to increase the reach of A.S. ’s relationship with the student body, particularly with commuter students. He wants to ensure that there is equal representation in student government as well as a higher level of accountability. In his eyes, accountability goes from the student body, to A.S. and from A.S. to the administration.
make  sure  to  vote!
VOTE ON TRITONLINK, APRIL 8-12
A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
EARN A MASTER’S IN 
BUSINESS ANALYTICS IN 
10 months.
APPLY BY MAY 1As Winter Quarter came to a close, 
Eleanor Roosevelt College put on its 
annual Rock’N Roosevelt concert. 
The event is known for featuring a spectrum of artists, from upcoming local indie rock acts 
to the more established and nationally known 
acts headlining the event. Previously, ERC 
has brought on the likes of groups such as 
Bad Suns, The Mowgli’s, and Saint Motel. The 
college once again did not disappoint in 2019, 
bringing forward COIN, the Nashville-based 
indie rock group with hit songs “Talk Too 
Much” and “I Don’t Wanna Dance. ” 
 The event started at 8 p.m., but that 
did not stop die-hard fans from forming lines 
as early as 5:30 p.m. Excitement was in the air 
as fans entered Price Center Ballroom West and quickly ran for the front barricade to ensure a prime view of their favorite bands. 
Starting off the night was Silent Island, 
a band composed entirely of UC San Diego 
students with a surf-rock style. The most 
notable aspect of the band was by far the 
charisma of its frontman, Nico. It was 
impossible not to recognize him, as adoring 
fans throughout the crowd echoed his name 
every chance they got, making sure that their 
love and support for the current Thurgood 
Marshall College resident assistant, and 
apparent indie rock heartthrob, was on full 
display. 
Using extremely different pacing 
throughout its tracks, Silent Island played a few smooth pop-based songs and got the crowd moving with a more up-tempo alt-
styled track, prompting the crowd to “go ham 
if [they] want. ” In its entirety, Silent Island did 
a commendable job setting the night up with 
a welcoming and wholesome set. 
Following the performance of Silent 
Island was Moontower. Moontower featured 
tracks with a bit more of a pop and hip-hop influence, and it had an interesting set 
design with four light beams in the formation 
of an “M. ” Once again, the group quickly 
established a connection with the crowd, 
bantering about previous performances on 
the UCSD campus, small backyard shows, and 
the initial formation of the band at the school. 
 Once again, the group delivered 
a stellar performance, primarily due to the energy it laid out on the stage. Whether it 
was venturing to the edge of the stage and 
standing on the amps, or directly placing 
himself in the crowd, Chase Lawrence, the 
group’s frontman, stole the show and featured 
a level of star power that could one day fill 
arenas. The delivery of each line and ability 
to control the crowd was impressive coming 
from a group that was not even the night’s 
headlining event. With so much movement 
and interaction, the set seemed to zoom by, 
which ultimately left the crowd ready for the 
main event.
 Finally, around 9 p.m., the indie 
rock stars were on the stage and immediately got into their set. There was no conversation 
to start the performance; it immediately 
kicked off, and the crowd did not seem to 
mind in the slightest. Lawrence, the band’s 
lead singer and pianist, had a sort of charm 
that made it obvious as to where the band 
finds its success and virality. Walking out in a 
droopy cardigan and a sense of bedroom-pop 
relatability, Lawrence completely lived up to 
the hype following the band. His vocals were 
vastly impressive and all done with enough motion to power a small village. Whether it was headbanging or jumping, Lawrence and 
his bandmates captivated the crowd with each 
song and action.
 However, Lawrence offered much 
more than his vocals; his ability to interact with 
the crowd was truly fun to observe. At times 
the COIN frontman entered the crowd and allowed himself to be a part of the festivities 
in the first few rows. Adoring fans called close 
friends through FaceTime to show them the 
performance, and naturally, Lawrence took a 
cell phone and directly serenaded a lucky girl 
on a FaceTime call, much to the enjoyment of 
the crowd. 
 The highlights of the performance 
were when the group performed its hit song “Talk Too Much” and track “Hannah. ” The 
crowd seemed to know just about every word, 
and almost everyone  exited a bigger fan of 
COIN than they were when they walked in. 
As the performance came to a close, 
Lawrence shared a wholesome story about performing on the UCSD campus years ago 
to a crowd of about seven, and explained how 
much it meant to him to be here again to a 
ballroom full of fans. The set as a whole was not 
only impressive but also extremely touching, 
making for a great conclusion to the annual 
Rock’N Roosevelt and a great introduction to 
Finals Week. As a whole, the staff of Rock’N 
Roosevelt impressed by presenting a diverse 
set of groups and a wonderful headliner; all 
of this resulting in another successful year for 
the event and hopeful anticipation for what 
2020 has in store. 
  
—  Matthew Rudas
Senior Staff WriterCOIN continues Rock N’ Roosevelt’s long line of indie power 
acts, bringing their own brand of energetic, synth-pop to UC San Diego, supported by Moontower and student band Silent Island.
EVENT   REVIEW
Location  Price Center Ballroom West
Concert Date   March 8, 2019ROCk'N  Roosevel t 2019:  COINPHOTO COURTESY OF MCKENNA JOHNSON
CA-A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Use your phone as your 
mobile ticket to ride. 
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
Moving to my own rhythm.
Student fees provide 
unlimited rides for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.  
Current registration/enrollment 
and valid @ucsd.edu email address required to activate account.Your Spring Quarter U-Pass is 
valid through June 30, 2019
Download the 
Compass Cloud App and check for updates.Head-to-Head: Billie Eilish
In late March, Billie Eilish, the vocally-gifted alternative prodigy, delivered her highly 
anticipated debut album, “WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP , WHERE DO WE GO?” The 
album brought forward great praise, but it also revealed a noticeable group of individuals 
who are not huge fans of the recent success of the 17-year-old songstress. 
 From top to bottom, the recent debut album showcases Eilish’s undoubtedly angelic 
vocals and dynamic versatility. On tracks such as “bad guy, ” Eilish is able to display her ability 
to deliver lyrics in a staccato and nearly spoken-word chorus. She delivers eerie yet lovely vocals 
with a bass-infused, trap-like production. As a stand-alone track, “bad guy” is the epitome of 
Billie Eilish and the polarizing opinions she inspires. In a few minutes, one can hear so much 
potential and talent, while others choose to find discomfort in her lyrical decisions, obvious 
teenage angst, and rebellious tendencies. 
 What is most impressive about Eilish is how quickly she is able to establish the tone of 
a track. On the track “xanny, ” Eilish completely takes over and delivers a gorgeous ballad with heavy distortion and bass coming in and out of the track. Each song speaks to a different area of expertise, and the production continues to impress with each transition and soft melody grazing 
the track’s background. 
 It is not outlandish to argue that Eilish and her team are revolutionizing the alternative 
genre. She is doing what every alternative star before her has attempted and failed to do by creating a sound that is vastly unique. Despite her similarities to the likes of Lorde, Lana Del Rey, 
and other alternative stars who have risen to stardom in recent years, Eilish’s ability to supersede genre is unparalleled. Eilish’s discography is a massive melting pot of alternative, hip hop, and 
pop music that results in music that many only dream of one day constructing.
 The sampling on her most recent album once again dives into unknown waters and 
makes the album all the more enjoyable. With various studio audience “awws” and direct samples from the hit show “The Office, ” Eilish playfully mocks her own despair, which is witty, self-aware, 
and a risk that more artists should be taking. Despite being one of the biggest names in modern music, the young pop star refuses to take herself too seriously. In an industry where profits and 
streaming numbers are frequently discussed, the ability to not be too serious can be crucial. 
Apart from her music itself, Eilish has done a commendable job of crafting a persona that 
simply allows her to be herself. Whether one loves or hates Eilish, her nonchalant, angsty, yet somehow charming personality is undeniably appealing. This very persona has caused masses of 
fans to fall in love with the character of Billie Eilish even more so than her music. Because of this, Billie Eilish is set to continue to rule the music industry for years to come, draped in oversized 
Balenciaga t-shirts, regardless of what anyone has to say about it.
 
—  Matthew Rudas
Senior Staff WriterIf you ask any teen who Billie Eilish is, there will typically be two answers — either she’s 
completely revolutionizing the pop genre as we see it, or she’s terribly overhyped and likes to 
show off her boogers.
After dominating the pop world and conversation with the SoundCloud hit “ocean eyes” in 
2016, Eilish has finally released her debut album, “WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP , WHERE DO WE GO?” three years later. While the young 17-year-old star certainly has her own flair, it’s not 
necessarily anything different than what has been done before. She’s an amalgamation of the female 
pop singers before her, as demonstrated by the tracks on her previous EP “dont smile at me. ” The 
dreamy, longing wistfulness of Lana Del Rey heard in “ocean eyes” and the deceptive darkness under 
the sweet, angelic vocals in “bellyache” reminiscent of Melanie Martinez catapulted Eilish to the top 
of the charts and popularity in the dark pop genre.
However, Eilish just barely misses the mark with her debut. In comparison to her earlier works, 
something feels strangely off; Eilish still has a lot to prove before she can move beyond the analogies to established pop vocalists and become her own point of comparison. Now, this isn’t to say that Eilish lacks talent, as she certainly has a distinct sound.
The clear star of “WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP , WHERE DO WE GO?” is “you should 
see me in a crown, ” which showcases the best of Eilish. Powerfully sinister and nearly edging on otherworldly, “you should see me in a crown” accomplishes and conveys more in a mere three 
minutes than what the entire album could’ve hoped to achieve in 42 minutes. Starting with the 
sound of sharpening knives, the lead single features eerie, whispery vocals before plunging into a dark, buzzing synth as Eilish croons about world domination. 
As a glimpse into Eilish’s musical persona, s--- slaps. But a good track or two doesn’t save the 
album as a whole, especially considering the way the album begins with “bad guy. ”
“bad guy” is less on the haunting, chilling side and more on the spooky side. It’s easily the most 
poppy track, with a snappy rhythm and electronic beat you would find the Scooby Gang running behind. Strangely upbeat, Eilish taunts and taunts throughout while claiming herself as “the bad guy, ” with the lyrics coming in robotic and warped. However, this doesn’t produce the sinister effect 
as it should — the line lags, and with it, the chilling effect wanes until all that’s left is just confusion.
Moreover, Eilish teasing that she’s the “might seduce your dad type” is enough to elicit a pause all 
on its own, considering this is coming from a 17-year-old girl.
“wish you were gay” could’ve been another highlight of the album for showcasing Eilish’s vocals 
against a softer, airier backdrop than the deeply grating bass found throughout the album. However, 
it plays like a 2019 version of Katy Perry’s “Ur So Gay, ” which certainly does not require a reboot.
For an album that succeeds in producing a ghostly and sometimes even bizarre tone, listen to 
Charli XCX’s “Pop 2. ” Captivated by Eilish’s brooding, slightly gothic aura? Go back to her clear pop predecessor, Lorde. When Eilish can fully separate herself from the alt-pop stars before her and 
return with an album that successfully plays off her strong suits, then perhaps she can be credited 
with revolutionizing the scene. Until then, Eilish needs to fully focus on a persona and hone in on her own sound to truly separate herself from the rest of the pop pack.
— Jahfreen Alam
Associate A&E EditorTwo Arts & Entertainment Guardian Writers duel it out to answer the age-old question: is Billie Eilish actually good?
SHE SLAPS SHE SUCKS10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Visit us at www.storem.com Check our sizes, prices & locations9 Easy Access
Locations Near you!
• Access 365 Days a Year
• Month to Month Leasing• Convenient Ways to Pay• Drive Up Access Units Available• Digital Video Recording• Computerized Access Codes• Military, Senior & Student 
DiscountsactiveActive
Police & Firefighters
10%OFF
New move-ins, active ID required.
BOXES & 
MOVING 
SUPPLIESSELFST ORAGE
ASSOCIA TION
MEMBER
Low Cost Insurance Available(619)298-3023Old Town • Point Loma • Ocean Beach
4800 Pacific Hwy., San Diego
2776 Main St., Chula Vista 2385 Main St., Chula Vista4595 Mission Bay Dr., San Diego(858)273-1717Pacific Beach • Clairemont • La Jolla
(619)575-0119Chula Vista • Eastlake • San Ysidro
(619)423-8854Imperial Beach • Chula Vista
325 Trousdale Dr., Chula Vista 2430 S. Santa Fe Ave., Vista(619)426-2666National City • Eastlake • Chula Vista
(760)727-3470Vista
1510 E. Mission Rd., San Marcos 185 N. Pacific St., San Marcos(760)743-4076Escondido
560 S. Pacific St., San Marcos(760)471-2691Carlsbad(760)471-0133San Marcos
“The Island of Sea Women” 
by Lisa See is a historical fiction novel that explores the 
life of Young-sook, now an old woman peacefully collecting seaweed on a rocky beach. However, when she is approached by a Korean-American family, Young-sook is forced to reflect upon her youth and the horrors of the Jeju revolts of World War II. The novel is written as a dual-narrative, alternating between the first-person details of her remarkable life as a young fishing diver in 1938 and the third-person account of her interaction with this strangely familiar family in 2008. 
“The Island of Sea Women” tells the 
heartbreaking story of Y oung-Sook’s life and relationships, focusing especially on her deep friendship with her best friend Mi-ja as they train to work as haenyeo, the strong female divers and breadwinners of Jeju Island. They grow up side by side, caring for one another through every hardship, all the while collecting sea creatures in their nets to sell. Their skill and mastery of this dangerous craft flourish as their friendship grows stronger. However, as the girls grow older, traditional obligations and political upheaval make it impossible to remain together. Even so, the two maintain the closeness of sisters, until disaster strikes the island and a betrayal mars their bond forever.
The novel’s narrative is exceptionally 
well-wrought with complex themes of 
loss and forgiveness, culminating in the 
collection of visceral emotion in the face of impossible situations. There is no need for fancy mechanics or flowery language in See’s writing. Simple and personal prose allows readers to see themselves in Y oung-sook’s straw shoes, feeling every ounce of pain and exhilaration as she does. We feel her ambition, her relief, her love, and her hatred. Like Young-sook, each character is deeply flawed and given room to grow throughout the novel, persuading audiences to imagine them as the real people upon which the novel is based. 
Lisa See, like the waves of the ocean, 
lulls readers into a state of hypnotic ease as she teaches them the ways of Young-sook’s matriarchal home town. She is a master of portraying the intricate details of life on the island, describing Jeju with such 
precision that readers find themselves 
fully immersed in Young-sook’s world. Perhaps even more astounding is the skill with which See encourages readers to forge deep emotional investments in each character, breaking readers’ hearts and urging tears with each shocking turn of events. “The Island of Sea Women” is decidedly triumphant in portraying a harrowing story that both educates and entertains, ensuring that it will remain in the hearts and minds of readers long after they have left the island.
—  Laura Hatanaka
Senior Staff WriterThe  Island   of  Sea  Women
by  LISA   SEEBOOK   REVIEW
ALisa See’ s new novel, “ The Island of Sea W omen, ” whisks audiences 
away to the salty shores of Jeju Island, South Korea in this tender and 
tragic work of historical fiction.
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
No, I haven’t suddenly become a BuzzFeed video producer with this article title.
Over this past spring break, I did a lot of what I do best: nothing. I mean, who doesn’t love some good 
ol’ fashioned stationary activity? While some people went on vacation to live their best lives, I simply 
stayed wedged between my sofa cushions, unwilling to traverse the treacherous waters of my living room. And, as one does when presented with such an opportunity to laze around, I spent plenty of time browsing 
my phone. A lot of time, to be more specific. I became one of those millennials that middle-aged adults 
complain about, the ones who get into accidents because they were too busy staring at their phones when walking. This was the one saving grace of my spring break hibernation; no matter how much time I spent browsing social media, at least I wasn’t getting into any car wrecks! But, quite frankly, I was aware (in my 
hazy, couch-potato mind) that my behavior was becoming a bit ridiculous.
I didn’t decide to make a change until a conveniently placed spark of inspiration came my way in the 
form of a YouTube video. Whenever I want a daily dose of news, I watch Philip DeFranco’s informative 
videos. But, on one particular day, DeFranco talked about much more than the world’s current events. While doing his Friday show, he explained how he had deleted his social media apps from his phone and 
that he felt much less anxiety as a result. This got me thinking about my iPhone’s Screen Time feature, and 
how often I had ignored my stats in the past. How many of those hours that I had spent on social media could potentially improve my quality of life? I didn’t need anyone else to tell me that the answer to that question was probably “zero. ” With renewed resolve, I deleted every social networking app on my phone 
except for Netflix and Facebook Messenger (hey, a girl needs to stay in contact!).
Now, if I wanted to waste hours browsing the Internet, I would need to use my laptop instead. I felt 
that being forced to use a computer would bring forth a sense of accountability, so I purged my phone 
without fear. Unfortunately, my laptop’s motherboard decided to go on strike, causing the device to break down in my hour of need. Talk about timing.
Despite feeling such conviction just a few days earlier, I now had one fewer resource to get online. How 
could a laptopless, bored college student on spring break hope to cope? If I was ever awake in the middle of the night, how could I lull my mind to sleep if I didn’t have Tumblr to browse? Even if I had a legitimate reason to access the Internet (such as checking my grades), I needed to either mooch computer time off a 
family member or crack open the cell phone I was trying to hard to avoid using. Needless to say, this life 
event threw a bit of a wrench into my plans.
In the end, I decided to redownload Facebook for the sake of communication, as well as YouTube, 
Twitter, and Tumblr. Because these apps were the ones that used up most of my time, I couldn’t help but feel like I’ d failed my own challenge before it even began. Sure, I could blame my laptop for breaking, but 
I knew I was at fault, too.
I did end up with somewhat of a consolation, though. Instagram and Snapchat have not made any reappearances since I deleted them, seeing as I was never too attached 
to those apps in the first place. Nevertheless, I’m counting those two as small victories for myself.
Did ridding myself of social media make me feel any less anxious? I don’t think so, but that could be because I’m cheating at my own game. I’m not always such a 
compulsive social media user, since the extent of my usage mostly amounts to scrolling through posts as a method to wake up in the morning. So, maybe my quote-unquote 
“addiction” was never so bad in the first place?
Long story short, this experiment definitely needs a do-over once my laptop is fixed. Until then, I think I’ll try deleting, say, one app per week until all my social media 
is gone. I’m someone who does things slowly and in moderation, so I think adjusting the task to fit my own needs is perfectly alright. Taking it slow may be just the way to go, after all.
As a college student, a valuable lesson I have learned is to relax 
and destress during stressful times of midterms and finals. Usually, 
I temporarily set my books aside, open a new browser window, and 
stream a show to watch while enjoying my meal. Aside from popular shows like “Game of Thrones, ” “Stranger Things, ” and “Black Mirror” (which I love!) here is a list of television series and sitcoms that I 
believe are lighthearted enough to watch everyday.
Fresh Off The Boat
Before the success of “Crazy Rich Asians, ” Constance Wu was living 
in Florida with her three sons, husband, and mother-in-law. “Fresh Off the Boat” features an all-Asian cast and is based on the memoir of 
Eddie Huang, which tells the story of an Asian family adjusting to life in Orlando. Furthermore, the show makes many music and fashion throwbacks to the ‘90s and features cameo appearances by Jeremy Lin, 
Ken Jeong, and Stan Lee. You will definitely see how each character 
develops throughout the seasons, especially when watching Eddie, Emory, and Evan grow up. 
Good Girls
I don’t understand why Netflix fails to promote this show the 
way it deserves; I only watched this series due to my suitemate’s recommendation and later got several friends hooked. “Good Girls” talks about three struggling moms who rob a local grocery store in order to ease their financial issues. Despite the crimes they commit, 
you cannot help but side with them. Each episode is not only funny but 
also intense and will make you want to binge the entire season to find out what happens to the women.Santa Clarita Diet
“Santa Clarita Diet” is labeled as a crime comedy, but I would say it 
is dark humor with a hint of mystery. It talks about a virus that turned real estate agent Sheila into an undead, which causes her to crave human flesh. As she and her family try to figure out what exactly is happening, they have to search for Sheila’s meals. This show may cause 
you to lose your appetite in light of some gruesome scenes; however, 
I enjoy the storyline and how the producers use humor to lighten the overall heavy theme of the show.
Superstore
America Ferrera leads the show by portraying a retail worker at 
Cloud 9. The show follows a group of employees and their eccentric relationships with one another. The show uses satire to shed light on important topics such as feminism, employee benefits, and work 
dynamics within the working class. This is not an intense series, but 
every episode will leave you with a smile. 
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
This show is almost the definition of feminism and female 
empowerment. Ellie Kemper stars as Kimmy Schmidt, a young girl 
was tricked into joining a cult and kept in the dark about it for 15 
years. The show talks about her life in New York City after the incident and shows how she strives for positive change and does not allow her past to dictate her identity and life. I personally love the message the 
show brings and how it uses humor to examine issues of misogyny. 
Big shoutout to Kimmy’s sidekick and roommate, Titus Andromedon, since he delivers incredible music for the show, too. I T ried Deleting All My Social Media Apps, and 
This Is What Happened
Shows T o Watch for a Good LaughBy Jade  Hookham       Staff Writer
By Rebecca TSANG       Staff Writer
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
There are many positive aspects to spring, including increased amounts of 
flowers, butterflies, and sunny days. However, dressing for the temperamental 
San Diego weather can be a challenge during this season. Sometimes it’s hot, then 
it’s cold, then you’re not even sure what you’re feeling; you just know that you didn’t dress for the weather. A capsule wardrobe devoted to spring outfits can be the perfect solution to this fashion dilemma, because although you have a limited amount of clothing, each piece can be used in new ways to create outfits that are easy to put together for those rushed school mornings. Here are a few basics to get you started on your own personal capsule wardrobe. 
Denim Shorts
While these are a classic staple in any summer wardrobe, the beauty of denim 
shorts in the springtime is that they can be paired with winter pieces like sweaters or hoodies to create simple and easy spring outfits. If you are looking for some new shorts to add to your wardrobe, H&M sells inexpensive denim shorts that come in a variety of different colors.
Mom Jeans
Mom jeans are characterized as fitting comfortably at the waist but baggy in 
the leg area. The fact that this style of jean doesn’t cling onto your legs like skinny jeans makes them a practical addition to your wardrobe for those extra warm days. While mom jeans are on trend at the moment and can be found in most stores, American Eagle is a good, affordable option for those of us who are on the shorter or taller ends, as this brand gives people the option of selecting the leg length of jeans from XS to XL.
Hoodie
Never underestimate the beauty of a hoodie. Though it may not be considered 
the most fashionable clothing item, this outerwear is so easy to throw in your backpack and take on and off throughout the day. While there are many places to purchase a good quality hoodie (even on campus), a hoodie from your favorite musician’s merch line can guarantee that you’ll like that hoodie enough to get a lot of wear out of it this spring season.
Graphic T-shirt
A fancy graphic t-shirt can add a cool edge and personality to your spring 
wardrobe. The best part of this t-shirt is that it pairs easily with anything, and you can always add a hoodie or cardigan while still maintaining the integrity of your outfit. Thrift stores are often filled with unique t-shirts that are sure to be 
owned by you and no one else.
Fitted turtlenecks/long-sleeve shirt
Lightweight long-sleeve shirts are the underdogs of layering. The best part 
about a fitted turtleneck or long-sleeve is that you can wear it underneath 
t-shirts, camisoles, or dresses when it’s cool outside but still bright enough to wear summer pieces. Y ou can find these shirts at any stores that sell basics such as 
H&M, Forever 21, or Zara. Y ou can even go the extra mile and get a few different 
colors that allow you to mix and match even more possibilities.
Denim jacket
Denim jackets are a solid layering piece that go with just about everything. 
They’re not too warm, which make them the perfect outerwear for a warmer spring day. Consider thrifting a denim jacket to ensure high quality fabric with a low price tag.
White sneakers
White sneakers go with just about everything, from cute spring dresses to 
a casual t-shirt and jeans look. Not only can they be super versatile, but it’s a practical shoe to wear when running from Sixth College to Roger Revelle College for class while still looking fashion-forward.
Boots
Y ou know that pair of boots you bought over the winter that were super cute 
but useless at keeping your feet warm? Consider getting some use out of those 
boots by wearing them in the springtime! Fancy footwear like a good boot can 
make any outfit seem like you put in some level of effort. Even adding a nice pair of boots to a basic t-shirt and a pair of jeans can help elevate your look.
The benefits of a capsule wardrobe are numerous, as they can allow you to 
cut down your wardrobe and focus on your favorite clothing pieces. They can also help you narrow down your personal fashion sense and what you find most important in your own style. Fashion can be a fun way to express yourself and make you feel ready to take on the world. Give these basics a try and don’t be 
afraid to add your own unique pieces that make you feel confident! Spring Quarter Capsule 
Wardrobe Inspiration
By SAmirah  martinez        Lifestyle staff writerCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
Let’s get crackin’
Vote on Tritonlink April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for more information
AS ELECTION 2019MONDAY, APRIL 8 - FRIDAY, APRIL 12
VOTE ON TRITONLINK. POLLS CLOSE FRIDAY, APRIL 12 AT 4PMTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 8 - APR 142019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
UC SAN DIEGO BLOOD DRIVE  –  
LIBRARY WALK
The Gift that Keeps on Giving! Donate blood and 
save a life! DATES: Monday, April 8, 2019 Tuesday, April 9, 2019 Wednesday, April 10, 2019 Donate at the Bloodmobile on Library Walk
10am
SUN GOD FOR A CAUSE CLOTHING 
DRIVE  –  VARIOUS LOCATIONS
AS Concerts & Events is partnering with Healing 
Hands to bring you the first ever Sun God For A Cause Clothing Drive! Donate clothing items such as beanies, jackets, or socks to help the homeless around the San Diego community. All donated items must be, clothing items, cleanly washed, and if socks, they MUST be brand new
Drop Off Locations: Revelle College - Blake Hall, 
April 8 - April 12, 10AM  - 6PM; Muir College - Res Life Office, April 8 - 12, 10AM - 6PM; Marshall College - Res Life Office, April 13, 10AM - 6PM; Eleanor Roosevelt College - Student Activities Center, April 8 - April 12, 10AM - 6PM; Sixth College - Res Life Office, April 8 - April 12,     10AM - 6PM
12pm
SUPPORTING TRANSGENDER 
COLLEAGUES & STUDENTS 
LUNCH -AND-LEARN – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM 
Join us for a learn-and-learn session with Jeffrey 
Quave, LCSW. The presentation and discussion will focus on highlighting the challenges that face transgender people in the work place and students on college campuses.
He will provide an overview of transgender 
healthcare and the stages of transitioning. It will be followed by a discussion on how we can help support our colleagues and students who are at the various stages of the transition process. Refreshments will be provided. This event is free and open to the public.
4:30pm
TRITON FIRSTS: FIRST -GEN 
JOURNEYS– PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM 
Join the Triton Firsts community 
(first-generation faculty, staff and students) for this inspiring talk where dynamic first-generation college grads share their journeys. Registration for this event is required by Apr 10, 2019. Visit bit.ly/FristGenJourney.
5pm
GRAD SLAM – STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER, MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
Come cheer on ten graduate students 
participating in the 6th annual UC San Diego Grad SLAM competition - the winner will advance to the UC system-wide final round in May!TUE4.09
THU4.11MON4.08
10am
AS ELECTION –  VOTE ON 
TRITONLINK
The 2019 Student Election is here. In addition 
to the candidates for A.S. and College 
Councils, the ballot includes three referenda 
items: Warren College Activity Fee Referendum, 
Thurgood Marshall College Student Activity Fee 
Referendum, Graduate Student Association 
Activity Fee Referendum. Voting begins on April 
8th, at 10:00am and continues until April 12th, 
at 4:00pm. You can vote on Tritonlink at any 
time during this period! Voting is Over Easy, so 
let’s get cracking. 
10am
UC SAN DIEGO BLOOD DRIVE  –  
LIBRARY WALK
The Gift that Keeps on Giving! Donate blood 
and save a life! DATES: Monday, April 8, 2019 
Tuesday, April 9, 2019 Wednesday, April 10, 
2019 Donate at the Bloodmobile on Library 
Walk
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based 
on first come, first serve. Questions? Contact 
the zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. 
Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
6pm
POWER OF PHOTOGRAPHY FOR 
HUMANITY BY REZA  – ATKINSON 
HALL AUDITORIUM — QUALCOMM 
INSTITUTE
Join the UC San Diego Division of Arts and 
Humanities as we welcome Reza to campus as 
a visiting artist under the Roghieh 
Chehre-Azad Distinguished Professorship. Reza 
will bring his unique voice and photography to 
students, faculty and the greater San Diego 
community, exploring “A Dream of Humanity.” 
Event is FREE and open to the public. 
RSVP: https://rezaphoto.eventbrite.com
3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BEAR GARDEN - 
POKEMON EDITION  — REVELLE 
PLAZA
Join us for our second to last Bear Garden of the 
year! Catch us in Revelle Plaza for FREE food, beer, games, and prizes and meet ASCE Bear. FREE for UCSD undergraduates who were enrolled in at least ONE of three quarters in the 2018-2019 school year. Bring your government- issued ID for 21+ if you're here for the beer!
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL ENSEMBLE 
PRESENTS HAIRSPRAY! - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Don’t miss Muir Musical Ensembles production 
of Hairspray! Packed with music you know and love, from upbeat show tunes to the rhythm and blue, the student show will run from Apr. 6-13 in Mandeville Auditorium. Tickets are on sale now through the UC San Diego Box Office. The Muir Musical is the largest and the only musical theater on campus completely student directed and produced. Begun at Muir College in 1991, the production team is comprised of over 100 dedicated undergraduate students representing all colleges and diverse majors.
Contact: erjohnson@ucsd.edu 858-534-9372FRI4.128pm
EXPERIMENTS IN MUSIC: 
SPRINGFEST - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
Springfest is an annual festival of 
experimental music presented by the graduate students from the UC San Diego Department of Music- the premier center on the West Coast for experimental and new music.Throughout the week of April 7-14, artists from the music composition, performance, computer music and integrative studies programs will present diverse and adventurous programming in collaboration with artists from throughout the region. The festival includes 20 events, a majority of which will feature world-premiere performances and unique, interdisciplinary collaborations.
All events are free and open to the public. For 
a full listing of events, please visit: springfestmusic.org
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL ENSEMBLE 
PRESENTS HAIRSPRAY! - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Don’t miss Muir Musical Ensembles 
production of Hairspray! Packed with music you know and love, from upbeat show tunes to the rhythm and blue, the student show will run from Apr. 6-13 in Mandeville Auditorium. Tickets are on sale now through the UC San Diego Box Office. The Muir Musical is the largest and the only musical theater on campus completely student directed and produced. Begun at Muir College in 1991, the production team is comprised of over 100 dedicated undergraduate students representing all colleges and diverse majors.
Contact: erjohnson@ucsd.edu 858-534-9372SAT4.13WED4.10
12pm
R&R SQUAD – THE ZONE
Drop in every Wednesday and get a 
low-intensity back rub from the R&R Squad.
1pm
ILEAD ORIENTATION WEEK 2 - 
BEAR ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST IN THE SUN GOD LOUNGE
If you have ever wondered, how does iLead 
work? Or asked, what do you mean I need a stamp card? Or been confused about which 
model of leadership this program uses, this 
session is for you! Attend the iLead orientation 
to gain an understanding of how the program works, meet other students, and learn the 
basics of the Social Change Model.You will 
receive your stamp card and collect your first 
stamp!  
6pm
TV DINNER: MR. ROGERES – THE 
LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Travel back in time with us with the classic 
documentary "Won't You Be My Neighbor?" that highlights the influential change-the-world attitude of the acclaimed Mr. Rogers. From leading younger generations to changing public policies, the man who once said "love is at the root of everything ... love or the lack of it" can surely inspire you to make the changes you want to see.
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SOUTH PARKCLASSI FIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o community.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Clothing stand
6. Sad cry10. Cornmeal porridge
14. Deport
15. Singer ____ Diamond
16. Previously17. ____ school19. Bloodhound’s clue
20. Apple color
21. Quite little
22. Mediterranean island23. Rent contract24. Active person
25. Affirm
28. Shut hard
30. Harden33. Has debts34. Hurricane
35. Corp. head
36. Lizard or snake, e.g.
39. Harbor41. Brewed drink42. Leased again44. Famous canal45. Mar. follower46. Potter’s need47. Respect49. Thirst quenchers51. Sandwich shops53. Jotted down55. ____ code56. A Stooge59. Similar60. Communicate by letter62. Experts63. Additionally64. Test for flavor65. Of sound mind66. Bambi, e.g.67. Criminal burningDOWN
1. Swerve2. Wheel shaft3. Told fibs
4. Shade tree
5. Wobble
6. Poker stakes7. Least fatty8. Breezy
9. Shrewd
10. Roger ____ (007 actor)
11. Emphasize12. Aberdeen native13. Present!
18. Cool!
22. Punctuation mark
23. For fear that24. Be bold25. Heart artery
26. Use a broom
27. Detachment
29. Misplaced31. Ghostly32. ____ pole34. Peddle37. Annoyed38. Hawaiian garlands40. Cherished animals43. Approve47. Other48. Nap50. Compact52. Baseball blunder53. Snoozes54. Gumbo veggie55. Double agent56. Rock growth57. Wise about58. Adam’s garden60. Heel61. AverageCARS
2017 Ram Promaster 3500 in San Diego, 
CA. 2017 Ram 3500, Box truck, DODGE Ram 3500, 2017, 155,000 milesLength 168ins (14 feet) Width 91 inchesHeight 101 inchesAdditional features: Sleeper, heater, extra boxes for the driverPlease, email to XXXX@gmail.com or call( text is preferred)... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Nissan Altima 2.5 2.5 4dr Sedan 
in San Diego, CA. Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean you’ll never have to haggle and you can concentrate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty … ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds for more information
2012 Acura TSX Sport Wagon w/Tech 4dr 
Sport Wagon w/Technology Package in San Diego, CA. TSX 2.4 Technology, 4D Wagon, and five Gear Automatic with Sequential SportShift. Can extol the vir -
tues of its solid build quality. Here at San Diego Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram, we try to make the purchase process as easy and hassle free as possible … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Mountain Bikes for sale (North County SD) in San Diego, CA. I have my Trek 950 and my wife’s KHS Sport available. We are going to get a couple cruisers, so if you are looking for a couple nice bikes for single track riding or even cruising the roads, these may be a good fit for you. I checked on-line for com … ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds for more information
Electra Coaster 3i (Aluminum Frame) 
(Carlsbad Beach) in San Diego, CA. Hello, up for sale, an Electra Coaster three speed beach cruiser in good work -
ing condition. It’s full size, for teen or adult- not child size. Cost over 450 new! Aluminum frame - Used condition, a few scuffs, scratches, etc. - super smooth shifting … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Like New Schwinn Sidewinder Mountain 
Bike W/Front Suspension (Escondido) in San Diego, CA. 17.5” Frame size 26” Aluminum Wheels 21 Speed Shimano Components Clean and ready Like New Good for someone 5’4” height and up … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
HOUSING
1121 Eureka #4, $2595 - Amazing 2-bed + LOFT, Attached Garage, FIREPLACE , AC, Walk to USD Long term lease - MOVE IN READY! CALL TO TOUR! AMAZING AND unique townhome is located in a small well maintained community, within walking distance of USD. **Two on- suite bedrooms with large closets **Additional half bath for guests on the main living floor...ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
2827 Keats St., $1495 - Shelter Island/
Point Loma - Downstairs 1 Bed/1 Bath - Point Loma/Shelter Island: Great location close to shopping, restaurants, Liberty Station, marinas, sports fishing and downtown. Unit offers AC and heating, and hard surface flooring throughout ...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
8050 Columbus St., $1650 - MOVE IN 
TODAY!! Completely remodeled home - all new inside! New central A/C, new paint inside & outside, new kitchen cabi -
nets w/quartz countertop, new stainless steel appliances (including fridge!). Nice tile floor in living areas with modern laminate flooring in bedrooms. All new bathrooms including shower enclosures, vanities...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
2
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
BY Wesley Xiao
Staff WriterSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Stanislaus State
at Point Lomavs Point Lomavs Azusa PacificUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball 
W Tennis
M Tennis
Softball12PM
3PM3PM3PM4/84/84/9
4/10
Tritons Take 3 Games in a Row from Chico State 
After dropping the first game 
of the four- game series 3–-0, the 
No. 8 ranked UC San Diego caught 
fire, winning three in a row against 
interconference foe the California 
State University, Chico Wildcats, pushing themselves to a 20–-5 overall 
record and a California Collegiate 
Athletic AssociationCAA-leading 15–-5 record. 
In game two of the series, the 
Tritons found themselves behind 
late for a second consecutive game 
as Chico State had maintained their early lead a fter scoring 3 runs in the 
first inning and adding another one 
in the third frame. The Wildcats 
first four batters were locked in 
offensively, as collectively they 
batted .529 (9–-17) for the game. However, just when things looked 
like WildcatsChico State had things 
wrapped up, the Triton’s sophomore shortstop Shay Whitcomb launched a two-run blast cutting the de ficit to 
4–2 in the 7th inning. 
This is just what UCSD needed 
to get things going. They would 
respond the very next inning 5 runs and take a 7–4 lead. A fter a few 
walks to begin the inning, freshman designated hitter Michael Furhman knocked the game open with a bases-clearing triple, and with 
following RBI’s from Whitcomb, the 
Tritons took their first lead of the 
game. Senior rReliever Kyle Lucke came in for the Tritons in the 9th and recorded the save, but more 
importantly locked down the 7–5 
win. 
Game three of the series was 
the second game of the Saturday doubleheader, and building o ff 
the success from earlier in the day, the Tritons pieced together strong perforromances from their hitting, pitching and fielding to shutout the 
Wildcats, 5–0. 
Pitchers senior Preston Mott and 
sophomore Cameron Leonard were terrific all night long, surrendering 
only 4 hits in the shutout, and pitched 
5 and 2 innings respectively. At the 
plate for the Tritons, redshirt senior third baseman Alex Eliopopulos carried the team with a perfect 3–-3  
showing with 4 RBI’s on the night, 
including a 3-run homer in the first 
inning that gave the Tritons the spark they needed early on. Redshirt sophomore Designated hitter Aaron 
Kim and Elipopulos tacked on 
more runs, with one RBI a piece, in the 6th inning to push the lead to 5–0. Behind their stellar pitching, UCSD cruised to a 5-0 victory as 
Chico State remained neutralized 
offensively despite their strong 
showing in the previous game. 
In the last game of the series, 
the Tritons exploded o ffensively as 
they broke out for 11 runs, capping off the weekend in style. Following 
the Wildcats 2- run first inning, the 
Tritons answered quickly and took 
the lead by the 3rd frame, 9-–2. 
Doubles by redshirt sophomore first baseman Blake Baumgartner and CCAA leader in slugging 
percentage Aaron Kim knocked in 
a combined 5 runs in the second, and RBI hits from junior out fielder 
Alex Athanacio and Alex Elipopulos in the third put the Tritons up 9–-2. 
Triton’s sophomore starting pitcher 
Brandon Weems moved to 5–-0 on the season a fter the win and 
pitched 7 innings, conceding only two runs. Sophomore shortstop 
Shay Whitcomb added to the lead in 
the 8th with a 2 run double, and is continuing to put together a strong season batting .313, with 6 home 
runs and 22 RBIs. Relief pitchers 
redshirt junior Blaine Jarvis and freshman Lonnie Morris kept the Wildcats’ bats at bay the last two innings as the Tritons finished o ff 
the series with a commanding 11–-2 victory. 
As the season goes on, UCSD’s 
pitching has only gotten better. As 
the team continues to grind towards 
the playo ffs, the nation-leading 
pitching sta ff and its glittering 2.55 
ERA will have to be maintained. 
Ha yden Wellbeloved   hwellbell@ucsd.edu BY Hayden Wellbeloved
Contributing Writer
Softball Splits Weekend Series with CSU East Bay
Wesley Xiao   wex057@ucsd.edu 
The UC San Diego so ftball 
team faced o ff against California 
Collegiate Athletic Association rival 
California State University, East 
Bay on Friday, April 5 and Saturday, April 6. Th e Tritons’ four-game 
series — two games on Friday and 
two games on Saturday — against 
the Pioneers was shortened to just two games. UCSD was able to play its first two games at Ohlone College in Fremont, California, but the final 
two games, scheduled to be played 
at San Francisco State University, were canceled due to unplayable field conditions.
In the first game, UCSD beat CSU 
East Bay 5–4. Th e game came down 
to the final inning. At the top of the sixth, the Tritons scored two runs, pulling ahead 5–3. Th e Cougars, 
however, put pressure on the Tritons’ 
lead, scoring one run at the bottom 
of the sixth to bring the deficit to just one run. 
In the seventh inning, the Tritons 
were able to hold onto their one-run lead. Despite not scoring in the seventh inning, UCSD was able to stifle the Cougars’ attempt at a comeback, limiting them to just one 
hit in the seventh inning to win the 
game. 
The second game of the series 
did not go as planned, however. In an upset, the Tritons lost to the 
Cougars 8–3 in their second game. 
Going into the game, UCSD was the clear favorite, sitting atop conference rankings, while the Cougars were near the bottom: Th e Tritons had a 
record of 26–6 while CSU East Bay was sitting at 10–25. UCSD was unable to get anything going while at bat. For three out of the seven 
innings, the Tritons were set down in 
order without recording a hit. 
Despite the loss, the Tritons 
were able to put together some solid individual performances. 
Freshman left-fielder Keila Bosinger 
led the team on o ffense, recording a 
team-high 3 hits. On defense, junior Brittney Ross-Smith had a nice outing at first-base with 9 putouts.
Next week, the Tritons take 
on Azusa Pacific University in a midweek doubleheader. This is the first time UCSD will see Azusa Pacific this season. Th ey were set to 
play each other in late February, but that series was postponed. Th e series 
will begin on Wednesday, April 10 at UCSD.16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 8, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
