A coalition of non-resident 
UC San Diego students traveled to 
the UC Board of Regents meeting on May 15 to advocate against the 2.6-percent tuition increase, which was ultimately approved through a vote the following day. This new increase will raise non-resident supplemental tuition fees by $762 from the current $14,496 for undergraduates and $7,551 for graduate students, amounting to an estimated $28.9 million in new revenue for the 2019-20 school year.
The increase was initially 
proposed at the Regents meeting in March, but the board decided to table it due to fierce opposition from the University of California 
Student Association and some of 
the Regents.
Incoming Associated Students President Eleanor Grudin, incoming John Muir College Vice President Internal Affairs Corliss Lam, incoming Muir Vice President External Affairs Pankhuri Prasad, and incoming Warren Student Council President Elizabeth Niculescu, who are all either out-of-state or international students, attended 
the meeting to advocate against The American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees Local 3299, the largest employee union representing 
workers in the University of California system, organized protests across all 10 UC campuses and some medical centers on May 16. This was the fifth strike in a year against the university’s labor practices.
The most immediate reason for the strikes 
is the recent filing of three more Unfair Labor Practice charges against the UC Board of Regents, which include allegations of outsourcing and a failure to bargain with the union. One of the three most recent complaints alleges that the UC system refused to bargain over a proposed decision to contract work away from major bargaining unit workers. 
According to the filings, by refusing and 
failing to meet with the union, the UC System broke California State Government Code Section 3571. These complaints are currently being investigated by California’s Public Employee Relations Board, a quasi-judicial agency that mediates the implementation of labor codes.
“PERB should compel the university to cease 
and desist from proceeding with a plan to contract out bargaining unit work, restore the status quo — and if the university proceeds over the union’s objection — to make whole the affected employees and bargaining units by restoring the value of all work lost as a result of the university’s unlawful conduct, ” one of the complaints read.
At UC San Diego union members marched 
in front of Geisel Library while rallies were held outside the medical centers in East Campus and Hillcrest. In addition to AFSCME and University Professional and Technical Employees-Communications Workers of America 9119 union members, members and representatives from the San Diego and Imperial Counties Labor Council as well as the San Diego Building and Construction Trades Council rallied in solidarity.
“It’s been over two years of bargaining, and 
what they bring to the table is 2-percent raises that don’t even keep up with the increased costs of food, gas, or rent and utilities, ” Keith Maddox of the Labor Council said as he addressed the crowd. “On top of that, they want to outsource your jobs. Hundreds of millions of dollars of outsourcing is what they’re proposing. One in six jobs [are] already being outsourced. If it isn’t your job, it will be tomorrow. ”
UC spokesperson Claire Doan contests that 
the UC administration has made attempts to bargain and that it is the union that refuses to come to the table. 
“Despite more than 30 days of bargaining 
sessions and multiple competitive proposals put forth by UC over the past two years, ” Doan wrote in an email statement. “ AFSCME leaders have continually prevented members from voting — and deciding for themselves — whether they believe the university’s offer is fair. ” 
Maddox offered an alternative view of the 
situation, asking Thursday’s crowd, “What good is coming to the table if they’re just going to take your jobs?”
Doan also suggested that the continued 
strike activity is a leverage tactic.
“Five disruptive strikes since last May — 
including three in the past several months — come at a cost to patients, students, and VOLUME 52, ISSUE 28  MONDA Y , MA Y 20, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC SYSTEM
UCSD Coalition Advocates on Behalf  of  Non-Resident Students
Ari Lennox preforms at Spring-Send O ff in Price Center Ballroom West  // Photo by Francesca Hummler
By TYLER  faurot   senior staff writerLABOR
AFSCME Strikes for the Fifth Time this YearPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Women in Business makes 
it a priority to reflect on 
the social norms that limit 
a woman’s opportunity to 
claim a leadership position 
and garner the respect of her 
subordinates."
SPRING  SEND-OFF
NO  PLASTICRICO  NASTY  and  Openers
A week-long  case  studyA&E,  Page   8
Lifestyle,   Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Non-California 
residents are a 
minority [in the UC 
system], and that is 
a big part of why the 
Regents are able 
to continually use 
them as a source of 
income."MONDAY
 H 64 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 63 L 58
TUESDAY
H 63 L 58
THURSDAY
H 64 L 57
LIGHTS AND SIRENS......2
GIVING DAY ......................4
SCOOTERS......................6
DETECTIVE PIKACHU......8
BASEBALL.....................16RESEARCH
Liz Niculescu
Out-of-State Tuition
 PAGE 3The group of students traveled to Regent’s meeting to voice their concerns on the non-resident tuition increase.
BY  jacob sutherland
News EditorWOMEN IN 
BUSINESS
Features, page 7
See TUITION,  page 3See STRIKE,  page 3
UCSD Researchers to 
Conduct Non-
Cisgender PrEP Study
The study is being conducted to gain broader 
information on the HIV prevention drug.
The UC San Diego Antiviral 
Research Center is recruiting 
transgender and non-binary 
individuals for a study that 
provides Truvada for pre-exposure 
prophylaxis (PrEP) to participants 
at no cost. According to principal investigator Dr. Sheldon Morris, 
the study was started over a year ago 
due to a need for more knowledge in 
PrEP with transgender individuals. 
PrEP is classified as the use of 
drugs to prevent HIV , a disease 
commonly found in LGBTQ 
populations, in people who 
have yet to be exposed to it. The 
only drug approved for PrEP is Truvada, which is a combination 
pill of emtricitabine and tenofovir, 
according to Morris.
“These drugs block viral 
replication, ” Morris said to the 
UCSD Guardian. “Evidence 
shows that if people are taking 
that medicine, it can prevent the 
infection from happening. There 
is very high efficacy; if people take 
it four times a week, they can get 
up to a 95 percent protection from 
HIV . If taken everyday, it’s close to 100 percent. ”
According to Morris, the 
transgender PrEP study is funded 
through the California HIV 
Research Program. One of the main 
concerns was the use of hormones 
for gender-affirming reasons and 
whether that might influence drug 
levels in transgender and non-
binary individuals. 
“When PrEP was first 
approved, we had a project where 
we implemented it on 400 men who have sex with other men, ” 
Morris said. “We tried to include 
transgender participants but we 
had very low enrollment. Even 
when you go back to the original studies with Gilead Sciences, 
there were very few transgender 
individuals. So, our study was born 
out of a need for more experience 
with that and to answer specific 
questions about drug interaction. ” 
There are multiple studies on 
Truvada for PrEP in California, 
according to Morris. 
“Two other groups in the Bay 
Area are also conducting a similar 
study, ” Morris said. “I represent 
Southern California where there 
are three sites in Los Angeles and 
two sites in San Diego. ” 
To be considered for the study, 
participants must identify as 
transgender or non-binary, be at 
least 18 years old, and test negative 
for HIV . Eligible participants do 
not have to currently be sexually active and can already be on PrEP . 
According to its website, the 
study involves six visits over a one-
year period, HIV and STI testing 
at no cost, daily text reminders 
to take PrEP , and a survey about participants’ sexual health. 
Participants will also receive 
monetary compensation of up to 
$275. 
Anyone who is interested 
should call (619) 543-8080 or email prepstudy@ucsd.edu and ask for the “Transgender PrEP study. ”BY  Daniel li
Contributing writer2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TRUE REASON By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Only dummies read this part of the issue
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Jacob Sutherland
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Monday, May 13
3:16 a.m. Indecent Exposure - Lot 308Naked male walking near lecture hall buildings. Unable to locate.
6:50 a.m. Battery - UCSD 
Medical Facility HillcrestPatient punched and slapped staff member. Hospital security report taken. 
9:54 a.m. Welfare Check - 
Supercomputer CenterStudent acting depressed. 
Field interview conducted.
3:18 p.m. Medical Aid - Koman 
Family Outpatient PavilionFemale having seizures after surgery. Referred to San Diego Fire Department.
9:23 p.m. Vandalism - 
Executive DrReporting party witnessed subject damage glass showcase and put a hole in the wall. Referred to San Diego Police Department.
Tuesday, May 14
7:44 a.m. Suspicious Person - Revelle College Dr/Scholars Dr SouthMale yelling behind reporting party. Unable to locate.
12:41 p.m. Injury - Shiley Eye 
CenterFemale fell and injured nose. Referred to San Diego Fire Department.
10:30 a.m. Grand Theft - 
Computer CenterTwo unknown suspects stole the victim’s wallet, loss $1,875. 
Report taken.
3:35 p.m. Fraud - Salon 101
Subject was the victim of a scam. 
Referred to San Diego Police Department.
8:39 p.m. Medical Aid - Price 
CenterMale fainted and sustained a laceration to his chin. Report taken. Refused medical transport.
Wednesday, May 15
12:58 a.m. Noise Disturbance - Tenaya Hal lDoors being slammed and women laughing. Referred to Student Conduct.
9:10 a.m. Welfare Check - 
Social Sciences BuildingReporting party received a strange text message from son. Report taken.
12:16 p.m. Shoplifting - 
Structural and Material Engineering BuildingSubject stole headphones and speaker, loss $210.
5:34 p.m. Information - 
Nierenberg Hall
Transient male asking for water. 
Information only.
11:13 p.m. Suspicious Person - 
La Jolla del Sol ApartmentsSubject taking recycling. Check OK.
Thursday, May 16
12:40 a.m. Suspicious Person - Health Science Biomed Research FacilitySubject in wheelchair sleeping on side of building. Verbal warning issued.
1:10 a.m. Information - SIO 
LibrarySubject possibly masturbating in public. Information only.
3:16 p.m. Welfare Check - 
Discovery HallFemale student yelling and crying. Referred to Revelle Res Life.
8:16 p.m. Animal Call - South 
Mesa ApartmentsBird stuck in heating vent.Service provided.
10:18 p.m. Disturbance - 
RIMAC
Reporting party was punched by 
male subject over a basketball game. Medical transportation declined. Service provided.
 
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
the increase — although travel 
complications prevented them from actually speaking.
According to Niculescu, non-
resident students are regularly targeted for tuition increases as there are fewer of them to protest such hikes.
“Non-California residents are 
a minority [in the UC system], and that is a big part of why the 
Regents are able to continually 
use them as a source of income, ” Niculescu told the UCSD Guardian. “In order to stop this, we need a united coalition of students — even those not affected by this hike — to speak up and to make their voices heard. ”
Niculescu additionally stated 
that the tuition increase only serves as a temporary fix to a larger issue.
“ At its core, this tuition hike 
demonstrates that the Regents seems to think that increasing tuition is a solution for the state’s decreasing proportion of 
funding, ” Niculescu said.
In a Facebook post published 
after the Regents’ vote in favor 
of the increase was completed, Niculescu expressed her disappointment in the decision.
“This tuition hike is regressive, discriminatory, and fueled by a basic lack of consideration for non-California resident students, including out-of-state, international, and undocumented individuals,” Niculescu wrote. “Instead of petitioning the state of California for the funding the UC needs, the Regents have voted once again to raise tuition on an 
underrepresented group. ”
Student Regent-designate 
Hayley Weddle, who is a graduate 
student at UCSD, voiced her concerns to the board about how the justifications for the increase do not appear to be valid.“A  1 0 - p e r c e n t  a l l o c a t i o n  f o r  
financial aid doesn’t seem like it would alleviate the burden of food and housing insecurity that we already have data to show non-resident students are currently experiencing, ” Weddle said. “I also don’t see an explicit solution outlined in the proposal for non-AB 540 undocumented students [undocumented 
students not exempt from paying 
non-resident tuition] … I don’t have a vote on this board but I urge the folks who do to vote no. ”
The new 2.6-percent, non-
resident supplemental tuition raise will go into effect at the beginning of the 2019-20 school year. Of the estimated $28.9 million in new revenue, $2.9 million will be used for non-resident financial aid with the rest being allocated primarily for hiring new faculty.
UC communities while doing nothing to advance negotiations, ” Doan wrote in a university statement. “The way to a deal is at the bargaining table, not on the picket lines. ”
Margret Sheridan of UPTE 
told the crowd that persistent striking is a good thing.
“[The UC system] wants us 
to get tired, ” Sheridan said at Thursday’s rally. “They are trying to wait it out, to see how long it takes for you to tire out. ”
Another of the ULP 
complaints filed last week alleges that the university did not notify the unions about plans to contract with San Diego-
based Aya Healthcare to provide 
nonunion labor of an annual cost of $150 million.
Michael Avant, the executive 
vice president of AFSCME Local 3299, put this outsourcing plan into perspective.
“Currently we have 7,000 
workers who are outsourced right now,” Avant said on Thursday. “With the current proposals that the UC is offering, 
they would add another 1,700 
jobs to be contracted out yearly, adding another $150 million to the already $450 million worth of labor they’re outsourcing. ”Also in attendance was the 
current mayoral candidate and City Councilmember Barbara Bry, who briefly expressed her support for the union’s struggle.
“I want you to know I stand 
with you to negotiate fair jobs, ” 
Bry said. “I want you to be able 
to support your families and continue to live in San Diego. ”
At the San Francisco 
demonstration, 12 strikers were arrested after disrupting the UC Regents meeting. The UC bargaining team and the union are slated to meet again this coming week.
The revenue raised from the non-resident supplemental tuition increase will primarily be used for hiring new faculty
Bry: “I want you to know I stand with you to negotiate fair jobs. I want you to be able to continue to live in San Diego”▶ TUITION , from page 1
▶ STRIKE , from page 1Jacob  sutherland  news@ucsdguardian,org
tyler  faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.edu
AS  the  year  begins  to  draw  to  a  close,  
the  guardian  would  like  to  thank  you  all  
for  your  readership  and  support!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
UC San Diego hosted its first 
ever Giving Day between 
May 16-17, an event aimed 
to encourage donations through 
challenges and matched-gi ft initiatives, 
attempting to create a snow-ball of philanthropy. The concept of a “giving 
day” is not unique to our campus, it is 
a tried and true practice to create an 
event around university benefaction and prompt donations from previously unreached donors. The 
problem was not the fundraising itself, 
but rather the multiple emails sent to 
the undergraduate students of this campus, reminding them to donate to the campaign. This is not only 
unrealistic given that most students do not have the disposable income to make any signi ficant contribution 
to giving initiatives anyway; it is also an extremely tone-deaf action in a campus that is currently still trying to address massive food and housing insecurity.Although for this event donors could choose what campus are they wanted to designate their money to, with categories like Athletics and ArtPower, these donations were clearly not targeted towards fixing 
the most fundamental problems on this campus. Far from being a surprise however, this demonstrates the lack of humanity with which the administration is willing to treat its students. 
The brand of this university is 
research first, everything else second, 
and actions like mass-mailing undergraduate students who can’t afford to eat requests for donations is 
just one more example in the list. They 
so proudly announce initiative a fter 
initiative to placate the student body as we continue to complain about the miserable conditions we find ourselves 
in but by including us in those emails 
they prove yet again the bottom line of 
this institution, that it is not student-
centered but rather prestige-centered. Our tuition money buys us a yearly ticket to the spectacle that is UC San 
Diego, Researchers Extraordinaire, 
and we are told we are lucky that there are so many research opportunities on 
this campus. 
Every measure of improvement 
on this campus is reactionary, it is not because the university thought of its students but rather because there was public resentment against 
the conditions of the institution 
itself. There is a long and storied 
history of student activism on college 
campuses, a perpetual struggle against administrations with regressive goals 
and policies, and the ways in which it 
is the students that combat oppression. 
Most of the major activism campaigns we have on this campus are for worker’s rights, standing in solidarity with AFSCME and the other labor unions on campus, and that’s not even a UC San Diego problem speci fically, but 
rather a UC problem. However, UC San Diego’s biggest problems are not an administration that is inherently opposed to progress and liberal ideologies, but rather one that wants to forget its a university altogether.
That is, an institution dedicated 
to higher education, which implies that central to that role are the people being educated (students) and their well-being during their time at the university would be a priority because they are paying for their time at the institution. Instead we are asked to fund, with our loan money and our part-time job money, some sixty-year-old researcher down at SIO who is neither a student nor a professor and whose research will bring accolades to the institution.
Hypocrisy between claiming to 
have students best interests at heart and the constant disregard for the student experience on this campus is nothing new. That being said, as 
this university continues its blatant prioritization of research and growth 
at the expense of the current enrolled 
population, it becomes increasingly 
clear that something has to change within the student body in the face of an administration that is unwilling to 
recognize its role as a university first 
and foremost. By Adriana Barrios     Opinion Editor
ADRIANA  BARRIOS   opinion@ucsdguardian.orgHow    UC    SAN    DIEGO    FAILs    TO    PRIORITIZE    STUDENTS 
Giving Day OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
STAC
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEEThese meetings are biweekly
and open to the public.The Student Transportation Advisory Committee  
is a board of student representatives from each of the 
six college councils, the Graduate Student Association, 
and the Associated Students designed to advise 
Transportation Services and other UCSD administrators 
on the execution of the UPass program and various 
Transportation and Parking issues on campus.
College representatives can be reached via their college 
councils and STAC leadership can be reached via 
stac@ucsd.edu. Feel free to send any questions or 
concerns you would like addressed at STAC to this email 
or AS's general contact form at as.ucsd.edu.SYSTEM 32  
By System 32
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
The first time I rode an electric scooter, I was wearing heels. I was interning in 
W ashington, DC, and running desperately late to an event on Capitol Hill, 1.2 
miles away from my work. It was only my second week there and I hadn’t realized 
how far it was — walking or talking the Metro would take too long, and the nearest Ubers were all several minutes away. I was still in my work heels and a blazer, but I had no other 
choice.
It wasn’t unusual in DC to see people in business suits scootering around town. It was, 
after all, a very pedestrian friendly city, and what are electric scooter riders if not hybridized 
pedestrians? 
It was easy; after downloading the app and inputting my payment details, all I had to do 
was locate the nearest scooter on the map, scan a code on the handlebars, kick off, and go. 
The electric motor made the ride virtually effortless, and I showed up looking flustered, but 
not sweaty. Their dockless nature meant I was free to start and stop anywhere, so long as I 
parked it neatly and out of the way. 
In traffic-congested urban areas where traveling by foot is often easier than traveling by 
car, but a two mile walk that takes 35 minutes doesn’t sound attractive either, the electric 
scooter provides an alluring alternative.
Upon returning to California for Winter Quarter, I realized that the scooter movement 
had arrived at UC San Diego too. The 25-minute walk from Roger Revelle College to 
Rady School of Management could be cut in half with 
wheels, but not everyone found it useful to bring their 
own bike to school. Dockless bikes, like the orange 
Spin bikes that populate UCSD, solved that problem 
but brought with them a new one: without needing 
to be anchored to designated bike racks, people began 
parking them in odd places. Dockless scooters come 
with the same risks, but they’ve enjoyed greater success on campus and in surrounding areas.
“[The scooters] are small enough where you can just 
move them out of the way, but it’s harder with bikes and people will just leave them anywhere, like that one 
bike graveyard on La Jolla Village Drive, ” Sixth College senior Elisha Beebe said, referring 
to a well-known intersection at the edge of campus where bikes are often unceremoniously 
dumped  on the sidewalk.
“I feel like people are pretty responsible with [the scooters] on campus, in other places 
I’ve seen people hoard them, ” Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Keely Paris said.
A responsible user base is crucial to the future of these dockless transportation systems. 
Rules are only as good as the people who follow them.
For example, Bird Scooters require their users to be at least 18 years of age and submit a 
photo of a valid driver’s license in order to be able to ride. But not every scooter company 
has these stipulations, and it’s easy for underage users to sidestep these checks by using 
their parents’ licenses and birthdays. Aside from these lax guidelines, there’s no definitive 
age demographic of scooter users.
“I do see people using it in Santa Monica who look older, at least. But it’s mostly a young 
person thing because I heard about them from my cousin who is 15, ” Thurgood Marshall 
College junior Anahita Afshari said. 
“I love riding, it’s a very novel and fun experience, especially if it’s a nice day out. If my 
friends and I see them and we aren’t doing anything or we’re just waiting around, it’s like a toy and we’ll just scoot scoot around. ”
But in terms of efficacy, scooters aren’t necessarily her first choice. “If I’m on campus, 
scootering is way easier because I can go where a car can’t. But if I’m going to CVS or 
somewhere relatively close, it would be a 20-minute scooter ride [from the Village at Torrey 
Pines] and it would be less expensive and less hassle to take an Uber, ” she said.
When I asked if she would use them to get to work in the future, Afshari said, “It 
depends on my job but if I were in a city and there were a lot, then yeah, I would. But I don’t 
think I’ d use them past the age of 30, because I feel like it’s a very young person thing to do. ”
UCSD is currently home to several scooter-share companies: Bird, Lime, Lyft, and 
Spin. It’s not uncommon to see electric scooter riders in the fray of bikers, skaters, and 
pedestrians weaving their way down Library Walk.
I’m not the only college student who uses them to make up for lost time: “I will say I’ve 
made it to a couple [meetings] because of the scooters that I would have otherwise been 
late for, ” Afshari said.
The scooters are a harbinger of a larger transportation movement called micromobility. The central idea of micromobility is that we use cars when we don’t need to, simply 
because there are no better options — yet. Micromobility aims to shift our reliance on private cars to communal, bike-sized or smaller electric-powered alternatives. According to the U.S Department of Transportation data, 60 percent of car trips taken 
in 2017 were less than six miles long. Most people don’t have the time or energy to walk a six mile trip, or even one or two, but on a 15 mph electric scooter, all these distances could 
be covered in under 30 minutes.
The movement has its limitations, though. There’s an implied minimum physical ability requirement to ride electric scooters, as 
you probably wouldn’t put your elderly grandparents or someone with an injury on one. Due to their single-rider nature, it would still be easier to drive kids to school in a car rather 
than send them on a scooter caravan. There’s also no place on them to put shopping bags or 
groceries, so people with baggage will need to find alternatives. They’re less appealing of an 
option in inclement weather. Then there’s the whole issue of making the scooters profitable 
while also keeping prices low. And, finally, the big one: infrastructure. At UCSD, it’s quick 
and easy to get around our mostly pedestrian campus on an electric scooter. But what if 
your short six-mile trip includes freeways? 
Still, those invested in micromobility believe wholeheartedly in the cause. The inaugural 
Micromobility Conference took place in the Bay Area just this past January. The conference, 
which will take place in Berlin later this year, brought entrepreneurs, engineers, business 
leaders, government officials, venture capitalists, and academics together to reclaim cities 
for people, not cars.
The car industry has taken note. In late 2018, 
rideshare giant Lyft piloted Lyft Scooters, and auto 
manufacturer Ford Motor Co. acquired scooter startup 
Spin for $100 million. 
The future of e-scooters holds a lot of promise, 
as they’ve already proven to be more popular than 
any other mobility device that came before. But to 
continue on an upward trajectory, companies will have to start doing more than just releasing scooters into the streets. After all, motorized scooters aren’t new: 
Segway was introduced to the market in 2001, but was 
quickly relegated to a realm of tacky tourist activity. 
And who could forget hoverboards, the hottest trend of 2015 that became obsolete as soon as the novelty wore off?
Amidst all this micromobility publicity, the skeptics were quick to remind me that 
walking is still an option. 
“I don’t feel like I have a need for it because all of my classes are very central, around 
[Center Hall]. I’m never in a rush to get anywhere so I never want to pay to get anywhere 
faster, ” Beebe said. “I don’t even have the app and I never set it up because it’s not part of 
my routine. ”
“You could use the shuttle, too, ”  Paris said.There are also those worried that we are diving in too quickly, without giving proper 
thought to whether existing infrastructure could support e-scooters and place regulations on their use. In fact, many cities have begun banning the scooters because of potential 
hazards from reckless use. 
A preliminary Google search for “electric scooter accidents” generates lots of concerned 
headlines, alarming statistics, and even an advertisement for lawyers billing themselves as 
“Electric Scooter Accident Attorneys in Santa Monica. ”
Curious about potential legal recourse, I called Student Legal Services, UCSD’s legal 
counseling resource for registered students and organizations, and spoke to director and attorney Jon Carlos Senour. 
Senour confirmed that, in the case of user accidents, electric scooter companies make it 
difficult to take legal action.
“The detailed user agreement that no one ever reads shifts all liability to riders. 
When you agree to that contract, you’re agreeing that you won’t sue Bird for Bird’s own 
negligence, ” Senour said.
This means that any scooter company could shirk responsibility even for accidents that 
occur solely due to their equipment failing. 
Complicating matters even further is the fact that equipment maintenance varies from 
scooter company to scooter company. Bird hires freelance mechanics of varying experience 
levels as independent contractors, whereas Lime has a dedicated street team of technicians. 
This makes tracking down who to pin negligence on even more complex. 
After thanking Senour and getting off the phone, I checked the bus times and realized 
I was now going to be late to my 5 p.m. on-campus meeting. So I did what I usually do in 
this type of situation: I went outside, hopped on a Lime scooter, and zipped over to campus, 
rolling into my meeting with one minute to spare.Riding   Into  The  Future
Will electric scooters lead the future, or become another embarrassing fad?
By Cailin  Liu      staff Writer
“A responsible user base is 
crucial to the future of these 
dockless transportation 
systems. Rules are only as 
good as the people who follow 
them.”PHOTO COURTESY OF MICROMOBILITY INDUSTRIESFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Afsha Tabasum, a sophomore from Thurgood Marshall College majoring in 
bioinformatics, was watching a John Mulaney stand-up comedy special on Netflix 
when one particular anecdote caught her interest. Mulaney was explaining the 
results of a study he had read which explained why the subway in New Y ork City used a 
woman’s voice to tell passengers which stop was approaching whereas it used a man’s voice 
to instruct passengers to step away from the subway doors as they were about to close. 
Tabasum immediately recognized the applicability of Mulaney’s anecdote to her work as 
director of membership with the Women in Business organization on campus.
“The reason why they do this [on the subway] was because there was this study which 
said that people will take information from a woman, but they’ll take instructions from a man, ” Tabasum said. “It’s just strange that there are those norms. If there were more women 
in leadership, we could start to break that idea. ”
Women in Business, which was founded just a few years ago, considers itself to be part 
of the necessary effort to get more women in the business world — including building 
young businesswomen’s confidence to put themselves out there and trying to help foster a 
corporate world that’s more accepting of women in leadership roles. Jessie Fu, the director 
of programming at Women in Business and a Sixth College junior majoring in business psychology, emphasizes that Women in Business is about creating a safe space of inclusivity.
“We feel like with a lot of other business orgs, it’s really competitive, and not in a good 
way where you push each other to be the best. It’s more negative, like ‘I have to step over 
you, ’” Fu said. “So we want to break the barrier of that; we want to empower each other and 
genuinely be happy for each other’s successes. ”
As part of creating this “tight-knit” group — as Fu puts it — the organization holds 
a variety of events: workshops for members to improve their resumes and cover letters, networking and speaker nights so that members may learn from other women’s journeys 
into the business world, and social events and formals. Both Tabasum and Fu had friends 
who recommended that they join Women in Business, and both instantly felt comfortable 
talking to other members during the recruiting period. They found it refreshing to 
communicate with other students interested in business but who had a wide variety of majors.
As both Tabasum and Fu point out, the barriers to entry for women in the world 
of business are much more substantial than those for men. Women in the workplace 
often struggle to be taken seriously. Tabasum recalls an instance in one of her internship 
experiences where she and a male intern were simultaneously learning about how to 
implement a new program on a robot. She alone was complimented on her progress — her 
advisor seemed surprised at her efficiency and less so by her fellow intern’s. 
“It felt like they weren’t expecting me to learn it, ” 
Tabasum said. “It was kind of like, ‘Oh, she’s a girl, so, 
good for her for doing this. ’”
Women in Business makes it a priority to reflect on 
the social norms that limit a woman’s opportunity to 
claim a leadership position and garner the respect of her subordinates. Though gender roles have become 
more fluid in the past few decades, the stereotypes for what it means to be a woman remain. 
For example, some would say that women who leave their children for the day to run a 
business are selfish and have the wrong priorities.
“There’s this perception that a woman can either be a good mother and homemaker, 
or she can be very involved in her work life — but she can’t have both. So that’s part of the 
reason why, if someone’s in an empowered position in the workplace, people think that she must be neglecting her life at home, ” Tabasum said. “People kind of look down on 
those women, but there are so many cases where you can have a successful family life and 
a successful work life. ”
Then there are the social norms which lay out a framework for what a woman’s 
personality should be. Assertive women are labeled as bossy and controlling while men are praised for their leadership and firmness. Men command respect while women face 
backlash for the very same behavior. As a result, many women in the workplace lack the 
confidence to speak up.
“If a woman is in a strong position — the head of a company — she might be called 
uptight. With a man, it’s, ‘He’s so driven. ’ That’s a double standard, ” Fu said. “ At one of our workshops, we talked about how men are more likely to apply for jobs that they aren’t 
qualified for whereas women don’t. Also, women are more afraid to negotiate for the salary 
that they know they deserve for their qualifications. We need to work on empowering 
women to do that. ”
That’s where Women in Business comes in: enabling those who know they have the 
potential to be a CEO one day to network with role models and achieve their goals, and — perhaps most importantly — supporting those who don’t. In the process, the organization 
looks to avoid the competitive, cut-throat atmosphere that characterizes some other 
business-focused organizations.“I think it’s important to create a community where you can empower them personally 
and professionally, and making sure they can have that safe space to help each other grow, ” 
Tabasum said. Fu adds, “UCSD is such a large campus; sometimes, it’s hard to find help. 
WIB is a safe space for our members. ”
When asked if they know any powerful women who are role models in the business 
world and in life for them, both Fu and Tabasum have no hesitation before naming their mothers, who they say they have learned some of their best traits from. Tabasum’s mother 
decided to get her clinical laboratory scientist degree after having children and hopes to 
pursue an MBA. For Fu, her mother has taught her some of the traits she hopes to bring 
into the business world.
“She never gives up. She’s very much set on her goals, but at the same time, she’s very 
open-minded. She’s really taught me to value diversity and teamwork, ” Fu said. “She’s also a really kind 
person, and she has shown me the importance of 
having relationships with your team and employees, 
and to delegate tasks. She trusts her team and others, 
but while keeping her values. ”
The two have lofty goals: Fu wants to work in 
marketing or public relations in the beauty industry while Tabasum wants to work in the biotechnology 
industry, and both want to pursue graduate school. They’re glad to know they have a community of networkers and friends in their fellow Women in Business members. They 
hope that any UC San Diego graduate who was a member of Women in Business feels the 
same way, has grown personally, and has learned what it means to be a leader.
Though their efforts operate on a smaller scale, Tabasum and Fu are confident that a 
student organization encouraging more women to enter the business world is only going 
to reflect positively in industries of all kinds. Both firmly believe that a company which 
hires and values women will not only see the effects of a more diverse range of ideas, 
viewpoints, and problem-solving tactics, but will be more successful overall. Fu points 
out that women possess many social skills that men do not, which makes for “a refreshing workplace dynamic and a more open environment. ” Tabasum mentions that, as a woman 
in the business world fighting twice as many obstacles as a man does, that perspective is a 
valuable one to bring to a company.
“ All the [negative] comments that push back women in the workplace … I feel that it 
makes for more of a well-rounded decision-maker in the sense that we’re able to consider a lot more things than men would, ” Tabasum said. “Not everything is as black and white 
for us as it is for men, and I think that’s a really good quality to have in the business world. ”
Fu emphasizes that there’s no reason why members of Women in Business at UCSD 
couldn’t be the ones to contribute to revamping the status quo and changing the perception 
of women in leadership roles. She hopes that one day, in the not-too-distant future, no one 
will be surprised at a woman’s success in the workplace.
“I want our members to break out of their comfort zone and challenge the double 
standards, ” Fu said. “I’ d like to see more female leaders in the workplace — and I’ d like to have it not be weird, but be completely normal. ”
Riding   Into  The  Future
By Cailin  Liu      staff Writer 
Breaking  the  Glass  Ceiling  a t  UCSD
UC San Diego’s Women in Business is on its way to helping women fi nd the con fidence and connections they need 
to have a ful filling career in business — and it’s fi ghting gender norms and social standards in the process.
By Charlotte  Armstrong     senior staff Writer
“Though gender roles have become 
more fluid in the past few decades, the 
stereotypes for what it means to be a 
woman remain.”Women in Business hold a general meeting to discuss future activities.PHOTO COURTESY OF ALLI NEECEA&E CO-EDITORS // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Detective  PIkachu
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Rob Letterman
Starring  Justice Smith, Ryan Reynolds, Kathryn Newton
Release Date  May 10, 2019
Rated  PGCC+
“Detective Pikachu” features delightfully cute renditions of pokémon but ultimately fails to electrify audiences.
“Detective Pikachu” is a 
mystery-slash-fantasy film based on the internationally 
popular Pokémon franchise created by Satoshi Tajiri. Tim Goodman (Justice Smith) is an unmotivated insurance worker, living in a small town with his 
grandmother. When his father dies in 
a mysterious accident, Tim travels to Ryme City, where pokémon creatures and humans live in harmony. There, Tim 
meets Pikachu, an amnesiatic pokémon 
(Ryan Reynolds) with whom he can communicate. When the duo discovers 
that Tim’s father may be alive, Tim and 
Pikachu band together with reporter Lucy Stevens (Kathryn Newton) and her  pokémon Psyduck in order to find out 
the truth. However, what the trio discover 
threatens to endanger the entire world, humans and pokémon alike.
Fans of the Pokémon games 
and television series have had high expectations for this film, with many expressing the hope that “Detective Pikachu” will be the first game-based film that is considered well-executed in a very 
long time. Many people were excited by 
the film’s choice to cast Ryan Reynolds, of “Deadpool” fame, as the voice of cute and fluffy Detective Pikachu, and others 
felt that the animation of traditionally 2D 
pokémon was done in an accurate and adorable manner. Either way, the general response following the film’s first trailers 
was widely positive. However, though 
these facets of the film seemed to hint at success, they were, disappointingly, some 
of the only enjoyable aspects of the entire 
film.
The premise of the film is original 
enough and it creates the character of 
Tim with relative ease and emotional 
depth. Unfortunately, something feels off right away.. Perhaps it is the awkward and oftentimes unbelievable acting choices of 
the main characters, or even the strange 
pacing and organization of key events in the film. Regardless of these aspects, the film suffers terribly due to poor writing and line execution. In particular, the 
character of Lucy is incredibly poorly 
wrought and her introduction is cheesy and overdone. Attempting to rationalize the poor writing choices in these instances 
proved futile. There is a small chance that 
these moments were subtle nods to the brash and bombastic introductions of characters within the Pokémon games. 
However, even this excuse could not 
correct the abrupt tonal shift in her truly cringe-worthy introduction and, honestly, 
later lines as well.
Additionally frustrating were plot 
points in which characters’ actions or 
abilities do not seem to make sense. 
Examples include scenes where the villain 
seems to triumph over having caught our protagonists, only to inexplicably cut to the heroes walking away from 
the altercation at a leisurely pace. Or, 
perhaps, how Detective Pikachu’s special abilities are never explained or resolved. The pokémon of the film are very cute and fascinating to watch in semi-
realistic renderings, but they sadly cannot 
compensate fully for the clumsy handling of plot and very poor writing.
“Detective Pikachu” will certainly 
charm audiences with its endearing animated pokémon and heartwarming themes of love and companionship. There are a few humorous moments and it was 
generally enjoyable to watch. Given the 
usual results of game to film adaptations, this movie was certainly a step in the right 
direction. However, “Detective Pikachu” 
ultimately falls short of what fans had hoped for because adorable animated pokémon could not make up for its 
inadequate script and inauthentic acting.
— Laura  Hatanaka
Senior Staff WriterThe Spring Send-Off was a fun-
filled night featuring artists Rico Nasty, Ari Lennox, and Destiny 
Rogers, all of whom captivated the room throughout the show with up-beat performances and considerable stage presence. Each of these three artists were 
entirely different in both their music 
genres and overall vibes, with Rogers delivering a pop introduction to the Spring Send-Off, Lennox performing 
sensual songs that hypnotized the crowd, 
and Rico Nasty ending the show with her high-energy music. However,  these contrasting sets complimented each other 
and ultimately completed the entire show.
Destiny Rogers, a 19-year-old pop and 
R&B fusion singer/songwriter, was the first act to grace the stage. Although 
opening acts have the difficult task of setting up the crowd’s enthusiasm for the 
subsequent performers, she managed to 
execute her songs with raw talent and a natural stage presence that left a lasting impression upon new listeners. Rogers 
began her set with “North$ide” and then 
went on to perform “ Apologies” along with other songs off of her first EP “Tomboy. ” She ended her set on a high note with 
“Tomboy, ” the titular song that managed 
to capture the essence of who she is as an artist and an individual: a young girl breaking through gender barriers and 
social restrictions imposed upon her by 
the music industry. Her original songs surprised the audience due to their catchy melodies, and although many people in the crowd may not have known her name before 
the show, she left a 
lasting impression upon 
the audience.
Following Rogers, Ari 
Lennox came onto the 
stage rocking an orange fur coat as she delivered her vocal talents to an 
audience completely 
entranced by her charisma. Immediately, she commanded the 
attention of the room 
by seducing the crowd with her powerful lyrics and stage presence. Her songs were sexually 
liberating, leaving those in the room feeling 
empowered as they swayed along to her 
mesmerizing music. 
Towards the end of 
her set, she specifically addressed black 
women, encouraging audience members to appreciate them before she launched into her last song dedicated to black women 
in particular. Lennox’s interactions with 
the audience, whether it was through her monologue or direct comments to specific members in the crowd, broke the barrier 
between artist and listener, creating a 
unique sense of unity that stayed in the room for the remainder of the Spring Send-Off.
The last, but certainly not least, 
performer was Rico Nasty. Her official DJ introduced himself before she actually came out, building tension  with repeated 
recordings of her name until the entire crowd was in a frenzy, holding their 
breath in anticipation. After an evening of waiting, Rico finally walked out onto the stage and as soon as she did, it was 
as if the entire room flipped a switch. 
The room immediately filled with more 
excitement than before, as the crowd 
jumped and screamed along to every 
single song. The audience’s energy did 
not falter once throughout her entire performance; it only seemed to increase as she went further into her set. Although 
all of her songs were high energy, “Tia 
Tamera” took the cake for the most hype performance of her entire set. As soon as the first beat dropped, the audience 
went into an uproar, doubling the amount 
of mosh pits and tripling their hysteria with one of her most famous hits. Her DJ  contributed to the crowd’s experience by encouraging the mosh pits and delivering 
the beats that allowed Rico to perform. It was through this seamless team effort that 
they succeeded in hyping up the room.
Although the Spring Send-Off 
featured three unique artists with 
their own distinctive genres, each of 
these performers offered the audience a different experience that contributed to the overall success of the show. The eclectic mix of artists gave the audience a 
rollercoaster of emotions throughout the 
entire show and offered the perfect blend of fun, seduction, and excitement.
—  Erin  Chun
Contributing WriterThrough their dynamic sets, Rico Nasty, Ari Lennox, and Destiny Rogers created a 
night of non-stop music and fun for excited UCSD students.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  Price Center West Ballroom
Concert Date   May 15, 2019Spring Send-OFfPHOTO COURTESY OF FRANCESCA HUMMLER
CAA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Mobile 
TicketUC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER
TRANSIT PASS
Use your phone as 
your mobile ticket to ride with the
COMPASS CLOUD APP  Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Cloud and get 
unlimited rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.) 
Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  
or continuing students from Spring 2019 to Fall 2019 required.
summerpass.ucsd.eduExclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
ONLINE SALES ONLY: 
JUNE 19 – AUGUST 31
Trevor Noah, the South African 
comedian-turned-host of “The Daily Show,” isn’t shy to be 
seen as an outsider. Born and raised in apartheid-era South Africa to a black mother and a white father, he was a mixed-race child whose birth was a literal crime. Noah rose rapidly to fame when Jon Stewart plucked him seemingly out of obscurity (though he’ d received notable success outside America) to replace him on the Daily Show. Ever since, Noah has distinguished himself from his late-night talk show colleagues by utilizing his unique perspective as an outsider to make insightful commentary on American life 
and politics.
 Noah initially planned his “Loud and 
Clear” comedy tour for late 2018, but after 
losing his voice, he rescheduled his shows for Spring 2019. On May 11, he performed at the SDSU Viejas Arena to a screaming crowd of all demographics. In fact, the 
first thing you might notice walking into 
a Trevor Noah comedy show is just how varied the audience is. Audience members at the arena ranged from college students to parents to elderly couples. 
 In “Loud and Clear, ” Noah’s jokes are the jokes of a pseudo-researcher presenting his earnest observations of an alien species — Americans, usually, but not always — to that alien species. He conducts his comedy with an air of mock outrage and wide-eyed bewilderment, from his exasperation toward the furious honking culture of California drivers to his horror of the “secret world” of women’s periods. When he raises his discoveries, it isn’t with judgment, but rather with gleeful surprise and bafflement. In one of his most entertaining bits, Noah (who speaks an impressive six languages) tells an anecdote about his experience visiting a German sandwich shop, laying out the 
story with a delightful array of different 
voices and accents. After speaking with the waitress in German and seeing her react in fear, he had the awkward discovery, “The manner in which I speak my German is, ah, vaguely reminiscent of Hitler. ”
Another comical bit involves 
Noah giving the men in the audience a surprisingly educational lesson on menstruation products. At one point, he addresses every man in the front row, urging, “Do you know what a diva cup is? Do you?” When every man shakes his head, Noah laments the state of society in mock outrage and explains in clinical detail the purpose of a diva cup. Growing up with a single mother determined to educate him about women’s issues, he learned about women’s bodies from an early age. He spins this story into an honest and respectful discussion of the Me Too movement, acknowledging his own privileges and blind spots as a man with a charming humility. The comedy bit isn’t targeting the women whose lives he doesn’t understand; it is targeting the men who refuse to take the initiative to learn about women.
Many comedians can often rely on 
somewhat mean-spirited comedy for their performances, entreating the audience to laugh along with them at some “other. ”  The audience is treated as an in-group — we are in on the joke, we are the intelligent ones, we know what’s normal and what isn’t. No matter what, the audience is 
always laughing at someone — it can be 
at the ridiculousness of another culture, of millennials, or of baby boomers. Conversely, Noah often positions the audience, and himself, as the butt of the joke. We are all ridiculous, and so many of our actions make no sense. We are laughing at ourselves, and at the same time, we are learning about ourselves as well. We are learning about our own culture, our own weird social tendencies, from the perspective of someone who was raised outside of it. The connecting tissue of most of Noah’s comedy involves his own discoveries about other people’s lives. He is a person who delights in learning new things about the world, and we as the audience get to watch him relay his discoveries. In that reasoning, it makes perfect sense why an audience at a Trevor Noah comedy show would be of so many varied ages and races. There is no age limit 
on wanting to learn more about the world.  
— Tany a Nguyen
Contributing Writer
EVENT  REVIEW
Trevor Noah's "Loud and Clear" Tour
PHOTO COURTESY OF HAHAHA.COM
Event Date   May 11, 2019
Venue   Viejas Arena at Aztec Bowl SDSUCA10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  2 0 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
We all know that plastic is a problem for our oceans and marine life, but can 
college students truly be plastic free? Inspired by the Plastic-Free Challenge 
video posted by Lucy Fink from Refinery 29, I wanted to see if living plastic-
free as a college student would be more of a challenge than for the average adult. I have always been conscious of sustainability and taking better care of our earth, but sometimes as a college student, you find yourself using plastic cutlery eating take out from Price Center in a plastic container. Is it even possible for UCSD students to live plastic free?
Before I started this challenge, I already had a few products in my possession 
that could help me along the way. First, I have my go-to reusable metal water bottle. Obviously, many of us use refillable water bottles on campus (shout out to everyone with a trendy Hydro-flask), but we often forget how helpful this can be in keeping plastic water bottles out of our landfills. Next, I have a package of reusable metal straws that I had purchased a few months ago. When I order iced coffee on-campus, I often forget to reach into my bag and grab these straws, but thankfully many cafes on campus have switched to paper straws. However, this week I really wanted to commit to this challenge, so I put these straws back in my backpack just in case.
The best way to be sustainable is to use products you already have, but I 
decided to temporarily swap out products that I already owned in favor of plastic-free products to get a sense of how challenging it may be to acquire these products. One of the areas where I found the most plastic packaging was in my face, body and hair care products. My shampoo and body wash were in plastic bottles, and even my toothbrush was entirely made of plastic. Thankfully, Lush in Westfield UTC offers a variety of plastic free products in bar form, including cleanser, shampoo, body soap, and even toner. With products that were more difficult to find, I turned to Amazon, where I was able to find a bamboo toothbrush to replace my plastic one and makeup-removing towels to replace my non-reusable makeup wipes. The most challenging part of going plastic-free in this area was just acquiring the products. It didn’t feel weird or out of place to switch to these products as they were easy to use.
Let’s talk about periods. Thanks to my irregular uterus, my monthly gift 
decided to come early and during this week’s challenge. While I mostly stuck to my regular routine, I discovered that the plastic wrapping of tampons and pads and even the tampon and pads themselves account for a large amount of waste that makes its way to our landfills and oceans. In addition, many pad and tampon companies pump these products with absorbing and odor-cancelling chemicals that can harm marine life. Menstrual cups are often seen as the most sustainable option as they can last through years of periods. However, the thought of inserting a menstrual cup kind of freaked me out, so I wanted to see if there was anything else out there. Finally, I found Natracare, a pad and tampon brand sold at Whole Foods, that has paper or plastic-free packaging, and their pads and tampons are often free of these harmful chemicals. I also found reusable cotton pads on Amazon, which I actually purchased and tried at home, and found them to be a lot more comfortable than normal pads and far less gross than they sound.
Despite my best efforts, I failed multiple times throughout this plastic-free 
challenge. When I ordered my iced coffee at a coffee cart and popped my metal straw in, I realized my cup and lid were plastic. Trader Joe’s, my grocery store of choice, often keeps my favorite fruits and vegetables in plastic packaging, which is something I completely forgot to account for. Finally, when I went to the thrift store inspired by my sustainability kick, it wasn’t until I left the store that I realized my new clothes were in a plastic Goodwill bag that I really didn’t need.
So can college students be plastic free? My answer is not entirely. While 
we can be conscious of our choices and try our best to be sustainable, it’s important to note that sustainable products are often viewed as trendy and therefore, the price of these products are hiked up. For a college student on a budget, fancy Lush shampoos may not be feasible. Additionally, we live in 
a world where plastic packaging is so ingrained in our culture that it’s easy 
for plastic to slip into our day-to-day life, as seen by my slip-ups this week. It wasn’t like I consciously chose to break my rule, but it just happened, often without realizing that I take plastic for granted. It is possible to make a change — no matter how small — if we take proactive measures every day. While you don’t have to go 100 percent plastic free, I think the best we can do as humans in this world is to be sustainable when we can, and splurge on more expensive, sustainable products wherever possible to show major companies that we prioritize sustainability. With time, maybe a sustainable future can become our new reality. I T ried Using No Plastic for a Week
By  Samirah  martinez       Lifestyle STAFf writer
College campuses generate huge amounts of plastic.
The Scripps Institute of Oceanography is working to improve the amount of plastic waste at UCSD and around the world.PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD SUSTAINABILITY
PHOTO COURTESY OF SCRIPPS INSTITUTELIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
With graduation right around the corner, many seniors are seen walking 
around and on campus taking graduation photos in front of Geisel Library or 
on Library Walk. If you are like me, where you have a full schedule of classes, 
work, and social activities to attend, you may find taking graduation pictures a stressful process. However, I truly recommend it, as the experience and photos will be unforgettable and sentimental. Therefore, here is a quick guide for you to ease into taking some amazing graduation photos.
Photographer and Friends
If you have a friend who enjoys photography, ask them if they can do you a 
favor; it may be better to ask a friend so you feel more comfortable. If you do not know any photographer friends, I’ d recommend searching on Facebook; because during this time of the year, many photographers are advertising their offers online. Be sure to check out their portfolios, reviews, and whether or not the session fits within your budget and schedule. 
If you are an introvert and a little awkward, like me, I’ d highly recommend 
bringing a couple of friends. This not only makes the experience more fun, but it eases the tension of being the center of attention. Furthermore, some photographers offer discounts for a group session. The only downside is the more people you include, the more complicated scheduling will become so I would refrain from inviting no more than two or three friends. 
Props and an Outfit
Yes, you are the star of the shoot and the entire focus should be on you. 
However, a few accessories would not hurt. Consider bringing champagne, biodegradable glitter, balloons, or any other props you think would add a theme for your photo shoot. It is very common to wear a graduation stole and semi-formal attire; a dress for ladies and a slim-fit shirt and dress pants for men. Take notice that the University of California San Diego’s graduation stole colors are royal blue and gold, so choosing a deep blue dress or shirt may not be ideal. By the end of the day, the photos are for your own memories — there is no dress code, so wear whatever makes you feel great to capture the moment. If you want, break the conventions and rock a jumpsuit or shorts! 
Take weather and the location of the shoot into account when selecting your outfit. If you are planning to go to a beach, long dresses and pants may cause inconvenience. For those who want to wear high heels, consider the amount 
of walking needed and carry bandages and comfortable shoes to change. If the 
location of the shoot is windy, using double-sided tape will temporarily prevent your stole from flying around. 
Locations
As students of UCSD, it is ordinary for students to take pictures in the heart 
of the campus, Geisel Library. Indeed, it provides stunning backgrounds and a clear city view, but consider other parts of campus or even other San Diego landmarks. Within 4 miles away from Geisel Library, Scripps Pier provides the iconic architecture while incorporating a beach view. Rady School of Management gives a modern and professional aesthetic while the eucalyptus trees by Muir College have a rustic feeling. A picture in front of your major’s department building may trigger both happy and painful memories. 
There are a countless number of places in San Diego that are photo-friendly. 
Balboa Park, Old Town, Seaport Village, Coronado Island, or Sunset Cliffs are also great places to shoot outside of campus. If you and your friends always hang out at a certain restaurant or café, consider asking the staff before the shoot if you can have a photoshoot session there. All in all, these are just some ideas that you can think about before you decide. 
Through careful planning, most aspects of your photoshoot will be fine. 
Ideally, you should already have an envision of what you want to incorporate such as jumping, throwing your cap in the air, or any specific poses before the start of the shoot so you do not waste time. Lastly, be sure to tip your photographer, bring water, makeup for touch-ups, and lots of smiles! Congratulations Class of 2019! Guide For Y our Graduation Pictures
By  Rebecca  Tsang       Lifestyle STAFf writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  2 0 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Every family has their traditions: their own way of expressing the 
love they share. With my family, every year since I was five years 
old, we have gone on a trip. Now, this is no ordinary trip where we go to a different place when the time comes. This is a trip to one particular spot, during one specific time and place of the year. Before 
the madness of Easter and Spring Break, my family and I revisit the 
crisp mountain air of Y osemite National Park. How they came across this beautiful land, I will never know, but what I do know is that I am forever grateful to know of this place and call it a second home.  
In Yosemite, the scenery is like a picture: so relaxing and still that it seems unreal. There are so many things to do, but the first step is getting there, and if you get nauseous like I do, I recommend some medicine that will help you sleep and keep your lunch down as you go up the side of these winding roads. It takes roughly eight hours to get to the inside of the park  from  San Diego, and once you’ve reached the top, you pay a one-time fee for a week-long pass into the park. Now, to the fun part: exploring. 
 I remember sleeping in a cabin surrounded by the tallest trees, where 
the only noises I heard were of the leaves falling, winds howling and bear claws as they tried getting into the safe boxes scattered around the camp where we would hide our food. Once the sun came to wake us up, we would get ready for the day. With so much to do, we had to use our time wisely. There are so many different paths we could take, but the one I am most fond of is called “Vernal Falls, ” where the trail started off brutal for my five-year-old body, but as I grew and gained strength, the trail became easier. There is a bridge that we get to after the uphill battle where we take deep breaths and enjoy the flowing water that is coming from the waterfall behind us. At times, this is where half of my family splits up because there are only a few of us who can continue going up to the top of the waterfall, so the rest take the children back down and wait for the others to return so we can have dinner at our favorite pizza place. Once we reach the top of the waterfall, I feel as though I can accomplish anything. It is very rewarding to be able to make it to the top and enjoy one of the views of nature so high above everyone else. On the way down, there is a race to the bottom to see who can get down first and the loser buys dinner. No family traditions can go without a little competition.
Now, let me tell you about this pizza place; it makes some of the best pizzas 
I have ever had. It is authentic and can only be enjoyed with family sitting up in the mountains. There’s not too much sauce and just the right amount of toppings for you to indulge in. Why eat anywhere else? We also cook our own food so we don’t spend too much money, but the pizza place is a must. There is no cell phone service until you get all the way back down the mountain and into the little village right before heading up, which allows us to actually be able to enjoy each other’s company. Stories are being told, laughter is being shared and memories are being made. I love the fact that my family makes it a priority to go on this trip every year. No matter where our family is scattered around the world, we know that we will see one another in Yosemite. I have come a long way from being five years old. My parents started this tradition and as our family grows, these trips get better with age. My cousins and I are older and have kids of our own, so now we take them to our secret place in hopes that they remember these fun times and take their children someday. However, there is one last thing we do before leaving the park: drive to what is called the “tunnel view” of Yosemite, which is perhaps one of the most famous views of the park. From here you can see for miles. We have a great view of the valley as well as Half Dome and various waterfalls. You would need to do a whole 360 to take in the view. It is quite mesmerizing. We silently thank the air as the wind carries our breath into the valley, saving it until we meet again next year. Meet Me in Y osemite
By  Claudia Miranda       Lifestyle contributing writer
Yosemite has some of the most stunning v istas in the world.CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | DATE | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
TRITON GAMING EXPOSATURDAY, MAY 25
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each week. 
Materials provided, space is limited. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM -CROSS CULTURAL CENTER 
CONFERENCE ROOM
This informal drop-in group is designed to talk 
about topics relevant to Asian, Pacific Islander, Middle Eastern, Desi American (APIMEDA) 
students at UCSD in supportive and problem- 
solving atmosphere. 
3pm
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY 
LIVING- 190 GALBRAITH HALL
If you have been curious about mindfulness, this 
workshop is a perfect way to explore it. Mindfulness can help you reduce stress, anxiety, 
and depressive mood. You will engage ion 
various mindfulness exercises, so you can 
incorporate them into your life. All students are welcome to attend this workshop,no matter your 
level of experience with mindfulness or 
meditation.
7pm
UG PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE, MUS 
32-CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER RECITAL HALL
Free. Contact: mus-publicity@cloud.ucsd.edu
11pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM PRESENTS: GRUNION RUNS- BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Join aquarium naturalists to see hundreds of 
small silver fish called Grunion ride the waves onto La Jolla beaches to spawn. Learn about the fascinating lives of these mysterious fish, hatch Grunion eggs before your eyes, and then head to the beach to observe Grunion in the wild. Prepare for cool, wet conditions and bring a flashlight. Minors must attend with a paid adult, for ages 6+. Each event runs until 1:00AM . Pre-purchase required: 858.534.7336 or at aquarium.ucsd.edu. Members/Public: $18/$2012pm
MAYA VANDERSCHUIT: SOFT WAVE, 
ELECTRIC SOUL -309 VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY
Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu 858-822-7755
3:30pm
OUT OF THE BOX FORUM-CORSS 
CULTURAL CENTER, TRANQUILITY 
ROOM
This informal group is a safe space for students, 
faculty, and staff of mixed/multiethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open atmosphere. This forum is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Please contact CAT Thompson if you plan to attend. Contact: Cat Thompson: (858) 534-3987
7pm
FELIPE ROSSI, COMPOSER - 
GRADUATE RECITAL -CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Program information to be announced. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu 
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: SHOFFY -THE LOFT
We're bringing Shoffy to you at the end of week 8 at The Loft! Shoffy is an indie-pop/lo-fi/pop singer-songwriter who has an array of musical talents and has racked up 3M Spotify monthly listeners.FREE for UCSD undergraduates with valid ID, no ticket needed. Just show up with your ID and we'll scan you in! GA: $11 - UCSD Box Office. Contact: ascespecialevents@ucsd.edu
Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/2276258045972572/TUE5.21
THU5.23
12pm
TRITON GAMING EXPO-PRICE 
CENTER
Triton Gaming Expo is an all-encompassing 
celebration of the arts, new technologies, and the gaming industry. It is UC San Diegos annual gaming convention that fosters creativity, community, and competition. Experience dozens of epic activities, interact with the community and our special guests, and go home with thousands of dollars in giveaways and prizing. Contact: tritongamingofficial@gmail.com SAT5.25MON5.20
10am
YOUR BODY TONE YOUR MIND -THE 
ZONE 
Learn basic mindful movements to reduce stress 
and improve mood. Facilitated by Dr. Diana Quach 
( 858) 534-7710.Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
10am
DESTRESS MONDAYS-COMMUTER 
LOUNGE
UCSD University Centers (Price Center and 
Student Center) Presents: Destress Mondays 
Doors: 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM. FREE for UCSD 
Students w/ ID. Mondays can be stressful, so start 
your week on a high note with FREE tea and 
snacks! Come destress with University Centers 
EVERY MONDAY this winter quarter! 
#DeStressMonday. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/408824529955
608/
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP 
FORUM -THE WOMEN'S CENTER 
SMALL GROUP ROOM
Join us for conversation & Connection. This 
Community forum addresses relationships, sexual 
health community building and more. Weeks 2-10 
Spring Quarter. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
9am
FLOURISH @ UC SAN 
DIEGO-STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be 
well at UC San Diego? Dr. Wesley Kayne and a wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, self-care, and self-compassion. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
12pm
ALEXANDRA NEUMAN: THE HOLE 
IS WAY DEEPER-404 VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
"the hole is way deeper" is an installation of 
three video works that explore the ways in which cognition is distributed throughout the body, between bodies, and across closed systems. First Year MFA Review Exhibition. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.eduFRI5.24WED5.2212pm · PRICE CENTER
11am
ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 
INFO SESSION SP'19- T+LC ROOM 1504
Get an internship/research position, and have it 
count towards course credits here at UCSD!  "How?" you ask -- well, come to our Spring Info 
Session and find out! Think ahead and start 
planning for Fall'19 NOW! WHERE: Teaching + 
Learning Commons, Room 1504 (Geisel 1st Floor West) WHEN: Wednesday (05/22) 11:00a.m. - 12:00p.m. Contact: aipinfo@ucsd.edu
1pm
WISE FORUM: GRADUATE WOMEN 
IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING BY REFERRAL ONLY -190 GALBRAITH 
HALL
Please join us for a weekly support group for 
graduate women in the sciences or engineering fields where women are underrepresented. Our goal is to foster a sense of community and support toward the attainment of goal, and to encourage self-empowerment to increase and develop a vision for one's personal and professional life. By Referral Only: Contact Judy Goodman, Ph.D. ( 858)534-9799. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DROP IN 
WORKSHOP -190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life.
6pm
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH FILM 
FESTIVAL: ESTA TODO BIEN-GREAT 
HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Today, the near-total collapse of Venezuelas 
health system is resulting in severe medicine shortages, a dramatic increase in infant mortality, and a mass exodus of doctors to hospitals overseas.
7pm
WEDS@7 STEPHANIE 
RICHARDS-CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Stephanie Richards has built a compelling 
presence in the creative music scene, having recorded with pioneering artists ranging from Henry Threadgill, Anthony Braxton and John Zorn to Deerhoof, St. Vincent and Yoko Ono. Her works have premiered at Carnegie Hall, The Blue Note and Lincoln Center. She is co-curator of the Festival of New Trumpet alongside Dave Douglas and is a Yamaha artist.Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.eduTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAY 20 - MAY 262019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
BEARS, OH MY! 
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1.  Ingredient in some salads
6. High-five, basically10. Bed board
14. Clumsy mistake
15. Floor piece
16. Be down with17. Honorific for José18. ‘’Absolutely!’’
19. Uranium unit
20. Start of some advice
23. Actress MacGraw26. Movie, slangily27. Warmed up in the microwave
28. Newsman Koppel
29. Outdoor
32. Doesn’t stand straight34. Part 2 of advice39. ‘’__ Breaky Heart’’
40. Like a gymnast
42. Religious image
43. Part 3 of advice45. A ‘’CSI’’ location46. Place into liquid49. Part 4 of advice50. City in the Tonkin region53. ‘’Veronica Mars’’ network54. QB’s stat55. End of advice59. Martial god60. Move like The Blob61. Key letter65. Actor Auberjonois66. Rhineland refusal67. Moral precept68. Whirlpool69. God of love70. Stable soundDOWN
1. ‘’Frontline’’ airer2. Tap choice3. Business partner, perhaps
4. Bender
5. In respect to, with ‘’of’’
6. Golfer’s concern7. VIP’s wheels8. Baldwin brother
9. Scout’s accessory
10. Castaway’s residence
11. Shop tool12. Steer clear of13. Day worker
21. Laotian currency
22. New Age glow
23. Brother of Prometheus24. Parasite25. British Columbia neighbor
30. Bête __
31. CIO partner
33. Greenwich Village sch.35. 100236. Modify to new conditions37. Desert wanderer38. Small cuts40. Ticket phrase41. Precious stone44. Literary celebrity45. ‘’Monkey Trial’’ reporter47. Dutch artist48. Hot spring50. On board51. Change, as a bill52. Intrusive55. Hounds’ prey56. Gardener, at times57. Basso Pinza58. Shakespeare’s shrew62. Key letter63. Something in a pen64. ‘’Darn!’’ in DüsseldorfCARS
Used 2016 Honda Civic EX in San 
Diego, CA. Features: 158 horsepow -
er horsepower, two liter inline 4 cyl 
DUAL OVERHEAD CAM engine, 4 
Door, 4-wheel ANTI LOCKING BRAKES 
brakes, Ac with climate control, 
Audio controls on steering wheel, 
Bluetooth, Clock - In-radio display … 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2017 Chevrolet Silverado in San 
Diego, CA. Recent Arrival! Priced 
below KBB Fair Purchase Price! 
Silver Ice Metallic 2017 Chevrolet 
Silverado 1500 LT 4D Crew Cab ANTI 
LOCKING BRAKES brakes, Alloy rims, 
Compass, Electronic Stability Control, 
Emergency communication system, 
Heated door mirrors … ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2005 Acura Mdx Touring Suv in San 
Diego, CA. Features: Air conditioned, 
Electric windows, Power Locks, 
Powered steering, Tilt Wheel, AM/
FM CD, Satellite, AM/FM CD/DVD, 
Immobilizer, Dual Front Air bags, Side 
Airbags, Active Seatbelts, Passenger 
airbag Sensor, All Wheel ANTI 
LOCKING BRAKES … ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Peleton Bike-No Flaws in San Diego, 
CA. I have a fourteen month old Peloton Bike for sale. It’s been an awe -
some experience, but we are moving and need to sell. This bike has been used approx 50 times and has been in my exercise room and is in terrific condition … ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Recumbent trike (Oceanside) in San 
Diego, CA. Sun Tadpole SE delta trike. Chrome Moly frame, 24 speeds, disk brakes. came with front disk brakes, added disk brake to rear with new cassette hub laced in. Bike will go very fast and rear brake is a must for safety. 20” alloy wheels, stainless steel … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Trek 1000 (Carmel Mountain Ranch) 
in San Diego, CA. Stock Matrix rims, 
derailleurs, downtube shifters, and 
brakes. Nearly new RibMo tires and 
carbon handlebar (recently wrapped, 
nice and soft). Lots of rubber left 
on the brake pads. Paint is chipped 
in a few places from normal use … 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
INTERNSHIPS
Marketing Assistant - Entry Level - We 
are a fast-growing online marketing 
company looking for an enthusiastic 
Marketing Assistant to help fill the 
needs of our Marketing Department. You should have a can-do attitude and be able to work well in a team environment. Candidates must have experience in marketing with web -
sites, social media … ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Claim Rep Trainee Outside Property 
in Denver, CO - This is an entry level 
position that requires satisfacto -
ry completion of required training 
to advance to Claim Professional Outside Property CAT position. This position is intended to develop skills for  … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Branded Cards Analytic Associate in 
Wilmington, DE - Making decisions based on data that enables growth and progress and anticipating what our customers need to make them feel optimistic about what’s next is at the forefront of our philosophy at Citi … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEED
Triton Food PantryTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 2pm-5pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 2pm-5pmSPRING 2019Women’s Tennis Served Season-
Ending Loss by Azusa Pacific 
The no. 29 UC San Diego’s 
women’s tennis team (12–8) 
couldn’t take down no. 23 Azusa Pacific University (15-8), losing 4–3 in a tightly 
contested NCAA tournament 
preliminary on Tuesday, May 14 at 2 p.m. at the UCSD Northview Tennis Courts. The 
match came down to a final 
three-set showdown between UCSD’s Ashley Chao and APU’s Petra Ivankovic, but a narrow victory for Ivankovic in the third set ended the Tritons’ season, head coach Liz LaPlante’s 40th at the helm. 
The match, held at UCSD’s 
Northview Tennis Courts, was 
the third between the teams 
this season, as they had split their earlier two meetings. The day started out strong 
for the Tritons, with two decisive doubles set victories to capture the first point. In 
the first, the senior Ashley 
Chao and junior Becky Chou took down the Cougars’ Kara Hinton and Jacky Wagner 6–2; in the second, UCSD seniors Madison Hale and Alexandra Weil handled the APU duo of Anna Savchenko and April Wong 6–3.
The Cougars would equalize 
in the first singles match as 
Wong defeated Triton redshirt junior Chloe Wight (6–3, 6–1) After a 6–3, 6–3 victory by each team—UCSD’s Shweta Kumar defeating APU’s Mikayla Rinker and Wagner beating UCSD junior Valeria Corral—the match revolved around the final three singles 
matches; those matches would deliver in full, all going the full three sets.
Next, Chou overcame a 3–6 
loss in the first set to defeat 
Hinton, winning the last two sets 6–0 and 6–3 to put UCSD just one win away from a trip to Altamonte Springs, Florida for the round of 16. They wouldn’t 
get that win in the next match though, as Savchenko avenged her earlier doubles loss to Weil, winning 7–6 (7–3), 3–6, 6–2 to 
place the fate of both teams on 
the only match yet to finish.
In the final match of the day, 
Chao faced o ff against APU’s 
star in Ivankovic, ranked 25th by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association— the only player on either side ranked in the top 75. The first set took a 
lengthy tiebreaker to decide, with Ivankovic taking it 7–6 (10-8). Chao rallied with a 6–3 second-set victory and held a 5–3 lead in the final 
set. But she didn’t win another game from there on out, as Ivankovic rattled o ff a four-
game run to win the match. For APU, that meant a May 
22nd date with the University 
of Central Oklahoma in the NCAA round of 16; for UCSD, it meant the end of its season.
The wire-to-wire loss ended a streaky, but ultimately successful year for UCSD. After an 0–3 start, the Tritons 
won four in a row in late February; similarly, a fter 
sitting at 4–5 midway through the season, they pulled o ff 
eight straight victories before losing three straight to close 
out the season. The 12–8 finish 
is UCSD’s fourth straight 
winning season and 35th in 40 seasons under LaPlante.  
“If we have to lose this is 
the way to do it, ” LaPlante said in a postgame press conference a fter the match. 
“Unfortunately it didn’t go our way today, it was such a fight and we’re happy with our 
season. ”
The APU loss was also 
the last match for the three 
graduating seniors: Ashley 
Chao, Madison Hale, and Alexandra Weil. Chao’s doubles victory with Chou was her 100th victory in dual matches in her career; she closes out her collegiate career 44–38 in singles matches. The team of Hale and Weil also graduate with 62 doubles victories together, with Weil also finishing with 48 singles 
wins, the most of any active Triton.
BY Praveen Nair
Staff writer 
pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.eduSoftball Advances to DII 
Tournament Championship
After a rough start to their playo ff 
campaign, the UC San Diego so ftball 
team battled its way through the NCAA 
Division II West Region, taking four of 
five games in their sub-regional round at 
Triton Ballpark and sweeping the best-
of-three super-regional round against the top-seeded Concordia University Irvine Eagles on the road with 9–1 and 4–3 wins to advance to the NCAA Division II Championship Tournament, which is played at the Metropolitan State University of Denver. 
The team flexed their o ffensive muscle 
in game one, smacking 8 hits and walking 3 times on their way to victory. Despite the lopsided o ffensive output 
in the first game of the super regional, 
sophomore le ft-handed starter Robyn 
Wampler was the real star of the game for the UCSD Tritons. Wampler shut out the opposition for the first five innings of the 
game before finally surrendering a run in 
the final inning of the ballgame.
While the first game of the tournament 
saw the Tritons put up a 6-run sixth inning to make the game far out of reach, the second game ended up being much closer. In the bottom of the seventh inning of game two, the game was tied up: 3–3. UCSD was at bat with bases loaded and 2 outs. Junior right fielder 
Mikaila Reyes stepped up to bat, knowing that she had a shot at winning the game. When the pitch came, Reyes hit it hard to left center field. As she rounded first 
base, she turned back to see her team climbing out of the dugout to celebrate. With that hit, Reyes sent junior shortstop Danica Kazako ff home, giving the Tritons a 4–3 lead and ending the game. UCSD had won the NCAA Division II West Super Regionals and punched their ticket to the NCAA Division II National Championship.
After the marathon super regional 
round finale, head coach Patti Gerckens 
let out a sigh of relief in the post-game press conference. “I’m glad there are only 
seven innings in a game … [both teams] 
kept fighting and grinding. ”
While the biggest moment of the super 
regional was Reyes’ walk-o ff hit to send 
the team to Denver, the entire team was beaming when they hoisted their West Region championship trophy over their heads at Triton Ballpark on Friday night, to the joy of the few hundred faithful UCSD fans in attendance. 
Outside the walk-o ff hit, the 
Tritons had many stellar individual performances in the second game. Senior third baseman Maddy Lewis and 
Kazako ff both contributed 1 hit and 1 
run apiece. In addition, Reyes had 2 hits 
and 2 RBIs, which included the final 
single to le ft center field that closed out 
the series. 
In the post-game press conference, 
Reyes described her feelings as she stepped up to bat for the final hit. “I 
was seeing the ball really well … and I wanted retribution to end the game. ” Reyes was also quick to credit the e ffort 
of her teammates, saying, “It would have meant nothing if nobody else had gotten on [base] before me. ”
The team will take on the Augustana 
University Vikings, the No. 3 seed in the tournament, on Thursday, May 23 at 6:30 
p.m. CST in what is sure to be a battle. BY Wesley Xiao & Jack Dorfman
Senior Staff writer & Sports Editor
Wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 20, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Azusa Pacific NCAA DII West 
Super-Regional
at Glade Springs, WV, NCAA DII Championships Round 1 
NCAA DII Championships
at Augustana, SD, NCAA DII ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
M Golf
Track & Field
Softball1PM
ALL DAY
ALL DAY
5:30PM5/24
5/20
5/23
5/23
Cowbells rang, bleachers 
trembled and UC San Diego took 
three of four games over the course of two days of doubleheaders in the NCAA Division II West Sub-Regional at Triton Ballpark on Friday, May 17 and Saturday, May 18 to move on to the NCAA Division II Super-Regional series.
To earn the sub-regional victory, 
the UCSD Tritons had to best both the Montana State University, Billings Y ellowjackets and the Point Loma Nazarene Sea Lions, playing twice on both Friday and Saturday to secure their spot in the next round of the playo ff tournament. 
“It was a long two days, ” said 
head coach Eric Newman a fter the 
clinching Saturday night game., “I’m really proud of the way the guys grinded it out. ”
In the team’s first game of the 
tournament, a fter trailing 4–0 
for the majority of the game, UCSD took down MSU, Billings by the final score of 7–5 at 
Triton Ballpark on Friday, May 17 at 3:30 p.m., eliminating the visiting Y ellowjackets from the NCAA Division II West Regional tournament, and marking the beginning of a stretch of four games in 48 hours for the hosting Tritons. 
The loudest applause of the entire 
tournament, the final out of the last 
game notwithstanding, came when the UCSD so ftball team walked 
into Triton Ballpark hoisting its 
sparkling NCAA Division II West 
Region championship trophy, but that wasn’t because the weekend’s baseball games were devoid of excitement. 
In the MSU, Billings game, a 
7-run bottom of the 6th inning saw all of the UCSD runs cross home plate, with redshirt sophomore first baseman Blake Baumgartner 
getting the scoring started with a 2-run line drive single to left  
field with the bases loaded. A fter 
Baumgartner’s single, the Tritons tied the game at 4–4 with a double off the very top of the wall in 
left field o ff the bat of junior left  
fielder Alex Anthanacio on a 3-2 
pitch, prompting an MSU Billings pitching change. 
Directly following the win 
against the Y ellowjackets, UCSD began to prepare for what would be a best of three series against Point Loma Nazarene which began that Friday night and lasted all the way until almost 11 p.m. on Saturday night.
In game one of this series, the 
Tritons weathered a 4-run fourth inning from the Sea Lions with 3-run and 6-run innings of their own, ultimately taking advantage of walks, errors, and wild pitches in order to score 11 runs on 13 hits, beating Point Loma Nazarene 11–4. For UCSD, the o ffense was led 
by redshirt junior second baseman Keenan Brigman. Brigman had a 4-5 night at the plate and scored two runs for the hosting Tritons, and his hustle double to lead o ff 
the top of the sixth inning sparked a 3-run sixth inning that tied the game and shi fted the momentum 
into the home dugout. 
“I was just trying to work and try 
to put a ball hard in play, ” Brigman said after the game, “When I first looked out of the box I saw the le ft 
fielder not working too hard to get 
to the ball very quickly so I decided right then and there I was going to try and take two and thankfully it worked out. ”
After the game Point Loma 
Nazarene head coach Justin James, former UCSD pitching coach from the prior two seasons, was frustrated by his team’s mistakes. “It was just not good baseball, we had a couple of plays I thought were a little lazy, ” James said a fter 
the game, “Good teams are going to expose that and that’s exactly what happened. ”
In game two of the best-of-
three series between Point Loma Nazarene and UCSD on Saturday, May 18, walks, errors and wild 
pitches ruled the day once again. 
Both teams had their fair share of important hits, but the 8–7 
thriller between the no. 2 Tritons 
and no. 3 Sea Lions came down to whichever team made the least costly mistakes. 
The game, which began at 3:30 
pm at Triton Ballpark, promised a 
spirited matchup, as Point Loma 
Nazarene had to win to secure a chance at a winner take all game against UCSD later that day. And win they did. The Sea Lions 
overcame a rough day in the field, 
especially for their junior shortstop Miguel Cazares, making use of 12 hits and 8 walks to put the game just out of the home team’s reach. 
Point Loma Nazarene 
demonstrated just how badly they wanted to win right out of the gate, with junior second baseman Travis Takata launching a home run far over the right field wall on 
the first pitch of the game from 
UCSD sophomore starter Noah Conlon to leap out to an early 1–0 lead. Conlon, a righty who had just 8 starts this season, would allow a second run to cross the plate in the second inning, with the eighth and ninth hitters in the Sea Lions’ order knocking back-to-back extra-base hits to take a 2–0 lead.
The Tritons weren’t done 
fighting yet, launching an o ffensive 
of their own in the bottom of the second inning that saw 3 runs score and the lead switch back in 
favor of the home team, with three 
straight hard-hit balls finding the 
outfield grass through the 5-6 hole, 
two of which Cazares misplayed, and a pair of walks helping to give the hosting team a 3–2 lead. After a quiet third inning, the 
back and forth battle that would last the remainder of the contest began. UCSD padded their lead to 4–2 with a wall scraper of a home run o ff the bat of senior 
right fielder R.J. Prince to the 
opposite field. In response, Point 
Loma Nazarene knocked in a run of its own in the top of the fifth 
on a double that hugged the third base line by senior in fielder Colby 
Kaneshiro, the hottest hitter in the 
sub-regional tournament, to bring 
the score back to within a run at 4–3.
The Tritons followed this up in 
the bottom of the fifth, with junior 
left fielder Alex Athanacio pulling 
a no-doubter to le ft field to put his 
team up 5–3 on the 100th pitch of 
sophomore starting pitcher Nathan 
Garkow. 
While this may have seemed like 
the dagger, the game was far from over in the eyes of the Sea Lions. Their bats and pitching livened 
up as the UCSD dugout and fans quieted down. Point Loma Nazarene’s righty junior reliever  Jerry Quemada shut down the potent Triton lineup for 3 and ⅔ 
innings, striking out 5 on his way to the win. 
But the bats were the truly 
important piece for the Sea Lions. All of the rest of their runs came in the top of the seventh inning o ff of 
UCSD junior reliever Ted Stuka, a 39th round pick of the Baltimore Orioles in the 2018 MLB Dra ft. 
Stuka, a 6’7 inch junior right-hander, came into the game in the top of the fifth in relief of Conlon 
and immediately struck out the first batter he faced. He started o ff 
the sixth inning with a punchout as 
well, but the seventh inning would 
not go to plan. 
With runners on first and 
second and one out for Point Loma Nazarene, a single up the middle by the slumping junior out field Micah 
Pries, who had been hitless in his last 8 at-bats with 5 strikeouts, cut the deficit to just one at 5–4. Pries 
took second base on defensive indifference to put runners on 
second and third for the red-hot Kaneshiro, but before the righty slugger could drive the pair in, Stuka uncorked a wild pitch to tie the game at 5–5 and eventually walked him. 
With runners on the corners, 
Stuka strikes out the Sea Lions’ five-hitter to secure the second out of the inning before things spun further out of control. A wild pitch to sophomore first baseman Justin 
Ledgerwood scored Pries from third base, and moved Kaneshiro to third, and Ledgerwood was able to drive him in with a single up the middle, putting his team on top 7–5. Stuka would strikeout the final batter of the inning, but the 
damage had already been done. 
Point Loma Nazarene added 
an insurance run in the top of the 
ninth, with the only thing keeping 
the Sea Lions from adding a second run being a stellar throw to the plate from Athanacio in le ft field. 
Point Loma Nazarene never 
relinquished that lead though, even when UCSD threatened heavily in the bottom of the ninth. All 
with one out, the Tritons knocked 
a pair of singles and loaded the bases with a walk to bring up Athanacio with the bases loaded. Quemada would punch out the heavy-hitting le ft fielder but would 
walk Brigman to bring in a run and make the score 8–6. Another error by Cazares at shortstop kept the bases loaded and made the score 8–7, but redshirt freshman pinch hitter Logan White popped out to the same shortstop to end the rally and the game. 
After this game evened the series, 
the Tritons and Sea Lions were on even footing for the sub-regional finale, with Point Loma Nazarene 
designated the home team for this night game thanks to having won the coin toss the day before despite the sub-regional being played at UCSD’s home field. For game four 
of the sub-regional and the third game of the series between the two local rivals, neither side had much 
pitching le ft. 
For coach James and the Sea 
Lions, their pitching sta ff had been 
almost completely depleted over 
the course of their four games from Thursday, Friday and from 
the earlier Saturday game, but California Collegiate Athletic Association Coach of the Y ear Eric Newman and the Tritons still had two of their top arms fresh for the sub-regional finale in 
junior pitcher Luke Mattson and senior pitcher Kyle Lucke, and the dynamic duo carried the team over the hump and on to Azusa Paci fic. 
Mattson came into the game in 
the bottom of the sixth inning, with his team having just put up a run in the top of the sixth to bring the score to 5–4 in favor of Point Loma Nazarene. UCSD, despite jumping out to a 3–0 lead in the top of the first inning thanks to a monstrous 
home run by redshirt sophomore catcher Aaron Kim, had found themselves down 5–3 at the end of the fifth inning, thanks to 3three 
doubles and 2two unearned runs from a 2-out throwing error by Brigman. 
After having seen his team 
respond with a run of their own 
the half- inning later, Mattson 
poured on his own fuel to the energetic fire that was the Tritons’ 
dugout. Over his 3three innings in the game, the righty struck out 4four batters and allowed just 2two hits. All the while, the UCSD bats were coming alive once again. 
The comeback kids responded 
to Mattson’s two-strikeout sixth 
inning with a three-run outburst in the top of the seventh inning, with a home run from CCAA Most Valuable Player sophomore shortstop Shay Whitcomb, an error that scored one, and a bases-loaded walk to provide an insurance run that drove the score up to 7–5 Tritons, where it would remain for the rest of the night. 
After having been set up for the 
save by Mattson and the UCSD offense, it was Lucke’s turn to do 
his part to send the Tritons on to the next round. In his first and last 
appearance in the sub-regional round, the 6’6 inch right-hander punished the Sea Lions with a fresh arm and killer fastball, setting down Point Loma Nazarene’s second, third and fourth hitters, the latter two on strikeouts, to end their season. 
After their customary dog pile, 
the weekend’s most consistent hitter in Baumgartner discussed the overall team e ffort and grind of 
the sub-regional series. “ . ”
Baumgartner finished up the 
four-game sub-regional with 8 hits, 4 runs scored, and 5 RBI, with his best performance coming when the team needed him most, as he collected four hits and a walk in five plate appearances in the 
sub-regional finale. 
The team will take on the Asuza 
Pacific Cougars at Asuza Paci fic in 
a best of three series slated to begin at noon on Friday. 
BY Jack Dorfman
Sports Editor 
Jack Dorfman jdorfman200@ucsd.eduBaseball knocks of Point Loma Nazarene to 
advance to the West-Super Regional Tritons Grind Through Sub-Regional with Three Weekend Wins  
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN
