Soda & Swine, the eatery set to occupy 
the Porter’s Pub space in the Old Student 
Center, will finally open its doors in mid-
March after slowdowns in the restaurant build-out 
process delayed the launch by six to eight months, 
Consortium Holdings founder Arsalun Tafazoli 
informed the UCSD Guardian. No set opening date was included last March in the announcement 
of Soda & Swine’s coming arrival on campus, but 
according to University Centers Director Sharon Van Bruggen, Soda & Swine was expected to have been in 
business by now.  
The Soda & Swine at UC San Diego will be the 
third iteration of the restaurant, with two locations 
already operating in North Park and Liberty Station. All three are owned and developed by Consortium 
Holdings. 
Also responsible for UTC’s Raised by Wolves, 
Consortium Holdings seeks to establish “public gathering spaces” as opposed to standard restaurants 
and bars, and it is the advanced design required by this concept in combination with university 
bureaucratic processes to which Tafazoli attributes 
the delay. 
“It’s never a single issue, but we try to do things 
that are a little bit more developed on the design side, ” Tafazoli said. “I think our approach in conjunction with the campus process and bureaucracy can kind of 
be at [odds] a little bit. For us, it’s a new experience, 
but I think as in anything, whenever something is regulated heavily, it can slow things down a little bit. ”
One example that Tafazoli offered of a point of 
contention between Consortium Holding’s design for the space and the university’s bureaucracy was 
the inclusion of a visible bar, particularly in the outside patio area. According to Tafazoli, while 
Soda & Swine was intended to be one of the vendors 
on campus designated to serve alcohol, the way in 
which alcohol is served is an issue. 
Tafazoli explained that negotiating and earning 
approval over particular aspects of the layout, such as the bar, meant that the actual construction for the restaurant buildout began later than expected.
“There are just a lot of approvals that have to 
happen for things to kind of move forward, ” Tafazoli said. “ As we continued, we wanted to do things to 
push the boundaries a little bit. We definitely try 
to do things that are a little more interesting and 
developed. We want to bring a different dynamic that 
might not necessarily exist on campus, and campus says, ‘We want it to be something that’s a little bit 
more progressive but not really, and you’ve got to 
stay in this box. ’ It’s just been a kind of a push and pull. Getting approved plans took much longer than 
we anticipated ... construction started much later 
than we anticipated. ”
The build-out is currently in the infrastructure 
phase, meaning that the construction is focused on the “bones” of the restaurant, such as power cables running underground. The finishes, when the 
restaurant actually puts in the unique elements of its 
design, have yet to be started. 
Staffing for the restaurant will begin in February, 
during which Soda & Swine plans to hire qualified students. Tafazoli and Van Bruggen both agree that no major issues with the building have interfered 
with the build-out process. 
Van Bruggen and University Centers Advisory 
Board Chair Alex Morrow highlighted the two existing Soda & Swines’ ability to create social 
Transportation Services 
announced in a campuswide email on Jan. 21 that the Arriba Shuttle route 
will cease to exist beginning on Feb. 1, with the San Diego Metropolitan 
Transit System instead adding buses 
to the SuperLoop route, which runs along the same streets. According to Rob Schupp, a public relations representative at MTS, the frequency 
of the SuperLoop will increase to 
every five minutes during peak hours and will expand its hours to 
5:45 a.m. until midnight. 
Schupp claims that consolidating 
the routes is believed to increase both the frequency and the hours 
of service of the buses. According to Director of Transportation Services at UC San Diego Josh Kavanagh, having a single agency controlling 
the scheduling and dispatching of 
buses is also expected to make the buses run more efficiently.
“The Arriba Shuttle is duplicative 
of the SuperLoop, ” Schupp said. “Combining the routes made sense 
from an operational standpoint from 
both agencies. ” VOLUME 52, ISSUE 14  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 28, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Chancellor Khosla 
Under Investigation for Bullying
The UC Office of the President 
has not kept the reporting parties 
informed on the progress of the 
ongoing investigation.
TRANSPORTATION
BY Rebecca Camacho
Senior staff Writer
SuperLoop Will Run Every Five Minutes After Aribba Cancelation
A student lounges on a table at the A.S. Make Art Event.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Joshua Ben-EscherUC San Diego’s Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla has been accused of bullying former female staff members. A state-
appointed UC Office of the President 
investigator is currently reviewing 
the case, conducting preliminary 
interviews regarding professional interaction with Khosla. 
Since the investigations began, 
three women have since come forward to speak with the investigator: UCSD 
San Diego’s former Chief Alumni 
Officer Stephanie Barry,, former 
Executive Director of Special Events 
and Protocol Judy Lane, and the former Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel and San Diego attorney specializing in harassment 
and discrimination cases Kristina 
Larsen.
In addition to being a former 
UC staff member, Larsen is legally 
representing Barry and Lane. There 
is also an anonymous fourth person 
who filed claims against Chancellor 
Khosla. It remains unclear whether 
Larsen is exclusively representing the 
two women who have gone on the 
record or if she is also the attorney 
for the other unnamed individual in question.    
According to Larsen, UCOP has 
not kept the reporting women updated on the investigation’s process.
“I would be happy to talk with 
you, but the Office of the President 
is not telling me or my clients the 
status of the investigation so not sure I can speak to that. ” Larsen said in 
response to an interview request by the 
UCSD Guardian. “But send me your questions and I’ll answer what I can. ” 
Since receiving this initial 
statement, Larsen declined to continue 
any communication or respond to any 
further inquiries.
Meanwhile, the UCOP has not 
confirmed any development of the investigation. It is also doing its own review of an internal complaint and is working with the investigator, Director 
of Media Relations of UCOP Claire 
Doan said to the Guardian. 
“The University of California 
has robust processes in place for investigating all matters of compliance, ” Doan said. 
Outside of the UC system, the case 
has already garnered coverage from 
local press. 
The San Diego Union-Tribune 
first commented on the nature of the 
investigation, and the Los Angeles 
Times recently published an article 
calling the dilemma “UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep Khosla: Blunt-
spoken visionary or belittling bully?”
Prior to appointment of his current 
post in 2012, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla served as the former Dean of 
the College of Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania 
for eight years, where he began as an 
Assistant Professor in 1986. By Lauren  Hol t   Managing EditorCAMPUS
Soda & Swine Will Allegedly Open in MarchPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
Student workers 
employeed by the 
university’s Housing, 
Dining, and Hospitality  
are overworked, 
understa ffed, and 
underpaid. 
CLUBS  AND  F ACEBOOK
BALANCING  ACTBAD   FOR   MEMBERS
MAINTAINING  WORK  AND  SCHOOLOpinion,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE ,   Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“... even if one is not 
a U.S. citizen, he or 
she is still affected 
as much, if not more, 
by the legislation 
pushed for by elected 
officials, which is 
directed at citizens 
residing under the 
same jurisdiction.”MONDAY
 H 73 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 54
TUESDAY
H 72 L 52
THURSDAY
H 61 L 49
VOTING RIGHTS.............4
CHICAGO HIPHOP ..........9
CLASSICS......................11
CONVOY STREET..........12
M. BASKETBALL...........16UC SYSTEM
Jacob Sutherland
Noncitizen Voting
PAGE 4The Arriba Shuttle route will stop running as of February 1, and more buses will be added by MTS instead.
BY  Tanaya Sawant
Staff Writer
See SHUTTLES,  page 3See SODA & SWINE,  page 3THE PLIGHT OF THE 
HDH WORKER
Features, page 6
Rebecca Camcho  rlcamach@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TIRED By Michi Sora
Friday, January 11
2:33 a.m. Impounded DrugsRSO requested an officer to confiscate 
marijuana found on a student at 
Goldberg Hall.
Marijuana Impounded
Saturday, January 12
12:18 a.m. Excessive Alcohol
Male found lying next to bus bench 
near North Torrey Pines Road and 
unable to stand or walk without 
assistance.Transported to Hospital
12:27 a.m. Drunk in Public
Y oung adult male, possibly intoxicated, swaying back and forth while walking along Voigt Drive.
Information Only
Time Unknown - Vandalism
Graffiti inside elevator at Brennan 
Hall, damage $100 Report Taken1:23 a.m. Suspicious Person
Reporting party felt unsafe about 
a subject near Village West that 
approached them to complain about 
illegal immigrants. Field Interview
4:28 p.m. Animal Call
Dead mouse under pantry door in Sixth College Apartments.Referred to Other UCSD Department 
‐ EH&S
8:05 p.m. Petty Theft
Stolen parking signs from Lot P309, 
loss $250 Report Taken 
Sunday, January 13
8:14 a.m. DisturbanceReporting party stated he was being 
harassed by parking, despite having a 
valid handicap placard in Lot P751. 
Information Only12:01 Suspicious Person
Subject in a wheelchair panhandling and slowing traffic at La Jolla Village 
Drive.
Field Interview
8:14 p.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting party was being blackmailed through social media.Information Only
9:34 p.m. UC Policy Violation
Student shining laser at Tioga Hall.
Referred to Student Conduct
Monday, January 143:12 p.m. Suspicious Person
Male seen throwing rocks at vehicles passing by Osler Parking Structure.Unable to Locate
3:47 p.m. Fire Alarm
Alarm was activated due to burnt food 
in Sixth College’s Pepper Canyon.
Referred to Other UCSD Department
Tuesday, January 15
4:01 a.m. Suspicious Person
Female with a broom banging on 
doors at Galbraith Hall.
Checks OK8:54 a.m. Petty Theft
Report of food gone missing from 
office two nights in a row from Galbraith Hall, no criminal report desired. 
Verbal Warning Issued
11:45 a.m. Found Property
Round of ammunition found outside 
Matthews Apartments. Report Taken2:14 p.m. Trespass
Roommate’s boyfriend staying in 
Marshall suite without permission. Field Interview
Wednesday, Januar y 16
12:09 a.m. Psych SubjectMale student with suicidal ideations at 
Roger’s Market.Transported to Hospital
9:52 a.m. Trespass
Adult male transient seen in women’s 
restroom at Stein Clinical Research 
Building.Stay Away Order Issued4:55 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Center Hall, Loss $625 
Logged Event
Thursday, January 17
4:28 p.m. Citizen Contact
Subject reporting possible fraudulent 
tutors. Service Provided
Friday, January 18
1:46 a.m. DUI 
Suspect drove on Sun God Lawn.
Closed by Adult Arrest5:00 p.m. Stolen VehicleMotorcycle stolen from Hopkins 
Parking Structure.
Report Taken
5:44 p.m. Vandalism
Unknown suspect(s) threw rocks at LED parking indicator sign at Osler 
Parking, damage $3,000 
Report Taken
Saturday, January 19
12:50 a.m. Welfare Check
Three females vomiting in bushes at 
Keeling Apartments.
Referred to Student Conduct3:59 a.m. Excessive AlcoholIntoxicated female passed out at 
Douglas Hall and difficult to awaken. 
Transported to Hospital
Sunday, January 20
4:15 p.m. Gas / Water / Sewer Leak
Odor of gas coming from parking lot. Referred To Other Department
Monday, January 21
1:14 p.m. Welfare Check
Male seen yelling and walking into 
traffic at Gilman Drive.
Service Provided
Tuesday, January 22
1:43 p.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting party at CA Institute for 
Telecom and Info Tech’s social media 
accounts were hacked, no threats or loss of money. 
Information Only
Wednesday, Januar y 23
9:57 a.m. Fire
Golf cart caught on fire at Double 
Peak K8 School.
Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Fire Department
2:41 p.m. Medical Aid
Male with anaphylaxis to nuts. 
Transported to Hospital
Thursday, January 24
2:35 a.m. Disturbance / Psych SubjectNear Mahaila Avenue, female upset 
because of the government shutdown. 
Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Police Department 7:55 p.m. Vandalism
At Price Center Ballroom West, both 
wheels of a bicycle were removed and 
thrown to the side, loss $2000 
Online Report
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
I’ve been parking there for two years, goshdarnit.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Rowena Ma
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Schupp explained that in efforts 
to avoid overcrowding, a minimum 
of two MTS buses will be added 
and standby busses will be ready for additional services if overcrowding 
is present. UCSD has provided 
Arriba ridership data to MTS that can be incorporated into its planning 
service, Kavanagh told the UCSD 
Guardian.
Transportation Services also 
believes that replacing the Arriba shuttle will give the campus the option to redirect their resources.“This move will free up more 
buses for Triton Transit to focus on 
our core mission of intracampus 
and intercampus transportation, ” Kavanagh explained. “When the 
Mesa Housing expansion comes 
online next year, we will need every bit of that capacity. ”
“I personally think that the 
negotiation between UC San Diego and MTS will provide 
more accessibility for students,” 
Associated Students President, Kiara Gomez said. “More students will be able to make it to campus with the increased capacity. ”
As the Arriba route stopped 
running after 10 p.m., students were forced  to find another way 
home if they stayed on campus late, 
Gomez explained. With this coming change extending hours to midnight, 
students will have the opportunity 
to stay on campus longer without needing to arrange for a ride home.
Students using the shuttle seem 
to have a differing opinion.
“I think the SuperLoop is already crowded, and transportation is already inflexible for some students, 
so dissolving the Arriba Shuttle into 
MTS only exacerbates the problem, ” said shuttle rider and Sixth College 
junior David Huang. 
“The Arriba Shuttle is definitely 
the faster option for me because it skips a lot of the SuperLoop stops. 
Without the Arriba Shuttle, my journey to campus will be more 
crowded and take longer because 
of the extra stops, ” John Muir College junior Aishwarya Kudrimoti explained.
This past year, Gomez helped 
charter the Transportation Advisory Committee, which was created to help engage student leaders 
and administrators to improve 
transportation for students. Students can get involved with transportation 
discussions by attending the 
biweekly Transportation Advisory Committee meetings.connection and their good food but stated that Consortium Holdings 
appears to be moving slowly with 
their construction project. 
Based on the Guardian’s 
observations, the construction site frequently appears to have no workers or a handful at a time working on the 
project. Tafazoli has no knowledge 
of how many workers are at the 
site for how many days a week, 
and the subcontractors responsible for the actual construction could 
not be reached to provide the work schedule on the site by the time this 
article went to print. The online 
version will be updated once those 
numbers are obtained.
Morrow noted that a number 
of students have expressed dissatisfaction with how long Soda & Swine has taken to open.
“ A lot of commotion about the 
construction has surfaced, especially 
on social media; it seems like 
students are upset, ” Morrow told the Guardian. “Some of the UCAB 
representatives have expressed that their constituents are also worried 
about the opening date. As an 
executive member of UCAB, I am 
in the process of reaching out to Consortium Holdings and trying to 
get them to come to our UCAB 
meeting so we can understand the delays and express student concerns. ” 
Tafazoli, however, believes the 
delays will be insignificant in the 
long-term and that once Soda & 
Swine launches and students are able to see the final outcome of the 
project, they will be more forgiving.“We have a longer-term vision 
and are really hoping it can be a campus institution for the next 10 
to 20 years, so six to eight months in context isn’t as important to us if 
it means we can bring the full vision 
to fruition, ” Tafazoli stated. “We are spending close to $2 million on the 
project (to give you perspective, 
the average [food and beverage] 
operator on campus spends about 
$250,000) to hopefully give students a place they can really take pride in 
and set a better tone for operators coming onto the UCSD campus. I 
know that had we been open by now, 
it would have sacrificed the soul of 
the project over the long term, and that’s just not what we do. ”
Van Bruggen noted that 
University Centers plans to continue asking Consortium Holdings to 
increase the pace on their buildout. 
Students Have Voiced Disappointment in the Delays, Prompting UCAB to Call for a Meeting with Consortium Holdings
Kudrimoti: The Removal of  the Arriba Route Will Lengthen my Commute Because It Skips a Lot of  the MTS Bus Stops▶ SODA & SWINE , from page 1
▶ SHUTTLES , from page 1Lauren Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Tanaya sawant  tsawant@ucsd.edu
Happy Week Four!
Good  Luck  On  Midterms4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Voting is one of the fundamental rights in the United 
States that only came about through centuries of blood, 
sweat, and protest. Despite the enormous amount of progress that has been made on both the national and state level, voter disenfranchisement still remains a reality 
for the 531,200 noncitizen residents living in San Diego 
County. However, if San Diego is to be a champion in fostering a politically engaged community while also creating an environment that does not leave any resident’s voice unheard, the county must extend enfranchisement to all residents, regardless of citizenship status.
 Noncitizen resident voter enfranchisement 
remains a contentious issue across the country. After San 
Francisco passed a measure allowing noncitizen parents 
to vote in school board elections, the validity of granting noncitizen residents a fundamental citizen’s privilege became the center of a moral and legal debate. However, according to the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, noncitizen residents are only legally barred from participating in federal elections; state and lower-level elections are up to their respective entities. 
So far, San Francisco and a handful of cities in Maryland 
have been the only ones to extend enfranchisement to the non-citizens residing in their jurisdictions.
 However, even if one is not a U.S. citizen, he or 
she is still affected as much, if not more, by the legislation pushed for by elected officials, which is directed at citizens residing under the same jurisdiction. Everyone who resides under the rule of any given elected office should have a say in who fills that position. Furthermore, by enfranchising non-citizen residents, San Diego would have greater input in the legislation and measures governing the county while 
also gaining a better understanding of what everyone who 
calls San Diego home actually wants to see accomplished on a governmental level.
This is why San Diego County should extend voting 
rights to its 531,200 noncitizen residents in all elections from the county level downward. Noncitizen residents would be able to vote in races for the county board, various mayorships around the county, and numerous measures affecting all residents on both a county and city level. Eligibility to register to vote for noncitizen residents would only involve a prospective voter’s legal address and date of birth. This is the same standard currently in place in San Francisco.
 Considering that San Diego County is unique 
in being both an ideologically conservative region of the 
state and home to one of the largest sanctuary cities in 
the country, backlash to this type of legal proposal would likely be raised under the notion that it would enable undocumented immigrants to vote. While this is true, undocumented immigrants only account for 32 percent of noncitizens living in the region. Rather than working to only enfranchise a specific demographic that has become the target of xenophobia, this law would empower the 
thousands of noncitizen students, working professionals, 
and undocumented immigrants who call San Diego their permanent home.
 Noncitizen resident suffrage is one of a handful of 
remaining voting rights issues to be resolved in the United States. San Diego County has the unique opportunity to follow San Francisco’s example and be at the forefront of solution efforts for this contemporary debate. By 
enfranchising noncitizen residents, San Diego County will 
not only be allowing a larger portion of the population to have a say in the laws that govern it, but it will also stand at the justice end of the moral arc of the nation.Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Jacob Sutherland   jsuther@ucsd.eduNon-Citizen Suffrage: Next Step to a More 
Progressive San Diego
By: Jacob Sutherland // Senior Sta ff Writer
“... even if one is not a U.S. 
citizen, he or she is still affected 
as much, if not more, by the 
legislation pushed for by elected 
officials, which is directed at 
citizens residing under the same 
jurisdiction.”See FACEBOOK, page 5Clubs on Campus Must Stop Making their 
Members Use Facebook
Geena Roberts
Senior Staff Writer  -  1,245,674 likes
It’s Week 1 of Fall Quarter, and amidst the aesthetic fliers, catchy rush slogans, and 
smiling faces on Library Walk, four words repeatedly slice through the air: “Follow 
us on Facebook.” After a while, the message is clear: many clubs at UC San Diego 
rely heavily on Facebook to distribute information. Thus students without a Facebook 
are out of luck in the long term; that rush flier only gives the necessary information for a week out. To these clubs, Facebook seems to efficiently relay information to 
prospective and current members. However, Facebook has many serious flaws. To 
provide a more inclusive club, increased opportunity for prospective and present 
club members to thrive mentally and emotionally, and better organization, all campus organizations should add or shift to disseminating information through alternative 
channels that function without the drawbacks of Facebook. 
For starters, clubs should recognize and care about the valid reasons of personal 
well-being that keep some students from having or wanting a Facebook account. 
These reasons should supersede the efficiency clubs feel they gain from their heavy 
reliance on Facebook to communicate information. Currently, there is growing 
evidence, including a study from the Royal Society for Public Health, that increased Facebook use correlates with an increased deterioration of one’s well-being; one’s 
mental health, physical health, and more suffer as a result. If that was not enough, a 
separate study reaffirmed these results. These studies found that the effect could not 
be attributed to already having bad feelings or decreased mental and physical health 
which motivated the Facebook use. Rather, it was Facebook itself directly causing the harm. With these studies in mind, it makes sense that a person may want to forgo 
Facebook altogether while still receiving information about what’s going on within an organization. 
Students may also seek to avoid Facebook because of its hazardous effects on 
users’ efficiency and physical safety. Facebook was literally “built to keep people engaged and distracted” with psychology-backed algorithms. For students who create a Facebook purely at the behest of the organization they’re a part of, this means it’s extremely difficult to use the account without getting drawn deeper into the site. 
Coupled with the above information, the drawbacks of Facebook’s damage to one’s 
mental and academic state is increasingly relevant, and should matter to any club that 
boasts about caring for its members. Equally salient to members’ well-being, some students evade Facebook to protect themselves from being found by past abusers. 
These students should not be forced to reveal past or ongoing trauma in order to 
achieve easily added accommodations. Overall, by offering a steady alternative form 
of information and communication, clubs can empower individuals to get involved without making them sacrifice their productivity or physical and mental well-being. 
With these concerns in mind, all organizations should have other well-utilized 
forms of communication for current and future members aside from Facebook. Yet, many campus clubs do not. Some clubs argue that a separate informational outlet 
would “burden their org with little reward.” Simply put, the extra effort involved is 
not worth accommodating the few people who are unwilling to create a Facebook or 
strictly seeking to limit their use of it. However, this attitude fails to recognize that this portion of people is not as small as one may assume — 19 percent of people between 
the ages of 18 and 29 don’t use Facebook. Hence, these organizations may be missing 
out on more people than they may assume. Additionally, most clubs feel strongly that 
they create a family atmosphere within their club; opening this opportunity would 
only increase that sentiment by including everyone, not just the majority, in important discourse and events. Additionally, giving more people the ability to access the 
necessary information to partake in a club may have an unforeseen positive impact on a club’s creative potential, diversity, relationships, officer board, and more. 
Another reason having an alternative to Facebook should not be seen as a charge 
to clubs is that it directly benefits members by providing a new position and skill-set Use your phone as your 
mobile ticket to ride. 
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
Moving to my own rhythm.
Your Winter Quarter U-Pass is 
valid through March 26, 2019
Student fees provide 
unlimited rides for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.  
Current registration/enrollment 
and valid @ucsd.edu email address required to activate account.
Download the 
Compass Cloud App and check for updates.
FOLLOW AND 
LIKE
US ON
 SOCIAL
MEDIA
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL   By System 32OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
▶ FACEBOOK , from page 1
opportunity to the club. While opponents of the 
idea claim that having to put the same information 
in multiple places unnecessarily strains the club, 
there’s no reason this should have to be an extra 
burden on an existing club officer. Clubs, which 
often boast of offering leadership opportunities to 
help members boost their resumes and further their 
involvement, can simply offer a new position within 
their club to take care of this “burden.” It’s hard to 
see how providing a new role to enhance members’ 
professional experience harms the organization. 
By now you’ve hopefully realized that forcing 
your members to use Facebook lacks merit. But, if you needed another reason, consider how impractical 
and difficult it is to keep track of information on 
Facebook groups, i.e., just a super long thread. With 
efficiency in mind, putting important information 
in a long thread, intermixed with chatter, makes it more difficult for members to remember important 
dates, opportunities, deadlines, and requirements. 
This is especially true for members who only check 
Facebook sparingly to keep up with the club. As 
an alternative, I suggest returning to a traditional emailed newsletter. Unlike Facebook, newsletters 
can contain all relevant information in one easy-
to-read document. This makes it less likely that 
information will be misplaced or lost. Additionally, 
everyone has an email address, which is free of the negatives of social media. Lastly and perhaps 
most importantly, Facebook zealots who prefer 
getting their information from Facebook can just 
unsubscribe. As an added bonus, clubs that want 
to be even more inclusive can consider using a 
different app such as WhatsApp to replace the 
informal social information that a club’s Facebook 
group often provides. 
Organizations of UCSD, the choice is obviously 
yours. While it may seem inefficient, old-fashioned, 
or just plain weird, Facebook does not and should 
not be the only, or even primary, option for any 
club’s current and prospective members to receive 
valuable and timely information about what’s 
going on in the organization. By taking steps away 
from Facebook, clubs have a unique opportunity 
to create a more inclusive, healthy, and organized 
environment for their members.
Geena Roberts   G1robert@ucsd.edufacebook.com/ucsdguardian
insta: @ucsdguardian
Twitter: @ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
MADELINE PARK AND JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
With the occurrence of the American Federation of 
County, State and Municipal Employees strikes in 2018, 
all attention was suddenly shifted to an area that has 
notably received very little before: the UC San Diego service sector. 
Oftentimes working jobs that cause them to slip further into the background, people in this line of work have dealt with the frustrating 
combination of being both overlooked and overworked. 
Not only have the strikes drawn attention to the plight of the 
UCSD service workers, but they’ve also thrust those student workers 
excluded from the general wave of strikes into the spotlight (as the 
strikes were mainly centered on full-time workers). In fact, although 
these student workers do not work these jobs full time, it can be 
said that their working 
conditions are equally as poor as those of the full-time workers — 
specifically, for Housing 
Dining Hospitality workers. 
Waking up at around 
6:30 a.m., HDH workers begin work earlier than most, preparing the 
dining halls for opening 
at 7:30 a.m. Once the food is prepared and set out, tables wiped down, cutlery and sauces restocked, and the workers set in place, the doors are opened to the 
onslaught of morning crowds who are continuously followed by the 
waves of lunch and dinner crowds that come in throughout the day. In periods when the crowds are more tempered, workers switch out the food for different meals. 
For the typical HDH worker, the days are filled with either the 
swelling crowds or the slow mind-numbing nothingness of staring at leftover food and slow-moving clocks. The day finally comes to an end a little after 9:00 p.m. when workers must stay afterward to clean 
up and throw away any extra food that may still be present by the day’s 
end. For market workers, closing time comes even later, when workers will begin locking doors around 1 a.m. This is all repeated the next day, and the next, and the next, and the next. 
In jobs such as these, it is easy for the work to begin to feel 
monotonous and meaningless. However, what dramatically intensifies the experience is the enormous scale that HDH operates on.  
Serving thousands of people each day while operating 14 dining 
halls and markets (not to mention the “housing” portion of their jobs), it is often difficult for HDH to keep up with the constant demands of students and faculty, all with a limited number of staff members. The 
fact that the number of staff members itself is continually fluctuating 
too — as turnover among HDH student jobs is high — does not help with the overall situation. Student workers are overworked and underpaid, and often have to 
compensate for the constant lack of staff.
As a former worker at Pines said, “It’s just really exhausting 
because you are constantly on your feet and moving. I was just really tired. Every time I would get home my roommate would be like, ‘ Are you okay?’ and I would be like, ‘No, ’ because I’m just on the floor 
because I’m too tired to even get up and take a shower. And I smell 
like dishwater. I would dread work and would have to give myself a pep talk every time I had to go in, because I needed money and I didn’t have time to apply for other jobs. ”
According to this anonymous worker, the understaffing problem is 
probably the most pervasive problem plaguing HDH workers. Because 
there is not much incentive to work the notorious HDH jobs (due to high stress 
levels and low pay), 
students who do work are coerced into working longer hours 
and more shifts. 
This leads to the overall exhaustion 
and mistreatment 
of current workers, 
which perpetuates the very ideas that drive students away from working at HDH in the first place, thus ensuring that the staff remains 
too small. In essence, the whole system is cyclical and in need of major 
reform. 
Jobs such as these, which drain workers of both physical and mental 
energy, as well as demand large amounts of time fail to compensate 
their workers properly. Not only are workers only paid minimum 
wage, but because of the stress, time, and energy that is put into these jobs, workers are often too exhausted to take on other responsibilities such as their schoolwork or involvement with different organizations. 
So where can reform begin? Perhaps one way would be to 
cut directly through the cycle and start with the treatment of its employees. Although they boast a good meal benefits program for their workers, HDH jobs are notorious for their harsh working 
conditions.  Workers are often herded in and out of shifts quickly and 
are often forced to pick up longer shifts that go later into the night or begin earlier in the mornings. One worker even commented that 
no adult worker even seemed to remember her name, despite having 
worked there for around a year. 
Not only are workers treated poorly by their supervisors, but they 
are also mistreated by fellow students. In fact, it is oftentimes students 
who are the worst to the student workers, to the point of  not even 
acknowledging their presence. 
“Student workers are overworked 
and underpaid, and often have to 
compensate for the constant 
lack of staff. ” 
The Plight 
of the HDH 
Worker
In light of the 
recent AFSCME strikes, the poor working conditions of many full-time UC workers have been brought to light. Yet, for many student workers as well, especially those employed by HDH, working conditions have been less than ideal.
By Madeline Park // Features Co-Editor
SeeHDH , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Madeline Park   features@ucsdGuardian   .edu▶ HDH , from page 6
“In the training, [HDH] tells you to be nice to the people. I 
remember one of the things — it was weird — but they said don’t 
say ‘no problem’ because you can’t treat [customers] like they’re 
a problem. So we were just trying to value them as an individual person instead of just another person we have to give food to, but a lot of times, if I’ d say, ‘Hi, ’ or ‘How are you?’ it’s just like nothing. 
It’s just like, ‘Give me this. ’ And sometimes it’s not even, ‘Oh, can I have this please?’ but it’s just pointing, ” an anonymous worker said. 
“We have a meme page and it’s where we vent all of our frustration about stupid customers. It’s very nice. That was a perk actually, because at least I could laugh and relate to that. ”
Understaffing and poor treatment are not the only issues that 
arise out of HDH’s enormity; there are food handling issues as well. According to a thread on the UCSD Reddit forum, because of HDH’s lack of accountability and monopoly on the dining 
system at UCSD, it is able to get away with many health-related 
and environmental “slips. ”
In fact, to name a few, both HDH workers and Reddit users have 
mentioned that not only does HDH not recycle — despite having separate trash bins for recycling and trash and claiming that they do recycle — but there is also a lot of cross-contamination that comes from workers who do not change their gloves when 
handling food, as well as the fact that all leftover food is thrown 
away at the end of each day. Such instances can also be attributed to HDH’s enormity, and therefore, lack of attention to detail. 
Some students, outraged by these statements, have taken to 
calling for the privatization of UCSD’s dining system in order to create the healthy competition that would potentially lead to the better treatment of workers, higher quality food, and lower prices. 
Others have instead sought to appeal directly to HDH, whether 
this be in the form of protests or general complaints. This, in turn, has led to occurrences such as the HDH forum that took place last spring or the AFSCME strikes that happened recently (with 
workers fighting against racial disparities, outsourced labor, and 
for a pay raise). 
Yet, whatever method people choose to help reform the system, it is clear that all are fighting for a common goal. Change within HDH needs to happen, especially when it comes to its workers. 
This isn’t to say that HDH is not already working to improve. 
In fact, it is important to acknowledge the several positive changes have been made within different areas of HDH’s widespread realm. One of the more recent reforms was for the dining plan, which has 
received an overwhelming amount of criticism from students who complain that it is too expensive. Over the course of the next two 
years, HDH will begin lowering the prices of the dining hall plans as well as allowing for dining dollars to roll into fall quarter. 
However, when it comes to HDH working conditions, change 
is still a work in progress Enter Pa Chia Vue, the Undergraduate Student Accounts Analyst for HDH. According to her, change is something that will take time. 
“ As a staff member who is also an alumna, I know time is 
something our students don’t always have. There are times when we aren’t able to do things as quickly as we’ d like to for students. Some solutions just take time because certain approvals may be 
required or we may need to reach out to other departments. We do 
our best to assist them in a timely manner, ” Vue said. “Students are our number one priority and their feedback is very important to us. We want them to know that they can always come to us when 
they’re unhappy so that we can work together to find a solution. 
We can’t be successful without our students.”
Yes, HDH is not perfect. Yes, it has a bad reputation when 
it comes to its treatment of workers. However, in order for 
improvements to be made, both HDH and its workers must 
be patient and continue to push for progress. These solutions, although seemingly here for a long time, will not come overnight and must be patiently awaited. As long as HDH continues to 
be receptive toward its customers and students and strives for 
change, it will move in the right direction. Hopefully, in light of the AFSCME strikes and with the focus now on the workers, more 
attention and pressure will be placed upon HDH for quicker and 
better solutions.
FOLLOW 
AND LIKE
US ON
 SOCIAL
MEDIA
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
insta: @ucsdguardian
Twitter: @ucsdguardianA&E EDITORS // DAISY SCOTT & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Time and time again, Chicago proves to be an in fluential force in the hip-hop genre, inspiring many of this generation’ s most well-known voices. 
From the early 1990s to the mid-2000s, Chicago hip-
hop was pioneered by a few dedicated artists. As the decade progressed and the sound evolved, however, 
the city’s music reached unforeseen heights of popularity.
With the release of “Graduation” in 2007, Kanye West’s 
“chipmunk soul” style solidified itself as both the dominant sound of Chicago and the most popular music of the time. The album was a victory lap for West, one designed to celebrate his massive popularity and sell out arenas with its grandiose and cinematic sound. Notably, “Graduation” was released the same day as 50 Cent’s “Curtis. ” Commercially, 50 Cent was one of the biggest artists of the early 2000’s, rivaled only by Eminem. Having been shot nine times, he embodied gangster rap, the dominant sound of the era. In 2003, he held two of the top five debut weeks, with “The Massacre” having the third highest hip hop 
debut ever at 1.14 million sales. The year 2007, however, 
signaled a change in the music climate, with West debuting higher (957,000 sales) in the same week. Gangster rap was on the downturn, with West’s pop–hip-hop fusion on a meteoric rise. The approachability of this sound combined with West’s prolificity permeated America and changed hip-hop forever. Chicago was especially affected 
by the shift, with the city embracing the identity that West 
embodied: confident swagger mediated by introspection and recognition of one’s own faults.
“Graduation” represented West’s (and Chicago’s) 
commercial peak, selling nearly 2.7 million copies in a month and a half. Following his infamous interruption of Taylor Swift at the 2009 Grammy Awards, the public turned against him, demonizing him and forcing him to briefly retreat from mainstream attention. The event, which saw him denouncing Swift’s music video award, changed his mainstream persona from a talented yet flawed artist to an egotistical narcissist. Though he would later return with one of the decade’s most critically acclaimed albums, “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, ” the mainstream sound had already moved on to Drake and Lil Wayne, who would dominate the coming years. Chicago itself continued to focus on its unique sound, concentrating on heavy use of samples mixed with jazz. With regard to content, the city stayed tied to its earlier conscious rap, even as mainstream hip-hop moved into the era of bling-focused rap near the end of the decade.
As the 2010s dawned, a new generation that grew up 
listening to West and Fiasco began to make its own waves 
in the Chicago scene. Among this crowd was the group 
Savemoney, founded by Vic Mensa. The members of this group, which included Chance the Rapper, Towkio, and Joey Purp, would go on to become some of the foremost names in the modern Chicago scene. Chance in particular became one of the most recognizable artists of the time. His first mixtape, “10 Day, ” was released in 2012 after he was suspended during his senior year of high school for the titular ten days. The album was the next step on the path created by West and Fiasco, focusing on Chance’s unique voice layered onto a backdrop of uplifting samples. Coincidentally, “The College Dropout” was the first hip-hop album Chance ever heard, and its influence can be heard in the heavy sampling present throughout his mixtape. “10 Day” also closely follows the theme of family, a subject that had become common among Chicago artists. For many of these artists, the violence in the city meant that their families were incomplete, creating an unfillable void in their life. This loss spurred an artistic 
response, with hip-hop artists using their music as a way to 
vent their emotions and express the grief they felt. 
When Chance released his next mixtape, “ Acid Rap, ” in 
2013, it instantly became one of the year’s most electrifying releases. It is sonically much darker, and a majority of its tracks are downbeat and depressing. It sounds drugged-out, with the samples slowed down and twisted, reflecting 
Chance’s drug addiction. The album largely focuses on 
loss, with Chance discussing how his “big homie died young/ [I] just turned older than him. ” The starkness of the emotion coupled with the intricate instrumentals resonated deeply with listeners, generating extensive amounts of critical acclaim. The album is a laundry list of important figures in the Chicago scene, including legends such as Twista, as well as other up-and-comers such as Noname and Saba. The city’s insularity can easily be seen in this rising group, with each of the artists featuring on each other’s releases. Over the following years, the informal crowd would grow to include such names as Ravyn Lenae, theMIND, Mick Jenkins, Raury, Smino, and various members of the Savemoney crew, among others.
Noname’s release of “Telefone” in 2016 was another 
landmark for the Chicago hip-hop scene. Noname, who grew to fame as a spoken-word poet, reinforced the artistry and lyricism of the Chicago scene that Common and Fiasco established. “Telefone” echoes the nostalgia of “ Acid Rap, ” longing for a time in which young artists were not forced to recognize the ugliness of the world. 
The influence of the older artists continued to appear 
in the younger generation. Saba released his debut album 
in 2016, titled “Bucket List Project. ” The album’s skits 
document what Saba’s friends and associates hope to accomplish before they die, ranging from the mundane (Will Fountain’s desire to eat at In-N-Out Burger and Chance’s desire to learn the drums) to the unlikely (Fiasco’s wish to win a Nobel Prize and Jean Deaux’s wish to smoke a blunt with Beyoncé). These skits continue the yearning found in “ Acid Rap” and “Telefone” for a better, simpler time. The tracks themselves reflect on the city of Chicago, noting how nobody wants to talk about the violence and problems the city and its inhabitants face on a daily basis. Saba also discusses how gentrification is a rising problem for the city. Without its unique culture, he asks, how will Chicago be able to define itself and take pride in its qualities? This question is central to Chicago music; much of the city’s exceptional qualities arise from the identity it has formed over the years. Once this identity is removed, artists are unsure of what will be left behind.
The year 2016 also signaled a potential revival of gospel 
in Chicago hip-hop. “Coloring Book, ” Chance’s third release and first official album, became the first album to chart on the Billboard Hot 200 (which tracks album popularity) solely as a result of online streaming. The album is full of religious instrumentals, such as the choir-filled “How Great, ” and religious allusions in the lyrics. There are two tracks named “Blessings, ” both of which 
contain descriptions of how Chance plans to praise God 
and celebrate the life he has been given. Chance continued to incorporate religious themes on “Ultralight Beam, ” the first song on West’s 2016 release, “The Life of Pablo. ”
In 2018, Saba released his second album, “Care for 
Me. ” This album is much more personal than the first and is extremely topically reminiscent of “ Acid Rap. ” In this album, the instrumentals are much more sparse, with a focus on the lyrics and Saba’s impeccable flow. It centers around Saba’s loss of his cousin and details the variety of personal issues he struggles with daily. “Care for Me” moves past the wistfulness of the earlier releases, recognizing that the issues are here to stay and that his only option is to learn how to deal with them. 
As Chicago’s musical identity continues to define itself 
and evolve, its artists will continue to imprint their own hopes and struggles on the sound. This outlet allows Chicago artists to express themselves within a unique sound and serves as an emotional record of the tumultuous history of the city.
— Alex Rickard 
Contributing Writer
A Love Affair Between Chicago and Hip-Hop :  Part 2PHOTO COURTESY OF GAZETTE REVIEW
Think about classical music. What types of sounds are you 
hearing? Chances are, you are hearing elements of the Classical Period of music, one of the most influential eras 
of Western art music.
The Classical Period lasted from the early 1700s to the 1800s 
and evolved as a response to the grandiose, embellished music style from the preceding Baroque Period. Classical composers rejected 
these ornate techniques in favor of simpler and lighter melodies. 
On top of that, musical forms such as the sonata, concerto, and symphony were developed, which kept music extremely organized. By establishing guidelines for these compositional formats, Classical composers left behind one of their greatest 
legacies, as composers today continue to follow these formats. 
Further, the combination of organization and clean melodies gave classical music its distinctly polished feeling.
Technological advances paved the way for more musical 
expression as engineers perfected the piano’s dynamic range, eventually rendering the harpsichord—the piano’s less riveting cousin—obsolete. As a result, many classical composers took advantage of this new instrument and composed vast amounts of 
works for it.
The Classical Period was a substantial time during the 
evolution of music. Coincidentally, the birthdays of some of the 
period’s most consequential composers happen to land in January. Thus, it seems apt to honor their anniversaries by celebrating the contributions they made to the music scene of their time.
Muzio Clementi (Born January 23rd, 1752. Died March 10th, 
1832) 
Born in Rome, Italy, Muzio Clementi showed a proclivity for 
music at a young age, becoming a professional church organist 
at only nine years old. At his father’s behest, he continued his 
musical education in England, establishing his career there for the remainder of his life.
Clementi often slips under the radar amongst the more 
heavyweight classical composers such as Beethoven or Haydn. 
However, he has made many contributions to the musical world, 
especially with regard to improving upon and popularizing the piano as a legitimate instrument. Commonly called the “Father of the Piano, ” Clementi in his heyday was, in fact, more renowned for 
his piano-manufacturing business than his music.
Nevertheless, Clementi composed many works, including 
over 100 sonatas for the piano and several symphonies (although 
most of them have been lost over the centuries). As a teacher 
and professional performer, Clementi’s works span all difficulty 
levels; from the repetitive “Gradus ad Parnassum” that he used to train budding musicians, to his more virtuosic “Sonata in B-Flat Major, Op. 24 No. 2, ” which showcases his love for incorporating blistering runs.
Not limited to composing and manufacturing, Clementi 
eventually entered the publishing business and distributed music 
scores in London. Most notably, he managed to obtain full 
publishing and distribution rights to all of Ludwig van Beethoven’s works. This, along with his piano business, made Clementi quite wealthy, a memorable feat for a musician during his time. He 
retired in relative comfort until his death at 80 years of age. His 
pragmatic business skills and diverse portfolio made him a jack-of-all-trades figure in his time. Perhaps it is because of his relative plainness that we often gloss over his numerous contributions to the Classical Period.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (Born January 27th, 1756. Died 
December 5th, 1791)
A man that needs no introduction, Mozart was — and still 
is — widely considered to be one of the greatest composers 
and musicians of all time. Born in Salzburg, Austria, he was a remarkable child prodigy. At just age five, Mozart could competently play both the violin and the keyboard. This is also 
when he began composing.
Despite his short life (he died at the age of 35), Mozart composed 
hundreds of works, including symphonies, concertos, operas, and 
sonatas. Many of his compositions are considered to be some of the Recapitulation of  the Classics
January happens to contain the birthdays of several de fining Classical Period composers. As the first month of the year draws to a close, 
let’s take a retrospective look at some of history’s musical giants whose music eventually transformed into the pop we hear today.A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
EARN A MASTER’S IN 
BUSINESS ANALYTICS IN 
10 months.
PHOTO COURTESY OF KUNRbest in the format, such as his “Piano Concerto 
No. 24 in C minor. ” This concerto encapsulates Mozart’s preference for clean, balanced sounds. 
Not one to blend in with the crowd, Mozart’s 
more daring creativity can be heard in the same concerto’s third Allegretto movement, where he dabbles with some chromaticism instead of 
sticking to a purely tonal style. This is further 
exemplified in his “String Quartet in C Major, ” which includes so many chromatic chords that it is colloquially dubbed the “Dissonance” quartet. He also popularized “ Ah vous dirai-je, Maman” through his twelve variations on its melody. In the Anglosphere, it is more commonly known as “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star. ”
At one point Mozart famously competed with 
Clementi, each of whom performed a series of their own compositions judged by Joseph II, the 
Emperor of Habsburg. While the competition 
ended in a tie, both Mozart and Clementi seemed to agree that Mozart was victorious. In fact, Mozart was quite critical of Clementi, calling 
him “a mere mechanicus” in his musicianship. 
Regardless, Mozart eventually warmed up to Clementi’s music, and even borrowed some of Clementi’s motifs in his future compositions as a sign of respect.
Mozart died in 1791 after falling ill to an unknown disease, and, in spite of his elevated status,  was buried in a fairly standard grave. However, due to his immense fame, many 
memorial services were held to honor him. 
Furthermore, book publishers scrambled to become the first company to sell Mozart’s biography. Although he had a brief life, Mozart’s 
unique talents quickly propelled him to the top 
echelons of the musical community, a position he continues to maintain centuries after his death. 
 
Franz Schubert (Born January 31st, 1797. Died 
November 19th, 1828)
Born in Vienna, Austria much later into the 
Classical Period, Franz Schubert paved the way for the transition between the orderly music of the Classical Period to the emotionally riveting compositions of the Romantic Period. Like 
Mozart, Schubert died young at 31 years of 
age, yet he left behind an enormous repertoire spanning from vocal works and operas to chamber and symphony music.
At age 16, Schubert studied to become a 
schoolteacher. This did not stop him from his music career, however, and he managed to become a performer for the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde, an organization that promoted 
public awareness of music. It was during his time at this organization that his musicianship matured 
and he cemented his own compositional style. He gave his first and only public performance of 
his original works on March 26, 1828, the first 
anniversary of Beethoven’s death. Beethoven was a fervent supporter of Schubert, and believed his talents would draw the attention of everyone in 
the world.
Unfortunately, this did not happen in 
Schubert’s lifetime. Later that year in 1828, 
Schubert succumbed to typhoid fever and died in relative obscurity. Nevertheless, he left behind a legacy of being one of the most experimental Classical Period composers, something that eased the music world’s progression into the Romantic era.
Unlike the previous two composers, 
Schubert’s fame was largely posthumous. His 
works were performed by many Romantic 
Period performers such as Johannes Brahms and Franz Liszt, likely due to Schubert’s unique stylistic blend of Classical and Romantic 
elements. “Serenade, ” one of his best-known 
works, exemplifies this amalgamation of sounds. The background accompaniment is metered and reminiscent of the Classical era style, yet a colorful, somber melody flutters above the 
accompaniment. This is strikingly different from the crisp melodies of Mozart and Clementi. 
Thus enter the Romantic elements, and with Schubert, many of his works intertwine emotion 
and music in a way that was almost inconceivable 
to composers of his past.
These three composers were not only 
instrumental during the Classical Period; they are also interesting case studies into how music evolves over time. While it’s safe to say the works of Clementi, Mozart, and Schubert sound incredibly outdated, their music was as relevant to listeners back then as Ariana Grande or Adele are to us today. That begs the question: Who will be the Mozart — the defining musician — of our music era? While we will probably never know the answers to these questions in our own lifetimes, this does make us the 
arbitrators of music yet to come. So if you are 
ever distraught over the current state of hip-hop, electronic music, or whatever music genre you enjoy for that matter, keep complaining, and 
keep searching for unconventional artists on 
SoundCloud. The modern-day Schumann could be right under our noses.
—Steven Zhou
Staff Writer10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Recently, I started at my part-time job on campus, inadvertently transforming 
myself further into the classic “college kid” stereotype. I completed my training 
over winter break, feeling a bubbling of both excitement and nerves as the 
weight of this new responsibility settled on my shoulders. Since I was to begin the job this winter, I knew that this quarter more than ever would require a 
juggling act on my part. 
Fast forward to now, and I feel like I’ve been functioning adequately so far. 
Despite the fact that I’ve only been working for a few weeks, I feel that I’ve 
picked up a couple nifty tricks along the way. So, for anyone who needs some advice on balancing school and a job, I have some overwhelmingly average tips 
to share. Read on to become enlightened.
Take Time to Plan Ahead 
As obvious as this advice sounds, the importance of setting aside time for 
future planning should not be underestimated. A lack of organized scheduling 
can lead to heaps of minor mistakes, causing major headaches later on. Plus, 
nothing is more embarrassing than accidentally double-booking a shift that 
conflicts with classes.
What I’ d suggest: Combine all weekly responsibilities in one calendar. 
Physical planners or anything digital (such as Google Calendar) can work wonders. I, for one, am a sucker for cute planners, and writing down everything in those little calendar squares is both practical and pleasing to the eye.
Finish Assignments ASAP
After committing to the responsibility of a job, procrastination in regard to 
schoolwork can be a death wish. In particular, weeks when I have midterms are when I most often fall victim to this abhorrent habit. If I ever wait too long to take even a glimpse at TritonEd, I know that an avalanche of stress and 
announcement notifications will soon bury me. Yeah, it’s not a fun time.
What I’ d suggest: Write down all deadlines so that the workload for each 
week is easily visible. (Note: the planner is also useful for this!) Then, simply get started on whatever is due next as soon as you have a free moment. For 
example, I usually get started on my weekly homework assignments way before their Sunday deadline, and I’m way less stressed as a result. Believe it or not, 
everything will get done much faster when done in steps, rather than all at 
once.
Pack Food and Drinks!
Studies have shown that humans need sustenance to live — I know, how 
shocking! When I’m out of the house the whole day, I know that packing a lunch will absolutely improve my constitution later on. But, contrary to common sense, several people I know will eat one meal’s worth of food when they’re busy on campus from dawn till dusk. That, my friends, is the recipe 
for rapid burnout. If there’s truly no time to buy food on the way from class to 
work, then it’s best to prepare in advance.
What I’ d suggest: Though each of us is different, knowing one’s own 
appetite will inform how much food to bring. Since I’m more of a snacker myself, I tend to bring one bigger, main dish (usually a wrap or something rice-based) in accompaniment with a couple smaller snacks (e.g., popcorn, pretzels, 
nuts). After experimenting a little with different food combinations, it will be 
easy to form a routine. Also, Tupperware will be a lifesaver.
Schedule in Break Times
Last quarter, my Tuesday/Thursday schedule forced me to have class 
nonstop for a grand total of 4 1/2hours. Needless to say, that lack of breaks 
amid such a hectic day drove me up the wall a little bit. I’ d always go home 
feeling incredibly drained, which taught me an important lesson: breaks are my friend. People aren’t meant to focus on anything so intellectually invested 
as class for so long, and with a job on top of that? It just isn’t healthy.
What I’ d suggest: Be mindful of gaps when scheduling classes and shifts. 
If I have a heavy class load on one day, I try my best to maintain a balance by working longer shifts on days when I don’t have many classes to worry about. 
Though not everyone has total control of when they work, just try to maintain as much of a balance as possible.
Communication is Key
Keeping an open line of communication with professors, teaching assistants, 
co-workers, and supervisors is honestly the most helpful thing in the world. Even if I have a relatively minor concern about work, I know I can email my supervisor to clear up anything I want to know. Being unafraid to clarify 
questions helps so as to not let small issues develop into something worse later 
down the line.
What I’ d suggest: Don’t be a stranger! Even if something seems like a stupid 
question, ask anyway. I’ve  found that asking someone else before making a decision about a difficult matter saves me so much trouble. Knowing is so much better than mulling over an ambiguous situation.
Even though I’m still a newbie myself, hopefully these nuggets of wisdom 
were helpful to someone out there. So let’s keep our wits about us and chant, “Don’t freak out!” in our heads every time something threatens to spill over. 
This method definitely works, (almost) 100 percent guaranteed.A Newbie's Guide to Managing Class and a P art-Time Job
by Jade Hookham, Lifestyle Staff Writer
Jade Hookham  jhookham@ucsd.eduLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduLocated close to many UC San Diego students, Convoy Street in Kearny Mesa offers an 
abundant number of Asian cuisine options. From breakfast, lunch, dinner, or dessert, Convoy will have something for you. Though there are many restaurants available, the 
following are a few of my personal favorites places in no particular order.
RakiRaki Ramen & T sukemen
Imagine a steaming hot bowl of flavorful ramen. This is what RakiRaki is best known to 
serve — authentic ramen from Japan delivered right in front of you. Its ramen noodles 
are chewy and its broth is made so you can taste the amount of time spent creating the bowl of near perfection. I also highly recommend its Chicken Karaage (fried chicken) as an appetizer to share with your friends.What to order: Red Edition Ramen: Jukusei Fermentation
Phuong Trang
Phuong Trang is many UCSD students’ go-to location as it provides fast service with affordable prices and good quality pho. This restaurant has been my all-time favorite 
because of its casual atmosphere that makes it great to catch up with friends. 
What to order: Garlic Wings with Butter 
Tofu Hous e
I just recently discovered this gem. Located in the same plaza as RakiRaki and Cauldron 
Ice Cream, Tofu House serves a variety of Korean dishes. From sizzling stone bowls to 
warm tofu soup, this restaurant is ideal for a cold and rainy day. It also offers a basket of eggs for your dishes and complimentary drinks by the front door for patrons who are waiting. However, the seating is rather tight and not ideal for a big group during 
busy times.
What to order: Hot Stone Fisherman
Friend’s House Korean
Friend’s House is another Korean tofu house. However, the atmosphere is more intimate 
with spaced-out seating, friendly service, and unique decor. It offers more side dishes 
compared to Tofu House and refills are quick. My personal favorite is its bibimbap. What to order: Ddeokbokki (spicy rice cake) and Bibimbap
Tajima 
Tajima has several locations throughout San Diego and even one in Tijuana! It serves a variety of Japanese dishes like ramen, sushi, and poke bowls. Its happy hour offers great deals for lunch or an early dinner after your classes.What to order: Anything!
Koon Thai Kitchen
As a student who studied in Thailand a few months ago, I would say Koon Thai arguably closely resembles authentic Thai cuisine. In fact, I personally prefer Koon Thai’s Thai tea over the Thai teas I tried in Thailand. I recommend trying its green curry and pad kee mao (drunken noodles). 
What to order: Thai tea and green curry
Cross Street Chicken and Beer
If you are craving Korean fried chicken, this restaurant offers tender, juicy, and delicious 
chicken. It has friendly service and a Spicy Wing Challenge where the contestant tries 
to finish the Carolina Reaper-flavored wings under five minutes for multiple prizes. I have and will not attempt it — however, I truly recommend its boneless chicken in Seoul Spicy and Thai Chilli sauces along with its beer battered fries. What to order: Seoul Spicy and Beer Battered Fries
Freeze 
Black Magic. This is Freeze’s famous charcoal butterscotch-flavored liquid nitrogen ice cream. Initially, I was afraid to try this unusual flavor, but despite it leaving black-
stained crevices on my teeth, it is extremely creamy and flavorful. Freeze allows you to 
select the waffle cone color of your choice to customize the dessert and make it picture perfect. Did I also mention that this shop has unique decoration and decent lighting for that perfect Instagram photo?What to order: Black Magic 
SomiSomi
SomiSomi is right around the corner from RakiRaki and serves a Korean-inspired dessert called Ah-Boong. With a small selection of flavors of soft serve ice cream and 
filling to choose from, it is served on a fish-shaped cone. This restaurant is a great way 
to get your sweet cravings fixed after dinner and is great to share with friends.What to order: Milk and Ube Ice Cream
Cauldron Ice Cream
Sandwiched between RakiRaki and Tofu House, Cauldron’s Convoy location opened last summer. Serving liquid nitrogen ice cream in a puffle cone, its ice cream is creamy and rich in flavor. It takes the time to create a rose-shaped ice cream scoop, making it picture perfect. Like Freeze, Cauldron aims to create an Instagram-inviting atmosphere; 
however, I personally find the lighting too dim. 
What to order: Earl Grey Lavender Ice Cream
These are just a few of my personal favorites that I find myself going back to constantly; 
there are numerous restaurants and shops I have yet to list and try in this article. What 
are some of your recommendations?  by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Staff WriterRestaurants To Visit on Convoy Street
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduTraveling to another country and back in less than a week was not 
something that I expected to do. I was  in my last quarter of college at UC San 
Diego, I was already tired, and the idea of spending thousands of dollars on 
plane tickets and souvenirs just didn’t sound like a smart decision. But as an only child with my closest cousin getting married, (after proposing to three different women in the past, mind you), I couldn’t say no. After one road trip and two bumpy plane rides, I was finally in El Salvador. 
It is important to note that I have hardly been far from home. UCSD is only 
two hours away from my hometown and I make it a point to come down and visit at least once a month. Besides a new gas station and some re-set pavement, 
I have never experienced coming back to an entirely changed hometown. 
But when I stepped foot in the country where my family was from, I 
suddenly felt like I had landed in an entirely new place. I hadn’t been to El Salvador in almost 10 years, and here I was, standing in a country I no longer 
recognized. My vivid memories of running around the streets drinking mango juice and eating pastries were tarnished when I spent a full 24 hours 
with extreme food poisoning. The house I had stayed in as a child was now 
being rented out and I could no longer recognize the newly painted homes. The market down the street with old smiley grandmothers that sold artisanal 
souvenirs and fresh seafood had replaced its products with cheap neon pink 
backpacks with Disney characters splattered on the front. For a split second, I began to see that El Salvador was not the country I remembered it to be.
Although the country I remembered no longer existed, the one important 
thing that remained was the people. When I was vomiting my brains out, my entire family stayed up with me even if they had plans the next day. My uncle 
drove me to the emergency room when I was not getting better and paid for all 
of my medications. My aunt took me by the arm after the wedding when I could hardly stand and directed me and my wobbly heels to her car. 
The most memorable people I met came when we visited Conchagua, a small indigenous village sitting on a large hill about 15 minutes away from my mother’s hometown. Despite the fact that the history of El Salvador has often 
looked down upon the indigenous community, the people there welcomed 
visitors with open arms. My mom’s best friend, Lorenita, one of the most prominent members of the community, is someone I have always considered a hero. She was the only doctor willing to take me in when I faced an accident in El Salvador years before. She is  one of the kindest people I have ever known, 
not just because of her eagerness to treat me, but also for her unconditional 
kindness to others. She had not seen me since I was four, yet she automatically knew who I was and treated me as if I was family. Her father, though a bit 
elderly, was equally as welcoming and gave me a big hug, thanking God that 
I was there. By surrounding myself with amazing Salvadorans who love their country, I was able to recognize the true beauty of El Salvador. 
When my family and I left Conchagua, we drove around the town where 
my aunts and moms grew up. They laughed as they pointed at what was now a gas station, recalling the house that once stood there. They remembered their 
own memories of the way El Salvador once was, and as they indicated things 
that were no longer apparent, it became very clear that this feeling of change never truly goes away. Whether they left the country for college or to flee the 
country’s civil war, they had come back to a new reality of what life is now. 
Whether we’re international students, from out of state, or live a small 
ways away, one of the first symptoms of growing up is experiencing profound feelings of change in our own homes while we’ve been gone. This can be 
unsettling because home is the place that feels most comfortable to us, and comfort can be found in stability. But just like my time in El Salvador, home 
is more than just a place. Home is where you feel best with others. The true 
beauty of El Salvador lies in the beauty of its people, and while we may have many reasons to wish for the simpler times of our past, it is the people that 
create the feeling of home that we all so cherish and need.10 Years Time
by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Samirah  Martinez  scm008@ucsd.eduCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
BEIJING DANCE THEATER ARTPOWER
PRESENTSTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 28 - FEB 3
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org5pm
ILEAD WEEK 4 - 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
This program offers risk reduction tips about 
online safety, privacy settings, dating apps, social media, and how to protect personal information. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCTS ) - VARIES
Come learn a new language through the art of 
conversing with a native. We have a huge variety of language, from ASL, Armenian to Mandarin, Japanese, and more!
7:15pm
TEST PREPARATION FOR UC SAN 
DIEGO UNDERGRADUATES: GMAT, GRE, LSAT – RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Gearing for grauduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a 
GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego 
Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today! Contact: precollege@ucsd.edu
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 4 - 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
This program offers risk reduction tips about 
online safety, privacy settings, dating apps, social media, and how to protect personal information. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
7:15pm
TEST PREPARATION FOR UC SAN 
DIEGO UNDERGRADUATES: GMAT, GRE, LSAT – RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Gearing for graduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today!TUE1.29
THU1.31MON1.28
12:30pm
ILEAD WEEK 8 – BEAR ROOM, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
Learn about student leadership, student 
organizations, leadership styles, and diversity, all 
in the context of comic books and superheroes! 
1pm
ILEAD WEEK 4 - 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST
This program offers risk reduction tips about 
online safety, privacy settings, dating apps, social 
media, and how to protect personal information. 
Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
4pm
BEGINNER BADMINTON - REC GYM
Make a racket with your newfound badminton 
skills in our beginner's class where you'll get to 
learn all the basics and run through drills to 
practice! Contact: mchosich@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCTS ) - VARIES
Come learn a new language through the art of 
conversing with a native. We have a huge variety 
of language, from ASL, Armenian to Mandarin, 
Japanese, and more! Contact: 
ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
7pm
CAMERA LUCIDA - CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music collaboration 
between four musicians with diverse 
backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a unique project 
matching masterpieces of the chamber music 
repertoire with a group of world-class 
instrumentalists who happen to call San Diego 
home. Under the artistic directorship of UC San 
Diego professor and cellist Charles Curtisand 
anchored by regular featured performances by 
San Diego Symphony ConcertmasterJeff Thayer, 
Formosa Quartet violist and USC 
professorChe-Yen Chen, concert pianist Reiko 
Uchida, UC San Diego performance faculty and 
occasional guests, Camera Lucida has 
established a tradition of challenging, musically 
ambitious programs performed with the 
assurance of an established ensemble, with the 
added flexibility of changing instrumentation and 
guests from the international chamber music 
world. Program- To be announced. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.eduGLOBAL SEMINAR EARLY BIRD 
DEADLINE - UC SAN DIEGO STUDY 
ABROAD OFFICE
Thinking of applying to a Global Seminar so you 
can study abroad this summer 2019? Students that submit their applications by February 1st will be entered into a raffle for an STA travel voucher to use towards their flights abroad. (Global Seminar's final application deadline is still March 1st). Contact: globalseminar.ucsd.edu 8585341123
6pm
JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK 
YOGA AND CLIMBING TRIP - 
JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK
Need an escape from all things school? Check 
out our upcoming Joshua Tree National Park Yoga and Climbing Trip where you'll get the chance to practice yoga, eat around the campfire, and camp under the stars. Contact: mchosich@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION 
TABLES (LCTS ) - VARIES
Come learn a new language through the art of 
conversing with a native. We have a huge variety of language, from ASL, Armenian to Mandarin, Japanese, and more!
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS 
HERMITAGE PIANO TRIO - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Descending from the great Russian musical 
tradition, the Hermitage Piano Trio is distinguished by its exuberant musicality, interpretative range, and sumptuous sound. In the same way that St. Petersburgs venerable Hermitage State Museum represents the very essence and history of Russia while also using its collection to embrace and promote cultures from around the world, the trio embodies the majesty of their Russian lineage.FRI2.01
10am
2019 EXPLORING CAREERS IN 
LIFE SCIENCE INDUSTRIES – GREAT HALL - UCSD ROOSEVELT COLLEGE
The 3rd annual Exploring Careers in Life 
Science Industries event is a one-day conference featuring career presentations and a networking lunch with professionals and alumni. Professionals from local biotech companies, like Illumina and Tioga Research Inc., will discuss career paths in industry. Get tips on writing an effective resume and learn how to kick-start your internship and other development opportunities. Start making connections for your future! 
To register for event visit: 
https://ucsdbio-lifesciences-2019.eventbrite.com 
All undergraduate and MS students in life 
science studies are highly encouraged to attend!
Contact: dobio@ucsd.edu 858-534-5515SAT2.02WED1.30BALBOA THEATRE
3pm
ILEAD WEEK 4 - 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
This program offers risk reduction tips about 
online safety, privacy settings, dating apps, 
social media, and how to protect personal 
information. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 EXPLORATIVE, 
EXPLANITIVE, AND PERFORMATIVE - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER, EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
This evening will feature an informal 
conversation between clarinetist Anthony Burr, 
computer musician Jacob Sundstrom, and 
composer Roger Reynolds. Each will describe their role in a two-year collaboration resulting in Toward Another World; LAMENT. Its three movements: Innocence, Awakening, and Resolve, trace the emotional arc traveled by Iphigenia, daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, as she grasps her fate. The relationship between Aeschyluss text, extended techniques for the solo instrument, and the management of three 
algorithmic strategies for modifying and 
responding to the live musicians performance 
will be discussed and illustrated before a culminating performance of the completed work. 
A Q&A with the audience closes the program. 
Contact: boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS BEIJING 
DANCE THEATER - BALBOA 
THEATRE
Founded in 2008, Beijing Dance Theater is led by 
its choreographer, Wang Yuanyuan, together with visual artists Tan Shaoyuan and Hanjiang. Born and raised in Beijing, Wang is one of China's leading modern dance choreographers. She prides herself on being rooted in Chinese traditions, while at the same time producing innovative, authentic, and thought-provoking contemporary dance works for the world stage. The evening program includes selections from Hamlet, Wild Grass, and Crossing. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SUPER HERO
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Brothers of ‘50s music
5. Fancy bathroom fixture10. Far East wet nurse
14. Scandinavian inhabitant
15. It precedes febrero
16. Television newsman who’s a Brit17. Start of a sleepy pun20. Some baseball statistics
21. Brand of glue
22. Farrow and Gardner, to Sinatra
23. Men’s org. founded in 186824. Commercial cat27. Builder’s need
28. Massachusetts cape
31. Strand at O’Hare in February, per-
haps
32. Elisabeth of “Leaving Las Vegas”
33. Mars prefix
34. Middle of the pun
37. Saint Pierre and Miquelon
38. Plaster backing39. Set things square40. “___ in cat”41. Blanchett of “Elizabeth”42. Melodic43. Kaplan who played Kotter44. Cornerstone abbr.45. Bassett or Lansbury48. Kind of Western town52. End of the pun54. Character actor Jack of Westerns55. Tapestry56. Ticklish doll57. Peckinpah and Walton58. Dorothy, to Em59. DatesDOWN
 1. Sitcom legend2. Sportscaster Albert3. It makes for a pointless duel
4. Barbecue offering, sometimes
5. Neutral colors
6. “The Wreck of the Mary Deare” author7. B.A. and B.S., e.g.8. “___ tu” (Verdi)
9. Gershwin’s “An American in Paris, ” for 
one
10. “Oh, give me ___, where the ... ”
11. Epitome of stubbornness12. Cherub with a bow
13. Towel word, sometimes
18. Singer Nightingale
19. Lummox23. Tree branch24. Ape
25. Museum of Drag Racing city
26. Spanish kings
27. Author E.B.28. ___-Detoo of “Star Wars”29. Some aquarium fish30. Like some checking accounts32. Outpouring33. Snake bite remedies35. Mobile home owner?36. Singer Kitt41. Colombia cartel city42. Words before “of humor” or “of smell”43. Cold carriers?44. Pioneer computer of 194645. Nautical yeses46. Popular Vincent Lopez tune47. Island captured by Japan in 194148. Shrek, e.g.49. Tee off50. Not all51. Slaughter of St. Louis53. Mr. OnassisCARS
2015 MINI Countryman Cooper S San 
Diego, CA - $35,350. Exterior Color: light white, Body: Wagon, Engine: I4 1.60L, Fuel: Gas, Doors: 4... ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2003 Honda Civic 4dr Sdn GX CVT w/Side 
Airbags for sale in San Diego, California. The interior is in outstanding condition. The tires are in good condition and have about 75 % of the tread life left.CLEAN TITLE. EXCELLENT FINANCING FOR GOOD CREDIT. BAD CREDIT OR REALLY BAD CREDIT. PLEASE CALL RAUL FOR A 10 MINUTE PRE APPROVAL OVER THE PHONE...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2002 Ford Thunderbird Convertible 
PREMIUM Convertible. Raising the trip. Amazing acceleration! For a True Lexus Experience make sure to contact our USED ONLINE SALES MANAGERS at -LRB-888-RRB-632-XXXX. Car purchasing Pressure-Free. Ford has outdone itself with this beau -
tiful 2002 Ford Thunderbird and with these low miles at this cost, it just doesn’t get any much better! Motor Trend Car of the Year in 2002…  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
HARO 20” bmx bike/ DK wheels/ many New parts/ Excellent condition - HARO bmx bike info;.
HARO F series-2 structure and fork /. near 
best Red factory framework paint task. 
Leading tube 20” 1/2” (center of head tube 
to center of seat post). Back part 14” (facility 
of cranks to facility of back tire axle). New 
Pig head collection, brand-new Odyssey 
pedals,.... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Moutain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, Womens 
- errific Condition. Hasn’t been ridden in 5 yrs due to being over seas. Size small -
ComponentsComponent Group: Mountain MixFront Derailleur: Front DerailleurRear Derailleur: Back DerailleurBrakeset: Promax aluminum brakes, aluminum leversShift 
Levers: Shimano Alivio RapidFireCrankset: 
Bontrager Sport… ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Fat Tire Beach Cruisers San Diego - $479 . 
Our fat tire beach cruisers are made with high grade quality parts and the most beautiful paint job you will ever see on fat tire cruisers. Nobody can match our 
quality and exotic colors.Fat tire bikes have 
been around for 10yrs mainly used in the 
mountains through snow and sand terrain. 
However, these beach cruisers are perfect 
for beach boardwalks, hard sand terrain, 
and subdivision pathways. … ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
TEAS tutor. My wife would like to begin preparing for the TEAS test and is in need 
of a tutor. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Electrical Engineering Tutor - I want to work 
on an electricity and magnetism project involving circuits and magnetic induction. I would like a tutor who knows mobile app development and java language… ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
After School Instructor - Are you looking for 
a flexible part time job? Check out Coding 
with Kids - we are looking for instructors 
to teach coding to elementary and middle 
school students as well as camps. We will 
provide paid training and get you ready 
to teach with another instructor. We have 
opportunities at many local schools. ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
On a weekend where Torrey 
Pines hosted the biggest stars in golf, 
the hottest ticket in town was for the UC San Diego men’s volleyball home opener on Friday, Jan. 25 against the 
UCLA Bruins, with a near-record 
crowd of 1,648 piling into RIMAC Arena for a game televised on ESPN3. The Tritons took advantage of their 
mobility and ability to make serves in the first set, but in the end, the Bruins’ 
big men up front were too powerful for the Tritons. While the Tritons put up a good fight, the Bruins ultimately 
overcame the home team’s advantage, winning the match 3–1: 20–25, 25–17, 25–15, and 25–23. 
Half of the arena was empty for the 
cameras, but that didn’t do anything to lessen the buzz, and neither did a late-arriving crowd. If anything, UCSD was at its best early on in the game, fighting 
off the jitters that accompany playing 
on ESPN against one of the best teams in the nation to take the first set 25–20. The first set was characterized by 
missed opportunities by UCLA, and the errors began right away, as the 
Bruins missed their very first serve of 
the match to give the Tritons the early 
1–0 lead. 
UCSD led for the entire way, 
leading by as much as 6 points over the course of the set. Sophomore outside hitter Wyatt Harrison and redshirt sophomore middle blocker Vlad Pesic paced the Tritons early on, 
collecting the team’s first 2 kills of the 
night. The first big run by UCSD came 
in response to a powerful hit down the 
middle from UCLA ’s Daenan Gyimah that made the score 12–10. A fter this 
resounding spike, the Tritons scored 3 straight points on kills from Harrison and Pesic, followed by 2 blocks by Pesic, the second of which earning 
UCSD a 15–10 lead. The momentum 
was noticeable, and as more fans 
began to trickle in, UCLA called their first timeout of the game. 
Despite scoring the first point 
coming out of the timeout, the Bruins missed their next serve to bring the score to 16–11 and then missed another serve at 17–12, with the student section doing their best to yell to try to distract the servers of 
the visiting Bruins. By set’s end, the 
Tritons seemed to be in control of the match, with the final kill by freshman 
middle blocker Shane Benetz eliciting a wild roar from the crowd.
But the Bruins would not be 
upset. Over the next 3 sets, UCLA dominated up front, striking 40 kills to UCSD’s 24. The Bruins’ three-headed 
monster up front was led by outside hitter Brandon Rattray, a transfer from the University of Hawaii who led all players with 21 kills, with fellow-Hawaii transfer Austin Matautia and Gyimah contributing 11 and 9 kills, respectively. 
While the first 2 sets ended 
quickly, the Tritons came back with 
a vengeance in the fourth set, nearly 
taking it from the heavily-favored Bruins. UCSD scored its first 2 points 
via missed serves, a common theme on the night that UCLA was able to overcome. The Bruins missed 24 
serves on the night to the Triton’s 19. The fourth set featured 17 tie scores and 6 lead changes. For comparison, the previous 3 sets combined only saw 4 tie scores and 1 lead change.  
UCSD first took the lead on a kill 
by freshman middle blocker Logan Clark to go up 5–4, but Clark promptly followed that up by missing the serve. After going back-and-forth, freshman 
setter Berkeley Miesfeld unleashed an ace to give the Tritons a 13–11 lead, prompting a UCLA timeout. In what was a common occurrence for these 
two teams, Miesfeld came out of the 
timeout and missed the serve, but was somewhat helped by Gyimah missing his serve on the following play to make the score 14–12, a sequence that played out again at 19–19 and 20–19.
At this point, redshirt outside 
hitter Xander Jimenez had a big block, prompting an outburst from the crowd 
and consequently a timeout by UCLA, 
with UCSD holding on to a 21–19 lead. The Tritons would never lead by 
2 points again for the rest of the match. UCLA went on to tie the score at 21–21, which led to a timeout by the home team, before going on to take a 24–23 lead. The Tritons faithful screamed and stomped desperately to try and force a missed serve by UCLA, but the Bruins were able to stay composed, 
winning the set and the match on a 
kill by Matautia. Matautia’s drive was blocked at the line by the Tritons back into the hands of the Bruins before deflecting out of bounds, but the 
referees ultimately awarded UCLA the point despite the animated protests from the UCSD sideline. 
The Tritons had to have a short 
memory though, as they were slated to take on the Grand Canyon University Antelopes the next day, sweeping them 25–20, 27–25, and 25–19 in what was their first home win of the season. 
Harrison paced UCSD with 17 kills, with Miesfeld, Benetz, and Jimenez adding 7 kills, 4 kills, and 4 kills, respectively. Up next on the schedule 
for the Tritons are four more games 
within the friendly con fines of RIMAC 
Arena, with the next matchup coming against the Princeton University Tigers on Tuesday, Jan. 29 at 5 p.m. 
Men's volleyballMen’s Volleyball 
Falls to UCLA in Home Opener; Beats Grand 
Canyon
The Tritons go 1-1 in their first 
weekend back at home.PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSCAN
BY jack dorfman
Sports Editor 
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Princeton
vs Mexican National Teamvs Stanislaus Statevs Stanislaus StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
Fencing
W Basketball
M Basketball7PM
12:30PM
5:30 PM7:30 PM1/291/301/311/31
The No. 13 UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team hit the road this 
past weekend to take on California 
Collegiate Athletic Association opponents California State University, Chico and California State University, Humboldt. Upon previously defeating both teams earlier in the season, the Tritons were looking to improve both their overall and CCAA records, ultimately beating Chico State 78–57 
and falling to Humboldt State 67–65.
 
UC San Diego @ Chico State
To begin the road trip, UCSD 
took on the Wildcats on Thursday, 
Jan. 24. The Tritons jumped on the 
board early, scoring the first 4 points 
of the game. With 11 minutes le ft in 
the first half, UCSD went on a 23–10 
run, increasing its 27–17 lead to 50–27 
heading into hal ftime. The team shot 
60.7 percent (17–28) from the field 
and 50 percent (8–16) from beyond the arc to provide them with lots of momentum moving forward.
Junior forward Scott Everman led 
the Tritons on o ffense, leading in both 
points and assists. Everman tallied 5 
three-pointers, all of which came in 
the first 20 minutes of the game. He 
also facilitated 4 assists and 3 defensive rebounds to add to his stellar night. 
The blue and gold spread the 
love and had five individuals score 
in double figures. Sophomore guard 
Gabe Hadley was not far behind Everman, recording 13 points in his 20 
minutes of play.  Redshirt sophomore 
guard Mikey Howell contributed as well with 12 points, 3 assists and 3 steals, while redshirt junior center 
Chris Hansen and redshirt freshman 
guard Tyrell Roberts each dropped 
10 points apiece. Hansen also had 4 blocks and 4 rebounds; Roberts collected 3 assists and 5 rebounds.
The Tritons dominated on points 
in the paint 18–8, second chance opportunity executions 7–0 and points of the bench 16–5, demonstrating their domination inside. Senior guard 
Christian Bayne filled the stat sheet 
securing a team-high 6 rebounds, 
scoring 7 points and adding 2 assists, a steal, and a block.
Although UCSD lost its hot hands 
in the second half, the squad was able to hold on. Its 30–21 defensive rebound advantage and 15–7 assist ratio all game led the Tritons to 
another victory on the road and 
gave them con fidence moving into 
Saturday night’s matchup.
UC San Diego @ Humboldt State
With already one win under its 
belt on this road trip, UCSD was in search of a two-game sweep before the annual Spirit Night competition 
in RIMAC Arena, Thursday Jan. 31. 
Unfortunately, the Tritons came up 
just short in a 65–67 loss against the Lumberjacks on Saturday, Jan. 26. It was just their second CCAA de ficit 
this year.
Aside from scoring the first 3 points 
of the game o ff a 3-point conversion 
from Hansen, UCSD trailed for the 
entire first half. The Tritons were 
uncharacteristically poor from the 
field, shooting just 9–25 from field 
goal range compared to Humboldt State’s 14–29 mark. The blue and gold 
improved to 53.8 percent from the field in the second half but it was not enough to prevail over a challenging 
Humboldt State.
Bayne was the leading scorer for 
UCSD, scoring 19 points and grabbing 
7 rebounds. He was 8–12 from the field and 3–5 beyond the arc. Fellow 
guard Roberts added 18 points, good for second-most on the team, and 3 rebounds.
Entering the second half, the 
Tritons were behind 29–32 and failed 
to regain the lead until a 3-pointer 
from Everman tied it at 49 with a little under 10 minutes remaining. UCSD continued battling all the way down to the wire in a back and forth frenzy. The 
score was tied yet again at 65 with just 50 seconds to go thanks to a successful Bayne jumper for the Tritons.
The Lumberjacks missed 3 
layups in a row but tallied 3 o ffensive 
rebounds in return to make up for their mistakes. A heartbreaking jumper from Humboldt’s freshman point guard Amari Green sealed the deal with just 4 seconds le ft on the 
clock.
While this was no doubt a 
devastating loss,UCSD comes out of 
the weekend still tied for first place 
with California State University, 
East Bay in the CCAA. The Tritons 
conclude the weekend 1–1, pushing their overall record to 16–4 and conference record 11–2. The men will 
return home next Thursday in one of 
the biggest school events of the year against California State University, 
Stanislaus. Tipo ff is set for 7:30 p.m.
Men's BasketballMen’s basketball beats Chico State in road win, loses at last second to Humboldt State. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSCANBY Madeline lewis
senior staff writer 
Madeline Lewis  mblewis@ucsd.edu
Here we go again. For the third 
straight year, and four out of the last 
five, the New England Patriots have 
managed to outcoach their way to yet another Super Bowl. This year they will 
be facing o ff against the talented Los 
Angeles Rams — a rematch of the 2002 Super Bowl. It was just a week ago that the Patriots and the Rams were both underdogs on the road, playing in some of the toughest and most disruptive atmospheres in the league at Kansas City and New Orleans, respectively. Although both games garnered some 
controversy surrounding the o fficiating 
and overtime rules, each matchup had 
fans glued to their seats for the entirety of the game. 
For the first slated game on Sunday, 
the Rams visited the Saints, who were favorites to win the Super Bowl. A fter 
jumping out to a dominating 13–0 lead early in the first quarter, it seemed the 
Saints were on their way to Super Bowl LIII, as they had all the momentum while the home crowd wreaked havoc on the Rams’ off ense. The Rams’ rising 
star quarterback Jared Go ff, NFL 
touchdown leader Todd Gurley, and kid-genius coach Sean McVay were 
held to a mere 15 yards in the first 
quarter, their lowest total in the past 
two years. Go ff often struggled to relay 
plays to the huddle and visibly had trouble receiving play calls through his helmet as the noise in the Superdome was just too deafening. 
However, all momentum began 
to shift when McV ay fearlessly called 
a fake punt from his own 30-yard line. Punter Johnny Hekker threw a missile to veteran Sam Shields, who successfully evaded a tackle, and the Rams picked up their first first down of 
the game. The Saints’ Swiss Army knife 
Alvin Kamara racked up 111 yards on 19 touches, and former Patriots and Saints receiver  Brandin Cooks notched a key 107 yards for the Rams to set up an intense, season-de fining 
fourth quarter of action. A fter the 
Rams marched down the field and tied 
the game at 20–20, Drew Brees led the Saints deep into Rams territory. With just 2 minutes to go, it seemed the game was over, as the Saints could simply run the ball to eat clock. Saints coach Sean Payton, however, questionably decided to pass on first down, which resulted in 
an incompletion, but more importantly 
for the Rams, a stopped clock. 
Two plays later, the Saints were 
faced with a third and 10 from the 
Rams 13-yard line. Brees dropped back to pass and tried to get the ball to Tommylee Lewis on a wheel route, but corner Nickell Robey-Coleman unloaded, hitting Lewis right before he could make a play on the ball. By 
rule, this should be a penalty for pass 
interference; however, o fficials kept the 
flags in their pockets, only ruling the 
play an incompletion. This has become 
an infamous call, as this penalty would have given the Saints the ball with a first down, allowing them a chance to 
advance to the Super Bowl. Instead, after a Will Lutz field goal, the Rams 
received the ball down 23–20 and stormed down the field as receptions 
by Josh Reynolds and Robert Woods set up a Greg “ The Leg” Zuerlein field 
goal, sending the game to overtime. 
Although the Saints won the 
overtime coin toss and could have won 
the game with a touchdown, newly 
crowned NFL passing yards leader Drew Brees had a pass tipped by the Rams’ Dante Fowler, leading to an interception by safety John Johnson III. With the ball at midfield, the Rams only needed a first down to get into 
field goal range and win the game. And 
after a big throw from Go ff, Zuerlein 
connected from 57 yards out to win the game. Even though many football fans across the country certainly enjoyed this playo ff game, New Orleans fans will forever remember it by a blown call that cost them a ticket to the Super Bowl. 
The second game of the day featured 
MVP-favorite Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs taking on four-time Super Bowl winner Tom Brady and the Patriots. The Patriots jumped out 
to a 2-score lead, seizing the upper hand early on. From the get-go, the Patriots had control and set the tone by capping o ff an extended 15-play 
drive with a touchdown, taking the life 
out of Arrowhead Stadium. Standout 
rookie running back Sony Michel was instrumental in the Patriots’ success, propelling his team with 2 early touchdowns and 113 yards. Head coach Bill Belichick also displayed his great defensive mind once again in the playo ffs by employing myriad 
schemes that limited speedy All-Pro 
receiver Tyreek Hill to 1 reception, and 
even more surprisingly only 3 targets. Mahomes and the Chiefs were able to rally back and take a 21–17 lead behind 2 touchdown receptions by unsung hero Damien Williams late in the third quarter. However, everyone knows 
how unstoppable Brady is during the 
postseason, and there was a feeling that no matter what plays the electrifying 23-year-old Mahomes made, or what stunts and coverages longtime defensive coordinator Bob Sutton threw at Brady, Brady was going to pull this one out. Brady kept Chris Hogan, Julian Edelman, and Rob Gronkowski, 
who quietly had one of his best games 
of the year, highly involved throughout the second half, constantly moving the chains down the field and winding up 
in the endzone. The Patriots regained 
the lead a fter Michel’s fifth postseason 
touchdown and sent the ball back to the Chiefs with just three minutes le ft. 
Despite the time remaining, this one 
was far from over. 
The Chiefs got back to their 
identity on this drive — gaining yards 
in bunches and scoring fast — as Williams’ 2-yard rushing touchdown concluded a short drive and put the Chiefs back on top 28–24 with 2:03 le ft 
in the game. 
It was now up to Brady. He 
marched his team right back down the field and scored, giving Mahomes and 
the Chiefs one final shot to make some 
magic happen to try to advance to the Super Bowl. The Chiefs had moved on 
from quarterback Alex Smith in the offseason partly due to his struggles 
in the playo ffs, and they had hoped 
Mahomes could be the guy to push them over the hump into serious Super Bowl contention. Here was his chance. 
Mahomes demonstrated his jaw-
dropping MVP talent as he hit two 20-plus yard passes to Williams and Demarcus Robinson on a drive that was eventually topped o ff by a Harrison 
Butker field goal, sending the game into 
overtime. This marked the first time 
in Conference Championship history that both games ended regulation in a tie and proceeded to the overtime period. 
Since the Patriots won the coin 
toss, it was up to the Chiefs’ defense 
to get a stop. The Chiefs, already a 
lackluster defensive team, had lost star 
defensive lineman Chris Jones for most of the second half and overtime due to injury. Missing Jones definitely hurt the Chiefs’ pass rush, and this was made evident by the Patriots’ onslaught of second-half scoring. Things were not 
looking good for the Chiefs. 
Despite completing only 4 of 9 
passes on the overtime drive, Brady was a surgeon in the pocket, picking apart the Kansas City secondary, completing 3 third downs and tossing a game-winning touchdown to Rex Burkhead. This game was an instant classic as 
Brady, at 41 years old, competed in a shootout with likely-MVP Mahomes, 
showing yet again that he is still elite 
while also continuing the greatest dynasty in the history of sports. Even though the Chiefs failed to advance to the Super Bowl, they had a tremendous season considering the holes in their defense, and with Mahomes at the helm of the team for the near future, 
this should not be their last chance to 
make a Super Bowl. 
As the Super Bowl approaches, 
there are lots of intriguing storylines to delve into. The Rams look to win 
their first Super Bowl as a franchise in 
Los Angeles, while the New England Patriots hope to secure a record-tying sixth Lombardi trophy. This 
will be a battle between juggernaut coaches, as Rams coach McV ay, a 33-year-old o ffensive mastermind 
who has constructed the best statistical offense in football, takes on perhaps 
the greatest coach in NFL history in Belichick, who at 66 years old remains able to consistently suppress high-pro file offenses. If the Rams win 
the game, it would make McV ay the youngest coach to win the Super Bowl. On the other hand, if the Patriots win, Belichick would be the oldest head coach to win it all. 
Media week prior to the Super 
Bowl will also be the first time Patriots 
linebacker coach and defensive play caller Brian Flores will get to speak since taking the head coaching position for the Miami Dolphins for next season. Bay Area natives Go ff 
and Brady headline the quarterback matchup, as Go ff hopes to usher in 
the NFL ’s next dynasty, while Brady looks to win himself and the Patriots a 
record-tying sixth championship. 
If the past two Patriot Super Bowl 
games are any indication of what’s in 
store, then Super Bowl LIII should live up to all the hype. Make sure to tune into CBS this Sunday, Feb. 3 to watch these two teams battle it out to build their legacies and make history. 
BY hayden wellbeloved
contributing writer
ha yden wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.eduNFL Conference Championship Weekend Recap13th-ranked Tritons Split the Weekend Series Up North