Around 100 students gathered at 
the Silent Tree in front of Geisel 
Library in remembrance of those 
who were killed in the Sri Lankan 
Easter Sunday bombings on Tuesday, April 23. Hosted by UC San Diego's Sri Lankan Student Association, the 
vigil included speeches from several 
student leaders.
Three Christian churches and three hotels were bombed by terrorists in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday, April 21, killing approximately 250 people and injuring over 500.  Two days later, terrorist group Islamic State 
of Iraq and Syria, ISIS, claimed 
responsibility for the attack.
Three student speakers from the 
Sri Lankan Student Association 
shared their personal experiences in 
Sri Lanka and expressed their shock and devastation for this tragedy. Later on, they conducted a minute of silence.
Nirosh Mataraarachchi, the 
president of the Sri Lankan Students Association, said that he hosted this vigil to show the power of unity.
“In order to show the power of 
solidarity and coalition, we wanted to have this vigil” , Mataraarachchi said. 
 Meanwhile, Mataraarachchi, 
who helped establish Sri Lankan A climate change rally took place in front of the Silent Tree outside Geisel Library on Earth Day, April 22, to gain support from Associated 
Students and the UC Administration for the Green New Deal. UC San Diego faculty members and different representatives from student organizations and outside organizations attended the rally to speak on issues 
centered on climate change, such as environmentalism 
in the historical perspective, social equity, and immigration. 
The rally demonstrating the social, political, and 
economic effects of climate change was organized by 
Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Gio Tamacas, 
who developed the event independent of any student organization. The rally included speeches from Tamacas, representatives from the Student Sustainability 
Collective, and professors at UCSD and Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography. Several organizations outside of UCSD were also present, including the San Diego Sunrise Movement, the San Diego Raven Corps, and several immigration activists from Border Angels. 
Tamacas stated that the goal of the Climate Strike was 
to “urge Associated Students and the UC administration to pass a resolution in support of a Green New Deal. ” 
In the description for the Facebook event, Tamacas 
wrote “In order to save human civilization, we need a mass movement that vehemently opposes Big Oil and its special interest. This strike demands our elected officials support the Green New Deal to transform our country to 100 percent renewable energy, in 10 years, 
based on the fundamentals of social, economic, and 
environmental justice. ”
“The 2018 report also warns that the impending 
climate disaster would cause: mass extinction, mass 
migration, genocide, drought, famine, floods, killer-
heatwaves, uninhabitable regions of the world, the spread of infectious diseases, and war, ” Tamacas wrote.
Another speaker at the rally was Student Sustainability Collective Energy and W aste Director Bryant Jew who spoke about equity in the environmental movement. Jew decided to speak at the rally after Tamacas presented 
the idea of the Climate Rally at an SSC meeting. 
“I say sadly since the environmental movement has 
a bit of a dark history as a movement run by and for 
white people, ” Jew told the UCSD Guardian. “In these 
movements, people of color and other marginalized 
groups have few [opportunities] to benefit from the efforts of the environmental movement, and in some cases, the environmental movement has further disenfranchised minority groups. Even the father of the 
environmental movement and the namesake of a UCSD 
College, John Muir has a history of racism. ” 
The rally also had student speaker and ERC 
sophomore Karandeep Singh, who advocated for 
prospective Democratic presidential candidate Bernie 
Sanders by showcasing his take on Climate Change. 
“Sanders recognizes climate change as the greatest 
security threat facing the country and the world, ” Singh said. “Bernie is clear-eyed, and he knows that climate 
change has the potential of displacing 200 million 
people by 2050. ”
An unnamed anti-protestor who wore a gas mask 
and held a communist flag showed up to express his 
disdain for the Climate Strike. He spoke out about how 
he believes that people have become too insensitive to criticism, a clear reference to the poster that he was presenting which was titled: “The Green New Deal is Reactionary and Senseless. ”
“People have shrunk away from criticism, ” the anti-
protester said. “They’re stuck in their own ideas, and when someone criticizes them, they get mad … they don’t accept criticism and think about it and try to 
improve their stance. A lot of the time, maybe the 
motivation is very revolutionary … but the way it comes out, it’s really reactionary and unrelatable to the average population. ”VOLUME 52, ISSUE 24  MONDA Y , APRIL 22, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Sexual Assault 
Prevention 
Advocate Speaks at 
Solidarity Event
Karasek spoke about her experiences with 
sexual assault, and the #MeTooMovement.
CAMPUS
Vigil Held in Rememberance of  Sri Lankan Easter Sunday 
Vince Staples commands the crowd at Sun God festival  // Photo by Francesca HummlerThe Associated Students Women’s 
Commission hosted its annual Take 
Back The Night event, an open-mic 
forum for survivors of sexual assault 
and sexual violence and their allies to stand in solidarity with one another. on April 25 on Library W alk. This year’s 
keynote speaker, Sofie Karasek, is a 
co-founder of the survivor advocacy group End Rape on Campus and a proponent of California’s “Y es Means Ye s”  l aw.
Representatives of campus resources 
and organizations such as Therapy Fluffies, Counseling and Psychological Services, CARE at the Sexual Assault 
Resource Center, and It’s On Us were 
present at TBTN. The UC San Diego Daughters of Triton, an all-female a capella group, performed at the event as well.
According to co-chair of the AS 
Women’s Commission Hannah Truong, Take Back The Night first began at UCSD in 2007 as part of 
the “Teal is The New Black”  series of 
events in commemoration of Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month in April. 
“Teal is The New Black [carried] the 
message that sexual assault awareness and prevention wouldn’t go out of style until we put an end to all [forms] 
of sexual violence, ” Truong told the 
UCSD Guardian. “Since then, Take Back the Night has become an annual event at UCSD. ”
Karasek began her speech by 
describing her personal experience with sexual assault during her time at UC Berkeley and the university’s failure to help her seek justice. She then spoke 
at length about how her advocacy 
against campus sexual assault began when she connected with students at other universities, such as University 
of North Carolina - Chapel Hill and 
Occidental College in Los Angeles, who also felt that their respective institutions were mishandling similar cases of sexual assault and violence.
“We [had] these stories that aren’t 
about us at all; this is something that is much more expansive, ” Karasek said in her speech. “[Sexual assault and violence] is an epidemic that people 
are experiencing all across the country, 
all over the world. ”
Karasek went on to acknowledge the 
changing national dialogue regarding 
sexual assault and violence over the 
past few years, focusing particularly on the #MeToo Movement. She also commented on the importance of “emotional accountability” for 
survivors to begin the healing process.
Karasek concluded by talking about 
her new adovcacy campaign for rape 
and sexual assault survivors, In My 
Words, which aims to “put a face to By Madeline Leon  Senior Staff Writer  & Tanaya Sawant  StafF Writer  ACTIVISM
Students Organize Climate Strike to Support Green New DealPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
"If you believe being blind 
means living in a state 
of constant darkness, 
then you may be 
contributing to a harmful 
misconception."
SOUTHERN  STATES
SUNGOD  MORE  THAN   THEIR   STEREOTYPES
ARTISTS  AND  ATTRACTIONS Opinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“[Urbanization] boosts the 
economy and allows the 
area to delve into a variety 
of industries that extend 
past farming, giving way 
to  the development of 
major headquarters for 
companies like Lenovo, 
Microsoft, and SAS."MONDAY
 H 65 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 57
TUESDAY
H 65 L 58
THURSDAY
H 73 L 59
ARMENIAN GENOCIDE....2
PEEKS AND PREVIEWS...7
BOOKSTORES...............11
BASEBALL.....................16
WATERPOLO.................16CAMPUS
Rajee Ganeesan
PAGE 4The event was held two days following the Easter Sunday tragedy, which a ffected cities throughout Sri Lanka.
BY  Vivian Yang
Staff WriterBY  Troy Tuquero
Staff writerA BLIND SPOT
FOR THE BLIND
Features, page 6
See VIGIL,  page 2 See SOLIDARITY ,  page 3See CLIMATE,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
A TRUE MASTER By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianAround 100 community 
members gathered on Warren 
Mall to hold a candlelight vigil 
commemorating the 104th 
anniversary of the Armenian genocide. The crowd included students from the UC San Diego 
Armenian Student Association and 
San Diego State University, as well as community members from a local Armenian church and the greater San Diego area.
The Armenian genocide was the 
killing of 1.5 million Armenians by the government of the Ottoman Empire from 1914-1923. The 
classification of the mass killings 
as genocide remains controversial because while the Armenian community considers the murders a genocide, they are not unanimously 
recognized by the international 
community as such. Many countries and governments have yet to do so in order to maintain positive 
relations with Turkey.
The vigil, which was hosted 
by the UCSD Armenian Student 
Association, centered around a replica of the Tsitsernakaberd, a 
monument in Armenia that was 
built to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the genocide in 1965. The event began with an opening 
prayer and short speech from Father 
Pakrad Berjekian from the St. John Garabed Armenian Apostolic 
Church. His speech touched on the 
gravity that the Armenian genocide holds over a century later.
“104 years have elapsed and 
justice is yet to be found and taken from the dusty cupboards of history, ” Father Berjekian said. “However, under the silent downcast eyes of the world today, two people know it well 
what happened 104 years ago. Those 
two people are the butcher and the victim. Today, we do not grieve the pain of the loss of our beloved ones 
as much as we disdain the denial of 
the criminal himself and those who keep avoiding holding him to the genocide. ”
After Father Berjekian spoke, 
students from the ASA performed several Armenian songs and spoken word pieces. Roses were placed in the middle of the crowd in 
remembrance of those who were 
killed in the genocide.
A member from the UCSD 
ASA, who chose not to identify themselves, explained to the UCSD 
Guardian the importance to the 
Armenian community of holding commemorative events for the Armenian genocide every year.
“The Candlelight Vigil serves 
to commemorate the Armenian genocide of 1915 when 1.5 million Armenians lost their lives at the hands of the Ottoman Empire, ” the 
representative said. “The genocide 
is recognized by very few countries, and reparations have not yet been made. The United States does not 
recognize the genocide on a federal 
level; however, 49 of 50 states have declared their recognition. ” 
The representative continued by 
discussing how the global Armenian community continues to honor this day of recognition.
“On the global scale, Armenians 
everywhere commemorate on this 
day, ” the representative said. 
“In Los Angeles, they hold one of 
the largest protest marches annually. 
Our ultimate goal is to mourn and 
commemorate, as well as spread 
awareness of our history, demanding recognition of the atrocious events. ”
The commemorative events 
began with the ASA tabling 
throughout the week on Library 
Walk, which was followed by two events held in collaboration between the ASA and the St. John Garabed 
Armenian Apostolic Church. The 
Veradartz Armenian Cultural Show was held on Friday, April 26, which included performances from Armenian students and community 
members.
Likewise, on Sunday, April 28, 
the St. John Garabed Armenian 
Apostolic Church held an Armenian 
cultural celebration following its 
regularly scheduled weekly service. According to Father Berjekian and several members of the ASA, it's important to hold events of 
celebration for the Armenian culture 
after a week of grieving in order to highlight the positive history and culture of Armenia.
A majority of the participants 
at the event were UCSD students. Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Ellen Khachatryan 
said that it’s important for the 
community to come together to recognize the Armenian genocide.
“[The] UCSD ASA's annual 
candlelight vigil not only serves 
to commemorate the atrocities of 
the Armenian genocide in 1915, but it unifies and bonds San Diego's Armenian community, ” 
Khatchatryan said. “It is important 
that people come out to acknowledge the genocide that Turkey [continues to] deny to this day. The lives of 1.5 million will not be forgotten. ”
The UCSD ASA is an on-campus 
organization with over 100 members with the goal to “foster and promote Armenian culture and heritage to 
the UC San Diego Community.” 
It holds a Candlelight Vigil in commemoration of the Armenian genocide every year on April 24th, the internationally recognized day 
of remembrance for the genocide.
BY  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor
Jacob Sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.orgSAN DIEGO
UCSD Students Commemorate the 104th Anniversary of  the Armenian Genocide
The candelight vigil included speeches, songs, and a moment of silence in recognition of the historically contested tragedy.
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Beware the ghost of the finger.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Editor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarWhile the identity of the anti-
protester remains unknown, this is not 
the first time he showed up to counter 
student demonstrations. On April 20, 
2018, the same anti-protester showed up in the same outfit to counterprotest the UCSD Walkout/March Against 
Gun Violence.
“I believe in freedom of speech, ” 
Tamacas said. “I believe in the free 
exchange of ideas and people can 
criticize others’ beliefs as much as they 
want, and that’s what democracy looks 
like. ” 
Tamacas announced that he will 
be starting a fossil fuel divestment campaign at the UC level and a petition to demand the UC administration to 
divest from fossil fuels. 
“I would also like to point out a clear 
hypocrisy by the UC system, ” Tamacas 
said. “The UC System is investing millions and billions of dollars in fossil fuels, natural gas, and oil, while at the same time, touting that they’re world leaders in sustainability and want to 
transform the UC system towards 
renewable energy by 2025. I demand personally [that Chancellor Pradeep Khosla] demand an imminent vote 
and set a concrete date, or at least push 
for a concrete vote, for divestment. ” 
This latest UCSD Climate Strike is a 
part of a series of global climate change 
demonstrations. On May 24, over a 
thousand cities worldwide will strike 
in the youth-led Global Climate Strike 
for Future. Tamacas can be reached at 
gtamacas@ucsd.edu. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
A counter-protestor carried a Communist flag.
▶ CLIMATE , from page 1
Speakers emphasized the importance of  student and international solidarity in light of  tragedies.
▶ VIGIL , from page 1MADELINE LEON  m7leon@ucsd.edu
Tanaya Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.eduKarasek: Institutional responses a necessity. 
▶ SOLIDARTY , from page 1
Troy Tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.eduaccountability, justice and healing”
“We need institutional responses to 
sexual harm that prioritize both justice 
and healing, not one at the expense at 
the other, ” Karasek said in closing. “I’m hopeful that In My Words can bring to light what survivors truly desire. ”
Junior David Sibrian and event 
volunteer told the UCSD Guardian that he felt that Karasek’s speech 
carried an ins piring message.  
“It takes a lot of courage to be up 
there and I really appreciate [Sofie 
Karasek] for being so vulnerable, ” 
Sibrian said. “We really need to start 
talking about these issues. We hold this event every year, and I feel like we should continue to empower 
everyone. ”
When asked by the Guardian 
what she felt was one of the biggest 
takeaways from her speech, Karasek acknowledged the need for further dialogue regarding the issues she presented.
“There is power in sharing your 
story in connection with other people because it brings private suffering into public view, ” Karasek said. “I think it can be really hard to do that if the 
culture on campus is not used to doing 
that — and it’s hard to speak out — but there is power in doing so with other 
people in particular. ”
Take Back The Night events have 
taken place all over the world since 
1976 with the mission of ending all 
forms of sexual, relationship, and 
domestic violence. The conversation around sexual assault awareness and prevention is an ongoing one, both at 
UCSD and nationwide. 
 
Student Associations on other UC 
campuses, reached out to the other campuses to host vigils. UC Irvine, UC Davis and UC Berkeley all held 
their own.
 A l t h o u g h  m a n y  s t u d e n t s  
expressed their grief for the event, 
they also shared a universal hope 
for solidarity.
 Speaker Mihiri Kotikawatta, 
an undergraduate student from 
Colombo, one of the cities in which an attack was staged, expressed her 
hope for the Sri Lankan community.
 “I have no doubt that with the 
love and support of the rest of the 
world, our island will survive, ” said 
Kotikawatta in her speech.
 Another student speaker, Ruvani 
Fonseka, delivered a similar message calling for strength and integrity.
 “If anything positive can come 
out of such a dark event, I hope 
that we can become closer, find 
solidarity with one another, and 
help each other through this hard time, ”  Fonseka said.  
Elizabeth Simmons, the Executive 
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, pointed out that, although the tragedy appears distant from the United States, it still has an impact on students at UCSD because the 
campus has both international 
students and students with families outside of the U.S. Therefore, it is especially important at this point for 
students to show compassion and 
care for the students around them.
“Remember that some of the students around you might be impacted by Sri Lanka, by Christchurch, by Pittsburgh, ” Simmons said to the Guardian after 
giving a speech at the vigil. “Be 
compassionate with your classmates, roommates and reach out to them. That is something that students can 
do for one another. ” 
Students from multiple religions 
gathered at the vigil and prayed 
for the tragedy in Sri Lanka. A student from the Muslim Student 
Association at UCSD expressed 
gratitude for the support they received after the mass shooting that took place in a  New Zealand 
mosque last month and said they 
want to offer the same support to the rest of the community. The student from the MSA also 
said that religious tension is incited by individuals who want to provoke hate and divisions, and that these 
individuals who carried out the 
attacks do not represent the entire religious community as a whole.
The Sri Lanka Student Association 
created a UC-wide fundraiser event with the Sri Lanka Red Cross Society to alleviate the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. The funds raised in this event will go to projects 
that provide immediate needs and 
psychological support to those affected.
Vivian Y ang  yiy288@ucsd.edu
Like and 
Follow the 
guardian 
on 
Faceb o o k 
to stay up 
to date 
with what's 
happening 
on campus4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
By  Wael  Al-DELAIMY    Professor of PUBLIC HEALTH, UCSD
See COMMENCEMENT,  page 5
The Problem with Southern Stereotypes
ByRajee Ganesan    staff writer
The southern region of the United States gets a bad rap, and it’s obvious why; it’s 
home to some of the nation’s most revered Confederate monuments, the birthplace of 
slavery and the thirteen colonies, and the ominous “Bible Belt”. However, it’s also the beloved origin of  “Southern Hospitality”, sweet tea and well-known country artists like Blake Shelton, Kacey Musgraves, and Carrie Underwood. 
The South is portrayed across a variety of media platforms as religion-crazy, 
impoverished and overridden by white supremacists. This portrayal was exacerbated following the election of the current president, Donald Trump, who effectively mobilized voters from the South in the 2016 race. His followers, usually characterized as neo-nazis and white-supremacist leaders further the idea that Southerners are heavily biased against social justice. However, the Southern region of the United States is quickly becoming one of the more technologically advanced and urbanized areas of the country, and it’s time we put the “hillbilly” narrative to rest.
Trump’s main sell across the southern states 
was his economic policy, and that’s one of the primary reasons his campaign garnered major support in the area. Many industries in the south, including coal, have begun deteriorating in the last decade. Our president’s economic policy initially provided some interest in reviving the Southern economy and was one of the main reasons that he received a plethora of support from the Southern demographic. Although there are populations in the South who are radical racists and anti-LGBTQ, many of the “Make America Great Again” campaign supporters follow the Republican party simply due to the favorable financial benefits that were overlooked in past presidential terms.
The southern states have long been characterized as agricultural powerhouses, and 
there’s no lie there; state fairs 
are held yearly where farmers 
show off their livestock, 
vendors roast whole turkey 
legs and watch bull riders 
try their hand in the ring. 
However, the region has become well-known for its high levels of urbanization, and the rapid development of cities such as Charlotte, Atlanta, and Nashville.This, in turn, boosts the economy and allows the area to delve into a variety of industries that extend past farming, giving way to  the development of major headquarters for companies like Lenovo, Microsoft, and SAS. The Research Triangle Park in North Carolina hosts a variety of biotechnology and branches of the NIH, IQVIA, and Cisco, and is a major hub for advancements in bioengineering, technology and anything in between. 
The region, which is well known for its low education rankings, is slowly 
improving. It is home to some of the best agricultural and engineering programs 
in the country, and their education system is rapidly developing after new state funding allotments. Universities such as Georgia Institute of Technology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Rice University are all repeatedly making it into top college ranking lists, and producing groundbreaking research across a variety of fields, from public health and philosophy to computer science and technical engineering. 
The South may be well-known for its systematic 
oppression against African Americans, but that too is making slow but steady improvements. Students at UNC tore down a Confederate monument of Silent Sam, in an act of defiance 
against the administration, and in solidarity with black students on campus. Although discrimination still occurs across the country and especially in the South, progress in terms of racial equity is, and will continue, for generations to follow.
As the southern states experience yet another population boom, making the area 
the most populous in the entire country, it’s prime time to reassess our values and views towards what we know as “hillbilly country.” While some ideas and stereotypes still remain, like the eminence of horseback riding and sweet tea, the South is quickly becoming one of the more technologically-advanced and urbanized regions of the United States, and it’s imperative we look beyond what meets the eye.
“[Urbanization] boosts the economy and 
allows the area to delve into a variety 
of industries that extend past farming, 
giving way to  the development of major 
headquarters for companies like Lenovo, 
Microsoft, and SAS.”
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
STAC
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEEThese meetings are biweekly
and open to the public.The Student Transportation Advisory Committee  
is a board of student representatives from each of the 
six college councils, the Graduate Student Association, 
and the Associated Students designed to advise 
Transportation Services and other UCSD administrators 
on the execution of the UPass program and various 
Transportation and Parking issues on campus.
College representatives can be reached via their college 
councils and STAC leadership can be reached via 
stac@ucsd.edu. Feel free to send any questions or 
concerns you would like addressed at STAC to this email 
or AS's general contact form at as.ucsd.edu.
SKYRIM   
By System 32
compelled 
by one of our 
Opinions? 
respond with 
a Letter to the 
Editor!
opinion@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
Most Americans, as “sighted” people, have an inaccurate idea of 
what it means to be blind. They think of “nothing” or “total 
darkness, ” but that’s usually the extent of their description. 
In reality, the term “legally blind” is a strictly legal term that determines eligibility for disability benefits. It’s a non-medical umbrella term that 
covers both those who are totally blind and those with low vision. “Totally 
blind” comes closest to most people’s idea of “blindness” — lacking in any 
light and form perception. However, this stereotypical view often only 
accounts for a minority of those who are technically “blind. ” According to 
the American Foundation for the Blind, only 15 percent of those who are 
“legally blind” have total vision loss. The other 85 percent suffer from “low 
vision, ” which generally refers to permanent vision loss that interferes with 
daily activities and cannot be corrected with regular glasses, contact lenses, 
medicine, or surgery. This means that 85 percent of those considered 
“legally blind” may, in fact, have some vision.
This is important because while those in the sighted community don’t 
understand what it’s like to be “blind, ” they are still the ones responsible 
for accommodating the blind. However, their objectives often include 
projecting their own interpretations. Those who do wish to help fail to 
recognize that a “blind” person is just as capable as a sighted person 
is once they are equipped with the right tools. Those who wish to 
profit conveniently justify diverting time away from creating accessibility 
features, since they have the false impression that the blind aren’t using 
their products anyway. This negative feedback approach to product design 
leaves vision-impaired people to fend for themselves, regardless of any 
good intentions sighted people may have. 
Jimmy Cong is a legally blind, functionally low-vision student at 
UC San Diego. He primarily uses a white cane to make his way around 
campus, although sometimes he uses echolocation to detect obstacles. As 
a recent Sixth College graduate who completed his double major in music 
composition and visual arts: digital media last fall, he is well aware that 
his degree choices seem unconventional for someone in his shoes. But 
graduating hasn’t stopped his involvement in disabled student advocacy 
as the ADA Access Specialist for the UCSD Office for Students with 
Disabilities. 
“They were like, ‘ A blind kid in an 
art class? What are we going to do about 
that?’ , ” Cong said, recalling the first time 
he took an art and video class before 
college.
Do nothing, Cong specifically 
requested. He didn’t want to cut corners, 
and he didn’t want to receive a watered-down version of a class just because of his 
disability.
Universities have long held different 
standards for sighted and vision-impaired students,  assuming that disabled students will inherently struggle more in 
class than their abled peers. Cong contends that this is unfair. Why should 
some students have to accept a less rigorous, lower-quality education when 
they were accepted to the same school as their sighted classmates on their 
own individual merit?
In a video on the OSD website titled “Steps for Universal Access in 
Courses, ” Cong details the less condescending strategies that professors can 
use to make their courses more accessible. These methods include easily 
implementable fixes such as making course materials available online in 
advance so that they can be converted into accessible formats, or describing 
the contents of the board when pointing to them, instead of just referring to them as “this” and “that. ”
 The video’s message is simple and reassuring: You don’t have to change 
your curriculum for your blind students; they are not helpless like the stereotype suggests. You just need to be willing to work with them.  
 Aside from these course tweaks and OSD resources, technological aids 
are available to blind and low vision students as well — some exclusively at 
UCSD. However, gaps still linger. For many, it’s clear that universities too 
often overlook their visually impaired and disabled students.
 Lucas de Abreu Maia is a Ph.D. candidate in UCSD’s department of 
political science and has taught numerous 
undergraduate political science courses. 
Maia spent several years as a journalist 
in his home country of Brazil, and 
he currently writes a bi-weekly op-ed 
column for Brazilian magazine piauí.  
Maia is also blind and gets around 
campus with the help of his guide dog. 
At times, though, he still has difficulty 
navigating UCSD’s terrain.
 “I think the campus could be a lot 
more accessible in terms of its geographic 
design. This a driving campus. Paths can be very confusing for those of us who can’t see, ” Maia explained.
 Indeed, UCSD is made of many windy, poorly-paved asphalt and dirt 
paths that snake through campus. 
 In addition to simply navigating from class to class, it can be dangerous 
for visually-impaired students just to even come to campus if they’re 
taking the bus at Gilman Transit Center. Most major crosswalks in San Diego play an audible chime in addition to the traditional light-up signs 
to indicate when it is safe to cross. However, the crosswalk at Gilman and  
Wha t  the  Sighted  Don't  See
If you believe being blind means living in a state of constant darkness, 
then you may be contributing to a harmful misconception.
By CAILIN  LIU      STAFF Writer
“Why should some students have 
to accept a less rigorous, lower-
quality education when they were 
accepted to the same school as 
their sighted classmates on their 
own individual merit?”
Jimmy Cong demonstrates Aira, a new device designed to help visually 
impaired students navigate their surroundings on campus
See SIGHT,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
Myers — arguably one of the busiest intersections on campus — is 
not one of them. This means visually-impaired pedestrians are stuck relying on clues from traffic sounds and other pedestrians, or more 
frighteningly, making their best guess and praying that no cars come 
speeding through the light. 
Despite these clear oversights, however, UCSD has made strides in 
other areas. The university recently partnered with a new technology 
startup called Aira to help blind and low-vision students improve 
their day-to-day campus life. Aira essentially connects users with a 
24/7 live personal assistant to help process visual information when 
no accessibility options are available. For example, Cong uses Aira to 
read bus route numbers or see when it is safe to cross the street. UCSD 
is the first university in the to provide free Aira access to all visually-
impaired users at its La Jolla, Scripps Institute of Oceanography, and 
Hillcrest campuses.
 Other technological aids work to level the playing field between 
sighted and blind students in class. Cong demonstrated the usage of 
BrailleSense Polaris, an accessibility device that runs Android OS 
and has a keyboard that can type and output Braille. Polaris makes 
it possible for the user to quickly take notes, open Word or PDF 
documents, use accessible Android apps, and more, all in Braille. 
And for quick notes, he uses a device called a slate and stylus which 
enables him to create the raised Braille dots on paper instantly. 
 For computer accessibility, visually-impaired students have a 
handful of options, some more intuitive than others.
 “I use Apple’s native screen reader, VoiceOver. It comes pre-
installed on Mac and iPhone. One just has to activate it, ” Maia said. 
Maia has also used PC screen readers such as NonVisual Desktop 
Access and Job Access with Speech. But he notes that Windows 
notably trails Mac in terms of built-in accessibility design. While 
these and many other accessibility programs are available for PC 
systems, the effort required to install them is cumbersome even for 
the non-visually impaired. 
“Every Mac has Zoom built in. Windows sucks in terms of 
accessibility,” Cong said. This 
speaks to a larger industry issue 
where accessibility features are 
treated as an afterthought, an issue 
for a neglected minority to grapple 
with, rather than a necessity in 
order to cover companies’ whole 
user base. It’s not just universities that overlook the needs of the 
visually impaired, but companies as 
well. Microsoft, for example, found 
it wholly unnecessary to invest in 
accessibility focus group testing or release updates addressing these 
problems, despite knowing that certain users would need them.
At a glance, it seems the obvious solution is, why not try another 
product? Unfortunately, the monopolization of big tech means 
everyone has just one viable option. And what we found is that much 
of the industry standard digital media software consistently overlooks 
the needs of the visually-impaired. This poses a frustrating challenge 
for Cong, as a music composition and visual arts: digital media 
graduate. 
“The reason I use Serato DJ Pro even though it’s not accessible at 
all is that it’s used in the industry and it’s not going to flake out on 
you. It would be easy to make it accessible because [the program] is 
just a list of songs; it doesn’t require vision at all. ”
 Opting for non-industry standard software instead means inviting 
potential bugs and troubleshooting issues as well as a significant hiring disadvantage. Colleagues unfamiliar with the software would 
not be able to help Cong if any problems arose, and employers are 
less than thrilled about hiring someone who would require them to 
implement a whole new software system that no other employees use. 
Cong calls this sighted-users-only product design mentality “separate 
but equal” — “It’s equal because you can use it, but it’s still a separate 
program. ”
Separate but equal, as history would tell us, is never a good idea. Sometimes, visually-impaired users are forced to forgo the 
industry standard in favor of something that’s actually usable. Last year, Cong chose to move away from the film-editing industry standard of Adobe Photoshop and Premiere Pro in favor of Apple’s highly accessible but less popular editing software, Final Cut Pro. 
While editing is exponentially quicker and much less of a headache, 
his work is now incompatible with the bulk of film editors’ . And in 
music composition, a separate but equal option is not even available 
— there is currently no accessible music notation software used by 
the industry.
 Cong has reached out to many software developers about the 
prospect of implementing accessibility features in their products. The 
most common, and disheartening, response he receives: “Because 
disability falls within one percent of the user base, we aren’t interested 
in making this a priority at the moment. ”
 Cong hopes to pursue a Ph.D. in accessibility where he can 
conduct research on creating accessible music notation software, in 
the hopes that he and others like him can score films in the future.
And that’s the current “industry standard” for the visually-
impaired — creating their own solutions to achieve a level-playing 
field in their careers.
Cong’s determination and skill is comforting and inspiring, 
but also a stark reminder of how many large companies have the 
resources for a solution but choose to sweep it under the rug instead. 
I wanted to know if UCSD was sending its students out into the 
world ready to remedy these institutional problems. This school has 
taken clear steps to provide the best resources to its own disabled 
students, but what about for future disabled people everywhere? 
Does a UCSD education challenge students to become creators and 
innovators who consider the experiences of minorities? 
“In my design classes they give you a target audience that you’re 
designing for. We haven’t done anything about accessibility for vision 
disabilities yet, ” said Jordynn Bartolome, a Sixth College senior 
studying design and interaction in the department of cognitive 
science.
However, the foundations for thoughtful design are there — “The 
only example I can think of is one 
class where we had to design an app 
for the elderly, so we had to think 
about the type of accessibility issues 
they experience because they’re 
different from someone who’s our 
age. ”
“The biggest idea in my major 
is, ‘Y ou are not the user. ’ Y our goal shouldn’t be to create what’s 
easier for you, but what would be 
more advantageous for the user, ” 
Bartolome said.
Many of the same features that make products more user-friendly 
for the elderly would also be similarly beneficial for the visually-impaired. Yet the former is far more likely to be implemented. 
When asked what she thought might be an explanation for this 
disparity, Bartolome ventured:
“ A lot of people think using software or technology is a visual 
domain, so blind or visually-impaired people aren’t the target 
demographic. I think people just aren’t considering it. ”
And now we’ve finally traveled full circle. Lack of accessibility 
comes from, at its core, a lack of understanding. While it may be true 
that those who are totally blind, or lacking in any sight, may have 
less of an interest in visual technology, there is still the 85 percent 
of the visually-impaired community that can use visual software and 
deserve to be recognized as users.
 One company told Cong that the accessibility issues he experienced 
may be on Apple’s end. “I can literally link you to Apple’s website right now where it tells developers how to make things accessible, ” he fired 
back. They did not respond. 
 The solutions are already out there, but no one’s come looking for 
them.
I’d like to thank Jimmy Cong and Lucas de Abreu Maia for sharing 
their valuable insights and experience with me. Learn more about 
Jimmy’s music at jimmycong.com and Lucas’ research and reporting at 
lucasamaia.com.
CAILIN  LIU   CAL112@ucsd.edu▶ SIGHT , from page 6
“At a glance, it seems the 
obvious solution is, why not try 
another product? Unfortunately, 
the monopolization of big tech 
means everyone has just one 
viable option.”SUN GOD 2019
One of Sun God Festival’s definite highlights was Hayley Kiyoko, “Lesbian Jesus” herself. Beginning her set 
by declaring her intent to “sing some songs about girls, ” she delivered with favorites 
like “Girls Like Girls, ” “Sleepover, ” and “Curious. ” Kiyoko’s 
baggy prints, thrusting hips, and meaningful looks into the 
audience resulted in her spending the second half of the set dodging stray bras thrown by girls pushing their way to the front of the stage. Hardly shy, she took her admirers in stride, 
and her interactions with the audience were characteristically 
genuine and sweet, always encouraging her listeners to be their best selves. Loud, pop-y, and lovesick, the set was everything you could hope for from a Hayley Kiyoko performance, and unlike many of the artists, she did much more than stand in one 
place. Other than her signature pride flag waving, she danced 
her way through most of the instr umentals — and even played 
guitar and drums at points. No matter what she did, however 
innocuous, the crowd went wild. With her devoted following, it’s not hard to see how she earned her nickname.
     
                                                   —  CHLOE  ESSER
                                                A&E Editor
The second-to-last set of the day was famed emo-mumble rapper Joji, formerly known as Filthy Frank. The 
man stumbled onto the stage as though he had just rolled out of bed, as re flected both in his out fit (a night robe 
over sweats) and the rough start to the set. Technical di fficulties riddled the beginning of the performance, but 
once the sound finally kicked in, the show went o ff. Images of cathartic decay from fire illuminated the screens 
behind him, underscoring the self-defeatist attitudes of the lovesick lyrics. What seemed like a couple dozen 
handstands and exclamations of “unblock me, b----” later, the man busted out “Slow Dancing In the Dark, ” his magnum opus of sad boys everywhere. Sleepy, morose, and oddly awkward, the set re flected everything that the 
artist is known for down to a tee.
— TYLER  Faurot
Staff Writer
Reigning from Long Beach, headliner Vince Staples kicked o ff his set with the infectious chorus 
and commercial sound of “Feels Like Summer, ” the opening track from his latest album, “FM!” . As the crowd cheered and applauded for this highly anticipated performance, Staples took a breath 
from his orange inhaler, which he would use multiple times throughout the set to help with his 
asthma. Staples delivered a consistent and high-energy performance. The hour-long set was packed 
with 17 songs, ranging from multiple projects within his discography. Energy pulsated through the crowd as mosh pits formed and stomping bass shook the ground. His more radio-friendly songs, 
like “Fun!” and “Run the Bands” had the audience dancing and bopping along to the more laid back 
and synth melodies. Each song was accompanied by eclectic visuals displayed on a screen. Ranging from marine life to robberies, the visuals were carefully curated, each relating to the themes or lyrics that Staples espoused, no matter how dark some of these themes were. Staples’ ability to balance dark messages of state-sanctioned violence or suicide with humor and electronic beats is what has earned 
him the spot of one of the biggest names in hip-hop today. Staples sprinkled between the songs advice 
on college and life, encouraging audience members to stay in school and study hard. He 
even jokingly proposed a potential job o ffer, saying that if any students 
should become lawyers, that he would most likely need 
legal assistance in the future. Staples ended his set with 
“Yeah Right, ” a song most audience members recognized 
and sang along with. Its catchy chorus, hard-hitting bass, 
and industrial sound  was a perfect way to close out Sun 
God Festival 2019. Overall, Vince Staples delivered an 
explosive performance, giving Sun God attendees a glimpse 
into his lived experiences from the violent streets of Long 
Beach but also his chill personality and sense of humor.
—  Julianna Cov arrubias
Contributing Writer
HAYLEY  KiyokO
JOJI
VINCE  STAPLESPHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHER
PHOTO BY JAMES SONG
PHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLERPHOTO BY JOSHUA BEN-ESCHER
Greetings from Sun God!
The 51-foot waterslide
Only lip syncing allowed at silent disco
On April 27, 2019, UC San Diego celebrated its 37th Sun God Festival. 
Showcasing five artists (who all actually showed up), a 51-foot water slide, a silent disco, food trucks, and infinite spots prime for Insta-worthy shots, 
not even the clouds could dim this Sun God. 
More INFO and PHOTOS  on next pageFollowing Hunny’s performance, Whipped Cream (Caroline Cecil) came onto the stage sporting a pink 
scrunchie and all-white out fit, ready to pump up the crowd as the second act in Sun God’s lineup. However, 
with the exception of a few energetic individuals, she drew a relatively small crowd that grew only slightly in 
size as her performance progressed. Whipped Cream would occasionally shout for people to make some noise, 
but was o ften greeted with a low response. Despite the low energy present in the audience, she enthusiastically 
began her set with a remix of “Bodak Y ellow” by Cardi B, and played several other remixes from the songs “Crank that” by Soulja Boy, “Look at Me” by XXXTentacion, “ Thotiana” by Blueface, Kanye West’s “Stronger, ” 
“Sicko Mode” by Travis Scott, Kendrick Lamar’s “Humble, ” “In My Feelings” by Drake, and “Slide” by Calvin Harris. The transitions between each song o ften seemed awkward and abrupt, disturbing the natural flow of the 
tune and rhythm. For example, the “In My Feelings” remix transitioned to a sudden classical music piece which was then interrupted by a new trap beat. Additionally, the changeover from “Humble” to “Slide” did not flow 
naturally as there was no connecting beat that tied them together but rather, seemed to be mashed next to each 
other in the set song order. In spite of the e ffort clearly displayed by Whipped Cream, the overall execution of 
her set, as well as the poor reaction from the crowd, resulted in a performance that largely greyed in comparison 
to the other artists. 
— ERIN  Chun
Contributing WriterIt’s tricky being the first set at Sun God Festival — most students don’t arrive until halfway through, caring 
more about the headliner than the first few openers. Despite a modest crowd, HUNNY didn’t let this a ffect its 
performance; the group played with the nonchalance and ease of a typical indie group, casually stating, “Here’s 
music that we wrote and that we learned how to play. ” And the trio did just that. From the get go, HUNNY’s 
infectious and energetic brand of indie rock had both fans and casual listeners hopping on their feet and bobbing their heads. Older tracks like “Gilding the Lily” and “Televised” inspired cheerful claps to drum beats, whereas new songs like “Lula, I’m Not Mad” and “Rebel Red” showed more of a surf rock vibe than HUNNY’s typical 
indie coolness. But, the clear highlight of the set appeared at the very end with “Vowels, ” an angsty anthem 
met with plenty of hyped cheers and screams to a chorus composed of the letters “ A, E, I, O, U. ” In the midst of holding a note, lead singer Jason Y arger wandered o ff stage into the field, traveling so far he wondered out loud, 
“W ait, where am I?” The set ended with Y erger sauntering back on stage and announcing a meet and greet in 
half an hour. In just forty minutes, HUNNY played a fantastically fun set — if only more people had seen it. 
— Jahfreen  alam
A&E Associate Editor
This year’s Sun God featured a variety of food and drink options for breaks in between sets. Its wide range of sponsors 
provided free Y erba Mates, Rxbars, Lacroix, and other teas and drinks. For a more substantial bite, Sambazon came with their refreshing acai bowls, and Tasty Bite, boasting the longest line of all, served their nachos. A range of food trucks lined 
the west side of the field, with trucks such as Mangia Mangia Mobile o ffering classic Italian bites and Zs Buddies Sushi 
providing a number of di fferent sushi rolls. Ding Tea, which just opened a new location in La Jolla, was also there with its 
decadent boba drinks. 
— JUSTIN  NGUYEN
Senior Staff WriterTowering over the entire RIMAC Field, the enormous in flatable water slide would catch your eye as soon as you 
walked into the event. The line to go down the slide was never too long, most likely because people either didn’t want to 
get their trendy festival clothes soaked or they were put o ff by how menacingly tall the slide was. Several cubbies were 
provided for storing valuables before going on the slide, making the experience much more convenient and accessible 
for people who may not have had someone to watch over their things. A fter stowing your belongings, you were given 
two different slide experiences to choose from: a more typical water slide path with a smooth angle downwards and one 
that essentially had a 90-degree drop. Although the smoother slide appeared safer to those afraid of the steeper course, 
it definitely le ft its mark on your skin. Even a fter being sprayed down by water to reduce the friction on your back, you 
were bound to get some slide burns going down. Oddly enough, the basically 90-degree slide was much less abrasive and 
a more pleasant experience, but it was admittedly difficult for many people to get past the idea of jumping straight down into the in flatable. While not an incredibly popular venue among Sun God-goers, the water slide was a surprisingly fun 
and simple way to cool down during the festival, especially while waiting for your favorite artist to go on stage. Hopefully, 
the slide burn didn’t make people too uncomfortable for the rest of the day. 
— Steven Zhou
Senior Staff Writer
A silent disco can seem absurd at first glance. If a casual observer without headphones were to walk into one, they 
would see a crowd of sweaty twenty-somethings dancing in silence. Still, there’s a reason they keep popping up all over 
the place — they’re pretty fun. If you haven’t been to a silent disco, its premise is fairly straightforward. Everyone enters 
a silent room (or in the case of Sun God, a mostly-silent tent), puts on wireless headphones tuned to a couple di fferent 
music stations, and dances with their friends to their heart’s content. For 2019’s Sun God Festival, attendees had the option 
to listen to three di fferent stations: Top 40, Latin, and K-pop. It proved an especially fitting activity for a music festival, 
entertaining students between performer sets or o ffering an alternative for students who didn’t want to listen to the main 
performers but still wanted to dance to music. Unlike the lines for vendors, the line for the silent disco tent never got too long or unwieldy. There always seemed to be more than enough headphones to give out and enough room to welcome 
plenty of people, even during its busiest moments. In the case of this year’s silent disco, silence really was golden.
 
— TANY A  NGUYEN
Contributing Writer
WHIPPED  CREAMHunny
Food  at  sun  godWater  Slide
Silent  discoPHOTO BY FRANCESCA HUMMLERPHOTO BY MCKENNA JOHNSON
PHOTO BY JAMES SONG
PHOTO BY JAMES SONGSun God Attractions▶ SUN GOD , from page 9With midterm season now in full swing, the all-nighters of this quarter have also begun. For those who 
leave the studying to the night before a big test, which I can unfortunately relate to, sometimes staying up 
until ungodly hours of the night is necessary to protect our GPAs. As an avid coffee drinker, I am saved by 
the magic of espresso when my situation becomes dire. However, I am aware that many students can’t stand 
the taste of coffee. For those who are not a fan of these magic beans but still need an extra caffeine boost to 
get you through the night, worry not, friends! There are many other alternatives that can get the job done. 
Te a
The great thing about tea is that there are so many different flavors,  so if you get bored with one, there 
are tons of others waiting for you! Different types of teas also range in caffeine levels, so watch which ones you buy. Black tea is the closest equivalent to coffee in terms of energy, while green tea or white tea follow 
behind. Be mindful of the herbal teas, as they might taste nice and fruity but have no caffeine to give you 
a boost. 
Red Bull
As the famous slogan says: “Red Bull gives you wings. ” With around 80 milligrams of caffeine per 8oz 
serving, Red Bull will work the same as coffee. However, these drinks are known to also pack a good amount of sugar in them. I’ d recommend turning to these red and blue cans when necessary as opposed to a daily 
wake up call. 
Matcha
For those not familiar with matcha, it is a finely ground powder of green tea leaves with a signature bright 
green color. It is most commonly mixed into water or milk, both iced and hot. Matcha can come in handy because it has less caffeine than black tea but more than green tea bags. This powder is also known for having 
health benefits if you’re looking for a more natural energy solution to your midterm madness. Some studies 
have even shown that although matcha has less caffeine than coffee, it will give you a calmer alertness that 
lasts longer than an average cup of joe. 
5 Hour Energy
Before I get into the details of this drink, I would advise you to save it only for desperate situations. As the 
average 8oz cup of coffee has around 80 milligrams of caffeine, 5 Hour Energy is but a 2oz bottle filled with about 200 milligrams of caffeine! This drink may get you through your essays, practice tests, and flashcards, 
but beware of a possible crash later on, especially if you are more sensitive to caffeine than others. 
Guayaki Yerba Mate
Personally, I owe much of my academic success to the cans of Enlighten Mint. Guayaki is a somewhat 
recent addition to the UC San Diego campus but are now abundant in every market. Yerba mate is an herbal tea packed with natural energy that will leave you feeling refreshed and awake. Guayaki’s Yerba Mate comes 
in several flavors and a wide range of caffeine levels. These levels are printed on the labels from around 60 
milligrams to 135 milligrams, so be sure to take note of which kind you’re buying! LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
With spring in full swing, San Diego’s 
sunshine is begging you to take a break 
from midterms and enjoy the beautiful weather. Get outside and soak up the sun at the many events happening all 
across the area this month! 
On May 4, head down to Tecolote 
Shores North for the 15th annual San 
Diego Dragon Boat Festival. From 
9 a.m. to 4 p.m., watch dragon boat teams race to the beat of drums along 
Mission Bay. If the sight itself isn’t 
reason enough to check it out, there 
will also be lots of Asian cuisine to 
check out while you watch!
Celebrate Cinco de Mayo all 
weekend long this year at the Fiesta 
Old Town Cinco de Mayo . From 
Friday, May 3 to Sunday, May 5, you 
can go to Old Town Historic Park to 
celebrate Mexican culture in San Diego. 
With free admission, there are all sorts 
of activities and performances to check out: a Ballet Folklorico competition, 
over 40 Latin bands, classic cars on 
“Lowrider Lane, ” and even a Lucha 
Libre Cantina Ring. 
Ready to catch some waves? The 
San Diego Surf Film Festival  brings 
the surf community together for a weekend full of the best international 
surf films, filmmakers, and stars. Enjoy 
opening night on May 9 at the Belly Up Tavern before diving into surfing 
expression sessions, happy hours, and a seven-course farm-to-table dinner and film night. 
Send off the seniors of 2019 with 
a concert by Rico Nasty, Ari Lennox, 
and Destiny Rogers on our very own 
campus! Grab your $5 UC San Diego 
student tickets before the show on May 
14. 
For all of our Game of Thrones fans 
out there, get to The Irenic on Saturday, 
May 18 for the Beers of Thrones Beer 
Festival . Come out and taste over 20 
different medieval craft brews and 
enjoy live music. Don’t forget to get your picture taken on the Iron Throne!
Still looking to get more familiar 
with San Diego? A perfect way to do this is participating in the Amazing 
Scavenger Hunt Adventure ! Inspired 
by the reality show “The Amazing Race,” the scavenger hunt begins 
in Balboa Park and will lead you to 
popular and lesser known gems of San 
Diego. Form a team with some friends 
any day of the month, purchase tickets 
online, and follow the directions of the 
hunt all on your phone!Peeks and Previews: May
By Lifestyle Co-Editors
Caffeine Alternatives for Non-Coffee Drinkers
By Colleen Conradi       Lifestyle Associate Editor12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 9 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Contact the AS Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at asdiversity@mail.ucsd.edu • 858.534.3300UC San Diego Student Health Center and CAPS both 
employ experts in transgender health care, tailored to provide students with personalized medical services.  
There are also dozens of providers within California that are in-network under UC SHIP .
UC SHIP covers:
• Hormone Therapy
• Gender Confirmation Surgery
 - phalloplasty, vaginoplasty, gondal surgery and mastectomies
• Travel Costs
Interested students should contact Student Health Services or CAPS for more information/to schedule an appointment.
Student Health Services: wellness.ucsd.edu/studenthealth
CAPS: wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPSDid you know UC SHIP covers transitional expenses?
HELPING TRITONS IN NEED
Triton Food PantryTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 2pm-5pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 2pm-5pmSPRING 2019Have you ever thought about the people involved in the production and distribution 
of your favorite book? Do you ever feel as though you know or understand the author 
of a book because of how much their work resonated with you? I feel that way about 
countless works that have made an impact on me, and these authors have inspired me 
to dream of writing, and even publishing, a novel one day. Through wanting to connect 
even more to the works I read, I have recently delved into the world of independently 
published novels and focused more on supporting independent and used booksellers. 
Independent booksellers are very important to a community not only for the 
merchandise they provide, but also for the uniqueness that they bring to an area. For 
example, the well-known Warwick’s in La Jolla is a fixture in the community. The 
family-owned business regularly hosts interesting events, sometimes even featuring 
UC San Diego faculty. Purchasing from independent booksellers is also necessary 
for keeping small businesses running while also maintaining low costs for customers. 
The Goodwill chain has some locations that are entirely devoted to used books; they 
carry fiction, non-fiction, cook books, classics, comics, and graphic novels. I have even encountered the occasional textbook or study aid. All of Goodwill’s books are 
reasonably priced, with some copies costing as little as $1, and some nice hardcover 
books only cost upwards of $6 or $7. This is also a great way to support the recycling 
of resources and books, especially since most are in amazing shape! You can also check 
out other used booksellers in the La Jolla area, including D.G. Wills Books (which has 
the largest collection of scholarly books in La Jolla), and our on campus bookstore, 
Groundwork Books, located in the Old Student Center. Independent authors also need your support. There are many self-published book
awards given out in different categories and genres that can help you find a new author 
or book to fall in love with. One in particular, the BookLife Prize, aims to “discover 
great books and support new authors. ” This prize is also sponsored by Publisher’s 
Weekly, and winners receive an author profile in the magazine. Looking into prizes 
like BookLife, which support independent and new authors, is a great way to find new 
and interesting books to read. You can browse lists of featured authors or books in 
your favorite genre. Many people do not realize how impactful purchasing books can be, not only on your own wallets but also on the community. It is time to leave large 
book corporations behind and unlock the potential that small booksellers can have on 
your literary life! Praise for the Independent Bookstore
By Carla Al tomare       Contributing Lifestyle Writer
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
TOMMY PICOTUESDAY, APRIL 30
The Loft @ UCSD, PC East • 6:30pmTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 29 - MAY 52019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each 
week. Materials provided, space is limited. 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
4TH ANNUAL GREEN TALKS - UCSD 
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Welcome to UC San Diego's fourth annual Green 
Talks! This program is a TED Talk-style 
conference specifically geared towards 
environmental awareness. This free event aims to engage and promote the UC San Diego student body and community about sustainability and the importance of being environmentally conscious through one’s actions. 
5pm
CAROLINA MONTEJO-SCREENING 
ROOM, 219 VISUAL ARTS FACILITY, UC SAN DIEGO
Reception: April 26, 5:30-7:30 p.m. //Leffas: 
Small Fusion, is an experimental science fiction film in which plant and human worlds are mystically combined. Through the story of the Green Rose, an Amazonian plant with hallucinogenic properties, and its encounter with Andreas, a conventional western man living in the city, Leffas: Small Fusion explores fear as a point of entry with new life forms and ideas. 
6:30pm
TOMMY PICO - THE LOFT @ UCSD
Come listen to a poetry read by Tommy Pico! Here's a little short bio beforehand: Tommy Teebs Pico is an Indigenous, queer poet who is the author of books "IRL", winner of the 2017 Brooklyn Library Literary Prize, "Nature Poem", and the zine series "Hey, Teebs." Pico was also the founder and editor in chief of birdsong, an antiracist/ queer-positive collective, small press, and zine that published art and writing from 2008-2013. Originally from the Viejas Indian reservation of the Kumeyaay nation, he now lives in Brooklyn where he co-curates the reading series, Poets with Attitude, with Morgan Parker, co-hosts the podcast Food 4 Thot, and is a contributing editor at Literary Hub. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu.  
5:30pm
FINANCIAL LITERACY FOR COLLEGE 
STUDENTS- CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER COMUNIDAD ROOM
Learn to obtain and use credit wisely, create 
credit history and score, develop a budget, track spending, student loan repayment options, retirement and more. Contact: cbardier@ucsd.edu. 
6:30pm
LEGACY LECTURE 2019- UCSD 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
Come join us this May 2nd from 6:30-7:30 PM @ 
Price Center Theater to hear the presentation of your life! Legacy Lecture is a recognition awarded to influential and amazing professors for them to give a presentation with the prompt: If this were your last lecture, what would you want to share with everyone? It's FREE and the first 50 people will receive a commemorative pin from Scholars Society. Mark your calendars! Contact: jrojasve@ucsd.edu 619-862-1923TUE4.30
THU5.02MON4.29
UCSD INDEPENDENT BOOKSTORE 
DAY BOOK CRAWL -UCSD 
BOOKSTORE
Do you like to party at Bookstores like us? Join the 
UC San Diego Bookstore, and other indie 
bookstores around San Diego, for the super fun 
and VERY popular bookstore crawl! Win fun prizes 
like these limited edition Indie Bookstore Day 
Crawl tote and pin from local artist Susie 
Ghahremani of boygirlparty. Join us on our 
Facebook event for all the details. Contact: 
marketing@bookstore.ucsd.edu. 
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY TONE YOUR 
MIND- THE ZONE
Learn basic mindful movements to reduce stress 
and improve mood. Facilitated by Dr. Diana Quach 
(858) 534-7710. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY -THE ZONE
Cook and eat delicious, healthy meals on a budget 
with our cooking demos. Free samples provided at 
the end of each demo. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
INTERCULTURAL SOCIAL HOUR- 
LARGE CONFERENCE ROOM - 
STUDENT CENTER B
Intercultural Social Hour is a monthly event 
sponsored by the International Students & 
Programs Office for UCSD international and 
domestic students to share their cultures and 
make new friends through conversation, food, 
games, and light refreshments! Who’s invited? 
International and domestic students interested in 
sharing culture and conversation. What to bring? 
If you are interested in bringing games from 
home, feel free to share them during the event.  
7pm
CAMERA LUCIDA -CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
Camera Lucida is a chamber music collaboration 
between four musicians with diverse 
backgrounds. Camera Lucida is a unique project 
matching masterpieces of the chamber music 
repertoire with a group of world-class 
instrumentalists who happen to call San Diego 
home.
UCDC FALL AND WINTER 
APPLICATION DEADLINES- 
TEACHING + LEARNING COMMONS 
@ GEISEL
UCDC is an academic program that allows 
students to continue their studies and gain valuable on-the-job experience. Open to all majors, Washington, DC hosts extraordinary internship opportunities in every field. Fall 2019 Application Priority Deadline: Monday, April 8 Winter 2020 Application Priority Deadline: Friday May 3. Contact: jhomrich@ucsd.edu. Website: http://aip.ucsd.edu/ucdc
7pm
MICHAEL MATSUNO, FLUTE - 
GRADUATE RECITAL - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Program information to be announced. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu. Website: http://musicweb.ucsd.edu/concerts/cms_index.php?now=1&query_event_code=20190503-MatsunoFRI5.0311am
UNDERWATER BASKETWEAVING- 
CANYONVIEW SPA
Learn how to make a basket underwater while 
sitting in the spa at Canyonview and receive a diploma for your efforts. Lots of fun plus you take away a real basket. Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu. 
1pm
CHAKRA BALANCE - YIN & SOUND 
HEALING- RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 3
Sonic Energy: Yin Yoga and Sound Healing is a 
two-hour experience that balances the seven major Chakra energy centers. Through breath, simple body movement, essential oils, guided meditation and the healing sounds of crystal and brass singing bowls, ceremonial drums and more, participants will be led on a journey to awaken, align and activate each chakra. SAT5.04
2pm
LA JOLLA SYMPHONY & 
CHORUS-MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
The twin towering figures of the first half of the 
20th century were Igor Stravinsky and Arnold Schoenberg, separated by compositional method, aesthetic direction, and personal style. For ticket information call 858-534-4637 SUN5.05WED5.01
12pm
YASMINE KASEM: JIHAD OF BITTER 
PETALS- PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY 306, UC SAN DIEGO
Jihad of Bitter Petals are works questioning what 
it is to be caught between the struggle and 
submission and the merger of Queer and Islamic 
Identities in a single body. Yasmine Kasems sculpture installation interprets the maintenance of internal conflict through materials in a constant state of precariousness. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu. Website: http://visarts.ucsd.edu/news-events/20190424-0503_yasminekasem.html
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DAILY DROP-IN 
WORKSHOP - CAPS CENTRAL 
OFFICE 190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life.  Facilitated by: Scott Hansen, Ph.D.(858) 534-5915. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu (858)534-9408
7pm
WEDS@7 TAKAE OHNISHI, 
HARPSICHORD- CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
J.S.Bach The Musial Offering. The Musical 
Offering is a collection of keyboard canons and fugues and other pieces of music by J.S.Bach all based on a musical theme given by Great Frederick. General Admission: $15.50. UCSD Faculty, Staff, Alumni: $10.50. Student Rush: Free with ID. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu. 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
GLOBAL W ARMING
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Prepares to strike, as a cobra
6. You must earn it10. They handle many returns
14. Intake interruption while asleep?
15. It may contain the whole plot
16. Room connector17. Shell at Henley19. Spicy Spanish stew
20. ‘’Evil Woman’’ band, briefly
21. Robert Morse portrayal
22. Make a surprise visit24. Shell on the beach28. Recurring themes
30. Displaying shrewdness
31. Protective charm
32. Senator Feingold33. Pt. of EST36. Gimpy
37. Stick (out)
38. Utter an identical sentiment
39. Palindromic preposition40. Viscous stuff42. Revolving tank structure44. ‘’Bolero’’ composer45. It’s a driving force46. Shell to wear50. Lobster’s claw51. Rose-rose connector52. American inventor’s monogram55. Poker player’s payment56. Shell to eat60. Ball-bearing objects61. Not threatened by the wind62. It’s divided in Asia63. Miscalculates64. Cravings65. Quite a bargainDOWN
1.  Package sent overseas, maybe2. Gem of the oldest continent3. Ready to go on stage
4. You can be in the loop with it
5. Georgia O’Keeffe museum site
6. Capital in the news in 20027. Novelist Umberto8. Historical period
9. Parts of many households
10. Persnickety
11. Sense organs in insects12. ‘’___ the Family’’ (classic sitcom)13. Much teen talk
18. Something for the mill
23. Regrets
25. Cleopatra was queen of it26. Principle that hinders action27. ___ monde (society)
28. Kind of bonding
29. Actor Sharif
33. It may be quoted in church34. In that case35. Act grandmotherly37. Book after Hosea38. Therefore40. Something you did at the office, 
perhaps
41. Remunerate excessively42. Giuseppe’s wife in ‘’The Gondoliers’’43. Takes down, as a flyer on a bulletin 
board
44. Grade school break46. Outpouring47. Floating hotel48. Board49. Shoe and hat stats53. Not docked54. Inclusive abbr.57. Infant projection58. Buddhist sect59. Become rancidCARS
2015 BMW 3 Series 328i xDrive Gran 
Turismo in San Diego, CA. Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean you’ll never have to haggle and you can concentrate on find-ing the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Nissan Altima in San Diego, CA. 
CVT with Xtronic. My! My! My! What a deal! Don’t let the miles fool you! Pacific Nissan Your Nissan Source offers the best Certified Pre-owned Nissan car specials in the entire San Diego area. There isn’t a nicer 2014 Nissan Altima than this fuel-efficient … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Toyota Corolla 4dr Car S Plus in San 
Diego, CA. Front Wheel Drive, Powered steering, ANTI LOCK BRAKES, 4-Wheel Disc Brakes, Brake Assist, Aluminum Wheels, Tires - Front Performance, Tires - Rear Performance, Temporary Spare Tire, Heated Mirrors, Power Mirror(s), Integrated Turn Signal Mirrors … ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
BIKES
2018 Evil Wreckoning - medium in San Diego, CA. 2018. Premium build with limited use...maybe 25 rides in total. Carbon everything! The DELTA suspen -
sion remains the standard by which oth-ers are judged. XO1 1295 Eagle cassette, XO1 cranks shifters, shifters, derailers … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Infinity Lahaina mens beach cruiser in 
Chula Vista, CA. infinity lahaina mens beach cruiser 1sp aluminum frame soft cushion seat with coil suspension back tire spring for smooth suspension tires 26 in frame 18 in color back and grey fend-ers front and back for a rider 5’8” to 6’1” … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationFirmstrong 26’’ urban man single speed 
beach cruiser in San Diego, CA. Highlights 
26-inch men’s single-speed cruiser bike 
for easy, relaxed riding Classic curvy 
beach cruiser design with 17-inch durable steel frame and 26-inch aluminum wheels White-wall balloon tires for a cushioned ride … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Entry Level Teacher: All Majors & Experience Levels - As a Teach For America 
corps member, you’ll receive a full salary 
and benefits from the school district or 
charter school where you are employed. 
Benefits of Applying Early to the 2020 
Teach For America Corps: - Enter into your 
senior year with a job offer already in 
hand - You’ll have the ability to build con -
nections with your fellow early admitted corps … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more informationSystems Engineer - Sustainment Data 
Quality and Integration Management in 
Fort Worth, TX - The selected candidate 
will be a member of a high-performing 
team supporting F35 Data Quality and Integration Management (DQIM) and will be responsible for providing technical Engineering knowledge and skills sup -
porting F-35 Sustainment Data Product Integration &amp; Delivery (SDP I&amp;D) … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Designer, Creative Studio at Starbucks in 
Seattle, WA - We’re looking for a design -
er to join our Global Creative Studio in Seattle. You’ll work with talented creatives to help drive the success of one of the world’s most recognized and beloved brands. You’ll develop concepts for the packaging and Starbucks Card team … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at CSU East Bay
CCAA Championshipsvs. winner of no. 4 Sonoma State vs. no. 5 Cal State Monterey BayAlumni GameUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Track & Field
Softball
M Tennis3PM
All Day
12PM
10AM5/25/25/3
5/4
Tritons Capture Seventh Straight WWPA Title
The top-seeded UC San Diego 
women’s water polo team (21–
13, 4–0 Western Water Polo Association) capped o ff a dominant 
WWPA tournament run with a 14–4 defeat of the second-seeded Fresno Paci fic University Sunbirds 
to claim their seventh conference title in a row. The tournament, held 
in Geneva, Ohio, was the Tritons’ last in the WWPA before their move next season to the Big West Conference. 
The final started o ff closely 
contested; a fter two goals from 
FPU’s junior center Savannah Mangrum in a 16-second span, the Sunbirds and Tritons were tied at 2–2 halfway through the first 
period. But UCSD would blow the game wide open down the stretch 
as they scored the next eleven 
goals; the score would be 13–2 at 
the midpoint of the fourth period 
before FPU would score again. 
As they have been all 
tournament, the Tritons were dominant o ffensively; both 
sophomore center Ciara Franke and sophomore utility player Taylor Onstott scored hat tricks, while sophomore attacker Tera Richardson and senior attacker Shelby Stender had two goals apiece. UCSD had the advantage not just in volume but also in accuracy, scoring on 47 percent of their shots to FPU’s 15 percent shooting percentage.  
The Tritons advanced to the finals with relative ease with two 
routs earlier in the tournament. In the quarterfi nals, UCSD mounted 
an all-out assault on the California State University, Monterey Bay 
Otters, with twelve di fferent 
Tritons scoring goals in a 20–5 
blowout win. Senior utility player Carly Innis and senior center Chanel Schilling (named WWPA Co-Player of the Y ear this week) scored hat tricks; Innis also added a trio of assists. The match was never 
much in doubt, as the Tritons led 6–0 after the first period and 9–2 at 
the half. They never let up, scoring 
five in the third period and six in 
the fourth, tying their season-high scoring output. In the Tritons’ net, junior goalkeeper Reilly Gallagher saved ten shots and only let in five 
goals.It was the same story the next 
night against Gannon University’s Golden Knights, right down to the 
20–5 score. This time, sophomore 
attacker Grace Pevehouse racked 
up 4 goals, and the Tritons scored 
on four of their seven powerplays while holding Gannon scoreless on all five of theirs. Once again, UCSD 
shared the wealth on o ffense, with 
thirteen Tritons finding their way 
onto the scoresheet, including three goals from Onstott. The 
Tritons scored 10 goals in each half, including seven in the second period and six in the third. Sophomore goalkeeper Bennett Bugelli, who joined Schilling and Franke on the All-WWPA team, came in a fter the third period and 
shut out the Golden Knights in the fourth. The Tritons’ move to the Big 
West next season ends a decade of dominance in the WWPA under 
head coach Brad Kreutzkamp. In 
his tenure, the team is 48–6 against 
conference opponents in regular 
season play and has won its last 45 conference games (in both the regular season and tournament). The Tritons, the only team in 
the conference with an overall winning record this season, have reached the finals of the WWPA 
championships in all 10 seasons under Kreutzkamp and have won the last seven titles.
BY Praveen nair
contributing writer 
pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
Following a 7–5 loss to the California State 
University, Dominguez Hills Toros (15–26 California Collegiate Athletic Association) on Friday, April 26, the Tritons bounced back on Saturday, April 27 defeating the Toros by a score of 6–1 behind sophomore standout infielder Shay Whitcomb’s impressive day at 
the plate in which he went 3–5 with 4 RBI. Although the Toros are sitting towards the bottom of the CCAA standings, this win was much needed as no. 8 UC San Diego couldn’t afford to drop two in a row and risk their first 
place position in the CCAA.
In game two of the series, which was 
played at Toro Stadium (Carson), the Tritons started junior pitcher Brandon Weed, who 
was masterful all game long, and went 7 
long innings while allowing just 1 run. A fter 
an uneventful first few innings, the Tritons 
finally broke the 0–0 tie with back-to-back 
RBI hits from redshirt senior in fielder Alex 
Eliopulos and Whitcomb to put UC San Diego on the board, leading 2–0. In the following inning, the Toros knocked in their only run of the game which came o ff the bat 
of right fielder Eduardo Frayre-Cerda, but 
the Tritons demonstrated their resiliency for a second consecutive week putting the game out of reach with two more 2-run innings.The fifth inning brought renewed 
electricity as senior out fielder R.J. Prince 
and Whitcomb blasted back-to-back run home runs to kick o ff the frame. Later on 
in the contest Whitcomb kept the o ffense 
rolling with a 2-RBI double a fter sending a 
2–0 fastball down the le ft-field line. From 
there on out the Tritons paired their stellar defensive e ffort with strong relief outings 
from freshman pitcher Michael Mitchell and closer Kyle Lucke to sti fle the Toros o ffense.
Whitcomb’s spectacular game (3-5, 
2B, HR, 4 RBI) added to his team-leading 22 doubles and .347 batting average and furthered his case for CCAA MVP . Starting pitcher Weed continued his stellar season also moves to a perfect 8-0 on the year while touting a 1.82 ERA in 12 starts. With the win on Saturday, the Tritons are now a deadly 19-2 in games when they hit at least one home run.  
With the playo ffs just around the corner, 
the Tritons will look to build o ff this win and 
carry some momentum into the postseason 
as they will bring their CCAA-leading 29-10 
overall record into their final regular-season 
series versus California State University, East Bay before the playo ffs begin. BY hayden wellbeloved
staff writer 
Ha yden Wellbeloved    Hwellbell@ucsd.eduNo. 8 Tritons Take Down Toros to Split Series
BaseBALL
2019 NFL Draft Review: Talking About the Prospects
The 2019 NFL Dra ft took place 
last week from April 25 to April 27. For the 32 teams participating in the dra ft, it was an opportunity to 
enrich their rosters with young and talented prospects. For the players being dra fted, it was a culmination 
of years of work and e ffort. Here, 
we will take a look at a few teams whose dra fts drew the most hype 
and look at how the NFL Dra ft will 
shape the 2019-2020 season.
New Y ork Giants
Over the past few seasons, the 
Giants’ storyline has revolved 
around adding a new quarterback, 
and this year the team finally went 
all in. With the sixth overall pick 
in the dra ft, the Giants selected 
Daniel Jones, a senior quarterback who played college football for Duke University. It is not mu ch 
of a shock that the Giants used 
one of their first-round picks on a 
quarterback as their current signal-caller, Eli Manning, is 38 years old and has been steadily declining since winning his second Super Bowl. 
There are two ways to look at 
this selection. On the one hand, the quarterback spot is the most important and impactful position in football. If a team believes they found a franchise quarterback, they should grab him up as soon as possible. A young and talented quarterback is the quickest and most sure fire way to turn a 
franchise around. On the other hand, the dra ft is all about value: 
not only finding out how you value 
certain players but also how other teams value players. Daniel Jones was probably overdra fted by a 
team that is still holding out hope that Eli Manning can turn back the clock ten years and bring them back to the playo ffs. 
Oakland Raiders
Head coach Jon Gruden had 
a lot to prove in this year’s dra ft. 
Despite being the head coach, Gruden is fully in control of the Raiders’ roster. A fter signing on 
with the Raiders, his most notable decisions have been trading former first-round pick and defensive-end Khalil Mack to the Chicago Bears for picks and trading another former first-rounder, wide-receiver 
Amari Cooper, to the Dallas Cowboys for more picks. 
Armed with three first round 
picks (4, 24, and 27), Oakland took Clemson defensive-end Clelin Ferrell, Alabama running back Josh Jacobs, and Mississippi State safety Jonathan Abrams, 
respectively. Ferrell will provide 
some much-needed ability with the pass rush, Jacobs will add an explosive element to the run game, and Abrams will help in run defense and pass coverage at strong safety. Though it is questionable 
whether or not these dra ft picks 
will replicate the production of Mack and Cooper, their addition to the team certainly puts the Raiders in a better position to win next year.
Denver Broncos
The Broncos were another team 
that had a successful weekend in Nashville, as this looks to be John Elway’s best dra ft to date. 
After trading with the Steelers to 
gain more dra ft capital (the 52nd 
pick this year and a 2020 third rounder), in the first round Denver 
selected former University of Iowa tight end Noah Fant at 20th overall. Fant’s size, speed, and athleticism make it obvious why he projects to be a future Pro-Bowl player, and he 
should be a nice new weapon for 
newly-acquired Joe Flacco and the offense. 
Arizona Cardinals
If there’s one thing the Cardinals 
showed us at the dra ft, it’s that they’re going all in on Kli ff 
Kingsbury’s air raid o ffensive. 
Despite being fired from Texas 
Tech University just last year, Kingsbury accepted the Cards head coaching gig this o ffseason. His 
first moves as the man in charge 
were dra fting Heisman-winning 
quarterback Kyler Murray along with three wide receivers to fill the 
needs of his high- flying o ffensive 
scheme. Murray was considered the consensus number one pick, and general manager Steve Keim made sure to get him some targets to throw at by taking speedy slot receiver Andy Isabella from the University of Massachusetts, Iowa State University’s Hakeem Butler, and California State University, Fresno’s Keesean Johnson, who all 
ranked in the top 10 in the nation 
in receiving yards last season.
BY Wesley Xiao & 
Ha yden WellBeloved 
senior staff writer & staff writer 
Jack dorfman  sports@ucsdguardian.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 29, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 