At the Student Transportation Advisory 
Committee meeting on March 5, committee members and college representatives 
voiced student opposition at the possibility of charging for weekend on-campus parking while also expressing students’ mixed feelings about charging for Americans with Disabilities Act parking. The 
general student consensus was pulled from data in 
a survey that was sent out to  the Graduate Student Association, as well as from student feedback from college councils. The ideas of charging for weekend and ADA parking have not been officially proposed 
and, according to Director of Transportation Josh 
Kavanagh, it will not launch in the next academic year. 
The idea to charge for ADA parking and weekend 
parking was first introduced to STAC at its Feb. 19 meeting. In mid-February, STAC had released a Google form to the GSA asking for student opinions on unofficial proposed changes for weekend parking and ADA parking fees, as well as the possibility of 
adding SPIN bike racks at each end of the Gilman 
Bridge. The form received 218 responses, 169 of which addressed the weekend charges.
The proposed charges for weekend parking would 
have been lower than week-day parking prices. STAC’s intent with charging for ADA parking would be to decrease ADA parking pass abuse and enforce registration. According to GSA representative Erica Silva, the reasoning behind a suggested new charge 
for weekend parking would have been to “disperse 
the cost of maintaining campus resources to the full audience that uses those resources. ” 
According to the STAC meeting notes from Feb. 
19, “over 400 [ADA] placards were confiscated last year. ” 
In the form, students expressed their opinions on 
charging for ADA parking. According to Silva, “ ADA parking got a mixed 
response — it was evenly dispersed on the opinions. ” 
Students provided both positive and negative 
feedback in terms of charging for ADA parking. 
While there were many students who expressed 
indifference toward this potential policy, according to Silva, the strongest dissatisfaction was from a 
student who said, “UC San Diego is already hard 
to get around. ” At the STAC meeting, Silva noted that the general consensus for ADA parking was to charge for parking but reduce its cost if the students were to register their placard with the campus 
parking.
UCSD is the only UC campus in the system that 
doesn’t charge for student ADA parking.
Kavanagh also expressed interest in the ADA 
parking as it would “decrease the likelihood of drivers 
being queried in the field” and  be “advantageous to the Disabilities Community. ”
Although there appeared to be mixed feelings 
for charging for ADA parking, most of the concerns 
for charging for general weekend parking appeared 
to be negative, especially from graduate students in GSA. 
According to Silva, the weekend charges would 
“disproportionately affect graduate students whose salary is significantly lower than staff and faculty. ” This is in reference to the fact that graduate students are more likely to visit campus over the weekend than staff members. 
Survey responses also mentioned concerns 
that the weekend charges would negatively impact tourists and “discourage extra publicity. ” Other students were worried that the weekend charges 
would also cost more in fees as UCSD Transportation 
Services would “employ people to patrol on the weekends. ”
Due to the wide range of negative feedback, 
After months of negotiation, the 
University of California has decided not to renew its license with the 
largest commercial publisher 
of scholarly journals, Elsevier. The UC systems preferences for achieving universal open access 
to UC research and integrating 
open-access publishing fees and subscription fees into a single cost-controlled contract were conditions 
that Elsevier was unwilling to meet. 
The impasse came from the UC system’s’ push to make information more accessible and free of cost to the readers of these journals, as 
opposed to Elsevier’s high rates. 
Elsevier,an information and 
analytics company, is one of the 
world’s major providers of scientific, 
technical, and medical information. 
Their stated goal is to spread research information for the betterment of humanity. Of the content that they 
publish, 18 percent comes from 
the faculty at UC campuses. If the UC system were to obtain an open access environment, it would make it easier and more affordable for UC 
authors to publish their work, and 
arguably, for the world to benefit as well. 
The publishing company’s 
proposals had no cap on the dollar VOLUME 52, ISSUE 20  MONDA Y , MARCH 11, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Librarians Make 
Few Gains in Most 
Recent Bargaining 
Session with UCOP
According to the librarians’ 
representatives, UC administrators came into the meeting unprepared.
UC RESEARCH
UC System Ends Contract with Major Academic Publisher
COIN performed at Rock N Roosevelt this past Friday // Photo by McKenna JohnsonMembers of the University Council 
American Federation of Teachers 
representing university librarians met 
with a team of negotiators representing 
the UC Office of the President in Geisel Library on March 4 to discuss employment terms. The UC-AFT, who 
is bargaining for employment issues 
such as reassignments, flexible work arrangements and academic freedom, came away notably frustrated with the results of the meeting.
A UC-AFT blog update from 
Martin Brennan, a copyright librarian at UCLA and a member of the union’s statewide bargaining committee, 
highlighted the frustrations that 
stemmed from the meeting.
“Our entire bargaining team 
is angry, ” the update reads. “The normally laid-back SoCal vibe of 
San Diego members dissolved in 
the afternoon and they were beyond frustrated with UCOP . “
Critsela Garcia-Spitz, UC-AFT 
Unit 17 Bargaining team member for UCSD and Librarian specializing in Melanesian Studies told the Guardian, “We had hoped that we would be able 
to wrap up by the end of this month, 
but it looks like we might need to schedule more sessions, which was very disappointing to our team. ”
“It has been a time and labor 
intensive process and we are seeking to find resolutions to the issues that matter to our members beyond just 
the economic aspects of our contract, ” 
Garcia-Spitz told the Guardian.
UC-AFT attests that UCOP 
came to the meeting unprepared and empty-handed.
“We came into this session 
optimistic that UCOP would present 1) a formal, written salary proposal they’ve been teasing in non-committal 
“supposal” form since January, and 
2) reasonable responses to the five critical non-salary issues we identified in the last session, ” the blog reads. “Instead, management tried to play 
us for April Fools. Our optimism was 
misplaced. ”
Amy Weitz, of Media Relations 
at UCOP , told the Guardian that the office is trying to reach a deal that 
works for both sides.
 “We’ve been negotiating with the 
UC-AFT since last April, ” Weitz wrote 
in an email, “and we are working hard 
to reach a long-term contract that 
(1) fairly recognizes the important role our librarians play in supporting UC’s academic mission, and (2) carefully considers the university’s 
multiple budget priorities and long-
term financial health..[the] UC has offered a guaranteed prospective wage increase of 3% upon ratification of a 
new contract and annual 3% increases 
through the 2021–22 fiscal year, as By Madeline Leon  Senior Staff writerTRANSPORTATION
UCSD Unlikely to Implement Charge for Weekend ParkingPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
For many successful 
artists there is a distinct 
leap of faith into the 
industry, a point where 
you either make it 
or fail and face the 
repercussions.
COMPTON  COOKOUT
ON-CAMPUS  FOODREFLECTING   ON  APATHY
Convenience  or  Quality?Opinion,  Page   4
Lifestyle ,   Page 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Captain Marvel” 
packs a calculated 
punch with its subtle 
and satisfying 
handling of themes 
such as gender 
and systematic 
oppression.”MONDAY
 H 63 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54
TUESDAY
H 66 L 57
THURSDAY
H 67 L 53
OUT-OF-STATE TUITION..5
EDWARD WATTS..............6
UMBRELLA ACADEMY .....9
HOME COOKING............11
CCAA TITLE....................16UC SYSTEM
Laura Hatanaka
PAGE 8UC officials le ft negotiations with publishing giant Elsevier a fter they failed to meet open access demands.
BY  stephanie begle
Contributing writerBY  Tyler Faurot
News Editor MAKING MUSIC AS
AN UNDERGRAD
A&E, page 9
See ELSEVIER,  page 3 See LIBRARIANS,  page 3
See PARKING,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS 6 By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Alex will look 
ugly at his wedding, and Lauren is not invited.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 The University of California 
Office of the President released a 
statement on March 4 in reaction 
to President Donald Trump’s 
vow at the Conservative Political Action Conference that he will be signing an executive order requiring 
colleges and universities to “support 
free speech” in order to qualify for federal research funding. 
In his speech, Trump 
acknowledged conservative activist 
Hayden Williams, who made 
headlines when he was allegedly punched in the face at UC Berkeley on Feb. 19. Williams had been invited 
to the university to help recruit 
students to the Berkeley chapter of Turning Point USA, a conser vative non-profit organization.
“If they want our dollars, and 
we give it to them by the billions, they’ve got to allow people like Hayden and many other great young people and old people to speak, ” 
Trump told the crowd at CPAC. 
On March 5, the Alameda 
County District Attorney’s Office 
filed three felony charges and a misdemeanor against Zachary Greenberg, Williams’s alleged 
attacker. Greenberg is not a student 
at UC Berkeley. 
“Free speech is a fundamental 
value of the University of California and we already have strong policies in 
place that protect the free expression 
of ideas, regardless of political persuasion, ”  UC President Janet Napolitano said in the statement. 
“Protecting free expression has been 
part of the University of California’s DNA for decades. We do not need the federal government to mandate free speech on college campuses — 
that tradition is alive and thriving. ”
Berkeley is regarded as the 
birthplace of the 1964 Free Speech 
Movement, which was inspired by 
the Civil Rights Movement and 
opposition to the Vietnam War. Student activists launched massive, year-round protests against the administration’s ban on on-campus 
political activities.  
Critics of the UC system say that 
not enough effort has been made 
towards protecting the free speech 
of conservatives. In 2017, right-wing 
commentator Milo Yiannopoulos was invited to deliver a speech at UC Berkeley by the Berkeley College Republicans, but violent protests that erupted in the days 
prior to Yiannopoulos’s appearance 
led university administrators to cancel the event two hours before his speech, citing “the violence and destruction of property and out of 
concern for public safety. ”
In response to the cancellation 
of Yiannopoulos’s speech, Trump 
had threatened to withhold federal 
dollars from UC Berkeley for 
“not [allowing] free speech and [practicing] violence on innocent people with a different point of view. ” No further action was taken 
by the President at the time.
In their recent statement, 
the UCOP said that it responds 
“strongly” and “appropriately” to 
infringements of free speech. UC 
Berkeley Chancellor Carol Christ described the attack on Williams as “reprehensible.”
“UC Berkeley strongly condemns 
violence and harassment of any sort, for any reason, ” Christ said. “Our commitment to freedom of expression and belief is unwavering. ”
Despite the criticism it has faced, 
UCOP said it “expends considerable resources to ensure that anyone — of any background or viewpoint — can freely and safely express themselves on [its] campuses. ”
The statement added, “since 2017, 
our campuses have hosted many conservative speakers, including Ben Shapiro at UC Berkeley, Dennis Prager at UC Irvine and Dinesh 
D’Souza at UCLA.”
UCOP also applauded its work 
in “supporting free speech [and] 
applying academic rigor to the [issue 
of free speech]” by establishing the 
National Center for Free Speech and Civic Engagement in 2017. 
“[The National Center] is 
dedicated to exploring issues and 
challenges related to free expression 
through research, advocacy, debate, and discussion, ” UCOP said in its statement. “The Center’s advisory 
boards are made up of public 
servants, journalists, private sector leaders, scholars, and students — all of whom bring diverse viewpoints and experiences. ”
It is still unclear as to when 
President Trump will officially make his executive order regarding this controversial issue.
BY  Troy Tuquero 
Contributing Writer
troy tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.eduUC SYSTEM
UCOP Addresses Trump Plan to Tie Federal University Funding to Campus Free Speech 
UC President Janet Napolitano stated that the UC system does not need free speech to be federally mandated to continue protecting it.
JOIN  THE  UCSD  GUARDIAN!NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC 
ONLINE
6-Week Session  | May 20 -June 29
foothill.edu/secondspringTake a GE class online with Foothill College.
High quality. Quick. Convenient.well as enhancements to the wage 
structures for librarians. ”
UCOP also stated that they hope 
to include a contract that provides quality healthcare, retirement benefits and employment stability.
“We are giving due consideration 
to each of their proposals and hope to reach an agreement, ” the UCOP 
writes.
On the topic of academic freedom, 
an academic right of faculty to 
perform inquiries without fear of consequence, the bargaining unit has 
been pressuring UCOP to include a 
solidified policy in their contracts. 
“In consultation with the Academic 
Senate, ” UCOP wrote. “ Any extension of the privileges and responsibilities 
associated with academic freedom 
to non-faculty academic appointees will be made appropriately through establishing UC policy, rather than through collective bargaining”
The UC-AFT has been seeking 
protections for academic freedom while this policy is being formalized, although UCOP said that the union is 
not the authoritative voice since they 
do not represent all librarians. 
UCOP also argued that, “While 
the university appreciates the pursuit of academic freedom by UC-AFT, the union represents neither all UC librarians nor the other UC 
non-faculty academic appointees, 
including academic researchers, who will also be impacted. ”
The UC-AFT blog reads, “In 
other words, ‘any policy applying to 
librarians will apply to librarians. ’”
At the meeting, which was open to the public, Garcia-Spitz noted that the 
turnout and support was encouraging.
“I was amazed and appreciative 
of all the campus support, ” Garcia-Spitz said. “We had students, faculty, and representatives from other unions come out and back us. We are 
especially appreciative of the support 
from the UCSD Solidarity Coalition. 
And I was delighted to have several 
students sit in at the bargaining 
session. ”
The next rounds of bargaining 
sessions between UCOP and UC-AFT 
are scheduled for March 13 at UC 
Berkeley and March 20 at UCLA.Kavanagh predicts that the programs will not be implemented in the next academic year. 
“This is not a policy proposal, ” 
Kavanagh said. “[Transportation Services] is interested in understanding what the perspectives 
of our customers [are] and how 
some university partners’ needs 
could be best accommodated. ”
The STAC college representatives 
are against charging for ADA and 
weekend parking. 
“We also oppose paid weekend 
parking, which would devalue the cost of the current S permit and put another barrier between UCSD and the La Jolla community, which often hosts events on the weekends 
bringing many visitors to campus, ” 
STAC Chair Kelly Morris said. Kavanagh also encourages 
students to voice opinions via STAC, including those regarding the 
weekend parking charges and ADA 
parking charges, as the program outcome may also be dependent on students’ reactions. 
“STAC is a newly populated 
forum for conversations between 
students and the administration, ” 
Kavanagh said to the UCSD 
Guardian.
STAC hosts meetings every two 
weeks, and they are open to student 
feedback on various Transportation 
topics. More information on STAC and their meeting discussions can be found online. 
amount authors could potentially be paying in publisher fees. They also 
did not allow for full subsidization 
by the University of California on article fees for UC authors of research who are unable to come up 
with the funds to pay the publisher 
fees themselves. If Elsevier were to meet the UC system’s demands,  it would have charged authors over $10 million per year in addition to 
the libraries’ current multimillion-
dollar subscription.        
“Knowledge should not be 
accessible only to those who can 
pay, ” Robert May, Faculty Chair of 
the UC Academic Senate, said. “The quest for full open access is essential if we are to truly uphold the mission 
of this university. ”
According to the UC Academic 
Council, attaining their goal of 
open access would provide “long-
term societal benefits through 
transmitting advanced knowledge, discovering new knowledge, and functioning as an active working repository of organized knowledge. ” 
Open-access publishing would 
allow research to be accessed freely by anyone, anywhere in the world. This access would fall in line with 
the UC principles on scholarly 
communication for advancing scientific discovery. Scholarly journals are typically very expensive 
and therefore available only to those 
willing and capable of paying. 
“Make no mistake: The prices 
of scientific journals now are so 
high that not a single university 
in the U.S. — not the University of California, not Harvard, no institution — can afford to subscribe to them all, ”  Jeffrey MacKie-
Mason, who is both a university 
librarian and economics professor at UC Berkeley, as well as the co-chair of UC’s negotiation team, 
said in a statement.. “Publishing 
our scholarship behind a paywall deprives people of the access to and benefits of publicly funded research. 
That is terrible for society. ” 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
and other UC administrators 
have expressed their approval to 
the decision on discontinuing a 
partnership with Elsevier. 
“I fully support our faculty, 
staff and students in breaking down paywalls that hinder the 
sharing of groundbreaking 
research, ”Napolitano stated. “This issue does not just impact UC, but also countless scholars, researchers 
and scientists across the globe — 
and we stand with them in their push for full, unfettered access. ”
The UC administration’s hard 
stance on promoting liberal access to research for the advancement of knowledge and technologies enforces their determination to 
promote change in the current 
method of providing and accessing new discoveries. 
Prof. MacKie-Mason: Requiring Payment for Access to Academic Scholarship Limits the Benefits of  Publicly-Funded ResearchUC Librarians Are Aiming to Include a Guarantee of  Academic Freedom The W eekend Fee Idea Faced Student Opposition
▶ ELSEVIER , from page 1▶ LIBRARIANS , from page 1 ▶ PARKING , from page 1
MADELINE LEON   M7Leon@ucsd.edu
STEPHANIE BEGLE  sbegle@ucsd.eduTYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
As Winter Quarter comes to a close, the competition for summer internships is heavier 
than ever as application deadlines quickly approach. It is a well-known fact that 
summer internships are helpful ways of networking, getting field experience, and 
applying knowledge outside of a classroom. However, many of these internships are only available as “unpaid opportunities” — in other words, a quick way for companies to profit 
off free undergraduate work while providing just a blip in the student’s LinkedIn profile in 
return. Regardless of their capitalistic tendencies, unpaid internships remain necessities for 
resume building and application strengthening throughout an undergraduate career. In order 
to remedy the issue, UC San Diego must make campus internships and career-preparatory 
opportunities more fiscally inclusive and provide greater support for their students pursuing 
external work.
The Career Center at UC San Diego provides 
an abundance of opportunities and job listings to 
undergraduate students; many of these can be found on 
the Academic Internship Program website. However, to 
even apply to the Academic Internship Program, you 
must possess upper division standing by completing 
over 90 units of coursework. For students coming to 
UCSD with AP credit, that standing can be accomplished 
usually sometime during their freshman or sophomore 
year. However, the story is different for students who 
come from high schools without AP classes or didn’t 
have the $92 testing fee to shell out for each AP exam. 
The limitation on credit standing puts lower-class demographics at a late start for even being 
able to secure an internship, but it doesn’t end there.
Research isn’t cheap — there is a reason professors and postdoctoral fellows spend 
significant chunks of their time applying for grants and submitting proposals. The amount of 
grants offered by external institutions for undergraduates is limited; students across the country rely on scholarships from their home institutions for funding throughout the summer and for 
their exploratory work. UCSD’s internship website provides approximately 20 scholarships 
for the entirety of the undergraduate population: 29,000 students. If that wasn’t enough, each of those scholarships has separate requirements, and some only 
apply to certain majors; it could be quite possible that an individual would only be able to 
apply to 5 out of those 20 scholarships based on what they qualified for. In direct contrast, UC 
Berkeley’s database boasts over 303 scholarships for its undergraduate students. Scholarships, 
regardless of whether the money is coming from the institution itself or outside sources, need 
to become more accessible and widely shared in order to remain inclusive to those who may 
not be able to afford unpaid work at the return of experience.
In addition, many of these scholarships come with the caveat that a student may not be able 
to hold another form of employment during the duration of their opportunity. This prevents 
students from making any sort of income, which can be devastating while one is trying to 
support themselves on an unpaid internship. These financial expectations are directed toward 
students who have the fiscal ability to go indefinitely without pay and is incredibly exclusive of individuals 
with diverse economic backgrounds.
There is a pressure to find a summer internship 
at UCSD, and with programs like the Academic 
Internship Program and opportunities hosted and made 
accessible by the Career Center, it seems as though the 
opportunities are endless. Nevertheless, unpaid work 
puts lower-class demographics at a severe disadvantage 
and prevents accessibility to opportunities on a larger 
scale. Companies and secondary institutions must keep 
this in mind as they offer work to students and attempt to 
remain inclusive to applicants, regardless of the nature of the internship or opportunity.
Unpaid positions in research apprenticeships, campaign internships, or even on-campus 
jobs are incredibly unfair to students who come from lower-class demographics, and can even keep them from applying. The lack of scholarship accessibility provided by UCSD 
only exacerbates the situation and inflames the diversity issue many companies are currently experiencing. It is vital to make these extracurricular opportunities accessible to students of 
all financial, racial, and cultural backgrounds, and that may be bad news for some companies; 
it’s time to crack open the payroll.UC San Diego Fails to Support Underserved Students in 
Pursuit of  Internships and Research Opportunities
By Rajee Ganesan     staff writer
“The lack of scholarship accessibility 
provided by UCSD only exacerbates 
the situation and inflames the diversity 
issue many companies are currently 
experiencing. ”
An Apathetic Response: Th e Legacy of the Compton Cook-Out
In 2010, a racist fraternity mocked Black History month with stereotypical caricatures 
and costumes at a party that UCSD came to know as “The Compton Cookout.” Black 
Winter - the student demonstrations that responded to the Compton Cookout - seemingly 
marked a turning point for on-campus race relations. Never before had the university seen such acts of racism. The Compton Cookout culminated in a series of demonstrations that pushed 
the university to change its approach in maintaining a diverse student body by implementing 
the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion requirement, installing murals celebrating diversity, and 
creating several student resource centers.
However considering that hateful acts, even if unnoticed, continue to occur on campus, the 
ninth anniversary of Black Winter marks the failure of the demonstrations’ goal to create a 
greater, long lasting level of campus inclusion of minority students.
On a surface level, many would argue that this is not the case, stating that racism and 
xenophobia remain rare outliers in a university that is home to both a vast number of 
sociocultural resource centers and a student body predominantly composed of students of 
color. Likewise, many would argue that, because no student demonstrations have occurred on 
the same scale as Black Winter, the few outlying instances of racism that do take place only 
affect a handful of students rather than a large portion of the student body.
One of the most recent known xenophobic acts occured this past fall when students in The 
Village at Torrey Pines reported hearing racial slurs being yelled in the residential areas. This 
was followed by two swastikas being drawn on the sides of one of the buildings. They were 
erased but were redrawn the following day.
This higher level of apathy can be attributed to the phenomenon of moderatism being 
pushed further right. A 2016 study from UCLA found that while there is a rise in college 
students identifying as more liberal, the majority of college students nationwide remain 
politically moderate. Conversely, another study from UCSD analyzing congressional votes 
from 1947 to 2014 found that while both the Democratic and Republican parties have moved 
further away from the midpoint between American liberal and conservative ideologies, 
Republicans as a whole have become more polarized than have Democrats. As a consequence, 
this asymmetrical polarization has pushed what is considered to be “moderate” further right, 
resulting in apathetic responses to racist incidents being more likely now than in 2010.This is not to say that apathy has remained consistent across the campus. After the racially 
charged incidents in The Village, several resident assistants, including Zahabiya Nuruddin, 
came together to discuss ways to combat the hateful rhetoric. In doing so, Nuruddin explained, 
there was a need to address the hurt that many students felt by the incident without alienating 
any students who may have disagreed with the interpretations of the messages and motives 
of the racist acts.
Nuruddin and several other RAs and students came together to form Social Justice in 
the Village, an organization that hosts weekly town meetings that create an open forum 
discussion on controversial topics. While the meetings originally started out with only a 
handful of students in attendance, Nuruddin said that this began to shift after a discussion on 
the controversial Gillette ad.
“With the Gillette ad, we had a greater turnout because people were not just interested in 
toxic masculinity,” Nuruddin said. “There were opinions like: ‘I feel targeted by this ad.’ It 
was cool to see the transformation in people listening and trying to understand the opposing 
point of view. They were talking casually with each other without getting angry. Now, we get a 
steady stream of 15-20 people, [which is] big enough to have different perspectives but small 
enough to maintain intimate conversations.”
While it’s difficult to get people to replace apathy with action, Social Justice in the Village 
serves as a good example for how students can begin to address on-campus prejudices. One of 
the key purposes of the organization is to foster an inclusive environment, which means going 
beyond shutting out those who are either apathetic or hold opposing points of view.
“There’s no way to completely end racism,” Nuruddin continued, “but there are measures 
that we can still take and continue to take to make everyone feel welcome. We just have to 
be active and we have to understand that [our work] will never fully be enough while still 
moving forward.”
As Nuruddin said, these interactions are by no means a guarantee that xenophobia and 
racism at UCSD will completely stop. However, by creating an environment that encourages 
respect, inclusivity, and learning, the normalization of hate will begin to be replaced with a 
better sense of community.By Jacob sutherland     Senior Staff WriterOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
voting isover easy!
crackin ’  lets get
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for AS Election 2019 information
I CAN’T SEE
By System 32Letter to the Editor: 
Against Tuition Hike Bias
By  Liz  Niculescu      Contributing Writer
I am writing today as a student leader at UC San Diego who is 
also an out-of-state student regarding the increase in tuition 
that non-residents are facing once again this year and that the 
UC Regents will vote on next week. 
While I fully applaud the decision to hold tuition flat for residents 
in the coming year, I wish that the same basic respect for students’ finances were extended towards non-residents. California is the fifth 
largest economy in the world, bigger than the United Kingdom. In 
December 2018, Governor Jerry Brown estimated that the state of 
California had a budget surplus of $30 billion. 
Increasing tuition for an education that is already too expensive 
for some folks is shameful. To raise tuition solely on non-residents 
is even more ethically corrupt. There are a lot of stereotypes 
about non-resident students, namely out-of-state and international 
students, being ultra-wealthy. The fact that we chose to attend 
UCSD seems to be perceived by the Regents as an open invitation to 
raise tuition because after all, if we wanted an affordable education, 
we would have gone to college closer to home. That sort of thinking 
is, I believe, at the core of the non-resident tuition hike. It is 
discriminatory and prejudiced in every sense of those words. 
I chose to come to UCSD because I believed that it would offer 
me a world-class education and a different experience than my 
midwestern state of residency. I was willing to take on the debt 
that came with that choice. Last year, the UC regents voted 12–3 
to increase the non-resident fee by $978 to $28,992. Now they 
want to increase it again. California has always been a progressive 
state, yet the UC Regents’ attitude towards non-resident students 
is as regressive as they come. I urge the Regents to make the right 
choice and end this unnecessary extortion of non-resident students, 
especially the same students who literally live in the shadows of 
massive, expensive construction that will not benefit us during our 
years on campus but that our tuition dollars are funding. 
There is no excuse for a wealthy state to raise tuition on any 
students. If public education is not a fiscal priority of our state 
government, then that government is failing its citizens. 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG & MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.org
It’s obvious that professor Edward Watts is excited about history. 
On top of teaching Roman, Greek, and Byzantine history, he is heavily involved in San Diego’s Greek community. During 
lectures, he will often pace the room and talk enthusiastically to his students, which only enhances the story-like nature of his lectures. Even his office has one wall devoted entirely to books on history, with his nearby desktop computer displaying picture after picture of his visits to Rome. Yet, this passion and love for history speak not only to Professor Watts’ academic interests but his character as well. 
Watts first began his work in his undergraduate years while 
attending Brown University. Focusing on classics and religious studies, Watts quickly realized that his interest in history extended beyond undergraduate studies. Thus, after completing his bachelor’s degree, Watts went on to pursue his Ph.D. at Yale University, and he later worked at Indiana University and, eventually, UC San Diego. For Watts, this deepening venture into the realm of history was the perfect blend of his many interests. 
“I decided to go under the history department because history 
departments have a lot of space for historians to do all kinds of things, ” Watts said. “I was interested in economics, I was interested 
in literature, I was interested in archaeology, I was interested in 
Christianity and Judaism, I was interested in paganism, I was interested in all kinds of topics. And it just became clear to me that I would really do best in a discipline where you can do all of those things. And you can do all of those things in one project if you really 
wanted to. Or you can do five projects that do each of those things 
individually. And so for me, this was a natural place because I like to work in a whole range of things. I’m pretty naturally curious. And I like to learn what I’m curious about. ” 
It is at UCSD where Watts was able to cultivate this curiosity 
even further. Here, Watts not only continues to research and engage students in Greek and Roman history, but he also has a strong affiliation with the Greek community in San Diego. In fact, it is this very community that first drew him to work at UCSD. 
“What brought me here was 
the opportunity to be … involved 
in scholarship at UCSD and 
research at UCSD, but also the public activities of the Greek community in San Diego, ” Watts said. “ And I think the combination of having this community that is really supportive, really interested in making sure that we’re able to 
teach about the Greek world and the Roman world to students, and 
really being sure that students get the best-quality background in the history of the Greek world — that’s really unique at UCSD and that’s something that really appealed to me. It’s really a wonderful opportunity. And so when that was open to me, it was very easy 
to make the choice to come and join this campus and join this 
community. ”
When it comes to the Greek 
community, Watts holds the 
position of Alkiviadis Vassiliadis Endowed Chair in Byzantine History and takes part in many of the community’s events, as well as events and lectures held at UCSD through the school’s Center for Hellenic Studies. All of his involvement is for the purpose of opening up the Greek world to the 
public and making it more accessible and relevant to people. For Watts, this vision is something that he himself has always had. He feels that, first and foremost, the very purpose of his job is to help 
students and other people understand why history matters and is  
Professor Watts 
and the Wonders of the Past
Professor Edward Watts is a huge history bu ff,  especially when it comes to Greek and Roman history. 
But his love of history stems from a deeper sense of curiosity and willingness to actively engage with the 
people around him.
SeeHISTORY , page 7By Madeline Park       Features Co-Editor
“We do our best, we put our ideas out 
there, and we see how they go. And if 
people later say ‘no, I don’t think that 
that idea worked’, okay. I think that’ s 
fine. Scientists are completely fine with 
that and I think that historians should be 
completely fine with that as well.”
Professor Edward Watts teaches a variety of Greek and Roman history courses.PHOTO COURTESY OF PROFESSOR EDWARD WATTSFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Monday
March 18th
10pm
 
worth  thinking about. 
Alongside his involvement in the Greek community and at 
UCSD, however, Watts has also written several books in the hopes 
of getting more people interested and invested in history. In his first book, published in 2006, Watts wrote about the differences in Christian and pagan educational culture in the cities of Athens and Alexandria. In his second book, he examined a riot that took place in late antique Alexandria. His third and fourth books center on 
pagan history and the life of a female philosopher in the early fifth 
century respectively. Most recently, his fifth book details the fall of the Roman Republic. While all of these books cover a wide range of topics in the Greek and Roman world, Watts has one underlying theme that he continually focuses on: change. 
“I’m particularly interested in looking at change and 
understanding how people understand change — not when they look back on it, but when they live through it, ” Watts said. “I think for me what’s really interesting is finding these moments where something, something changes — and then trying to understand how people make sense of it. ”
It’s topics such as these that keep Watts interested in researching 
and writing as a part of the learning process as a whole. 
“ As long as I’m learning about how to answer a question, it’s very easy for me to write, ” Watts remarked. “But I don’t like working on things that I’ve already worked on. I feel like if I’ve said something 
once, probably that’s the best I’m going to do with it. ”
We do our best, we put our ideas out there, and we see how they 
go. And if people later say ‘no, I don’t think that that idea worked’ , 
okay. I think that’s fine. Scientists are completely fine with that and I think that historians should be completely fine with that as well. ” 
For professor Watts, history is a field that combines many of his 
interests and passions. As someone who is curious, has a strong desire to learn and engage with others, and understands the people and world around him, history offers him the opportunities to do what he loves. 
“It’s not the easiest profession to get a job in, ” Watts said. “But I 
think it’s great for someone like me who’s just interested in learning about things. That’s really what excites me. I have a lot of fun doing that. And so this is the kind of job where you can continually explore things and learn about things that interest you. It really rewards creativity and an interest in people. I think for someone who’s interested in that type of topic, it’s wonderful, it’s rewarding, it’s the type of thing that can sustain you for a really long time. And 
you’ll never get bored of your job. ”
MADELINE PARK   MAP048@ucsd.edu▶ HISTORY , from page 6A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“Captain Marvel” presents a unique perspective on the meaning of strength 
and rede fines the role of emotion as it pertains to heroism.
M arvel Studios’ latest addition to its 
superhero lineup, “Captain Marvel,” packs a calculated punch with its subtle 
and satisfying handling of themes such as gender and systematic oppression. The film takes place in the ’90s and tells the origin story of Captain Marvel (Brie Larson), beginning with her time as a Kree soldier on the alien planet of Hala, where she 
is known as Vers. There, she possesses incredible 
powers that allow her to shoot photon rays from her hands, a quality that her superior officer, Yon-Rogg (Jude Law), insists she must learn to 
control. However, when a mission goes wrong, she 
finds herself stranded on Earth without guidance, all the while uncovering shadowy fragments of incomplete memories hidden in her mind. In an effort to uncover her past, Vers teams up with 
S.H.I.E.L.D agent Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), 
and the pair set off in pursuit of intergalactic peace. 
This highly anticipated film arrives at the end 
of the tense, year-long aftermath of “ Avengers: Infinity War, ” and only a month before its sequel, “ Avengers: Endgame, ” set to release this April. Captain Marvel’s presence is alluded to at the end of “ Avengers: Infinity War, ” but this film takes 
place years before, uncovering the backstories of 
numerous mysteries of the Marvelverse including (but not limited to) how Nick Fury lost his left eye and clues pertaining to the establishment of 
the Avengers. These smaller details might pass 
unnoticed to the unversed eye, but there are plenty of features that Marvel fans will recognize, including two post-credit scenes. In fact, these small additions to the collective Marvelverse 
knowledge are what fans seem especially excited 
about.
And yet, the film was released amid a cloud 
of controversy. In the months leading up to 
its release, the film gained an unprecedented 
amount of criticism due to lead actress Brie Larson’s outspoken advocacy for feminism. Many male netizens were upset that the Marvelverse, a highly male-centric territory, would soon be infiltrated by an incredibly powerful lead female protagonist, especially one portrayed by an actress 
who believes in gender equity. As a result, the 
film’s “Want to See Rating” on Rotten Tomatoes took a hit. Nevertheless, the cast has released statements reflecting their indifference to these negative comments, choosing instead to use the 
controversy as a platform for a message that 
the film ironically mirrors: female strength and resilience.
Captain Marvel is lauded as one of Marvel’s 
most powerful superheroes, so it is unsurprising that the film should focus on the origins of her incredible skills. Throughout the film, the audience witnesses her inexplicable ability to effortlessly take down enemies. However, in the 
end, Captain Marvel’s true powers boil down to 
her emotional will, empathy, and her resolve to get up each time she is knocked down. Without question, the most enticing aspect of the film 
presides in this message of emotional investment 
as a necessary motivator of strength, not an inhibitor. 
Some may say that Captain Marvel’s unstoppable 
powers allow her to succeed unchallenged, or 
that the film lacks the volume of hand-to-hand 
combat scenes we might expect from a Marvel film. However, it isn’t that Captain Marvel lacks obstacles, but rather that her struggles are rooted 
in the fact that others expect her to fail, an aspect 
that many, especially women, will undoubtedly find relatable. Still, she refuses to validate these sentiments of failure and, ever so humanly, chooses to keep going, no matter the barriers, 
societal or physical, that may stand in her way. 
“Captain Marvel” emerges as an unstoppable modern force that marks the foray into more diverse understandings of the hero archetype. 
— Laura Hatanaka
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Captain marvelPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Anna Boden and Ryan Fleck 
Starring  Brie Larson, Samuel L. Jackson, Jude Law
Release Date  March 8, 2019
Rated  PG-13CA
Alita: Battle Angel
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Robert Rodriguez
Starring  Rosa Salazar, Cristopher Waltz, Jennifer Connelly, Mahershala Alli, Ed Skrein
Release Date  February 14, 2019
Rated  PG-13CC
“A l i t a :  B a t t l e  A n g e l ”  s h o r t - c i r c u i t s  i n  d e l i v e r i n g  a  w e l l - w r i t t e n  s t o r y.
D irector of the outlandish “Spy Kids” 
and pulp noir “Sin City” franchises, Robert Rodriguez helms a new CGI-
laden and action-packed film that seems on-brand for him. Based on a titular ‘90s manga, “ Alita: Battle Angel” stars a female cyborg with powers strong enough to take 
down indestructible forces, a heart passionate 
enough to defend loved ones, and eyes big enough to belong in a Margaret Keane painting. The sci-fi flick opens with promising expectations, displaying a post-apocalyptic, cyberpunk world that begs to be marveled 
at. However, the jaw-dropping spectacle is 
unfortunately paired with a dull and clunky narrative, leaving the movie unmemorable and uninspiring.  
In the year 2563, cyborg-scientist Dr. 
Dyson Ido (Christoph Waltz) is scavenging through a junkyard when he stumbles upon a disembodied cyborg. Taking the discarded bionic back to his lab, he repairs and revitalizes 
her, but upon regaining consciousness, she 
can’t recollect any of her memories. So, Dr. Ido endows her the name Alita (Rosa Salazar) and tours her through her new home, the 
futuristic and gritty metropolis of Iron City. 
With a serious case of amnesia, Alita acts 
as a blank slate, which conveniently helps 
the audience explore the cinematic universe. 
However, this also becomes an easy ticket for the exposition to be explained in a rough and 
bulky way which, in turn, makes the dialogue of the film undynamic and (ironically) robotic. 
The beginning of the film is reduced to a 
series of question-and-answer conversations so that Alita can be introduced to Hunter-Warriors, Motor-Ball, and the elite sky city of 
Zalem — all topics that unnecessarily extend 
into their own subplots. The remainder of the film is filled with several hackneyed lines that attempt to verbally flaunt Alita’s “badassery, ” such as “she has the face of an angel and a body built for battle, ” which feels 
more creepily objectifying than empowering. 
The flawed script doesn’t seem to focus on building a copacetic story for these characters. Instead, it’s a messy information dump, trying 
to set up the origins for yet another cash-
grabbing franchise. 
The poorly written lines also create bland 
character interactions, especially between the scruffy bad-boy Hugo (Keean Johnson) and 
Alita, as a fanfiction-like romance quickly 
brews among the teen lovers. Though Hugo does become a main driving force for the conflict of the movie, his personality is as 
stiff as a machine’s, turning their “emotional” 
exchanges lukewarm and generic. The movie lingers a little too long on this irrelevant young adult affair, so this subplot is trifling, 
juvenile, and unbelievable in terms of a heartfelt relationship. 
Speaking of one-dimensional characters, 
there are multiple villains in the film who are cartoonishly vile, save for Dr. Chiren (Jennifer 
Connelly), who should’ve received more screen time. The plot grows a bit convoluted as we attempt to dissect why some of these 
secondary adversaries are unjustifiably 
hostile to our heroine. Mahershala Ali is also criminally underused as the wicked big-bad of the film. His character doesn’t develop much of an individualistic arc or fleshed-out backstory. Instead, he’s merely used as 
a collateral pawn for the film’s pre-planned 
installment of a larger and more evil “boss” nemesis. 
With so many antagonists, Alita is forced to 
engage in many brawls. However, these kinetic and crisp fight scenes should be singled out as one of the film’s saving graces. The combat performances are heavily dominated by CGI, but they’re creatively choreographed. 
Watching Alita come to full fruition with 
her killer instincts and expert martial arts is gratifying, making us recognize that she is one formidable and deadly opponent with 
unparalleled athleticism. 
Despite the blemishes in the story-telling, 
the movie’s visual world-building is stunning. 
The high-tech gizmos paired with the low-
life denizens of Iron City create a progressive yet rustic environment. Cyberpunk itself 
is a stylish, distinctive subgenre, so “ Alita” feels akin to ‘80s classics like “Blade Runner” 
or “ Akira. ” Crossing into the lively urban 
landscape, “ Alita” ushers the audience through its streets, crowded with bustling vendors, rascals, and busybodies by day, as well as 
astir with rowdy bars, bleak alleyways, and 
dangerous personalities by night. Not to mention, the premier megalopolis of Zalem, hovering directly above Iron City, is captivating yet intimidating; it sparks curiosity as we begin to wonder what type of upscale life 
hangs there. All in all, another silver lining of 
the film is its wonderfully animated aesthetics. 
Although “ Alita: Battle Angel” contains 
striking visual effects, it doesn’t mitigate 
its run-of-the-mill narrative and depthless 
characters. The blockbuster had the potential to be a great standalone sci-fi fantasy, but it felt rushed and incomplete in an obvious attempt to set up future sequels. It would be 
a wasted opportunity if the next follow-up 
movie malfunctions and turns out as wonky as this one.
— Ashley Chen
Senior Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
It is 2019, and I am sick of superhero movies. 
Trust me, I’ve tried—I’ve faked my way through arguments on who was right in 
“Civil W ar, ” speculated on whether cryptic tweets from Chris Evans meant an impending death 
in “Infinity War, ” and even subjected myself 
to watching Scarlett Johansson swoon into the Hulk’s giant sweaty green palm in theaters. But at the end of the day, there’s just something about once the Spandex tights are donned, that, with a few shining exceptions, just feels… well, missing. I didn’t know what this was for a long time. Maybe it was the fight scenes, maybe the villains. It wasn’t until very recently that a friend of mine 
put into words what I couldn’t: “None of the 
Avengers seem like they actually like each other.”
This isn’t a dig on the Avengers or anyone who 
loves them; this isn’t actually about the Avengers. This is about “The Umbrella Academy, ” which is very much not the Avengers. “The Umbrella Academy” is a cartoon burst into live action. It hits hard, emotional truths, but there is no attempt at gritty realism, nor is there at making 
the show appear like a comic book. The larger 
than life aesthetics are taken in stride, daring you to comment on the genetically modified monkey butler or the time traveling assassins who wear Chuck-E-Cheese-esque animal masks. The world of “The Umbrella Academy” is a place far more akin to “ A Series of Unfortunate Events” than it is to “Batman. ”
On an inauspicious day in October 1989, 43 
women around the world, all of whom had begun the day comfortably not pregnant, remarkably gave birth. Many of these babies, equally remarkably, had superpowers. Seven of them were adopted by Reginald Hargreeves (Colm Feore), an eccentric billionaire and reigning overlord of emotionally distant fathers. They were raised as part of his Umbrella Academy, an elite group of children dressed in picture perfect blazers and child-sized masks who would use their powers to stop crime and maybe, one day, the end of the world.
But what happens when childhood ends? 
The adopted Hargreeves siblings emerge into 
adulthood in twisted, uncomfortable ways, trying 
to forge identities on their own terms. They distance themselves from their family as much as possible, when two events bring them back together: the mysterious death of their father, and the reappearance of their brother, Five, who has been time traveling for the past decade or so. He brings home a grisly message after four decades of time-travel (from his perspective): He has seen 
the end of the world, and it’s coming in eight days.
Y es, it’s based on the comic books by Gerard 
Way. Yes, that Gerard Way.
As you might expect, the soundtrack is a force 
to be reckoned with. Where do I even begin? 
With the Phantom of the Opera rock medley that introduces us to our heroes? Fifteen-year-old Aidan Gallagher single-handedly murdering a crack team of hitmen in a donut shop to the 
jaunty tune of They Might Be Giants’ “Istanbul”? 
And aside from sheer aesthetic, “The Umbrella Academy” distinguishes itself from its superhero brethren with the powers themselves. The characters don’t have powers merely for the sake of genre; Luther (Tom Hopper) doesn’t have super strength because the writers thought that would be, like, really cool or whatever – he has super strength because he’s trying to keep together a 
family that was doomed to fall apart. Allison 
(Emmy Raver-Lampman) controls people’s minds because she is terrified of presenting herself on merit alone. The show isn’t nearly this tongue-in-cheek about the Hargreeves family’s powers, but ultimately, the supernatural of “The Umbrella Academy” is less “radioactive spider” than it is a nod to the notions of magical realism, a tool to understand these characters as they struggle to understand themselves.
All of the cast encapsulates a diverse range of 
characters, but I would be remiss to not mention Aiden Gallagher, who plays Five Hargreeves, a 58-year-old man who spent his formative years in 
an apocalyptic wasteland only to travels back in 
time and find himself in the body of his thirteen-year-old self. A bizarrely specific series of events, but the teenaged Gallagher portrays it as if it were his own life story. Also notable, Robert Sheehan plays Klaus Hargreeves, a constantly fluctuating junkie haunted by the ghost of his dead brother, and balances the part with an almost Shakespearean take on wacky humor 
and genuine emotion. And where would we 
be without Ellen Page as Vanya Hargreeves, mumbling and slouching her way through the majority of the ten episodes and straight into my heart.
Of course, as might be expected from a show 
where the characters were for the most part raised by a sexy robot and a genetically modified monkey, it’s not perfect. The out-of-time 
aesthetic, while a definite high point, occasionally 
falters, not quite embracing it enough to fully earn it. Likewise, it’s hard not to question some of the characterization choices in the season finale, or wonder why superpower-less Vanya was not allowed to join her siblings on crime fighting missions, when Klaus, whose only ability is to talk to ghosts, can tag along.
These are small problems, however, in the 
oversized reality of “The Umbrella Academy, ” a world in which all our traumas are reenacted on the enhanced stage of Hargreeves family drama. This is a show about superheroes, yes, but more than anything, it’s a show about family – and not the feel-good, family depicted on much of television. The Umbrella Academy (the in-universe institution, not the show) is both a school and an inflated imitation of the nuclear family, and in true form to both, prides itself on regimen, sameness, and optics, all at the threat of the individual. But the effects are shown in very real ways, be it Klaus – who is LGBT and in many ways an outsider to these institutions – 
relying on drugs to cope with a power that in any 
other circumstance would be considered mental illness, or Vanya’s traumatic sense of inferiority from being compared to super-powered siblings. The Hargreeveses’ dysfunctions are our own; no matter how loving or well-adjusted our families may be, there is still that spark of truth in Diego (David Castañeda) navigating an understanding of his mother’s interiority beyond being the 
nurturing figure from his childhood, or in Allison 
negotiating what it means to be a sister. 
Once again, I find myself thinking about 
the Avengers. Does the super team of “The Umbrella Academy” really like each other? It’s fair to assume that, if it were not for the impending apocalypse and their shared last name, these people would probably not be spending much time together. But “The Umbrella Academy” 
also seems to understand something that goes 
beyond onscreen dysfunction and dramatics. It’s something I think about in the show’s final scene; no spoilers, I promise. As I watch all seven of the Hargreeves siblings, the camera spinning, and flashing between the faces of our heroes and the children we have only seen in flashbacks. I watch this scene, the genuine intensity but unmistakable care of this moment, and I wonder if I would have 
liked the Avengers better if, like the Hargreeveses, 
I had believed that they knew what it means to love.
—  Chloe  esser 
A&E Editor
TV   REVIEW
The Umbrella Academy 
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Created by   Gerard Way
Starring  Ellen Page, Tom Hopper, David Castañeda, Emmy Raver-Lampman, Robert Sheehan, Aidan Gallagher
Premiered  February 15, 2019 on Net flix
Rated  TV-14Ca-
For many successful artists there 
is a distinct leap of faith into the industry, a point where you either 
make it or fail and face the repercussions. There was a time when a 19-year-old Tyler, the Creator and a 24-year-old Frank Ocean got on a plane to New Y ork with nothing more than a few dollars and big dreams. There was a point where Kanye West decided, “I didn’t graduate: I decided I was finished, ” and headed off to Los Angeles to follow a dream. For every  success story of big risks and massive rewards, there are hundreds if not thousands of stories that don’t end nearly as well. The life of a young artist is an interesting window in which 
there is so much hope and potential, as well 
as conflict — something I have always been greatly interested in. 
The struggle between artistic dreams 
and school is apparent to so many undergraduate students. There is a distinct conflict for these individuals: they must hold back their lofty dreams of a nationwide tour for a term paper that may be due next Thursday. To gain insight into this phenomenon of hope and aspiration, I sat down and picked the mind of an undergraduate artist named Thaddeus to better understand what the young, inspired, and hopeful artist deals with each day. 
Thaddeus is a 21-year-old Lo-fi soul and R&B artist who currently attends the University of Southern California, where he majors in music industry. Reigning from Jacksonville, Florida, Thaddeus found himself at USC after countless auditions with the goal of using Los Angeles to trampoline himself into the music industry. Thaddeus and I were able to discuss the conflict between following one’s dreams and staying grounded in school, being surrounded by artists, the evolution of his own personal music, and what we can expect in coming months from the young artist himself. 
Thaddeus was immediately able to 
address a major aspect of his artistry — his 
name — and described how it has allowed 
him to define himself. Thaddeus uses his birth name as his artist name, saying that while “[his] name never felt as if it fit him as a kid, ” his reclamation of the name as an artist was a “rebirth or restart” for him. As many undergraduates are so lost and seeking to carve out their identities, it is insightful to see in this situation  how creating art can lead the way. 
As a music major at USC, Thaddeus’s 
undergraduate experience is vastly different than those at many other universities. I was able to ask Thaddeus how his specific environment has affected the way he makes music. Thaddeus promptly informed me that his program gets “so, so, so, so competitive” and that he is “constantly surrounded by people who are really driven and do the things that [he] hopes to be doing at an almost higher level, ” which does nothing but motivate him. 
Most importantly, Thaddeus discussed 
how his interests as an artist come into conflict with his school requirements. While he recognizes that it is “super easy to forget about school, ” he believes that “there is value in being a student and there is value in getting a degree. ” However, the internal conflict for many undergraduate students with ambitious musical dreams shone through when he explained “there is a part [of him] that recognizes that it is 
impossible to fully work as an artist while 
[he] is in school. ” He quickly added that he’s not going to drop out but will continue to make the necessary sacrifices in order to do what he loves and thrive academically, while still trying to get enough sleep.
I was able to ask Thaddeus about the 
effect of easy-to-release music platforms such as Soundcloud and Bandcamp. He explained that the prospect of virality doesn’t take away from the artistry. “Social media and streaming have entirely changed the way we as artists can market ourselves, ” he said, noting that “it’s nuts. ” 
As we concluded the interview, Thaddeus 
and I discussed his upcoming work and what we can expect from it. He made clear that his latest project, “Underhum, ” is straight from the heart and was written in a quick flurry of personal emotion within a few days. With roots in Southern rock and a heavy emphasis on soul and R&B, Thaddeus hopes to be the next artist to break through in this new era of streaming and overnight stardom. With hopes of one day working with artists such as James Blake and Moses Sumney, one can follow the humble beginnings of the artist from Jacksonville and watch the power of new media potentially change a life.
So many people struggle with 
uncovering their artistry and realizing their true goals. Through Thaddeus, we 
can see a blossoming young talent who has 
aspirations to climb to the top but must remain grounded through education. Thaddeus can be found on Soundcloud with the handle “underbum, ” where he hopes to be releasing a great amount of music over the next few months. As the embodiment of all those undergraduate artists that require time to create but must make sacrifices to succeed in the classroom. Thaddeus hopes to be the next streaming trend — and his music shows his ability to make bounds in the industry. 
making  Music  as an  Undergrad PHOTO COURTESY OF THADDEUS“The Umbrella Academy” provides a fresh and heartfelt take on the superhero genre.
The Guardian sits down with aspiring musician Thaddeus for an inside look on the life of an undergrad artist.
— matthew Rudas
Staff Writer10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  1 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
WIN + WOO
WIN + WOOMarch 15, 2019
The Stageroom
Doors 7PM
GA $11
Free for UCSD undergraduate students with valid student IDSoulCycle seems like the latest trend in the world of exercise, with many 
“influencers” promoting their hip classes on social media. SoulCycle is a fitness 
company that, according to its website, not only offers indoor-cycling workout 
classes but also a “powerful mind-body experience. ” In addition to candle-lit 
sessions and motivational instructors, SoulCycle is also notoriously known as a 
cult-like exercise program. Classes are extremely expensive and some even question 
whether its exercises are effective or simply overpriced. When I was scrolling through Instagram and came across an advertisement promoting SoulCycle classes 
at their studio in Westfield UTC, I couldn’t resist clicking. I had already been on the 
hunt for a new workout and was curious to see what made these classes so special, so I decided to see whether this exercise was worth it for the typical UC San Diego 
student.
SoulCycle offers their first class for just $20. After I signed up for the class, their 
confirmation email urged me to arrive 15 minutes early to get acquainted with the facilities and sign a waiver before class began. I went into the SoulCycle studio in 
UTC with high expectations for its customer service. After all, there had to be a reason why these classes are jokingly compared to cults. The employees that day 
were nice, but they did not necessarily make me feel welcome. Even though it was 
my first time, I struggled to find help and had to go out of my way to ask employees what I was supposed to do next. I found this a little disappointing from a company 
that emphasizes “togetherness” on its website, but I let it slide.
Once I signed in, I was directed toward the locker room where you can choose a 
locker, set your own lock combination, and even charge your phone through a USB port. I left my bag and shoes in the locker and made my way to the warm and dark 
room where the class would be held. Let me tell you that the transition from the bright white locker room to a pitch-black room with people running around can be 
incredibly jarring. Before my eyes could adjust, an employee approached me and 
asked me if I needed help finding and adjusting my bike. She adjusted the bike’s seat height and taught me how to clip in my shoes to attach them to the bike’s pedals, 
and I had to shout back at her to teach me how to get out of the pedals, too. I can 
definitely say that the SoulCycle shoe situation is not user-friendly. There is a metal attachment at the sole of the shoe that clicks into the pedal, which sounds simple in theory but actually requires a lot of force and precision to kick into. Getting out is 
even more challenging, as you have to force your ankle to contort in a weird position 
to click out. The employee also did not tell me where I could find the knob to adjust 
the resistance of the bike pedals, which took me until the end of class to figure out.
The class itself was, to put it lightly, an interesting experience. The instructors 
blasted their favorite playlists of trendy upbeat music to keep me pedaling to the 
beat. The beginning of the class was mostly pedaling while standing, which initially almost killed my unfit self. I realized that going out dancing with my friends the 
night before may not have helped me with my leg strength, but after a while that 
shaky feeling in my legs went away. In theory, having this large group of people biking together is supposed to inspire you to keep up with the rest of the class, but 
everyone around me was so advanced that I found it most helpful to look down and 
keep to my own beat to the music.
What makes this class different from another cycling class? I would definitely say 
the emotional aspect is there. I am someone who loves cheesy motivational quotes, so when our instructor screamed at us about the importance of self-love, I drank that speech up. The candles lit around the room also helped add to that “emotional” 
experience that created an almost therapeutic experience. Another unique aspect to 
SoulCycle is the idea of “togetherness. ” The instructor asks you to check up on your neighbor often and encourages you to high-five them at the end of tough sections. 
The people around me were also helpful when I couldn’t click my shoes out of the 
bike pedals, and that was much appreciated.
So, is SoulCycle worth it? My opinion is no. Although the emotional support 
and camaraderie were things I needed at that moment, I don’t think I would feel comfortable devoting my entire workout routine to SoulCycle for two reasons: price and effectiveness. Although I paid $20 for my first class, normal classes are $28 
each, and renting the death-contraption shoes costs $3 per class. Although I was 
pretty sweaty at the end of the 45-minute class, I think it was mostly due to how warm they kept the room, which creates an illusion that you’ve pushed yourself 
more than you have. If you want to live the soul cycle experience, invite your friends 
to go jogging and play a motivational speech through your earphones and you’ll get the same effect. Is SoulCycle Worth It?
By Samirah  Martinez       Staff WriterLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Home-cooked meals are the center of every family household — well, it’s actually 
the dinner table, but the food is what brings everyone together. It’s where laughter is 
shared and thoughts are heard. I grew up in a Mexican household, and my favorite 
food memory is of my grandpa and how he would almost burn down the house as 
he roasted chili peppers for his secret salsa recipe. I would come home from school 
and as soon as I walked into the house, my eyes would start to water and I would 
start to cough because my grandpa was roasting the peppers on the stove with all the windows and doors closed. It never occurred to him, or anyone else in the house, 
to crack open a window. Now, since I no longer live at home, I don’t have as many 
home-cooked meals as I was brought up on. I live on campus and my meals are attempts and wannabe home meals rather than the real deal.
 When attending a university out-of-state or somewhere far from where you 
grew up, there are things that you will miss. For me, it’s home-cooked meals. We are all meeting new people, living with strangers, and exploring a new campus. Home-
cooked meals are special to everyone in a unique way. They are not something that 
you can buy and get a new version of, like iPhones. These meals are sacred and they all tell a story. These meals are important to us. Whenever we failed a test or bruised 
our knees, our mom, grandma, or maybe even dad would comfort us with a meal to 
make our pain go away. We wouldn’t just get comfort food when in  pain, we also got it when something great happened in our lives, like getting accepted into college or 
celebrating an engagement. Everyone’s comfort food is different, which is why every 
story is different. When you no longer live at home, there are slim ways of recreating your favorite comfort meal. If we are lucky, we know the recipe to mom’s spaghetti 
or grandpa’s deathly salsa for Taco Tuesdays. 
Being a student myself, I have projects due, papers to write, and exams to study 
for; there isn’t much time to cook, which is where the “cup of noodles” diet comes into effect. There’s nothing better than coming home to a meal made with love. Now, 
however, we come home to a stranger who has probably made their own dinner with a scent strong enough to make us run to our rooms and stay there. I, like 
most of you on campus, have to pack a lunch from time to time, and it is usually a depressing sandwich with minimum ingredients inside, some sliced apples, and a 
bag of chips, if there are any left above the fridge. I pour my coffee into a to-go cup, 
but once I get on the bus it’s already cold and pointless to drink. Then, I’m in class, 
half-asleep because my coffee decided to freeze itself, and my stomach is the source 
of my embarrassment as it lets me know, as well as the entire class, just how hungry 
I am. When I finally get to bite into my sandwich, I don’t feel the home aspect or 
love. Instead, I taste failure and the lack of mustard I attempted to spread in a hurry. I feel as though I need to inhale my food before my next class starts because that’s 
the only time I have to eat my packed lunch. 
We do, however, have access to food on campus (thank God), but I’m sure we 
all don’t have the money to spend on food every day. I know I am guilty of buying food at school and then taking it home with me to enjoy a “cooked” meal. It isn’t 
the same as our family meals, of course, but it will have to do. Not only do we have food chains on campus, but we also now have the ability to order food through food 
delivery apps. It’s almost as though the creators of these apps had college students 
in mind because, they knew, we would be busy with our school schedules. We have Postmates, DoorDash, and UberEats right at our fingertips if our cooking skills 
ever fail. Like I stated before, I’m sure we don’t all have money to spend, but these 
apps do save us time from “trying” to cook, and they save our history so we can order faster if we plan on ordering the same meals all the time. I am, again, guilty 
of having all of these apps downloaded on my phone. They are so convenient that 
they become my most used apps on some days. 
With all the resources and different situations I have to re-create or enjoy a 
home-cooked meal, nothing will ever compare to the dinners I once had at my dinner table back at home. Even now, as I turn to see my gloomy kitchen, I know my cabinets are hungry for food. Seems as though my household is due for a grocery 
trip, and with that, I am off to the store to attempt yet another home-cooked meal 
with random ingredients that I think are part of my grandpa’s salsa, but I’m sure I will grab all the wrong stuff and I’ll try again next week until I get it right. An Ode to Home-Cooked Meals
By Claudia  Miranda      Contributing Writer12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  1 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
TRITON OUTFIT TERS
WINTER // 2019SAN DIEGO, CA
TO.UCSD.EDUFrom an infamous chicken sashimi photo posted to a Facebook group, to me 
receiving a plate of chicken jalfrezi garnished with a piece of hair, and to my friend 
biting into a piece of cold burger meat, you would probably assumed that I would 
never visit this restaurant again. However, I continued visiting the restaurant for an 
entire year and casually used it as a place to hang out with my friends — this place 
is known as Canyon Vista. 
Living on campus for nearly two years, I have developed a fair idea of the food 
quality from each dining hall that Housing Dining Hospitality serves. This may be a controversial topic as we each have a variety of personal tastes, but overall, I would say that HDH’s food is edible — to an extent. In addition to the aforementioned 
issues that I have experienced at Canyon Vista, I personally find that the majority 
of dishes served in other restaurants like Pines, Café Ventanas, and Foodworx are underprepared and/or underseasoned. 
On-campus food is also closely affiliated with something that students living on 
campus have heard of: Dining Dollars. Dining Dollars are highly controversial; some say they are useful while others deem them useless. It is convenient for students to 
eat almost anywhere on campus. However, for those who enjoy making their dishes 
and need to purchase groceries, many items sold at the HDH-operated markets are truly overpriced. Furthermore, I don’t eat much; I purchased the lowest dining 
plan offered and still have half left with just one quarter remaining in the academic 
year. Because I had so many Dining Dollars left by the end of last Spring Quarter, I purchased non-food items like kitchen appliances, Hydroflasks, and meals for my 
friends to make the most out of my plan. However, with Dining Dollars being able 
to rollover beginning Fall Quarter of 2019, this new policy will definitely benefit many continuing students.
Despite the quality of food served and the fact that I have a lot of Dining Dollars 
left, I am grateful for the dining halls. I am in my last year as an undergraduate student, and these dining halls are not only convenient but also help me truly 
experience what it is like being a college student. As a transfer student, I lived at 
home during my first two years of college, and my meals were almost always well-coordinated and nutritious. Since living on-campus means I have easy access to my 
everyday meals, many of which are high in saturated fats with little to no nutritious 
value, I have learned to be mindful of what I am eating. I began to look up the nutrition facts label on the HDH website before ordering my food. I opted for salads and cooked more by buying overpriced produce from the markets.  
Food connects people. I get to eat with my friends to conveniently catch up with 
them, overhear other students’ conversations about how underprepared they are for an upcoming midterm, or even discover a student organization I have never heard of. Though not the best tasting in my opinion, dining halls serve multiethnic 
cuisines, which allow students to experience diversity instead of the stereotypical 
American burger and fries. When I order my daily cup of coffee, the baristas on shift recognize my face and my usual order. It feels like I am visiting a friend, talking 
about our classes and what is happening in our lives. Moreover, for those who want 
to experience a true dine-in restaurant, they have the option of eating at places such as The Bistro or Sixty-Four North.
All in all, the food served on this campus may not be the best, and HDH could 
improve its operations in terms of its pricing system, providing more dining plans options and food quality control. Furthermore, these dining halls are one of the first 
impressions for many first year students. In my first visit to The Bistro, I remember 
being greeted by nicely plated dishes and a welcoming manager; this definitely helped solidify my choice to attend this school. I’ d say that many HDH-operated 
restaurants provide a welcoming demeanor for their students to continue their stay 
by having a friendly ambience and staff.On-Campus Food
By Rebecca Tsang       Staff Writer
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ALFREDO RODRIGUEZ & PEDRITO MARTINEZ Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 11 - MAR 17
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION – THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. 
11am
ART AND SOUL - THE ZONE
Enjoy a fun DIY arts and crafts project! Discover 
your creativity and destress!
7:30pm
UCSD CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
WINTER CONCERT – CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Take a study break and enjoy the UCSD Chamber 
Orchestra Winter Concert! Works include Harp Concerto by Alberto Ginastera and Symphony No.3 by Florence Price. A reception will be provided by Symphonic Student Association afterwards.
7:30pm
CHAMBER ORCHESTRA - UC SAN 
DIEGO CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
The UC San Diego Chamber Orchestra, under the 
direction of Matthew Kline, presents their Winter performance in the Conrad Prebys Concert Hall. Alberto Ginastera - Harp Concerto. Tasha Smith Godinez, soloist
8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL CHOIR - 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM AT
UC SAN DIEGO
General Admission: $15.50. UCSD Faculty, Staff, 
Alumni: $5.50. Students : Free with ID. MUSIC Box Office: 858-534-3448. Purchase Online. Ken Anderson, San Diego's leading proponent of gospel, directs UCSD's gospel choir in a concert of African-American spirituals, blues, and traditional songs.
12pm
PI DAY – EBU 2 COURTYARD
UCSD Tau Beta Pi is hosting our annual Pi Day Celebration in honor of the Greek letter pi for its significance in mathematics. Come join us on Thursday, March 14 from 12:00 - 2:00 PM in EBU2 Courtyard for free pie and pizza and play some games with us! We will be having an amazing Pi-nata, pie drop, and more! All students are welcome, so don't miss out on the fun! Contact: kww006@ucsd.edu
6pm
DECOMPRESSO – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, 2ND FLOOR EAST WING
Mark your calendars for Active Minds' annual 
de-stress event, this Week 10! Come enjoy a break from studying for your Finals with: Mental Health Trivia, Making an origami picture frame, Checking out our Resource Booth FREE food & goody bag rewards (while supplies last)! Find us at Geisel's East Wing, 2nd floor. Open to all UCSD Students :)
7pm
LO-FI STUDY JAM II – THE LOFT
FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. Finals coming up soon. So we're opening up the space for a study jam filled with your favorite lo-fi hip hop radio station, free coffee, and relaxing vibes. Step out of packed libraries to spend your Thursday & Tuesday evenings at your local cafe! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTUE3.12
THU3.14MON3.11
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based 
on first come, first serve. Questions? Contact 
the zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. 
Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
3pm
VOICE STUDENTS, 32VM - UC SAN 
DIEGO CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER
The Undergraduate Vocal Masterclass, 
instructed by Kirsten Ashley Wiest, presents a 
recital of art songs and arias, featuring 
German Lieder by Schubert, Schumann, and 
Brahms. Pianist Dr. Kyle Adam Blair joins 
singers Adrain Chan, Jennifer Colin, Joseph 
Garcia, Teagan Rutkowski, Julia Yu, Lizze 
Fisher, Daniel Zhao, Lauren Jue-Morrison, 
Cameron Haywood, Shane Ramil, and Myasia 
Fox.
3pm
MONDAY NIGHT JAZZ: 95JC JAZZ 
ENSEMBLES - UC SAN DIEGO 
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Under the direction of Kamau Kenyatta, the 
popular 95JC returns! Featuring an ensemble 
performing a variety of diverse compositions, 
including pieces written and arranged by 
student musicians, instrumentation includes 
voice, violin, saxophones, rhythm section and 
afro-latin percussion.
ZONE I SHIRING
Zone Intern Applications are open on Handshake, 
search using Job ID number.
Graphic Design Lead Intern Handshake ID: 
2419733 
Lead and provide graphic design support to The 
Zones graphic design team Provide graphic design support to The Zone by creating marketing materials for print and online media. 
Graphic Design Intern Handshake ID: 2419671 
Provide graphic design support to The Zone by 
creating marketing materials for print and online media. 
Programming Assistant Handshake ID: 2419313 
Assist with The Zones programming efforts by 
providing daily program coordination support. 
Web & Marketing Assistant Handshake ID : 
2419550 
Assist with managing The Zones website and 
campus-wide promotion of the Zone.FRI3.15FIT YOGA PASS!– RIMAC
It's not too late to sign up for our Fit Yoga 
Pass for the Winter to take UNLIMITED yoga classes all quarter long! More info here: https://recreation.ucsd.edu/programs-and-clas/fitness-yoga/ Contact: mchosich@ucsd.edu
COED INTRAMURAL SOCCER – 
RIMAC
It's almost the weekend and what better way to spend it than playing soccer with some friends? Our Coed Intramural Soccer program registration is still open so sign up ASAP to secure some weekend fun! More info here: https://rec.ucsd.edu/FusionIM. Contact: mchosich@ucsd.edu
RESEARCH STUDY ON WOMEN 
OF COLOR - VARIOUS
IAre you a woman of color undergraduate 
student, over the age of 18, who has experienced sexual assault during college at UCSD? Please consider sharing your important story as a part of a new research study. To learn more about this research or to express interest in participating, please click on the following link or copy and paste it into your web browser: www.womenofcampus.com ONGOINGWED3.13THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
5pm
95W WORLD MUSIC STUDENTS – 
CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Students of Kartik Seshadri in a performance 
of Indian Classical Music. Contact: 
publicity@music.ucsd.edu
7pm
UC SAN DIEGO BACH ENSEMBLE - 
UC SAN DIEGO CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
Free. Vivaldi Night. The annual UCSD Bach 
Ensemble Concert features works by Antonio Vivaldi (1678-1741) performed by selected undergraduate students from the Chamber Ensemble class. Special guest appearances by Pei-Chun Tsai (violinist of the San Diego Symphony), Ilana Waniuk (violin, UCSD Graduate Student) and Cory Lin (alumnus). Please come and enjoy our exciting performance! 
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ALFREDO 
RODRIGUEZ & PEDRITO 
MARTINEZ – THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
Grammy-nominated artists, pianist Alfredo 
Rodriguez and percussionist Pedrito Martinez first worked together on Rodriguez's 2012 
release The Invasion Parade. Since that initial 
recording session, they have had the rare 
occasion to perform together as a duo, leaving audiences completely mesmerized by their fearless and virtuosic playing. A protege of Quincy Jones, Rodriguez was schooled in the rigorous classical conservatories of Havana, while Martinez's musical training came directly from the streets of the Cayo Hueso neighborhood of Old Havana, where he was raised. Bringing different approaches to their joint performance, the master musicians take listeners on a unique and exciting journey. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
ST. PATRICK’S DA Y
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Pond floater
5. Geographical reference10. Bouillabaisse, e.g.
14. Quarterback Flutie
15. Standing upright
16. Hemingway sobriquet17. Fairy tale baddie18. What’s left, in Le Mans
19. Holly
20. Simon and Garfunkel classic, with 
“The”
23. Belittle, slangily
24. __ Vegas
25. Susan Lucci, e.g.
32. Comedian Costello
33. “Ghostbusters” goo34. Gulf of Aden country36. __’acte
38. Dock berths
40. Rocker Axl
41. Wife of Jason43. Archer’s missile45. AFL affiliate46. With “The, ” book after Ecclesiastes49. Roof goo50. Govt. broadcaster51. Examine personal motives59. Belgrade native60. Shelter61. Garden waterer62. Spoken63. That is: Latin64. Part of MIT: abbr.65. Ms. enclosure66. Pub game67. Good listenersDOWN
1. Big fusses2. Apple, for Apple3. Wise adviser
4. Chairperson’s list
5. Sprays from cans
6. Not kosher7. Minus8. Start of a play
9. “A Streetcar Named Desire” role
10. Never-married woman
11. Soft mineral12. Fencer’s choice13. Wane’s partner
21. Cocktail hour assortment
22. “No problem”
25. Loudness units26. One-up27. Rice dish
28. Arab leaders
29. Copy, for short
30. Merged gas company31. Varnish ingredient32. Moon craft, briefly35. Prefix with classical37. Ready for tenants39. Chem lab liquids42. Culture medium44. Courts47. Prom corsage48. Golfer’s five iron51. Blood fluids52. Important periods53. “If I __ Hammer”54. CBer’s “Back to you”55. Bird house56. O’Neill’s daughter57. Cold War empire: Abbr.58. “Why don’t we?”59. “Help!” (and this puzzle’s title)CARS
2018 Toyota Yaris iA Gray, 30K miles in 
San Diego, CA. Pre-Collision Warning System Visual Warning. Pre-Collision Warning System Audible Warning. Audio - Internet Radio: Stitcher. Audio - Internet Radio: Pandora. Impact Sensor Door Unlock. Crumple Zones Rear. Crumple Zones Front. Phone Wireless Data Link Bluetooth... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2006 Ford E250 in San Diego, 
2006 FORD E250, Stock#5200 VIN 1FTNS24W16HB05330 2006 Ford Econoline E-250 extended cargo van, automatic transmission, 4.6L V8 engine, Am-fm radio… ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Used 2016 Volkswagen Jetta Sedan 1.4T 
S in San Diego, CA. We are excited to offer this 2016 Volkswagen Jetta Sedan. Save money at the pump with this fuel-sipping Volkswagen Jetta Sedan.… ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
BIKES
Scattante mens 10 speed road bike/tri bike - (92008) in San Diego, CA. really nice high end bike - retails for 1200ish... looking to trade for anything man cool Size 28 - I am 5’ 10” and it fits me good. 3X10 chainring and cassette…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Women: Blue/Silver OCR 2 Compact 
Road Bike in excellent condition  in San Diego, CA. Women’s -size small- road bike which comes with a brand-new Tule Bike rack for two bikes, a helmet, bike pump, tools for changing tires,etc. Bike has new tires, has recently been tuned up and is ready to roll….ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mountain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, 
Womens in San Diego, CA. Terrific Condition. Hasn’t been ridden in 5 yrs due to being overseas. Size small. Component Group: Mountain Mix Front Derailleur: Front Derailleur Rear. Derailleur: Back Derailleur...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationINTERNSHIPS
Data Science Internship in Carlsbad, CA - This project’s aim is to create a web application that will allow users to lever -
age publicly available information by organizing and presenting the data in a more useful way than how it is currently made available...ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Entry Level Teacher (Grade Pre-K-12) - 
**Applications for the upcoming dead -
line should be submitted no later than Friday, February 1st, 2019.** Who We Are: Teach For America (TFA) is a leadership 
development organization focused on the systemic challenges facing children 
growing up in poverty...ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Business Development Associate in 
NYC - We are looking for a Business Development Associate to join our team! Responsibilities include: -Own compa -
ny’s initiative to build new customer 
base and drive revenue growth -Oversee 
day-to-day operations of on-going out-
bound campaigns...ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingADS
You've got 'em,
we want them.
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONHELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2019
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Tritons Take Third-Straight CCAA Tournament
The team builds on their regular season momentum to upset Cal Poly Pomona.  
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team started o ff its 
postseason run with a bang, taking 
first place in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Championship last week for the third season in a row. The Tritons won all three of 
their tournament matches, beating 
California State University, San Bernardino 98–69, California State University, East Bay 72–68, and California State Polytechnic 
University, Pomona 71–62.With this championship win, 
UCSD is awarded an automatic bid 
into the NCAA Division-II Men’s Basketball Championship. The early 
stages of the championship are 
divided between regions. In order 
to advance to the final rounds of the 
national tournament, the Tritons will have to reach and win in the final 
round of the West Region. 
At this point, the schedule and 
opponents for the tournament are not set, but the team should expect a challenging road to the 
championship. In head coach Eric 
Olen’s five-year tenure, the Tritons 
made it to the first round of the NCAA tournament three times, 
making it to the West Region final 
round in 2016 and 2017 and reaching 
the West Region quarter finals most 
recently in 2018. 
Though the Tritons have shown 
a knack for making it into the tournament, they have been unable to break out of the regional stage and move onto the national section of the 
tournament. 
Currently, UCSD is ranked No. 5. 
If the rankings remain as is, UCSD 
will face the No. 6 ranked West 
Region team in the first round of the 
tournament. This happens to be Cal 
Poly Pomona, the team the Tritons just beat for the CCAA championship. Given how UCSD handled the 
Broncos in their last meeting, the Tritons should be expected to make it past the first round. Beyond that, the 
outcomes are a bit hazy. 
Much like its Division-I 
counterpart March Madness, the Division-II tournament is also known for its surprises and upsets. 
UCSD has personally experienced it: 
In 2017 during the final round of the 
West Region, the No. 1 Tritons lost to the No. 6 California State University, 
Chico, 94–86, at home. 
With no firm knowledge of the 
rankings yet, UCSD’s matchups are difficult to predict. That being 
said, this could be another upset-
filled tournament. The Tritons may 
finally get out of the regional stage of the tournament, or they may be 
eliminated early on. The first round of 
the tournament starts on March 16. 
The opponent, time and location of 
the game are still to be decided.
HA YDEN WELLBELOVED   HWELLBELL@ucsd.eduBY HAYDEN WELLBELOVED
STAFF WRITER
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON  ATHLETICSThe perfect season continues. The UC 
San Diego Tritons women’s basketball team 
came into the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Tournament over the weekend at 
the California State University, East Bay gym 
needing just three wins to get over the hump. 
The team had made back-to-back CCAA 
Tournament finals over the last two seasons, 
failing to secure wins in both.
This time was di fferent. 
UCSD had no reason to worry throughout 
its de finitive 70–62 win over the rival 
California Polytechnic University, Pomona Mustangs on Saturday, March 9. Trailing at 
the end of the first quarter 18–17, the Tritons 
took the next three quarters to secure the win, which is the second in school history. 
Both the men’s and women’s CCAA 
championship games featured UCSD taking on Cal Poly Pomona, and both Triton teams 
winning marked the first time a school has had 
two teams win the CCAA championship.
Juniors saved the day once again for the 
Tritons, just as they’ve done all season long. Junior forward Mikayla Williams, the team’s 
leading scorer this season, earned Tournament 
Most Valuable Player honors with her 70 points 
scored over the three-game tournament. The 
6-foot-1-inch Williams scored a game-high 26 
points, doubling Pomona’s leading scorer. 
While the Tritons are a 3-point heavy team, 
Williams provides the balance needed to break down opposing defenses. Williams got to the 
free-throw line 14 times in the game, cashing in on 12 of them to supplement her 7-for-15 shooting from the field. Just as important as 
her points scored were her rebounds. Williams’ 14 total rebounds, and more impressively her 5 
offensive rebounds, gave the Tritons the clear 
edge inside. 
Three other players scored in double digits 
for UCSD. Junior guard Sydney Sharp dropped 16 points on 5-for-10 shooting, with all of her 
shots coming from behind the 3-point line. 
Senior guard Joleen Y ang and junior forward 
Haleigh Hat field each put up 10 points, with 
Hatfield adding 10 rebounds as well. 
Uncharacteristically, the team only made 
3-point shots in two of four quarters, missing all 7 of their second and fourth quarter 
attempts. But with Williams’ interior play and with the Tritons’ 10-point cushion heading 
into the fourth, the below-average shooting heading into hal ftime and the end of the game 
did little to throw the team out of their groove. 
The team came into the tournament as the 
top seed, and thus got to play their first game 
of the tournament at home against the No. 
8 California State University, San Francisco 
Gators on Tuesday, March 5 in front of a tiny 
home crowd. UCSD handled its business 
despite the poor attendance, creating their own energy and overcoming the pesky SFSU 
defense with an 87–36 win. 
The Tritons’ closest game of the 
tournament was not the championship game, however. It was their next game, the semi final matchup with the California State University, 
San Marcos Seawolves that forced double-overtime at RIMAC Arena in a 68–67 thriller 
back in January. This time the score was not 
so close, as UCSD took down the Seawolves 70–63. Williams scored 21 and senior guard 
Kayla Sato had her biggest game of the season 
with a 27-point, 10-rebound performance. 
With this win, the team got a chance to take 
on the Mustangs in the championship. 
The team will find out where it will be 
seeded in the NCAA Division II tournament on Sunday, March 9 at 7:30 p.m. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Lindenwood 
@ Indiana Universityat CSU San Marcosvs California BaptistUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
Swim & Dive
Baseball
Softball6PM
ALL DAY 
6PM4PM3/123/133/143/14
The Tritons take care of business on the road against tough CCAA competition.  
BY jack dorfman
sPorts Editor
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON  ATHLETICS
Softball 
Splits 
Doubleheader 
with Sonoma 
StateFollowing a series win against an 
interconference foe, California State 
University, Humboldt, the UC San Diego 
softball team traveled up to the Bay Area 
to take on California State University, Sonoma, where it split games in the 
doubleheader this past Friday. Sonoma 
State (5–6 overall, 4–4 California 
Collegiate Athletic Association) won 
the first game in a no-hit fashion, as 
Seawolves junior pitcher Brielle Vidmar 
went the distance, striking out 5 and walking just 4. 
The afternoon game was a di fferent 
story, however, as the Tritons bounced back to trounce Sonoma State 14–2, 
defeating the Seawolves by mercy-
rule in 5 innings. A fter the two-game 
series, UCSD remains at the top of the standings, sitting at 16–4 on the season 
while boasting a 14–3 CCAA record. 
In their first slated game, the Tritons 
looked overmatched o ffensively, as 
Sonoma State’s Vidmar was lights 
out for the Seawolves. Despite UCSD 
sophomore starting pitcher Robyn 
Wampler’s strong complete-game 
outing, the Tritons were unable to 
get anything going at the plate. The Seawolves jumped out to a 2–0 lead early in the first inning with back-to-
back hits to start the game. From there, Sonoma State didn’t look back as it 
posted another run in the third frame, 
which was all Vidmar needed. 
The Tritons manufactured their sole 
run in the fifth inning on a sacri fice fly 
off the bat of junior utility player Danica 
Kazako ff. This scored freshman catcher 
Kinley Kyro, who had reached on a hit 
by pitch. Unable to muster any hits, 
though, the Tritons ultimately lost by a 
final score of 3–1. 
The tides changed in the late 
afternoon game, however, as the Tritons 
swift ly shook o ff their earlier defeat and 
cruised to a 14–2 victory. Led by 5 RBIs 
from both freshman utility player Keila 
Bosinger and junior utility player Alyssa 
Wing, the Tritons found themselves 
with a 10–0 lead in the third inning. 
Bosinger kicked o ff the scoring with 
some fireworks, blasting a 3-run homer 
to knock in Kyro and sophomore third 
baseman Isabel Lavrov. This offense 
proved to be contagious, as the Tritons tacked on 3 more runs a fterward, putting 
up a 6-spot in the second inning. In the third, the Tritons tallied on 4 more to 
their total, with senior third baseman Maddy Lewis (double, RBI), freshman first baseman Clarissa Reynoso (single, 
RBI), and Wing (single, 2 RBI) all contributing o ffensively. 
The Seawolves scored their only runs 
in the third inning on a 2-run home run. 
Quality outings from Tritons pitchers 
junior Alanna Phillips (4 innings) and 
freshman Grace Garcia, who came in 
relief, limited Sonoma State to a total of just 5 hits. The game was wrapped 
up early due to the run rule a fter game 
MVPs Bosinger and Wing both launched 
2-run home runs in the top of the fifth 
inning to give UCSD a 14–2 advantage. Bosinger and Wing now each lead the 
team in home runs (3), with Wing also 
leading in the RBI column at 15. 
Since the second doubleheader on 
March 9 was canceled due to weather, 
the Triton so ftball team will shi ft 
its focus on to San Francisco State University (10–8 overall, 7–8 in CCAA) which it will face at home in a 4-game 
series starting on Thursday, March 14. 
With seven out of nine starters batting above .300 and three of four pitchers 
sporting a sub-2.00 ERA, the Tritons are 
already proving they’re the team to beat 
this season. BY Hayden Wellbeloved
staff Writer
Ha yden Wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.eduWomen’s Basketball Brings Home CCAA 
Title, Sets Sights on DII Tournament
The Tritons finish the series in first 
place in the CCAA with a 14-3 
record. 