The University of California 
has created a task force to 
research the effectiveness of standardized tests to gauge prospective students’ academic ability. Requested by UC President Janet Napolitano in July 2018, the task force will release their recommendations sometime in the 2019-2020 school year.  
Over 900 universities 
throughout the country have already removed the standardized testing requirement and made the exams optional for prospective students to 
submit with their application. 
Many universities have dropped the requirement, citing that test scores often are skewed unfavorably towards low-income or minority students.Taking the data from the 
College Board’s 2015 Total Group Profile Report, there is a noticeable gap with average scores depending on the test taker’s race. Further analyzed by a report from the Brookings 
Institute, the data reinforces 
longtime concerns that Scholastic Aptitude Test scores reflect race inequality. As a result of this and The Center for Medical Cannabis Research at UC San Diego has been researching the risks and unclaimed 
benefits of using Cannabidiol, which is more commonly known as CBD. Recent findings from the CMBR have found a wave of interest regarding internet searches and unregulated tests regarding CBD oils.
Since Proposition 215 passed in 1996, medical 
marijuana has been accessible to medicinal users without any penalties. Following 2016’s Proposition 64 that legalized marijuana for everyone in California, research regarding both medical and recreational use of the drug has been on the rise. 
Currently, the CMBR awarded five teams 
grants to research a variety of different uses for CBD oils, including to treat cases of arthritis, alcohol dependence, and the abuse of other substances. 
More studies are being planned by the CMBR 
to see the benefits of CBD oils in a controlled research environment. Igor Grant, the director of CMBR, has pushed towards more research opportunities regarding the benefits of CBD oils.
“Within the medical community, there is a 
lot of interest in the role of medical cannabis and CBD, ” Grant said. “There is a hope that it could be yet another useful agent in some of these conditions, which are difficult to treat or disabling. ”
Concern surrounding the benefits of CBD 
oils are starting to make the public interested in investing and trying out CBD oils at home for various illnesses. According to another UCSD study, CBD oils are being used to treat both alcohol dependence and physical pain illnesses like arthritis.  
The Food and Drug Branch of the California 
Department of Public Health allows food to be sold with marijuana contents, which makes it easier for people to get access to CBD oils without a prescription.
With more access to CBD oils, people are 
more interested in trying this method for various conditions. According to a study by UCSD, people are more willing to try out CBD oils and marking it as the “cure-all drug. ” However, researchers at Harvard University state that there are health benefits to using CBD oils, but it is not by any means a cure-all drug.
Even with this mixed information, there has 
been a massive increase in searches regarding the usage of CBD from 2017 to 2019.
John W . Ayers, Vice Chief of Innovation in 
the Division of Infectious Disease and Global Public Health at UCSD, voices how the public has gotten more interested in researching CBD oils for medical purposes. 
“CBD has become insanely popular, ” Ayers 
said. “Three years ago, there was essentially no one searching about CBD online, but now there are an estimated 6.4 million unique searches each month. ”
The main area of concern with CBD 
oil is that people are trying it in place of conventional medicine, with no indication if the oil is working. While CBD oils have benefits in treating seizures in children with Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, when it comes to pain relief, CBD oils need to be tested further to see if it is a viable option.
At this time, UCSD recommends not to try 
CBD as a replacement for medicine in cases that haven’t been tested in a clinical trial.VOLUME 53, ISSUE 10  MONDA Y , DECEMBER 2, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC SYSTEM
UC to Consider Changing SAT/ACT Requirement for Application
San Diego celebrates Wonderfront Music & Arts Festival by the sea // Photo by Hannah Rosenberg
By  SEPAND  ROUZ    CONTRIBUTING WRITERRESEARCH
UCSD Researchers Evaluate Risks for CannabidiolPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"The actions taken by the 
HKPF show that their 
disproportionate and 
uncontrolled responses have 
created further divisions in 
the city through increased 
tensions between the police 
and the protestors."
ARTS  IN  REVIEW
CAPSThe  Best  Of  The  Decade
Outda ted  servicesA&E,  PAGE  8
Opinion ,   Page  4
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"If present-day feminism 
has become anything, 
then it is now more 
inclusive than before, 
moving past expanding 
rights for women alone 
but also tackling sexual 
violence that affects 
every identity."MONDAY
 H 64 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 63 L 54
TUESDAY
H 63 L 57
THURSDAY
H 63 L 53
DECEMBER PEEKS.......10
WITHOUT A LAPTOP ......11
LIFESTYLE DECADE.......12 
TRITON TIMEOUT...........15
SPORTS POSTER...........16Lanlily Nguyen
 Feminism
 PAGE 6The potential change will be considered once the UC task force finishes their assessment of standardized testing
BY andrew  ha
Associate News EditorOPINION: HONG KONG 
POLICE BRUTALITY
Opinion, page 4
See TEST,  page 3
School of  
Medicine Initiates 
Phage Study
The treatment will target alcoholic 
liver disease with minimal side effects
In a recent UC San Diego 
School of Medicine study, 
successful mice trials for a new treatment show promising results on the use of phage therapy to target alcoholic liver disease. The researchers have been conducting such trials since Spring 2017.
Bacteriophages, or phages, 
are naturally present viruses that infect and “eat” bacteria. Unlike antibiotics, which also destroy bacteria in a “kill-them-all” manner, phages target a particular kind of bacteria strain 
with minimal side effects. Since 
phages live on bacteria, the phage degrades when the host bacteria dies. Due to the high specificity of the target bacteria, phage therapy is still a limited application in practice, which makes it a field of massive study for researchers. 
At present, the most 
commonly used treatments for alcoholic liver disease include liver transplantation and corticosteroids, a hormone used to reduce liver inflammation. However, liver transplantation is not a readily available option as the national waitlist for a healthy liver is approximately 14,000 people long, and surgeries are offered at a select few medical centers. Likewise, corticosteroid treatment is not a guaranteed solution as the effects of the treatment vary among different individuals.
Liver damage accumulates 
over years of alcoholism. Once severe symptoms begin to show, up to 90 percent of patients die 
within 90 days of a diagnosis 
of severe alcoholic liver disease, known as alcoholic hepatitis. 
With a focus on the 
relationship between liver disease and intestinal microorganisms, the Dr. Bernd Schnabl Lab at UCSD has identified and correlated bacterial infection with liver disease in their previous study. 
Yi Duan, a postdoctoral 
student in Schnabl’s lab group and the first author of the research paper, spoke to the UCSD Guardian about the correlation between liver damage and phage treatment.
“ Alcohol can directly damage 
liver cells, therefore typically the liver injury in those patients was considered to be caused mainly by alcohol, not by bacteria infections, ” Duan said. “Because of this, phage treatment was not considered as a treatment for alcoholic liver disease before. ” MEDICINE
BY  ZHOUying  lin
CONTRIBUTING writer
See PHAGE,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranovawhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
No comment, boomer.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Colleen Conradi
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Compton Cookout
In Winter Quarter 2010, a 
racist fraternity party called 
“The Compton Cookout” was 
advertised in an effort to mock Black History Month and to 
stereotype African-American 
students. The subsequent 
demonstrations and protests came 
to be known as Black Winter, 
and included students and faculty 
protesting the administration to take a stand against on campus 
racism.
As a result of the protests, the 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
requirement was implemented 
into the core curriculum for all 
undergraduate students. Likewise, several student resource centers, 
like the Raza Resource Centro, 
and murals celebrating diversity 
were created around campus.
DACA
The Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals program 
was signed into law as an 
executive order under the 
Obama administration in 2012. Authorized by the then Secretary 
of Homeland Security and current 
University of California President 
Janet Napolitano, the policy 
allowed individuals brought to the United States unlawfully as 
children to defer deportation and 
to allow them to obtain work 
permits, with the ability to renew 
their presence in the country 
every two years. 
Under the Trump 
administration, however, the policy has been under attack, with 
plans to phase out the program 
entirely beginning at the onset 
of his presidency. Napolitano has 
led the UC system in suing the 
Trump administration to prevent the cancellation of the program, 
which has made its way up to the 
Supreme Court. A decision on the 
matter is expected in Spring 2020. 
Trump Presidency
Arguably one of the most 
polarizing figures in modern 
American politics, the election of 
President Donald Trump sparked numerous demonstrations from the start of his inauguration, 
including the now annual 
Women’s March.
Trump has brought in a 
number of changes to the United States, as well as to the 
image of the presidency. Under 
his administration, Trump has 
removed the U.S from the Paris 
Climate Agreement, implemented 
a travel ban affecting a number of predominantly Muslim countries, 
and has publicly encouraged the 
rollback of the Affordable Care 
Act. In Fall 2019, the House 
of Representatives began an 
impeachment inquiry against 
President Trump following a whistleblower alleging that 
Trump had abused his power 
by threatening to withhold 
previously approved military 
aid to the Ukraine if President 
Volodymyr Zelensky did not pursue an investigation into Joe Biden’s son.
LGBT Rights
The 2010s saw a number of 
gains and losses for the LGBT+ community. While same-
sex marriage was legalized in 
California following a federal 
court overrule of Proposition 8 in 2010 and a redefining of 
marriage in the state constitution 
in 2014, the same would not be 
legalized nationwide until 2015 
with Obergefell v. Hodges, which 
saw the Supreme Court ruling in 
favor of same-sex marriage.
However, progress for LGBT+ 
rights has been slow for many other issues. Bathroom bills, which 
are aimed to prevent transgender 
individuals from using the 
bathroom that matches their 
gender identity, have popped up for debate throughout the decade 
in states and localities like North 
Carolina and Texas. Additionally, 
the Trump administration has 
banned transgender citizens 
from serving in the United States 
military.
Me Too Movement
While the phrase #MeToo was first used in 2006 by activist and 
sexual assault survivor Tarana 
Burke, the movement against 
sexual harrassment and sexual 
assault came to a boiling point in 2017 following reports from 
the New Y ork Times and the New 
Y orker of widespread allegations 
of sexual-abuse against Harvey 
Weinstein. 
Following the reports, 
many people were inspired to come forward with their own 
experiences of sexual-abuse 
calling out people ranging from 
coworkers to former NBC anchor 
Matt Lauer to Donald Trump. 
The accusations have sparked 
conversation throughout all levels of society, leading many 
workplaces to implement changes 
in the way that equity and 
inclusion are handled to ensure a 
safe workplace environment.
School Shootings
School shootings were 
devastatingly commonplace 
throughout the decade. Some 
of the more prominent, like the Sandy Hook Elementary 
School shooting in 2012 and 
the Stoneman Douglas High 
School shooting in 2018, led to 
national demonstrations calling for legislative action to prevent 
further violent attacks.
The results of the protests 
so far have been mixed on the 
Congressional level, where many 
legislators have close ties to the 
National Rifle Association, the largest national proponent of the 
Second Amendment. However, 
protests on the local level, 
including one in Winter Quarter 
2018 at UCSD, have gained 
support from local leaders, with 
gun violence prevention being a winning campaign message in the 
2018 midterm elections. 
Marijuana Legalization
Cannabis became much 
more mainstream in the 2010s. Following the legalization 
of recreational marijuana in 
Washington and Colorado in 2012, 
excitement over the possibilities to use the infamous drug without penalty, as well as the potential for 
the decriminalization of its use, 
quickly spread across the country. 
California, which was the first state to legalize medical marijuana 
in 1996, legalized recreational 
use of the drug in 2016 with 
Proposition 64, which went into 
effect in 2018.
At the start of the new decade, 
11 states, along with the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana 
Islands, and Guam, will all have 
legalized recreational cannabis in 
spite of its federal prohibition. 
Likewise, in January 2020, 15 
states and the U.S. Virgin Islands 
will have decriminalized the drug.
Pradeep Khosla
Pradeep Khosla became 
Chancellor of UC San Diego at the beginning of Fall Quarter 
2012. Since assuming the position, Khosla has brought in a number of changes to the campus, most 
notably pursuing the expansion of 
the university through numerous 
construction projects including the North Torrey Pines Living and 
Learning Community and Mesa 
Nueva. The chancellor also began 
the transition of UCSD being a 
Division 1 university, a process which began with the acceptance 
into the Big West Conference and 
will conclude with all sports teams 
transitioning to that level by the 
end of 2020.
More recently, Khosla has 
come under fire for allegations of exhibiting bully behavior towards 
campus employees in 2019. In 
spite of this, the chancellor has 
remained a controversial yet 
beloved figure amongst many 
in the student body, sparking 
numerous memes, including the Twitter account @UCScamDiego.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor DECADE   REViewThe 2010s will certainly be remembered as a decade 
of newsworthy events, many of which will have lasting 
effects for generations to come. Below are a handful 
of the biggest news stories that have impacted UC San Diego students throughout the decade.NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
In both the human case studies 
and the mice experiments, the group 
found that the translocation of the gut bacteria, Enterococcus Faecalis, can cause bacterial infection in the liver. Additionally, proton-pump inhibitors or PPIs, a commonly used drug to reduce gastric acid secretion and acid reflux for patients with chronic liver disease due to alcoholism, create a positive feedback loop in patients which  worsens the condition.
Postdoctoral student and co-author 
of the paper Cristina Llorente elaborated on the side effects of PPIs to the Guardian.
 “[PPIs cause] expansion of 
Enterococcus Faecalis, and ethanol increases intestinal permeability, and then Enterococcus Faecalis [that] translocates via portal vein arrives to the liver, ” Llorente said.
The group’s previous study on the 
translocation of Enterococcus faecalis was published in October 2017, and the result provided motivation for the current project of phage therapy. 
The researchers isolated four different 
phages from sewage water that target Enterococcus faecalis. They found that some Enterococcus faecalis can secrete a toxin called cytolysin. In the mice trials, 
the team and collaborators transferred 
feces from people with alcoholic disease to the mice. The results showed that while not all Enterococcus faecalis are cytolysin-positive, there is a positive correlation between cytolysin-positive Enterococcus faecalis and the severity of the disease. Likewise, the presence of phage decreased cytolysin and alleviated alcoholic liver disease in the group of mice overall.
Now that the researchers have 
found that phage therapy leads to an on-average positive result in humanized mice groups with alcoholic liver disease, the next step for Schnabl’s lab is to test the safety of phage therapy in humans to validate their findings in clinical trials. This research is a part of a long-term effort among multiple institutions 
over the past years, and continuous 
progress is made to move beyond simply identifying the problem.
similar reports, the UC created their 
own body to assess standardized tests.
“The Senate has since established a 
Task Force to determine whether SAT 
and ACT tests are useful measures of academic performance for the admissions process, ” UC Office of the President Director of Media Relations Claire Doan said to the UCSD Guardian. “The university is currently waiting for the assessment and recommendations from the Academic Senate’s Task Force before determining whether any steps should be taken on this important issue. ”
Overall, a majority of United States universities still use standardized testing 
in the application process. Schools, 
including all in the UC system and those who are test-optional, continue to work with the College Board for their recruitment and admissions process in varying capacities.
“The College Board’s 2019 National 
Validity Test, based on data from more than 223,000 students across 171 four-year colleges, confirmed that SAT scores are strongly predictive of college performance, ” Director of Media Relations for the College Board Jerome White said. “We will continue to work with the University of California as 
it addresses the challenging tasks of 
admitting students from among thousands of qualified applicants and supporting their success when they arrive on campus. ”
The UC system will continue to use 
standardized tests in their application process and will reconsider once the task force’s assessment is complete. 
GONNA BE ALRIGHT
By Michi Sora
T esting will continue with human trials before a final review on the safety of  the treatment is made
The UC will continue to use standardized tests until UCOP makes a decision on the matter▶ PHAGE , from page 1
▶ TEST , from page 1
andrew  Ha   NEWS@ucsdguardian.orgZHOUYINg  LIN   zhl509@ucsd.edu
LIKE  US  ON  FACEBOOK  FOR  NEWS  UPDATES!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
On November 2019, President Donald Trump 
signed into law the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, showing U.S. support 
for Hong Kong’s protests and seeking to protect those fighting for democracy. Some people at home and abroad, however, criticize the law as well as the protests in Hong Kong for causing damage to the city. But while violence should never be an acceptable method of protest, if one is to look at the violence in Hong Kong, then one must look at the bigger picture of violence in the city and include the Hong Kong Police Force in this picture. The actions of the HKPF have not only escalated the protests but have also invited more violence in return. The HKPF have frequently escalated and continued to intensify the situation in the protests, from firing pepper spray at unarmed protestors to shooting live 
rounds at others. The violence occurring in Hong Kong, 
from both protestors and police alike, is not a product 
of protester terrorism — it is in part a direct result of disproportionate responses from the HKPF.
Police brutality has become all too common in the 
protests. On Nov. 22, the HKPF arrested Red Cross medical volunteers for “participating in riots.”, an action criticized by the international community as unprecedented and unnecessary. But even before the protests and police responses escalated tensions in the city, a “small group of protesters threw bricks, bottles and umbrellas at officers” in the summer of 2019 when large scale protests began. The Hong Kong Police Department then began to use riot control ammunition on unarmed protestors, and also began to fire tear gas at peaceful protestors. The police department used the actions of a few violent protesters as a reason to attack everyone in the protests and not just the select few who actually participated in the violence. This was disproportional by nature, and when the HKPF began to use these tactics on peaceful protestors, they sowed the seeds of resentment against the police that is so evident today. Ng Ying-mo was a victim of this kind of police brutality. In a video released by the New York Times, he is seen approaching the police line, unarmed, when he is shot with a pepper spray round by a police officer. He passed out from the pain and is later seen being dragged then beaten by other officers. Another man distributing water was tackled to the ground and beaten by multiple officers. Experts in riot control in the same video described their response as “an essay on how not to police a protest movement.” And when police shot a man with live rounds in mid-November, the police marked a new chapter of greater violence. Hence, the violence from protestors is at least in part a response to instances of police brutality and injustice. While violence as a response to violence only creates greater tensions, something that protestors and police are both guilty of, retaliation by untrained, frustrated protestors is understandable. Retaliation and brutality by trained officers, however, are not.
The actions taken by the HKPF show that their 
disproportionate and uncontrolled responses have created further divisions in the city through increased tensions between the police and the protestors. The disproportionate response of the HKPF, therefore, seems to have added fuel to the protests in Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong Cultural Society, a club at UC San 
Diego, reached out to the UCSD Guardian to provide us with more perspective on the protests. As Hong Kong natives, the HKCS students stated that while the damage to the city is regrettable, the protesters are fighting for the survival of the city as they know it. Furthermore, the recent election in Hong Kong shows the democratic will in the city and reflects what the people want at the very least: the proper continuation of the “one country, two systems” principle as well as distance from the Communist Party of China. And while over 4,000 people were arrested for participating in the protests, not a single police officer has been punished for the brutality displayed in the city. The lack of transparency and accountability regarding unrestrained arrests — even of nearly a thousand children — makes the cessation of hostilities much more difficult. Such actions are only divisive and unproductive for the protests in Hong Kong. In order to address violence in the city’s protests, the police force must also be part of the solution; it is not only the fault of the protestors. While those participating in violent protests may justifiably be brought to justice, if one is to punish violence in the city, then one must also punish the acts of violence by the HKPF that have escalated the severity of the protests. 
The escalating violence of the protests is likely in part 
due to the direct result of the disproportionate responses of the Hong Kong Police. When trained officers of the city only create further divisions and hostilities in the city, greater protests are all but surprising. While violence should not be a facet of protest, the police responded to peaceful protests with violence first. The escalation of hostilities is a product of unnecessarily harsh policies and unrestrained arrests. In order to find a peaceful future for Hong Kong, protestors and police 
must seek to stop unnecessary escalations of violence 
and tension and be held accountable for their actions relative to their roles.
By: Sean Kim //  Contributing WriterHong Kong: The Problem about Police 
Brutality
New Year, Same Outdated Mental Health Services
By: Chloe Esser // A&E EditorOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
One of this decade’s key issues has been the fight 
against the stigmatization of mental health issues. 
More than ever, people have spoken out about their experiences with depression, anxiety, eating disorders, and all manner of other mental health concerns. In this way, it seems that UC San Diego should have been ahead of its time. As noted on its website, Counseling 
and Psychological Services has been a part of the campus since the late 1960s, a decade when college mental health services were still not particularly common. Given this long-standing relationship with student mental health, UCSD should have theoretically 
been able to keep up with the times by recognizing the 
critical need for mental health services as awareness grows, especially at a campus known for it’s asocial, stress-driven, often lonely atmosphere. However, as almost any UCSD student could tell you, this is far from the case. 
My own experiences with CAPS have been pretty 
par for the course. I first made contact with CAPS as a freshman struggling with feelings of loneliness at this new school, and the extreme stress all too common among overachieving first years. I came to CAPS in real need of meaningful help, naively optimistic about the seemingly comprehensive resources my new school offered. Instead, I was given a month-long wait for my first appointment and was sent off with no diagnosis and no directions after three sessions. Severely underwhelmed by the help I had been given during one of the darkest times in my life, I did not try to get help again for over a year, when I, like many other students disillusioned by campus services, neared a breaking point.
My experience with CAPS is far from unique. The 
department, part of UCSD’s Student Health Services, is well known for its long wait times, usually making students wait for weeks at a time for even a preliminary phone call prior to scheduling an actual counseling appointment. Despite advertising that all students paying tuition will have access to SHS programs, CAPS 
See CAPS,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
THE SYNDICATE  
By Yui Kita
has been known to refer students 
with pre-existing mental health issues off-campus. Likewise, students with Reduced Access Fee for Tritons insurance rather than the Student Health Insurance Plan are usually only allowed three sessions with a CAPS counselor before being told to find help off-campus for long term therapy. In this regard, it seems as if CAPS is focused on short-term, single-issue counseling 
— but bizarrely, only for those with lax 
enough issues that they don’t mind the weeks of waiting for an appointment. 
In addition to sending students off-
campus, CAPS generally provides very little help with the referral process. For students overwhelmed by the prospect of finding a good fit for therapy, hesitant to use a family insurance plan for fear of facing stigma, or without easy access to areas off-campus, this can often mean the difference between getting help or letting their problems fester. For students looking for immediate help through CAPS, the long wait times can be equally off-putting. The stakes of this issue are all too high. Suicide is the second leading cause of death among college students, and lack of assistance from counseling centers can often be a contributing cause. In one 2018 case at Brigham Young University, a student’s suicide was directly linked to weeks-long wait times with school psychological services. UCSD is already well known for an isolated, competitive 
environment, issues that can easily lead 
to anxiety and depression. If UCSD isn’t going to handle the root of this problem, then it is its responsibility to at least handle the effects before too many students are driven too far.
So what can it do? The most obvious 
solution is to allocate more funding to CAPS so its services can finally match the needs of its massive student body. At the very least, CAPS needs to be able to cut down on its abysmal wait times, and hopefully allow for more long-term counseling options. And if these long-term options are unattainable, then UCSD needs to provide more guidance through the referral process, actually working with students to find counselors through their insurance 
plans that will be able to meet their 
needs. But there are so many more financially feasible options too. Several schools, such as the University of Colorado and Skidmore College, have set up programs for short, long-distance counseling through phone calls, video chat, and even online messaging. These options don’t necessarily mean hiring more staff but would make all the difference for a student in need. 
When I was facing my own struggles, 
I was eventually able to find help — but despite UCSD’s services, not because of them. Many students haven’t been so lucky. It’s time UCSD takes responsibility for its students’ welfare and gives them the help they deserve.  
 ▶ CAPS , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Thirteen years ago, civil rights activist Tarana Burke founded the 
#MeToo movement on Myspace and what would be one of the most defining and impactful advances for gender equity regarding sexual 
violence across the globe. As a youth worker and sexual assault survivor, Burke started the movement to empower women by fostering empathy across a wider community, connecting sexual assault and harassment survivors to share their stories. But, it was not until 2017, when white actress Alyssa Milano called to the women of Twitter to write #MeToo to “give people a sense of the magnitude of the problem, ” that Burke’s hashtag received substantial recognition — at the hands of someone else. Many celebrities such as Jennifer Lawrence, Angelina Jolie, and Gwenyth Paltrow responded to Milano’s tweet with accounts of their personal experiences, drawing popular attention to the stories shared by predominantly white women in Hollywood. 
While it was mostly upper-class white women who brought attention to the 
issue, #MeToo at its start was designed by Burke to aid surviviors of sexual violence, especially black women and women of color from lower-income 
communities. By offering resources such as those offered on the #MeToo 
website, the movement works to lead survivors on paths to healing. Since the #MeToo hashtag went viral on Twitter in 2017, a wide recognition had initiated a long-overdue conversation about sexual assault and harassment. 
Feminism, defined by Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie in her 
2014 book “We Should All Be Feminists, ” is the “political, economic, personal, and social equality of the sexes. ” #MeToo is currently happening in fourth-wave feminism. Notably, a crucial characteristic of the fourth wave is its expansion of the people who should be included in the feminist fight. This inclusion sharply contrasts from previous waves such as the first when being a “feminist” in the 1800s was dictated by white middle-class women. In the second wave around the 1950s and ‘60s, the focus of the movement expanded beyond just voting rights and included topics of domestic violence and reproductive rights. However, this feminist wave was again largely led by middle-class white women, which alienated many women of color. If present-day feminism has become anything, then it is now more 
inclusive than before, moving past expanding rights for women alone but also 
tackling sexual violence that affects every identity. 
What has made this movement so strong and substantial is its push to make 
everyone a part of the movement. Intersectionality has been the approach from the beginning and this was imperative to the long-term success of #MeToo with its goal for inclusivity of all survivors and those in solidarity. #MeToohelped survivors to share their experiences and  allies to become a part of this larger community and choose to stand with others who have been victims of sexual harassment and assualt.
The newest feminist movement of #MeToo separates itself from previous 
waves by leveraging mass communication to share ideas faster, making it open to more individuals everywhere. With its start on Myspace in 2006, Burke knew the importance of getting the word out as it was strength in numbers that would establish a community to progress the movement. And as social media platforms grew into the 2010s with the likes of Facebook and Twitter, so did the movement.
Before the upsurge of #MeToo tweets, expansion for gender equity has 
always been an ongoing battle. The 1990s up to the 2010s, deemed as the period of third-wave feminism, introduced new approaches to feminism with steps to be more inclusive of different races and generations of women. While this approach struggled to be fully inclusive, it was a necessary step to get where we are today. An important concept from this era was U.S. lawyer and civil rights advocate Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw’s theory on intersectionality, which addresses the overlaps in discimination toward multiple economic, social, and political identities. The third wave also included U.S. lawyer and academic Anita Hill’s unforgettable aired testimony in 1991 on her sexual assault accusations against Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Although Hill was generally dismissed during her Senate hearing and Justice Thomas remains in his seat today, Hill’s testimony sparked major debate and national protests on the issue of men in power abusing their positions. This would be a major step in how reactions to issues like this changed going into the 2010s.
It appears that the #Me Too movement itself made its broadest strokes in 
the later part of the decade since its founding. So how has #MeToo gotten so popular? What may have arguably been a turning point was the 2016 U.S. presidential election that came down to former Secretary of State and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and businessman and Republican nominee Donald Trump. Trump was elected president of the United States on the night of Nov. 8, 2016. Even during his campaign trail, Trump had been accused of touching women inappropriately and had notoriously been heard over a 2005 recording obtained by The Washington Post where he bragged about “grabbing them by the pussy. ”
Trump’s conservative platform had declared excessive limits to women’s health 
rights such as defunding Planned Parenthood based on the “abortion factor” and proposing a global gag rule that would restrict U.S. family planning funds from going to foreign non-governmental organizations that provide abortion services. Trump’s win posed a threat to anyone who potentially needed access to an abortion procedure. Not only was this dangerous legally, but it also spoke to a threats toward respecting the bodily autonomy of individuals, especially of those who can carry children. Such threats to safety sparked outrage and mass 
protests such as the Women’s March in 2017, a demonstration in Washington D.C. to push for civil rights and equality. It was one of the largest demonstrations in U.S. history and had displayed the massive population affected by the injustice.
Since then, the reputations and careers of 
many powerful men have been diminished as more individuals come forward about their personal experiences with sexual abuse. The likes of former USA Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar, former U.S. film producer Harvey Weinstein, and a slew of other 
Hollywood elites like Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey and director Brett 
Ratner have been called out publicly to face their sexual assault allegations. 
During Nassar’s trial in January 2018, more than 150 young women and girls, including Olympic gold-medalist Ally Raisman, shared their emotional testimonies before the Eaton County Court in Michigan. Judge Rosemarie Aquilina sentenced Nassar to 175 years in prison for seven counts of criminal sexual misconduct and left him with these words: “I hope you are shaken to your core; your victims are clearly shaken to their core. And I know there are still some who ask, ‘are you broken because you got caught?’”
A similar series of events happened to Weinstein, Spacey, and Ratner in 
some form or another, where more victims came forward with the belief that speaking up would be worth it. And for the most part, it has. Particularly in the Weinstein case, powerful Hollywood elites such as Ashley Judd, Cara Delevigne, Rose McGowan, Uma Thurman, and Kate Beckinsale accused the producer of sexual abuse or harassment. While they spoke up about it, they also had the resources and the confidence in their careers to more safely do so, which spells out differently for victims with much less. Weinstein is currently undergoing a series of trials and could possibly face life in prison. For other celebrities facing allegations, their careers have been severely damaged if not indefinitely suspended with Spacey being completely replaced in movies and actresses like Gal Gadot refusing to work with Ratner. 
While Hollywood is often a world of its own, the topic of sexual harassment 
and assault are real world issues. And to deal with it, state legislatures in recent years have enacted a number of bills concerning sexual violence. Just this past year, Arizona enacted legislation to confront the issue of non-disclosure  
Looking  Back  on  the  Feminist  
Evolution  and  Revolution  of  
the  2010 sTHE  DECADE  IN  REVIEW:
As the 2010s come to an end, we review the celebration and expansion of gender equity and ask what can be in store for 
2020 and beyond.
By  lanlil y  nguyen    Contributing writer
See FEMINISM,  page 7“If present-day feminism has become 
anything, then it is now more 
inclusive than before, moving past 
expanding rights for women alone 
but also tackling sexual violence that 
affects every identity.”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
agreements, previously signed contracts that could bar victims of assault from 
speaking out against their perpetrators. Republican State Rep. and cosponsor of the bill Maria Syms stated that the case against Nassar showed how non-disclosure agreements were being used to silence victims. One example of this was with U.S. Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney who almost faced a $100,000 fine for testifying against him in court.
#MeToo has also made its way to Congress with the success of the reformed 
version of the  Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, which passed in December 2018. The act significantly improved the process for congressional employees to report allegations of sexual harassment, holding lawmakers financially liable for harassment settlements. The legislation was a direct response to the increasing number of congressional aides coming forward about their harassment by a member of Congress or a high-ranking aide, all done in a similar fashion to the Weinstein and Nassar cases. 
Moving from large nationwide political turmoil, #MeToo has affected the 
everyday lives of men and women when it comes to the common workplace. 
The job market itself has introduced more women, with research showing that 
they make up nearly half the workforce. There has also been an improvement in the gender wage gap since 1980, but it has remained relatively stable for about the past 15 years. In 2017, it was reported that men had felt increasingly terrified about having to be alone with women at work. Fox News host Geraldo Rivera had claimed the movement was “criminalizing courtship” and conflates the issue with worse cases of predation. Simple things such as a friendly hug between colleagues or talking about personal lives posed a risk for many men as it could be taken the wrong way and they could potentially face similar consequences like Weinstein and Nassar. 
As Hill put it in an interview on “This Week Tonight with John Oliver” 
where she was asked about the increasing trend of men terrified of being alone with women at the workplace, should they be scared? Hill replied keenly, ”Not if they’re not harassers. ” 
But what’s next for #MeToo? What may be in store for 2020 and beyond is building on this cultivated 
inclusivity. Looking at the history of feminism as a whole, it has been working toward collapsing these rifts in the ideology of feminism. Criticisms as old as second-wave feminism are still apparent in #MeToo such as its greater attention to wealthier white women. There is also notably a great debate on how victims should deal with their experiences. One school of thought argues that women should endure the pain and not complain about their encounters but remain strong and independent as it is just part of the female experience. In contrast, others believe that a collective experience of sharing personal stories and banding together is the path to liberation, more in line with the strategy of #MeToo. 
If we are to tackle the issue from all sides, we can start with educating 
ourselves more on the social expectations we put on different spectrums of identities, including gender and sexual orientation. #MeToo has also struggled with including transgender people as part of the conversation, keeping many in the dark as advances are made for cisgender identities. Having people view their pain and suffering as something they have to deal with on their own may detrimentally perpetuate the culture of gender discrimination. Saying sexual 
violence is just part of womanhood places intense pressure upon individuals to 
be “strong” and to just accept the pain, a particularly common experience for transgender women. 
The goal into the next decade is to divert our attention from the isolation 
that makes us weaker and growing toward sharing the pain from sexual violence and gender inequity, as different as these specific encounters may be. #MeToo has been effective in gathering many people with increasing diversity than previous waves of feminism, but we can always do better. The diversity of the movement is key, and silencing the likes of gay women, transgender women, black women, Latina women, and anyone witnessing gender discrimination hurts the purpose of #MeToo by limiting the collective. Burke was right from the very beginning: It is the strength in numbers that will make the crusade against sexual violence succeed. 
For now, we can appreciate the advances made for gender equity in review 
of the past decade. Even with the occasional losses, #MeToo needs to keep growing in numbers, diversity, and shared stories. Today, we can get angry. Tomorrow, we get together.
Equality is not a zero-sum game; pushing for the rights of one group supports the equality of other disenfranchised groups as well.
▶ FEMINISM , from page 6GRAPHIC COURTESY OF DIAMONDLEADERSHIP .COMGRAPHIC COURTESY OF DIAMONDLEADERSHIP .COMA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG DECADE
The past decade in music has been so dramatic with the rise and fall 
of certain genres and the disbanding of some beloved pop groups, it 
can be hard to even think back to what the industry was like in 2010. But considering the state of the music scene now to when it first began, it’s easy to pinpoint where major shifts have taken place, giving us a sneak peek to what the next decade in music might bring. 
If there’s one thing that defines the 2010s, it’s the revitalization 
of the boy band. Formed in 2010 on the competition show “The X Factor, ” One Direction undoubtedly defined the pop scene for the first half of the decade. From its very first 2011 hit single “What Makes You Beautiful, ” fans were in a frenzy over the boy band, showcasing a special type of adoration on level with Beatlemania. While One Direction has split up now — Harry Styles and Zayn Malik have done the most with their solo careers — its impact on the boy band movement is undeniable, and we can see how it reappeared in the later years. Power pop group 5 Seconds of Summer demonstrated an edgier 
yet still palatable version of the boy band, proving that boy bands 
can play instruments and write their own music too. The diverse rap collective BROCKHAMPTON self-defines itself as “the biggest boy band in the world, ” completely turning the bubblegum pop boy band stereotype on its head. Now, the term “boy band” is bigger than ever, even extending to South Korean boy band BTS, which has found popularity in the West despite primarily singing in Korean.
Another major change in the 2010s was the dominance of rap 
music. In early 2018, Billboard stated that rhythm and blues/hip-hop succeeded rock for the first time as the U.S. ’s most popular genre of music. With artists such as Drake and Kendrick Lamar consistently producing hits and bangers, viral hits by Nicki Minaj and Post Malone, and Cardi B’s and DaBaby’s consistent Billboard hits, it’s hard to compete with the genre. Nowadays, even a typical pop song will have an underlying trap beat or rap-like verse to appeal to the general public, demonstrating the influence of hip-hop on other genres. Of course, with rap’s prominence came the creation of an underground subculture of Soundcloud rappers, including the likes of Lil Uzi Vert and Juice Wrld.However, some of the biggest shifts came from Latin America, 
from artists like Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee topping the Billboard Hot 100 for a record-tying 16 weeks with “Despacito” to the influence of Latin beats emerging in pop across the globe, even going into the new decade. While not being an artist from Latin America, Rosalía’s flamenco-infused form of hip-hop has utilized these Latin beats as well, garnering her a 2019 Grammy nomination for Best New Artist, the first ever for an artist that only sings in Spanish.
One of the most changed landscapes was teen pop. The decade 
started out with the familiar domination of Disney Channel stars — Selena Gomez, Demi Lovato, The Jonas Brothers — and the country, diary-like confessions from Taylor Swift. Then Swift went pop, Justin Bieber went electronic, and Miley Cyrus went … whatever you would call her in 2013. Viner-turned-pop artist Shawn Mendes and former Fifth Harmony member Camila Cabello are holdouts of the classic model, and Ariana Grande’s roots in the teen idol machine as a 
Nickelodeon star remain despite her current trap sound. Yet the anti-
pop darlings Lorde and Billie Eilish have ushered in a new era of music about teenage emotions that is darker, more ironic, and unfailingly blunt.
Maintaining icon status without fading or derailing is difficult for 
any artist, but the fact that Beyoncé became more central in the public conversation about culture over the last 10 years is groundbreaking. By disregarding the traditional album release cycle with the surprise drop of her 2013 self-titled record and releasing 2016’s “Lemonade” alongside a HBO film of the same name, Beyoncé’s influence in music is unprecedented and her impact outside of music has expanded. Already a musical icon, Beyonce became a social justice figure calling attention to issues like feminism and anti-black racism. “Pulling a Beyoncé” has become more than just dropping an album without 
warning — it’s redefining the music industry as we know it.
—   Jahfreen  Alam,  
A&E Editor
   Asiy ah  Syed,  Staff WriterMUSIC
The 2010s undoubtedly held a variety of breakout moments in the 
realm of television. From the rise of streaming giants like Netflix to 
the explosion of adult cartoons, the unprecedented fandoms of sci-fi mystery shows and the encapsulation of audiences through longer-form dramas, television has not only increased in accessibility, but deepened the investments of its audience members through this greater access to its content.
Although Netflix was established before the start of the decade, 
the first Netflix Original Series were released in 2013. Netflix released “House of Cards, ” “Hemlock Grove, ” “ Arrested Development, ” and of course “Orange is the New Black. ” “Orange is the New Black, ” created by Jenji Kohan, jump-started the modern notion of binge-watching, with 13 hours of content in its first season. As of July 2019, at least 105 million Netflix subscribers have watched at least one episode of the seven-season show, which had its final season released this year. The success of “Orange is the New Black” undoubtedly opened the door for 
the expansion of the streaming platform world, with original series now 
continually popping up on services such as Amazon Prime, HBO Now, Hulu, and, most recently, Disney+.
Another hallmark of the 2010s age of television is the massive push 
in adult cartoon creation. Previous decades may have seen the births of the still-running behemoths “South Park” and “The Simpsons, ” but this decade saw the beginnings of “Bojack Horseman, ” “Bob’s Burgers, ” and “Rick and Morty. ” Like their animated predecessors, these shows infuse witty humor, breakneck-speed dialogue, dynamic character relationships, vulgarity, modern social commentary, and surprising messages of hope in their absurd yet relatable presentations. One of the most notably popular adult animation series is “Rick and Morty, ” which follows the story of a drunken sociopathic scientist, Rick, who has named himself the smartest man in the universe. He and his fidgety, basket case of a grandson, Morty, go on countless adventures together, each one more bizarre than the last. In an animated format adults are receptive to, the creators of “Rick and Morty” have managed to extensively captivate audiences with their unique blend of crude humor and legitimate scientific knowledge.This past decade also gave rise to the fandom conglomerate that is 
the “SuperWhoLock” fandom. Comprised of fans of “Supernatural, ” “Doctor Who, ” and “Sherlock, ” this superfandom did not hesitate to make its presence known, especially on the popular social media platform Tumblr. These fans dominated the website with GIF content, fan theories, fan art, and fanfiction, and they epitomized the idea of the web-active, quirky 2010s science fiction and mystery connoisseur. This fandom was respected by some and feared by many, but ultimately provided a vast online community for fans of all ages, unmatched by other fandoms in the interconnectedness of the series represented and the pool of its fan content.
Additionally, few shows can compare to the large scale hype of 
longer-form dramas such as “Game of Thrones” and “Breaking Bad. ” Both HBO shows acquired massive fan bases around their high-tension situations, morally ambiguous characters, and complex plot maneuvering. The two shows ended on very different notes  with 
audiences overall pleased with the outcome of “Breaking Bad” and 
sorely disappointed with “Game of Thrones, ” but “Game of Thrones” deserves some credit for achieving more mainstream success than anyone may have originally dreamed of for a high-fantasy series. The presence of “Breaking Bad” continues to be felt in the prequel-esque spinoff series “Better Call Saul” and most recently in the film “El Camino” as fans continue their investments in these longer-form dramatic television shows.
Online accessibility has strengthened the television show’s hold on 
the modern audience in ways that previous decades weren’t capable of. Binge-watching, animation validity, fandom solidarity, and dramatic envelopment are all collaborators in the immense impact of 2010s television, which is sure to be foundationally utilized for decades to 
come.
 
—   Marina  Lee,  Contributing Writer
   Camila  morales,  Contributing WriterTELEVISIONGame of Thrones. The Fault in Our Stars. BTS. Instagram. Moonlight. This list is just a handful of the phenomena that 
shaped our culture now and for the future.  As 2019 draws to a close, the Guardian Arts and Entertainment sta ff reflects 
on what de fined the 2010s in terms of music, television series, social media, books, and films. arts  and  entertainment:  
The  Decade  In  ReviewA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
If there’s one word that sums up social media during the 2010s, it would be 
“corporatization. ” Open up any social media app you have today and chances 
are, you won’t make it far from the loading screen without a “suggested for you” post luring you in for a click.
The emphasis social media companies have placed on data collection and 
providing personalized advertising has transformed how well-known social 
media companies function. No other platform illustrates this change as well 
as Y ouTube does, which in a decade has metamorphosed from a fun, video-sharing service for family videos and comedy acts, like Smosh and Ryan Higa, to channels with high production values like Safiya Nygaard or James Charles, who capitalize on video blogs, also called vlogs, and product review videos to draw in audiences and generate revenue. Even household names like Pewdiepie appear to have succumbed to this trend, as Pewdiepie’s most recent videos seem to very cleanly fit the “influencer” mold. 
Influencer culture has permeated other media platforms too. The 2010s saw 
the rise and fall of Vine and Musical.ly, both of which utilized quick video skits and the relatability of the users to generate social clout, leading to the rise of new influencers like Danny Gonzalez and Drew Gooden. TikTok picked up when Vine and Musical.ly shut down, and because of its young audience, the ethics behind TikTok’s child stars have recently been put to question. 
All of this culminates in the necessity of a highly-wrought public appearance, 
where social clout and the ability to hone one’s appearance, humor, and tastes to the dictates of the latest trends is king. Internet media giant, BuzzFeed, saw 
its prime in the 2010s, and capitalized on these internet ideals, as the concept 
of relatability and the formation of a cohesive internet identity began to peak. Famous for their zany videos on YouTube, and their “listicles” on their news and media website, BuzzFeed became notorious for chasing down (and taking for their own) the latest internet memes, challenges, and interests of its viewers. Today, BuzzFeed has numerous YouTube channels, all of which are owned by the BuzzFeed company, but take advantage of many widespread audiences.Additionally popular to internet culture in the 2010s was the invention of 
the face filter, which, in the styling of older MacBook Photo Booth effects, tacked graphics ranging from silly to ethereal, that changed and enhanced the features of each user. Snapchat was the first platform to take advantage of such filters but was criticized for filters such as the “beauty enhancement” filter, which lightened skin tone and morphed faces to fit strict beauty standards. As 
a result, many users found themselves reliant on such face filters, which only 
grew and expanded in range, as Instagram picked up the trend in 2016. This, in addition to unattainable beauty standards set by the makeup artist community, made consumers particularly vulnerable to advertisements promoting beauty and lifestyle enhancement products.
Instagram led the way in advertisement-based content, relying on influencer 
culture in the 2010s. Like YouTube, Instagram began as an entertainment and social platform that grew into a corporate beast, with a number of “verified” Instagram members who post paid promotions and advertisements for numerous companies. As these platforms become more attractive advertising real estate, there is also a shift in these social media companies towards promoting “family-friendly” content creators and establishing tighter restrictions on the types of content that advertisements will be shown under, leading to the infamous “YouTube ad-pocalypses” that pushed many creators of more controversial content off the video-sharing platform. Time will tell if we will continue accepting the corporatized nature of social media or if we’ll find something better.
 
—   laura  hatanaka,  Senior Staff Writer
   Steven  Zhou,  Senior Staff Writer
The film scene of the 2010s was defined by a surge in mega-franchises and 
live-action reboots, with social movements like #MeToo and #OscarsSoWhite taking center stage. Here, we take a look at some of the highlights of the decade.
The decade’s box offices were undoubtedly dominated by the superhero 
genre, spearheaded by Walt Disney Co. ’s pop culture juggernaut, the Marvel Cinematic Universe. 2012’s “The Avengers” laid the groundwork for a constant line of immensely successful movies, such as “Spider-Man: Homecoming” and “Black Panther, ” ultimately leading up to the universe-colliding “ Avengers: Infinity War” and the highest-grossing film of all time, “ Avengers: Endgame. ” 
Disney’s grip on the movie industry also tightened with its acquisition of 
Lucasfilm in 2012. The revival of the once-seemingly untouchable Star Wars franchise with “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” has led to sold-out theaters, a deluge of toys and memes (see: Chewbacca Mom and Baby Yoda), and several subsequent spinoffs and sequels. Old and new fans flooded the theaters — and soon, Disney+ — to revisit their beloved storyline and deepen Disney’s pockets. 
Before ending off the name drops of this decade’ s Disney highlights, what 
would the decade of 2010 be without the mention of the animated powerhouse “Frozen?” This film took flight the moment it was released. Disney hung on its laurels, selling out on Frozen merchandise all over the world after the influx of love the film received from children, kids, teenagers, and adults alike. With the premise of two sisters that must navigate ruling a country on their own, the filmmakers created songs that were easy to catch onto, a likeable sister who was clumsy and dorky, and a lovable snowman unaware of the dangers of the sun.
“Get Out” was released in 2017, turning the world on its head with its 
commentary on racial alienation and sci-fi elements to demonstrate the brutality of old America. Due to its commentary on old America and the danger that society can fall into it, there was an added horror factor of reality. Not only does the film follow a black actor through the racism he always experiences, the film is a living satire on the accommodations white people believe people of color need. The disgusting truth behind the film’s plot caused a massive wave of controversy: Some people were claiming reverse racism while others laughed and were scared along with the main character.
Awards season always causes some upsets, but none so greater than the 2017 
Academy Awards. At a time when Hollywood faced intensified scrutiny for its lack of racial diversity with #OscarsSoWhite, the Best Picture mix-up between “La La Land” and “Moonlight” best embodied the tension between white, heterosexual narratives and racially and sexually diverse stories. While both critically acclaimed films, the surprise victory of “Moonlight” reflected a shift towards the public’s greater desire for and acceptance of  diverse representation in film.
The 2010s was a decade of both mass consumerism, represented by endless 
sequels and remakes and profits, and experimental filmmaking, with directors, 
writers, and actors ready to cross lines and break traditions. These films are 
only the beginning; there is a whirlwind coming for the film industry.
—   Hanaa  Moosavi,  
Contributing Writer
   Natalie  Tran,  Senior Staff Writer
Our first literary sensations for the 2010s are undoubtedly some of the most controversial: the rise of fanfiction and the self-published novel. Although the topic first took the world by storm in the early half of the decade when the 2011 release of the “Fifty Shades of Grey” trilogy swapped the vampires of “Twilight” vampires for billionaire CEOs with very specific sexual appetites, the controversy recently reared its head again with “ After, ” a series based off a popular One Direction fanfiction. Everything from the morality to the legality of these releases has been debated, but both novels earned their spot among the decade’s most memorable titles by proving fanfiction’s ability to turn a self-published story into a major franchise.
Next up is a genre that, while not exactly “Twilight” fanfiction, almost 
definitely owes its conception to that series. While the Twilight Saga finished releasing in 2008, it sparked a genre that was known to eat up entire Barnes and Noble bookshelves: teen paranormal romance. Many of us spent a decent chunk of middle school reading book after book about an unassuming but spunky teen girl falling for all sorts of magical monsters, such as the werewolves from “Shiver,” the angels from “Hush Hush,” and the vampyres from “ A House of Night” (that’s right, with a “y”). Love them or hate them, the 2010s would never have been the same without this particular craze.
What follows is arguably the most popular genre of the 2010s: contemporary 
young adult fiction. These books featured a cast of teenagers, all unique in their interests and experiences, who through “coming-of-age” tales came to terms with the harsher realities of life. They also dealt with more intense topics such as substance abuse and mental health as well as typical teenage woes. A prime example of this genre is author John Green and his 2012 release “The Fault in Our Stars. ” Practically every girl between eighth and 12th grade possessed a copy of this book and a piece of merchandise with “Okay? Okay” inscribed on it. Despite some criticisms that this novel romanticized being terminally ill, the romance between Hazel Grace Lancaster and Augustus Waters changed the game of young adult fiction, and many YA books in the last decade have veered toward that balance of serious topics and engaging youthful tone as a result.
And where would the 2010s be without dystopias? Prompted by the release 
of “The Hunger Games” in 2008 and its sequels in 2009 and 2010, dystopian literature became one of the most popular genres over the course of the following decade. These novels referenced many of the same themes as those discussed in YA literature, but then exaggerated the situations’ stakes to provide 
social and political commentary via metaphor. The best example of this rising 
trend was “Divergent, ” the first book in a trilogy centering on a young girl exposing corruption in an oppressive, faction-based setting. The reason why this trend in literature was so successful in the 2010s was that it spoke to its teenage audience, who were growing increasingly aware of the injustice in the world. As the teens who grew up in this era become adults, hopefully that 
instinct to change the world stays with them. 
—   CHLOE  ESSER,  
A&E Editor
DAISY  SCOTT,   Editor in ChiefBOOKSFILMSSOCIAL MEDIA10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  D E C E M B E R  2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor eeks & Previews PP      
It’s finally December and the holiday 
festivities are upon us! Take a look at 
what San Diego has in store for this winter season. 
Kick-off your holiday season with the 
42nd annual December Nights ! This 
festival on Dec. 6 and 7 turns Balboa Park into a holiday wonderland, complete with light displays, live music and dance performances, great food, and lots of shopping. For two nights only, many 
museums, like the Fleet Science Center, the Museum of Art, and the Museum of Man, have free admission from 5 p.m.-9 p.m. Y ou don’t want to miss this San Diego classic! 
Nothing brings the community 
together like a tree lighting ceremony. Head to Little Italy on Dec. 7 for the Tree Lighting and Christmas Village ! 
While the permanent tree in Piazza della Famiglia is always the main event, this year, Little Italy will also be unveiling a new multicolored tree designed by artist Joshua Hubert in Piazza Basilone. Visitors can also stroll through the Christmas Village, where local vendors will be selling the perfect gifts for family 
and friends. 
Santa is making a stop in our very 
own city for the La Jolla Christmas 
Parade and Holiday Festival  on Dec. 
8 from 1:30 p.m. to 5 pm. The parade 
will feature floats, marching bands, community groups, drill teams, vintage vehicles, horses, and — apparently — a camel. This year’s theme is “Christmas On The Moon” to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the moon landing, and a NASA astronaut, Robert Shane Kimbrough, will be in attendance! The 47th annual San Diego Bay 
Parade of Lights  will take place on 
Dec. 8 and Dec. 15! More than 80 boats will parade across the Embarcadero to Coronado, showing off their festive decorations. The rumored best viewing locations are the north and south ends of the Embarcadero, the pathway along Coronado, the park behind Seaport Village, Harbor Island, Shelter Island and the pier at Cesar Chavez Park. 
What if Christmas, perhaps, means a 
little bit more? Watch How the Grinch 
Stole Christmas at the Old Globe, a show 
based on the popular Dr. Seuss story. It runs until Dec. 29 and tickets start at $39. 
On Dec. 14, there will also be a sensory-
friendly performance for children with special needs. 
Skating by the Sea  is back! Until Jan. 
5, Hotel Del Coronado will feature their signature beachfront ice rink that is the epitome of winter in San Diego. New this year is “Frostbite, ” where visitors are able to reserve rink side lounges around a fire pit and can enjoy snacks and drinks. Tickets are a bit pricey at $30 per person online or $35 per person at the rink, but part of the benefits will go to Make-A-Wish San Diego. 
Experience the Christmas spirit 
from the comfort of your own car by driving around the neighborhood to see some brightly decorated houses. Here are a few locations that are well-known: Candy Cane Lane in Poway (Hickory Court), Christmas Card Lane in Rancho Penasquitos (Ellingham Street and Oviedo Street), and Garrison Street in Point Loma. For a truly special show, visit Belardo Lights in Tierrasanta at 5306 Belardo Drive, tune your radio to FM 106.1, and enjoy the light display by the Schimka family! Both sons were diagnosed with autism when they were 
young, and the lights began in 2006 after 
the older son, Brandon, became interested in holiday lights and decorations. Belardo Lights has now become a way to raise money for the Stein Education Center, which helps families and children with autism and other disabilities. 
 
DecemberLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
How to Survive Without Your Laptop
by Zoe Wong, Contributing Lifestyle Writer
It is common knowledge that 
a laptop is essential in a college 
student’s life because it allows busy students to work anywhere and at any time — which, in theory, allows for productive time to be maximized. As such, one of the greatest misfortunes a 
college student can experience is 
having their laptop stop working unannounced because then it becomes difficult to get work done.
Recently, my personal laptop 
not only abruptly crashed, but was unable to be recovered in time for me to finish important assignments. At the earliest, it would take three whole days for 
my laptop to be fixed. In a quarter-
system college, that’s almost the equivalent of missing a whole week’s worth of materials. I was 
desperate but not enough to buy 
expedited shipping at 25 percent of the actual part that needed to be fixed. I knew that I would have to seek alternative paths to survive in the meantime. Weirdly enough, even after my laptop was fixed, I kept some of the temporary lifestyle changes I was forced to make sans-laptop simply because I felt that it was healthier and an even more productive way of living.
Tip #1: Work Online
When I was in seventh grade, 
everyone in my grade was required to enter the district Science Fair. Accompanying the giant display we had to make for our projects, we were also required to type up a report. I don’t remember the exact length requirements anymore, but I recall the report being an emotional drudgery because it was considered a long report to me then. I had been working on that report and was just about done when the 
unspeakable happened: the laptop 
I was working on crashed. The worst part was that I never saved the document so I had to re-type the entire lengthy document as best as I could from memory. It was traumatic, but from that day onwards, I’ve developed the habit of saving and saving often.  
Although technically not 
manually saved, since high school, 
I’ve chosen to work on Google 
Docs as much as possible because it automatically syncs and saves your work online. On the night 
that my laptop gave up, my habit 
would be my number one saving grace because although I was without a laptop and only half-finished with my assignment, I knew it wasn’t the end of the world. My laptop has value mostly because it has all of my documents on it; however, if my documents can also be accessed online through any computer, any computer can act like my laptop. Essentially, working online makes me less dependent on my laptop. That being said, I still needed a 
computer, which brings me to my 
next point.
Tip #2: Know Y our Computer 
Options
During this crisis, I acquired so much knowledge about the on-campus technology available to students, particularly about the computer labs that are open late and the kinds of technology you can rent. While I could assure that my work would be saved and could be assessed from anywhere, I needed to figure out exactly where and how I would access said work.
One of the first options I 
considered was checking out a laptop from the Biomedical Library. For those who aren’t aware, the Biomedical Library has Lenovo laptops that students can 
check-out for 24 hours. Although 
this could be a convenient option to replace my laptop, I did not go through with it simply because the Biomedical Library is really out of the way for a day-to-day commitment. As such, I continued to search for alternatives.
My solution of choice was 
to stay late at a computer lab that wasn’t crowded like Geisel’s. The places of particular interest were the Biomedical Library, open Monday to Thursday until midnight; Digital Playroom in Pepper Canyon Hall, open 24 hours; Price Center Floor 1, open weekdays 24 hours; Roger Revelle College Commuter Lounge, open weekdays 24 hours, and the Sixth Commuter Lounge, open 24 hours.
Tip #3: Manage Y our Time
Generally, I prefer to work in 
the comfort of my own apartment because I can work at my own pace. Since I had to work using 
the computers on campus, I could 
no longer work at a loose pace because the longer I took to work on an assignment, the longer I would have to stay at school. Further, because I take the bus to commute home, my time is limited until the last bus runs. As such, I needed to strategize when and for how long I would stay at the computer lab. Essentially, I needed to up my time-management game and was forced to value the time I actually had with a computer. It wouldn’t be wrong to say that I was extremely productive as a result.
Although I am fortunate that it 
was brief, the time spent without a laptop taught me to re-evaluate how I spend my time. I still spend a significant chunk of my day on my laptop but I am proud to say that I’ve taken strides to not be so dependent on it and I feel oddly liberated. It may sound like an unappetizing and overly simplistic 
way of thinking, but I challenge 
you to try living without your laptop for a day. It is definitely do-able and I guarantee that it will reveal things about your time habits that may not have been apparent.
ILLUSTRATION BY JOÃO FAZENDA, NEW YORK TIMESILLUSTRATION BY JOÃO FAZENDA, NEW YORK TIMES12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  D E C E M B E R  2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
ASCE PRESENTS:
A CONCERT BEYOND
registration opens January - beyondthehorizon.ucsd.edu
1.24.202 0  |  RIMA C ARE NA
2020 is fast approaching, meaning that 
we’re about to leave the 2010s behind. Before 
we step into the new year, let’s take a look 
back at the most iconic moments and trends 
of the past decade. 
Instagrammable
Instagram entered our lives at the very 
beginning of the decade, in 2010. While 
once a cute photo-sharing platform that 
encouraged the use of in-app filters and 
posting moments for friends and family, it 
has morphed into a social media behemoth 
that has changed the way we advertise, market, and consume. Whether you like it or not, Instagram has changed the way we think 
about influence and presenting ourselves.
It’s Friday, Friday
Rebecca Black’s hit song became everyone’s 
favorite (or least favorite?) earworm back in 2011. With lyrics like “gotta have my bowl, 
gotta have cereal, ” and “party and party and yeah, fun fun fun fun, ” it definitely wasn’t the 
best-written song, but we can’t deny we still 
know all the words. 
She Came In Like a Wrecking Ball
Miley Cyrus debuted her infamous 
“Wrecking Ball” music video back in 2013. For those of us that don’t remember, it 
featured a scantily-clad Cyrus swinging on 
an actual wrecking ball, licking a hammer, 
and breaking things. As her first foray into 
more “adult music” after leading her double 
life as Hannah Montana for many years, 
it’s safe to say that many were shocked by 
the video’s release. Cyrus later admitted, in 
2017, that she regretted the song and video — “Swinging around naked on a wrecking ball lives forever, ” she joked on the Zach Sang 
Show. Miley, it sure does. 
The Podcast Life
While podcasts have existed for a while, they shot up in popularity in 2014 with the 
release of Serial, an investigative journalism 
podcast that explores a nonfiction story over 
several episodes. As technology continues 
to improve and the barriers for making 
and listening to podcasts decrease, people 
walking around with headphones may only be listening to music. Podcasts have become 
a part of daily life. 
Blue and Black vs. White and Gold
Are those color combinations enough 
to trigger you? In 2015, the internet got 
into a heated debate over the colors of “the dress” after the photo was posted on Tumblr. While it was later confirmed to be black and 
blue, one explanation for why some people 
perceived it as white and gold was due to the brain’s judgment of the dress’s light source. 
Not Throwing Away His Shot
In 2015, Hamilton turned musical-haters 
into believers. Created by Lin-Manuel Miranda, who has since become a household 
name, the show about the United States first 
treasury secretary featured spunky hip-hop 
beats and raw rap battles previously unseen 
on Broadway. It was also notably known for 
its blind casting — the original cast featured 
Hispanic, black, and Asian-American actors 
as the leads. 
Gotta Catch Them All 
If you didn’t spend the summer of 2016 
playing Pokemon Go, were you really living? The augmented reality game took the world 
by storm when it was released, with people 
running around the streets in search of 
Slyducks and Koffings alike. While we were still all glued to our phones, at least it got us out of the house for once. 
#OscarsNotSoWhite? 
Representation in media was an issue 
that really came to light in the 2010s. The nominees for the 2015 and 2016 Oscars were all white, sparking outrage across Twitter. The 
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences 
since has tried to diversify by increasing their amounts of racial minority and female members, and artists of color and films with 
diverse storylines, like “Moonlight, ” “Black 
Panther, ” and “Roma, ” got Oscar attention. 
More diverse perspectives and experiences can now be found in other areas of media 
— take the successes of Crazy Rich Asians, 
Fresh Off The Boat, Jane the Virgin, or 
Black-ish. 
#MeToo
“If you’ve been sexually harassed or 
assaulted write ‘me too’ as a reply to this tweet, ” actress Alyssa Milano tweeted in 
2017, only a few days after The New Y ork 
Times expose on Harvey Weinstein. Many 
women, including a number of high-profile 
celebrities, responded to Milano’s tweet, 
setting the movement into full force. #MeToo 
originated from Tarana Burke on Myspace 
almost ten years earlier, in 2006, and the 
idea was to break the silence on sexual 
abuse, display the magnitude of the issue, and empower women through strength in numbers. 
Beychella Makes a Statement
In 2018, Beyonce headlined iconic music 
festival Coachella, being the first African-
American woman to do so. Her performance, 
dubbed “Beychella, ” was inspired by the 
culture of historically black colleges, universities and black feminism, and was 
regarded as historic by fans and critics alike. 
If you haven’t checked out “Homecoming, ” 
her concert film about the experience, make 
sure to do so. 
I Got The Horses In The Back
In 2018, Lil Nas X independently released 
“Old Town Road, ” a song in the new genre 
of country rap. After gaining popularity, it 
was re-released by Columbia Records in 
2019, and a remix with Billy Ray Cyrus soon 
followed. The song held the number one spot 
on the Billboard charts for a record-breaking 
nineteen weeks, proving that Lil Nas’ bop 
about taking his horse to the old town road 
was here to stay.
A Look Through the Decade
by Lifestyle EditorsPHOTO COURTESY OF VEVOPHOTO COURTESY OF VEVOCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
AAKASH ODEDRA COMPANYDECEMBER 3 • 8pm
Jewish Community Center
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org2pm
WEEK 10 INNER ZEN - MARSHALL 
FIELD
Does Week 10 have you feeling at an all time low? 
Are you sick of eating instant noodles every 
meal? Thurgood Marshall College Student 
Council (TMCSC) is excited to present Week 10 Inner Zen!!! Don't be afraid to make happy little accidents and PAINT your heart out! Craft yourself a BRACELET! Enjoy FREE SAMBUSAS catered from Red Sambusas! Take care of your skin and grab a free FACE MASK! Create a goody bag containing GREEN or BLACK TEA BAGS, STICKERS, and MOTIVATIONAL NOTES for a friend or yourself!!! Enter a Giveaway with destressing prizes including a light therapy lamp, coloring book with pencils, and an aromatherapy plushie! Be sure to practice self-care going into Finals Week! Good luck and take care! Contact: 
e3wang@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
DAUGHTERS OF TRITON HOLIDAY 
CONCERT: SING IN THE NEW YEAR! - 
STUDENT SERVICES CENTER MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
Join Daughters of Triton, UCSD's premier 
female-identifying a cappella group, as we celebrate the holidays and bring in the new year! You won't want to miss our first concert of the year! Come de-stress during Week 10 by listening these some sweet bops. Free admission and first 100 attendees will receive a free Sprinkles cupcake too! See you there! For more information: dots.ucsd.edu Contact: the.dots@gmail.com
8pm
AAKASH ODEDRA COMPANY - 
DAVID AND DOROTHEA GARFIELD THEATRE AT THE LAWRENCE 
FAMILY JEWISH COMMUNITY 
CENTER
slipping between styles, effortlessly multilingual. 
-The New York Times One of the most exciting young contemporary dancers and choreographers in the UK, the simply breathtaking (Globe and Mail) Aakash Odedra takes the stage in the captivating solo Rising with choreography from acclaimed international artists Akram Khan, Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, Russell Maliphant, and Odedra himself. In Rising, Odedra draws on his background in the classical Indian dance disciplines of Kathak and Bharatanatyam while remaining intrinsically contemporary in style and concept. Exploring different processes and aesthetics in the pieces created for Rising, Odedra highlights different aspects of himself to create a new personal language: lyrical and graceful, brutal and raw, edgy, and animalistic. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu !"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about our experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact: Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or catthompson@ucsd.edu Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408
7:30pm
ELEKTRA - SHANK THEATRE
Come one, Come all! Step right up to see Elektra by Sophocles in a new, musical translation by Timberlake Wertenbaker. Elektra finds herself in an endless circus orchestrated by her fathers murderers: her mother, The Queen, and her mothers lover who masquerades as The New King. Elektra cannot take part in the charade of happiness and rages against the court, waiting for her exiled brother, Orestes to return and avenge their father. Through music, movement, and the female voice, Elektra takes us inside the toxic cycles of violence that plagued the Ancient Greeks and continue as national spectacle today.
Contact: mmaltby@ucsd.edu 858-534-3791
Website: 
http://theatre.ucsd.edu/season/Elektra/index.htmTUE12.03
THU12.05MON12.02
10am
DESTRESS MONDAY - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
DeStress Mondays....ahhh, Mondays.... 
Mondays can be stressful, so start your week 
on a high note with FREE tea and snacks! 
Come destress with us EVERY MONDAY this 
fall quarter! Time: 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM 
Location: Price Center Commuter Lounge FREE 
for UCSD Students w/ ID
12pm
THE SRC'S 10TH ANNIVERSARY - 
SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE 
CENTER
Join UC San Diego Sustainability and the 
Student Sustainability Collective to help us 
celebrate 10 years dedicated to sustainability 
here at UC San Diego. There will be an open 
house, sweet treats, snacks and door 
prizes!Contact: chdonald@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
BSU'S ANNUAL 2019 KWANZAA 
EVENT - EAST BALLROOM, PRICE 
CENTER
Kwanzaa is a very important holiday that 
celebrates African heritage in relation to 
African American history. Traditionally, it is 
celebrated through feasts, gift-giving, 
gathering as a community and honoring our 
ancestors. For that reason. Kwanzaa is an 
annual event that the Black Student Union 
holds for its general body members. This is a 
community building event that attempts to 
educate students on black history and the 
principles of Kwanzaa and how to strengthen 
their connection to their black heritage. 
Contact: k2howard@ucsd.eduWED12.04
8am
APPLE 1 DAY SALE: PAY NO 
SALES TAX - UCSD BOOKSTORE
ONE DAY SALE ON APPLE PRODUCTS PAY NO 
SALES TAX on all Mac, iPad Pro & Watch models Contact: boss@ucsd.edu 
858-534-4291
2pm
SRC SEMINAR SERIES: WHAT IS 
RECYCLABLE ON CAMPUS? - 
SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE CENTER
Stop by the SRC on Dec 4th from 2 - 3 PM to 
hear from Bob Hill, the Director of Recycling ad EDCO, the company which recycles the 
waste collected from our campus, as he goes 
into detail on what can and cannot be 
recycled here at UC San Diego. Contact: chdonald@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/11446081
12396758/
6pm
NANCY LUPO GUEST LECTURE - 
VAF 306 PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Intricate networks of materials, objects, and 
spaces characterize Nancy Lupos complex installations. Her multisensorial and affective work often contains organic elements, such as quinoa, foil-covered chocolates, and fruit, and banal items, including dental floss, dog bowls, and folding chairs, in various states of rot or use. Her work addresses the ways in which we move through spaces, as if following latent scripts that punctuate and dictate the rituals and rhythms that shape our daily lives. In many cases, Lupo has installed works outside of the gallery or museum, in city parks, at the beach, on the telephone, and in other semi-private and public spaces. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu 858-822-7755 Website: http://visarts.ucsd.edu/news-events/20191204_nancylupo.html
7:30pm
RELAXATION SKILLS - CAPS 
CENTRAL OFFICE, 190 
GALBRAITH HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of 
basic relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
7:30pm
ELEKTRA - SHANK THEATRE
Come one, Come all! Step right up to see Elektra by Sophocles in a new, musical translation by Timberlake Wertenbaker. Elektra finds herself in an endless circus orchestrated by her fathers murderers: her mother, The Queen, and her mothers lover who masquerades as The New King. Elektra cannot take part in the charade of happiness and rages against the court, waiting for her exiled brother, Orestes to return and avenge their father. FRI12.06
7:30pm
ELEKTRA - SHANK THEATRE
Come one, Come all! Step right up to see 
Elektra by Sophocles in a new, musical translation by Timberlake Wertenbaker. Elektra finds herself in an endless circus orchestrated by her fathers murderers: her mother, The Queen, and her mothers lover who masquerades as The New King. Elektra cannot take part in the charade of happiness and rages against the court, waiting for her exiled brother, Orestes to return and avenge their father.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
DEC 2 - DEC 8
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CHRISTMAS TIMECLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Soothing salve
5. Metamorphic stage10. Sportscast tidbit
14. Vast expanse
15. Circa
16. He opposed Caesar17. Start of a warning to couch potatoes19. New Orleans veggie
20. Piquance
21. Beatnik growths, perhaps
23. Smokey Bear’s worry26. First king of Israel27. Flight has-been, briefly
28. Warning (Part 2)
32. Busy activity
33. Twain portrayer Holbrook34. It may have a wordy welcome35. Longings
37. Warning (Part 3)
40. One way to lose a sunburn
43. Poetic time of day45. Org. based in McLean, Va.46. She was Linda in ‘’Singapore’’47. Warning (Part 4)53. Mauna ___54. Quarter deck?55. With cunning56. Word with days or try58. Boat balancer60. 1952 Winter Olympics site61. End of the warning66. Prexy’s associate67. They may reach a bit68. Dopey dog69. Outer limits70. Ugly weather71. Bright night lightDOWN
1. It’s for swingers2. Flame proof?3. Bad thing to get caught in
4. Passover fare
5. Vietnam War target
6. Border on7. Loot8. Crude
9. Gave the stove a rest
10. Sir William Wallace, for one
11. Chills12. Like Newton’s bodies, sometimes13. Pleasantly warm
18. Carson City neighbor
22. Prof’s visitor, maybe
23. Out24. Go for a spin25. Refused to answer
26. Ask earnestly
29. Upsilon follower
30. ___ de deux31. Preschool activity36. Baltic or Irish38. McCourt memoir39. Not look too lively41. Stuntman Knievel42. Dark one of Shakespeare’s sonnets44. The Big Board, initially47. Small recess48. Uncinch49. Dextrose and fructose50. Pump option51. Like yard sale items52. Obtained dishonorably57. Hacks off, as tree limbs58. ‘’Citizen ___’’59. Once, once62. Hurry63. Exalted verse64. Brazilian vacation destination, informally65. This guy’s a real dollBIKES
2010-700c Speicialized Transition 
Triahlon Bike - This bike was used for one month in total and in one Triathlon. 
My spouse broke her foot at the time 
and lost interest in the sport. The bike has been stored in my garage since that 
time. We are cleaning up and decided to 
sell it. I can take any images and gather 
any data available on the bike. If you are 
local, you can come ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Nirve 20” bmx bike - Up for sale is a 
rebuilt and very clean 20” Nirve bmx 
bike.The bicycle has been completely 
rebuilt with fresh Maxima grease,with 
some upgraded parts.Such as the new 
Wellgo chrome pedals, new brake 
cable,new grips, chain tension-er, new 
chain, etc.This bike is best suited  ….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
57cm Giant ‘RS940’ 12 speed road bike 
- Giant RS940, size 57 cm (c-c) - large. 
Lightweight 4130 Cr-Mo triple butted 
frame and fork. All original Japanese 
made Shimano twelve speed indexed 
gearing, caliper brakes, 700 c Araya 
wheels, and SR pedals with Giant clips 
and  ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
PART-TIME JOBS
After School Helper - Looking for some -
one who can help me with picking my 12- year old son up from school and 
taking him to activities. I need help with driving and helping him start home -
work. Dinner prep is helpful but not 
required. Need to own a car and be ok 
with a dog. Pay would be somewhere 
between ….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Seeking nanny to help with twin babies 
- Hi there! Located in Mission Valley, we 
are looking for an experienced, kind, 
and attentive nanny for our 4 month 
old twin babies 3-4 days/week, 4-6 hrs/
day (roughly around 10AM-4PM). Days can be flexible  ….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationHBM Supply  - Part-time, entry level 
workers needed for growing compa -
ny in Sorrento Valley. $13-$16/hour. 
Monday through Friday flexible hours 
between 8-12 am or 1-5 pm. Training provided in production, assembly work, 
packaging….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
CARS
2016 Toyota Tacoma - 2016 Toyota 
Tacoma, 4D Double Cab, Recent Arrival! 
Clean CARFAX. TRD Sport RWD six 
Gear Automatic V6 19/24 City/Highway 
MILES-PER-GALLON. As your premier Pre-owned car dealer in San Diego County, Courtesy Chevrolet has a large 
inventory of pre-owned cars, trucks, and 
SUVs. With special finance rates and 
finance plans available, we make every effort to get customers ….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information2014 MINI Hardtop Cooper Cooper 2dr 
Hatchback - MINI Certified 1 owner 
with a clean Carfax. This new body 
style Cooper is nicely equipped with features such as Panoramic Moonroof, sixteen Victory Spoke Black Alloy rims, 
Automatic Climate Control, Bluetooth 
and USB connection, Dynamic Cruise Control, Electronic Stability Control  ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2013 Volkswagen Passat SE PZEV SE 
PZEV 4dr Sedan 6A  - Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! 
Our set prices mean youll never have 
to haggle and you can concentrate on 
finding the right car for you. We stand 
behind each and every pre-owned 
car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back 
Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty 
….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information 
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , DECEMBER 2, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
FALL 2019
to.ucsd.edu
TRITON OUTFITTERS LA JOLLA DREAMS
SHOP NOW • to.ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Alaska Anchorage  - 
NCAA West Regional vs Chico State vs. Chico StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball5PM
5:30PM
8PM12/5
12/5
12/5
As we move from 2019 into 
2020, the end of the decade will 
bring UC San Diego fully into NCAA Division-I Athletics. This 
is the final year where there will 
be at least one UCSD sports team in Division II. 
With the move on the horizon, 
the university has already begun to position itself as a Division I-level program. This season, 
UCSD women’s volleyball, women’s basketball, and men’s 
basketball home games have 
been broadcast on ESPN3 thanks to growing broadcasting facilities in RIMAC Arena. 
As the university’s athletics 
programs continue to become more of an integral piece of the NCAA, so to will the power of these programs in general. As a part of the top division of 
competition, the student-athletes 
will be a part of the California laws to pay NCAA athletes in a different way; UCSD will finally 
be on equal footing with San Diego State University and the University of San Diego in terms of NCAA status. 
Ultimately, this sort of 
elevation will likely make UCSD a more desirable location for local high school athletes and for local sports fans, whose options for local collegiate sports have been closer to Old Town and downtown San Diego instead of up north in La Jolla. 
With all of these potential 
added fans, recruiting points, and revenue streams, UCSD Athletics will be a more powerful piece of the university as a whole. This presents responsibilities that 
I believe the school must fully address in order to make this new piece of the school’s allure something that impacts the 
entire student body positively. 
In this vein, there will also be potential problems with going into Division I that both students and the university should be 
aware of. 
In terms of responsibilities, 
UCSD needs to make sure that 
with a newly-minted athletics program that spending on this program does not solely bene fit 
student-athletes, coaches, and other sta ff connected 
directly to the sports teams 
themselves. Students interested 
in communication, videography, and other sorts of sports media production should be emphasized in the hiring process, which already is a major positive going on within the program today. 
Beyond the media side of 
the move into Div. I (which I am partial to of course), the university needs to be sure that any facility and quality of campus life improvements that student-athletes receive can be, at least for the most part, a shared bene fit. 
Obviously, adding Division-I athletics means that students can be more entertained by the competitions UCSD student-athletes are engaging in. But outside of a better fan experience students will likely receive, they also should be able to utilize any new gyms sports fields and/
or courts the university creates to attract more Division-I-
caliber athletes. Any additional 
dietitians, physical trainers, and other satellite sta ff that the 
university pays to help promote athletic success should also be 
able to be used by everyday 
students. This serves both to 
help these sta ff understand the 
student-athletes as students first 
and also to provide increased services to non-athlete students on campus. 
Outside of these 
responsibilities, there are certain problems that Division-I 
universities can face as a result 
of increased media exposure that comes with athletics. The 
prevalence of scandals involving both major and minor college sports, admissions, and the NCAA has been demonstrated just this year. Admissions and athletics should be tightly knit and responsive to one another, even as athletics takes steps towards becoming even more important at UCSD. 
Along with corruption threats 
increasing is increased media exposure. Division-I programs have more media coverage than Division-II programs. This will be great for coaches and athletes looking to move into the professional ranks, but it will also provide a growing platform where UCSD student-athletes and student-fans will be shown to a large, potentially national audience. This, again, 
could be bene ficial, as it could 
inspire students to apply here and student-athletes to want to play here. But on the flip side, 
it could also lead to protest and spectacles involving the media 
exposure surrounding sports to 
bleed into other issues, such as the climate injustice protest that took place on the field at Harvard 
Yard  du r i ng  t he  Har v ard - Ya l e football game. 
The university needs to be 
sure to handle any of these sorts of outcomes with respect for student rights and quality of 
experience over the monetary 
gains of athletics, for the good of the student-athletes, fans, and the rest.
Triton 
Timeout
Problems and 
responsibilities 
that come with a 
move into 
Division IWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduThe UC San Diego Tritons 
are ending the 2010s decade 
with one of their most solid in 
university history. UCSD student-athletes and coaches provided 
thousands of fans with exciting 
and memorable moments from 2010 to 2019, including So ftball’s 
2011 NCAA Division-II National 
Championship and the runner-up 
finish in the Lear field Directors’ 
Cup for the 2018-19 season. 
UCSD made the switch into 
Division II from Division III in the fall quarter of 2000 and has 
become one of the powerhouses 
of the Division and the California Collegiate Athletic Association conference that most of the Triton teams are a part of. 
In this end of the decade poster, 
the focus is on both players and coaches. Starting on the left, men’s 
water polo coach Denny Harper 
is featured. Harper is currently in his 40th season at UCSD, where he also created and coached the 
women’s water polo team until 
1999. During the 2010s decade, Harper continued his early 2000s 
dominance, with four top-fi ve 
finishes in the NCAA tournament 
while also eclipsing the 600-wins 
plateau for his career. Since 2010, 
Harper has won six Western Water Polo Association Coach of the Y ear awards. 
Beneath Harper on the poster 
is basketball standout, Chris Hansen. Hansen was named the CCAA Player of the Y ear for the 
2018-19 season and in the 2019-
20 season became the UCSD Division-II era’s all-time leading rebounder. The 6-foot-7-inch 
redshirt senior earned CCAA Freshman of the Y ear honors back in 2015-16, helping his team to the 
NCAA Division-II West Regional 
finals. 
To the right of Hansen is UCSD 
softball standout Kris Lesovsky, 
who spent four seasons as a Triton a fter transferring out of Florida Tech. From 2009 to 2012, Lesovsky began the decade with 
a bang for the so ftball program. 
For all four of her seasons as a 
Triton, she earned UCSD Athlete 
of the Y ear honors, as she did not 
miss a single game for UCSD and in 2011 she did not make a single error. Lesovsky finished her Triton 
career first in university history in 
batting average (.386), first in runs 
scored (183), first in runs batted in 
(130) and first in walks (146). 
To her right is her head coach, 
Patti Gerckens. Gerckens spanned 
far more than just the last decade 
at the helm for the UCSD so ftball 
program, as 2020 will mark her 28th season as head coach. Gerckens has eclipsed the 600-
win plateau and won the entire 
UCSD Athletics program their only NCAA Division-II National 
Championship of the decade in 
2011, while nearly going back-to-back in 2012. In the record-breaking 2011 season, Gerckens 
led her squad to a 45-win season 
(the best in school history) to go along with a perfect 9–0 record 
in the postseason, which saw her 
Tritons usurp the No. 1 seed in the NCAA Division-II tournament to 
take home the title. ART BY ANTHONY TRAN AND ALEX LIANGART BY ANTHONY TRAN AND ALEX LIANG