VOLUME 53, ISSUE ??  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 7, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC San Diego students Jose 
Lumbreras and Albert Nava will 
start a chapter of Underground 
Scholars at UCSD in Fall 2019. The organization is the first of its 
kind to offer on-campus support 
for students affected by the U.S. system of incarceration.
Underground Scholars is an organization first started 
by students at UC Berkeley to 
provide support for previously incarcerated students and 
system-impacted students who 
have relatives in prison. The organization aims to “increase access to higher education” as 
well as to support members on 
university campuses. 
Albert Nava, one of the starters 
for Underground Scholars at UCSD, is now a graduate student 
majoring in ethnic studies. 
He reached out to Berkeley Underground Scholars two 
months ago, after seeing their 
page on Facebook.
Nava was previously 
imprisoned for 17 years for a 
felony charge. After his release 
from prison in 2013, Nava A UC San Diego student-made petition on change.org has garnered attention to 
bring back Hydro Flasks to the Housing 
Dining Hospitality on-campus markets. The 
petition entitled “Bring back Hydroflasks at 
UCSD markets” was created on Sept. 26 and 
had reached 134 signatures in 7 days. Hydro Flasks were discontinued in the markets by the start of Fall Quarter 2019. 
The petition was created by EarlWarren 
College sophomore Dominick Lee, who feels the Hydro Flasks served as a symbol of UCSD.
“These HydroFlasks became a staple for all 
UCSD students and reflected pride and school spirit with each and every fill, ” Lee wrote on the 
petition’s description. “Our mission it to unite 
our campus to bring back the symbol of UCSD that has become so iconic. ”
Lee posted the petition to a UCSD page 
on Reddit, with his roommate, Earl Warren College sophomore Garrett Luu, posting the 
petition onto the Facebook Page for UCSD 
Class of 2022. 
Students in the petition’s comment section 
discussed how the Hydro Flasks were a way to use extra Dining Dollars before they became lost after the deadline created by HDH last 
spring. Casey Chang, one of the signers of the 
petitions, wrote, “I have extra dining dollars and I was counting on hydros being there fall quarter when I came back. ” 
Another signer of the petition named Alexis 
Tomita commented on the accessibility of the Hydro Flask brand.
“WE LOVE HYDROFLASKS! Made a great 
gifts, and allowed those who couldn’t afford one have the opportunity to have one, ” Tomita 
commented. “Ucsd helped those in need, since 
we invested so much in their university, we should be able to purchase better quality items. ” 
Lee also mentioned the popular practice of 
using extra dining dollars to buy and resell Hydro Flasks.
“[Fifty/Fifty] is a drop in quality so it makes 
it significantly harder to resell because it’s not a Hydro Flask brand … and it’s cheaper so you have to buy more of them to make up for your dining dollars, ” Lee stated.
While Hydro Flasks are no longer sold at 
the markets, there is the option to purchase a similar product, the Fifty/Fifty bottle, which is 
also designed to keep beverages hot or cold for 
a long period of time. 
One review listed on the Fifty/Fifty website 
under the name Dethean F. states, “Fifty/Fifty Bottles are amazing! If you’re looking for a hot/cold thermos bottle, this is the real deal … best 
bottle on the market. Stainless steel, durable 
construction and a variety of colors, sizes, and cap styles … Kept my ice more than 24hrs later. ”
UCSD HDH Communications Officer Kat 
Marin states that the bottles are cheaper than Hydro Flasks. “HDH shifted to a comparable 
reusable beverage container that would provide 
a lower-cost option for the campus community, ” Marin told the UCSD Guardian. “We now 
offer a variety of Fifty/Fifty bottles at all of 
our markets, and student response has been positive. ”
A wide-mouthed 40 oz. Fifty/Fifty bottle is 
listed as $34.99 on their website, and a similar Hydro Flask is listed as $42.99 on the Hydro Flask website.  Like the Hydro Flask brand, 
Fifty/Fifty is sold in various sizes and colors. 
While the Hydro Flask brand is more 
expensive, Lee mentions how it was one of the only items that did not have elevated prices in 
the markets. UC President Files 
Brief  in Support of  
DACA
Napolitano, who authorized the program in 
2012, hopes the lawsuit will protect the over 700,000 DACA recipients in the country. 
CAMPUS
Students Form Club to Help Others Impacted by Incarceration
Students stand in solidarity with the ongoing protests in Hong Kong  // Photo by Lauren McGeeThe University of California 
Office of the President announced 
that it filed a brief with the 
Supreme Court challenging President Donald Trump’s 
decision to rescind the Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Friday, Sept. 27. The brief alleges that the Trump 
administration acted “illegally” by 
stopping the program “without offering any valid justification for 
doing so.”
“Today, the University of 
California continued our fight to protect the nearly 700,000 
Dreamers here in the United States and in our community who are DACA recipients,” the statement 
reads. “UC’s DACA students are 
studying to be the next generation of teachers, doctors, engineers, 
and other professions that make 
life better for everyone.”
The statement goes on to 
reiterate the UCOP’s belief that 
the Trump administration acted 
illegally, citing rulings from five federal courts who noted 
the decision to be “arbitrary 
and capricious, and therefore 
unlawful.” 
UCOP also applauded its 
efforts to “provide a safe and 
supportive environment for [its] 
DACA students,” and pledging to 
continue to do so.
President Barack Obama 
created the program by an executive memorandum in 2012. Under the policy, certain undocumented individuals who 
were brought to the United States 
as children could be eligible for deferred action from deportation 
and given work permits. UC 
President Janet Napolitano authorized DACA while serving 
as Secretary of Homeland Security 
under the Obama Administration in 2012.
According to the Public Policy 
Institute of California, more than 750,000 people are in the program as of 2017. More than 
200,000 of these individuals live 
in California.
President Trump formally 
announced his plan to phase out 
the program back in September 
2017. The Trump administration argued that DACA was an 
example of executive overreach 
by the previous administration, although they expressed hope that 
the program could be preserved 
through comprehensive immigration legislation. 
“I do not favor punishing 
children, most of whom are now adults, for the actions of their parents,” Trump said in a 
statement at the time. “But we 
must also recognize that we are a nation of opportunity because we By  Madeline Leon   
Senior Staff WriterACTIVISM
Petition for Hydroflasks at HDH Markets Gains TractionUC SYSTEM
The organization, which was originally created at UC Berkeley, will provide support for both 
previously incarcerated students and ystem-impacted students once meetings commence in October.
By Vivian Yang
Staff WriterBy Troy Tuquero
Senior Staff Writer
See SCHOLARS,  page 2See DACA,  page 2See HYDROFLASK,  page 3PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
“The strongest aspect of 
the musical is the singing 
capabilities of the cast. 
Lila Coogan (Anastasia), 
sings with the clarity of 
a Disney princess, and 
Stephen Bower’s rendition 
of Dmitry showcases his 
incredible vocal range. ”
THE  GAP  PROGRAM
AUTUMN  MOODSnon-resident  students
getting  in  the  spiritFeatures,  Page   6
LIFESTYLE ,   Page  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"A transfer resource 
center would also 
supply long term 
benefits; the space 
and resources from 
a transfer resource 
center would increase 
transfer students’ ability 
to impact the decisions 
that affect transfers on 
campus."MONDAY
 H 71 L 62
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 61
TUESDAY
H 72 L 59
THURSDAY
H 74 L 61
LSAT.................................3
TORONTO FILM FEST.....8
THE TESTAMENTS..........9
WHERE TO READ..........10
“SOCIALLY DEAD”........11Geena Younger
Transfer Resource Center
 PAGE 4MUSICAL REVIEW:
ANASTASIA
A&E, page 8
are a nation of laws.”
Numerous state governments, including 
California, immediately sued the 
administration for its decision on DACA. The UC system under President Napolitano 
filed a separate lawsuit three days after 
President Trump’s announcement, denouncing the recission as “wrongly and unconstitutionally violating the rights of 
the university and its students.”
In January 2018 the United States 
District Court for the Northern District of California halted the program rollback and 
ordered the federal government to allow recipients to renew their applications. 
Congress was unable to pass a bill to 
protect the program as part of a wider immigration deal before the March 2018 deadline that President Trump’s 
administration had previously set. 
The UCSD Guardian was unable 
to find DACA students who would be willing to comment on the UC system’s 
recent statement due to potential safety concerns and the sensitive nature of their immigration status.
Associate Vice President of Equity, 
Diversity, and Inclusion Noah Palafox, as well as staff at the Undocumented Student 
Services Center, declined to comment on 
this issue.
The Supreme Court is expected to 
hear arguments on whether the Trump administration acted lawfully in the termination of the program in the case, Department of Homeland Security v. 
Regents of the University of California, 
in November of this year. Undocumented students at UCSD are encouraged to visit 
UC resources and consult with educational 
materials from the National Immigration Law Center and Educators for Fair Consideration to learn more.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Zoo Wee Mama.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Grace Lee
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Troy Tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.eduThe case, which has garnered significant national attention, will be heard by the Supreme Court in November 2019
▶ DACA , from page 1
attended the San Diego City 
College under the inspiration 
of his two sisters who had 
both graduated from college. According to Nava, previously 
incarcerated students face 
stress when they first enter college campuses. 
“They have been in prison 
for 10, 15, 20 years, but they are trying to adjust to being here, ” Nava told the UCSD Guardian. 
“I stressed out really hard. I was 
thinking there is no way that I will make it. ”
In order to help its members 
succeed on campus, the organization at large aims to 
provide all sorts of support for their members, such as 
academic advising, reach-
out programs to community 
colleges, and advocacy for policies that increase higher 
education opportunities 
for previously incarcerated students.
Underground Scholars 
at UCSD will hold panels and work with other local organizations that support 
previously incarcerated and 
system-impacted students such as Project Rebound and the 
Transitions Clinic Program 
from other colleges in San Diego. 
There are only five students on the UCSD campus who are either previously incarcerated 
or system-impacted to Nava’s 
knowledge. Beyond those who fall into this narrow category, 
the organization hopes to 
also impact the broader student population by sharing their stories. Nava and his 
co-founders want to encourage 
other students who may be suffering from stress in school 
and to be an inspiration for 
them.
“I want to show them if I can 
do it, they can do it too, ” says Nava.
Since the establishment of the 
organization at UC Berkeley, Underground Scholars has formed across other UC 
campuses,  including UC Los 
Angeles, UC Santa Barbara, and UC Irvine. Nava and 
Lumbreras plan to hold their 
first meeting in early October. 
Underground Scholars provides a number of  services, including advising, outreach programs, and advocacy
▶ SCHOLARS , from page 1THE THIRD FLOOR By Michi Sora
Vivian Y ang  yiyi288@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
@UCSD
TRITONFEST
“The entire idea of Dining Dollars expiring 
— you pay in 1 to 1 and to have [Hydro Flasks] 
just go away as a donation to the school is 
kinda hurtful, ” Lee told the Guardian. “The Hydro Flask became so iconic because it was 
the only thing that wasn’t marked up in the 
markets … it was a good way to exchange 
your dining dollars and get your money back 
from UCSD without it just disappearing. ”
The petition to bring Hydro Flasks back 
to the markets brought more attention than Lee and Luu had expected, and they never 
intended to take it to HDH.
“[Taking the petition to HDH was] in the 
back of our minds, ” Luu said. “We didn’t have any concrete plan. ”
Luu also noted the tone used in both the 
petition and post was meant to be humorous.
“We would all benefit from Hydro Flasks 
being back in the markets,” Luu said. 
“The biggest way to create motion about a 
movement is to use humor … you’re more 
likely to share something that you find humorous in some way. ” 
While Luu and Lee did not plan on talking 
to HDH about bringing Hydro Flasks back to the markets, in a statement to the Guardian, 
Marin noted that HDH would consider 
bringing it back if the petition garnered enough attention. 
“HDH welcomes and values student 
feedback, ” Marin said. “We will present the topic for discussion to the Undergraduate 
Housing Advisory Committee, which has 
student representation from all colleges, if there is significant student interest. ” 
As of date of publication, Lee’s petition has 
154 signatures. HDH has neither confirmed nor denied whether or not Hydro Flasks will be reinstated in any of the on-campus 
markets.The online petition received 154 
signatures in the course of  seven days
▶ HYDROFLASK , 
jacob sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.orgSay no more to pen and 
paper — this fall, the Law 
School Admission Test will now only be offered in a digital format for prospective 
applicants. The LSAT is 
the last of graduate-school entrance exams to undergo this process, as all other national graduate exams have been digitized for several years. 
The digital LSAT was first 
launched during the July 15 test administration, with half of the test-takers assigned to take the exam on a tablet while the other half assigned to the traditional pen-and-paper format. However, Sept. 21 was the first test date in which everyone across the country took the exam on a tablet.
In the latest law school 
application data released by UC San Diego, from 2012 to 2016, UCSD had an average 
of 302 students each year 
apply to law school. UCSD applicants are admitted to  American Bar Association-accredited law schools at a higher rate nationally, boasting an 86-percent average acceptance rate compared to the 76-percent 
nationwide average. 
According to Jeff Thomas, the executive director of 
pre-law programs at Kaplan Test Prep, the LSAT is an incredibly time-pressured 
exam and is the number 
one most important factor in law school admissions. He explained to the UCSD Guardian that every extra point that a student gets on the exam would potentially put them ahead of thousands of test-takers. 
“Many students often have 
trouble finishing in the time allotted,” Thomas said. “In a paper-and-pencil format, there is a proctor with a watch on his or her wrist. A proctor giving 34.5 versus 35.25 minutes could actually make a difference in the scores. A digital test means 
that everything would remain 
consistent.”
Thomas went on to explain 
that the new digital format would allow for both more test dates and a quicker score turnaround.
“A digital test would allow 
more test dates because there are less logistics, such as scantrons and test booklets, involved,” Thomas said. “The last benefit is that students can get their score back faster because there would be no manual score processing.”
Thomas emphasized 
that students should not worry about technological 
difficulties arising during the exam as all possible mishaps 
have already been planned for. A closed-circuit wifi system is brought into each 
testing center, and there is a 
centralized computing system that constantly tracks the performance of every tablet during the exam. 
“A lot of students are 
skeptical because the internet at their school is slow, but that should not be a problem,” Thomas said. “Test centers have extra tablets, so if a tablet freezes, the centralized system notifies the proctor and swaps it with a new tablet. The student would get the exact same amount of time that was left because the clock would have stopped.”
Thomas reiterates that this 
change is positive and will be beneficial for all law school applicants. Because of the new format, he recommends test-takers utilize the official digital practice tests offered by the Law School Admission Council and take the extra time to familiarize with the new tools, such as flagging questions and highlighting and underlining text. However, practicing in a paper-and-pen format is still an effective way to study as the content of the test is still the same. 
“Potential test-takers 
should still try to practice 
in the traditional format; all question types, sections, 
section length, and scoring have not been changed,” Thomas said. “However, 
every single point on the 
LSAT is important; getting a 160 over a 159 could be the breaking point for a student getting into one school versus another. It is important for students to get used to their tool preferences on a digital format before the test date rather than going into it blind.”
Thurgood Marshall College 
senior Lydia Kim, a political science and communications double major who is looking to go to law school, is also in favor of the new digital format. 
“I think that this shift is 
better because it lowers the paper trail and offers more tools for test-takers,” Kim said. “But there’s always the small risk that digital tests can increase error margin, whether it be from technical issues or the setup of questions in general.”
The next LSAT test date 
is on Oct. 28; applicants can register for future exams on the LSAC’s website. Kaplan Test Prep also has a tutoring center at UCSD, located at Price Center West. 
By Daniel Li
Contributing WriterINTERNET
The Law School Admission Test Goes Completely Digital Beginning Fall 2019
The graduate school exam will be admiistered entirely on tablets beginning this fall, with numerous success safeguards in place. 
Daniel Li  dal234@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  Younger
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
At this year’s convocation, each 
speaker assured the audience that their 
presence at UC San Diego mattered. 
Yet, in praising “the class of 2023” who 
had “just graduated from high school,” most of these speakers forgot about the over 3,000 incoming transfer students 
for which convocation also serves as a 
welcome to UCSD. This mistake, along with the numerous social, academic, and professional obstacles that transfer 
students deal with at UCSD suggests 
that more needs to be done. To start facilitating better service, consideration, 
and celebration of its transfer population, UCSD should create a Transfer Resource 
Center. 
A transfer resource center could help 
alleviate the unique challenges many transfer students face at UCSD. For one, 
UCSD transfer students must learn to 
navigate the quarter system at a much faster rate and with less time to fix a fallen GPA or a failed class than their freshmen 
counterparts. Additionally, compared to 
incoming freshmen, incoming transfer students must learn about and utilize the resources and programs available to them 
at UCSD in much less time if they want 
to graduate on schedule and fulfill their career goals. The Village at Torrey Pines, soon to be replaced by a seventh college, 
currently seeks to assist transfers in this 
process. However, the Village does not serve all of UCSD’s transfer students. It also lacks dedicated resources, like a staff 
that does not have to work primarily with 
housing concerns. It addition, it also lacks the independence that resource centers have. Given these hurdles in navigation, a dedicated resource center, in addition to 
UCSD’s transfer housing, would ensure 
transfer students are better acknowledged and supported. 
Transfer students at UCSD are also 
often seemingly forgotten about, or an afterthought for UCSD’s administration, it’s universal resource centers, and the greater campus community. Tangibly, 
this means that almost all events and 
resources at UCSD are provided with non-transfers in mind. The UCSD Career center’s “prepare for Med school” page provides a clear example of this. It boasts 
a four year plan for UCSD medical school 
applicants to follow, but offers no two year equivalent for transfers aspiring to medical school. Attending a university that continually neglects their needs 
and presence on campus elucidates why 
many transfer students end up feeling disconnected from and unappreciated at UCSD. The dedication of a transfer 
resource center would begin remedying 
these issues by bringing the presence of UCSD’s transfer students to the forefront of campus officials’ attention. It’s creation 
and funding by the university would also 
demonstrate a greater commitment on UCSD’s part to serving and celebrating 
the growing number of transfer students on campus. This reason will only become 
more compelling as transfer students are moved further away from campus in the 
upcoming years. 
  Providing students with a 
transfer resource center would also help 
facilitate a better sense of connectedness 
to UCSD for the school’s annually 
expanding commuting transfer students. Currently, commuting transfers without previous connections can generally only 
comfortably connect with other UCSD 
transfer students through Facebook groups, sporadic university wide transfer events, or by sheer chance.  A transfer 
resource center would remedy this by 
giving commuting transfer students an intentional space to build relationships with other transfer students. The center 
could also provide a comfortable place 
for commuting transfer students to hang out, study, and thus more strongly identify with the greater UCSD Community. Additionally, although UCSD offers 
commuter spaces in the colleges that commuting transfers can utilize, these 
spaces often do not resonate with 
commuting transfer students. Therefore, they are often underutilized by commuting transfer students. A key reason for this is 
that commuter lounges are not welcoming 
to transfer students; transfer students never live in their colleges and therefore do not develop the same relationship with 
the space. To compound this problem, 
few of the colleges seek to strengthen this relationship by providing transfer students 
with resources or events in these spaces. An equally important drawback to commuter 
spaces is that most of these commuter lounges are located in inconvenient places, an issue that a transfer resource center could remedy. Building a transfer 
resource center could therefore provide a 
space for commuting transfer students that they would actually want to use. 
A transfer resource center would also 
supply long term benefits; the space and resources from a transfer resource center would increase transfer students’ ability to impact the decisions that affect transfers 
on campus. For example, resource centers 
generally have directors who can directly advocate for the center’s needs and the students for whom those resource centers 
serve. Transfer organizations, like The All 
Campus Transfer Association , would also benefit from a resource center because they would have a clear and dedicated 
space to meet and organize from. Thus, 
a transfer resource center could bolster transfer students’ voices and therefore ensure future transfer students have a more positive experience at UCSD. 
To address many of the needs outlined 
above, several universities, including UCLA and UC Santa Barbara amongst other University of California schools 
have recently crafted their own transfer 
resource centers. These moves suggest that the need for space and staff devoted solely to transfer student’s success, advocacy, 
and community building is increasingly 
being recognized across the UC system. We may brand ourselves as a school of non-conformists and visionaries, but in this regard, perhaps it’s high time that 
UCSD follow suite and produce a transfer 
resource center of its own. 
“A transfer resource 
center would also 
supply long term 
benefits; the space 
and resources from 
a transfer resource 
center would increase 
transfer students’  
ability to impact the 
decisions that affect 
transfers on campus.”By: Geena Younger // Opinion Editor
UCSD  NEEDS  a  transfer  
resource  centerOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
ASKING THE INTERNET
by System 32 Comics
Want  to  write  
for opinion?  
come to 
recruitment 
7P.M.  10/7  at  
the guardian 
Office6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Out of the approximately 6,000 students who were enrolled at 
UC San Diego in Fall Quarter 2016, about 15 percent are from the San Diego area. For the 29 percent of out-of-state and 
international students, coming to a new environment by themselves can be a scary and overwhelming experience. Campus resources and information on the Internet could only provide so much insight to students who don’t know the area well or who don’t have someone who can mentor them throughout their transition. Even someone like me, who comes from Northern California, can have a hard time adapting to the change in humidity, living away from parents, and figuring out all the ins and outs of academics like using WebReg. Last spring quarter, as I was getting ready to finish my classes and go home, I received my weekly newsletter from the Study Abroad Office. It included an advertisement from the Outreach Coordinators for International and Out-of-State Students for a program called the Global Ambassadors Program, or GAP for short. GAP is a helpful campus resource that reduces the stress that 
comes with moving to a new campus, which is typically different from 
the average student’s home culture or environment. This free resource pairs continuing student volunteers with incoming students according to similar interests, languages, majors, or colleges. The student mentors virtually engage and communicate with their paired mentees by social media, email, or text during the summer about various topics such as academics, campus resources, UCSD student life, and extracurricular activities. Volunteers are provided a handbook of campus resources and a Facebook group with the other mentors in case mentees ask questions that cannot be answered by their mentors. GAP is part of the Outreach Coordinator Department, which caters toward international and out-of-state students. The department started just six years ago, in 2013, and GAP has since served hundreds of students. This year alone, there were 256 incoming students from all over the world who signed up. International participants came from all over the world, ranging from India to Sweden, and American students came from places ranging from New 
Orleans to our border state, Oregon. 
Each of these students was paired with one of the 140 mentors who volunteered this year. However, because there were more mentees than mentors, some mentors had two or more mentees. “There are many types of students who join this program, ” Grace Fuller, one of the Outreach Coordinators, said. “Because of the diversity of people we have in the program, sometimes students and their mentees don’t interact outside of the program, but I’ve seen some students end up as best friends. ” GAP benefits incoming students by helping them connect to campus before they even arrive. Navigating UCSD is much easier if you know the tricks and tips before even coming to campus, which can save a lot of time, money, and frustrations, and leaves room to focus on other things. While incoming students can research the logistics of how the school works and the resources that UCSD offers, they can’t google questions that come from experience. Without GAP , how else would they have advance knowledge on the best path to take from Sixth to York for an 8am class, or the professor to take for math, the best places to spend dining dollars, and tips for getting into student organizations. Most importantly, coming into college with any type of idea of what it’s going to be like will make the experience more enjoyable without having to worry about logistical details, such as when and where to pay your bills and when deadlines for important forms are. Sixth College freshman Angela Wang, recalled her GAP experience. “[It] provided me with a feeling that I belong to UCSD, ” she said. “ I felt like someone was looking out for me even before I stepped foot on campus. ” Wang’s positive experience with GAP was due to the fact that she had a great mentor. The program highly depends on the students who sign up to be a mentee and the students who volunteer to be mentors. For example, if mentees don’t respond to their mentors or if mentors don’t actively ask 
questions and engage their mentees, they wouldn’t have gotten the most out of GAP . While GAP is meant to be a resource for incoming students, it also benefits the mentors. Those who volunteer to become mentors can put this experience onto their Co-Curricular Record, and have official documentation of their skills in leadership and campus engagement to present to future employers. After all the research that I did before coming to UCSD (graduation 
requirements for my college, how does AP credit transfer, where do I go when I first arrive, etc), I figured that I could help someone feel a little less lost than I did, and so I volunteered to become a mentor. My personal experience as a mentor helped me meet people across different cultures, disciplines, and ages. Students who were previous mentees also come back to GAP to become mentors. College is a great time to form friendships and be part of a community. For these incoming students, GAP may be their first community. GAP fosters these relationships just like any other organization or group; they hold socials like international nights where you get to learn about specific cultures, or give coffee vouchers for mentors and mentees to catch up and check on one another. One valuable aspect of being in GAP is learning about 
other’s cultures and backgrounds and why they chose to come to UCSD. 
Cultural competence is also an important skill in any career, from human resources to bioengineering, where working with people from different backgrounds is inevitable. For me, even though I wasn’t paired up with an international mentee, I still got to learn about people who were from a different background than me and got to put together their values as a person. Most importantly, it made me realize how diverse UCSD is. Being exposed to other types of goals, personalities, and interests challenges me every day. It’s a chance to learn and grow with 30,000 other people.
 
Bridging  the  gap  with   gap
UCSD students help International and Out-of-State students transition into UCSD.
By Jenny Lee     Contributing Writer
“GAP benefits incoming students by helping them connect to campus before they even arrive. ”Since 2013, GAP, or Gobal Ambassadors Program, has been reaching hundreds of 
international and out-of-state students.PHOTO COURTESY OF GAP
Jenny Lee   jel003@ucsd.eduFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
GAP not only bene fits the students who participate in the program by providing support, but also the mentors who earn volunteer hours for their work PHOTO COURTESY OF GAP
Come  to  recruitment 10/7  
from  7-8 PM!
A&E EDITORS // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Anastasia
Starring  Lila Coogan, Stephen Bower, Jason Michael Evens
Performance Date   October 2, 2019
Location   San Diego Civic TheatreCB10 days. 29 movies. Th e Guardian’s Natalie Tran returns to Toronto for the 2019 Toronto International Film Festival.
“A n a s t a s i a”  b e a u t i f u l l y  s h o w c a s e s  a n  i n c r e d i b l e  c a s t  o f  v o i c e s  a n d  v i b r a n t  v i s u a l s  b u t  a t  t i m e s  l a c k s  a p p r o p r i a t e  p l o t  e x e c u t i o n .
“Anastasia” is a musical based on the 
1997 animated film of the same name. The story begins in 1906 St. 
Petersburg, with Anastasia and her grandmother, the Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna, saying 
goodbye and promising to meet again someday 
in Paris. Ten years later, in 1916, Anastasia and the royal Romanov family are attacked by the Bolsheviks. Anastasia is initially presumed dead, but citizens speculate that she may have survived. In Paris, the Dowager Empress promises a reward to anyone who can find her. As the Bolshevik regime amasses power, St. Petersburg becomes Leningrad and many of the people are poor and 
destitute. In an effort to escape these conditions 
and become rich, con men Dmitry and Vlad plan to hire a girl to play the role of Anastasia. The men meet Anya, an amnesiac street sweeper who only remembers a promise to meet in Paris, and teach her to become a fake Anastasia.  However, their efforts are complicated when Gleb V aganov, a Bolshevik general, discovers their plan and follows them to Paris, hoping to wipe out the last of Russian royalty. 
The strongest aspect of the musical is the 
singing capabilities of the cast. Lila Coogan (Anastasia), sings with the clarity of a Disney princess, and Stephen Bower’s rendition of Dmitry showcases his incredible vocal range. Jason Michael Evens as Gleb V aganov evokes the powerful singing of broadway legend, Ramin Karimloo, who I later found played Gleb in the original cast of “ Anastasia” in 2015. The original film is also a musical, yet this new rendition 
of “ Anastasia” adds sixteen new numbers 
and maintains a more historical and political tone throughout, doing away with the film’s supernatural elements. Though for the most part, they pale in comparison to iconic songs such as “Once Upon a December” and “Journey to the Past, ” there are a few new gems such as “Land of Y esterday” and “In a Crowd of Thousands. ” Unfortunately, a majority of the numbers contain 
a large amount of plot exposition with important 
lyrics, which, at times, can be difficult to make out.
Another wonderful facet of the musical 
was its creative set, which utilized three large screens and moving props such as a fountain and train carriage. The animations on the screens convinced the audience to sink into Anya’s journey and recall memories from the past. I also appreciated the amount of detail that was put into 
each scene. At one point, the characters watch 
the ballet, “Swan Lake, ” which, I was delighted to note, featured very skilled and professional ballet dancers, a precaution that is not always a priority to musicals with ballet numbers. This detail-oriented treatment extended to the beautiful and extravagant costumes as well, which evoked characteristic fashions of the 1920s and traditional Russian garments. These wonderful visual effects only enhanced the performances of 
a truly talented cast.
That being said, there were certain areas that 
could have been improved, namely a few points 
of plot execution. At times the story’s pacing was awkward, particularly at the end of Act I, where incidents that seem to contribute little to the plot caused it to drag on unnecessarily. I also wondered at the musical’s oversimplification of such a highly complex historical event as the 
Russian Revolution, which is then essentially 
used as a vehicle for a love story. Additionally, as I mentioned prior, there were a few moments that lacked clarity. For instance, there were multiple occasions where it was easy to mistake Dmitry for Gleb, and vice versa, as they don similar attire and, at a distance, looked extremely similar. Another aspect of the story that lacked complete coherence was Gleb’s backstory and motivation to stop Anastasia, which is only exposed in song, 
and therefore, is easy to miss or hear incorrectly. 
Finally, and perhaps most disappointingly, 
I found that Anya’s characterization was highly 
inconsistent and lacked logical nuance. At times, she was a frail, delicate ingenue, while at others, she was an almost caricatured “Strong, Independent Woman, ” single-handedly knocking out six bad guys on her own in a fit of rage. Sometimes she was fearless and would say so, while at others, she resigned herself to her fate 
and simply gave up. Though these traits could 
potentially coexist in a nuanced, well-thought-out character, in this case, these qualities didn’t always align with the situation at hand. Instead, her personality traits were mismatched in a seemingly random way in order to fulfill the requirements of a “multifaceted female character, ” which had a jarring and disjointed effect overall.
Ultimately, “ Anastasia” impressed with 
gorgeous visuals and incredible voices but fell short with regard to a consistently coherent plot and Anastasia’s character design. It does, however, manage to expand the film’s plot to a greater degree of complexity that allows relationships between characters to develop in a more natural way, and it is at times, very funny. I would encourage fans of the film to see the musical, as it brings back a classic story with slightly more 
realistic historical framing.
— Laura  hatanaka
Senior Staff WriterMUSICAL   REVIEWMy journey across the Canadian border 
for the 2019 Toronto International Film Festival entailed surviving almost 
exclusively on granola bars and Tim Hortons, listening to “The Adventure Zone” podcast while 
waiting in block-wrapping lines, and of course, 
watching movies. Oh so many movies. My dad had warned me beforehand that I’ d see enough to throw up. I realized one day, as I fought past screaming fans and photographers to get to my fourth screening of the day, that his joke wasn’t far from the truth. In the 10 days of the festival, which ran from Sept. 5 to Sept. 15, I saw 29 films. Here are my personal highlights.
The “Who’s Cutting Onions in a Movie 
Theater”: “The Friend”
There were many tearjerkers at TIFF 
(my screening of “Just Mercy” had someone uncontrollably sobbing), but “The Friend” takes the cake. Not twenty minutes went by without people around me sniffing and blowing their noses. Dakota Johnson, a terminally ill cancer 
patient, Casey Affleck, her husband, and Jason 
Segel, their best friend, are touching, funny, and tear-inducing. Based on a true story that explores common dynamics like the dysfunctional family, “The Friend” doesn’t reinvent the drama genre. Nonetheless, as an intimate look at mortality, forgiveness, and love, the film is content with telling a very honest, very human story — while pulling at some heartstrings.
The “Most Likely to Give Y ou a Stroke”: 
“Uncut Gems”
Exiting the theater, I was concerned. W as my 
heart racing because of this unrelenting, anxiety-ridden rollercoaster of a film, or because Adam Sandler and Idina Menzel just autographed my ticket? “Uncut Gems” stars Sandler in one of his few “serious” roles (and perhaps his best role to date): an unlucky diamond jeweler running a long tab in unkind New Y ork City. I can’t say I technically enjoyed a movie that was loud, 
ugly, crude, and depressing, but I admit that I 
couldn’t tear my eyes away from the hypnotic decay and destruction onscreen. Sandler’s strong talent along with  Benny and Josh Safdie’s stylish direction keep an uncomfortable movie experience from becoming an unpleasant one. That’s a pretty remarkable feat, and I must give credit where it’s due.
The “SHE’S in This?”: “Knives Out”
Hold up: Jamie Lee Curtis, Daniel Craig, 
Chris Evans, Toni Colette, and several other “wait, I recognize that person” actors, all playing potential culprits in a murder mystery movie? W atching beloved stars go at each other’s throats and battle for the best one-liners is like witnessing the Hollywood version of an MMA match. The stellar cast, eccentric energy, and witty humor 
make this modern whodunnit plenty worth 
watching, but the mystery at the center of the film is disappointingly tame and predictable in its buildup and reveal. In the post-screening Q&A, I asked director Rian Johnson if, when making the movie, he had other culprits in mind for the film. He said no, but I wish he had.
The “I Need to Google Everything”: “Parasite”
Writer-director Bong Joon-ho, behind 
“Snowpiercer” and “Okja, ” returned to the festival circuit with the hit Korean thriller, “Parasite. ” For fear of spoiling the movie’s twists, the only thing you should know about this movie is that it’s about what happens when two socioeconomically disparate families meet. When you’re thinking, “What the hell happened?” afterward, go venture onto Google and read up on the film’s richly layered symbolism and thought-provoking messages of economic inequality, materialism, technology, and family.
The “Cinematic Equivalent of a Lap Dance”: 
“Hustlers”
Smart, sexy, and funny, “Hustlers” is 
a ridiculously satisfying romp of a movie. Its dazzling, female-led cast features Constance Wu and Jennifer Lopez as strip club dancers scamming CEOs and Wall Street traders. With an Oscar-buzzing performance by Lopez, a bopping 
soundtrack that includes both Britney Spears 
and Frédéric Chopin, and a surprisingly sharp and hilarious script, “Hustlers” stylishly and successfully combines the best of comedy and heist drama. But don’t mistake it for being all flash and no substance. “Hustlers” engages with biting social commentary on capitalism and the strip club industry, all while putting on a good show. Just throw your money at it already.
The “It’s Good, But... ”: “Joker”
If you’ve been following film gossip, then 
you’ d know that hotly debated controversy surrounds “Joker” regarding its release potentially sparking real-life violence. But stepping away from the social analysis that could fill this whole page, “Joker, ” judged simply as a film, is not as groundbreaking as it has been hyped up to 
be. On one hand, it’s what you expect: a dark 
character backstory with brilliant acting, score, and cinematography. But underneath an Oscar-friendly veneer is yet another underwhelming comic book origin story that doesn’t add much to a market already bloated with superhero movies. But, hey, this one’s slow and serious, so it has to be good, right?
The “This Belongs in a Museum”: “Weathering 
With You”
The much-anticipated follow-up of director 
Makoto Shinkai’s “Y our Name” is another beautifully animated film. A rain-drenched Tokyo provides the backdrop to a love story that, unfortunately, is a little too simplistic and underdeveloped. However, stunningly gorgeous animation and a lovingly composed score make this film an escapist experience, one best seen on the big screen with a few tissues on hand.
The “Missed Potential”: “Lucy in the Sky”
Its world premiere at TIFF , a few days before 
my showing, was critically slammed. But walking into the theater, I held hope that Natalie Portman’s acting would save it. I was right — almost. Portman’s acting as an emotionally distant astronaut is solid, and for the film’s first two acts, I enjoyed the emotional exploration of Portman’s character and the unique visual and audio flares. 
However, all plot and character development 
unraveled in the jarring, messy third act. Of the 29 films I saw, this was the only one that didn’t receive any applause. It’s a shame that poor writing let down an otherwise decent cast and concept. Funnily enough, the climax of the movie was set in San Diego. As “Lucy in the Sky” was my last film at TIFF, it was a fitting end to my trip.
— Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your new F all 
Quarter U-Pass today! 
Valid September 13, 2019 through January 3, 2020.Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.Last summer, I took the jump into 
the world of “The Handmaid’s Tale” — a dark look into a not-too-
unrealistic alternate reality where a hyper-evangelical patriarchy exercises stringent control over the rights of women. After finishing the book, I binged the Hulu series of the same name, and after watching the latest season, I was excited to jump back into the world of Gilead when it was announced that Margaret Atwood would be writing a sequel to her iconic novel over thirty years later — “The Testaments.”
What I found within the 415 pages was 
a nicely packaged conclusion to a series 
that created a new symbol of feminism 
used by protestors around the world to this day. This packaging, however, was just a little bit too squeaky clean for my taste (don’t worry, I won’t spoil the ending).
But first, a little background on “The 
Handmaid’s Tale” universe: Gilead is an alternate United States in a world where a hyper-conservative Christian religious uprising overthrows the government, setting up a new society in which the rights of women are limited to just about nothing. Everyone in Gilead has a role to play — the titular handmaid a woman who is forced to conceive children for prominent families against her will.
In “The Testaments, ” Atwood takes 
the reader on a journey fifteen years after the events of the first novel, following the lives of three women — Agnes Jemima, a teenager living in Gileadean commander’s home; Daisy, an adopted daughter of a Canadian family who has never known anything less than universal equality; and Aunt Lydia, the infamous antagonist from the first novel, who is a prominent figure in 
Gilead society. All three live very different 
lives until their paths interconnect in a shockingly, albeit fairly predictable way.
“The Testaments” is a lot of fun to read 
if you are a fan of the story’s universe. The book offers a look into the aftermath of everything June accomplished in the first installment, which is a treat for any literary geek who craves to know what happens at the end of any given story. However, unlike the first novel, which followed the lives of a titular handmaid, “The Testaments” gives you a look into how Gilead society affects the livelihoods of those whose stories were left out of the first book. This was an amazing addition to the Gilead universe, as I often wondered while reading the first book what was going through the minds of other characters who were not a part of the same social class that June was.
That all being said, the novel overall was 
too predictable and too clean. After the first act of the book had concluded, I had figured out what the major twists would be. This is not always a problem, however, following a book renowned for its shock 
factor, predictability is a bit of a letdown. 
Additionally, Atwood gave the characters all endings that felt a little too shallow. “The Handmaid’s Tale” ended on a very ambiguous note — you were given some hints as to June’s fate, but you ultimately were left guessing as to how her life turned out. “The Testaments” leaves nothing up to chance, offering a clear cut ending where all conflicts are thoroughly resolved with little to no room for interpretation or ambiguity. Again, this is not necessarily a bad thing, but as a follow-up to a book that executed the opposite so perfectly, it was a bit of a letdown because there was a certain expectation that, when reading something of this universe, nothing ever is truly what it seems.
Critiques aside, “The Testaments” was 
a very fun read, and I commend Margaret Atwood for returning to this universe once more to get her coin that she rightfully deserves. This novel is a true testament to her insight into contemporary society’s persisting problems with gender equality, and I would wholeheartedly recommend 
this book to anyone who is a fan of both 
the first book and the Hulu series.
— Jacob  Sutherland
Contributing WriterThe  testaments
by  Margaret  atwood
B+A story anticipated for over 30 years, “ The T estaments” o ffers three di fferent 
perspectives of the dystopian world of Gilead.
BOOK   REVIEW
Release Date: September 10, 201910                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  7 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
I spent my entire summer working, 
watching television, and, most importantly 
to me, reading. I made it my summer goal to 
catch up on all the new novels and graphic novels that I had on my “To-Read” list. 
Unfortunately, I managed to get through 
around five books, which is way under the couple hundred titles that I have staring at me from my Goodreads account and guilt-
tripping me for re-watching Schitt’s Creek 
instead. So, my summer reading list has now become my “try to read during the quarter 
even though I am suffocating” list, and over 
the past week I plopped myself down for a few minutes to try and enjoy reading again. 
Here are the best places I have found to read 
on campus:
The most idyllic place to relax and read is in 
one of the new hammocks in-between Library 
Walk and the Price Center. The problem is 
that there are only four of them and there are nearly 30,000 undergraduate students. But, 
if you luck out and find an empty hammock, 
you will experience the most peaceful free 
time of your life in the midst of campus chaos. 
My advice: camp out! Just wait and eventually, 
that hammock will be yours, and if you sleep 
there you can gently swing all night and save on rent. I spent an amazing 30 minutes 
reading in one of the hammocks and it truly 
eased all the impending doom of Fall Quarter, at least for a little bit.If you are down on your luck and cannot 
snag a hammock, my next favorite spot 
includes      the colorful blue and green chairs 
located at the corner of Library Walk behind the arcade. If you walk up the ramp behind 
Price Center Theater, you will see them! They 
are super comfy to sit or lay down on and their built-in umbrellas create nice shade.
These two amazing options pose one 
problem: it is so incredibly easy to fall asleep there. So, the third-best place to read is a concrete bench of your choosing. UC San 
Diego seems to love sitting areas made of 
concrete. I actually like to read on the spacious concrete platforms located on Library Walk, 
or the benches in front of Warren Lecture 
Hall. They are perfect for stopping to read when you are a few minutes early to class and are just uncomfortable enough to keep 
you awake so that you still get points for 
attendance.
If you have just fully and completely 
accepted that nothing is going to stop you from probably falling asleep at some point, 
then try the chairs facing the windows on the 
eighth floor of Geisel Library. I have heard 
a few students say that they have never even 
gone up to the eighth floor for fear of it being too busy, but in my experience, I usually find 
at least a few chairs open and the best part is 
the view. The chairs facing outward towards the windows have high backs, and they swivel gently. If you suddenly realize that you are afraid of heights, you can close the blinds in 
front of you and relax in the dim quiet. One of 
the best parts of the eighth floor is that it truly is silent, it feels like you have been transported 
to another world, high above campus. If I need 
to be inside and focused for a long amount of time, it is definitely my favorite place to be. 
I wanted to try and get back into reading for 
pleasure just because it really helps the world 
slow down for me. I love to read for fun, but I 
understand that it may not relax everyone. So 
use these nice places on campus for whatever you may need at each moment! After relaxing 
at these few places on campus I have the 
resolve to continue working hard during the 
quarter. Do whatever makes you happy and 
comfortable! No matter how stressed out I get 
during the quarter, I have realized that a huge 
amount of stress and anxiety can be relieved by just making myself comfortable. The power 
to change my surroundings — being in the 
shade, moving to the sun when I get too cold, 
escaping to my own, personal literary world 
while in the midst of all the other happenings 
on campus — really makes a difference. Having 
such a large campus can seem daunting, but I 
have also been at my most peaceful on campus 
during my small amounts of off time. To all the new students starting      Fall      Quarter, and to 
all the returning students; have a great quarter, 
explore campus, and find some places to read 
and relax that are perfect for you!
Best Places to Read on 
Campus
by Carla Altomare, Lifestyle Staff Writer
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Co-EditorMaking it Feel Like Fall
If you’re not one for the infamous Pumpkin Spice 
Latte or its new counterpart, the Pumpkin Spice 
Cold Brew, Starbucks is also bringing back the Salted 
Caramel Mocha. In addition, Peet’s has their Honey 
Harvest Latte, and Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf has a 
Winter Dream Tea Latte, a Maple Latte, and a Maple 
Rooibos Tea Latte. If you’re more of a Philz person, 
their Tesora or Philharmonic blends have nice earthy undertones! To save money, you can make your own 
chai latte or apple cider at home. (I recommend 
Oregon Chai’s tea concentrate!)It’s officially fall, but instead of brisk mornings and 
colorful leaves, San Diego is once again serving up 
70-degree weather and pool-perfect days. Autumn is 
personally my favorite season, but with summer extending 
into September and October, it can be difficult to fully 
enjoy. Here are my tips for how to make it feel more like fall. 
T reat Y ourself to a F all Drink T ry a F all Scent Visit a Pumpkin Patch
I’m a sucker for fall-scented candles. I was recently 
gifted a “Giant Cinnamon Roll” one, which I will 
definitely be using over the next few months, and will 
transition into Bath and Body Works’ “Cranberry” as 
we near December. If you’re not one for open flames 
in your room, there are plenty of room sprays in scents 
like cinnamon, pumpkin, or various baked goods. For 
something that can double as room decor, pick up some potpourri for a light, natural smell. Ah, yes, the Instagrammer’s favorite fall event. I’ve 
fallen guilty to this trope, but visiting a pumpkin patch 
just takes me back to elementary school field trips 
where everyone would get to return home covered in 
hay, tiny gourd in tow. Head to your local pumpkin 
patch, grab some carving supplies, and invite your 
friends over for some good-old jack-o-lantern fun. For 
a less messy event, you can paint on your pumpkins! And if you want to feel a little more original, head to 
an apple orchard instead. 
Speaking of pumpkin carving, opt for a “pie 
pumpkin” so you can repurpose the insides for a 
pie! Other easy desserts include fruit cobblers or snickerdoodles. If you’re more of a savory person, 
opt to roast seasonal vegetables like butternut squash, 
carrot, or cauliflower, instead of pan-frying them. Bake Something Warm
Sometimes a blanket thrown over a chair or draped 
over a bed can add that extra cozy feeling. Honorable 
mentions go to warm-toned rugs and fairy lights. If 
you want to invest in more seasonal decor, consider a 
wreath on your door or any items in the red-to-orange 
color family.     Redecorate Y our SpaceLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranovawhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Written by Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Co-Editor
This year, I am entering my third year as a Triton and 
yet I still feel that I just got here. Three years in and I still 
haven’t found my “place” or all of my “people. ” I will be the 
first one to admit that I have blamed this feeling on UC San 
Diego itself: the campus is way too big, the university is not student centered enough, and, finally, I attend a school nicknamed UC Socially Dead! However, as I start this 
quarter, I’ve taken some time to also look at my own efforts 
so far: I am guilty of walking everywhere with headphones in and my head down. I sit down in a lecture hall and silently 
pray someone talkative won’t sit next to me. I do everything 
in my power to avert my eyes from those handing out flyers on Library Walk. Before I started school here, I was not at all 
this introverted or antisocial! So what happened? 
First off, let me acknowledge that all of the points I (and 
many others) have made about UCSD above are valid. I do think the sheer size of the university plays a significant 
part. I believe that this school and the administration could work much harder on finding a balance between being a research institution and also caring about its students and 
their wellbeing. Also, anyone who attends a school with 
a “socially dead” nickname is bound to be affected by the stigma brought on by such a title. All of these are legitimate 
and, quite frankly, very strong arguments in my opinion. 
However, we cannot just admit these defeats and simply wait for the university to change itself.
Growing up, we watch movies and TV shows that 
advertise the college experience as something that immediately changes your life from the moment you step on campus. And for some of us lucky ones, this can be 
pretty true. However, for the rest of us, there’s something we 
weren’t told: the school is not going to create this amazing experience for you. For many of us, this is the first time in our lives where we are almost completely in control of 
our own lives, which can bring lots of excitement and also 
a lot of fear. We choose the people we are surrounded by, 
the major we want, the student orgs we want to join. What 
the downside seems to be is that if you’re like me, the sheer amount of options was so overwhelming that the most practical and comfortable thing to do was to retreat back 
into my shell. For better or for worse, my fellow Tritons, 
these are the years where we put ourselves out there! We have all the power to make these four years here something 
great, so why not just go for it? 
This year, I have a challenge for myself and everyone else 
out there like me. This is the quarter that we begin to find our place in San Diego! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are 
finally going to attend that GBM we’ve been debating on showing up to for the past two years and we are finally going 
to get up and perform at that open mic night.[a] We’ll attend 
an event or two and either stick with it or tell ourselves that even though it might not be for us, at least we gave it a shot. And remember, you are not as awkward or weird as 
you might tell yourself; these people and orgs will welcome 
you with open arms and if for some reason they don’t, well, you can go ahead and cross that group off the list. No more 
settling. We are going to take out our earbuds at least a few 
days a week, which means we will be open to conversation, take the flyer and nod like we’re totally going to that 
meeting, and welcome communication with our classmates! 
We have to refuse to give into the comfortable loneliness that this campus so easily offers us. It’s not too late to create the college life that you imagined yourself living. Whether 
it’s on campus or off, there is something for you out there. 
So, my fellow Tritons, let’s get out there and take our college experience back! 
T aking UC “Socially Dead” Into 
Y our Own Hands12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  7 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
www.SiebelScholars.comSiebel Scholars Class of 2020
The Siebel Scholars program was founded in 2000 to recognize the most talented  
graduate students in business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science. Each  
year, over 90 outstanding graduate students are selected as Siebel Scholars based on academic  excellence and leadership and join an active, lifelong community among an ever-growing group 
of leaders. We are pleased to recognize this year’s Siebel Scholars.
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Scott Albert
Morgan ElliottMichael Ketcha
Christine O’Keefe
David Wilson
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Sarah Bening
Jared KeheLauren Milling
Lauren Stopfer
Andrea WallaceSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Andres Aranda-Diaz
Kara BrowerMialy DeFelice
Alexandro Trevino
Andrew Yang
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Roberto Falcón-Banchs
Christina FuentesAri Joffe
Sally Winkler
Kayla WolfUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO 
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Pranjali Beri
Xin FangVishwajith Ramesh
Martin Spang
Yiqian Wu
MIT 
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Alexandra Beizer
Allison BrouckmanEmma KornetskyHans NowakJonathan Tham
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
KELLOGG SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Abhishek Ravi
Ellie RyanSTANFORD UNIVERSITY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Timothy Brown
Phillipe RodriguezNathaniel SegalAngela Sinisterra-WoodsIlana Walder-BiesanzUNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
BOOTH SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Shining Li 
Benjamin LinTobin MillsMargaret PoissonDavid Tracy
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Kenneth Holstein
Michael Madaio Amadou NgomEric WongJunpei Zhou
HARVARD JOHN A. PAULSON SCHOOL 
OF ENGINEERING & APPLIED SCIENCES
Marcus Comiter
Sebastian GehrmannMeena JagadeesanYuliang LiAlexander Wei
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Katharine Bacher
Enric BoixM. Doga Dogan
Kyungmi Lee
Clinton WangPRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  
APPLIED SCIENCE
Noah Apthorpe
Sumegha GargMengying PanZoe ParaskevopoulouRaghuvansh Saxena
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Benjamin Anderson
Benjamin Hannel
Caroline Ho
Jihyeon LeeLuca Schroeder
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION SCIENCE  
AND TECHNOLOGY
Mengyang Liu
Hongyu LuJianxin MaJunye YangXiaoyuan YiUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Alvin Kao
Titan Yuan
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Mingzhe Hao
Camilo Arias MarteloJonathan TanKevin YaoYuliana Zamora
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Nuraini Aguse
Qingrong Chen
Aniket Murhekar
Jonathan Osei-OwusuJoon Sung Park
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Elizabeth Reed
ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE GRADUATE SCHOOL
Maxime Grangereau
MIT SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Graham Leverick
POLITECNICO DI TORINO DOCTORAL SCHOOL
Marco Savino PiscitelliSTANFORD UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF EARTH, ENERGY  & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
Timothy Anderson
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Pengfei Meng
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Patricia Hidalgo-GonzalezUNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Thomas Foulkes
THE UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Sangwon KimBIOENGINEERING
BUSINESS
COMPUTER SCIENCE
ENERGY SCIENCECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | DATE | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
 ARTPWR RESENTS:  SAMIN NOSRAT FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
EDUCATIONCORPS OPEN HOUSE - 
CSI ONE STOP DESK (PRICE CENTER, 
LEVEL 3 )
Interested in tutoring K-12 students in the San 
Diego community? Then join us for our Open House 
on October 8th from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm. Come 
and learn more about our mission and what we do! All majors are welcome and no tutoring experience is required! Contact: amh079@ucsd.edu
8pm
RUDRESH MAHANTHAPPAS 
INDO-PAK COALITION WITH REZ 
ABBASI & DAN WEISS - THE LOFT
Jaw-dropping . . . one of the finest saxophonists 
going. Pitchfork Few musicians share the ability of 
Rudresh Mahanthappa to embody the expansive 
possibilities of his music with his culture. He is an 
alto saxophonist and composer who materializes a 
sound that hybridizes progressive jazz and South 
Indian classical music in a fluid and forward-looking form that reflects Mahanthappas 
own experience growing up as a 
second-generation Indian-American. The Indo-Pak 
Coalition, featuring Pakinstani-American guitarist Rez Abbasi and percussionist Dan Weiss, blends 
the sounds of jazz with Mahanthappas South 
Indian roots, creating a new and sublime 
complexity of sound. The result is a fiery jazz with Indian-Pakistani influences and a modern touch. 
Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://artpower.ucsd.edu/
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(2pm
COPING WITH STRESS - STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES, MURRAY'S 
PLACE
Learn research-backed strategies to manage the 
stress of being a student, including time management, self-compassion,conquering unhelpful thoughts, and mindfulness and relaxation.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about our experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact: Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or catthompson@ucsd.edu
5pm
INTERESTED IN AUTONOMOUS 
UNDERWATER VEHICLES? - PRICE 
CENTER BEAR ROOM
If you're looking for a fun org to join this year, 
check out Triton Robosub. We build AUVs and compete in an international robotics competition every summer here in San Diego! Some of the things we'll be doing this year are: - Tackling a design project from the Navy - Designing, building and testing a brand new sub - Integrating hydrophones and underwater acoustics - Building custom boards - Machine Learning-aided computer vision - Community outreach - A journal paper, to be published after the competition No experience necessary, and we're not just looking for engineers! If anyone is interested in finance, business, social media, or outreach, we're looking to fill those roles as well!TUE10.01
THU10.037pm
ASCE & TRITON FEST PRESENTS: 
HAUNTED HOEDOWN - SUN GOD 
LAWN AND MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM 
UC San Diego's most haunted event is back! 
Enjoy delicious food, haunting games, and more! Learn how to line dance, visit the petting zoo, and prepare to be scared by the Themed Entertainment Association's haunted maze inside Mandeville Auditorium. Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/405869056798233SAT10.05MON10.07
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR MIND 
- THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcome! Yoga Mats are provided!
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
WOMEN'S CENTER, SMALL GROUP 
ROOM
Starting Week 2, join CAPS and LGBT Resource 
Center for conversations about our experiences as 
gay men. This forum addresses relationships, 
sexual health, community building, and more! 
Contact: Dr. Greg Koch 858-534-3585 or 
gkoch@ucsd.edu
5pm
SKIP THE TRAFFIC W/ ALL CAMPUS 
COMMUTER BOARD - THE LOFT
University Centers Presents: Skip the Traffic w/ All 
Campus Commuter Board Location: The Loft Event 
Time: 5:00 PM - 7:00PM FREE for UCSD Students 
w/ ID Tired of waiting in traffic on your way home? 
Mingle, Dine & Skip the Traffic, w/ ACCB! This is a 
great opportunity to meet fellow commuters and 
relax after a long day! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/204760501200
6006/
1pm
IMPACT OF EARLY LIFE 
DEPRIVATION ON COGNITION - 
CONRAD T. PREBYS AUDITORIUM, 
SALK INSTITUTE
Impact of Early Life Deprivation on Cognition: 
Implications for the Evolutionary Origins of the Human Mind will explore the influences of early life environment and culture on the emergence of the adult mind. Co-presented by CARTA and KIBM. Contact: ibenirschkeperkins@ucsd.edu Website: https://carta.anthropogeny.org/events/impact-early-life-deprivation-cognition-implications-evolutionary-origins-human-mind
8pm
SAMIN NOSRAT - BALBOA THEATRE
As an undergraduate studying English at UC Berkeley, Samin Nosrat took a detour into the kitchen at Chez Panisse restaurant that happily determined the course of her life and career. Since 2000, she has pursued her twin passions of food and words with equal vigor, aiming to create work that inspires, creates community, and raises cultural, social, and environmental awareness. Her New York Times bestselling book, Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat: Mastering the Elements of Good Cooking, won the 2018 James Beard General Cookbook of the Year, among other notable awards. A documentary series based on the book is now streaming on Netflix. Shes currently working on her next book, titled What to Cook. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu Website: https://artpower.ucsd.edu/
9pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: COMEDY 
NIGHT - PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WESTFRI10.04
3pm
CHOIR! CHOIR! CHOIR! - BORDER 
FIELD STATE PARK
Choir! Choir! Choir! (led by Canadian artists 
Daveed Goldman and Nobu Adilman) forms impromptu choirs of strangers to learn songs and perform a concert together. Holding events all over North America, they have performed in holes, on hills, and on big stages at Carnegie Hall, Radio City Music Hall, Joes Pub, Art Gallery of Ontario, Parliament Hill in Ottawa, and many more. In this participatory event, singers of all levels will unite on both sides of the USMexico border to sing with Choir! Choir! Choir! and celebrate the unique friendship, culture, and community we share in the border region of San Diego and Tijuana. While we will be divided by the physical border, music knows no boundaries and our voices together will transcend barriers. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu Website: https://artpower.ucsd.edu/SUN10.13WED10.028pm · BALBOA THEATRE, DOWNTOWN SD
3pm
INTERNATIONAL DAY OF THE GIRL 
CHILD - BORDER STORIES – GREAT HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
The UC San Diego Center on Gender Equity and 
Health in collaboration with International House and United Nations Association-San Diego, 
present a panel discussion exploring current 
migration policies and their impact on girls in 
celebration of the International Day of the Girl Child. Art from local schools will be displayed and student groups related to the topic will have tables at the event displaying activities.
Contact: globalforumihouse@ucsd.eduWebsite: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/128068480542
5565/
4pm
UCDC FALL 2019 INFORMATION 
SESSION - RED SHOE ROOM
Are you interested in interning in Washington D.C. 
for a quarter but want to know more? Come to our 
Fall 2019 information session on October 9th at 
4PM in the Red Shoe Room, PC West. More information for this information session can be found on the Facebook @UCSanDiegoUCDC event page. In this info session our UCDC team will tell you what the UCDC program encompasses, how you can apply, and answer any questions you may have. If you're interested, please attend! Contact: ucdc@ucsd.edu Website: https://aip.ucsd.edu/programs/ucdc/index.htmlTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
OCT 7 - OCT 13
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
PIZZA TOPPINGSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Long for
5. Ye ___ shoppe9. Screenwriter Chayefsky
14. Opposing
15. Lowing places
16. Leave out17. “___ a Name” (Croce tune)18. Crazed
19. Eskimos’ kissers?
20. “Do You Believe in Magic” band
23. Obsolescent office temp24. Blunt sword25. Be decisive
28. Pink-elephant sighters
31. Draws out
33. Campgrounds residue36. Jude or James39. Ms. Teasdale
40. 1962 Polanski film
44. Reckless
45. Land and sea meeting place46. Curvy letter47. Skater Baiul50. Program command52. Marshal of Waterloo53. There are 54 in a game, usually56. Okra soup60. Decision spot64. Gambler’s loss, figuratively66. Spaghetti sauce brand67. Kind of van or bus68. Cockney’s challenge69. Emerald Isle70. Commodious crafts71. Steep-walled land formations72. Adept73. Hatchling’s homeDOWN
1. Posts2. Iron bar3. Potbelly, for one
4. Some protests
5. Automotive pioneer
6. Spring7. Actor Willem8. Prohibit legally
9. Like some fattened livestock
10. Baseball’s Moises
11. Disjoint12. H.S.T. successor13. Conciliatory response
21. Lariat’s end
22. Born
26. Shimon of Israel27. Pre-Revolution leaders29. Mai ___
30. Confessor’s revelations
32. Superpower’s letters
33. Ohio city34. Grass inhabitant?35. Whiny temper tantrums37. Highest degree38. Archaic pronoun41. Agcy. for homeowners42. East or West ending43. Golf club48. Some bridge positions49. Shore bird51. Words in a James Coburn film title54. Out of gas55. Drum type57. Watery-patterned cloth58. Safe places?59. Keats or Milton, notably61. Killer whale62. End of the work week letters63. Peck partner64. Uncle of 32-Down65. HurryBIKES
“Nirve 20” bmx bike- Up for sale is a 
rebuilt and very clean 20” Nirve bmx 
bike. The bicycle has been completely 
rebuilt with fresh Maxima grease, with 
some upgraded parts. Such as the new 
Wellgo chrome pedals, new brake cable, 
new grips, chain tension-er, new chain, 
etc. This bike is best suited as a start up 
bike, for a rider that is between 4’ and 5’ tall, however I’m 5’ 10” and the bike 
is still fun to ride around the streets. I 
meticulously lubed and tuned the bike, 
as if my son was getting it. Wheels are 
trued totally ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Haro “Backtrail x 1” BMX Bike- HARO 
“BACKTRAIL X one RYAN NYQUIST 
EDITION” BMX FREE STYLE Bike 
EXCELLENT ! Condition “RIDE WITH 
THE BIG DOGS !” 19” center bar PRO 
FRAME,195 x 20” BMX Wheels has Self Lubricating Sealed Bearings, Oversize 
Axles, Free Spinning Rear gear, Hand 
Brake 360 degree Rotating Handle Bars, 
Super Grip BMX Pedals, Foot Pegs can 
be mounted to axles, asking ….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
52 cm Centruian “Le Mans RS” - 52 cm 
(c-c) Centurion ‘Le Mans RS’ twelve 
speed, now available! Tange two Cr-Mo 
lugged steel frame, and Mangaloy fork. 
27” alloy Araya wheelset w/Suzue hubs. 
SunTour Cyclone deraillers and shifters, 
Dia-Compe brakes, and Sugino cranks. 
1 of the best exam… ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
 CARS 
2015 Volksagen Jetta Sedan- Military 
Discount. $0 Down. Over 250 
Customized Cars.LiftedTrucks & SUVs. 
SeHablaEspanol . Bad Credits Ok. Best 
Selection of Quality Vehicles in….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation2018-Ford F-series- Odometer is 
15605 mis below market average! 
White 2018 Ford F-150 Raptor 4D 
SuperCrewCertified. Ford Certified Used 
Info:* 172 Point Inspection* Includes 
Rental Car and Trip Interruption 
Reimbursement* Transferable 
Warranty* Roadside Assistance* Limited Warranty ….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2019 Mini Clubman Cooper S- This 
2019 MINI Cooper S Clubman four 
door features a 2.0L four Cyl four cyl -
inder Gasoline engine. It is equipped 
with a 6 Gear Automatic transmission. The vehicle is Moonwalk Gray Metallic 
with a Carbon Black Sensatec interior. 
It is offered with a full factory war -
ranty. - Powered steering, Power Mirrors, 
Leather Steering Wheel, Power Drivers 
Seat, Power Passenger Seat, Clock, 
Tachometer, Telescopic Steering Wheel, 
Steering Wheel Radio Controls, Driver 
Air bag ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERNSHIPS 
Entry Level Teacher (K-12) - As a Teach For America Corps Member, you will have the privileged and unique oppor -
tunity to inspire and impact the educa -
tion of young children by serving in a full-time salaried teacher in a low-income community within the US. Each 
year, thousands of diverse leaders across 
the country, from Graduating College 
Seniors across all majors to Experienced 
Professionals from both the public and 
private sector and across all professions 
including ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Sales Development Representative 
- We’re currently seeking a Sales 
Development Associate to join our rap -
idly growing company in Boston. We’re 
looking for a sales-driven person that 
is entrepreneurial and is looking for an opportunity to grow and make real 
impact. You will be responsible for lead 
generation, business development and 
user base growth. This is a a super excit -
ing role for a smart, results-oriented and 
driven person. ….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Sales & Marketing Manager - This is 
your stepping stone to becoming a core 
component of a fast-growing startup! 
This role will teach you how to launch 
a product and what it takes to run 
your own business. After which you’ll 
have the opportunity to travel and take 
Hooked to additional cities or join our 
core team as a Regional Director for 
Hooked at our headquarters in Santa 
Monica, California! We are looking for… 
….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardian
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 10am-3pm
Wednesday: 11am-3pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-4pm
Friday: 1 2pm-5pmFALL 2019
Women’s Volleyball Fends off Otters for 
Second Straight Win 
After an inconsistent first two weeks of the 
season, the UC San Diego women’s volleyball 
team seems to have found their groove, extend-
ing their winning streak to two games with a 3–1 victory at RIMAC Arena against the Cali-
fornia State University, Monterey Bay Otters. 
The Tritons current win-streak was preced-
ed by back-to-back 3–0 losses. Though UCSD 
won its last game against California State Uni-
versity, Dominguez Hills 3–0, questions still 
hovered around the team. Was their last win a 
new normal or an aberration? Could they rep-
licate their last performance?
After a promising start to the game, it seemed 
like UCSD was reverting back to their old ways. 
In the third set, leading the game in sets 2–0, 
the Tritons seemed to be allowing the Otters 
back into the game. In the first two matches, 
the Tritons got early in the game and never re-linquished the lead, leading to 25–18 and 25–13 finishes. 
Now, in set number three, UCSD was strug-
gling to even get a lead. Head coach Ricci Luy-
ties made it clear to his team (and everyone 
watching) that he was not happy with their 
performance: pacing the sidelines and throw-
ing his hands up in exasperation on each mis-
timed block or missed dig. 
“I was frustrated because we gave a lot of er-
rors at the end there,” Luyties said. “Not that [CSUMB] wasn’t making plays, but we com-
pounded it by making some errors just giving 
points away.”
UCSD dropped the third set 25–22, keeping CSUMB’s hopes of winning alive for another set.
By the fourth set, the Tritons seemed to 
brush off the memory of the third set and re-turned to their early game form. The scene on 
the sidelines had calmed, with Luyties nodding 
approvingly as his team got up to an early 7–0 
lead. Senior outside hitter Sidney Tekstra and 
senior middle blocker Jessica Rieble had key 
plays at the end of the fourth set to take the Tri-
tons to a 25–18 lead, winning the set and giving 
the game to the Tritons.
Luyties did make one key lineup change for 
the final set, replacing starting senior libero 
Alyson Penrose with junior outside hitter Em-
ily Hubbard. “[Penrose] wasn’t receiving serves 
as good as she normally does so we went with 
[Hubbard] to take her spot, who did really well 
in her spot passing,” Luyties said.
Though Luyties was disappointed with last 
week’s losses, he feels that the experience of be-
ing down and coming back to win was good for 
the team: “We’ve had a couple of tough losses 
in a row there, especially the one at home so we 
really had to recover,” Luyties said.“I think we 
did a good job in Dominguez Hills and seeing 
how they react after that as well after losing and 
coming back and playing well … I thought they 
did a good job.”By Wesley Xiao
Senior Staff Writer
Wesley Xiao wex057@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSThe UC San Diego women’s soccer team (8–0–1, 3–0–1 
conference) kicked off their seven-game conference 
homestand with a 1–0 defeat of the California State 
Polytechnic University, Pomona Broncos (5–3, 1–1 conference). Thanks to a stifling defense that only 
allowed four shots, all the No. 2 Tritons needed was an 
expertly placed 24th-minute free-kick from freshman midfielder Mika Celeste to get a win.
UCSD’s defense was smothering in the first half, 
allowing just one shot. On offense, one of the better chances of the half was set up by redshirt senior midfielder Natalie Saddic, who cut through traffic before playing the 
ball towards redshirt sophomore midfielder Kameryn 
Hoban, though Broncos sophomore goalkeeper Sydney Williams reached the ball first. 
However, the Tritons struck the back of the net 
minutes later, as Celeste deftly arced a free-kick from just outside the box into the top left corner of the net before Williams could even react. “We talk about it a lot, 
that early goals change everything, ” UCSD head coach 
Kristin Jones said. “It was a special one tonight. Give Mika all the credit in the world. ” 
The goal was Celeste’s third of the season, tying her 
with Saddic for the team lead.
In the second half, Cal Poly Pomona applied more 
pressure on offense as they sought to equalize. Their best chance came in the 55th minute, as the Broncos outnumbered the Tritons on the counterattack; but 
redshirt freshman midfielder Sophia Bruno was able to 
redirect the attack outside until reinforcements arrived. Despite the building tension, the match finished without much threat of an equalizer. 
The Triton defense allowed few Bronco chances, 
requiring redshirt senior goalkeeper Angelica Ramos to make only one save. But UCSD had offensive struggles 
as well: “To Pomona’s credit, they were very organized 
and took away options that we usually have when we build our attack, ” Jones said. “We were forced to play the 
ball into space more than we want. ” 
With the win, UCSD continues its unbeaten season, 
with only a double-overtime draw against California 
State University, East Bay preventing them from 
perfection and a tie with Sonoma State University atop 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association. The office is unlike any other at UC San Diego. A glossy 
wood grain ceiling reflects the natural light pouring in from 
large floor to ceiling windows. Photos, trophies, medals, and more are strewn around an office filled with water polo caps. One door leads you to the rest of the Canyonview Aquatics Center, while the other opens up to the outdoor training pool. No linoleum, no LED lighting, just a bright and vibrant space for a coach with the exact same vibe.
It’s no wonder the office fits him perfectly though; he got to 
design it himself. The same could be said of the UCSD men’s water polo team.
Coach Denny Harper is the big man on campus when it 
comes to UCSD’s water sports. The director of aquatics for 26 years and head coach of the men’s water polo team for 40 seasons, Harper has been at UCSD as a water polo coach since he was in his twenties. 
“I was only two or three years older than them, ” Harper 
said. “We certainly had good times back then and they were my friends, yet they respected me as their coach. ”
Harper has coached the men’s team for all of his time at 
UCSD, but that has been far from his only role. A father of five children, Harper coached the women’s water polo team for 16 seasons, going to five USA W ater Polo National Championships before the NCAA had recognized it as a sport. 
“I’m proud of the fact that our program was without a doubt 
instrumental in having the NCAA realize that [women’s water polo] was a viable sport and should be sponsored, ” Harper said.  “I honestly believe that without the UCSD women’s 
[water polo] program being treated as a varsity program 
under [former athletic director] Judy Sweet’s watch, I don’t know that the NCAA would’ve chosen women’s water polo to be an actual sport. ”
But by far his most famous job on campus has been his 
role in turning around the men’s water polo team almost immediately after accepting the job, a job he’s not even sure anyone else applied for. After taking over in 1980, Harper’s teams gained national exposure just a couple of seasons later. He credits the success to the players he inherited, a group which he proudly refers to as the “Transition Team” .
“From the get-go, I was put in a situation where I inherited 
a bunch of guys that thought that they could play at a much higher level, ” Harper said. “They were the ones that started 
playing a tougher schedule; they set the tone. ”
The next season, the team finished 10th in the nation, 
which Harper credits to “jumpstarting” the program’s rise to 
the top of the NCAA. Even without having the “astronomical resources” of some major programs around the country, Harper’s squads embraced the mindset of “needing to be overachievers” in order to compete, something he believes has carried on through all these years. 
Despite all of the accolades and awards he has earned as 
a coach, which includes 16 Association of College W ater Polo Coaches awards, 19 Western W ater Polo Association championships, and over 640 career wins, the story of Harper becoming a member of the Triton athletics family has little of the shine that the rest of his illustrious coaching career has 
garnered. 
His story involves only his best friend and a love for water 
polo. 
Harper’s best friend from Santa Barbara Community 
College, Russ Hafferkamp, now an assistant water polo coach 
with UC Berkeley, had the job first. After Harper finished coaching San Diego State University’s women’s club water polo and finished playing water polo for SDSU, Hafferkamp still had the job at UCSD. But when Hafferkamp left for a job in Pismo Beach, his best friend was his first call.  
“It all happened fairly organically, ” Harper said. “He called 
me and said ‘ Are you interested in taking over? I’m leaving, ’ and I said ‘Sure. ’”
Needless to say, the interview, which was led in part by his 
friend Hafferkamp, went well and he got the chance to coach the men’s water polo team at UCSD. Harper says he still has a copy of the contract he signed, which guaranteed him a meager sum of $800. 
“ At the time it wasn’t ‘I’m going to be a college coach;’ we 
were all doing it just for the love of coaching, ” Harper said. “It was a classic case of becoming immediately connected and enamored with the players that I had; I pretty much got hooked. ”
A lot has happened at UCSD though, since Harper’s first 
day on the job. In the time since he became head coach and today, Canyonview Aquatics Center was built in 1983, along with the Triton pool in 2006. The university has expanded in general over the last 40 years, with the student population swelling from around 8,000 to over 30,000 students. 
“The growth here has been kind of staggering, ” Harper said. 
“It’s exciting, [but] I will say there are certainly aspects of the 
small sleepy campus here in La Jolla I miss. ”
Even though he’s been here for all these years, spanning 
nearly five decades, Harper still envisions a bright future 
at UCSD, with the trolley humming around campus and Division I athletics bringing students together. 
But for now, Harper is content to continue to man the helm 
from his uncommon office, as he attempts to guide his Tritons deep into the NCAA Division I playoffs once again. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Cal State Los Angeles
at Loyola Marymountvs Humboldt Statevs Humboldt StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
M Water Polo
M Soccer
W Soccer7PM1PM
4:30PM
7PM10/8
10/1210/1110/11
“It’s been a charmed life.”  Insights
Reflecting on Coach Denny Harper’s 40 seasons at UCSD.
By Jack Dorfman
Sports EditorTritons Drop to 7-2 
after first conference 
loss
The UC San Diego Men’s Soccer team’s valiant effort 
against inter-conference rival, the California State 
Polytechnic University, Pomona Broncos, fell short as 
the Tritons lost 2–0 on Friday night. This marks the first conference loss of the season for the Tritons, 
pushing their overall record to 7–2 and their California 
Collegiate Athletic Association record to 2–1, while Cal Poly Pomona jumps to .500, and sports a 3–3–1 record so far. 
Despite outshooting the Broncos, 15–12, the Tritons’ 
attack was unable to find the back of the net all game, as only 2 of their 15 shots were on target. Both on-target 
shots came off the legs of veteran starters, as junior 
forwards Jonathan Sabouri and Brett Jones made last-ditch efforts in the final five minutes of the game to try 
and make something happen. The Tritons were also 
awarded more corners than the Broncos (9–2), but were unable to cash in on these opportunities. 
In a quiet offensive game for UCSD, one of the bright 
spots occurred early on, in the 15th minute, when redshirt junior goalie Pedro Enciso made a diving block and save on a penalty kick after sophomore defender 
Noah Sonenstein was called for a foul inside the box. 
After their first loss in four games, the Tritons will look 
to change their fortunes when they take on California State University, Humboldt (4–3) this Friday. The team 
is currently sitting in the upper part of the CCAA standings and with an upcoming six-game homestand 
ahead of them. If they are able to find their rhythm, a 
grasp of the conference lead does not seem too out of sight for the Tritons. MEN’S SOCCER
By Praveen Nair
Staff Writer
Pra veen  Nair  prNair@ucsd,eduFree Kick Gives 
Tritons the Edge in 
1-0 WinWOMEN’S SOCCER
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu
Triton 
Timeout
Hope for things 
to come: fan 
atmosphere for 
future home gamesWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
UC San Diego started classes in the 
final week of September. Games started 
in late August and through September. While this helps players get acclimated to the grind of the season — most of which will occur during the academ-ic year — it is less than ideal to have games start before students are back on campus because you miss out on a lot of your fan base. 
But now that the first full week of 
class is over, students are back on cam-pus, and they’re also back in their seats at RIMAC Arena, RIMAC Field, and 
Canyonview Aquatic Center.
Students have embraced their fall 
sports early on this season, which gives 
me hope that they’ll keep showing up throughout the fall and for the winter and spring sports as well. Part of the reason fans are showing up is that it’s the beginning of the year, and sport-ing events are fun places to go out and meet people while connecting to the campus in a slightly more intimate way. 
But in my limited time at UCSD, 
I’ve seen that early-season attendance usually tapers o ff, even when the play-
offs pick up and the team needs all the 
extra motivation they can get from the crowd. 
Why aren’t students continuing to 
show up a fter the first few weeks? Are 
classes too hard? Th at doesn’t stop stu-
dents at other University of California schools and at other prestigious institu-tions across the country from packing student sections full of people ready to let off some steam. Are students going 
to other events that keep their nights busy? No o ffense to the student body, 
but probably not at UCSD. 
So what’s the reason? Are students 
simply not interested in Triton sports? And is that due to a lack of awareness or a bad fan experience or even a lack of winning?
Probably neither. For every game 
where students show up in droves to RIMAC for Spirit Nights or home openers, free T-shirts are flung into 
the crowd and the Jumbotron shows fired-up fans dancing across the arena. The school is doing a good job of giv-ing people a reason to go to the game, and so are the players. UCSD’s teams are winning more now than they have in a long time. 
How do we convince students that 
these games and their fandoms are worth the time and energy though? Maybe going Division I across the board can help with this, but there still seems to be a cultural cloud hovering over sports on campus that keeps peo-
ple from showing up. 
Hopefully, a few students read this 
column, go to a game, and have an awe-
some time watching the Tritons win an overtime thriller at RIMAC Field. Or maybe they’ll head over to the pool and watch water polo continue their meteoric rise into the upper echelon of NCAA Division-I competition. 
No matter what game students see, 
they’ll get a good experience, brought to them by a large group of student-athletes, coaches, cheerleaders, band members, and more, who all want to see fans in the seats and smiles on their faces.
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu