The Cross-Cultural Center 
hosted SPIRIT, an art showcase 
featuring the work of Carmen Linares-Kalo, who is a muralist, artist, fourth-generation spiritualist and practitioner of the Uto Nahua Mexica/Aztec traditions on Thursday, Nov. 21, 2019.
Based in San Diego, Linares-Kalo has painted since the early 1990s, but it was her experience growing up with her grandmother in Mexico that impacted her art style and shaped the spiritual and personal aspects of her work. She became an artist in 
her grandmother’s garden, the 
place where Linares-Kalo says “her true heart belongs. ”
“Everything is heartfelt; I 
come from an oral tradition, ” Linares-Kalo said, explaining the delicacy behind each piece she creates. Describing herself as “guarded” about her work, Linares-Kalo was reluctant to showcase her art somewhere as public as an open university campus. 
However, Linares-Kalo was 
encouraged to bring her art by fellow peers at the CCC. Her long bond with the university Several UC San Diego bookstore student employees and staff members have come forward with allegations of management 
misconduct and a sexual harassment cover-up, which led to a student staff letter being released internally threatening a strike in September 2019. These allegations come after the Triton broke a story in October 2019 about the UCSD Bookstore Operations Manager resigning without penalty after violating the University of California Sexual Misconduct Policy.
Former Bookstore Operations Manager Alan 
Labotski had a complaint filed against him in May 2017 by a bookstore employee after it had been brought to the Office for the Prevention of Harrassment and Discrimination’s attention that a student employee had allegedly been sexually harassed by Labotski.
According to several student employees 
and staff members who spoke to the UCSD Guardian anonymously for fear of management retaliation, Thomas Bonetati, then the bookstore director and currently the director of Auxiliary Business Services in the Resource Management & Planning department, covered up the complaint against Labotski by allowing him to retire quietly without any notice to bookstore staff members or student employees. These same employees also claimed that Bonetati and Labotski were close friends.
Bonetati and the bookstore management 
conducted an internal investigation on the complaint, but most staff members and student employees were unaware as to what was taking place. Labotski was placed on leave during this time period in Fall Quarter 2017, but the nature of his absence was not relayed to staff members or student employees. According to one bookstore staff member, 
“There was concern and attempts to contact [Alan Labotski] because he had some health issues, and there was concern that that health issue or issues got worse. And the speculation went on for, I don’t know, perhaps six, eight weeks. ”
Following these staff speculations on Labotski’s 
absence, Bonetati announced in a January 2018 bookstore staff meeting that Labotski would be officially retiring March 1 but would be on vacation up until that point. There was no mention as to why he was retiring.
Labotski allegedly retired before he could face 
official termination for his sexual misconduct. 
In addition to Labotski’s departure, Bonetati, 
who reports to Vice Chancellor Gary C. Matthews, left his position as bookstore director in November 2018.
“I don’t think I would be the only one to say 
that Tom’s management style is [to] pretty much put you in your place and … not have any regards for your opinion, ” the staff member said. “There were more than one high fives, if you will, when Tom left. ”
However, Bonetati soon returned to work at 
the bookstore late Spring Quarter 2019 in an elevated position as the director of Auxiliary Business Services in the Resource Management & Planning department. 
“When he came back it was like, here we go 
again, ” the staff member said. “The morale of the bookstore is extremely low. ”
Bonetati is currently in the six-month 
probationary period for being hired on to his current position. During this time period, his performance and behavior will be assessed, which places Matthews, who oversees Resource VOLUME 53, ISSUE 9  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 25, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ART
Cross Cultural Center Hosted SPIRIT Art Showcase on Nov. 21
SPIRIT art show by Carmen Linares-Kalo centers around the traditions of Native Mexico people. // Photo by Irvin Yang
By  jacob  sutherland  and  Lara  Sanli   News Editor And Features EditorCAMPUS
Bookstore Employees Threatened Strike Over Alleged MisconductPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Starting the second 
half, the Tritons came 
out of the locker room 
with much more 
assertiveness and 
energy on both sides of 
the ball."
JESUS  IS  KING
PC  PRINCESSALBUM  REVIEW
ANTI-MetroSexualA&E,  PAGE  9
Opinion ,   Page  5
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Environmentalism 
is an act of self-
preservation, not 
charity, and until 
that is understood 
we all remain at 
risk."MONDAY
 H 65 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 53
TUESDAY
H 65 L 53
THURSDAY
H 57 L 49
CLICKBAIT....................4
BLACK FRIDAY ................4
FROZEN II........................8 
HOLIDAY RECIPES.........10
TRITON TIMEOUT...........16Lukas Makrakis
 Environmentalism
 PAGE 6Art prints, paintings, and sculptures by local Carmen Linares-Kalo were featured at this on-campus event
BY Luis  Valente
Contributing writerMEN’S BASKETBALL:
BEATING SAN MARCOS
A&E, page 9
See ARTWORK,  page 2See BOOKSTORE,  page 3
Linguistics 
Department Hosts 
Inaugural Symposium
Representatives of  tribes from 
Southern and Baja California attended
UC San Diego held its inaugural 
Symposium on Indigenous 
Language Communities of the Californias on Thursday, Nov. 21, in The Forum at Price Center. The event, co-sponsored by the UCSD department of linguistics, the Division of Global Education, the Intertribal Resource Center, the Graduate Student Association, the Division of Social Sciences, and the San Diego chapter of the Fulbright Association, included panel discussions and presentations by Native American scholars 
and community members with 
a focus on language reclamation and revitalization strategies.
Representatives from the 
Cupeño, Luiseño, and Cahuilla tribes of Southern California and the Kumeyaay tribe of both Baja California and Southern California attended. The event was inspired by the United Nations, declaring 2019 as the International Year of Indigenous Languages. 
UCSD linguistics graduate 
student and Cahuilla tribe member Raymond Huaute, who specializes in linguistic description and documentation of the Cahuilla language, noted that the event had been in the works prior to the UN’s announcement.
“There have been many 
different conferences and symposiums that are celebrating [2019 as the International Year of Indigenous Languages], but they seem to not have any specific outcomes other than acknowledging the declaration, ” 
Huaute told the UCSD Guardian. 
“We wanted to set ourselves apart ... by doing an event that had the 
goal of [achieving] deliverable 
outcomes. ”
The symposium began with 
a Kumeyaay prayer delivered by Dr. Stanley Rodriguez, a member of the Kumeyaay tribe and a UCSD Ph.D. graduate. 
“We ask that with this 
meeting that we gain power, ” Dr. Rodriguez translated. “Many of our languages are becoming like embers, which we wish to fan them like a flame again. Make [the languages] strong again. ”
Native American academic 
researchers and tribe member speakers presented research and offered their perspectives on indigenous issues at the symposium. A key focus of these presentations was on native perspectives and how native languages have evolved to their current state.LINGUISTICS
BY  TROY  Tuquero
Senior Staff writer
See LANGUAGE,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranovawhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
The same caption.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Colleen Conradi
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Linares-Kalo: “It’s a huge honor to hold and share my little ceremonies in this space with everybody”
The symposium was held in corespondence to the United Nation ’s International Y ear of  Indigenous Languages▶ ARTWORK , from page 1
▶ LANGUAGE , from page 1and the CCC also swayed her, 
as these spaces have allowed her to grow as both a UC San Diego staff member and as a person.
The center has become a 
space for Linares-Kalo to think, create, and be herself. In 1992, she performed her first blessing on the grounds of what used to be Price Center, the facility the CCC calls home. 
Linares-Kalo also recognizes 
that the land the university is 
housed on is sacred, belonging 
to the Kumeyaay Tribe that once lived there before it was dispossessed. For those reasons, Linares-Kalo feels comfortable showcasing her work on campus, as the sacred ground holds meaning that aligns with her art’s inspiration.
“I wouldn’t just do it 
anywhere, ” she said.
A number of art prints and over 20 paintings and sculptures were displayed at the reception in the CCC Artspace, with some of the pieces available for purchase. Certain paintings were priceless, with Linares-Kalo believing that some could not be sold out of respect.  
One of these paintings was 
“Xochiquetzal,” named after the Aztec goddess of love. The inspiration came from 
the September 2014 mass 
kidnapping in Iguala, where 43 
male students hoping to become teachers were abducted from the Ayotzinapa Rural Teachers’ College in Guerrero, Mexico. She was involved with a project that brought together 43 artists for each of the students that were kidnapped. As a sponsor of one of the students, she donated her 
paintings to support the parents 
of the student she sponsored and the rebuilding of the school. 
Shortly after in the spring, 
Linares-Kalo began to paint “Xochiquetzal. ” While painting, Linares-Kalo’s granddaughter asked about the student and the events that occurred in Iguala. She wanted to keep the 43 students guarded in Xochiquetzal’s carriage and it prompted Linares-Kalo to paint “43” in the goddess’s 
carriage. Linares-Kalo considers 
the carriage a safe space for 
Ayotzinapa’s missing students.
Because it was a family effort, 
“Xochiquetzal” will not be up for sale. However, every piece in the showcase has Linares-Kalo’s care and attention to detail.
“A  l o t  o f  t h e  w o r k  . . .  h e r e  
belongs to different seasons, different ceremonies, ” she said. 
“They have different prayers. 
They have different meanings. ”Linares-Kalo stated that 100 
percent of the proceeds from the event’s sales will be used to support the CCC and the Intertribal Resource Center, two campus community centers that she works with closely. 
“It’s a huge honor to hold and 
share my little ceremonies in this space with everybody [...] and I’m very happy to share those with you, ” she said.
Linares-Kalo’s artwork can be 
viewed at the CCC ArtSpace on the second floor of Price Center until the second week of Winter Quarter 2020.
The Symposium also included 
a cultural performance by bird singers from the Kumeyaay and Cahuilla tribes. The lyrics of the songs were about stories of indigenous oral history and native traditions that date back  to the pre-Columbian era.
Near the end of the event, a 
panel discussion of tribe members and scholars was moderated by Elena Hood, the director of the ITRC. The panelists included Dr. Rodriguez, Huaute, Yolanda Meza from the Kumeyaay tribe of Baja California, Diana Duro from the Cupeño tribe, and Amy Admire and Ed McEnespy from the Luiseño tribe. The panelists talked about a wide range of indigenous issues including cultural revitalization and external factors such as poverty that have impacted these efforts.San Diego County has 19 
federally-recognized Native American reservations, the most of any county in the United States. UCSD itself is built upon the lands of the indigenous Kumeyaay people.
Kumeyaay remains were 
unearthed in 1976 under the Audrey Geisel University House, the UCSD Chancellor’s private residence located on the seaside cliffs of La Jolla. There was controversy over whether to examine the remains for scientific research or to return the remains to the Kumeyaay community, and whether the federal government or tribal nations had final say on the decision. 
The event organizers 
discussed potentially hosting future symposiums in order to shine a light on indigenous issues and actions that can be done on-campus to create awareness for the student body.
Nina Hagen Kaldhol, a UCSD 
linguistics department graduate student and co-organizer of the event, said that one potential idea could be placing Kumeyaay translations of signs around campus.
“This is inspired by something 
that I saw at the University of British Columbia, ” Kaldhol said. “They have [this] with [their local language Musqueam] and it’s a very powerful thing to see all these signs everywhere in the local language. It’s a way to [show that] we are on the land of the Kumeyaay nation, and we should acknowledge that, and respect that and know what that means. ”On the same day of the 
Symposium, Thurgood Marshall College held a ceremony unveiling the new Kumeyaay community garden in front of the Thurgood Marshall Administration Building. The garden is intended “as part of building representation and community that center the Kumeyaay and the native plants that are central to their way of life. ”
Slides, photos, and videos for 
the Symposium on Indigenous Language Communities of the Californias will be made available on the department of linguistics’s website in the upcoming weeks.
FOLLOW  US  ON  FACEBOOK  FOR  MORE  BREAKING  NEWS!troy  tuquero   ttuquero@ucsd,eduLuis  valente   lvalente@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
INTO THE LIBRARY 7 
By Michi Sora
Management & Planning, in a position 
to encourage further investigation on Bonetati’s behavior. 
Several bookstore employees have 
told the Guardian about Bonetati’s management style, alleging that it comes across as inappropriate for a workplace environment. However, the concerns toward upper management were not limited to Bonetati. 
Several student employees and staff 
members expressed how various managers 
would engage in conversations with 
employees that were both unprofessional 
and inappropriate in the workplace environment, such as complaining about other managers and staff members.
“ A lot of the problems really do 
stem from a lack of communication, ” said senior Garrett Crotty, a bookstore student employee. “Not just lack of communication between student [employees] and their own bosses but 
students and all full-time staff. ”
The majority of the student staff 
collaborated to write two letters protesting 
the daily abuse of managerial power. The first letter, which was put on the desk of the bookstore’s Business Office Receptionist Gale Hill on Sept. 1, 2019, did not receive formal acknowledgement from management. 
This lack of overall change motivated 
students to write a second letter in October 2019 in hopes of improving the negative work environment and student relationships with management. 
An internal management meeting was 
held on Oct. 5, 2019 to address the second letter. Several solutions were discussed, with Interim Bookstore Director Sandie Sears and Bonetati deciding to move forward with a student employee forum to voice grievances.
Student employees were informed via 
an Oct. 15 email from Sears that she and 
Bonetati were working to address the content of the letter, and were planning 
on hosting a forum with Resource Management & Planning that would include leadership outside the bookstore.
In a follow-up email on Oct. 25, Sears 
informed student employees that private sessions with Student Employee Manager Mary Lewis and Employee Relations Specialist Supervisor Nooria Faizi would be held on Oct. 30 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m., 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m, or by appointment. Sears also mentioned that a forum was 
in the works, but no such date was ever 
disclosed.
In a Nov. 5 bookstore staff meeting, a 
staff member brought up the forum, to 
which Bonetati claimed that invitations were emailed to the student employees, but none had shown up. This surprised many of the staff members, and when several questioned him further on the matter, Bonetati became irritable and dismissive.
Sears emailed student employees on 
Nov. 20 reiterating that appointments could be made with Lewis and Faizi and that a forum would be held sometime during Winter 2020. There was no mention of a forum having previously taken place.
The Guardian obtained a copy of 
the seven-page second letter, which was ghostwritten by a student who has since left bookstore employment. It contains individual excerpts of student accounts of managerial mistreatment, discrimination, and misconduct. Some of the issues are due to the current construction in the bookstore and the fact that it has had to condense to one floor in order to make room for a Target store set to open in 2020.
The letter also asserts that the 
bookstore has no internal human resources position with the power to intervene on behalf of staff members 
and student employees with concerns. This means that management is directly 
responsible for handling employee grievances. However, several bookstore employees agreed that there is a collective fear of both retaliation and dismissiveness if any concerns or complaints are brought to upper bookstore management.
The lack of a HR position with the 
power to intervene has driven students to take action themselves by threatening formal protest if their demands are not met. They listed five options of retaliation: 
a student strike, collaboration with local 
media outlets, spreading the second 
letter to all college provosts and resident assistants, mass printing and posting of the letter on all bookstore entrances, and using social media to dissuade student interaction with the bookstore. 
“It’s your choice, ” the letter’s conclusion 
read. “Either improve your current modicums of respect WITH A FULL APOLOGY or the students will exercise 
freedom of speech rights and any media 
outlets to the fullest extent. ”
Bonetati, Sears, and Matthews did not 
respond to requests for comment from the Guardian.
As of the time of writing this article, 
no bookstore student employee or staff member strike has been reported to be in development. Likewise, Bonentati is currently in the final weeks of his probationary period for the position of the director of Auxiliary Business Services in Resource Management & Planning department. No date has been given for the upcoming student employee forum.
The letter contains student accounts of  managerial mistreatment, discrimination, and misconduct.
▶ BOOKSTORE , from page 1
news@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
It is not uncommon to be scrolling through any 
type of social media and come across countless clickbait hyperlinks. Clickbait, as defined by 
Dictionary.com, is a sensationalized headline or piece of text on the internet designed to entice people to 
follow a link to an article on another web page. The use of clickbait as a scheme to get more views is a widespread issue that should be banned on social media platforms. 
One of the first examples that come to mind when 
thinking about clickbait is on Instagram’s search page. This page allows users to scroll endlessly on pictures and videos that the Instagram algorithm has created 
for the individual user. Often, you tap on a video with an eye-catching cover photo only to be shown a video that has absolutely nothing to do with the cover photo 
itself. Not only is this an inconvenience to the viewer, 
but this also creates a sense of distrust between the viewer and the uploader.
Clickbait can be seen as a harmless ploy to rack up 
more views, but in more severe cases, clickbait has been proven to be tied to the spread of fake news. Fake news is defined as “news articles that are intentionally and verifiably false designed to manipulate people’s perceptions of real facts, events, and statements.” Essentially, clickbait is used to make fake news go viral. This can lead to misinformation, confusion, and can potentially influence popular perception on a specific issue. New studies also show that fake news not only leads people to believe false accusations but also makes individuals less likely to consume or accept information. This presents a unique issue, as audiences are made increasingly unlikely to believe information whether it be fake or trustworthy, creating an uninformed society. This becomes not only a personal inconvenience but also a nationwide threat that can and has affected political stances. Thus, it is important for social media platforms to ban clickbait from their platforms.
During the 2016 presidential election, more than 
half of U.S. adults agreed that fake news causes deep confusion. In fact, during the 2016 election period, nearly one-in-three U.S. adults said they often saw fake political news online. 
Now, as the primary elections arise, more 
politically charged articles circulate through social media platforms. It is important to be able to avoid fake news and not fall into clickbait traps. This means not clicking on the first catchy article that crosses the screen, but rather, gathering information from credible news sites. The easiest way to not fall for fake news is to fact-check by evaluating other credible sites to get a fuller understanding on the news being presented. 
While fake news and clickbait can be seen as 
detrimental to society and a national security issue, some may argue that clickbait should be protected under free speech. More specifically, individuals argue that fake news and clickbait should not be banned on social media platforms since the U.S. Constitution, and thus American values, protect this speech. 
Unsurprisingly, social media platforms like 
Facebook have opposed restricting clickbait and fake news due to issues regarding free speech. Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, says Facebook will not police political speech, because it impinges on freedom of speech. Zuckerberg holds a strong belief that Facebook must continue to stand for free expression. Many, however, argue that Zuckerberg’s firm belief in freedom of expression has resulted in detrimental effects such as long-term damage to our democracy as fake news has left Americans confused about basic facts.  Yet, these sources fail to see that the intention of censoring of clickbait and fake news is not to ban controversial ideas and topics, but rather to protect viewers from false information. This not only creates a sense of reliability between social media users and uploaders on social media platforms but a better-informed society. Thus, the freedom to express ideas should still be permitted on social media platforms as long as they are based on factual information. 
While freedom of speech is necessary for protecting 
contrasting ideas, there should be restrictions on social media platforms in regards to clickbait and fake news. Removing clickbait and fake news not only prevents 
the potential spread of fake news and protects viewers 
from false information, but also provides a more transparent, trustworthy social media platform. 
By: Julia Nee  //  Contributing WriterWhy  Social Media Companies 
Should Ban Clickbait
Say No to Black Friday
For some, the last Thursday of November marks a day 
of gratitude and love, but for many, this day has come to 
represent something different: a day of insane shopping 
deals. Many consider Black Friday to be one of the best days of the year to go shopping, as businesses across 
America run extreme sales and make insane profits as a 
result. According to a study run by Snapchat, about 70 percent of Generation Z users plan to shop on Black Friday this year, and most are expected to spend around $250 during the sale. 
As a fellow broke college student, I more than 
understand the appeal of bargain hunting, especially 
during the holidays as there are always so many gifts to 
buy for people. But at what cost? 
In recent years, large stores, like Walmart and Best 
Buy, have begun starting their Black Friday sales on Thanksgiving night, thus dragging those in search of a good deal away from their loved ones on the holiday and 
towards overcrowded stores. Rather than leaning into 
the corporate manipulation that fuels early Black Friday sales, however, people should spend Thanksgiving getting thanks and in turn relieve retail workers from the burden 
of working when they could be spending time with their 
loved ones.
Undoubtedly Thanksgiving itself was built upon 
problematic values. Thanksgiving actually marked the begining of the genocide of millions of Native Americans due to  colonialism. Despite this history, the holiday 
now focuses on fostering the values of  togetherness and 
gratitude, and it is important that these values remain intact despite Black Friday so that we are able to take a moment to ground ourselves. Time is rare, and as busy 
college students, it’s important to make the most of that 
time. More importantly, spending time with loved ones or showing gratitude in some way on Thanksgiving, 
rather than shopping, also takes the pressure off of retail 
workers who are forced to work the holiday.
The recent shift to having Thanksgiving day sales 
has exploited retail workers who need the money and job no choice but to spend the day at work. While some major retailers, such as Costco and T.J. Maxx, have started closing on Thanksgiving in order to allow their 
employees more time to celebrate, the list of stores 
starting to open earlier on Thanksgiving day seems to keep growing. 
This is in part due to increasing corporate manipulation 
and greed, both of which ironically undermine the societally adopted “values” of modern Thanksgiving. 
According to Business Insider, companies make the 
conscious decision to begin their sales earlier, praying on consumer anxieties of missing out on deals. A Wall Street Journal study even found that many stores mark up the 
regular price of an item a few weeks prior to the sales so 
that the sale price seems more discounted to customers. 
In doing so, these companies are pulling in more 
customers and as a result require more workers to run the stores. These companies fail to take into consideration the plight of workers on Thanksgiving, and many force 
employees into working the holiday. This gross display 
of greed is the reason why many people from low socioeconomic backgrounds are unable to celebrate Thanksgiving with those they love, as they need the 
money and can’t afford to take a day off. 
Ultimately, we should strive to avoid Thanksgiving day 
sales not only so that we can spend time with our loved 
ones, but also to support the millions of retail workers 
who are forced to spend the holiday at a cash register 
instead of with the people most important to them. By: Zara Irshad // Contributing Writer
jUlia Nee  jnee@ucsd.eduOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Zara IrshaD zirshad@ucsd.edu
ILLUSTRATION BY JESSICA NIILLUSTRATION BY JESSICA NIOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FEEDBACK FORUM
Tuesday, December 2 • 7 –9 pm
Multipurpose Room, Student Services Center, 1 st Floor
FREE FOOD!
For more information, contact AS Campus Aﬀairs at asvpcampusaﬀairs@ucsd.edu.To register:
bit.ly/ASFEEDBACK1219TOPIC: STUDENT
ORGANIZATION FUNDING
Join Associated Students and voice your opinion on student organization funding. We 
will be focused on hearing back from principle members of student organizations.THE SYNDICATE  
By Yui Kita
Last week, I was scrolling through 
Twitter, minding my own business, 
liking Ilhan Omar’s latest tweets and 
retweeting about Mercury coming out of retrograde, when I came across a tweet 
poking fun at the term “metrosexual.” 
I had not heard that word for a number 
of years, but reading the tweet brought 
forward mixed emotions from my high school years when that term was much 
more commonplace.
 “Metrosexual” is a term that 
was created in the 1990s, but that came to prominence during the mid-2010s to 
nine times out of ten refer to straight men who maintained a “more refined” or 
“urban” appearance.
This definition was put into practice 
throughout my high school five years 
ago — while I struggled with learning 
to accept my own sexuality in the face 
of a midwestern suburb known for its “family values,” a good number of my 
peers would use the term to refer to 
either certain straight men or themselves on account of dressing “gay.” Something 
about the word seemed wrong to me at 
the time, but only now upon reflecting on it half a decade later do I fully realize how problematic and offensive the word 
“metrosexual” truly is.
The problem with the term 
“metrosexual” is that it is built upon internalized homophobia. Out of fear 
of being perceived as anything other than heterosexual, many of my stylish 
straight male classmates clung to the 
made up “metrosexual” identity for fear of anyone even breathing the word “gay” 
in  reference to them. They acted like 
having folks think you are gay was the absolute worst thing in the world.
Instead of trying to defend themselves against the queer label, my peers’ efforts should have been redirected towards 
something more substantial — being a 
good ally to the LGBTQ community by helping to destigmatize identities outside 
of the cisgender, heterosexual norm 
would have been a good start.
I recognize that this term is more 
commonly used now in jest rather than in seriousness. However, it is important to 
remember the history of such phenomena 
from time to time to make sure that we do not make the same mistakes in our 
own daily lives.
Straight cisgender people, like 
anyone else, likely will encounter a moment where their sexual orientation 
or gender identity is questioned. Rather than rushing to state: “I’m not gay, I’m an ally,” what would be more supportive 
to the LGBTQ community would 
be to center the conversation around deligitimizing the stereotypes of what 
makes one queer. You don’t need to fall 
outside of the hetero-cisgender norm to be an ally, but you do need to be 
comfortable with having conversations 
on LGBTQ issues beyond defending your own non-marginalized identities. 
Jacob sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.eduPC Princess: 
The Problem with Metrosexual
By: Jacob Sutherland// News Editor6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Today’s environmentalist movement can find its roots 
within the pages of “Silent Spring, ” a 1962 book written by experienced marine biologist and zoologist Dr. Rachel 
Carson about the detrimental effects of pesticides on our planet. The book resulted in the banning of the lethal pesticide DDT and was thus seen as a great victory for the environmentalist movement during this time. Never before in the U.S. had public opinion believed so strongly that industry needed to be regulated to preserve the environment, creating what we know as environmentalism. 
Depending on context, environmentalism can hold many 
different meanings. The general definition of environmentalism is “concern about and action aimed at protecting the environment. ” While this definition is a simple one, there is a lot of ambiguity about what exactly “concern” and “action” might look like. Environmentalist action means something different to 
people in different places, and it’s important to understand that 
environmentalism is not the same everywhere you go. Therefore, environmentalism is dependent on context.
Within the broader U.S. context of environmentalism, there 
seems to be two main ways we view and act on behalf of environmentalism. Within one context, environmentalism is seen as a method to help impoverished communities that lack the resources to be environmentally sustainable on their own. Within the other — which most San Diegans are probably accustomed to — environmentalism means buying organic groceries, recycling as much as possible, driving an electric car, and overall just changing the way we consume goods to make our consumption less impactful on the environment. According to Dr. Alexander Huezo, a professor of ethnic studies and  currently teaching a course on environmental racism at UC San Diego, there is a major problem within this two-context paradigm. He labeled it as a “false dichotomy” of what environmentalism fundamentally represented. 
A significant portion of the U.S. has largely been oblivious 
to environmental racism, or “the disproportionate impact of environmental hazards on people of color. ” Environmental 
racism means that people of color often face environmental 
injustice and the more hazardous effects of environmental policy. It is not uncommon for lower-income communities of color to be located near industrial facilities and to be frequently exposed to unhealthy air pollution due to where they live. The connection between race and class in the U.S. means that not everyone has the same picture of environmentalism. 
An example of this is the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, 
which remains unresolved to this day. In 2014, it was found that the residents of Flint were being poisoned by their water supply, which contained abnormally high amounts of lead. This problem began when Flint’s drinking water source was changed from the Detroit system to the Flint River to save the county money. As a poorer community, Flint did not have the financial or political power to resist this drastic change, which resulted in the poisoning of their entire community. Even though complaints were sent by the residents of Flint, they were ignored until the community of Flint, made up of political activists, scientists, doctors, and normal citizens, broke this story. This problem is ongoing and an unfortunate example of the devastating effects of environmental racism. If the community had been more affluent, more white, or had more political power, it would have had more access to resources, in which case, this problem would have been addressed much earlier or more likely would never have occurred at all.
While it is important to understand the story of Flint to help 
ensure other communities do not suffer the same fate, it must be understood that this case study represents only a single form of environmental racism. Other forms exist in and outside the U.S. and we must be aware of this in order to identify and prevent future catastrophes. 
Environmental racism is also more complex than it may seem. 
Environmental racism overlaps with classism, gentrification, and other issues.  
“When we say environmental racism, you also have to be 
cognitive of the fact that it’s not always just, ‘the rich white people did this, ’” Huezo said. “It’s how the U.S. treats the rest of the world. It’s also how people in communities of color can abuse their own power and privilege. It needs to be problematized. I would say a potential pitfall is to see it as purely a racial thing and not see how it intersects with class, gender, and religion. There’s a potential for you to create different hierarchies instead 
of eliminating them. ” 
Environmental racism also overlaps with environmental 
gentrification. Environmental gentrification is defined as “the 
process whereby the seemingly progressive discourse of urban sustainability is used to drive up property values and displace low-income residents. ” Displacement due to gentrification has become an all-too-familiar pattern in poor and financially weaker communities. Paradoxically, wealthy people working to further “urban sustainability” by providing expensive green amenities actually does more to further environmental inequality than help it. Once poorer residents are no longer able to afford their homes due to the heightened price of living in a gentrified area, thay are driven out of their homes.
“Last week in class we were discussing green gentrification, ” 
Huezo said. “For example, they’ve had to live with pollution in their town, and now that you’ve improved it, they won’t be able to afford it anymore. ”
In fact, green gentrification is occurring presently in San 
Diego. From February to March 2019 the UCSD University Art Gallery featured the exhibit, “Reclaim! Remain! Rebuild! Posters on Affordable Housing, Gentrification, and Resistance. ” On the opening night, Feb. 7, of the exhibit, keynote speakers San Diego City Council President Georgette Gomez and Dr. Eric Avila, the UC Los Angeles César E. Chávez department of Chicana and Chicano studies chair, spoke about San Diego’s past and present gentrification problem. Gentrified communities, such as North Park, and rebuilding projects in City Heights serve as perfect examples of the devastating effects of gentrification. Of course, cleaning up neighborhoods, cleaning up water lines, and creating a healthier, more sustainable environment on its own is not a bad thing. The underlying problem is the fact that once these changes occur, the original residents that lived there can no longer afford it. This forces displacement and the movement  
A  Disposable  Cul ture:  The  
Environmentalist  Problem
The meaning of “environmentalism” is dependent on context, but it is important to realize that environmentalism 
intersects with race, class, politics, and gender.
By lukas  makrakis    Contributing writer
See ENVIRONMENT,  page 7
Disposable plates and utensils provide convenience at the cost of enviornmental health.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
As our climate crisis becomes increasingly urgent, it is important for environmental issues to be at the forefront of the cultural consciousness.ART COURTESY OF ALEX LIANGART COURTESY OF ALEX LIANG
of poor communities and is a discriminatory consequence of 
environmentalism.
 “[Classist environmentalism] isn’t new at all … , ” Avila said. 
“ A lot of these environmental discourses erase people. ” 
Unequal environmentalism can also play out on an 
international scale. Garbage collection in the U.S. is the perfect example. The U.S. is an incredibly wasteful country, but as a society we are lucky enough that we rarely deal with the repercussions of our own trash. Once the garbage is picked up or brought to the dump, we don’t have to worry about it anymore. This privilege only exists because, for decades, other countries have been buying our waste, most notably China. But as China’s economy and world 
position has grown, they no 
longer need the capital that buying our garbage provides. Recently as of last March, China announced they would no longer be buying our waste. But in the U.S., large amounts of people still have their trash picked up every week. Cities aren’t drowning in their own garbage, so what happened? Simply put, the U.S. just began selling our waste to other countries like Vietnam and Malaysia, creating a short-term, unsustainable solution to the problem.
Environmentalism also has political repercussions. A 
political repercussion was felt across the world in 2017 when President Trump announced that the U.S. would be leaving the Paris Agreement. Many claim that Trump’s reasoning for leaving the agreement was purely political, but this just reinforces the idea that environmentalism is a political issue instead of one that affects everyone. Because this issue is not agreed upon across both sides of the aisle in Washington D.C., it puts us all at risk. Even though the announcement was a 
little over two years ago, President Trump was not allowed to 
officially start the U.S. ’s exit on the agreement until Nov. 4 of this year. But on Nov. 4, formal procedures for U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement officially began, making the U.S. the only country to have left the agreement.     
Environmentalism, with all its different contexts, can be 
approached in many different ways. Huezo emphasized that the question of combating environmental injustice has no single, correct answer. It is important, he argued, to have the motivation to ask questions about environmental injustice, even if a perfect solution isn’t readily available. 
“To do nothing would be just as foolish, ” Huezo said. “What 
we need to do is to keep an open mind and communicate with 
one another. It’s not a one-size-fits-all situation, and the first step is realizing that. ” 
He stated, “The key piece 
to [environmentalism] is to not see nature as something 
separate from this room or 
right outside. If people see environmentalism in some far off rainforest or some turtle that needs to be saved, then they are avoiding the reality that their own habits 
contribute to climate change. ”
Environmentalism is an act of self-preservation, not charity, 
and until that is understood we all remain at risk.
Environmentalism is not simple. The first step is to come 
to terms with the fact that the environment and humanity are not separate entities, and to understand that it’s going to take a whole lot more than us all having electric cars to fix the climate crisis we face. It needs to begin with us communicating and discussing with one another the problems we see and face in our communities. And together we can tackle these problems. 
As a potential way to move forward in combating green 
gentrification, Huezo said, “The key is always including people in the conversation and making sure they have some kind of agency in the conversation. ”
 
“Environmentalism is an 
act of self-preservation, 
not charity, and until 
that is understood we all 
remain at risk.”▶ ENVIRONMENT , from page 6
Appl y to  be A 
Features Writer at 
ucsdguardian.orgA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Frozen II doesn’t quite reach the heights of its predecessor, but it still manages to tell a moving, lushly beautiful story for children and adults alike.
“The Lighthouse, ” is a maritime fever dream filled with mermaid sex and forbidden twinkling lights. It’s difficult to believe that “Frozen, ” the 
Walt Disney C o.’s massively successful 
monster of a movie, came out over 
six years ago. Six years ago, the world was introduced to Queen Elsa and Princess Anna 
for the first time. Six years ago, little girls and 
boys refused to stop screeching “Let it Go” 
to their tired parents in cars. Six years ago, Disney made a massive, massive amount of 
money, and frankly, continues to. 
When the sequel was first announced, 
some fans rejoiced, and some fans considered 
it another nostalgic Disney cash grab. It 
made financial sense to make a sequel; the 
first “Frozen” made over a billion dollars at the box office and was the highest-grossing 
animated movie, until it was dethroned by 
“The Lion King” remake this year, and those 
box office numbers aren’t even counting the 
money gained from selling toys, costumes, 
and other merchandise. There is certainly 
something frustrating about Disney’s constant reliance on remakes and sequels 
rather than new original content, but it 
doesn’t change the fact that millions upon millions of children, teens, adults, and elderly are going to go see “Frozen II” in 
theatres in the next few months, whether it’s 
good or not. The question remains, though. 
Is “Frozen II” good? 
The answer is yes. Mostly. The film starts out in a sunny Arendelle 
three years after the events of the first film. 
Elsa is still a widely loved magical queen, 
Anna and Kristoff are still happily in love, 
and Olaf is still … off doing goofy Olaf 
things. Not much has changed during those 
three years; Anna and Olaf even start out 
the movie singing a cheerful duet together, 
“Some Things Never Change” (spoiler alert: things change). One day, though, Elsa starts 
hearing a mysterious singing voice that no 
one else can hear, and in her attempt to 
find it she accidentally awakens sleeping 
elemental spirits who wreak havoc on the 
kingdom. The citizens of Arendelle are 
forced to evacuate their homes, and Elsa, Anna, Kristoff, and Olaf set out to save the 
kingdom and discover the mysterious source 
of Elsa’s magic abilities. It’s true that the soundtrack of “Frozen 
II” isn’t quite as good as the first one. The 
movie’s marketing seems to be advertising 
the sequel’s song “Into the Unknown” as the 
spiritual successor of “Let it Go, ” and though 
the song is certainly enjoyable,it’s sung by 
Idina Menzel, after all, it comes too early 
in the film to have nearly the same level of emotional resonance. All I’m saying is 
if you’re walking into the theater with any 
expectations of a new “Let it Go, ” let them 
go. 
Soundtrack aside, “Frozen II” hits a sweet 
spot as a sequel, keeping fans’ most beloved 
characters while simultaneously putting a twist on setting and aesthetic. The sweeping 
icy mountains of the first film are replaced 
by the autumnal Enchanted Forest, lush 
with reds and violets and mysterious fog. 
All of this adds up to a film that feels fresh 
and exciting but keeps the themes of familial 
devotion that fans fell in love with six years ago. 
There are admittedly some problems 
with plot and pacing. “Frozen II” feels quite stuffed, filled to the brim with tangential storylines and new characters to the point 
of becoming confusing. The characters seem 
to have so many different goals when they 
ought to have just one combined goal — 
Elsa wants to find the source of her powers, 
Kristoff wants to propose to Anna, Olaf 
wants to keep his friends together, and Anna wants to save Arendelle from doom. It seems 
a bit of a coincidence when all these parallel 
storylines are resolved at the end at the same 
time. Despite all these problems, though, 
Anna and Elsa’s relationship remains the 
emotional core throughout the film, and the 
story is filled with enough love to make your heart melt. Fans of the original will likely 
forgive the somewhat bloated plot in the face 
of the film’s enduring sincerity.
Did we really need a sequel to the 
critically acclaimed first film? Probably not. 
Did I enjoy the sequel anyway? Absolutely.
—  TANYA  nguyen 
Senior Staff Writer
“The Lighthouse'' is a psychological 
horror film directed and 
produced by Robert Eggers, 
his second film following his directorial debut “The Witch. ” “The Lighthouse” had its 
world premiere at the Cannes Film Festival 
earlier this year and received high praise 
from critics highlighting the career-defining performance from Robert Pattinson and the 
equally riveting performance from Willem 
Dafoe. 
The film is set in the 1890s on a remote 
island in New England and follows two 
lighthouse keepers and their tumultuous and 
feverous descent into madness. The film was shot in black and white with 35 mm film and 
a 1.19:1 aspect ratio, evoking an aesthetic 
remnant of 19th-century photography. The 
expressionist lighting and honed-in framing 
of shots were accompanied by a haunting 
soundtrack of wailing ocean sounds and 
foghorns, adding to the claustrophobia that the two characters feel after spending an 
indefinite amount of time with one another.
The film begins with Ephraim Winslow 
(Robert Pattinson) arriving on a small island 
where he meets Thomas Wake (Willem Dafoe). Winslow is tasked with helping man 
the lighthouse alongside Wake. The film 
chronicles their time on the island and 
we soon learn that they are incompatible, 
which lends to the tension and chaos that 
inevitably unfolds as they work together on 
this desolate island. Wake is the veteran keeper of the 
lighthouse. He is a stickler for tradition and 
rules, delegating the strenuous and menial 
tasks onto Winslow, which Winslow soon 
begins to hate doing. Winslow begins to 
resent Wake, and their antagonism is further 
fueled due to boredom of being on the island 
and fundamental personality differences. Wake is ver y animated and chaotic. Wake’s 
thick Northeastern accent makes what 
he says almost incomprehensible, like a 
drunken pirate bellowing every sentence. 
When Wake and Winslow eat dinner 
together, Wake delves into storytelling about 
his time as a sailor or other folkloric tales of mermaids and sea creatures. He begins to 
aggravate Winslow who is more concerned 
with getting his job done and getting paid 
rather than bonding with Wake. Winslow 
has to tolerate Wake’s terrible cooking, 
farting, and general lack of hygiene while 
trying to maintain some distance from him for the sake of his own sanity. 
The film touches upon themes of 
masculinity as shown through Winslow 
and Wake’s continual bickering and fighting 
over whether Winslow is doing his job correctly or not. Wake is constantly barking 
orders at Winslow and at times is verbally 
abusive. Winslow constantly challenges 
Wake’s authority, tr ying to undermine him. 
Winslow oversees the daytime tasks while 
Wake oversees the night shift. Wake guards 
the key to the lantern room, a glowing beacon of mystery to which Winslow is banned from entering. Their adversarial 
chemistry is fueled by the inequity of power 
that exists between them. Wake effectively 
owns Winslow’s labor and has no real respect 
for him, causing Winslow’s morose affect 
toward Wake to grow increasingly worse. 
One night, Winslow follows Wake to the lighthouse and watches Wake strip naked as 
if to bathe in its light. The mysticality of the 
light and its morbidness further intrigues 
Winslow as it becomes his sole goal to be 
able to see the light himself. He becomes 
enamored with the light and begins having 
hallucinations about the lighthouse and the stories of mermaids Wake had shared during 
their late-night talks. These hallucinations 
were vivid and often occurred when he 
was completing his daily tasks or while he 
was asleep. His repressed sexuality manifests 
throughout these hallucinations, often times 
participating in sexual acts with the mermaid or sexual acts as he basks in the glory of the 
lighthouse light. 
Winslow’s irritation with Wake grows 
deeper every night and their dwindling 
existentialism ensues as days blur together and the nights are filled with drunken 
rapport. Winslow becomes unhinged, and 
a toxic blend of rage, alcohol, and loneliness 
leads to intimate yet depraved moments 
between the two. Each night, the two share 
moments of harmony, singing gibberish, 
dancing, and laughing with one another, but often turn swiftly into argumentative banter or a physical tussle. 
When tensions are at their peak, a storm 
strikes the island the day they are meant 
to leave and they are physically trapped on 
the island with no freedom in sight. Their 
further descent into madness is expedited 
with lack of food and lack of sunlight to keep track of time. 
Dafoe and Pattinson’s performances 
are chilling, showcasing the mental spiral 
that one can face when hardships meet 
hallucinations. Although this film has been 
described as a horror film, it expounds 
upon multiple genres from drama, thriller, and even humor as a way to mitigate the 
venomous tension and hostility between 
the characters. The meaning of the film is 
at times hard to decipher. On the surface, it 
is the story of two men living on a rock but 
it also touches on themes of masculinity, 
fantasy, Greek mythology, nature, and more. But what makes it so intriguing and 
darkly exciting is the cinematography that 
transports you to this eerie and depressing 
lighthouse. “The Lighthouse'' is a strange, 
mesmerizing, cruel, and ambiguous journey that will leave you as mad as the characters.
—  Julianna  Covarrubias 
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWFROZEN  IIFROZEN  II
The  LightHouseThe  LightHousePHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDBPHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Created by   Chris Buck and Jennifer Lee
Starring  Idina Menzel, Kristen Bell, Jonathan Groff , Josh Gad
Release Date  November 22, 2019
Rating  PG
Directed By   Robert Eggers
Starring  Robert Pattinson, Willem Dafoe
Release Date  October 18, 2019
Rating  RCB+
CA-A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ALBUM  REVIEW
Finally, Kanye West released 
his greatly anticipated album “Jesus is King. ” Keeping true to 
his reputation, West failed to meet the initial Sept. 27 album release deadline announced by his wife Kim Kardashian via Twitter. After a long period of silence, the new release date was set at 12 a.m., on Oct. 25. Fans like myself stayed awake in anticipation, constantly refreshing our streaming platforms, but were once again disappointed. West addressed his anxious followers in a tweet, thanking them “for being loyal & patient, ” explaining that he and his team were “specifically fixing mixes on ‘Everything We Need, ’ ‘Follow 
God, ’ & ‘Water, ’” and finally promising, 
“we not going to sleep until this album is out!” 
Throughout the night, increasingly 
impatient fans began to analyze his notoriously unpredictable behavior, speculating whether or not the album would truly be finalized. West himself has addressed the recent changes to his persona, attributing it to a religious transformation of both his personal and professional life. In a controversial appearance on “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” he ranted, “I just feel like I went through this transition from being a rapper, like, looking at all these girls and looking at my wife like, ‘Oh, my girl needs to be just like the other girls showing her body off, showing this, showing that. ’ I didn’t realize it was affecting, like, my soul and my spirit. ” The newly religious rapper, who once had his wife star completely nude in his infamous music video for “Bound 2, ” now claims that he has seen the light.
Apparently, to West, this newfound 
piety also means a newfound advocacy for misogyny, which is blatantly apparent in “Jesus is King. ” Perhaps he and his team should have further delayed the album release; despite his claims of “specifically fixing” tracks such as “Water, ” West somehow overlooked the anti-feminism 
within his lyrics, and for some reason 
thought it was okay to rhyme “Chick-fil-A ” with “Chick-fil-A. ” 
The album does begin with a cheerful 
piece sung by a gospel choir, and sounds as if it were pulled directly from one of West’s highly popularized Sunday services. “Every Hour” is inspired by the Gospel hymn “Sing ‘til the Power of the Lord Comes Down, ” and the two share similar if not identical lyrics. This introduction to his ninth album sets an unprecedented religious tone, which remains unmistakable throughout the rest of the work. 
However, as the album continues, West’s 
overall message becomes clouded, as his lyrics grow increasingly contradictory. In the next track, “Selah, ” he repeatedly references Biblical verses, such as John 8:33 and John 8:36, which state “We be Abraham’s seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free, ” and “If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. ” The Biblical references in his lyrics serve as an unfortunate reminder of his controversial remarks on TMZ, where he claimed that slavery was a choice. Despite his declaration of undergoing a religious transformation, the outspoken rapper still seems to be making the same outrageous claims but is now attempting 
to distract listeners from his problematic 
lyrics by including a gospel choir singing the word “hallelujah” forty-one times. 
Arguably, the most questionable track 
of “Jesus is King” is “Water” — its alleged “fixing” one of the stated reasons for the album’s delayed release. The chorus is made up of the lyrics “we are water, pure as water, like a newborn daughter. ” What exactly is so “pure” about a newborn daughter, in comparison to a newborn son? The misogynistic undertones aren’t subtle in this piece, and its lyrics appear to support the idea that young girls, like West’s daughters, are only considered “pure” by society so long as they remain virgins. This piece, which clocks in at a mere two minutes and 48 seconds, resembles a prayer, pleading for Jesus to “heal the bruises … clean the music” and “give us strength. ” These lyrics follow West’s recent dismissal of the rap genre as being “the devil’s music, ” despite his countless hits in which he glorifies strippers, drug use, premarital sex, adultery, etc. His previous praise for a sinful lifestyle is undeniable, yet he now begs for cleaner music, even though he had just called on us to “pour the lean out slower” in the aforementioned song, “Selah. ” In yet another verse from this contradictory album, in the piece titled “Hands On, ” he exclaims that there is 
“nothing worse than a hypocrite. ” 
Okay, Kanye. 
Despite his many claims that he is a 
newly transformed and devout Christian, it appears as though West still holds the same controversial and detrimental beliefs. In “Jesus is King, ” he vents about personal issues, using religion as a tool to simply hide his radical misogynistic views behind energetic beats, powerful drums, and a gospel choir.
—  Camila  morales
 Contributing WriterJesus  is  king
by  kanye  west
Release Date  October 25, 2019
CKanye West's latest album is far from a religious experience.10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Lifestyle's Holiday Recipe Cards
by Carla Altomare, Colleen Conradi, and Annika Olives
My favorite recipe for Thanksgiving is an 
appetizer that I have been making for years. I 
probably found the original recipe online, but 
I memorized it and tweaked some things. Y ou will need a few French baguettes, a bag of frozen 
spinach, diced red onions, diced tomatoes, feta 
cheese, about a half of a cup of sour cream, 
salt, pepper, and dill. This recipe is not only 
delicious, but simple. All you need to do it 
cut up the baguettes and bake the small slices 
for three to four minutes until they are a little 
browned. Then, cook the spinach and mix all of 
the other ingredients into it. Place a tablespoon 
of the mixture on top of each piece of bread. Then put it back in the oven on broil for a few 
minutes until the topping is warm. It is the best 
appetizer!PHOTO  COURTESY OF  TASTE BY HOMEPHOTO  COURTESY OF  TASTE BY HOME
Feta-Spinach Melts
Coming from a big Irish family, Irish soda bread has been 
a staple in all of our households. This recipe is one I got from 
my grandma, who got it from her mother, and so on. Every Thanksgiving my grandma makes sure to bring a loaf with 
her, especially since my sister likes to jokingly announce that if there will be no Irish bread available, she will refuse to attend. 
So in order to try it out for yourself, here’s what you’ll need: 4 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, ½ cup of 
margarine (melted), 1 cup of raisins, and 2 cups of buttermilk. First, preheat the oven to 350 F and mix the flour, baking soda, 
baking powder, and salt into a large bowl. Next, add in the eggs, sugar, margarine, and buttermilk and beat the mixture. Finally, 
stir in the raisins and you’re ready to bake! Bake for about fifty 
minutes, or until an inserted knife comes out clean. Though it 
is possible to use other types of pans, it is really meant to be 
made in a cast-iron pan, so if you own one, then use that. Once out of the oven, you can enjoy it for the rest of the day or save 
it to toast and butter in the morning for breakfast. 
Irish Soda Bread 
I am a self-proclaimed stress 
baker, so I happened upon this 
recipe a few years ago when I was 
in need of a break from studying and was wondering what to do with 
my multiple overripe bananas. It 
doesn’t call for anything spectacular, with the main ingredients being 
your pantry essentials, but it all 
comes together in this beautiful, moist bread that your roommates 
or family will be able to smell as 
soon as they step through the door. 
To make this glorious bread, 
cream together ½ cup of softened 
butter and one cup of sugar. Y ou can sub out white sugar for brown sugar 
if you like the molasses taste. Mash your bananas (I always use four), 
add 2 eggs, and mix all the wet 
ingredients together. In a separate 
bowl, sift together 1 and ½ cups 
of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon of 
baking soda, and ½ teaspoon of salt. 
Mix the wet and dry ingredients 
together — here you can add ½ 
teaspoon of vanilla extract or other add-ons, like nuts or chocolate if you’ d like! Make sure to only mix 
until combined, though; you don’t 
want to overmix. Pour mixture into a pan and bake at 350 F for 55 
minutes. Serve it for dessert as a 
perfect nightcap or have it warmed and buttered for breakfast. Banana Bread
PHOTO COURTESY  OF FOOD. PHOTO COURTESY  OF FOOD. Recipe Link 
https://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/feta-spinach-
melts/ 
Recipe Link 
https://www.food.com/recipe/best-banana-bread-2886PHOTO  COURTESY OF  EPICURIOUSPHOTO  COURTESY OF  EPICURIOUSLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
La Jolla Locals: Mysterious Galaxy
by Natalie Duprey, Lifestyle Staff Writer
When I find myself drowning in 
homework, reading is my escape from the 
stress of everyday life and I love to do so in beautiful bookstores. The feeling of curling up with a cup of hot chocolate and 
a good book next to a window on a rainy 
day is the East Coast aesthetic that I dearly 
miss. So last week when I got a frantic text 
from my dear friend about our favorite bookstore being in danger, my heart broke. Mysterious Galaxy, a local independent bookstore for over 26 years, is being forced to move and find a new owner or face closing its doors down for good. While I can’t impulse purchase a bookstore, I can share my story as a customer and that of the people who work there, in hopes of keeping the spirit of independent bookstores alive.
I first came across Mysterious Galaxy 
in my sophomore year of college during Independent Bookstore Day, a bookstore crawl to support local businesses. This delightful bookstore specializes in science 
fiction and mystery but welcomes readers 
of all genres. The beautifully curved shelves 
are packed full of new finds. I personally 
love the handwritten notes on the shelves from both the staff and visiting authors about their personal favorites. It’s such a small yet thoughtful touch that makes Mysterious Galaxy a little more cozy. They also host lots of fun events with authors who are both extremely popular or need a platform to start their career. When I went with my friend to a book signing with Lauren Shippen, I wasn’t too familiar with her work. But the staff encouraged people to ask her questions and others who attended the event welcomed me into this community. I left impressed by the genuine love shown by staff and a new series to start reading. Mysterious Galaxy has this way of bringing readers together in a way that is both unexpected and delightful.
While I am heartbroken over the news of 
possible closure, I could only imagine what it must be like for the people who work 
there. I stopped by to talk to Store Manager 
Kelly Orazi to get her perspective on what 
is happening behind the scenes. While she 
and the staff are just as upset, she still has hope that a new owner will carry on the legacy of Mysterious Galaxy. To her, what sets Mysterious Galaxy apart is not just that it’s an independent bookstore, but also the people. She said, “Before ‘Game of Thrones’ and mainstream media, it wasn’t very cool to like dragons and stuff, but places like Mysterious Galaxy provided a sense of home for those who felt they had a weird love for science fiction and fantasy. ” Orazi also loves the community that the staff has formed because, “[She has] worked at many other bookstores before but never has there been this close-knit family anywhere 
else; [they] hang out all the time even on 
weekends after work!” She and her staff are 
really dedicated to giving customers the 
best possible experience when they come in, and they love to give recommendations. The store receiver, Gary, loves helping one particular patron who comes in asking for advice on everything from Star Wars to Shakespeare. They also look forward to the events they have. Orazi’s personal favorite was when they hosted Patrick Roth, Brandon Sanderson, and Bruce Campbell all within one week. It was a time when she and her team worked so hard and successfully hosted multiple huge events. While it was stressful, Orazi and the Mysterious Galaxy staff are accustomed to this because they also organize book signings at San Diego Comic-Con. While cosplayers are mingling on the main floor, her team is behind the scenes, preparing for the hundreds of people waiting to purchase signed copies of their favorite books and comics. Mysterious Galaxy is such a success because of the people who run it.
When I asked Orazi what she wanted 
people to know about Mysterious Galaxy she said, “Y ou as a patron mean everything to us and that when you spend your money here it makes a difference; your choice is your vote. ” It’s up to us as consumers to support small businesses if we want these types of bookstores to still exist. While it is easy to choose large online retailers, think about the incredible, personalized experiences you get to have in-person at these types of stores. As students, I don’t expect you to impulse purchase a bookstore either, but definitely stop in to visit the magic that is Mysterious Galaxy before they inevitably move or possibly close. If you are looking for a great reason to stop in, this coming weekend they will be a part of Indies First & Small Business Saturday, Nov. 30, as well as a holiday party on Dec. 7. So if you love the smell of freshly printed books and the feeling of getting lost in a plot, stop by Mysterious Galaxy for a new read and possibly a new friend.
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNEPHOTO COURTESY OF THE SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  2 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Graduate school application season is 
in full swing and like many others at 
UC San Diego, I have spent the last six months of my life taking exams, asking professors for letters of recommendation, and writing personal statements. On top of that, I still had to attend lectures, submit assignments on time, and make sure that I was still showing up to all of my other commitments. All of this was extremely stressful, especially considering how competitive these graduate programs can be, and how selective they are. I’ve definitely had my fair share of panicked calls to my mother after looking at the statistics for all of the law schools I’ve 
dreamed of attending for years. Around 
two weeks ago, I finally finished my law school applications, ending this stressful season. For months, I remember wishing that this whole process could be over. But now, I realize that I have to face the most terrifying part: moving on. 
These past six months have been one of 
the most difficult periods I’ve experienced. 
While studying for the Law School 
Admissions Test, I would get excruciating headaches every time I started a timed practice test. I would break down to my mother on the phone because I was afraid that I would not do well in a class and destroy my GPA. I lost touch with a lot of my friends because I didn’t have time for them and frankly, I thought they had more important things to deal with than my stress-induced anxiety. I would cry, I would binge eat, I would occasionally stop functioning entirely and just watch TV shows because I couldn’t bring myself to stare at my applications any longer. It was hard. Yet, this idea of moving on after this is infinitely more terrifying.
I want to get into law school, begin a 
new chapter of my life, make my parents proud, and prove to myself that I’m a worthy candidate. However, now that my applications are submitted, I’ve had to ultimately come to terms with the fact that there’s nothing I can do other than hope for the best, and keep my grades up in case I have to go through this whole thing again next year. 
I’ve also realized that I want my goals 
in life to be more than just getting into law school, getting a job, and getting promotions. My life is not a series of checklists. I think it’s important to deal with stress in a healthy way, have experiences outside of your career, and genuinely enjoy life. I’ve learned that I am terrible at dealing with stress, especially when it comes to matters and decisions that are extremely important to me. However, I think that’s what application season is all about: learning about yourself, especially your weaknesses. 
There’s always room to grow, whether you 
need to work on reaching out when you need a friend, balancing your workload, or just believing in yourself. Despite our lifelong dreams and the hard work we put into our academics and extracurriculars, the ever-increasing competition makes the results unpredictable. 
Everyone wants to live a fulfilling life 
in the future, where they can manage both career-related stresses, their life at home, and still have fun once in a while. We need to be able to get through hard times like this and learn from them. After some deep self-reflection, I’ve learned that even though I believe I deserve to get into law school, things don’t always work out. Now, I’m ready to see the results, apply for jobs in case I don’t get in, and study for the LSAT again. I’m ready to move on. If that means applying all over again, then maybe that’s what’s best for me because it doesn’t matter that I need to do a million things to get into law school, I just need to learn to do those million things at my own pace. 
A Grad App Recap
by Divya Seth, Copy EditorPHOTO COURTESY OF NATUREPHOTO COURTESY OF NATURECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
FLASH FITNESS WITH BRANDON - 
RIMAC STRETCHING AREA
Empower your fitness in a flash (only 20 
minutes!) with Brandon on Tuesdays at 11am in 
RIMAC. Walk in basis, FREE, located in at the 
RIMAC stretching areas. topics include: 10/29/19 SINGLE LEG EXERCISES 11/5/19 COMPLETE CORE 11/12/19 SHOULDER PAIN 101 11/19/19 THE KETTLEBELL SWING 11/26/19 THE PERFECT DEADLIFT & SQUAT
12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM - GSA GRAD LOUNGE, ORIGINAL STUDENT 
CENTER
Do you want some interview experience? Do you 
want to learn about interview culture in America? Join Outreach & the Career Center for an interview workshop specifically catered towards international students to learn about tips and tricks for that perfect interview. RSVP now to secure your spot! https://forms.gle/49HS28eLqFb5649MA
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(TUE11.26 MON11.25
8am
UCSD BOOKSTORE ANNUAL 
HOLIDAY SALE - UCSD BOOKSTORE
UCSD Bookstore Annual Holiday Sale November 
25 - December 20 Savings of 25-50% Off 
Contact: marketing@bookstore.ucsd.edu 
Website: 
https://ucsandiegobookstore.com/Images/Event
s/HolidaySale/HolidaySaleInfo.png
10am
DESTRESS MONDAY - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
DeStress Mondays....ahhh, Mondays.... Mondays 
can be stressful, so start your week on a high 
note with FREE tea and snacks! Come destress 
with us EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Time: 
10:00 AM to 1:00 PM Location: Price Center 
Commuter Lounge FREE for UCSD Students w/ 
ID
12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS -CULTURAL 
CENTER
An informal drop- in group designed for Asian 
American students to discuss topics relevant to 
their experiences in a supportive environment. 
Bring your lunch and join us! Contact: 
Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408
1pm
POLITICAL CLIMATE AND 
COMMUNITY IMPACT: CASE 
STUDIES - CROSS CULTURAL 
CENTER
A glance and interactive discussion on political 
policies that affect particularly vulnerable 
communities. Topics may include immigration, 
technology, healthcare, toxic masculinity, pop 
culture. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://getinvolved.ucsd.edu/ccl/leadership.ht
ml9pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM'S SEAS N 
GREETINGS - BIRCH AQUARIUM AT 
SCRIPPS
Deck the Hall (of Fishes) and get into the holiday 
spirit at Birch Aquarium. Enjoy holiday 
decorations throughout the aquarium, and don't 
miss Scuba Santa during special dive shows. Holiday activities are included with admission and free for members. See the full schedule of activities, Scuba Santa appearances, and more at aquarium.ucsd.edu.
Contact: aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu 8585343474 
Website: 
https://aquarium.ucsd.edu/experiences/events/se
as-n-greetingsSUN12.01FRI11.29
3pm
RELAXATION SKILLS - CAPS 
CENTRAL OFFICE, 190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of 
basic relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
WED11.27
2pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN, DE -STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management. Come to The Zone for a one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. And if you have time, get a free de-stress massage from the R&R Squad too! Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
NOV 25 - DEC 1
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
THANKSGIVINGCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKUCARS
2020 Chevrolet Colorado Work Truck-2020 
Chevrolet Colorado, 4D Crew Cab, Recent 
Arrival! ***TOUCHSCREEN***, ***MEDIA 
HUB***, ***APPLE CARPLAY/ANDROID 
AUTO***, *** WI-FI ***, ***BLUETOOTH FOR PHONE w/ STREAMING***, ***REAR 
BACKUP CAMERA***, 6-Speaker Audio 
System Feature, Am-fm radio, Body-Color 
Door Handles, Chrome Beltline Moldings, 
Electronic Automatic Cruise Control, Extended Range Remote Remote keyless 
entry, Exterior Parking Camera Rear, EZ-Lift 
& Lower Tailgate, Front & Rear….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
2019 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 hd - As 
your premier New car dealer in San Diego County, Courtesy Chevrolet has a large inventory of New cars, trucks, and SUVs. With special finance rates and finance plans available, we make every effort to get customers into a discounted New vehicle for the lowest payment possible. Plus, if you have a trade-in, we can beat CarMax on its value. All pre-owned cars purchased from Courtesy Chevrolet have lifetime free refills of nitrogen for $199, 3M door and….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2011 Honda Insight Base 4dr Hatchback 
- Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean youll never have to haggle and you can con -
centrate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT and MN; 90-Day in MA, NY, and NJ). See our store ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Nirve 20” bmx bike/ super clean/ tuned excellent - Up for sale is a rebuilt and very clean 20” Nirve bmx bike. The bicycle has been completely rebuilt with fresh 
Maxima grease, with some upgraded 
parts. Such as the new Wellgo chrome 
pedals, new brake cable, new grips, chain tension-er, new chain, etc. This bike is best ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
57cm Giant ‘Rs940’ 12 speed road bike 
- Giant RS940, size 57 cm (c-c) - large. 
Lightweight 4130 Cr-Mo triple butted 
frame and fork. All original Japanese made Shimano twelve speed indexed gearing, 
caliper brakes, 700 c Araya wheels, and SR pedals with Giant clips ….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
55cm Centurion ‘Dave Scott Iron Man 
Expert’ 12 speed road bike - 55 cm (M/L) Centurion ‘Dave Scott Expert’ twelve speed road bike. All original equipment: Wolber (France) rims/ 105 hubs, ‘Centurion’ sad-dle by Vetta, Shimano 105 cranks, brakes, levers, and derailleurs, and ….  ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds for more information
FULL-TIME JOBS
Amazon Delivery Driver - We are currently hiring for Full-time Driver Associates with AMAZON in two of our Amazon Hub loca -
tions: Rancho Bernardo and National City. 
If you enjoy working in an independent, 
fast-paced working environment with potential advancement opportunities, our Driver Associate position may be the per -fect ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Outside Sales Representative - Symmetry 
Financial Group is seeking motivated, 
career-minded individuals to join our team, helping American families protect their homes. We are currently looking for 
representatives ranging from entry level 
to experienced professionals seeking a different, more rewarding career and….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Customer Service Representative - Meet 
, Greet, and Survey retail customer about 
their water quality while they shop in 
the store. This is a great opportunity for 
a mature and friendly person who enjoys 
talking and meeting with people. Part time 
and Full time positions are available. We 
are int the process of expanding our local office. This is an entry level….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
Across
1 Place for papers
 11 Caesar’s partner
 15 Pharmacist
 16 Son of Judah
 17 Ballet turns
 18 Flat fee?
 19 Get a whiff of
 20 Livestock tidbit
 21 Summon to court
 22 Sicilian volcano
 25 Tuneful
 27 Chandler novel, with “The”
 31 Team spirit
 32 Boston hockey great
 33 __ Rice Burroughs
 35 Blanched
 36 Abbr. on folk music
 38 Ab exercise
 40 Section of a basilica
 41 Silent
 43 Steps over a fence
 45 “One Flew over the Cuckoo’s Nest” 
writer Kesey
 46 Black Sea port
 48 Unskilled
 50 Mail by mistake
 52 Gratify completely
 53 Masculine
 54 Practical joke 56 Of the kidneys
 60 Of the ear
 61 Disembowel
 64 Offshoot group
 65 Facial features 66 Clucking sounds
 67 Took the first stepDown
1 Catches forty winks
 2 Heroic in scope
 3 Had on
 4 Rocks
 5 Airport connector
 6 PGA peg
 7 Put on a performance
 8 W. alliance
 9 Kind of team or boat
 10 Methodology
 11 Washington D.C. art gallery
 12 Body of water near Syracuse
 13 Type of bridge
 14 Cause
 23 Beatty and Buntline
 24 Sponsorship
 26 Hang in loose folds
 27 Lowest
 28 Casts light upon
 29 Jefferson Airplane singer
 30 Page or LaBelle
 34 Spoils
 37 Examines in minute detail
 39 Not guilty or guilty 42 Half a fly?
 44 Off the charts
 47 Anaheim baseball team
 49 Gazed intently
 51 Shipboard crane 55 Gershon of “Bound”
 57 One-billionth: pref.
 58 Westernmost of the Aleutian Islands
 59 For fear that
 62 Sun. speech 63 Garfield or Felix
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
FALL 2019
to.ucsd.edu
TRITON OUTFITTERS LA JOLLA DREAMS
SHOP NOW • to.ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF EMILY MCGINNISPHOTO COURTESY OF EMILY MCGINNISMen’s Team Stays Hot 
Against San Marcos in 
CCAA Home Opener
The No. 4 UC San Diego 
Tritons men’s basketball team 
came out of the gate ready to go against the California State University, San Marcos Cougars this past Friday. With three di fferent starters 
connecting from long range and redshirt senior center Chris Hansen’s menacing play inside the paint, the Tritons built a 32–13 lead early on. Redshirt junior guard Mikey Howell, a San Marcos native, facilitated the Tritons’ o ffense in the 
first half, notching 5 assists 
and constantly finding 
teammates for easy buckets. The second half was a lot of 
the same for the Tritons as they won the game 81–54, pushing the team’s record to 5–0 on the year.
After a late surge by the 
Cougars to end the first half 
that cut the lead to just nine points, UCSD head Coach Eric Olen urged his team to clean up their defense by trying to “contain their penetration” to the rim. He also noted that the Cougars scored 22 of their 25 first-
half points in the paint and that “controlling the ball would make it harder for them to score. ” 
Starting the second half, 
the Tritons came out of the locker room with much more assertiveness and energy on both sides of the ball. And just as Olen called for, the Cougars were limited to just 12 points in the paint and a 39-percent field goal 
percentage in the second 
half. Hansen tallied a game-
high 17 points and added 8 boards, while redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts also contributed 13 points and 2 steals, including a 3–7 line from three-point range. 
With a perfect start to the 
season so far, Olen said that going forward, execution and consistency are still some little things where this Tritons team can improve upon. Since the Tritons have a bunch of talent, Olen said sometimes they can “get away with not having perfect execution because they make 
a tough shot or make a play 
for each other. ” 
UCSD will look to improve 
upon these details when they travel up to California State University, San Bernardino to take on the 3–3 Coyotes this Sunday to kick o ff their 
three-game road trip. 
Ha yden Wellbeloved  hwelbel@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Minnesota State-Moorhead 
in Honolulu, HI vs Holy Names NDNU Thanksgiving Classic in Belmont, CAUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Basketball
M Basketball11AM
5PM11/29
11/19
Postseason elimination 
games provide some of 
the most intense moments players will face in their entire careers. Each moment literally de fines a season. 
Undefeated teams and scrappy underdogs find 
themselves on equal footing in these situations despite vastly di fferent regular season 
performances. Sometimes the better team wins, and sometimes the team that has faced more adversity and more tough losses has a better 
shot at dealing with this sort 
of pressure. 
As the visiting Point Loma 
Nazarene University Sea Lions shut out the hosting UC San Diego Tritons 1–0 in the second round of the NCAA West Regional on Saturday, Nov. 23, a crowd of nearly 500 fans in attendance at RIMAC Field saw that storyline play out to a tee, as PLNU gave UCSD its second loss and ended both its season and the program’s stint in NCAA Division II.
The Tritons had a chance to 
score in the 31st minute with some solid momentum and with control of the ball just outside the box. But a fter junior 
midfielder Caitlin McCarthy’s 
shot was corralled and California Collegiate Athletic Association All-Second Team redshirt freshman mid fielder Sophia 
Bruno and junior mid fielder 
Michelle Baddour were removed from the game, PLNU regained control. A fter a save on the other 
end, the Sea Lions earned a free kick just in front of mid field 
at the 29th minute by senior midfielder Abbi Swanson, 
which was knocked in during the ensuing scrum by freshman defender Chase Bibbey. 
After that goal, UCSD would 
continue to push, but turnovers and barely-missed touches kept the home team from putting the equalizer in the back of the net.
The speed of the fourth-seeded 
Sea Lions kept the top-seeded Tritons on their heels for much of the game. Streaking forwards and seemingly unbeatable defenders and mid fielders kept the Tritons 
from making many consecutive touches, which led to very few real scoring chances. All of these small victories from PLNU combined to keep the Tritons scoreless for the third time this season.
 The main problem was that the 
Tritons’ o ffense had little answer 
for the one-on-one defenders of 
the Sea Lions, who were really 
never beaten by UCSD forwards. PLNU’s own forwards, on the other hand, did a great job all afternoon in getting to the net 
and earning free kicks and corner kicks. This both limited UCSD’s 
time of possession and also got its fans into the game. For much of the game, it seemed the stands were packed with PLNU fans rather than UCSD faithful, which helped keep the Sea Lions comfortable during a tough final 
stretch of Triton o ffensive attacks.
 Overall, UCSD’s backline 
did a solid job, as the only goal came o ff a broken play. Despite 
the speed and skill of the Sea Lions’ forwards, the defense never really faltered, and the main reason for this can be 
found in a trio of redshirt seniors 
whose careers ended at the final 
horn. Mid fielder Natalie Saddic, defender Kelsey Kimball, and goalkeeper Angelica Ramos all have reached the ends of their careers at UCSD just as the program makes its transition into Division I. The trio each earned 
All-Conference First-Team honors in the CCAA, with Saddic being named Defensive Player of the Year and Ramos being named Goalkeeper of the Y ear.
 While Kimball and Saddic 
made their biggest contributions on defense, their best e fforts 
were still not enough to keep Ramos from making acrobatic diving saves throughout the entire match, including one full-extension sprawl with just a few 
seconds le ft to end her reign in 
the CCAA on a dominant note.
 With the loss, the Tritons cede their historically perfect 
record against the crosstown rival Sea Lions, and also end UCSD’s chances of ending the Division-II era with a regional crown.
 Even a fter the heartbreaking 
loss, the team’s senior leaders and head coach Kristin Jones were not ready to give up on each other. Instead, in their postgame press conference, they stressed love for one another that goes far beyond the bounds of four years playing soccer, and that’s exactly how it should be.  
 
Women’s Soccer DII Era Ends 
after Upset in West Regional
Jack Dorfman  Jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF MIKE MCGINNISPHOTO COURTESY OF MIKE MCGINNIS
Over the course of my 
maturation (which is certainly 
still ongoing), I’ve generally been the person who polishes o ff 
people’s le ftovers. Whether it’s 
cold veggies and rice, or a slice of birthday cake that is mostly colorful frosting, there is an above-average chance that I’ll finish it o ff for you. 
These last couple of years, I’ve 
decided to try and utilize this “skill” to be able to eat more food than most of the people I know through food challenges. I have tried to conquer a 4-pound 
burrito named Big Bertha; I’ve 
eaten a whole loaf of bread without water or butter in one sitting; most recently, I attempted to devour a 30-inch pizza within an hour with a friend. I’ve failed more o ften than I’ve succeeded, 
and each time I feel like I’ll never try to eat that much food ever again. 
Now that I’m done bragging, 
here are my takeaways from my few bouts with big food as an amateur eater: Competitive eating is not easy. It involves being physically able to consume large amounts of food, which involves a lot of bloating and a lot of chewing. Not everyone can do it. A fter we failed the 
pizza challenge, the restaurant consoled us by informing us that only around 2 percent of people succeed in consuming the entire pizza. 
The difficulties surrounding 
competitive eating got me thinking about sports (as pretty much everything does). Mainly, I began wondering how a sport 
gets categorized as a sport, using 
competitive eating as my test case.
Is anything that’s a competition 
essentially a sport? Is anything that’s challenging a sport? Is anything physically taxing a sport? Do all of these conditions need to be satis fied or are 
there other more important considerations?
Obviously, there are a lot of 
considerations surrounding defining something as a sport. A few weeks ago, I discussed esports and the struggle of comparing them to the more established sports that exist in the U.S., and a lot of the same problems arise with competitive eating. Both are televised and have large followings, yet both are not considered anywhere near mainstream sports. 
People who are fans of the 
major sports probably want to keep that de finition as restrictive 
as possible, and people who love these sorts of fringy sports want to expand the term to cover 
as much as possible. De fining 
an action as a sport has real 
economic impacts, as it helps it earn more media coverage (such as esports and cornhole tournaments making it onto ESPN and other major networks) which brings recognition, and with recognition comes money. 
As Bernie Sanders 
demonstrated this week, sports are important. They are drivers 
of the economy. Local teams in small towns bring fans and jobs that otherwise would not exist in the community, which helps keep small neighborhoods alive. Large franchises and professional leagues have plenty of political and economic sway, and they can provide important markers of social progress. 
For me, the answer is to 
consider more things sports. Broadening the de finition only 
means including more and more different types of people in a 
global community that could always serve to be more diverse at all levels, from the owners 
who run the teams to the athletes 
who compete to the media who cover them. As long as sports continue to bring positive things to communities and individuals, they should not be limited discursively.
Triton 
Timeout
Considering 
competitive eating 
when defining 
activities as 
sportsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu