Several students chained 
themselves to a tree in front of the 
UC San Diego Bookstore on Library W alk on May 24 in a performative demonstration to call attention to the urgency of climate change. While the purpose of the demonstration was to recruit more members to participate in future UCSD-based Extinction Rebellion demonstrations, most students walking by stopped to take pictures of the demonstration rather than joining in. 
The event, labeled simply as “Tree” 
on Facebook, included several other students holding up signs and blocking the pathway as well as one student dressed up in a dinosaur costume.
May 24 also marked the date of 
the Y outh Climate Strike, in which students around the world skipped class to pressure policymakers to address climate change. The origin of the Y outh Climate Movement is often credited to Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old Swedish student who skipped class last year to protest in front of the Riksdag, the Swedish Parliament. 
The UCSD demonstration was 
organized by Gio Tamacas, who also organized the Earth Day Climate Strike in front of Geisel Library.
“The purpose of the demonstration 
was to recruit to Extinction Rebellion and the Climate Movement, cause disruption, wake people up to impending climate catastrophe, and bring a rainbow coalition of people together around the demand for drastic climate action from the U.S. The second annual Women in Leadership event 
was hosted by Sally Ride Science @ UC San Diego was held in Price Center West on May 22, featuring a panel discussion with CEO of Girl Scouts of the USA Sylvia Acevedo, best-selling author and former first daughter Chelsea Clinton, and astrophysicist Jedidah Isler. The three women engaged in a conversation about how to empower girls and women to become future leaders.
Those unable to get a free ticket to the sold-out 
event had the opportunity to meet the panelists at a book signing at the UCSD Bookstore preceding the event. Likewise, an online livestream of the event was also made available, and free T-shirts with artwork of the United States Postal Service’s Forever stamp of Sally Ride were given out.
The event began with introductions from Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla, Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Elizabeth Simmons, Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Becky Petitt, co-founder and Executive Director of Sally Ride Science @ UC San Diego and lifelong partner of Sally Ride Tam O’Shaughnessy, and award-winning journalist and moderator Lynn Sherr.
The presenters spoke about their dedication to 
increasing diversity in science, technology, engineering, and math as well as leadership roles, touching upon topics such as marginalization, representation, and acknowledging current barriers and challenges. O’Shaughnessy and Sherr shared their personal experiences with Sally Ride, highlighting Ride’s humor, wit, and work through Sally Ride Science in bridging students to STEM education and careers. 
The conversation began with the open-ended 
question of, “ Are we approaching equality? Are we at equality?”
Isler responded by acknowledging women’s progress 
toward equality, but stated, “We are not all getting there at the same time, ” breaking down the wage gap among women of different ethnicities. In a later question about intersectionality, she cited the systems of oppression in place that made it “nearly impossible to disentangle the effect that I have on the world” as a black person and a woman. 
“Separating the two does violence to my identity, ” 
Isler said.
Then when asked, “Do you think we’re more aware of [intersectionality] today than we have been in the past?” Isler gained a round of applause when she responded without missing a beat, “Who is ‘we?’”
The three women also shared the personal obstacles 
they witnessed as women  in leadership positions. For example, Acevedo referenced a scene from the 2016 film, “Hidden Figures, ” in which the main character, a black woman working at NASA, had to use a bathroom in a separate building due to her race.
Acevedo remarked, “They at least had a bathroom. 
Y ou see, my first job as a test engineer, they didn’t even have a bathroom for me. ” She noted that she had to bike for weeks until they installed a portable bathroom for her.
Personal stories like this were told humorously by 
the panelists but reaffirmed the many obstacles they faced in becoming leaders in their fields. Acevedo described the importance of making a difference when gaining a position of power. As CEO of the Girl Scouts, she increased the salaries of almost all of her female employees in order to match that of their male counterparts. 
“One woman went from $35,000 to $105,000,” she 
said, prompting a collective gasp from the audience.
On the other hand, Lynn Sherr read aloud some 
“nasty” tweets toward Chelsea Clinton as well as Clinton’s response to them. Clinton offered some explanation for her witty yet civil replies.
“I believe that those of us with platforms have a 
responsibility to use them, ” Clinton said. “Partly to try to show — particularly girls and young women — there are other ways than ignoring the trolls that can hopefully be productive and positive and generative because we know that disproportionate amounts of online abuse targets are girls and young women. ”
Clinton continued by explaining the concept of 
“radical kindness, ” something that she finds important to uphold in this era of increased polarization.
“Radical kindness is a possibility, ” Clinton said. “We 
don’t have to be demeaned by the demeaning language that other people use towards us. We don’t have to ignore it if that doesn’t feel right or comfortable. We can respond with something that is hopefully authentic to who we are and brimming hopefully with kindness but also is not stepping back. ”
The conversation also addressed current issues, VOLUME 52, ISSUE 29  TUESDA Y , MA Y 28, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Accused of  
Cover-Up of HIV 
Study Data Breach
The study looked at how a variety 
of issues played a role in women’s committment to HIV treatment.
ACTIVISM
Students Chained to Trees in Climate Change Demonstration
A bird holds a small trinket at the Artist’s Alley at the Triton Gaming Expo  // Photo by Hannah RosenbergUC San Diego blocked researchers 
from informing participants of the 
EmPower Women study, a study looking at how women’s commitment to HIV treatment varied with their experiences, that their data had been breached. Human Immunodeficiency Virus attacks the host’s immune system and makes them more susceptible to infections and certain cancers. Official documents and correspondences uncovered by “inewsource” indicated that UCSD allegedly failed to act immediately and made it unduly difficult for researchers to contact the participants. 
Although lead researcher 
Jamila Stockman contacted UCSD administrators in October 2018 about the issue, the university has only taken action in recent weeks. The data breach revealed personal information — including names, recorded conversations and other sensitive data — of the participants to all staff of the researchers’ partner organization, Christie’s Place. 
A San Diego-based nonprofit 
organization to help women with AIDS and HIV , Christie’s Place worked with EmPower Women to recruit women to study how domestic violence, trauma, mental illness, and substance abuse played into women’s commitment to HIV treatment. EmPower researchers learned of the breach when a mental health professional at Christie’s Place informed them that the data was placed on a separate server. 
The nonprofit allegedly placed the 
participants’ information into their own database as a means to “inflate” the number of patients receiving clinical care. By increasing their number of patients, Christie’s Place could request additional service support from San Diego County. However, putting the information on this database entailed that anyone working at the organization would be able to access it. The organization has denied knowing of any breach.
“Whenever Christie’s Place 
receives a complaint, especially a complaint about confidentiality, ethics or compliance, Christie’s Place investigates the matter and, if warranted, take appropriate action, ” Interim Executive Director of Christie’s Place Ali Freedman told the UCSD Guardian in an email. “To the best of our knowledge there was no data breach, and we are cooperating with UCSD regarding the data. ”
In October, EmPower Women 
researchers contacted the UCSD Institutional Review Board which instructed them to draft a letter to inform the participants of the breach while the IRB itself would conduct an investigation. Upon further instruction from Director of the UCSD Human Research Protections Program Kip Kantelo, the researchers also had to contact administrators in the UCSD Health Compliance Advisory Services and university attorneys. 
However, in contrast to the IRB, 
the HCAS told researchers that the university was unable to investigate the breach because they lacked the jurisdiction. This began a limbo period in which researchers would email and hold back and forth meetings with university officials.
By early December 2018, Kantelo 
said he would contact the UC Office of B y  NA T ALIE  TRAN   COntributing WriterUCSD
Second Annual Women in Leadership Conference Held at UCSDPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SP ACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  P age   _
section,  P age  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  P AGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"...software developers 
and bioinformaticians 
are at the risk of 
unknowingly influencing 
these algorithms, which 
could potentially lead to a 
variety of ethical issues."
SIX  COLLEGES
GAME  OF  THRONESChanging  WorldViews
Season  8  ReviewFEA TURES,  P age   7
A&E ,   P age 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Twenty years 
later, we are 
seeing the exact 
same thing … 
It is like history 
repeating itself 
exactly and we just 
forgot about [it]."TUESDAY
 H 65 L 56
THURSDAY
H 67 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 57
FRIDAY
H 66 L 57
ABORTION ACCESS........2
SUN GOD LINEUP ............6
JOHN WICK 3..................8
AUTHORS.......................12
BASEBALL......................16RESEARCH
Bailey Davenport
Artist Interview
 PAGE 9The protest took place in alignment with the Y outh Climate Strike being held globally by students that day.
BY   m a d e l i n e  l e o n
senior staff WriterBY   A N D R E W  H A
Editorial AssistantARTIFICIAL
UNINTELLIGENCE
Opinion, page 4
See CLIMATE,  page 3 See HIV, page 3See LEADERSHIP ,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEW S
WHO’S THAT By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The California State Senate 
passed SB 24, “The College Student 
Right to Access Act, ” on May 20. SB 24 — if ultimately signed into law — would mandate that all on-campus student health centers in the California State University and the University of California system offer medication abortion, also known as the “abortion pill” by Jan. 1, 2023. Medication abortion is not currently provided at UCSD’s SHC.
Medication abortion refers 
to the usage of two medicines, mifepristone and misoprostol, to 
end a pregnancy up until 10 weeks. 
Mifepristone blocks the hormone progresterone and thereby stopping the growth of the pregnancy. Misoprostol, taken up to 24 hours after Mifepristone, causes cramping and bleeding to clear the uterus. According to Planned Parenthood, medication abortion has an effectiveness rate above 90 percent.
The bill would also authorize 
a newly-created College Student Health Center Sexual and Reproductive Health Preparation Fund to provide $200,000 grants to each university’s SHC. The grant money would be appropriated to cover the expenses of medication 
abortion readiness, including 
employee training, facility upgrades, and the maintenance of 24-hour medical support hotline for students who use medication abortion from their SHC. 
The bill, sponsored by Senator 
Connie Leyva, D - Chino, passed a full Senate floor vote along party lines with 28 Democrats in support and 10 Republicans against.
The bill’s passage in the State 
Senate comes at a time when several states, including Alabama and Ohio, have passed legislation restricting abortion in the first 
trimester. Other states are currently 
working to pass similar “fetal heartbeat” bills.
In 2017, Leyva sponsored SB 
320, a bill similar to this term’s SB 24. Then-Governor Jerry Brown vetoed the bill last year on the basis that “the services required by [the] bill are widely available off-campus” and “[SB 320] is not necessary. ” 
If SB 24 makes it through the 
legislative process in the State Assembly, the bill would then go to Governor Gavin Newsom’s desk. Newsom was a supporter of SB 320, although he has not taken a formal position on SB 24.
In a press release, Leyva said 
that “student health centers at many public universities in California already offer reproductive health services. ” She added that “the lack of access to comprehensive and accessible reproductive care can hinder the well-being and academic success of college students, ” an issue which “disproportionately [impacts] students of color and low-income students. ” Leyva also noted that SB 24 
would be symbolic of the Golden State’s support for abortion rights and expanded access.
“California continues to lead 
the nation by reaffirming the constitutional right to access abortion care without delay, including at student health centers on public university campuses, ” Leyva said. “ All Californians — including college students — 
should have access to the full range 
of choices for reproductive health care services so that they can plan their futures and achieve their personal and professional goals. ”
SB 24 was endorsed by numerous 
groups including ACCESS Women’s Health Justice, ACLU of California, California Latinas for Reproductive Justice, and NARAL Pro-Choice California. The UC 
Student Association and Cal 
State Student Association, which together represent nearly 700,000 students, has endorsed the bill. 
Senator Toni Atkins 
co-sponsored and voted for the legislation. Assemblyman Todd Gloria is expected to support the bill. UC San Diego is included in both of these San Diego lawmakers’ districts.
SB 24 is opposed by the 
California Republican Party and pro-life activist groups. The Bishop of Sacramento, Jaime Soto, released a video statement last month urging Catholics to oppose SB 24.
“The state of California should 
have no role in encouraging or funding abortions at our public universities, ” Soto said. “The womb should not become a tomb for any child anywhere in our state. Women and children deserve better. ”
UC San Diego Health declined 
to comment, directing all inquiries to the UC Office of the President since the proposed legislation would affect all UC campuses.
In an email to the UCSD 
Guardian, the UCOP Media and 
Communications Strategist Sarah 
McBride said that UCOP has not taken a position on SB 24. McBride reaffirmed that UCOP “[believes] students should have access to affordable and convenient reproductive health care of their choosing. ”
“UC student health centers 
will continue to provide students with access to comprehensive 
reproductive health services, 
including referrals to nearby facilities for abortion services when requested, ” McBride said. “UC will continue to work with policymakers to ensure accessible, quality health care for our students. ”
At the time of publication of 
this article, SB 24 awaits committee assignment in the State Assembly. All California public universities, including UCSD, would provide medication abortion through their SHC by Jan. 1, 2023 if the proposed legislation becomes law. 
BY  t r oy  t u q u e r o
Senior staff WriterCALIFORNIA
California State Senate Passes Bill to Expand Medication Abortion Access for UC Students
Senate Bill 24 comes at a time when other states, such as Ohio and Alabama, are passing increasingly restrictive laws on first-trimester abortion.
tro y tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.eduThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
That song from Ice Age (2002) fucking SLAPS.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Jacob Sutherland
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
SENIOR SEND-OFF
bear garden
JUNE 7
3-6PM
RIMAC FIELDsuch as the Alabama abortion ban, 
the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and child marriage. The panelists stressed the importance of educating young people on issues of gender and justice but also agreed it was never too early or too late to do so. Grown adults are always in the process of learning. This sentiment was echoed in questions to do with men and “anti-feminist” women, which inspired thought-provoking answers.
One question, in particular, asked, 
“Why do you think all women are not in support of all women?”
“Proximity to power, ” Isler 
explained. “The closer you are to power, the more likely you will not want to see it change. ”
During a discussion about gender dynamics in families, Sherr commented, “We used to say in the ‘70s that the best feminists were the men with daughters. ”
“But you shouldn’t have to have a 
daughter, ” Clinton argued. “I mean, it kills me every time someone says, ‘Well, as the father of a girl … ’ No, it should just be ‘as a decent human being. ’”The last part of the event included 
selected questions from the audience, such as “Looking back, what advice would you give your 20-year-old self?” to which the panelists gave personal, funny, and touching responses.
Women in Leadership concluded 
with Lynn Sherr’s summary of the conversation using quotes from the panelists. “Some good takeaways for all of us: radical kindness. Y ou’re okay. Do more. Be human. And certainly, become a Girl Scout. ”
A recording of the event can be 
viewed at sallyridescience.ucsd.edu.Government and the University. ” Tamacas told the UCSD Guardian. 
The UCSD group aligned 
themselves with the goals of Extinction Rebellion, an international organization that is most prominent in the United Kingdom. On its site, Extinction Rebellion labels itself as “an international movement that uses non-violent civil disobedience to achieve radical change in order to minimise the risk of human extinction and 
ecological collapse. ”
Extinction Rebellion was officially 
founded in October 2018 after the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change published the newest report about what would happen if the planet were to reach 1.5 degrees of warming. 
According to the IPCC Summary 
for Policymakers, a warming of 1.5 C could lead to increases in temperature extremes, higher drought risks, sea level rise and ocean acidification, as well as increased impacts on biodiversity and human-related risks. The report states, “Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5 C and increase further with 2 C. ”
At the UCSD demonstration last 
Friday, three students tied themselves to a tree in front of the Bookstore during the whole duration of the 
demonstration, which lasted between 
12 p.m. and 1 p.m. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
philosophy student Greyson Sims was one of the students chained to the tree. “This is the first among the couple of protests that we want to do to recruit and also to have a presence on campus, and also because of this, we’ll be connecting with the UCSD Board of Regents, ” Sims told the Guardian.
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Andres Gante, who was also chained to the tree, stressed the importance of making the planet a priority.
“We just want everyone to know 
that [the Earth] is a first priority, ” Gante told the Guardian. “The Earth is the first home we have. It’s what we live on. It’s something that can’t really be ignored for too long. Although we all have a uniform message of ‘yes, we want the Earth to be better, ’ you need 
to do something if you want it to be 
better. ”
Professor Adam Aron, a professor 
of psychology at UCSD, joined the students in the demonstration as he wore a T-shirt with the Extinction Rebellion logo. 
“I’m wearing the T-shirt, but I 
don’t know what it is to be part of it, ” Aron told the Guardian. “[Extinction Rebellion is] an extremely non-hierarchical organization. Anyone can be part of Extinction Rebellion if they care about this issue. I’m supporting the students because I think this is really important, and I want them to know that some professors are with them on this. ” 
The purpose of the one-hour 
demonstration was to recruit other UCSD students to form an Extinction Rebellion collective in San Diego. Although most students passed by or took pictures, several people stopped 
to ask questions.
“Turnout was anywhere from 10 
to 20 [people], which is a good start. 
But UCSD’s students need to wake 
up, ” Tamacas said. “We are a climate science pioneering school. And this is a dire situation. If we don’t wake up now, we are all [f-----]. ”
While some students were chained 
to a tree, Tamacas, who was dressed in a dinosaur costume, laid out on Library W alk next to a pool of fake blood and growled at students passing by.
“The dinosaur lying dead next to a 
pool of blood symbolizes our similar fate if we continue our catastrophic trajectory, ” Tamacas said. “Business as usual equals human extinction. The dinosaurs didn’t know what was coming. We knew climate disaster was coming — mass starvation, mass migration, and the sixth mass extinction. We have no excuse if we 
perish. ” 
In June, the University of California 
Academic Senate will meet and vote on 
the UC Board of Regents divestment 
from fossil fuels. If passed, the resolution will be taken to the UC Regents. 
the President while the IRB reiterated the importance of contacting the participants of the breach. It took another month after winter break for Kantelo to provide a plan. 
Rather than telling the participants 
of the breach, this letter would only inform them that their data would be transferred to a different database. In essence, the lawyers, HCAS, and IRB told the researchers to omit any mention of a breach. 
The researchers asked for a justification of the omittance, but Kantelo failed to respond to any of their requests. They also requested for the HRPP to provide an official statement to explain their actions. “Inewsource” reached out to the university to try to get that justification. 
“ Although IRB minutes discuss 
potential risk to UC San Diego, the university did not make any decision in this matter regarding liability concerns, ” UCSD said in a statement to “inewsource” . “Indeed, liability was not a factor. Once facts were fully examined, the university acted to begin the notification process to participants via face to face meetings. ” 
By March 2019, UCSD had 
fully reviewed the case and decided to contact Christie’s Place. The organization would then transfer all pertinent EmPower information to the university and subsequently purge that data from their servers. Once this process is complete, UCSD will then  inform the participants about the breach. 
“UC San Diego has been working 
with Christie’s Place on ensuring the secure transfer of study and participant data from Christie’s Place to the university and the destruction of all study and participant data at Christie’s Place” Director of Media Relations for UC San Diego Health Scott LaFee told the Guardian. “The notification to participants regarding the EmPower Women study protocol and data breach will begin next week. ”As of May 23, Kip Kalento is no 
longer listed as the Director of the UCSD Human Research Protections Program on the program’s website. The Guardian reached out to HRPP , but they have declined to comment. 
Aron: I Participated in the Demonstration Because I Want Students to Feel Supported by Some of  the UCSD Faculty
Director of  UCSD Human Research Protections Program No Longer Listed in the Position on the Program Website
The Panelists Discussed Feminism, W omen Not Supporting W omen, and Offered Advice to their 20-Y ear-Old Selves ▶ CLIMATE , from page 1
▶ HIV, from page 1
▶ LEADERSHIP , from page 1
na t alie tran  nnt007@ucsd.eduandrew ha  ah1a@ucsd.edumadeline leon  m7leon@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Technology is slowly encroaching on all facets of daily life, and if 
you’ve been paranoid about self-driving cars and drones delivering your packages, it’s about to get a lot worse. Bioengineering has 
brought the industry novel solutions to a variety of issues that we’ve struggled with for years in the past: utilizing nanoparticles to attack 
cancer cells, CRISPR and gene-editing technologies to prevent diseases 
acquired before birth, and sensors and wireless technologies to better alert nurses at an instant. However, with advancements in bioinformatics 
techniques - the science of collecting and analyzing complex biological 
data and developing tools to solve modern computational issues - the 
ethics in medical technology advancements are up in the air.
One of the most promising advancements for many technology 
industries is arti ficial intelligence, a technique in which computers 
are programmed to mimic human cognition. AI is developed through 
a variety of coding practices, such as logic trees, if-then statements and machine learning. Machine learning, a subcategory of AI, is used prominently across healthcare fields to eliminate clinical errors by 
incorporating vast amounts of patent data in the process of diagnosis and treatment. However, any sort of data comes a new variety of issues.
Genetic testing exempli fies a 
concern with new avenues for data processing. Companies like 23andMe and AncestryDNA are quickly gaining traction for the services they o ffer with 
genetic testing and reporting. These 
tests compare mitochondrial DNA, or Y-chromosome-linked DNA, to data from Genome-Wide Association Studies, or observational assessments of whether or not certain traits can be linked to genes. In order for companies that do genetic testing to provide accurate results, they must compare the data they receive from customers to a dataset of people from a variety of ethnicities and racial backgrounds. However, a recent study shows that over three quarters of GWAS participants come from people with European descent. Beyond simple genetic testing, this lack of diversity in these types of databases can make it harder to diagnose diseases that have been linked to certain racial or ethnic groups, and hinder the development of researcher’s understanding of epigenomics. 
Now, lets throw in AI and machine 
learning into the mix. Such high-volume analyses are built on the mere accessibility of real-world data. Without reliable diversity in the databases such as ones from GWAS, so ftware developers 
and bioinformaticians are at the risk of unknowingly allowing biases to in fluence, 
which could potentially lead to a variety of ethical issues. This 
issue exists across technological industries today. For example, Amazon developers created an AI-headed so ftware 
to vet hiring applications for roles in the so ftware 
engineering department. However, the recruiting engine had a signi ficant issue: It hated female applicants. 
Through machine learning, the so ftware had “taught” itself in a 
way to immediately cut female applicants from the list, downgrading resumes that had the word “women” in it completely. The experimental 
project was shut down as quickly as it was developed, but that’s just the beginning of inequalities in technology. 
A variety of other issues have come about with the popularization of 
AI algorithms. COMPAS, a program used to identify the likelihood of 
criminal reo ffending, has been proven to state that black men had a higher 
risk than they really posed. Facial recognition so ftwares, which usually 
utilize machine learning, could identify a person’s gender with 99 percent 
accuracy if that person was a white male, but only at 35 percent if that 
person was a dark-skinned woman. More than 80 percent of professors 
studying AI are men, and less than 15 percent of researchers at Facebook 
and Google who are studying machine learning are women. This makeup 
highlights the lack of diversity with development of these programs to begin with, which can account for bias in algorithm implementation in the current industry.
In medicine, these problems with AI can become just as bad, if not 
deadly. The softwares have currently 
been used in symptom detection and disease diagnosis, but with the development of informational databases on patient conditions, it’s likely that AI will be utilized in the future for suggestions and recommendations on treatment. However, with a lack of data on a variety of populations with varying socioeconomic, racial and ethnic statuses, these recommendations quickly become less reliable. An example of this is how people from a certain ethnic background that 
is underrepresented in datasets could be less likely to recover  a fter a 
certain surgery, causing algorithms to recognize that and potentially recommend against it, regardless of the reliability of that data.
Diversity in health has been an issue for many years in the past. 
There’s reasons as to why the mortality rate of African American infants 
is 2.5 times higher than that of white children, or that 83 percent of 
women reported experiencing some form of gender inequality or 
discrimination by their healthcare providers. Although 
AI poses potential and fantastic advancements in 
the medical field, it is imperative to realize the 
disparities and inequalities that are re flected 
in current datasets and the potential they 
have to translate to biases in algorithm 
development. Until we have dealt 
with ethical issues and healthcare 
biases that the industry experiences 
today, it is best to keep AI and bioengineering technology as 
what they are: tools, not provider 
replacements.
B y  rajee  ganesan     Staff WRITER
rajee  ganesan   rganesan@ucsd.eduWHA T  EVER Y SCI-Fi  movie  told  us  not  to  doArtificial Unintelligence
“...software developers 
and bioinformaticians 
are at the risk of 
unknowingly influencing 
these algorithms, which 
could potentially lead to a 
variety of ethical issues.”OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITORS
ADRIANA BARRIOS
features@ucsdguardian.org
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
STAC
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEEThese meetings are biweekly
and open to the public.The Student Transportation Advisory Committee  
is a board of student representatives from each of the 
six college councils, the Graduate Student Association, 
and the Associated Students designed to advise 
Transportation Services and other UCSD administrators 
on the execution of the UPass program and various 
Transportation and Parking issues on campus.
College representatives can be reached via their college 
councils and STAC leadership can be reached via 
stac@ucsd.edu. Feel free to send any questions or 
concerns you would like addressed at STAC to this email 
or AS's general contact form at as.ucsd.edu.SYSTEM 32  
By System 32
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
There has been a well-documented rise in festival culture from 
when it first started. Due to social media being such a large presence in pop culture, people are as connected as ever to 
artists. The establishment of popular music streaming services like Apple Music and Spotify means there is more access to music than what’s offered by CDs or even radio. This strong connection to artists leads people to root for their favorite artists or, at the very least, someone that can perform well.
 With UC San Diego being an academically demanding school, 
a festival like the Sun God Festival is something that students constantly look to as a de-stressor. The pressure of these decisions lies solely on the staff of Associated Students Concerts and Events Office to deliver a lineup that can give a Coachella-esque experience for students who are either really stressed out or want to hang out with friends without melting in the desert. 
 One of the people who has to shoulder this load is Nancy 
Xu, the senior associate vice president of ASCE. Her responsibilities are “spearheading any new projects and working with the directors to ensure that all of [ASCE’s] events are executed in a timely and efficient manner. ” Xu and her staff have to compile all of the data from past surveys and the pre-survey that’s given to students early in the fall in order to determine 
which artists to negotiate with. 
It isn’t simply one artist that is negotiated with — there are many.
“Our festival’s team members 
use certain criteria to select artists within our budget, ” Xu said. “Then they write a pitch to us for approval. We have had lengthy discussions for every artist we sent offers to, as we recognize the importance of selecting artists that best represent what the student body wants. ”
 The number of  times a certain artist is mentioned matters 
when choosing which artists will proceed to the next stage. An 
example of an artist that was very popular in the survey was Joji, a 
versatile musician who was featured in this year’s Sun God lineup, as he was the “second most-named person in our fall entertainment survey. ” Despite this, Xu admits that the survey can miss a certain portion of the student demographic. 
 The next stage of the process involves a negotiation with the 
artist and determines whether or not the targeted artist will be able to perform or not. There is a lot of uncertainty — even once artists that fit the budget are chosen — as they can walk away for a lot of reasons, including “where they’re from, whether they’re already on tour, the offer amount, etc. ”
 “We’ve had some artists walk away from offers due to prior 
commitments, and we’ve had some artists walk away from offers due to the date of the festival itself, ” Xu explained. “We’ve had some easy negotiations that go through on their first try as well as some negotiations that last for weeks. It really varies, and there’s definitely no black-and-white negotiation process we can describe. ” 
A sense of disappointment creeps in whenever an artist is unable 
to perform as a lot of time and thought goes into choosing the artists.
Then the lineup is announced.  After the 
“hundreds of names we research” and 
“the often daily emails and phone calls our team has with agents, ” the student 
body now has access to the official 
lineup. After a lot of teasing, the 
students can now either look forward to or complain about 
the musicians. There are a lot 
of nerves for the ASCE staff 
once the lineup is announced 
because all of their pride and 
joy is out there for the public to 
critique. 
Xu described her personal feelings 
as “both relieved and nervous. There are 
big expectations that we need to deliver on, and of course we want to be able to make the best decisions for the students. Releasing the lineup and seeing the reactions of hundreds of students is a real, tangible evaluation of the months of work you put in. ” 
Over the years, there has been criticism over the quality of the 
most recent lineups. Many students find them lacking in quality, arguing that they don’t compare to lineups in the past, which featured artists like Drake or Khalid. The 2018 lineup in particular, during which the headliner blackbear was substituted last minute for Roy Woods,  was met with a lot of criticism and pessimism.
Xu responded to this criticism. “Candidly, it’s easy for students 
to look up an artist’s ‘quote’ online and say that an artist only costs this certain amount of dollars, ” she said. “What they miss, however, is the time relevancy of those quotes — many were posted years earlier, and the quote of an artist increases exponentially over time. Artists who have blown up, like Post Malone or Billie Eilish, have 
significant increases to their quotes on a week-to-week basis. We 
work directly with college agents of various talent companies and negotiate strongly to ensure that our talent dollars are well spent. ” 
The prices of these acts are very high, and with the high security 
budget due to past events, there are a lot of limitations that they face early on. This forces ASCE to 
turn to acts that are more up-and-
coming instead of established stars. There is an abundance of variety and potential in these up-and-coming acts, but they can be a hit-or-miss. 
Jake Valley, the festivals director, 
reflected on how the pressure affected him this year. “There is always pressure, especially with 
Sun God, but with the right research and will to make it great, anything is possible, ” he said. “I think we overcame the pressure this year and made a lineup for all tastes in music. ” 
He shares the weight of responsibility with Xu in regard to making 
sure the event can maximize its potential. This year did feature more positive feelings about the lineup and an adjustment in what kind of talent is gotten. 
There is little possibility for growth within these positions as the 
people in charge are constantly being cycled out as they graduate. Xu addresses the fact that “our time in these positions is very intense and very short. It was difficult for me to get in tune with the many different aspects of the festival, and to set a timeline for my staff to complete certain action items, while trying to gather input along the way. ” 
This whole process goes by very quickly and it doesn’t allow for 
experience to build off. It is a very tall task to take on as there are many aspects that go into recruiting the talent and taking care of all the minutia.It’s a process that takes a strong work ethic. 
Although there will soon be someone else in charge of the festival, 
Xu shared her hopes for the festival going forward. 
“I would like to keep seeing the festival revise, and put both safety 
and programming on the same fronts, prioritizing safety while not losing the essence of the event itself, ” she said. “I hope that our process page on the website continues to be developed, and for us to incorporate more and more forms of gathering student input: surveys, town halls, and focus groups. ”
It is easy to complain about the event being lackluster at times due 
to artists that can seem underwhelming, but there is a lot of work that goes into planning the event. Considering the limitations on the budget, all of the responsibilities that people like Xu and Valley have, and the tricky negotiation process, the effort from the people in charge of ASCE is nothing short of impressive. The progress that was made this time around sets hopeful precedent for the future, as the student body’s opinion will carry more weight and deliver an event that can live up to the expectations of its early days.
“What they miss, however, 
is the time relevancy of 
those quotes — many were 
posted years earlier, and the 
quote of an artist increases 
exponentially over time.” 
The  Apostles  of  Sun God
A look at how ASCE determines the lineup of artists for UCSD’s most popular music festival.
B y nelson espinal     Contributing Writer
FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Over the past ten years, national college acceptance rates have 
decreased by about 40 percent. One of the reasons that schools have become more selective is that there are more students applying for 
colleges than there were before. Colleges and universities have to decide how to accommodate the sudden increase of university-aged students. For a university like UC San Diego that operates on a multi-college system, how will the increase of students impact the faculty, quality of education, and student life?
After the end of World War II, the increase in college attendance more 
than doubled from the year 1950 to the 1970s. Federal government also saw an increased interest in education with the Higher Education Act of 1965 under President Lyndon B. Johnson, which helped create schools and universities. 
As noted in the draft proposal for a center of higher education in San 
Diego, the demand for a generation of skilled workers was placed upon “universities by a changing, increasingly technological society” as the 
population of the country increased with baby boomers and immigrants.
California was a rapidly growing state at the time of the Higher Education 
Act, and the “need for additional centers of public higher education” was 
recognized by the San Diego City Council in a response letter to a university proposal in the area. At the time, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography had been doing research and training graduate students for almost half a century. The new plan was to expand inland with a university that provided graduate studies in science and technology in the San Diego area. 
Meanwhile, the president of the University of California at the time, 
Clark Kerr, had sent a team of researchers to study the college systems in English schools. To study the effects of the college system on undergraduate education, UCSD was granted permission by the UC Board of Regents to implement this college system in 1964. Roger Revelle College became the first established college at UCSD. 
UCSD describes its college system as unique among the UC campuses for 
“providing students with the advantages of a small liberal arts college and the resources of a large research university. ” 
The creators of the college system 
hoped that the separation yet integration of departments and individual home colleges would make faculty planning 
more interdisciplinary and “increase 
creative contributions” from the faculty. Even though the college system was built for faculty, faculty success in integrating students’ engagement and participation would increase student retention and indirectly benefit the students. 
In the 1965 Academic Plan for UCSD, the small faculty to student ratio 
would “permit economical capital and limit operating costs. ” In regard to faculty to student sizes, the ratio was 12-to-1 in the 1980s and is currently a ratio of 15-to-1. The campus has managed to keep an intimate relationship between professors and students, living up to its promise of a liberal arts education which tends to have small class sizes. However, the ratio is only for upper division classes; lower division courses have class sizes up to 100 students per professor.
When the colleges were first established at UCSD, the curriculum offered 
was 40-percent natural sciences, 25-percent social sciences, 10-percent humanities and arts, and 10-percent other. 
Critics of the early days of the college system, such as Chancellor Herbert 
F. York and John S. Ga lbrait h, argue d t hat a more humanit ar ian c ur r ic u lum needed to be inputted. As a science, technology, engineering, and math school, the university’s early mission was to “provide graduate programs in the sciences and technology, with such undergraduate instruction as is essential to support the graduate programs. ” However, York suggested that other areas of study such as philosophy and social sciences needed to be included in the curriculum in order to produce “well-rounded” students.
Galbraith, one of the researchers who was sent to England by Kerr and 
who would later become the second chancellor of UCSD, commented that the school was a “science institute with a humanities tail. ”
This still rings true for students at UCSD today. One anonymous Eleanor 
Roosevelt College senior said, “Certain colleges make it easier for certain students. The school needs to even out the GEs for the different colleges. 
Some students have to take more GEs before they can graduate than 
students from certain colleges. ” 
In the original letter proposed to the UC Regents in 1965, UCSD’s 
plan was to create 12 colleges with a maximum of 2,400 students in each. However, over the course of 20 years, the number of students has more than doubled with six colleges accommodating roughly 35,000 students. As of right now, Seventh College is planned to be established within the next two years, and plans for Eighth College and Ninth College are already underway. UCSD has received more applicants that it has ever seen, and the number of admitted students increases with each passing year. The increase in student population is a concern for the community, student life, and environment of each college. The current issue regarding universities is the attention and resources directed toward a large, growing student body. 
Among current students, opinions vary on UCSD’s college system. 
The most negative comments regard the living situations of on-campus housing students. Some students agree that the small community makes it easier to meet new people with the same interests within their college. However, some students are concerned with the population growth of the number of students in a college.
One Thurgood Marshall College 
freshman commented on the housing situation on campus, “I’m in Marshall but I live in Revelle because there was an overflow of students. ”
The living arrangements of on-campus housing for undergraduates 
has become a huge problem in recent years in regard to the quality of the housing and the quantity of people in them.
As one Sixth College freshman points out, “they’ve converted the double 
rooms in Sixth College to triple rooms, ” in an effort to accommodate more students while the other colleges are being built. 
This is not the first time the university has expanded to deal with 
population inflation in the colleges. Fourth College — now Earl Warren College — was created in 1974 to help bring down the 10,000 students 
enrolled in the other three colleges. 
In a 1964 letter to the Committee on Education Policy, UCSD 
administration said that “a new college would have to be built every 2.5 
years” in order to “plateau the increase of students and ease tension off existing colleges. ”
While many students believe that the college system at UCSD will last, 
they think that changes have to be made in order to keep the system strong. However, an even bigger change is looming in the near future. As population trends are projected to change within the next few decades, UCSD may see that its colleges will house less people as the population of aging adults and seniors increases while the number of children and young adults decreases. 
Special thanks to the library staff in the Special Collections Room in 
Geisel Library. Records can be found in the Campus Planning Folders in the University Archives.
 
 The  Mul ti-College  S y stem: 
Overflow  Error
The original plans for the college system at UCSD are threatened by rising student numbers.
B y Charlotte  Armstrong     senior staff Writer
“The increase in student 
population is a concern for the 
community, student life, and 
environment of each college.”Since UCSD’s creation over 50 years ago, it has cemented itself as a world-class institution.PHOTO COURTESY OF MARK SHIMAZUA&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
TV  REVIEW
FILM  REVIEWGAME  of  thrones:  Season  8
John Wick: Chapter  3 - P arabellumPHOTO COURTESY OF GAMES RADAR
PHOTO COURTESY OF ROLLING ST0NE
Created by   David Benioff and D. B. Weiss
Starring  Emilia Clarke, Sophie Turner, Maisie Williams, Kit Harrington, Peter Dinklage, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Lena Headey, Isaac Hempstead-Wright, Gwendoline Christie
Premiered  April 14, 2019
Directed by   Chad Stahelski  
Starring  Keanu Reeves, Halle Berry, Laurence Fishburne, Mark Dacascos, Asia Kate Dillon
Released  May 17, 2019
Rating  RCC-
CA-Major Spoilers for Game of Thrones: Season 8 
in this review. Proceed with caution!
Of course, it was never intended to get this big. 
When “ A Game of Thrones” was first published in 1996, it was meant to be the first of a trilogy, doubtless beloved by a cult following of fans, but not watched earnestly by the whole world. When George R. R. Martin, already a successful fantasy writer in his own right, set pen to paper, he never could have imagined the millions that would wait for its conclusion in breathless anticipation. And on May 19, we got that conclusion, not penned by Martin, but by showrunners with a budget impossibly high. And after all these years of waiting, did it deliver?
Well … no.For once, the biggest tragedy of “Game of 
Thrones” has nothing to do with dead bodies, and everything to do with the fact that it really didn’t have to be this bad. We still don’t know which parts of the plot were Martin’s and which were David Benioff and D. B. Weiss’ , but the barebones, while still sure to disappoint some fans (you can’t please everyone) are good enough. A mad queen, an unlikely king — it straddles that sweet spot between not unearned and still unpredictable. But despite eight seasons in which to craft satisfying story arcs to bring the characters to this point, the ending of “Game of Thrones” still feels entirely rushed and out of place. Season Eight seems almost like the writers hadn’t even considered how the story might end until they began writing it. They try to push the characters in a completely left-field direction in six episodes, all the while throwing in as many twists as they could.
Maybe the most disappointing part is that so 
little mattered. The white walkers, ever present in the background of the entire series, always presented as a lurking final battle that would have to be reckoned with, were taken down in a single episode with minimal major character deaths. For all the foreshadowing, the Iron Fleet (though conveniently ineffective in the very next episode) delivered more meaningful punches than the literal zombie army ever did.
What was the point of this? Why did we sit 
through seasons of watching Kit Harrington in a parka fighting zombies if it was never going to matter? What made “Game of Thrones” stand out was the element apart from the wars of men — but at the end of the day, despotic rulers, not the cruel forces of nature, are shown as the real threat, sending a mixed message about a storyline often perceived as a metaphor for climate change. But this isn’t the only major plot thread left unaccounted. Why was Jon Snow brought back to life if he was going to play almost no role in defeating the white walkers? What was the point of any of Bran’s powers other than justification for making him king? Why have Jaime leave Cersei, go all the way to the North, only to do essentially nothing in the battle, sleep with Brienne, and then go all the way back to exactly the same place he had been just episodes ago? Why have Arya spend seasons learning to take on others’ faces only for her to do nothing of value with it?
But maybe the biggest question is: What 
was the point of Jon’s heritage? It was one of the biggest secrets in the entire franchise, theorized and obsessed over for years by dedicated fans, and in the end, removing the answer would have made almost no impact on the series. 
At the end of the day, Season Eight boils down 
to one simple truth: this is not good writing. 
Feelings about the actual events of the ending 
may come down to subjectivity, but their delivery, focusing on barebones plot with no regard for the complexity that has defined the series, is a failure. Season Eight neglects to acknowledge “Game of Thrones” for what it is — a complex and intricate story woven through the lives of countless characters. Y es, ending a story like that is difficult, but it’s also their job, just as it was their job to track the growth of their characters. Y et we saw everything Daenerys stood for derailed in a matter of episodes, Jaime turn his back on a series-long character arc over the course of a few minutes, the reportedly wise Tyrion made into a complete fool and then still rewarded with the position of Hand by the end, and Bran accomplish nothing despite his great powers. No matter the direction given by Martin, this is almost certainly not the way he would have accomplished it. 
Of course, there are some highlights, saving 
graces that almost make it worth it. Sansa being crowned queen in the North was a rare earned bright spot in the series’ finale, and the cast and crew all do commendable jobs in making the season visually stunning. Emilia Clarke deserves a shout out for doing her best to sell her face-heel turn to the dark side, and there really is some great cinematography outside of the notoriously under lit Battle of Winterfell.
“Game of Thrones” is about a time of change 
— summer becoming winter, power based from one hand to another, and a young girl who has seen injustice in the world determined to “break the wheel. ” Y et the story ends in a place of stasis. King’s Landing looks as sunny as ever, and Daenerys’ desire to destroy injustice is her downfall. This could serve as a pointed commentary about the world’s inability to change, but instead, we are expected to believe that Bran as king will mean something different for the world, without any indication of what that is. Bleak, hastily written, and in complete disregard of its own themes, “Games of Thrones” leaves us with one positive note: maybe the books will be better.
—  CHLOE  ESSER
A&E Editor
Previously in “John Wick: Chapter 2, ” the 
cutthroat ex-mercenary — along with his scruffy pooch — is left dashing for his life across Central Park. Having killed an adversary on 
the sacred grounds of the Continental Hotel (a 
strictly murder-free sanctuary for this world’s abnormally large number of hitmen and women), he is penalized “excommunicado, ” which strips all his black market privileges and tacks a hefty $14-million bounty on his head. With the stakes stacked this high, what will he do next? 
Smash-cut to this third installment, “John 
Wick: Chapter 3 — Parabellum, ” which immediately jumps into providing adrenaline-pumping answers as our feared assassin and puppy-lover, John Wick (Keanu Reeves), locks and loads, bracing for the imminent bounty-hunting mayhem that will rain hellfire against him. 
Known for its crisp-cut action, the series 
has once again pulled off jaw-dropping fight sequences.The first few hand-to-hand combats leave the audience in squirms and hoots of fervor whenever John pummels his rivals with a satisfying blow, solid kick to the groin, bone-crushing neck snap, or piercing knife to the skull. From straddling horses to riding motorbikes, Reeves performs a bulk of his own 
action scenes. His relentless spirit and polished physicality bleed off the screen, adding a layer 
of authenticity, commitment, and quality to the film. Intentionally mirroring early ballet scenes, the bare-knuckled brawls also follow a musicality 
and encapsulate both grueling and refined sides 
of intense and beautiful choreography, getting the audience to catch their breath too. 
Apart from the close-range showdowns, the 
gun warfare is also emblematic of the film’s ultra-violent theme of parabellum. Though the bullet-blazing shoot-outs are shot impressively, they seem to pale in comparison to the intricately composed scuffles. After a while, we start to become desensitized to John’s precise yet protracted aiming. Nonetheless, the violence is always creative, much like a kinetic video-game. Its grisliness is so hyper-stylized and exaggerated that it simply feels fun to wince and cheer out loud for the indestructible one-man army.      
Surprisingly, John isn’t the expected lone 
soldier in this sequel. In fact, a dangerous comrade and mutual dog-lover, Sofia (Halle Berry) teams up — reluctantly and curtly — with her old pal in return of a favor. After the two end up antagonizing a powerful figure and his faceless henchmen, we see their synergetic battle royale. Within the brutal raid, the fierce duo becomes an unstoppable force, wielding strong firepower 
and two fluffy-tailed, war-trained canines to tear down their opponents. Additionally, long-
time fans of the franchise finally see the notable concierge, Charon of the Continental (Lance Reddick), get his hands dirty and bloody, as 
he charges in with John on a (literally) mind-
blowing killing spree. 
Introducing more of John’s old colleagues, 
the movie further expands his backstory and the rigid, dog-eat-dog system of the Wick cinematic universe. We learn of John’s mysterious past and that he descends from a Russian boot-camp hidden within a florid and cleverly referenced “Tarkovsky” theater. Led by a poised and stringent woman called the Director (Anjelica Huston), the conservatory trains a hard-edged youth to become the next round of deadly assassins. Among new faces, there are more mononymous nemeses, like the methodical Adjudicator (Asia Kate Dillon), who administers the High Table of powerful crime-lords, and an overzealous assassin named Zero (Mark Dacascos), who simultaneously admires and wishes to defeat the idolized John Wick. Without seeing the preceding films, first-time viewers can find the plot of “John Wick 3” to be byzantine and incomplete, but the sleek mien of the characters, biting humor of the script, and rich world-building are enough to be transfixing.  
Another mesmerizing feature of the John Wick franchise is the delectable visuals, which seem to doubtlessly top the overarching narrative. The movie dresses New Y ork City in lush and garish colors to accent the elegant cityscape with a 
juxtaposing savagery. The saturated neon palette 
and hard-lined shadows immerse us in the off-kilt, neo-noir reality, one that is also saturated with clandestine killers at every thinkable corner. This time, the film also whisks us out of the fluorescent city and into the dusty Sahara and rustic Casablanca, which connects the boundless contract killers within this insane underworld.  
Ending on a cliffhanger, this threequel seems 
to promise a fourth chapter, but it makes me wonder whether this cinematic oeuvre will succinctly conclude or be hopelessly dragged out. Nevertheless, this series keeps upping the ante and the body count, creating next-level action and extensive plotline for us to anticipate. Smart and classy, “John Wick: Chapter 3 — Parabellum” is a prime-time summer movie and will have viewers extolling in happy brouhaha.
—  Ashley  chen
Senior Staff WriterPoorly developed and tactlessly rushed, the final season of “Game of Thrones” is a tragedy of missed potential.
“John Wick 3” executes yet another bizarre and high-brow action-thriller.A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Mobile 
TicketUC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER
TRANSIT PASS
Use your phone as 
your mobile ticket to ride with the
COMPASS CLOUD APP  Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Cloud and get 
unlimited rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and 
SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.) 
Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  
or continuing students from 
Spring 2019 to Fall 2019 required.
summerpass.ucsd.eduExclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
ONLINE SALES ONLY: 
JUNE 19 – AUGUST 31On May 4, 2019, the UC San Diego 
Visual Arts department displayed MFA 
student Bailey Davenport’s exhibit, an 
art installation called “Testify!” that honored the brave contributions of 12 survivors of sexual 
assault. The exhibition included five large-scale 
portrait paintings featuring multiple women 
who are all survivors of sexual assault, including 
Tarana Burke, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Stacey 
Lannert, Alyssa Milano, Rose McGowan, Roxsana Hernandez, Josefina Rivera, Cece McDonald, 
Chelsea Manning, Mary Vincent, Anita Hill, and 
the artist Bailey Davenport themselves.
Davenport sat down with the UCSD Guardian 
to discuss their artwork and what it means in a 
current political and social climate that silences 
the voices of those brave enough to speak out 
against sexual violence. Sexual assault is an 
ongoing issue and Davenport seeks to highlight the contributions of survivors, honoring their 
bravery in the face of stigmatization and scrutiny.  
Davenport, themselves a survivor of 
childhood sexual abuse, has witnessed firsthand 
the backlash of speaking out. After disclosing to 
their family that their father had been abusing 
them, Davenport was met with ostracization, 
prompting them to leave their home and 
channel their experiences into their art once they began graduate school at the University 
of Tennessee, Knoxville. They began to paint 
about their personal experiences with assault, 
but the university did not support their artistic 
endeavors. 
“It was not met very positively. They actually 
told me that if I kept making work about that, 
they were going to cut my funding, ” Davenport 
told the Guardian. Nonetheless, they left school and continued to paint about their experiences. Initially, their paintings portrayed solely their 
own experiences. As time went on, Davenport 
started painting in-person portraits of other 
survivors of sexual assault. “This is not just about 
me, it’s a wider issue. ”
In the wake of Brett Kavanaugh’s hearing, in 
which he denied the sexual assault allegations 
made against him by Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, 
as well as the current political climate in general, Davenport began to address public figures who 
had spoken up about their experiences with 
sexual assault. Davenport’s portrait of Anita Hill 
and Dr. Ford was their first painting to portray 
survivors who had received mainstream news 
coverage.
“Twenty years later, we are seeing the exact 
same thing … It is like history repeating itself 
exactly and we just forgot about. So then I made a whole piece about public figures, ” Davenport 
said regarding the similarity of the two survivors’ 
stories. 
With this exhibit, Davenport approaches the 
issue of sexual assault and violence through an 
intersectional lens, acknowledging women of 
color and transgender women who are oftentimes 
not discussed in mainstream media. Davenport 
always contemplates the implications of race and gender when approaching their work. “I think 
sexual violence is of course about gender, like 
a broader gender-based violence, but gender 
and race are inextricably linked. A lot of races 
are gendered, in our wider cultural thinking 
of it … [Marginalized groups] are gendered in 
those ways as a method of exploitation and I 
think sexual violence and racial violence are part 
in parcel of each other, ” they said. Davenport showcases these complex dynamics through the portraits. Davenport even dedicated the exhibit 
to Roxsana Hernandez, a trans r woman who 
entered the U.S. at the San Ysidro port of entry to 
seek asylum after being gang-raped in Honduras. 
She was eventually detained by U.S Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement and died from 
dehydration and HIV-related complications. 
Davenport had initially seen Roxsana’s story on 
Facebook. They felt it was important to share Roxsana’s story due to a lack of mainstream 
media coverage of not only Roxsana’s experience 
but of other trans people who were seeking 
asylum alongside her. Davenport discussed the 
violence Roxsana was subject to, stating that 
“punishing someone [law enforcement] may 
have perceived as a man for breaking out of 
their gender, and how that is seen as a threat to 
binary gender codes, ” highlighting how violence 
disproportionately affects trans women of color. Using an intersectional lens is important in order 
to understand how multiple forms of oppression can influence how a person experiences violence 
and marginalization, including sexual violence. 
With sexual assault being such a prevalent 
issue on college campuses, Davenport states that 
compared to how their last university dealt with 
sexual assault “UCSD is much better, but it is 
such a low standard. More can always be done, especially in terms of creating a safe culture for 
survivors. ” When dealing with sexual assault on a 
college campus, the institution has a responsibility 
to address the issue. In regards to survivors, 
Davenport states that universities should strive 
towards acknowledging the experiences of 
survivors and supporting them. “Show your 
support as opposed to silencing them so that [the 
university] doesn’t look bad, ” Davenport said.
When trying to destigmatize sexual assault, 
Davenport believes that disclosure is a major step towards ending the slander. “ Although it 
is a complicated thing, I am a big proponent of 
disclosure. ” Davenport disclosed their abuse at 
the age of 24. “ A lot of times when you do disclose, 
you are punished, ” Davenport told the Guardian. 
Punishment manifests in multiple ways like 
ostracization, slut-shaming, and being blamed for their abuse. Davenport’s initial fear when 
disclosing their experience was based on the idea 
that people would think that “it’s not safe for me 
to be around children because I was abused as 
a child. ” While Davenport agrees choosing to 
disclose is a personal decision that should be 
made once someone feels comfortable and safe to 
share their story, they think that disclosing could 
help end rape culture. “Rape culture thrives in the shadows, in the silences, in the cover-ups … and the burden lies on the survivors to come forward which is [s-----] … but I’ve never regretted it. ” 
Having conversations about issues like sexual 
assault can be uncomfortable, but it is about 
leaning into that discomfort and confronting the 
culture that perpetuates this cycle of abuse. “ As 
long as you are helping them keep the secret, they 
can control you through that fear. My dad doesn’t 
have that power over me ever since I disclosed, ” 
Davenport said.
Movements such as the #MeToo movement, 
founded by Tarana Burke, have allowed society to address these issues and have these types of 
conversations that were once so taboo. In one of 
their paintings, Davenport depicts Tarana Burke 
alongside Alyssa Milano and Rose McGowan, 
both well known for their public accusations of 
rape against Hollywood media mogul Harvey 
Weinstein. Davenport also had comments about 
the movement itself. “What it comes down to is the people who come forward, and whether 
we keep coming forward and supporting each 
other while providing a safe place to speak. ” 
Paintings are a pretty effective way to contribute 
to the conversation,, especially when they are 
of such prominent and recognizable figures, 
reminding people that sexual assault can affect 
anyone, even those who are in positions of power. 
“Being a painter is a good medium. It is hard to ignore a painting when you’re in a room with it, ” 
Davenport said. 
With this exhibit, Davenport wanted to 
provide a space where survivors, whether they 
disclosed or not, felt heard, supported and not 
alone, even if for only a second. “ Abusers make 
you feel like you’re the only one in the world, but 
you are not, ” Davenport said.
Davenport sheds a light on an important 
issue, using their talents and positionality to not only share their own story, but the story of other 
brave women who have come forward about their 
experiences. These paintings serve as a reminder 
that there is still a long way to go in the fight 
for women’s autonomy over their bodies and  
justice for survivors. However, these women have 
made important strides in the destigmatization of 
sexual assault and we as a society must do good by them and continue their work by having these 
difficult conversations.
— Julianna Cov arrubias
Contributing Writer
Content Warning: sexual assault, sexual abuse, rape.Inter view  With  an  Ar tist:  Bailey Da venpor tPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  M AY  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
May showers bring June flowers? With the weather (hopefully) clearing up 
soon, here are some things to do on and off campus to enjoy the start of the San 
Diego summer. 
The San Diego County Fair is a summertime classic. This year, journey to the 
Emerald City while enjoying fried food-on-a-stick, rides, games, and various exhibits in fine art, photography, woodworking, gems and minerals, and home and hobby. Once the sun goes down, stay for the Toyota Summer Concert Series act of the night. This year’s lineup features renowned acts like Toby Keith, Smokey Robinson, Lindsey Stirling, and Pitbull. 
Enjoy the two-mile music and art walk for Art Around Adams on June 
1. With performances by local artists and exhibits from local businesses and creators, there’s bound to be something for every age. Don’t feel like walking? Take a ride on the “Comedy Trolley” instead. 
Head to Waterfront Park on June 8 and 9 for the San Diego Festival of the Arts. 
This event will showcase stunning works of painting, sculpture, photography, glass, jewelry, ceramics, wood, fiber and mixed media from nearly 200 artists and will feature a silent auction, a wine and beer garden, live entertainment, and food from San Diego’s top restaurants. However, the best part is that all proceeds go to supporting San Diegans with disabilities. 
What could be better than free brunch? On June 9, head to The Loft for a breakfast buffet and de-stress before finals with a screening of Friends. 
From June 11 to 13, support the graduating Interdisciplinary Computing 
and the Arts seniors as they showcase their final projects in the Adam D. Kamil Gallery in Mandeville Center. This show features works including electronic installations, virtual reality, animations, video games, coding art, projection mapping, performances, and more. 
Too much Little Italy, not enough time? Get a Taste of Little Italy in this 
unique event on June 19 where the neighborhood’s restaurants open their doors for participants to enjoy a sample of their most popular dishes. Tickets are a bit pricey at $45, but ticket holders can choose between a “North Route” and a “South Route, ” each route including more than 15 eateries, to pick the places that will most satisfy their palettes. 
The first annual Scoop San Diego Ice Cream Festival is taking place on June 
23. Get your favorite ice cream fix from local shops that will be serving their take on this sweet treat on North Park Way and 30th Street in North Park. The proceeds from this year’s festival will benefit Monarch School San Diego in Barrio Logan for children impacted by homelessness.
In the concert mood? San Diego has a great lineup of singers this month; 
catch Jennifer Lopez at Pechanga Arena on June 10, Paul McCartney in Petco Park on June 22, or Khalid in Pechanga Arena on June 23, just to name a few.Peeks and 
Previews:
June
B y ANNIKA  OLIVES        Lifestyle Editor
Spending time at La Jolla’s picturesque coast is always a fantastic option.LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Whether you’re a graduating senior or just finishing up your first year at 
UC San Diego, here are a few ideas for how to make the most of the last three 
weeks of the school year. 
Get into La Jolla Cove
Check some expeditions off your bucket list by kayaking into the beautiful 
La Jolla Sea Caves or swimming with leopard sharks in a Snorkel Tour. 
See Black’s Beach
Pay a visit to Black’s and reminisce about the first time you went and didn’t 
realize it was a nude beach.
See the Skies
Always wanted to try paragliding? Torrey Pines Gliderport is just the place 
to do it — take a tandem flight over the cliffs and waves or even learn to fly a 
paraglider yourself. 
Taste the Best Tacos 
Visit your favorite taco place, especially if you won’t be back in San Diego 
for a while. If you don’t have a favorite, popular restaurants include the Taco Stand, Tacos El Patron, Oscar’s Mexican Seafood, or, if you’re willing to make the trek, Tacos El Gordo. 
Rooftop Cinema Club
Get yourself to the Manchester Grand Hyatt San Diego to catch a movie on 
the rooftop of a 40-story hotel! With your student discount, you can choose to catch a showing from their wide selection of newer films and classics such as Bohemian Rhapsody, Us, The Big Lebowski, Dirty Dancing, and The Rocky Horror Picture Show. 
Ghost Tours in Gaslamp
If you’re intrigued by the paranormal, try taking a ghost tour around 
historically haunted saloons, brothels, and even an old funeral parlor. Every Friday night at 5 p.m., the tour begins and will end at the infamous Davis-Horton House. Grab your thermal cameras and EMF detectors to let the ghost hunting commence! 
Cheers, Old Sport
For those 21 and up, after your ghost tour, stay in the area to live like Gatsby 
for a night at Prohibition Lounge! Spot their secret entrance by looking for a door to the “Law Office of Eddie O’Hare, Esq” and experience their 1920’s atmosphere. Be sure to remember that Friday and Saturday nights maintain a strict ‘20s themed dress code to allow for the full experience! 
Secret Swings
Be sure to visit the set of three swings amidst the trees right next to Birch 
Aquarium. They cover the checklist most Tritons have: free and close to campus! They provide a great moment of stress relief to feel the nostalgia while overlooking the La Jolla Shores and Cove. 
Belmont Park 
Spend a day on the boardwalk in Mission Bay for some good old amusement 
park rides and games. Get on the Giant Dipper wooden roller coaster, classic bumper cars, and the Tilt-A-Whirl in between playing carnival themed games such as balloon busting and tub toss to win the stuffed animal of your dreams. Also, be sure to take a break for some and relaxation time on the beach! 
Women’s Museum
Located in Liberty Station, visit the Women’s Museum of California for 
just $3 with a student ID. Check out their galleries and exhibits on women’s suffrage, 100 years of handbags, and women’s work in World War II, in medicine, and during Prohibition. Making The Most: Three Weeks In San Diego
B y  A nnika  Olives  and  Colleen  Conradi       Lifestyle Editors12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  M AY  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
A few weeks ago, I discussed the benefits of getting your next favorite book 
from an independent bookstore, but what about independent authors? Until I 
read an independently published book, I did not realize how much I had been neglecting these books as a source of literary pleasure. I also realized that most 
new literature that I encounter is marketed for me to find it, and I had not read 
many works by independent authors before. So, feeling the need to expand my horizons, I read a novel entitled “The Vanirim” by an Australian author, Tim Slee. 
One of the ways that I find new and sometimes lesser-known books to read, 
including “The Vanirim, ” is through a website called Goodreads. Goodreads is a great resource to browse authors, see upcoming publications, keep track of the books you’ve read or want to read, and even enter giveaways for free books from publishers. Goodreads is also an easy way to make reading more sociable; it is like a book club in your pocket! You can add friends, follow updates from authors, and leave reviews of what you have read. It is a nice feeling when someone interacts with your reviews or learns of a new and interesting book because you shared it with them. Goodreads helped me find independent books and it is an amazing resource for avid readers. 
Back to “The Vanirim, ” it is a unique and original sci-fi novel that won the 
Booklife Prize in 2016. The Booklife Prize, mentioned in my last article about independent bookstores, is an award given to the best independent fiction writer of the year. Reading this book was greatly beneficial to me as a reader as well as a prospective writer, not only because of its attributes but also in the areas that it needed work. I noticed while reading this book that some of the writing had small errors, overused repetition, and a couple of confusing segments. But, this did not deter me from reading; in fact, it allowed me to feel closer to the author and respect how hard it is to actually create a novel, let alone get it published. It was encouraging to see the potential that the Booklife Prize judges saw in Slee’s novel. The recognition of authors for their hard work is extremely beneficial for other young writers to see.  
This novel also definitely had incredible qualities. “The Vanirim” 
creates a whole futuristic world, one which to me was entirely original and was a breath of fresh air in the sci-fi genre. The novel follows a human character living in a post-war world governed by mythical Norse Vanir. The main character has also undergone a treatment performed by the Vanirim that is supposed to make him unable to feel emotion, a punishment for a crime he supposedly committed in the past. This character, devoid of conventional 
emotion, was one of the most compelling characters I have ever encountered. 
All of the characters are well thought out and the plot leaves the reader on edge throughout; not quite letting on exactly who is responsible for certain events. 
This book is the first in a trilogy, and, since winning the prize, the first novel 
is more readily available. After finishing the first one and being enthralled with the story, I noticed that the author had a Facebook page that could receive messages. I decided to ask how to best purchase the second novel and within a day the author replied, telling me about a purchasing option as well as a way to get a free electronic copy. It was super cool to communicate directly with the author as well as to let him know I enjoyed his book. Reading books by independent authors is sure to broaden your literary experiences, help your community, and hopefully have a positive effect on how you think about writing and reading! 
Praise for the Independent Author
B y  Carla al tomere       Lifestyle Staff wRiter
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
DESTINATION: ATLANTISFRIDAY, MAY 31
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
SIONA WILSON GUEST 
LECTURE -VAF 366, VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY
"History Lessons: Jo Spences Subjective 
Documentary." Professor Wilson will lecture on 
the work British photographer, Jo Spence 
(1934-1992), and her reconsideration of 1980s documentary practices. Spences work gestures toward the contemporary explosion in social media and the networked image. 
1pm
MINDFUL SELF -COMPASSION 
WORKSHOPS -GSA GRAD LOUNGE
For Graduate and Professional School Students. Learn to use mindful self-Compassion as an effective stress management strategy. Engage in relaxation & mindfulness. Participants are welcome to drop in for one or both workshops. Based on the work of researchers Kristin Neff, Ph.D. & Christopher Germer, Ph.D. 
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DROP IN 
WORKSHOP -190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE -THE 
WOMENS CENTER
Join us for conversation about experiences as Black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided.Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
Website: http://www.facebook.com/ 
BlackWomensCollective/
7:30pm
UFO:GEM'S PANEL ON JOBS IN 
GERIATRICS-RED SHOE ROOM
If you have any interests in pursuing a field in 
geriatrics and/or have a heart for service, come talk to our Geriatric professionals about a day in their lives! From researching to physician care, our panelists can answer any questions you may have about the geriatric field! Contact: esthelnam@gmail.com. !"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(
9am
FLOURISH @ UC SAN 
DIEGO-STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well 
at UC San Diego? Dr. Wesley Kayne and a wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNDERGRAD FORUM-CONRAD 
PREBYS MUSIC  HALL
Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
7pm
DVC PRESENTS - DESTINATION: 
ATLANTIS -PRICE CENTER WEST 
BALLROOM
On May 31st a portal opens, lights strobe, and 
bass thumps. Through the rattle of the sub bass and the flicker of the visuals, you make out a figure with her hands up to coordinate the crowd. Enter the portal, join the show! Destination: Atlantis features Nor-Cal future bass sensation JVNA as well as ~wavy~ special guest Midnight Kids, supported by a roster of talented local DJs. Whether you're a rave slave, a party animal, or tired of studying and need some vibes, Atlantis is your escape... ...ENTER THE PORTAL... Contact: djclub.ucsd@gmail.comWED5.28
FRI5.30
2pm & 7pm
PUT YOUR HOUSE IN ORDER-LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE -MANDELL 
WEISS THEATRE
Caroline and Rolans first date begins as a pretty 
average night that ends at Carolines house in an upscale Chicago suburb. But when the city around them begins exhibiting signs that something is terribly wrong, they quickly have to learn to trust each other to stand a chance against the horrors outside the gate. Equal parts romantic comedy and old-school thriller, this new play from one of Chicagos hottest playwrights explores new beginnings at the end of the world. June 2-30, 2019. Tuesday and Wednesday: 7:30 pm. Thursday and Friday: 8:00 pm. Saturday: 2:00 pm and 8:00pm. Sunday: 2:00 pm and 7:00 pm. *Performance time SUN6.01TUE5.28
11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each week. 
Materials provided, space is limited. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM- THE 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER - ROOM 2
This drop-in forum is for all South Asian Identified 
students, including South Asian International & 
Desi American students pursuing their 
undergraduate, graduate & professional degree at 
UCSD. Join us to discuss the following topics, and 
to learn from each other: Week 4 (4/23) Unfair & 
Lovely: Colorism in South Asian culture. Week 6 
(5/7) Stress Management: A crucial tool to 
academic success! Week 8 (5/28) Self 
-Compassion: A form of self-care. Facilitated by: 
Niyatee Sukamaren, Ph.D. Contact: 
Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
2pm
PIANO STUDIO RECITA -CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Join us for conversation & Connection. This 
Community forum addresses relationships, sexual 
health community building and more. Weeks 2-10 
Spring Quarter. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
3pm
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY 
LIVING- 190 GALBRAITH HALL
If you have been curious about mindfulness, this 
workshop is a perfect way to explore it. 
Mindfulness can help you reduce stress, anxiety, 
and depressive mood. You will engage ion various 
mindfulness exercises, so you can incorporate 
them into your life. All students are welcome to 
attend this workshop,no matter your level of 
experience with mindfulness or meditation.
6pm
AANKH MAREY: 27TH ANNUAL 
SANGAMSD CULTURE 
SHOW -MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Get ready!! It's THAT time of year again! 
SangamSD proudly presents its 27th Annual Culture Show: Aankh Marey! Our annual culture show aims to showcase the diversity of South Asian culture through a variety of acts including: Bharatanatyam, South Indian, Raas, Bhangra, Bollywood, Hindustani/Carnatic Vocal and Instrumental, A Capella, and much more! Invite your family, friends, roommatesanyone and everyone is welcome!Contact: shkhare@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
INTERMISSION ORCHESTRA 
SPRING CONCERT -PC WEST 
BALLROOMSAT5.31THU5.297pm · PRICE CENTER WEST BALLROOM
12pm
APPLY TODAY TO SING THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER AT COMMENCEMENT -PRICE CENTER 
PLAZA
Apply today to sing The Star-Spangled Banner at 
one of the UC San Diego's most important events 
of the year! All undergraduate or graduate 
students (individuals or groups) who will graduate in June 2019 or who graduated in fall 2018 and are in good standing are eligible. Select applicants will be invited to audition. Application deadline: May 30, 2019, 4:30 p.m.
Auditions: June 5, 2019, noon (Price Center Plaza) 
All Campus Commencement: June 15, 2019, 9:00 
a.m. Contact: darlene@ucsd.edu. Website: 
http://commencement.ucsd.edu/
3pm
FOUNDATIONS OF WELL -BEING 
DAILY DROP - IN WORKSHOP - CAPS 
CENTRAL OFFICE 190 GALBRAITH 
HALL
Come spend an entertaining and informative hour 
examining six fundamental lifestyle areas. You will leave with a wealth of practical tips you can 
immediately use to make changes that will help 
you manage your stress, improve your mood, and 
enhance your life satisfaction. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
5pm
ISC SUSTAINABILITY RESEARCH 
SYMPOSIUM -PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOM WEST
This cross-disciplinary research symposium 
focusing exclusively on issues related to sustainability will serve to highlight the work of undergraduate researchers while also showcasing ways in which researchers at all levels can conduct research in a more sustainable manner. From poster presentations to Green Labs outreach, the symposium will be packed full of opportunities for students and researchers to learn more about how to get involved in the sustainability community on campus and about current research efforts seeking to address environmental issues. In addition free food and coffee, the event will also include a keynote address by Dr. Andrea Tao, an Associate Professor of Nanoengineering and the Principal Investigator of the UCSD Nanoscale Interfaces & Assembly Lab. Contact: chdonald@ucsd.edu
8pm
UC SAN DIEGO GOSPEL 
CHOIR-MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUMTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAY 28 - JUN 2
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SPICE IT UP
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Pipe feature
5. Word with bar or binary9. Be active on Wall Street
14. Pavarotti solo
15. Surrounding glow
16. Increased the staff17. Like a pole vaulter’s pole in action18. Alg. cousin
19. ‘’I give up!’’
20. Displays peak singing condition?
22. Becomes a face in the crowd24. Samples26. Word with split or tail
27. TGIF eve
29. Lifting spots?
31. Substitute for gum or Jove?36. Vied for office37. Loaf or loafer parts
39. Some horses
40. Likely ___ (probably)
42. ‘’I’m impressed!’’43. Plant pets44. Rudder’s place45. Spare the rod47. Gun owners’ grp.48. ‘’Whoa!’’50. Mediocre51. It may be in the ointment52. Nemo’s harpoonist54. Charon’s planet56. Completely losing it61. Thought the world of64. Sesame Street name65. Bowling green?67. Flat-topped elevation68. TV sports playback effect69. Like hand-me-downs70. Popular cable channel71. Improved an edge72. The sun does it every day73. Eye ailment (Var.)DOWN
1. Coddle2. Snack since 19123. Plane-testing chamber
4. Not now
5. Marble type
6. Couple’s pronoun7. Negligible amount8. Henley or Frey
9. Billowy boomer
10. Unwanted coat?
11. Circle components12. Where the workers cut the mustard?13. Setting in Haydn’s ‘’The Creation’’
21. Conductor, but not of music
23. Celebrated twin
25. Certain mergansers27. Vandalize28. Can’t help but
30. Feeds the pigs
32. ‘’What a view!’’
33. Endangered tropical region34. Twist into a knot35. ‘’How I Spent My Summer Vacation, ’’ 
maybe
38. Hawk’s maneuver41. Former California fort46. Oahu and Maui, e.g.49. Crumpets go-with53. One barely passes with it55. Heavy volumes56. More than ‘’hmmm!’’57. Peace Prize city58. Desktop image59. Sobriquet60. Cushiness62. Catch sight of63. Denmark native66. Just paintedCARS
Used 2018 Mercedes-Benz CLA Lunar 
Blue Metallic, 7.89K miles in San Diego, CA. 2018 Pre-owned Mercedes-Benz CLA for Sale. Features: A/c, Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate Control, Cruise Control, Powered steering, Power Mirrors, Leather Steering Wheel, Clock, Tachometer, Telescopic Steering Wheel, Steering Wheel Radio Controls, Driver Air bag … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2015 Mercedes-Benz GLK Polar 
White, 29.5K miles in San Diego, CA. 2015 Pre-owned Mercedes-Benz GLK for Sale. Features: A/c, Climate Control, Dual Zone Climate Control, Cruise Control, Tinted Windows, Powered steering, Power Mirrors, Leather Steering Wheel … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2019 Nissan Frontier in San Diego, 
CA. 2019 Nissan Frontier, King Cab 4x2 SV Auto, SV V6 KC2X, PK, , Rear Wheel Drive,Powered steering, ANTI LOCKING BRAKES,4-Wheel Disc Brakes,Brake Actuated Limited Slip Differential,Aluminum Wheels,Tires - Front Four season,Tires - Rear Four season,Conventional Spare Tire,Power Mirror(s),Sliding Rear Window,Privacy … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Classic Nashbar 3000 T, Signature Road Bike - 46am - Like New! in San Diego, CA. 
Classic Nashbar 3000 T ,Signature Road 
Bike - 46cm - Like New! All Original and 
hard to find model,size and condition! Very low miles - Metallic blue -- Rear rack -- chrome toe clips with leather 
straps … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Classic Nishiki Tri-A Road Bike - Unique 
Colors - Hard to Find in San Diego, CA. 
Classic Nishiki Tri-A Road Bike - Unique 
fluorescent colors - Hard to find model - 
Custom thumb shifters for Easy shifting and safety --Brand new handlebar tape .. 21-22ins or 54-56cm --- Included extras : Custom thumb … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Mountain Bike Trek Stache 5 in San 
Diego, CA. Mint 2018 Trek Stache five 
size M (18.5). Hardly used. Upgraded with Raceface ARC Offset 40/Shimano XTR rear wheel/hub, Manitou Mattoc Comp fork, Shimano XT brakes with rear Icetech rotor. Practically brand new, no scratches/blemishes … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Executive Administrative Assistant at Luxury Fashion Company in NYC - Directly support CEO and Creative Director, professionally greet and handle studio visitors and callers and manage showroom and office appearance and functionality. - Manage calendars 
for CEO and Creative Director - Book 
travel arrangements for executives … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Business Development Associate in 
NYC - We are looking for a Business Development Associate to join our team! Responsibilities include: - Own company’s initiative to build new customer base and drive revenue growth - Oversee day-to-day operations of on-going outbound campaigns  … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Marketing Assistant (Entry Level) - We 
are a fast-growing online marketing company looking for an enthusiastic Marketing Assistant to help fill the needs of our Marketing Department. You should have a can-do attitude and be able to work well in a team environment. Candidates must have experience in marketing with websites, social media and execution … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEED
Triton Food PantryTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 2pm-5pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 2pm-5pmSPRING 2019
The playo ff season brought many ups and downs 
for the UC San Diego so ftball team, from heartbreak to 
elation. A fter a hard-fought road just to earn a spot in 
the NCAA Division II National Championship at the 
Metropolitan State University of Denver, the Tritons were unable to make it past the first round. Losing 
their first two and only two games in the tournament, 
8–0 to Augustana University in five innings and 7–6 to 
West Chester University, the team was eliminated from the tournament before spectators expected. 
UCSD had a tough time in their game against 
Augustana University, a game riddled with o ffensive 
disparity. Over the course of the game, only two Tritons were able to make it on base: junior Danica Kazako ff 
walked to first in the first inning and freshman Keila 
Bosinger made it to second base o ff the only UCSD hit 
of the entire game in the fourth inning. Besides those two instances, UCSD’s time at bat was characterized by strikeouts and ground outs. 
All three UCSD pitchers had time on the mound. 
The starting pitcher, sophomore Robyn Wampler, gave 
up five earned runs in the two innings she pitched. 
Wampler was followed by junior Dominique Acosta, who allowed two more earned runs. Alanna Phillips closed out the game and conceded two more runs over two innings pitched.
“ Augustana just really crushed the ball today, ” 
UCSD head coach Patti Gerckens said in a post-game NCAA press conference. “ They got great bat on the 
ball and it’s hard to defend balls that go out of the yard. ”
UCSD played a much tighter game in its second 
matchup against West Chester, as the team was fighting for their tournament lives. The Tritons played 
hard, knowing that their national title hopes hinged on a win against West Chester, but they were unable to outlast the Golden Rams, ending their season in a gut-wrenching fashion: with a one-run loss. 
The Tritons got on the scoreboard early in the 
first inning. Senior Maddy Lewis walked to first and 
then advanced to second base a fter a sacri fice bunt 
by Kazako ff. Next batter up, Bosinger, grounded out, 
which allowed Lewis to get to third. Then, a double by 
sophomore Sherriah Harrington drove Lewis home to put the Tritons up 1–0. UCSD defended its lead with another run in the second inning. 
By the fifth inning, the Tritons seemed to have the 
game in the bag. With Bosinger and junior Alyssa Wing on base, Harrington slammed a homer to le ft 
field, scoring three runs and bringing the Tritons’ lead 
up to a commanding 5–0. West Chester wouldn’t score their first runs until the bottom of the fifth inning, 
but even then UCSD still held onto a comfortable 5–1 
lead. The Tritons quickly responded with one run in 
the sixth to regain their 5-run lead. 
But then things began to unravel. The Gold Rams 
had a big sixth inning, recording 4 runs to bring 
the game within one run. And with two runs in the seventh, the Golden Rams overcame the Tritons early lead.
“I think we were in control most of the game, ” 
coach Gerckens said. “ They just kept fighting back and 
when a team just continually keeps fighting back and 
putting pressure on you sometimes you fold. ”
With the end of their championship title run, UCSD 
ends their 2019 season. The team finished in first place 
in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, 
and though they found only disappointment in the 
CCAA tournament, the team battled through it to win their West sub-regional and West regional legs of the NCAA tournament to get a chance to play for the national title. 
The Tritons ended up with an overall record 
of 37–17 (CCAA 24–9) and will return plenty of underclassman for the 2020 campaign. 
“I think it was huge getting back here, we haven’t 
been since 2012 so there’s a big gap there, ” Lewis said in the NCAA postgame press conference a fter the 
second game. “ There’s a lot of strong returners coming 
back and they have a bright future ahead of them. ”
But even with all of the accomplishments and all 
of the heartbreak at the end, the biggest hurt may be 
because this was the last game for a few key seniors. 
“Today does not de fine who UC San Diego so ftball 
is, ” Gerckens said a fter the final game, “I love my kids, 
I love my athletes, I think they’re great people and I’m 
going to miss [my seniors] very, very much. ”By  W e s l e y  X I a o
Senior staff writer 
Ha yden Wellbeloved    Hwellbell@ucsd.eduSoftball Can’t Complete the Climb, Loses in NCAA National Championship 
Softball
Photo by Alwin Szeto16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Irvine
at Indianapolis. Indianaat Ranco Cordovavs. Catawba; NCAA National ChampionshipUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSwim & Dive
W Rowing
M Rowing
BaseballAll Day
TBDTBD
12PM5/265/315/31
6/2
Let’s Play Two; 
Tritons Take Two on Day Two of West Regional
Baseball beats Azusa Pacific to 
advance to the NCAA Championship 
Tournament
Get out your heart monitors 
Triton fans, the UC San Diego 
baseball team just had to play in another winner-take-all game to keep their season alive. But rest easy, they came out on top once again. For the second time these playoffs, fresh o ff a great showing 
in the sub-West Regionals, the No. 6 Tritons took down No. 24 Azusa Pacific in the West Super Regional 
in a best of 3 series, dropping the first game 13–2 on Friday, May 24 
before storming back on Saturday, May 25 with a 6–5 win to stay alive and a 16–5 win to clinch a berth 
in the NCAA Division II National 
Championship Tournament at Cary, North Carolina. 
The Tritons had to be feeling 
confident heading into the series, with sophomore phenom and California Collegiate Athletic Association-MVP Shay Whitcomb, senior Alex Eliopolus and redshirt sophomore Blake Baumgartner providing much postseason experience. A fter a disappointing 
CCAA Tournament, where the Tritons struggled mightily offensively, they got back to their 
high-powered identity against Point Loma Nazarene University in the previous round, scoring a combined 25 runs in the 3-game series win against their San Diego rivals. With pitching as one of their strong suits, when the Tritons can deliver at the plate, they are nearly unbeatable. 
The first game of the Super West 
Regional was a forgettable game for UCSD as Azusa Paci fic dominated 
all facets of the game. Surprisingly, junior starting pitcher Brandon Weed, who had an MVP season for the Tritons, essentially gave away game one a fter surrendering 8 runs 
over 5 innings. This game featured 
a total of seven home runs, six of them by Azusa Paci fic, while 
Whitcomb’s two-run homer served in the 3rd inning as one of the only bright spots for the Tritons. Coming o ff an encouraging best of 
three series victory, this de finitely 
appeared to be a step in the wrong direction for UCSD, who, at this point, were one loss away from having their season ended. 
Following the disappointing loss 
to start o ff the series, CCAA Coach 
of the Y ear Eric Newman noted his team’s lack of emotion and poor body language contributed 
to the large de ficit in a post-
game press conference with the 
NCAA. Although down one game, Newman seemed optimistic. “It’s about who can execute their plan and do what they want to do in the moment. ”
Game two was a di fferent story, 
however, as the Tritons lead by Whitcomb and the pitching trio of Preston Mott, Ted Stuka, and Cameron Leonard defeated APU to force a game three. Both teams scored once in the first inning and 
were scoreless until UCSD broke the tie in the second half of the 4th inning a fter a Baumgartner solo 
shot and some key situational at-bats and hits from the bottom of the order. Whenever the bottom of the order gets going, so does the rest of the o ffense. 
APU, though, turned the tables 
on the Tritons in the 7th inning, as the Cougars stormed back for 4 runs by virtue of two home runs, which put the Cougars ahead 
5-4. Homeruns are a vital part of 
the offense for any team playing 
at Azusa Paci fic’s field, one of the 
smallest fields in the region, with 
dimensions of 305 feet to right field, 405 feet to center field and 310 
feet to le ft field. 
With the season on the line, the 
Tritons responded immediately as 
right Fielder, R.J. Prince, who has 
had a strong second half of the season and a powerful stroke in the sub-regional round, sent the first pitch he saw over the fence, also scoring Chris Schasteen, to put the Tritons up 6–5. And that’s where the score would remain for the rest of the game. Following these late-game heroics, UCSD sophomore reliever Cameron Leonard held down the last two innings to secure the win for the Tritons. 
In a winner take all game three 
less than an hour later, the Tritons did more than make up for their game one dud by absolutely breaking out for 16 runs, securing a series win. 
In the biggest moment of the 
year, UCSD came ready to play putting together one of, if not the most impressive o ffensive outings 
of the year. Coach Newman’s squad erupted for 17 hits and boasted three players with 4 or more RBI’s. Scoring in all but two 
innings, UCSD had their foot on 
the gas pedal the whole game with designated hitter Steven Schukneht leading the charge. 
The junior from Palm Desert 
couldn’t have chosen a better game for a career day, going 4–6, with 3 home runs and 6 RBI’s. The team 
chemistry was on full display, for 
besides Schukneht’s home runs, 
the Tritons manufactured each one of their runs as a team, as 8 out of 9 batters were in the hit column, which pushed the team batting average to .386 for the game. Sophomore Noah Conlon started the game on the mound for the Tritons giving up 3 runs while striking out 5 Cougars through 5 innings, while junior reliever Luke Mattson carried a majority of the middle innings just as he did in the clincher against Point Loma, picking up the win a fter yielding 
one run through three and third innings, moving his win total to 4 on the year. 
The Tritons can now get 
fully locked in for the NCAA Tournament, which will start on June 1 and take place in Cary, North Carolina. While the team will almost certainly be unable to replicate the same result from game three against APU, bringing the same mentality and ability to 
“execute their plan” should put 
the Tritons in a good position to do some damage in Cary. The 
Tritons will take on the Catawba College Indians in their first game 
on Sunday, June 2 at 12 p.m. PST in Cary, at the USA Baseball National Training Complex.
BY  H a y d e n  W e l l B e l o e v e d
contributing writer 
Ha yden Wellbeloved  hwellbell @ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY O F TRITON ATHLETICS
Tritons Finish Season with Program-Best Finish at National Championships
In their second ever 
appearance NCAA Division 
II Men’s Golf Championships, UCSD’s men’s golf squad placed an all-time best 14th out of 20 teams over three days of play at the Cobb Course in Daniels, West Virginia beginning Monday, May 20 and running until May 23. The Tritons 
posted round scores of 297, 288, and 304 for a total of 888 (+24), missing the top-8 cut for the quarter finals by a mere 14 
strokes.
UCSD ended Monday’s first 
round tied for 11th overall with Saint Leo University and Lindenwood University at 297 strokes. They were led by an 
even 72 from junior Hayden Hui and a one-above-par 73 from junior Justin Woo. Hui’s score was tied for 13th among all individual golfers. CCAA Freshman of the Year Elliot Bunyaviroch shot a 75, and juniors Adam Navigato and Jacob Johnson each scored a 77. 
The next round would be 
the Tritons’ best; their score of 287 was the seventh-best among all teams in the second round. Navigato had the team’s best round of the tournament, finishing Tuesday with a four-under 68; Woo also had a great round, scoring a 69 to move him up from 25th to 11th in the individual rankings. Meanwhile, Hui, Johnson, and Bunyaviroch shot a 75, 75, and 77, respectively. Despite having their best round of the tournament, the Tritons dropped from a tie for 11th to sole possession of 13th. However, they were still very much in contention for the quarter finals, trailing eighth-
place Florida Southern by only two strokes going into a vital round three. In a windy third round 
where most teams saw a higher stroke count, UCSD shot a disappointing 304 to finish in 14th, as four out of 
five Tritons shot 77 or higher. 
Hui’s impressive 71 was a lone bright spot, as he was the only UCSD player to improve on his score from the second round. Woo and Navigato, coming o ff 
sub-70 performances in the second round, shot 77 and 78; in addition, Johnson scored a 78 while Bunyaviroch scored a 79. Despite starting the day just a couple strokes from extending their season, the Tritons finished 14 strokes out 
of the eight seed. That eighth-
place team, Lincoln Memorial University, knocked o ff top-
ranked Barry on Thursday 
before falling to champion Lynn University in the finals.
Hui was the Tritons’ best 
individual performer, finishing 
tied for 28th among all competing golfers with 218 strokes; Woo was just a stroke behind at 219, tying for 35th-best. Hui also tied for the 16th best average on par-3 holes and 15th best on par-5 holes. Hui and Woo were also among only 21 golfers to score an eagle (two under par) on any hole during the first three rounds. 
Meanwhile, Navigato, Johnson, and Bunyaviroch scored 223, 230, and 231, over the three days, respectively. 
The overall 14th-place finish 
was the best in Division II for UCSD, whose previous and only tournament appearance in 2004 resulted in a 15th-place showing. 
Combined with an also 
program-best second-place finish at the NCAA South 
Central/West Regional from May 9-11, the men’s golf team has had one of its most successful seasons ever. This 
comes despite the departure of coach Jim Ragan in December to the California State University, Monterey Bay women’s team; under interim coach Fred Hanover, hired from the University of Redlands, the Tritons have finished in the top 
half of the standings in every tournament they’ve played until the national championships. In what seems to have been a definitive season, the new-look 
Tritons look to compete at the highest level more than just once every 15 years from here on out.
BY  P r a v e e n  n a i r
contributing writer 
pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.edu