UC San Diego completed 
its transition to a new student 
electronic health record on Aug. 
19, 2019. Called Epic, this new platform will allow students to have easier access to both 
Student Health Services and 
Counseling and Psychological Services resources, as well as 
to the broader UCSD Health system. This marks UCSD as the first University of California 
school to combine health and wellness services on a single electronic platform.
Through Epic, UCSD 
students will be able to request and manage their SHS and CAPS 
appointments, directly message 
their providers, view their test results, and request prescription 
refills. As the platform continues 
to grow, students will also be able to schedule virtual visits with 
their providers in the coming 
months.
In a statement to the UCSD 
Guardian, Health Promotion 
Services at UCSD said that the 
new Epic system will both allow easier access to the UCSD Health 
system’s resources as well as 
enhancing the current clinical care provided to students.
According to a Tritonlink Hundreds of demonstrators rallied together at the UC San Diego Climate 
Action March to advocate against 
climate change on Friday, Sept. 27 in front of 
Geisel Library. Organized by the UCSD Green 
New Deal, the demonstration was held in 
concurrence with the last day of the week-long Global Climate Strike campaign.
Marching from Geisel, the demonstrators 
made their way through campus chanting protest slogans against the crisis. The march ended at the Triton Statue at Price Center East, 
subsequently forming into a rally for students, 
staff, and faculty to promote climate action and climate justice. 
The UCSD GND network calls upon the 
university to better teach students about climate change, to create a specific plan to reach carbon neutrality — where greenhouse gas emissions are offset with an equal amount 
of GHG  removal — by 2025, and to call upon 
the University of California to create a UC-wide Green New Deal. 
Scientists believe that human activity since 
the Industrial Revolution has led to an increase in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases 
in the atmosphere. According to the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, higher concentrations of greenhouse gases  have been 
linked to worsening natural disasters, sea-level 
rise, and loss of sea ice. 
“The warming has created new weather 
extremes. In about 10 years, the warming is 
going to amplify by 50 percent, ” Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography professor Veerabhadran Ramanathan said at the rally. “ Addressing all 
the students here, by the time you turn 30, all of 
your lives will be disrupted [by climate change] … droughts, fires, floods, and a tremendous explosion of airborne and vector-land diseases. ”
Along with climate action, some of the 
speakers discussed the notion of climate justice, framing climate change as more than just an environmental issue. They highlighted how the 
climate crisis is also a human and civil rights 
issue, disproportionately affecting people of color and low-income communities, but that these groups are also taking substantive action 
to fight back.
“People of color and indigenous people have 
been at the forefront of fighting for climate justice for a long time, ” Ethnic Studies professor 
Shelley Streeby said at the rally. “Indigenous scientists need to be recognized as an important partner to western science. They offer a wealth 
of knowledge by which we relate to the natural 
world and include human values. ”
In addition to Dr. Ramanathan and Dr. 
Streeby, the GND network also had University 
Professional and Technical Employees 
representative Kate Crouthamel and climate activists and GND organizers Peter Sloan and 
Yuval Baharav speak at the rally. 
“People taking individual action, even in 
aggregate, won’t be enough, ” Sloan said to the Guardian before the march. “The most 
important individual action is to join with others to take collective action, calling on the 
leaders of our institution to make systematic 
change. ”
To date, the university has taken a number 
of steps to address climate change. According 
to UCSD’s 2019 Climate Action Plan, the school 
is aiming to reduce GHG emissions to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, achieving 
climate neutrality by 2025, and continuing 
to certify new and existing buildings under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental VOLUME 53, ISSUE 1  MONDA Y , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
New W eekend 
Parking Policies  to be 
Implemented
The newly revised policies follow a summer 
long debate and online voting forum between students and UCSD Transportation services.
HEALTH
New Electronic Health Record Betters Access to Health Services
UC San Diego students, sta ff, and faculty come together to demand change in Climate Action March  // Photo by Alexandra FusteiAfter months of debate, UC 
San Diego Transportation Services 
announced a revised weekend 
parking program to begin later in Fall Quarter on September 4. 
The program updates a number 
of parking rules and regulations, most notably removing the once universally free weekend parking 
standard.
While a number of updates and 
modifications have been made, several key changes to parking at 
UCSD to be rolled out throughout the upcoming year are highlighted 
below:
Weekend Parking 
A weekend parking rate of  $1.50 
per hour will be implemented in most lots, with lots P002, P003 and 
patient parking spaces charging the regular weekday rate of $3 per 
hour. Nevertheless, all spots on 
the weekend will be free for the 
first hour of parking, and rates will 
be capped after the fourth hour. 
Weekend charges will only apply 
to individuals who do not have parking permits. Current permit 
and virtual one-day passes are valid 
in all A, B, S and V spaces on weekends. Lot P782 will be free on Saturdays and Sundays, and it will 
be served by the Weekend Shuttle. 
Permits 
D permits ($195 per quarter and 
$4 per day) will be implemented to 
offer parking at P703, P704, and P705, which are now designated 
as D lots. The permit also allows 
overflow to P782 and P386. Central campus S permits are capped at 
$900 for single-occupancy vehicles 
and $250 for carpoolers, visitors, and contractors who park in closed loopholes.
Students 
First-year commuters are only 
allowed to purchase daily parking. However, every student is eligible to receive ten complimentary weekend parking days in the 
form of a virtual one-day pass 
each quarter by registering online. Carpool parking is being 
encouraged by Transportation 
Services — in addition to having more carpool parking spaces at Hopkins, Transportation Services 
will also grant carpool participants 
access to central campus parking.
These changes come after 
a summer of debate between students and UCSD Transportation Services. Following a virtual town 
hall on weekend parking, UCSD 
Transportation Services announced that weekend parking rates would be charged. One heavily criticised 
proposal was a rate of $5 a day for 
drivers without a permit and a $5 evening parking fee after 5 p.m.
After student backlash to the 
announcement culminating in a petition against weekend parking By  andrew ha   
editorial assistantCAMPUS
Students, Staff Rally for Change at Campus Climate MarchPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"I’ve been part of this 
program now for 20 
years, and knowing 
the success that the 
program has had is 
something I take a lot 
of pride in."
SUMMER HIGHLIGHTS
AVO I D I N G  B U R N O U Tall  your  f a vorite  media
TIPS  AND  TRICKSA&E,  Page   8
LIFESTYLE ,   Page  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Overall, these coffee 
spots offer a sense 
of community and 
homeliness because 
they are removed 
from the UCSD dining 
system, making them 
organically student-
centric."MONDAY
 H 71 L 62
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 61
TUESDAY
H 72 L 59
THURSDAY
H 74 L 61
NAPOLITANO...................2
DISNEY VS SONY ............5
SPOTIFY DISCOVER......6
OCTOBER PEEKS..........12
TIMEOUT........................16PARKING
Jacob Sutherland
Coffee Shop Woes
 PAGE 4The new online platform allows easier access to CAPS, SHS, and to the greater UCSD Health system.
BY Jacob sutherland
news editorBY Zhouying  lin
Contributing writerAN INTERVIEW WITH
SOCCER COACHES
Sports, page 15
See SHS,  page 3 See TRANSPORTATION,  page 3See CLIMATE,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
TO THE LIBRARY By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Call it prof***tion bc we f***ed this paper up.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 UC President Janet Napolitano 
announced at a UC Board of 
Regents meeting that she would be stepping down from her role as President following the upcoming school year on Wednesday, Sept. 18. This comes following a seven-year tenure marked by numerous positive and negative newsworthy events.  
In a press statement, Napolitano 
explained that the choice to withdraw from the presidency was a tough decision, but was ultimately the right one to make.
“I have been honored and 
inspired every day to serve this institution alongside incredibly dedicated, passionate people, ” Napolitano said. “With many of my top priorities accomplished and the university on a strong path forward, I feel it’s the ideal time for a leadership transition — an infusion of new energy and fresh ideas at the university. ”
In a press call, UC Regents Chair John Perez noted that the next couple of months will involve hard work from both Napolitano and the regents, stating that the nationwide search for her replacement will begin later this week.
During her tenure, Napolitano 
has led a number of nationally recognized initiatives, most notably when she led the university to sue the Department of Homeland Security in 2017 for the recission of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Closer to home, Napolitano also froze in-state tuition seven times over the course of eight years.
However, not all of Napolitano’s 
actions have received praise. Under the Napolitano administration, the university has raised out of state tuition on numerous occasions, most recently this past May with 
a 2.6 percent increase, which was 
met by opposition from the UC Student Association and several of the Regents.
Likewise, an unannounced visit 
from Napolitano to UC San Diego drew student protest after her administration had yet to reach an agreement on a labor contract with the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employee Local 3299.
Responding to a question 
from the UCSD Guardian in a conference call, Napolitano highlighted a variety of things she hopes to accomplish in her final months in office.
“We want to increase the 
number of degrees awarded by 200k by 2030 and … to close graduation gaps, particularly those with students from lower income families, ” Napolitano said. “We want to continue to strengthen our policies involving sexual harassment and sexual violence, [as well as] moving forward on our goal to be carbon neutral and have 100 percent renewable energy by 
2025 and 100 percent renewable 
energy by 2025, and we want to increase the availability of student housing and meeting student needs in regards to student hunger. ”
Napolitano has held numerous 
high profile positions before becoming the President of the UC system, including serving as both governor and attorney general of Arizona, as well as being the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security under the Obama administration from 2009 through 2013. She was the 20th UC President, as well as the first woman to hold the position.
Napolitano plans to continue to 
support the university as a whole after her presidency comes to a close in August, 2020. While she stated in the conference call that she has no intention of seeking further public office, she will never say that it will never happen again. For the time being, she will begin teaching at the Goldman School of Public Policy at UC Berkeley in the Fall of 2021, where she currently is a tenured professor.
BY Jacob sutherland
news editorCALIFORNIA
Janet Napolitano Announces Upcoming Resignation from UC Presidency in August, 2020
The news follows a tenure marked by numerous newsworthy events, including countering the Trump administration’s recission of DACA.
jacob  sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.org
Consider  joining  the  guardian! 
Recruitment  information  belowNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
@UCSD
TRITONFEST
rates opened by UCSD College 
Democrats President Jacob Faust, 
which garnered over 10,000 
signatures, UCSD Transportation Services opened up voting on 
four parking fee alternatives. This 
resulted in alternative B becoming the new standard, being favored by students at a rate of two to one, 
with over 1,200 voicing feedback 
during the voting period.
In a June 28 statement, UCSD 
Transportation Services explained their reasoning behind making the shift from free weekend parking to 
a charged parking plan in the first 
place.
“Revenue from weekend parking 
would help cover some of the costs 
associated with much-needed new 
parking facilities, ” the statement reads. “It would also ensure that 
those who park on campus during the week don’t see parking fees 
increase any more than necessary. ”
While most parking changes 
begin at the beginning of Fall Quarter 2019, the new 
weekend parking changes will 
be implemented beginning on Nov. 2, 2019. Organizations with previously scheduled events on the 
weekend of Nov. 2 or after can 
contact Transportation Service to confer about the paid parking.information release on the new electronic health record, this new platform will still maintain 
privacy standards “in accordance 
with student preferences, Federal and State laws, and ethical 
standards. ”
Dr. Stacie San Miguel, 
director of Medical Services at UCSD SHS said in an email 
to the Guardian that the new change came about in an effort to improve communication 
between the various health 
and wellness services students encounter.
“For students who require 
specialty care with UC San Diego Health, this transition will enable 
medical specialists to access the 
health records and treatment history of students from SHS and CAPS, ” Dr. San Miguel said. “This is important because it will minimize duplication of referrals to specialists at UC San 
Diego Health and expedite the 
determination of diagnoses and treatment needed. ”
In order to have access to 
the Epic platform, all students, including new students and those 
who have never before used SHS 
or CAPS, need to activate their MyStudentChart accounts.
“It is essential for all students 
to be connected because MyStudentChart is the primary communication platform used 
by Student Health Services if 
there was an infectious disease outbreak on campus, ” Dr. San 
Miguel said. “We would use 
MyStudentChart to instruct those students who were exposed on how to receive care quickly within this secure and confidential platform. ”
The Epic electronic health 
record and MyStudentChart are both currently available to all UCSD students, with access 
available both on a desktop 
patient portal as well as a mobile app.Design rating system.
“Our energy efficiency 
projects, onsite renewable energy, and purchase of wholesale [zero-
carbon] power will all reduce 
our greenhouse gas emissions, but our 2019 emissions have not been verified by a third party, ” 
Interim Director of Sustainability 
Michelle Perez said. “We are on track to meet our goals [based 
on] our 2018 data. ”
The university touts their 
energy management practices 
and climate-related academic 
and research programs as 
exemplifying themselves as bellwethers against climate 
change. According to a press 
release by Assistant Director of Strategic Marketing and 
Communication Christine Clark, 
UCSD and the UC system have signed the Climate Emergency 
Declaration with more than 7,000 
other national and international colleges and universities. 
“In signing the declaration, 
UC leaders agreed to a three-point plan that includes increasing action-oriented 
climate research, expanding 
education and outreach on environmental and sustainability 
issues, and achieving climate 
neutrality,” Clark said. “UC’s 
$13.4 billion endowment will 
also be ‘fossil free’ by the end of 
September, as will its $70 billion 
pension. ” .
Although UCSD is working 
to meet many climate action goals, the GND believes that the university is not doing enough 
and claims that the school is 
failing some of their plans.“The UC System and UCSD 
have a lot of sustainability initiatives, however, they are empty promises,” Sloan said. 
“Every UC campus is supposed 
to be waste free by 2020, but UCSD is only managing to reduce their waste stream by 
about 35 percent by next year. 
There’s also no accountability. When the administration fails to 
meet this goal, no one is going to 
be in trouble, no resources are on 
the lines … it’s an empty goal. ”
Perez acknowledges UCSD’s 
shortcomings in regards to 
waste, but is hopeful that the school will be able to partner 
with a company that is building 
new anaerobic digesters that will break down waste. Nevertheless, 
both the university and the GND 
look forward to working together to develop more thorough 
climate action plans. The GND 
plans to continue to publicly share student, staff, and faculty 
concerns to the administration 
and to promote discussion in various committees. 
The network’s namesake, the 
Green New Deal, is drawn from U.S. Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s comprehensive 
proposed legislation of the same 
name. Introduced to Congress 
in March 2019, the bill seeks 
to remedy climate change and 
economic inequality in America. 
The bill promotes the usage of public resources to transition 
the economy to have sustainable 
climate practices.
“Just [congressional] 
legislation alone, a top-down method, will not be enough, ” Sloan said. “We actually need 
buy-in from every institution 
and a critical mass of individuals. We can’t just wait for legislators 
to do it for us; we need to take 
action in our own institution. That is why we thought of what it means for UCSD and the UC 
System to participate in a Green 
New Deal.”
The UCSD GND holds its 
general body meetings on the first Friday of every month 
starting on Oct. 4 from 4 p.m. to 
6 p.m. in the auditorium on the 
first floor of the Natural Sciences 
Building.
Sloan: We can’t wait for legislators to do it for us; we need to take collective action in our own academic institution
Weekend revenue will go to ne w parking facilities The platform allows easier access to CAPS, SHS, and the UCSD Health System▶ CLIMATE , from page 1
▶ TRANSPORTATION , from page 1 ▶ SHS , from page 1andrew  ha  ah1a@ucsd.edu
jacob sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.org zhouying  lin  zhl509@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONGeena  Younger
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
CONTACT THE EDITOR
An all too familiar feeling 
amongst UC San Diego students like myself is the disdain of 
waiting 20 minutes for a drink at the Price Center Starbucks at 9 p.m. on a 
Tuesday only to have no table in sight. 
And unfortunately, for those who wish to have a place for a late-night sip and 
study session, the other on-campus 
options are few and far between. Of UCSD’s 10 coffee shop options that are not run by Housing, Dining, and 
Hospitality, most close by 8 p.m., with 
Starbucks remaining open only until 11 p.m. Compounding this problem is the fact that most non-HDH coffee spots 
have limited or nonexistent seating — 
Muir Woods, Peet’s, and Starbucks are often filled to the brim, and the various coffee carts around campus offer very 
few, if any, outdoor seating options. 
With Oceanview Terrace being the only truly 24-hour study and snack spot on campus, it is high time that UCSD expands the presence of both large and 
open-late coffee bars on campus.
Providing more coffee bars would 
yield a variety of positive outcomes for 
students and the local community — the 
main benefit being ample safe meeting 
spaces for students, groups, and faculty to meet at all times of the day. Currently, the only 24-hour study space offered on 
campus throughout the entirety of the 
quarter is OVT. While a great space for Thurgood Marshall College students, for the majority of students residing on 
campus, this spot is too far to serve as a 
resource. Distance is an issue for many students who may not feel safe walking across campus at 2 a.m. Providing more 
on-campus coffee shops would mitigate 
the issue of distance many students face in getting to a 24-hour or open-late 
study space
Aside from the aforementioned issues 
with OVT, one unavoidable drawback 
is that it is run by HDH. People have a multiplicity of reasons for choosing non-HDH spots like Muir Woods and The Art 
of Espresso. For example, many people 
enjoy these locations because they offer niche products and lower prices, 
contrasting the perceivably high prices 
for mediocre products provided by HDH locations. One reason I personally enjoy these spots is that they serve as an oasis 
of comfort in the monotony that can be 
24/7 life at UCSD. Overall, these coffee spots offer a sense of community and homeliness because they are removed 
from the UCSD dining system, making 
them organically student-centric.
Allowing local businesses to provide 
new on-campus snack and study spaces 
would also benefit the small business 
community of San Diego as a whole. By choosing vendors like Perks, a former campus favorite, or Better Buzz Coffee 
Roasters, which is a beloved throughout 
San Diego county, UCSD would give students easier access to coffee bars they already enjoy. Likewise, UCSD 
could also offer some of the coffee carts 
the option to move into physical, indoor locations to allow for expanded hours of service, office hours, and study space.
Because several of the colleges 
already have their own coffee bars, transitioning from a coffee bar desert to an espresso shop oasis would be feasible. Eleanor Roosevelt College and the Village are currently served by Peet’s Coffee, Muir is served by Muir Woods 
and the Art of Espresso, and several of 
the colleges are home to outdoor coffee 
carts, some of which could be expanded 
to include indoor study spaces.
UCSD would only need to create 
two new coffee bars from scratch — one in the currently under construction North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Community to serve both Marshall and 
the new Sixth College, and one in the 
currently under construction Pepper Canyon trolley station area to serve both Earl Warren College and the area 
around the current Sixth. Another 
logical step would be for UCSD to expand the hours of some of the current coffee bars. For example, UCSD should 
turn the Price Center Starbucks into a 
24-hour location. This option is both a realistic and practical solution because UCSD has the final say in the hours of the location.
The topic of more non-HDH study 
and snack spots could be explored through an intersectional lens as well — new coffee spots could both showcase 
student art and provide more on-campus 
jobs. More on this topic will be explored in part two.
What is most important right 
now is that the ball gets rolling. The ultimate allure of a coffee bar is that it is a community space — one which creates a certain sense of familiarity 
and acceptance for those who inhabit 
the spot routinely. By expanding the existing hours of current on-campus coffee bars while also ensuring that new 
ones be built with both students and 
the community in mind, UCSD would be taking a step in the right direction 
to create a better study and snack experience for those who live, work, 
and play on campus.
“The ultimate allure 
of a coffee bar is that 
it is a community 
space — one which 
creates a certain 
sense of familiarity 
and acceptance for 
those who inhabit the 
spot routinely.”Coffee  Shop  Woes  for  Caffeine-
Deprived  Hoes: Part  One
By: Jacob Sutherland // News Editor
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Disney vs. Sony: Who is The Real Villain?
The summation of summer 2019 brought along 
with it heart-crushing news that sent Spidey lovers into a frenzy: Spider-Man would no longer be a 
part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe due to Sony and Disney failing to reach a financing agreement over this beloved character. Twitter exploded as the whole world tried to process this shocking news, some blaming Sony for the split and others directing their anger towards Disney. However, the vast majority of those who vocalized their opinions seemed to be in consensus that Sony was at fault, complaining that they allegedly ‘took Spider-Man’ away from Marvel and its fans. Although it was recently announced that Tom Holland’s titular role as the friendly neighborhood hero would stay in the Marvel cinematic universe, the discussion of which company was at fault for the contractual complications 
remains a topic of discussion, with many continuing to 
view Sony as the one at fault. 
The issue with bandwagon hate upon Sony lies in the 
blind and unmerited loyalty to Disney by avid Marvel fans who did not further investigate the context behind the failure for both companies to reach an agreement. Instead, they chose to direct their anger towards the victims of the situation. Sony did not purposefully decide to keep Spider-man for themselves for purely selfish means. Sony is a company significantly smaller than Disney that could not afford to keep up with the high and unreasonable demands being made. Those who mindlessly side with Disney forget that this “magic making factory” is also a $130 billion company whose former agreement with Sony asked for five percent of the Spider-Man film revenue. In addition, Disney also asked for the total earnings for any profit created outside of the film. Then, however, Disney attempted to renegotiate the film to be financed on a 50/50 basis, a whopping 45 percent more than the original arrangement agreed to. Well aware that the Tom Holland Spider-Man’s box office success was largely due in part to this teenage superhero simply being a part of the Marvel cinematic universe, Disney decided to raise their stake on the film knowing Sony would be highly pressed to stay with Marvel despite whatever absurd rate was thrown at them. The notion that Spider-Man leaving Marvel was a selfish and strategic move on Sony’s part as an attempt to garner a greater margin of profit for the company is an acutely inaccurate claim. The failure for Sony to negotiate with Marvel to have Spider-Man be a part of the Marvel cinematic universe would only serve to harm 
Sony and the success of future Spidey films. If Sony 
refused to pay Disney’s insane stakes, the Spider-Man films would lose a substantial amount of their revenue as Marvel fans would be more hesitant to watch the films. However, if they did comply with the new deal, they would be forced to sacrifice an immense amount of their earnings to a corporation that already seizes a considerable amount of the profit. 
This conclusion of this particular case of Sony versus 
Disney is a reflection of the imbalanced power dynamic between the larger and smaller corporations in the entertainment industry. Smaller companies are forced to comply with those who hold a monopoly over a large portion of the industry itself. These companies, like Disney, therefore effectively control the media and the outcomes of major business transactions. After roughly a month of back-and-forth negotiations, it was recently announced that Disney would co-finance 25 percent of a third Homecoming movie for a 25 percent equity stake instead of the 50 percent they previously asked for. Both companies compromised in order to not lose Spider-Man, although the extent to which the new settlement affected each corporation differed. Although fans celebrated around the world, there is a greater take-away point to draw from this conclusion. The corporation who ended up being forced to make the larger sacrifice did so in order to not lose the income generated from one of the greatest assets in their company, giving up far more than they had originally bargained for. Disney on the other hand, only gained from this new deal and was able to score even greater financial gain over their billions already obtained through their control over 
countless other franchises in the entertainment industry. 
This serves as a sentiment to how corporations worth billions are able to effectively manipulate smaller ones into selling out to stay afloat and complying with absurd demands. 
The legitimacy of this inability for the production 
companies to reach an agreement is an area of critique, with some arguing that this conclusion was bound to be reached and that the growing tension and insecurity in this agreement was being hyped up for publicity. Whether or not these speculations are true, Spider-Man in the Marvel Cinematic Universe will be swinging back into theaters in only two short years, giving all of us time to truly reflect if the dispute over this friendly superhero is indicative of a greater matter of concern regarding greed in multi-billion dollar corporations. 
By: Erin Chun// Contributing Writer
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Every day before I go to school, I put on my favorite “Beach Goth” 
playlist and get ready to songs that, to most people, probably sound the same. With vaguely obscure titles typically related 
to altered states of mind (e.g. “Dope on a Rope, ” “Orpheus Under the Influence, ” “Nicotine Dream, ” “Bae Caught Me Vaping”) and a common place in the overlapping surf-rock/surf-punk/psychedelic rock sub-genres, these songs generate a veneer of SoCal edge and chill that brings me as close to chill as I will ever get. My beach goth music defines a substantial component of my selfhood, but I didn’t stumble upon those songs by chance — I found them on Spotify. Somehow, Spotify knew that I would like them before I even knew that I did. 
I, like many other students at UC San Diego and young people our 
age, am a Spotify fiend. 
Spotify is an online streaming platform that allows users to stream 
music and podcasts across the world. It was created in 2006 in Sweden — far from Silicon Valley, where iTunes, the definitive music application 
of the early 2000s, established its headquarters. Theoretically, Spotify 
was intended to combat the increasing problem of illegal music piracy made common by the age of YouTube and the increasing accessibility of the internet. Spotify went from being a small startup to a worldwide, multi-billion-dollar music provider that offered a desirable solution to both the listeners and the artists: listeners didn’t have to pay for songs, but the artists still received some financial compensation. It’s almost as if the rise of Spotify almost eradicated any need to pirate music.
Why even bother with piracy when you could just use Spotify to 
stream almost anything in the world for free?
Spotify’s affordable cost factor is another plus for college students. 
After setting up a basic account, users can stream music for free (albeit with mildly annoying advertisements) or obtain a “Premium” membership for a monthly fee (student membership is heavily discounted), which allows the user to listen to and skip an unlimited number of songs without advertisements. This heightened song availability helps broaden users’ music 
tastes. 
“[Spotify] allows me to discover 
and maintain various music tastes that 
heighten my senses, ” John Muir College junior and electrical engineering major Emerson Noble said, explaining his appreciation for the service. “A n d  Hu l u  i s  i n c l u d e d  w i t h  t h e  s t u d e n t  m e m b e r s h i p ,  s o  t h a t ’s  a  p l u s .”
According to data on Spotify’s website, members of Generation Z 
(those born in the mid-1990s and early 2000s) make up the platform’s primary user base. Approximately 63 percent of Gen Z uses Spotify, 67 percent use YouTube, 41 percent use radio, 29 percent use iTunes, and 20 percent use CDs. Only 35 percent of adults older than 35 years old use Spotify; most of them generally prefer more traditional methods of music consumption such as CDs or radio. 
After iTunes, an Apple software exclusively for Apple devices that 
allowed users to purchase music and digital media, lost business due to pirating, Apple switched its business model. In 2015, the company launched its own version of Spotify called Apple Music, a streaming service that’s uniquely for Apple devices. As of June 2019, Apple Music had 50 million subscribers. Spotify had 217 million. 
“I switched because Spotify is more personalized, ” Earl Warren 
College senior and mathematics major Jacob Schauwecker said.  He recently switched from using Apple Music. “Spotify also has much more to offer — it has podcasts, audio books, etc — whereas, based on my understanding, Apple Music doesn’t offer as much. Spotify also has a better user interface and it’s much easier to navigate Spotify’s design. ”
The intense level of Spotify’s personalization is part of the appeal, 
especially for Generation Z. By introducing you to niche, underground bands and throwing some classics in the mix, Spotify helps you feel edgy. 
Spotify knows how to make you feel special. At the end of every 
calendar year, Spotify releases a compilation called “Spotify Wrapped, ” which is akin to a year in review of each user’s listening data. It “wraps” up your year by collecting data on your activity, such as the exact number of minutes you spent listening to music that year, your top genres, your top artists, and your top songs. It’s common for students to post screenshots of their “Spotify Wrapped” data on their Instagram and 
Snapchat stories. “Spotify Wrapped” 
neatly lists out our music — our 
selfhood — and captures who we are 
so we can share it for others to see. It’s nice to have such personalized information about what brings us pleasure. We feel understood.  
“Spotify’s algorithms are pretty 
good, ” Noble elaborated. “I don’t know exactly what they do, but it’s good. [The algorithms] know me well. ” 
Every Monday, Spotify releases an 
auto-generated “Discover Weekly” 
playlist for every user that’s personalized according to their music preferences. Whereas older generations typically discovered new music through recommendations from friends and hours spent in record stores, Generation Z turns to Spotify. The algorithm can mix artists that have less than 100 listeners with famous artists that have millions of listeners. It filters everything according to data collected on your music taste and produces a list of songs the algorithm believes you might like.
Interestingly enough, records are ironically making a comeback 
even though streaming services offer far more options for a decreased cost. Some argue that we live in an age of nostalgia because many millenials and Gen Z-ers are expressing an obsession with living in a different time. Polaroids are taking over Instagram, vintage fashion is considered artsy, and more and more record stores are popping up in hipster neighborhoods. This nostalgia could be part of our generation’s vested interest in projecting a personalized aesthetic (in this case a retro one) and unique version of yourself. Or it could be the pleasure of discovering music in person. 
“I prefer the physical aspect of record shopping because there’s 
something really magical to me about a needle and a piece of plastic, ” said Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Yassamin Emadi, an aerospace engineering major who has had a Spotify account since she was in middle school and was recently gifted a record player. “But when I’m looking for new music, record shopping isn’t my go-to because I tend to go according to image — for what looks the coolest. Whereas with Spotify Discover, I’m actually listening to new music that matches the genre of what I already know I’m interested in. ”
 
Spotify  Discover: Using  an 
Algorithm  to  Discover  Yourself
For many students, Spotify’s auto-generated playlists provide the soundtrack to our lives. But 
does Spotify help us discover new music or simply re-introduce us to the same sounds?
By Lara sanli     Features editor
“It’ s almost as if the rise of 
Spotify almost eradicated any 
need to pirate music. Why even 
bother with piracy when you could 
just use Spotify to stream almost 
anything in the world for free?”The booming resurgence of vinyl and record players remains dwarfed by the scale of the 
streaming industry.PHOTO COURTESY OF METV.COM
See SPOTIFY,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
Granted, algorithms aren’t perfect. Sometimes, instead of introducing 
you to something new, they keep you stuck with what you already know. 
That’s the irony of Discover Weekly: you might not be listening to any new genres at all. Similar sounds become repetitive and then eventually blur into white noise. Music becomes a headache instead of pleasure. 
“Since I’ve used Spotify so much I do get a lot of repeats, ” Emadi said. 
“It’s at those times when I realize that Spotify is not a human, it’s just an algorithm. But when the new music comes up, it’s usually pretty promising. ”
All of my personal music is streamed through the Spotify app, which I have on both my phone and my computer. Every Monday, I go through my Discover Weekly, and usually forget to turn it off, leaving an endless, auto-generated stream of similar sounds playing in the background until I can’t stand it anymore. A few weeks ago, I decided I didn’t want to listen to more of the same, so I turned on the radio. I landed on a jazz station — a sharp deviation from my usual beach goth — but I stuck with it, and found myself pleasantly carried away. I realized that I’ d forgotten what it felt like to be surprised by any other type of sound.
▶ SPOTIFY , from page 6
Lara  sanli   features@ucsdguardian.orgSpotify’s algorithm builds your taste pro file around the songs you’ve already listened to. It uses this data to identify similar songs.PHOTO COURTESY OF HUNTERS AND THOMPSONTease description
text goes heretext text text
PAGE ?Tease descriptiontext goes heretext text text
PAGE ?Tease texttext texttext text
PAGE ?MUSIC FILM  &  TV FOOD  &  DRINK
A&E EDITORS // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
SUMMER
HIGHLIGHTSMOVIES
Ad Astra
Brad Pitt has had a tumultuous past couple of years, going through a recently 
finalized divorce while also losing his children. It’s not surprising that the actor has 
taken time away from the spotlight, working behind-the-scenes by producing award-winning films like “Moonlight” with his production company Plan B. Life has not been easy for the 55-year-old actor, but somehow he appears to be completely at peace with himself. 
“ Ad Astra, ” Pitt’s latest movie, seems to reflect this; drawing many parallels between 
the actor and protagonist Roy McBride. “ Ad Astra” is a hauntingly beautiful movie with many long, quiet shots of space as we follow Roy across the stars on what seems to be a very lonely journey. Pitt’s character is forced to reflect on his choices throughout his life and career as he grapples with a crippling sense of loneliness. As he drifts through space, he is forced to ask himself time and time again whether he is truly alone, and whether he is okay with being alone. Pitt’s performance in “ Ad Astra” is cathartic; as the audience watches Roy deal with solitude, it becomes very obvious that for Pitt this is some form of therapy. This role is easily the actor’s most intimate role, forcing Pitt to pull from some very painful and recent experiences. It’s a movie that forces both Pitt and Roy to come to terms with their emotions and to really experience them for what they are. However painful it may be, “ Ad Astra” forces the audience to contemplate another version of what masculinity can be — it encourages us to be in touch with our emotions, comforting us by showing that we will not be any weaker because of it.
—   Elias roman
Staff Writer
The Farewell
Amid the ceaseless stream of identical cliche Hollywood 
blockbusters, one small indie film in particular presented a 
refreshing story of love, loss, and cultural juxtaposition in a simultaneously heartfelt and realistic manner. Lulu Wang’s “The Farewell” is a window into an authentic China, neither glorifying or demonizing the country, but offering a powerful reflection of grief in the context of cultural duality. In the hands of a less ambitious director, the movie could have easily devolved into a heavy-handed critique of outdated and alien cultural values, but Wang’s vision was able to shine through the film as she successfully portrayed a story “based on a true lie” inspired by her own personal experience with her grandmother. There is a cultural practice in Asian countries in which family members hide medical news from their loved ones in order to spare them from the worry and fear that comes with a terminal diagnosis. In the film, Billi comes to China with this knowledge of her Nai Nai’s deteriorating health preparing herself for one final goodbye, setting off the events of “The Farewell. ” Arthouse Studio A24’s indie comedy/drama only had a limited release across the United States, relying almost exclusively on word of mouth to grow. However, those few fortunate individuals who were able to see “The Farewell, ” myself included, are unlikely to forget it soon. 
—   erin Chun
Staff Writeryesterday
The road to fame is a tough one, full of constant hard work just to find your one 
big chance to succeed. When aspiring musician Jack Malik (Himesh Patel) wakes up one morning, he realizes that his chance has finally come. Although … not in the most traditional sense. 
 “Yesterday” achieved almost instant Internet fame the moment the trailer 
launched. Its concept — a singer wakes up one morning to discover that no one remembers The Beatles, and passes their songs off as his own — is pretty funny on its own, and major star cameos, such as Ed Sheeran playing himself in a surprisingly large role, only further contributes to the absurdity. But “Yesterday” seems fully aware of how silly its concept is, and while occasionally being overly reverential of The Beatles, keeps the film fast-paced and funny between Jack’s exploration of this alternate world, Joel Fry’s comedic relief, and Ed Sheeran’s good humored self-deprecation. 
While “Yesterday” ultimately isn’t going to be winning any Oscars, its nostalgic, witty 
tribute to The Beatles earns itself a spot as one of the highlights of summer 2019. 
—   chloe esser
A&E EditorOnce Upon a Time in Holl ywood
“Once Upon A Time in Hollywood, ” the ninth feature film by acclaimed 
filmmaker Quentin Tarantino, is an ode to the final moments of Hollywood’s “golden age. ” The film predominantly traces the escapades of actor Rick Dalton (Leonardo DiCaprio) in the twilight of his career and his former stuntman and unofficial assistant Cliff Booth (Brad Pitt), as the two drink, smoke, and blunder their way across Los Angeles. The chemistry between these two individuals is uncanny and fully enables the development of a genuine bromance to be a captivating theme within in the film. Yet, in line with the director’s established penchant for all things pop culture, semi-fictionalized stories of Sharon Tate (Margot Robbie) and members of the infamous Manson Family are also interwoven into the narrative that encompasses Dalton and Booth. 
While the presence of multiple interspersed storylines and numerous 
flashbacks that make up the film do lend to a winding exposition within the plot arc, Quentin Tarantino utilizes this time to construct an atmosphere that channels nostalgia and vintage film production. The hippie costumes, dilapidated sets, coarse dialogue, and references to the celebrities and history of that time work in conjunction to immerse the spectator into a late 1960s L.A. Even with the film’s multilayered approach towards storytelling, as it reaches the climax, Tarantino manages to unite the many narratives into one ultra-violent ending that offers a sympathetic twist to the real life Tate murders. “Once Upon A Time in Hollywood” gets off to a slow start but steadily transforms into a deeply rich, and hilarious interpretation of a memorable era. 
—   Aaron  hong
Staff Writer
TV Shows
Jane the Virgin: Season  5
This summer, the final season of “Jane the Virgin” 
concluded, bringing the story of Jane Gloriana Villanueva 
to a moving, well-executed end. Inspired predominantly by the styles and themes of telenovelas and magical realism, “Jane the Virgin” focuses on Jane (Gina Rodriguez), an aspiring writer who has vowed to not have premarital sex for religions reasons. On the eve of her engagement, however, she is accidentally artificially inseminated, leading to an unexpected pregnancy and the complete upheaval of her life plans. The season four finale, which aired in April 2018, pulled what the show’s narrator refers to as a “classic Friday night cliffhanger” before sending confused fans, myself included, on our almost year-long hiatus. Season five picks up in the seconds after this latest plot twist, though, allowing for a smooth, if not mind-boggling, transition into its next plotline. I was initially concerned, due to said plot twist, that the show would revert to some of its earlier themes, and therefore dismiss some of Jane’s character development in the process. However, this plot twist proved itself as yet another way for the show to pay homage to a classic telenovela trope while simultaneously illustrating just how far Jane has come as an individual. Furthermore, this season did an excellent job of calling back to character’s earlier decisions and emotions to illustrate that they did have lasting repercussions. Over the course of the show, I’ve been consistently amazed at how well certain characters have managed to bounce back from major conflicts and traumas. Here, we really catch a glimpse into the lasting effects of those challenges, allowing a sense of authenticity to permeate Jane’s wild, telenovela-reality. 
What truly made season five of “Jane the Virgin” such 
a delight to watch, though, is that it was clearly made with its fans in mind. A concentrated effort was made to conclusively end each of the storylines, right down to fans’ long-burning question of what character is the show’s “Latin Lover Narrator. ” The season’s acknowledgement of its fans is most apparent, though, by the fact that the second-to-last episode of the season consists entirely of footage of the cast discussing their favorite moments from filming, the show’s importance, and what it means to them personally. Watching that episode made me feel a deeper sense of connection to the show’s purpose, as well as its actors. It illustrated that the cast is aware of their social platform, and that they’re willing to utilize it to discuss relevant topics including immigration and mental health, as well as represent Latino/Latina and LGBT communities. This episode also touched on the element of “Jane the Virgin” that I appreciate the most — its messages of love and family. Love is everywhere in “Jane the Virgin, ” and not strictly in the romantic sense. Through her medical mishap, Jane builds her own unique family, and it is built on love, respect, and acceptance. “Jane the Virgin” is a smart, funny, absolutely wild show, making it one of the best series that was a part of the summer of 2019. 
—   daisy scott
Editor-in-ChiefEuphoria
Very few teen high school TV dramas can boast 
infamy for the sheer number of penises shown in one scene, but that’s about the least remarkable thing about HBO’s summer hit “Euphoria. ” It’s the “Sex and the City” for today — an unflinching and complex portrait of young womanhood, delicately teetered between its messiest and its most beautiful. It’s also every parent’s worst nightmare: a harrowing portrayal of a group of high schoolers and their travails through young adulthood, experimenting with identity, sex, and drugs. 
Stylishly shot and remarkably polished, each 
episode follows a different character (think “Orange is the New Black”) as they wander through the agonizing emotional labyrinth of suburban teendom. Zendaya (proving once again that she’s the greatest thing to come out of that Disney starlet machine) gives a career-defining lead performance as Rue, an incoming high school junior struggling with bipolar disorder and drug addiction. But, she’s only one part of the magnificent cast of fresh female talent, from Hunter Schafer as Jules, the new girl reconciling her burgeoning sexuality and gender identity, to Alexa Demie as Maddie, the cheerleader beauty icon trapped in an abusive relationship. Female adolescence rarely looks as chaotic as this; perhaps hell truly is a teenage girl. 
—   Justin Nguyen
Senior Staff WriterA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
music
“Cruel Summer ” by Taylor Swift,
from “Lover ”
With the release of the single “ME!, ” I didn’t have many hopes for 
Taylor Swift’s newest album, “Lover. ” After the release of her previous 
album “Reputation, ” which spun a narrative of Swift embracing the “snake” persona that stained her public image, it seemed like Swift had entirely ignored all that character development to return to something that was… basic and disappointing, to say the least. It felt like she went backwards, depending on a pastel and rainbow-hued music video to get her by. Thankfully, once “Lover” was 
released, that wasn’t the case. It’s full of the bright pop songs Swift is known for, just 
with a little more maturity and some 80’s synth.
“Cruel Summer” is only the second track out of “Lover’s” long list of eighteen, but 
it’s easily one of the best. Infectious and dreamy, Swift weaves a tale of vulnerability as she recounts a desperate and heartbreaking summer love. Woozy vocal runs litter the chorus as a buzzing synth pulsates in the background. Robotic-sounding ad-libs add to the vintage feel. The song continues and culminates to possibly one of the best bridges Swift has ever written, featuring an emotional and vocal lead up as Swift yells in anguish, “I love you, ain’t that the worst thing you’ve ever heard?” It’s a dizzying whirlwind of emotions from that until the end. More than that — it’s a fantastic track 
that reinstills faith in Swift as a lyricist and pop artist.
                                                                                         —  Jahfreen alam  
                                                                       A&E Editor“Ta ken ” by MUNA,
from “Saves the World ”
MUNA ’s sophomore album “Saves the 
World” delivers on the lofty goal set by its title, “Taken” 
stands out as a gut punch of a track. The song appears like just another ballad about longing even when one knows it’s wrong. It then reveals through imagery that weaves between moments of past and present to paint an unflinching picture of what it’s like to hate one’s behavior, and yet feel unable to stop it. Lead singer Katie Gavin’s vocals continue the distorted, dark pop sound of the band’s previous album “ About U, ” but as the song progresses, her vocals strain with her desire to be better. Ultimately, the song builds to the bridge where the lyrics “I just thought that if I could take it from her/Maybe that it would prove that I’m worth something/Now I’m alone and I’m hurt” that lay bare how often it is that our own impulses are what causes our unhappiness. The track’s sound echoes MUNA ’s classic 80’s style synths with a slight acoustic twang, ending up as a mix between Natalie Imbruglia’s “Torn” with the plain sincerity of Avril Lavigne’s “I’m With You. ” It’s as tender as it is unsparing, and a worthy addition to the canon of hopeless 
pop songs.
— Asiy ah Syed
Staff WriterBooksWilder Girls
It’s been over a year since the students of Raxter School for Girls have entered 
the outside world. After a horrific disease kills most of the teachers and places the 
school under quarantine, the girls have been alone with an infection that mutates 
and destroys their bodies, altering the very world around them. Hetty, our 
protagonist, has become almost used to this new reality, until she learns that 
everything at Raxter may not be as it seems, leading her headfirst into a world 
of betrayal, intrigue, and the grotesque.
 One of 2019’s most highly anticipated Young Adult releases, Rory 
Power’s debut novel does not disappoint. Though targeted at teens, “Wilder 
Girls” refuses to pull any punches, reveling in stomach-twisting horror and 
painstaking tragedy. Power’s girls — Hetty and her friends Reese and Byatt 
—  are carefully developed. Each character is deeply flawed to the point 
of being dangerous, but feel so fiercely real that you can’t help but love 
them for it. Despite it’s gorey subject matter, “Wilder Girls” still proceeds 
with an undeniable tenderness, as Hetty and Reese grow a complicated, 
protective relationship, and even as Byatt reckons with the disease inside 
her. Suspenseful and horrible, “Wilder Girls” is sure to have you on the edge 
of your seat until the moment you’ve turned the final page.
— Chloe Esser
A&E Editor VIDEO GAMES             Man of Medan
This summer witnessed the release of “The  
Dark Pictures: Man of Medan, ” a survival choose-your-
own path video game that explores the mysteries of a World 
War II battleship. The opening scene of the game takes place in 
1947 in China, following two American soldiers as they struggle 
to survive their seemingly cursed ship. As they meet a fatal fate 
similar to their companions, the plotline then flashes forward to the present 
day to center on a small diving boat in the South Pacific. This boat is run by a cast of 
20-somethings, determined to do some deep sea diving to uncover a rumored, undiscovered wreck 
of a downed WWII rescue plane. What they uncover over the course of the following night, though, turns this carefree outing into a struggle to survive.  
 Objectively, “Man of Medan” is a far from perfect video game. Created by Supermassive Games, 
the same creators of the 2015 hit survival game “Until Dawn, ” “Man of Medan” does not offer nearly 
as much complexity as its predecessor. The intro scene has no other purpose than to create superficial 
intrigue, the voice acting is rather cringey at times, and out of its cast of seven point-of-view characters, 
only two are female. Despite these flaws, however, “Man of Medan” remains a fun, suspenseful game 
worthy of at least one playthrough. For starters, unlike “Until Dawn, ” a group of up to five individuals 
are able to play the game together in real time. By assigning each player a different character and passing 
one controller around the room, the game allows for an even larger variance of outcomes and a better 
shared game experience. Furthermore, even though the overarching mystery is not very dramatic, the 
game is constructed in such a way that if players don’t explore adequately, they could miss the plot 
twist essential to surviving the game. Similar to “Until Dawn’s” style, this game calls for players to 
make decisions for their characters based on following their heart, head, or remaining apathetic. Each 
choice results in different relationships and interactions, some of which are deadly. Adding those 
pivotal decision moments and supplementing them with the need for quick reflexes when it comes 
to quick time events increases the pressure players feel while playing the game, allowing them to 
immerse themselves in its survival and horror themes. “Man of Medan” is a game that is sure to keep 
players on their toes and offer new surprises with each playthrough.
— DAISY SCOTT
Editor-in-Chief
10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  S E P T E M B E R  3 0 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Avoiding Back to School 
Burnoutby Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Editor
Welcome back, Tritons! A new school year is upon us, which means new friends, new classes, and 
new experiences. We hope that those are all fun and happy things, but let’s be real: this school can be 
very stressful and sometimes lonely. So this year, we all need to promise ourselves we won’t give in to the inevitable burnout by not taking care of ourselves. This time around, school will still matter as much as it did, but we’re also going to make this a school year about us! Here are some ways to start working on that now:
(PUPUIFCFBDI
We are such a short bus ride from not one, but at least three different 
beaches, including La Jolla Shores, Black’s Beach, and Torrey Pines. 
There is no excuse not to visit one! I’ve too many fellow students talk about how they get to the beach maybe once or twice a quarter. If you find that the ocean waves and warm sand are calming or relaxing, you must go more often! Try to make time for yourself. If you’re feeling really stressed and something inside you is telling you that you need a break, listen to it. Grab your swimsuit and towel and hop on that bus!
'JOEBDBMNJOHQMBDFPODBN
QVTThis campus is huge, which sometimes can make it feel overwhelming, 
but this is where we can use it to our advantage as well. Find a place that 
you find comfort in. It can be The Zone, where there are big red bean bags, endless tea, and a quiet atmosphere. It can be one of those new hammocks in Price Center. Y ou could be laying in the sun on the grass by Sun God or across from Mandeville. I like to sit with a friend and hang out in The Hub, which has nice couches, beanbags, snacks, and a welcoming atmosphere. Whatever works for you, stick with it. It may take some time to try out new places before you find your spot, but don’t give up on it!
(FUP⒎DBNQVT
Now I know the transit system around here isn’t always the greatest, 
but if you live on campus, sometimes you need a break! This doesn’t 
mean you have to plan some elaborate all-day thing, which is nice, but it can also be small. Even if you only want or have time to take the bus to pick something up from CVS or Trader Joe’s, that’s still something! The whole point is to get some air and new scenery no matter how long. 
$POOFDUXJUI$"14JGOFFEFEWe are reminded a lot throughout the year about going into CAPS, 
but how many of us actually go? If you feel that burnout feeling is more 
than you can handle alone, there is absolutely no shame in working it out with a counselor. Whether it ends up being a temporary thing or long term, part of taking care of yourself this year is knowing when you’ve hit your limit. Knowing when to reach out. Y ou’re not alone in doing so and CAPS is here for those exact reasons. 
.BLFUJNFUPTFFZPVSGSJFOETFinding new friends at UC San Diego isn’t always the easiest thing 
in the world. Often times, we make a friend in a class and when the 
quarter is over it is seemingly goodbye forever. However, it doesn’t have to be that way! If you want to keep in touch with that friend, the only thing stopping you from doing so is you! Y ou might have conflicting schedules the following quarter, but don’t give up there. Make that time in your day to meet up somewhere because we know this place can feel lonely sometimes. The only way to combat this is to continue to see our friends and know that we’re all feeling the same things: stressed over classes, overwhelmed with jobs, and more. Whatever it is, talk it out with people who care about you! LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
A Love Letter to My Past Self
Dear Natalie,
The year is 2016 and you’re about to start your freshman year of college in California. I know you are 
both extremely excited and terrified. This feeling of not knowing what happens next is new for you but it 
is also part of being independent. Y ou’re going to dive head-first into a lot of weird and new situations that will be overwhelming. As crazy as it sounds, you will go to a real house party one day! But please promise 
me, Natalie, when that feeling manifests itself as anxiety, you won’t let it paralyze you with fear. Rather than 
succumbing to the intense culture shock, use that feeling of uncertainty as motivation to try something new.
My dearest Natalie, you will find that after the first month of school, the excitement you once had will be 
gone and replaced with intense homesickness. So remember to call your family to remind yourself why you traveled this far for a great education. After all, they are your biggest cheerleaders. And don’t forget about your friends from high school, because they need to know how much you miss them, too. Relive the simpler days of waiting after school with them and all of the inside jokes you share. And speaking of friends, choose them carefully because you will make lots of mistakes while you’re here because of the people you meet.  Always use that big heart of yours to do things with passion and kindness, even though a lot of people will tell you it’s a weakness or try to take advantage of you. Just remember that a real friend cares for you as much as you care for them.
When it comes to college, keep an open mind and ask for help when you need it. Y ou’re going to fail a few 
exams and have a lot of sleepless nights. Do not let this discourage you. Use it as fuel to do better because 
there’s nothing better than success made from spite. Don’t take no for an answer or get dismissed by teaching 
assistants and counselors, because you pay a whole lot of out-of-state tuition in order to get their help.
Don’t compare yourself to other students because you will find that there are some people who will eat, 
breathe and sleep, Geisel Library. I know you think that’s the way to be successful, but trust me, it’s not. As 
important as your studies are, you also need a mental break from them, so get off of campus and don’t be 
afraid to explore San Diego by yourself. Y ou will find a new sense of freedom from the new bus pass you received, which will give you so many new adventures to reminisce on in the future.
So Natalie, go enjoy college because your time here is important and will change who you are as a person 
for the better. Y ou have a lot of growing up to do, but just know that you will be ok and you will be happy here. I say this to you as someone who is starting their senior year with a bright future, and happily in love. So good luck my dear, and welcome to UCSD.
Love,Natalie
P .S. Don’t forget to drink water and buy new clothes: you can’t keep showing up to class in your penguin 
pajamas.
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  S E P T E M B E R  3 0 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
October: Peeks and Previews
by Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Editor
Happy fall, fellow Tritons! As we all 
settle back into our academic routines, let’s 
remember to get out and have some fun both on and off campus! Here are some events coming up to check out and get you in that spooky season spirit. 
If you’re looking to stay on campus, then 
try out: 
Poolside Cinema, Oct. 4 - This is an 
annual event here at UC San Diego where all you need to do is bring yourself and your swimsuit! This year, at the Canyonview Pool, they will be showing “Godzilla: King of the Monsters, ” so grab a pool float and relax! 
Muir Unplugged, Oct. 4 - Interested in 
watching some musicians, poets, or comics? 
Head to Middle of Muir for its first of many 
open mics this year. Sign-ups start at 5 p.m. if you’re feeling brave!
Comedy Night, Oct. 11 - In need of 
some laughs? Head to the Price Center West Ballroom for the fourth annual Comedy Night to listen and watch the best acts on campus!
Haunted Hoedown, Oct. 12 - Get into 
the Halloween spirit by heading over to John Muir College where you can walk through Mandeville Auditorium’s haunted house — if you dare. In addition to some haunted games, there will be a petting zoo and line dance lessons!
If you’re looking to explore San Diego off 
campus, then try out:
Pacific Beachfest 5K, Oct. 5 - Are you a 
runner? Trying to become one? Check out the Pacific Beachfest 5K to run alongside the ocean either on your own or with a group of friends. Get that early morning workout 
and celebrate at the finish line with a festival! 
Each runner will get sunglasses, a tank top, and a custom finisher’s medal. Register now online and start training!
Little Italy FESTA!, Oct. 9 - Save the date 
for the 22nd annual Little Italy FESTA!, the biggest Italian cultural festival in the western U.S.!  With over 150 vendors, spend the day eating Italian cuisine, listening to traditional live music, watching a Sicilian flag procession, and participating in some stickball or bocce ball tournaments! There will be chalk paintings on the streets to check out as well. 
Halloween Expo, Oct. 19 - Get yourself 
and your friends in costume and go to The Dojo Cafe for the first annual Halloween Expo! There will be over 25 Halloween-themed vendors to check out for food, pumpkin carving, special effects artists, face painting, and more! 
SaltDog Classic, Oct. 20 - In Encinitas, 
the SaltDog Classic is a music festival that supports local nonprofits. This year, they are supporting the Rancho Coastal Humane Society and their animal shelter. In addition to the various food and drink vendors, there will also be a silent auction and a live raffle with lots of great prizes. 
SoCal Haunted Brewery, Oct. 26 - For 
those of us Tritons who are over 21, break out your best costumes and make your way to the SoCal Haunted Brewery. With unlimited 4-ounce pours of craft beer and cider, the fun will never stop if you’re just there for the boo’s! Everyone gets to take home a custom haunted tasting glass and you’ll leave with even more if you win the costume competition!
Ghost Tours in Gaslamp, ear Round 
- For those who love to binge the show Ghost Hunters or have an interest in the paranormal, check out some local ghost tours in San Diego! There are a few different 
ones to choose from online that offer walking 
tours and bus tours. Each one will teach you local paranormal history and hopefully you’ll get to experience some of it on your own! 
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
 THE LOFT PRESENTS:  RAVEENAWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
MEET THE ORGS - RADY QUAD AT 
RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
This is your opportunity to meet all the business 
organizations UCSD has to offer! Come talk to our 15 recruiting orgs while enjoying a treat from Nothing Bundt Cakes at Rady Quad on Tuesday, October 1 from 11AM-3PM. Contact: businesscouncilucsd@gmail.com Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/848830238846823
6pm
PRE -HEALTH TRANSFER 
TRANSITION SEMINAR - EARL 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM (PC WEST )
Come meet UCSD's pre-health advisors and the 
official pre-health transfer student organization! 
We will have a meet and greet with Health Beat 
and several activities to help you get acquainted 
with the path to your desired health profession 
school, and free food and raffle prizes will be 
available. Contact: tntforhealth@ucsd.edu
6pm
TV DINNER: MIDSOMMAR – THE 
LOFT
University Centers Presents: TV Dinner: 
Midsommar Doors: 6:00PM / Show: 6:15PM FREE 
for UCSD Students w/ ID From Ari Aster, writer and 
director of Hereditary, this is Midsommar. Join us and bring your friends for a fun night with free food! Synopsis: Dani and Christian are a young American couple with a relationship on the brink of falling apart. But after a family tragedy keeps them together, a grieving Dani invites herself to join Christian and his friends on a trip to a midsummer festival in a remote Swedish village. What begins as a carefree summer holiday takes a sinister turn when the insular villagers invite their guests to partake in festivities that render the pastoral paradise increasingly unnerving and viscerally disturbing. Contact: ucenmarketing@uced.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/422650605057957
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(
8am
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS TO 
STARTR IMPACT! - RADY SCHOOL OF 
MANAGEMENT
StartR Impact is designed to support students of 
all levels at UC San Diego who are interested in creating social impact through entrepreneurship. StartR Impact helps them to pursue their dreams of starting innovative, scalable, companies addressing important social issues. StartR Impact is a campus-wide resource open to all UC San Diego undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral students, as well as recent alumni-- regardless of college or department affiliation -- with a business idea. 
10am
WTCC COMMUTER BREAKFAST - 
WARREN STUDENT LOUNGE
The Warren Transfer and Commuter Commission 
(WTCC) invites you to meet other commuter students. Free snacks and giveaways provided. Contact: wardean@ucsd.edu
Website: 
http://warren.ucsd.edu/programs/welcome-week.htmlTUE10.01
THU10.03
7pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: 
DECORATE -IT-YOURSELF - 
REVELLE PLAZA
Turn that new dorm/apartment space into a 
home! Decorate-It-Yourself (DIY) invites you to gather and create under the stars with your fellow Tritons. Various campus partners will also be on-site to lead some of the DIY workshops. All materials and tools will be provided, just bring your creativity! Admission is free and open to undergraduate and graduate students.SAT10.05MON9.30
11am
ALL COOP DISORIENTATION AT THE 
CHE CAFE + FREE VEGAN BRUNCH - 
THE CHE CAFÉ
Interested in volunteering at the coops on 
campus? Come check out Disorientation! Learn 
about the coops on campus and meet some of 
their members. Best of all well have FREE VEGAN 
BRUNCH! Disorientation will be followed by a free 
show for students at 7:00. Groundworks Book 
Store, The Che Cafe, The Food Coop, and The 
General Store will all be there to meet new 
students. Contact: Info@checafe.org
2pm
FALL ENGINEERS ON THE GREEN - 
WARREN MALL
Come check out Fall Engineers On the Green! This 
event will take place during week 1 on Monday, 
September 30th in Warren Mall from 2 to 6 pm. 
This a great opportunity to learn more about the 
different engineering organizations on campus 
and how you can get involved. Not to mention, we 
will be providing FREE pizza and TESC swag. So 
come eat, socialize, and have fun with us at the 
event! Contact: cindy@tesc.ucsd.edu  Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/341443063439
848/
6:30pm
SITAARE A CAPPELLA AUDITIONS 
(CALLING SINGERS, BEATBOXERS, 
AND MUSICIANS ) – SSC 554A
Do you love music? If so you're in the right place. 
Sitaare is our home away from home and we are 
super excited to hold our 2019 auditions. We're 
looking for talented singers and beatboxers. No 
musical experience is necessary. Our team 
members come from all musical backgrounds, 
from high school choir to Carnatic classical to 
shower singing. There is no doubt that we can 
make a place for you here. Prepare a 30 second to 
1 minute long solo in whatever style you are most 
comfortable (western, Hindi, classical, whatever!). 
If you are interested in beatboxing, prepare a 1 
minute sample of your beats. Sign up for an 
audition on acaspot, or feel free to walk in! 
Contact: ucsdsitaare@gmail.com  Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/UCSD.Sitaare/
5pm
INTERESTED IN AUTONOMOUS 
UNDERWATER VEHICLES? CHECK OUT TRITON ROBOSUB! - PRICE 
CENTER BEAR ROOM
Contact: robosub@ucsd.edu
7pm
TRITONS MEN'S SOCCER HOSTS POMONA - TRITON SOCCER FIELD
Time to get LOUD! Triton Tide come our for the 
FINAL game of the Trifecta and get your thundersticks- if you have all three check-ins, you are eligible to win a bike provided by Pepsi! Contact: jlroswell@ucsd.edu Website: https://ucsdtritons.com
8pm
ASCE & TRITON FEST PRESENTS: 
POOLSIDE CINEMA - CANYONVIEW POOL
Stranger Things are happening at Poolside 
Cinema! Join ASCE & Triton Fest at Canyonview Pool for a showing of Godzilla: King of the Monsters starring Millie Bobby Brown. FREE and exclusive to UCSD undergraduate and graduate students with valid student ID. Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu FRI10.04WED10.028pm · THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER, LEVEL 2
5pm
AS OPEN HOUSE & SENATE MEETING 
- FORUM, PRICE CENTER EAST, 4TH FLOOR
Want to learn more about Associated Students? 
Have questions for your elected representatives? Just want FREE FOOD? Come interact with AS 
Offices during AS Open House and get the chance 
to address Senators during the AS Senate 
Meeting, while eating FREE pizza! Free giveaways and opportunity drawing. Open House - 5-6 PM Senate Meeting - 6 PM Contact: aspr@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/2260830287562489/
5:30pm
STARTR DEMO DAY - SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM ROTH AUDITORIUM -2880 TORREY PINES SCENIC DRIVE
Join us for the pivotal moment when the Rady 
School of Management's StartR teams present their pitches and startup ideas! The StartR accelerator is a highly competitive program that includes several tracks targeting specific areas of interest: Inclusion, Impact, and Rady MBA. This event is an opportunity for some of the top teams from each track to present their pitch to the Rady School of Management and San Diego entrepreneurial communities. 
7pm
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT MIXER - 
GREAT HALL
Come meet other international students at UC San 
Diego! Event is open to all. Stop by the Great Hall at I-House and enjoy some light snacks and the company of other new and returning international students from around the world! You will also have a chance to meet some of the departments supporting international students and how you can be a globally engaged Triton here at UC San Diego. Contact: outreachcoord@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/458207675040185/
8pm
THE LOFT PRESENTS RAVEENA - THE 
LOFT
Date: Wednesday, October 2, 2019 Time: Doors 
8:30PM / Show: 9:00PM Location: The Loft UCSD Students - FREE w/ Student ID General Admission - $17 More tickets may be available day-of. Tickets currently sold out. Inspired by artists like Sade, Corinne Bailey Rae, Minnie Riperton, and Indian singer Asha Puthli, Raveena started working on her passionate and gently funky songs after meeting her producer, Everett Orr, about five years ago. Raveena released the gorgeous, romantic EP , Shanti, in 2017, and 2018 saw the release of four ethereal singles. Her debut full-length, Lucid, expands upon the world she began building with her initial releases. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
SEP 30 - OCT 6
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
SCHOOL ITEMSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1.  ‘’___ the grass in the fields ... ’’ 
(Whitman)
5. Foot-shaped form
9. Pound prospect
14. Author Morrison
15. Realm16. Cast mightily17. Quit working
19. Generous donation
20. Some legal actions
21. Elbow counterpart23. Not just any24. Subsurface hazard
26. Come to the rescue
30. Cola mixers
32. Life-changing declaration34. Green Gables girl35. Fly in the ointment
37. Of superior grade
39. Mommy deer?
40. Not available for use43. Canton in Switzerland44. Trumped-up45. They’ll question you46. Invite letters48. Grippe49. Take wing50. Do a slow burn52. Endorphins producer54. Greek letter57. Woofer output59. Refrigerator drawer61. Argo pilot64. Fell to pieces66. Tale of the Trojan War67. City in Yemen68. The vain put them on69. Well-bred Londoners70. Velvety growth71. Lazy Susan, e.g.DOWN
1. Casey was here2. Change shape, in sci-fi3. Not running
4. Place for a finger?
5. Soup dippers
6. Stood up7. Follow a pattern?8. Armored division member
9. Loafers, for example
10. Mother of mercy
11. Certain piano piece12. Sinatra’s Gardner13. It’s tender to the Japanese
18. Drum cover?
22. Wynonna’s mom
25. Braces27. Needing parts28. Condescending type
29. Cold forecast
31. Subject of many a grainy picture
33. Phone call cost, in Bogart films35. Worsens, as relations36. Nightingale or Barton, e.g.37. Survey38. Baltic republic41. Coffeehouses42. One of the seven47. Kennedy’s was 10949. Warning devices51. Clock parts53. Highest points55. ___ firma56. ___-craftsy58. Hoodwink60. Minor quarrel61. Rustic dance62. Hearty pub order63. Steal or lie, e.g.65. Fuss
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardian
CROSSWORD SOLUTION
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
OPEN HOUSE
AND SENATE MEETINGMEET
YOUR
AS
OFFICES!
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 2
5−6pm
PC West Ballroom
FREE PIZZA!FREE PIZZA!JD: Heading into conference play what have 
been some key takeaways you’ve had from non-conference play?JP: Non-conference play just showed us a 
little bit of everything. We’ve been in games 
where we’ve scored a lot of goals; we’ve been 
in games where it’s been a little bit tighter 
and we’ve found ways to win. We’ve been able to come from behind; we’ve been able to come from behind down a goal. I think it’s been a really successful non-conference segment where we’ve learned a lot of lessons that we’re going to need in order to be suc-cessful in our conference. The competition 
in the CCAA is probably the best in Divi-sion II, so every game is going to be a battle and we’re going to need to be at our best. JD: All of your games have been at home except for the San Diego State game [and other exhibitions]. How is preparation for road games diff erent?
JP: We talk a lot about winning on the road. 
To be a championship team, you’ve got to 
win on the road. There’s a lot of little details 
that are diff erent from your home routine 
and you’ve got to be able to focus through 
those. The field is one. On Friday we’ll be up 
at [California State University,] East Bay on a huge turf field and then we travel Saturday 
and play [California State University,] Mon-terrey on a thick grass field, so those little 
details change the way the game is played. They’ll also be playing two completely dif-
ferent styles, so you’ve just got to be able to focus through those details and still do the things that you do well, and not let those things throw you o ff. 
JD: So far, excluding the [San Diego] State exhibition game, you guys have allowed four goals in six games. Is that something you guys stress in practice or something that’s happened naturally with this team?JP: We always stress it. We feel like for us to be there at the end of the season we have to be one of the best defensive teams in the 
country. I have to say that I thought that 
all the goals we’ve let up [so far this sea-
son] were fairly preventable. We preach a 
lot about if the other team is going to score a goal on us they need to be really good. We’re early in the season and I thought we’ve made a couple of mistakes. We’ve looked to clean that up moving into con-ference [play].JD: Moving ahead, it’s your final season in 
DII, does that a ffect recruiting at all?
JP: Y ou know, I think a little bit. There’s 
some excitement around the Division I move for sure. I think for a lot of players they have that DI stigma, they want to be a part of Division I, which I understand; I was the same way as a player. At the same time, they don’t understand how competi-tive Division II is, especially within our 
conference. It’s something we’re excited for 
and it’s something we’re certainly celebrat-ing and talking about without losing focus on this season. My take is we’re not going to think about it too much right now; a fter the 
season we’re going to shift a little bit. But for right now we’ve got some really tough teams we have to play and beat so we’re going to focus on [them]. JD: On the other side of [the move into Di-vision I], has recruiting been hurt by kids not being able to play in the playo ffs for the 
next four years?JP: Y ou know, our whole philosophy in re-
cruiting is to keep it the same in how we’ve 
built the program in Division II, and that’s [been] built on good, hardworking, honest kids that absolutely love UCSD. Most of our guys here had Division-I opportunities but they really loved UCSD. This is where they 
wanted to be, so we want to stick to that and make sure we’re finding the right fit. They’ll 
have to sacrifice postseason but still its the 
University, the environment within the 
school, the academics behind the school, that’s going to attract the kids that we ulti-mately want to get here. JD: I was talking with coach Ricci [Luy-
ties] the women’s volleyball coach and he was basically saying the same thing that it’ll kind of hurt for this year but eventually you’ll get through those four years. JP: It’s not about getting the best kids, it’s about getting the right kids. [Its about get-ting the kids that] fit everything, that are 
happy here outside of soccer. We always think if they’re happy to be here they’re go-ing to perform better. 
UC San Diego men’s soccer came up short last season. The 2019 season will be UCSD’s last season in Division II, marking the last time head coach John 
Pascale and his team will be able to take a shot at a National Championship in the NCAA’s Division II. The UCSD Guardian’s Jack Trent Dorfman got the chance 
to talk with Coach Pascale at practice this week to discuss the current season and the future of the team. Here’s what was said.▶ MEN’S SOCCER , from page 16
Men's soccer
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN, UCSD ATHLETICS16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at CSU Dominguez Hills
at California Baptist Riversidevs Cal Poly Pomonavs Cal Poly PomonaUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
M Water Polo
W Soccer
M Soccer7PM6PM
4:30PM
7PM10/110/210/410/4
PN: What would you say has fueled the hot start?
KJ: We’re one of the most fortunate teams in the country, getting our starting back four back. Three of them came back for their fifth year, and just having that consistency to build on while we were trying to figure out everything in front, gave the other players a little bit of confidence knowing that defensively we were such a strong unit. So it’s allowed us to mature in those offensive areas a lot quicker. We’ve always just said that getting the freshmen as acclimated to being part of UCSD women’s soccer as quickly as possible allows the team to make huge strides. And the team has done that; the team chemistry so far has been really good, and the excitement is there. There’s a lot of factors that go into being successful, and we’re just happy to be where we are.
PN: How does it feel personally to start your first 
season as head coach 5–0?KJ: It would be hard to say we weren’t a little bit nervous going into it. I’ve been part of this program now for 20 years, and knowing the success that the program has had is something I take a lot of pride in. Beforehand, just reflecting on what it’s taken to get there over the past 20 years and understanding what we’d like to hold onto, as well as what we’d like to tweak in the new era of me taking over, but I’m pretty happy with where we are so far. Some of these early games are the hardest games for different reasons, so just getting 5–0 was our team goal to finish this non-conference [stretch] 5–0, and we’re there.PN: Do you or the team place any stock in the No. 1 overall national ranking?KJ: Last year when it happened it was the first time in a 
long time that we had gotten one, so it was something that we wanted to address and celebrate. This year, it was something that we acknowledged, but more as a motivating factor to stay up there. We lost that No. 1 
ranking within the first couple weeks last time, and so 
we just wanted to make sure that we’re up there a little longer. But in Division II, the regional rankings are what matters most, so we’re just making sure we do what we need to be No. 1 regionally. But it wouldn’t be fair to say that we aren’t happy that we’re No. 1. It says a lot about where this program has been, and what these players have done so far.PN: D o  y o u  t h i n k  o t h e r  t e a m s  a p p r o a c h  t h e  m a t c h e s  differently when you’re No. 1?KJ: I do, but we’re used to having the target on our back, and it’s those situations that we thrive in. But in our away game this last week, they were making reference to the fact that we were No. 1 in the nation. I think it’s a little bit of an extra motivating factor for the teams we’re playing against, but I think it does bring 
out the best of us as well.
PN: Looking ahead to conference play, does your team approach matches differently? Is there anything you’re tactically planning for?KJ: T h e  C C A A  s c h o o l s  
— everyone’s getting better 
every year, there’s more parity iån the conference. When it’s a conference game, we do have extra ability to scout some opponents, so we know what programs are all about. But we also know that every year, teams change, whether it’s coaches or just rosters in general. 
Trent [Painter], Greg [LaPorte], and our whole staff 
have done a really good job of scouting opponents beforehand, but with that said, they have the ability to scout us, too. So it does change things, and everyone’s more prepared going into it. But we know that due to our success in conference [play] the past three or four years, we have this target on our backs and it’s going to be there again.PN: What would you say are your goals for finishing 
this season out?KJ: I was an offensive player myself, but I do think that defense wins championships. So we’re just making sure that we stay as compact and organized defensively as possible. It just allows the offensive players a little more freedom to be soccer players, and not overthink it or worry about making mistakes. I think we’ll just build off of what we are. We’ve said all along that if this is the best soccer team we are, at this point in the season, that’s not going to be good enough in the end. So we’re just constantly all over the field looking to improve.PN: Next year, your team transitions into Division I. Is that something you’re thinking about right now?KJ: During the season, we’re just focused on what’s at hand. In the offseason last year, we were thinking ahead slightly. But we’ve noticed that our freshman class this year are phenomenal players and phenomenal athletes, so we saw that happen a bit naturally. I think we have the tools here – we only graduate three after this season, and so the tools are there to start on the right foot in Division I. But at this point in the season, we want it not only to be about the season, but also celebrate the Division-II era in UCSD athletics and what a lot of teams have accomplished, and we’re lucky enough to be one of those teams that’s had a lot of success. So we don’t want to overlook that at all, so right now we’re just getting down to business.PN: NCAA’s Division-I transition rules prevent your team from participating in tournament play for the next four years. Do you think that’s something that’s going to affect your team, and how do you think 
that changed how you look at those seasons in the 
transition?KJ: We thought it was going to be a bigger factor in 
recruiting than it actually has. Some schools have used that against us when we’re recruiting for the same player. But there’s not a lot of Division-I schools that make the playoffs in general. And in the Big West, there’s only really the automatic qualifier that makes it, and every couple of years, you might get one more at-large bid. But for us, we just measure success differently — we still will have the same goals, we still hold ourselves to a high standard. Without the playoff opportunity, we’re still going to try to do our best to win [the] conference every year. Whether or not that puts us in the playoffs doesn’t matter at this point, but it’s going to put us in a position to have the mindset moving forward that when we are eligible, that we’re ready to know what it takes to win [the] conference. So that’s our goal, and we’re just going to have to measure success a bit differently.
UCSD head soccer coaches discuss 
programs’ present and future
UC San Diego soccer has been one of the top 
athletic programs since the school became a 
member of Division II 20 seasons ago. Now, in 
UCSD’s last season in Division II, the women’s 
soccer team will have a new head coach, Kristin 
Jones, who is a veteran coach for the Tritons 
but has never headed the team officially until 
this season. The UCSD Guardian’s Staff Writer 
Praveen Nair got the opportunity to meet with 
Coach Jones at practice this week to discuss the 
current season and the future of the team. Here’s 
what was said. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN, UCSD ATHLETICS
Pra veen  Nair  prNair@ucsd,edu
Triton 
TimeoutHi, I’m second-year sports edi-
tor Jack Dorfman. In this column, 
I’ll take a timeout from discussing specific UC San Diego coaches and student-athletes and instead tackle topics related to sports more broad-ly, whether at UCSD or within pro-fessional leagues. 
This season will be UCSD’s last 
as a Division-II school. While some programs, like water polo and men’s volleyball, have already made the transition into Division I, most of the school’s teams are awaiting the switch that will take place next fall. 
While the buzz around the 
school surrounds next season’s move, there is still plenty to åbe excited about for this season. For one, coaches have expressed that their sta ff and players are excited 
to try to go out on top in Division II and in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, their confer-ence for the last 20 seasons, for the entirety of the university’s stay in Division II. 
Sure, athletes love to be able to 
say they’re playing for a Division-I program, and coaches understand that. However, diminishing the im-portance of what will be the end of a historic era of Division-II success at UCSD would be unfair to all the players who came before and to all the coaches who built their careers through Division-II competition. Four coaches have coached for the entirety of UCSD’s stay in Division II. 
For a significant number of 
UCSD teams, they came up short last season. Whether the losses came in the CCAA tournament or in NCAA tournament play, teams like women’s water polo, women’s basketball, baseball, and so ftball — 
to name a few — are all looking to take steps forward this season and cement their names as the best to ever compete in Division II. On top of those programs, the 
athletics department as a whole came in second place in the 2018-19 NCAA Division II Lear field IMG 
College Directors’ Cup last year, a competition between Division-II athletic programs in their entirety. Ending the school’s Division-II run on top of all the Division-II schools in the country would make for a cinematic ending to what’s been a longstanding tradition of excel-lence in La Jolla.
Running 
through 
importance of 
2019-2020 to UCSD athleticsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduSee MEN’S SOCCER,  page 15woMen's soccer