A coalition of student workers and 
Amer ic an Fe derat ion of St ate, C ou nt y  an d  Mu n i c ip a l  3 2 9 9 
repres ent at ives s ent ne arly 30 delegates to t he Universit y of C a lifor ni a R egents meeting in San Francisco to reiterate their previous demands and protest a variety of 
the UC system’s practices. Students from 
almost ever y UC campus were in attendance, seven of whom came from UC San Diego.
Back in December, a statewide effort of 
student advocac y groups delivered letters 
of demands to all UC chancellors, requiring 
a resp ons e by Jan. 15. Thes e demands included expanding livable wages and stable 
b enef its to a l l UC workers, ending t he 
practice of subcontracting labor, divesting from companies that they cite as having supp or te d  ant i - Pa l e st i n i an  e f for t s ,  and 
ending compliance between campus police 
and federal immigration authorities.
“We got lots of really b------- responses 
from a lot of [our chancellors],” one speaker at San Francisco’s action said. “ They need 
to stand with students. But we’re here to 
tell the Regents that they need to do better.” 
Prajay Lolabattu, a student intern with 
AFSCME 3299 at UCSD and member of the 
UCSD Labor Commission, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the action at the Regents meeting was a response to this inaction from the chancellors.
“ There hasn’t really been a good response 
to [the demands] or any action on that front at all,” Lolabattu said. “ Today’s action was to let them know that we’re not backing down and we’re not going to just forget 
about it.” In a Dec. 17 letter from D waine Duckett, 
v i c e  pre s i d e nt  of  Sy s te mw i d e  Hu m an 
Resources, the UC administration contested 
a number of the student workers’ demands.
“As a matter of course, [the University of 
California] pays its ser vice workers wages 
that are equal to, or are higher than wages 
paid by other employers for similar work in 
the communities surrounding our campuses and medical centers, ” the letter reads.
On the issue of understaffing AFSCME 
workers, Duckett’s letter says, “We work 
hard to fill a number of vacant full-time 
AFSCME ser vice p ositions as quick ly as possible, but today’s ultra-competitive job 
market is a challenging factor. ”
R esp onding to t he c a l ls for t he UC 
s y ste m  to  d ive st  f rom  ant i - Pa l e st i n i an 
companies, Chief Investment Officer and 
Vi c e  Pre s i d e nt  of  Inve st me nt s  Jagd e e p 
Bachher wrote in a Jan. 11 letter, “[the University of California] does not make blanket divestments. Instead, we evaluate our investment opportunities from a risk 
perspective. ”
One of the listed demands is for the UC 
system to establish and “enforce policies 
that will prohibit immigration enforcement 
and deportation activities on grounds and 
premises under UC jurisdiction. ”
In November of 2016, the University of 
California released a statement, declaring that “Campus police officers will not detain 
an individual in response to an immigration 
h ol d  re qu e st  f rom  [ Im m i g r at i ons  an d Customs Enforcement], or any other law e n forc e m e nt  a ge n c y  e n forc i ng  fe d e r a l 
immigration law, unless doing so is required 
California Governor Gavin Newsom 
released his proposal for the 2019-
2020 State Budget, which apportions state funding to all public agencies 
and departments, earlier this month. 
The governor’s plan includes increases in funding for higher education 
and the University of California, 
addressing everything from legal fees for undocumented students to tuition freezes at the UC level. While the UC system is currently set to receive $393 million — $240 million in ongoing 
funds and $153 million to distribute 
among a variety of other causes — this may not be the final amount as the 
budget must still be negotiated and 
approved by the state legislature. 
Of the $153 million for other 
pressing needs that the UC system would 
receive, $138 million would be in one-time grants for deferred maintenance, 
and $15 million be invested in reaching out to these individuals and coming closer to hitting the governor’s goal of 
increased college graduations.
“The Administration will work 
to promote affordability, access, and efficiency in higher education. It will 
also work to ensure higher education and training programs better meet the needs of nontraditional students, ” the VOLUME 52, ISSUE 13  TUESDA Y , JANUAR Y 22, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Westfield UTC 
Begins Charging for Parking in Garage
The move is a partial response to 
students leaving their cars in the 
parking lot for long periods of time. 
CALIFORNIA
BY  Zhuoying Lin
Contributing Writer
Governor Newsom Proposes 6.9 Percent UC System Budget Increase
You n g  g i r l s  prot e s t  du r i n g  t h e  2 0 1 9  Wom e n’s  Marc h  i n  S an  D i e g o.  U C SD  Gu ard i an  / /  P h ot o  by  Fr an c e s c a  Hu m m l e rFinally implementing a long-
anticipated change, Westfield UTC 
will begin charging for parking 
beginning on Jan. 30. According to the new policy, the first two hours 
of parking will still be free, but for 
each additional hour a car is parked, visitors must pay $2 with a daily 
maximum of $15 for vehicles left for 
more than nine hours.
This will be the first time 
UTC charges for parking since the mall opened in 1977. The plan comes in response to some 
people  taking advantage of the free 
parking and leaving their vehicles at UTC while they go elsewhere 
for visits elsewhere, which worsens 
parking access to actual customers. According to a report from CBS8, a 
number of UC San Diego students 
regularly engage in this behavior by parking at the mall for free and then 
busing to campus from the UTC 
Transit Center instead of paying for campus parking.
The new fees are unlikely to 
affect the majority of UTC shoppers, however. The UTC website reports that nearly 85 percent of current 
customers park for less than two 
hours. There will also be exceptions for the visitors of Arclight Cinemas, 
24-Hour Fitness, and the UTC Ice 
Sports Center, who will be eligible to receive validations for extra 
hours of free parking. Meanwhile, 
UTC employees have the option to purchase a $5 daily pass or a $75 
monthly pass. 
UTC will monitor parking 
times through a standard ticketing method.
“Once the secured parking 
plan is implemented, guests will receive a ticket upon entry to the 
parking areas, ” publicist Katherine Odom said in an email response 
to The Guardian. “When their 
trip is complete, they can pay any associated fees utilizing the 
machines availability upon exiting 
the parking areas. ” 
These machines, which are 
primarily located near the elevators, were initially installed when the parking structure opened but have 
been lying dormant since. The 
mall opened the five-level parking structure located off Genesee 
Avenue, which provides 24/7 
parking access and has the parking guidance system with red and green 
lights directing drivers to available By Tyler faurot  News EditorCAMPUS
Coalition of  Students and Workers Protest at Regents MeetingPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
Meeting the basic 
needs of students on 
this campus has been 
a laborious journey. 
Even though a lot of 
progress has been made, 
the sitation is far from 
perfect.
TRANSFER STUDENTS
CHICAGO  HIP-HOPA different approach 
A  Maturing  SoundOpinion,  Page   4
A&E,   Page 12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Technology can 
be the blessing 
of our existence, 
but when it gets 
in the way of our 
productivity, it 
feels more like a 
bane ”TUESDAY
 H 65 L 46
THURSDAY
H 72 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 50
FRIDAY
H 71 L 53
TRANSFERS...................4
A DAY WITHOUT TECH.10
THE FAVORITE...............11
M. BASKETBALL............15
M. WATERPOLO.............16LOCAL
Annika Olives
Technology
 PAGE 9UCSD College Democrats and Republicans each o ffered their takes on the education spending increases.
BY  Rebeca Camacho 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See BUDGET , page 3 See PARKING,  page 3See AFSCME,  page 3A QUEST FOR 
BASIC NEEDS
Features, page 6BE CAREFUL HERE By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. I can’t tell if its 
cold or if my nipples are just mad at me.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Rowena Ma
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 The newly revitalized UC San Diego Speech 
and Debate Team took a second place sweepstakes 
placing in an 18-college, two-competition tournament at Palomar College during the 
weekend of Nov. 16. This tournament marks the 
first competition of the reinvigorated Speech and Debate Team, which has seen a sizeable increase in 
participation since Spring Quarter 2018.
The team, whose numbers were prominent in 
the early 2000s before fluctuating and dwindling, attributes its recent revitalization to proper management and funding resources. The team is 
now under the administration of Coach Robert 
Campbell, a business ethics and marketing professor at the Rady School of Management. According to 
Team President Senior Shaheryar Ajmal, this is one 
of the largest speech and debate teams in UCSD history.
The team received a significant boost in student 
interest during its marketing campaign in Fall Quarter 2018, when Ajmal and other students 
flyered on Library Walk and inserted an ad in the 
“Get Involved” newsletter for incoming freshmen. 
According to Ajmal, out of the 240 people who 
signed up for their mailing list, 30 to 40 students remained as consistent members who attend the 
biweekly meetings. 
While the team earned a total of 18 trophies in 
the November tournament, Campbell’s research of 
the team led him to a collective of 20 found trophies 
from the early 2000s that once resided in the Price 
Center Theatre. Those trophies are now displayed 
at Rady.
After learning of Campbell’s interest in debate, 
Ajmal and several other students approached him in Spring Quarter 2018 with the desire to recruit him as an administrator for the dying Speech and 
Debate Team.“In my classes I talk to students about what 
I want them to get out of my teaching and I 
differentiate between ‘buckets of knowledge’ and the 
skills you should get at a university, ” Campbell told 
the UCSD Guardian. “The three most valuable skills 
that I acquired ... are critical thinking, persuasive 
organized writing, and persuasive speaking. ” 
During the post-2000s decline in membership, 
team members like past president and current team contributor Monica Eslamian would often pay out-
of-pocket fees for tournaments.
“Since it’s always been a club, the problem was 
it didn’t have a faculty advisor, so without a faculty 
advisor, it didn’t have access to any university funding, ” Campbell said. “[Eslamian] spent 
thousands of dollars of personal money to help kids 
go to debate tournaments because it costs money. [The team] really struggled. ”
 Campbell attributes his administrative style to 
his experience in executive management.
“This [was] a debate club on campus that 
[didn’t] really have any leadership anymore, [didn’t] have any resources because it’s not funded by the 
university, and looked a little disorganized, so I 
would just treat it like a turnaround company, ” Campbell said. 
Ajmal echoed his sentiments. “It wasn’t 
as organized and there really wasn’t a clear-cut structure about how things should run, so the team was really good way back in the early 2000s, ” Ajmal said. “[It] competed at national tournaments. … 
The reason it was able to do it was because the team 
had a much solid structure and it was able to get 
various funding resources. ”
The team hopes to grow into an official 
university program so that it may qualify for university funding. 
Since the Speech and Debate Team is still just 
starting and not an official school program, it is 
currently being funded by A.S. Council, Triton 
Funds, and internal contributions, such as Campbell’s $1000 donation to the team’s established 
account with the San Diego County Credit Union. 
As a program, their funding would come directly 
from the school or department they are attached to. 
“Wherever it belongs, it’ll be funded by the 
university as opposed to these kids, ” Campbell stated. 
Their current affiliation with Rady grants them 
access to classrooms for practice sessions, as well as an attachment on the Rady website that links to the 
team’s personal website.
Both Ajmal and Vice President Gavin D’Eelia 
hope to expose UCSD’s science, technology, 
engineering, and math students to communication and public speaking skills through their team.
“I felt that coming to UCSD, I also wanted to 
pursue speech and debate, but there really wasn’t a team, and I felt that we’re a STEM school, but I 
feel that communication skills are so incredibly 
important, and that’s where a lot of STEM majors are lacking, ” Ajmal said. “So with me wanting to compete, plus with me wanting to create a platform where people can improve their communication 
skills, that kind of culminated into a desire to create 
the team. ”
Vice President D’Elia will be president when 
Ajmal graduates. 
“Next quarter will probably be focused on 
getting a program going, ” D’Elia said. “Next year I’m looking toward really making this one of the best programs, assuming Rady takes us on at UCSD, 
so that kids looking to apply to UCSD hear about 
Speech and Debate and think, ‘I want to go to this 
school for obviously the great majors, but one of the 
top reasons is for the speech and debate programs. ’”
The team will compete in a total of five 
tournaments in Winter Quarter, during the weekends of Weeks 2, 3, 5, 6,and 7.CAMPUS
Speech and Debate Team Membership Surges with the Arrival of  a New Coach from Rady
The Speech and Debate Team saw its numbers decline a fter the early 2000s, partially because the students had to pay to participate in tournaments.
BY  Madeline Leon 
STAFF WRITER
Madeline  Leon  m7leon@ucsd.eduparking spots. 
The new parking policy comes at 
a time when parking policies in La 
Jolla are becoming more and more 
strict. In September of last year, the La Jolla Community Planning Association voted to ratify a two-
hour parking limit along the busy 
North La Jolla Scenic Drive with the explicit intent of discouraging students from parking. In the coming week, the PGA tour will 
be hosted at the Torrey Pines Golf 
Course, and week-long parking limits will be enforced along Torrey Pines Scenic Drive, the street 
leading up to Gliderport.
Along with the new parking fee, 
UTC plans to introduce several 
new parking updates to better accommodate the growing number of customers as a result of newly arrived stores and restaurants. by law or unless an individual 
has been convicted of a serious 
or violent felony. ”
T h e  l i s t  of  d e m an d s 
delivered to the UC chancellors 
cites this statement to critique 
the UC system for instances of 
ICE agents appearing on UC 
campuses. The list demands 
that the UC system enforce its 
own policy.
In response to this demand, 
a letter dated Jan 11. was sent from Alexander Bustamante, the Senior Vice President of the UC’s Office of Ethics and 
Compliance. 
“ T h e  Ta s k  Forc e  for 
Un i v e r s i t y w i d e  P o l i c i n g submitted [its] f inal draft 
report with recommendations to the President in the end of December 2018,” Bustamante’s 
letter reads. “The President will 
consider the recommendations 
and provide feedback. ”
At the Regents meeting, the 
UC Student Labor Coalition 
listed their demands to a public 
comment panel of Regents, 
including UC President Janet 
Napolitano, during the time 
allotted for public comment at 
the Regent’s meeting.
As UC Santa Cruz student 
protester Viviana Salinas told 
the Guardian, “Napolitano was just staring at us, but wasn’t 
really reacting in any way. As 
soon as we started to chant, they all left. ”
“They don’t actually want to 
hear what we have to say, ” said protester Karter Lowell. Kathryn Lybarger, president 
of AFSCME 3299, addressed the crowd.
“These fights are bigger than 
each individual, and they also 
come down to each individual: 
ever y parent like me who wants 
to send his or her their kid to 
college, or ever y parent, like 
my predominantly black and 
brown co-workers, who need 
to send their kids to college, 
every kid here whose parents 
or guardians struggle to send you here,” Ly b arger s aid. “Ever y parent like me who 
wants to send his or her kid to 
college, or ever y parent, like my predominantly black and 
brown co-workers, who need 
to send their kids to college, every kid here whose parents or guardians struggle to send 
you here. Our ability to win 
this comes down to us never 
quitting. ”
“We will continue to put 
pressure on the Regents to hold 
them accountable,” Lolabattu 
said. “They’re in those positions 
because they’re supposed to 
be representing the students 
and the workers. The fact that 
they’re not responding is an 
issue. ”
Lolabattu also said that it 
was important for students 
to recognize how much of an 
impact the issues have for 
them.
“Students don’t get fed or 
housed or have their dorms cleaned without these workers,” Lolabattu told the Guardian. “Even though it might seem like 
these are strictly worker-related 
issues, our issues are really 
tied. The only way we resist 
the University of California is 
by creating solidarity between 
workers and students. ”
“We will be standing here 
one day, celebrating the victory that we’ve won,” Lybarger told 
the crowd.
The chair of the task force 
examining policing policies in the UC system will hold two remaining town hall meetings with students and student 
leadership at UC Ir vine and 
UC Santa Barbara to address questions and concerns.
NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
The Protestors Initially Presented a List of  Demands to the Chancellors of  all T en Campuses and Followed Up at the Meeting
▶ AFSCME , from page 1
TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.edu
Zhuoying Lin  zhl509@ucsd.eduGov. Newsom Seeks to Address the Thousands of  Students Who Dropped Out UTC Rules Further Limit Parking Near Campus
▶ BUDGET , from page 1 ▶ PARKING , from page 1
TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.edu Andrew HA  AH1A@ucsd.eduhigher education section of the budget 
proposal said. 
Of the boasted 6.9 percent budget 
increase compared to that of last year going toward funding of the UC system,  Newsom quoted $49.9 million to tackle degree completion and further 
assistance to the number of graduates 
from disadvantaged backgrounds. This 
proposal is contingent on the university 
not raising tuition, however.
In his speech delivered on Jan. 10 
introducing the budget, Gov. Newsom emphasized the need for the UC 
system to address its population of 
“near-completers, ” or students with 
unfinished degrees. Since 2000, Gov. 
Newsom reported that an estimated 
60,000 people dropped out of the 
university with remaining credits to completion of a bachelor’s degree. As a solution to this issue, he pointed towards 
bolstering the UC extension program 
— the continuing education arm of the university — as a potential solution and claimed that is underutilized and should be further explored as a more 
flexible and less time-consuming 
educational facility. 
A range of political and academic 
institutions have come forward, 
advocating for and against the budget’s 
behalf.  
Brianna Brawley, president of the 
UCSD College Democrats spoke out in 
approval of the budget’s objectives.
“Governor Gavin Newsom’s budget 
absolutely represents a new era of California spending … in which the 
priorities of higher education and the struggles of California students across the three levels of California campuses 
are being recognized and fought for, ” 
Brawley told the UCSD Guardian.
The UCSD College Republicans 
spoke out in disapproval on issues of government promotion of furthering 
student graduations. 
“In the broader sense, we would like 
to affirm, that many of the 17 million 
jobs open in this country right now 
do not require college degrees, ” the 
College Republicans said in a collective statement to The Guardian. “Stuffing 
people through the UC and CSU 
system only lowers BA standards and 
inflates the value of an undergraduate 
degree. Real changes would be far 
more fundamental than the current 
approach. ”4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
FOLLOW 
US ON 
SOCIAL 
MEDIA!
Facebook.com/
ucsdguardian
Instagram:
 @ucsdguardian
Twitter: 
@ucsdguardian
Unsightly and seemingly never-ending 
construction has quickly become 
a staple of UC San Diego, from 
academic structures like the Tata Institute for Genetics and Society to art pieces like “What Hath 
God Wrought”. The development of the North 
Torrey Pines Living and Learning Community is no 
different. The ambitious project is projected to be 
completed in 2020 and has already been met with 
extensive opposition from both students as well 
as La Jolla residents. Originally planned to house 
transfer students, the infrastructure will not only 
further estrange transfer students from the rest of 
the student body but also expose the lack of transfer resources here on campus.
Despite the unique sustainable design, the fact 
that the construction itself temporarily wiped out 
over 900 parking spots was an immediate warning 
to many students. It is also condensed into an area 
of North Torrey Pines Road that is a significant 
entrance into campus and a main source of traffic 
to La Jolla residents. Several local residents are 
developing a platform against the development 
program, complaining of both overcrowding and 
traffic issues. In an attempt to elicit undergraduate input, the development committee enlisted the use 
of a task force given the responsibility to develop the slogan, objectives, and focuses for the new 
college. 
In the original meeting of the Planning Task 
Force, the students reported their consideration 
to create the new institution solely for transfer 
students. The action is precedented by the desire 
to surround transfers with a unified community 
and to develop a centralized college with resources 
and support for transition. The exact goal of the 
proposition was to prepare transfer students for 
graduation the moment they arrived on campus.
However, the movement of all transfers into 
one singular area only promotes their alienation 
from the rest of the student body by separating them from non-transfer students who possess a 
better knowledge of campus resources and events. 
It is no secret that UCSD has not prioritized the 
transfer experience in the last several years. In 
2017, the university offered money to transfers to 
move off campus in an attempt to remedy the on-
campus housing crisis. Transfer students already 
face a difficult challenge: they have three or less 
years to develop relationships with professors, find 
recommendation letters, get involved on campus, 
and prepare for life post-graduation. It would By: Rajee Ganesan  //  Sta ff WriterUC San Diego Must Prioritize the Needs of 
Transfer Students in Its Construction Projects 
See TRANSFER, page 5UCSDOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
be a disservice to further estrange 
the transfer population from the 
rest of the student body, so the 
future Seventh College should 
remain a traditional college for 
planning purposes.
UCSD’s undergraduate 
population clocks in at over 
26,000 students, and 32 percent 
of that figure is comprised of 
transfer students. Shockingly, 
the school boasts little to 
no resources allocated to 
transfer students alone; the decentralization empowered 
by the college system moves 
the responsibility for transfer 
advising and resources to 
each college. However, most 
transfers don’t live anywhere 
near their college of enrollment 
and advising centers. The 
majority live in The Village at 
Torrey Pines on the north end of 
campus, disassociated from both 
their college and the rest of the 
student body.
Instead of creating housing 
or a college solely for transfer students, the university must 
develop a centralized transfer 
resource center that extends 
past each college’s system of 
handling transfers. By doing so, 
UCSD will not only alleviate 
the college’s responsibility 
to provide transfers with 
complete advising resources, 
but also highlight the fact that the university prioritizes the 
needs and goals of their transfer 
students. 
This measure will also 
put UCSD on par with other 
University of California schools; 
UCLA, UC Santa Barbara, and 
UC Berkeley both boast transfer 
student centers and resources 
allocated solely for their transfer 
students. And with no surprise 
— these schools have the highest 
two-year transfer graduation and 
retention rates among the UC System, surpassing UCSD by 
nearly 10 percent.
Regardless whether or not 
NTPLLC will be an institution 
solely for transfer students, 
college housing for transfers 
only will further alienate those 
students from the student 
body and make it increasingly 
difficult to develop relationships 
and student adjustment in UCSD 
culture. However, the discussion 
has brought to light the need for transfer inclusion and support 
here on campus, and the steps 
that must be taken to ensure that 
transfer students leave with the 
resources and education that 
they came for.
UNTITLED FOLDER  By System 32
Rajee  Ganesan     ▶ TRANFER , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG AND MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.org
If you’re a college student, chances are you’ve experienced 
food insecurity: a lack of access to food that is both affordable 
and nourishing. Food insecurity is part of a larger measure of 
circumstances known as basic needs, which are the minimum 
necessities for well-being. Food, shelter, access to healthcare, and other means of security are all considered basic needs.
In the 2016 UC Global Food Initiative’s Student Food Access 
and S e c ur ity Study, students across UC campus es rep or te d that they often encountered barriers to food access. Thirty-
nine percent of participants cited cost as a barrier, 48 percent 
reported lack of time to prepare food, and 46 percent reported 
lack of time to shop for food. These rates were about 5 percent 
higher for students who identified as food insecure.  
But such large numbers of UC students — including food-
secure students — who are experiencing barriers to food demonstrates how widespread this issue is. Challenges to 
sust aining fo o d access and 
basic needs plague the entire UC system.
Yet, in spite of t he fac t 
t h at  4 4  p e rc e nt  of  U C u n d e r g r a d u a t e s  a n d  2 6 percent of graduate students 
h a v e  e x p e r i e n c e d  f o o d 
insecurity, it remains a highly stigmatized issue. Students who are privileged with food security may look down on their 
peers who cannot afford food. In turn, food-insecure students 
might be too embarrassed to reach out for assistance.
 Alexis Wesley, a John Muir C ollege sophomore who ser ves 
as outreach manager for the Triton Food Pantr y, discussed the stigma surrounding food insecurity.
“ There might be people who are embarrassed to visit the 
pantr y or other resources on campus,” she said. “We need to identif y that this is a widespread problem and no one should be ashamed to look for help. ”
UCSD’s 2016 Basic Needs Report provides a sense of what 
food insecurity looks like at UCSD specifically. One barrier to fulfilling basic needs is the discrepanc y between the estimated 
cost of attending UCSD and the actual cost of living in L a Jolla, 
which is 79 percent higher than the national average. 
Basic Needs C oordinator, Alicia Magallanes noted, “We need 
changes in the housing market; we need affordable rent. Even 
people who are working can barely afford rent in San Diego, let alone be a student!”
Another barrier to basic needs that is prevalent at UCSD is 
the challenge of transportation and parking. B ecause the campus has limited parking and is situated away from other areas of San 
Diego, students often have trouble getting to and from campus 
and thus have limited options for the food and health care resources they can utilize. 
Student populations that are especially vulnerable to food 
and housing insecurity, according to the Basic Needs Report, include memb ers of lower income brackets, f irst-generation 
college students, and first-generation immigrants. Members of the LGBTQ community also represent an at-risk population, as 
their families may not support their identities and, by extension, 
be unwilling to provide for them financially. 
What may be surprising to some is that middle-class students 
are at risk for lack of food and housing. These students can come 
from families with income levels that are too high to qualif y 
for financial aid but too low to cover the cost of attendance for 
college.
Wesley talked about which populations of students are using 
the pantry’s services more often.
“You’d think upperclassmen would be more food insecure 
because they tend to live off campus and don’t have dining plans, 
but  we  are  f i nd i ng 
from our data that a lot of lowerclassmen are st i l l visit ing t he 
pantry, ” she said.
O n  J a n .  1 5 , 
t h e  U C  B o a rd  of 
Regents met with the 
university system’s  
S p e c i a l  C o m m i t t e e on Basic Needs at UC 
S an  Fr an c i s c o.  T h e 
committee discussed  t he  pro g re ss  it  has 
made since UC President Janet Napolitano launched the Global 
Food Initiative in 2016. The initiative seeks to develop solutions 
for food, health, and sustainability throughout the UC system and beyond.
“ There’s no other system in the countr y that is doing this. 
There’s no ot her system in t he count r y t hat has b elie ve d in students’ b asic ne e ds t he way t hat [t he Universit y of 
California] has,” said  Chair of the Basic Needs C ommittee Ruben 
Canedo said before continuing on to the committee’s model for preventing food, housing, and financial insecurity.Part of what was discussed at the UC Regents meeting was how, in comparison 
to other UC campuses, UCSD is at the forefront of implementing 
resources for students who are in need. 
“What has been made so effective in a relatively short period 
of time, as we alluded to, is our collaborative planning for our 
Basic Needs C ommittee, where students, staff, and faculty are 
all gathered to gather input and identif y what we need to do for our next steps,” Magallanes said during her presentation on basic needs ser vices at UCSD.“Our off-campus community 
partnerships have been critical toward achieving our goals ... the 
San Diego C ounty Health and Human S er vices Administration, the San Diego Hunger C oalition, and the San Diego Food Bank 
are all on our side, where we have launched the single largest 
ser vice day enrollment for CalFresh opportunity for our students in the county. ”
“Both the Triton Food Pantry and The Hub 
were established in the last four years. Changes 
at UCSD are far from over, however; this 
year, the Basic Needs Committee is focusing 
on expanding housing support and CalFresh 
access. ” 
The UC's 
Quest 
for 
Basic 
Needs
Ever since the 
University of California launched its Global Food Initiative in 2016, UC San Diego has made efforts to alleviate 
food, housing, and fi nancial 
insecurity for its students. Th e 
UCSD Guardian spoke with some of UCSD’s basic needs resource centers to discuss their progress so far and what still needs to be done.
By Jade Knows His Gun-Wong 
//Features Co-
Editor
SeeBASIC NEEDS , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Jade Knows His Gun-wong  jknowshi@ucsd.edu▶ BASIC NEEDS , from page 6
The Triton Food Pantr y is one ser vice that the university has implemented to help fight food insecurity. Located in the Old 
Student C enter, the pantr y is open to all undergraduate and graduate students. Visitors to the pantr y can grab free food items, 
including canned goods and fresh produce, based on a point system that regulates how many items students are allowed and how 
often they can come into the pantry.
Next door to the Triton Food Pantry is The Hub, another holistic resource for students experiencing food or housing 
insecurity. In addition to providing free recovered food and a comfortable study space for students, The Hub assists with emergenc y financial aid and emergenc y housing programs for students in need. Another important facet of The Hub’s mission 
is guiding students through the application process for CalFresh, a program that provides funds toward buying food.
B oth the Triton Food Pantr y and The Hub were established in the last four years. Changes at UCSD are far from over, however ; 
this year, the Basic Needs Committee is focusing on expanding housing support and CalFresh access.
Though the university has made terrific progress in the past few years toward securing basic needs, there remains much to 
be done across the UC system.
“[The University of California] needs to not just sustain this effort, but we need to increase it to the need that exists … 
what [the Basic Needs C ommittee] has done with the money that we’ve gotten is the best that we could with the money that we 
[were given], ” Canedo said. “But if you asked us right now, at each campus, how much percentage of the need they are actually 
addressing, we are nowhere near.” We are nowhere near even 30 percent of students signed up to CalFresh; we are not at 30 
percent in serving the students who are experiencing the highest levels of food insecurity through our pantries; and we are not at 30 percent in educating all of our first-year students to prevent … those challenges. ”
At UCSD in particular, issues such as parking limitations and insufficient on-campus housing have been left unaddressed. 
Although the university is currently constructing new on-campus residences for undergraduates, graduate students are faced with the eventual conversion of two on-campus graduate residences into undergraduate housing. This means fewer low-cost, convenient living options for graduate students in the near future.
It takes months and months of collaboration and strategizing to form solutions to problems like these. For now, the university 
is on the path to eliminating basic needs insecurity, one step at a time.
With a wear y, yet contented smile, Magallanes explained, “It takes a village, it takes a village. If you don’t have lots of people 
in your village who care and are committed, it’s super hard. [For] ever yone who’s in our village, we are really grateful and 
mindful to respect energy and respect that this takes a lot of people’s time on top of everything that’s happening already. ”
FOLLOW 
AND LIKE
US ON
 SOCIAL
MEDIA
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
insta: @ucsdguardian
Twitter: @ucsdguardian
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT AND CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
College is stressful and definitely does not spark joy for most undergraduates; 
however, one of the greatest advantages of being a college student now is the 
incredible amount of technology you have access to. Whether it’s remembering your 
schedule or building your portfolio, there are so many incredible things you might 
not know about that will make your life much easier. Here are some of my favorite 
things that I have discovered to help you keep life organized.
UC San Diego App
While this is most likely common knowledge, the UC San Diego App is probably the 
most practical one on my phone besides Facetune. Once you sign in, it displays your 
schedule, which, if you are anything like me, you need to look at every 10 minutes 
to make sure you don’t get lost. It also has other cards, like Parking Lot Watch (right 
now it only covers one lot but it is being updated) and Dining Hall menus, that you 
can customize to your preference. The app covers all the essentials that a UCSD 
student could need.
TapRide/Triton Rides
This is the free carpool app that is provided for by the Community Service Officer 
Program. If you download the TapRide app and sign up with your student email, it 
will allow you to request a free ride between 8 p.m.-8 a.m. As long as the pickup point 
originates on campus, you can request a ride up to 10 miles from UCSD. This service 
is perfect for when you have a late night discussion or study session at Geisel Library, 
and you don’t want to take the bus. 
Charging Stations
Throughout Price Center, there are several phone charging stations for iPhones and 
Androids. I know of the ones in the Commuter Lounge, next to Bombay Coast, 
outside of Price Center Ballroom West, and the lobby of Price Center Theater. The 
one in the Commuter Lounge is just multiple exposed wires but the others are a 
lockbox. You simply put your phone in, set a four-digit password and go off to class. 
When you return, just punch your code in and it will be fully charged and ready to use. This is perfect if you are an anxious commuter like me and need to make sure 
you have enough charge to open up the new San Diego Metropolitan Transit System 
app.
Digital Media Lab
On the second floor of Geisel is the most slept-on resource on campus. Students have 
access to a 3D printer, VR Headsets, and computers with Adobe Creative Suite and 
CAD software. This is a perfect opportunity to build your portfolio with start-up 
ideas and try your hand at prototyping. But if you don’t feel like making the hike to 
Geisel from off-campus, you can get a discount on Adobe Creative Cloud with your 
student email. 
Thinkful Seminars
If you feel like getting off campus, I highly suggest attending a Thinkful workshop. 
The company Thinkful offers several free programming workshops and webinars, to 
peak interest in the data science community. This includes everything from HTML/
CSS to designing your own web app. While this is open to the public, I generally 
seemed to be in the company of college-aged young professionals looking to add 
skills to their resume. The instructors are so patient and provide guidance about other 
projects that could pique your interest. They also have webinars that offer a similar 
experience if you are not able to make it to their location in Little Italy. They are all 
available on the San Diego Thinkful Eventbrite page: https://www.eventbrite.com/o/
thinkful-san-diego-14840722920 
While college might be stressful, remember all the incredible resources that you have 
access to. This is just the tip of the iceberg I’m sure, but hopefully it will pique your 
interest enough to make you consider using technology for more than binge-watching 
Marie Kondo and making memes.Plugged In The Know: A Guide to Digital Resources For 
College Students
I am Addicted to my Phoneby Natalie Duprey // Lifestyle Staff Writer
by Natalie Duprey // Lifestyle Staff Writer
My name is Natasha Vandamme, and I am addicted to my phone. I love posting 
about what I do, where I go, who I am with, and what is going on in my life. I 
guess being addicted to technology is not rare nowadays; however, teenage girls are 
especially stereotyped as being obsessed with their phones. I think I go above and beyond this stereotype. I check all of my social media apps at least five times just 
while getting ready in the morning. I am on my phone constantly even when hanging 
out with friends and family. I have four Instagram accounts and two Twitter accounts. It may seem excessive, but to me and other social media addicts, this is quite normal.
Social media keeps people connected. It helps me stay updated with my friends’ 
lives and world events because I’m gonna be honest, I don’t watch the news regularly … or at all; that’s what social media and the News app is for! Adding to that, social 
media is so entertaining. Twitter is ridiculously funny; the things that people think 
sometimes truly amaze me. And, who could forget memes? Social media is the world in the palm of our hands. To me, it is not merely entertaining or educational, but 
necessary in my everyday life.
Because of this obsession with social media, I decided to challenge myself to not 
use any social media sites for 24 hours. For most people, this is not an impressive feat, but for anyone who knows me, this is virtually impossible. I deleted Facebook, 
Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, and even Pinterest from my phone and kept a log to track how I felt throughout the day.
12 a.m.: It is midnight, and I am ready to start this challenge.2:03 a.m.: I would normally check all my social media apps before going to bed, 
but I can’t! I guess I’ll just go to bed.
7:55 a.m.: I woke up and did not check my social media. It felt weird. Also, 
getting ready while not being on Instagram or Twitter feels strange and … boring. I 
accidentally swiped to where Instagram would be on my phone and ended up opening 
up a different app because it is not there anymore!
9:52 a.m.: I am in class and want to check Twitter so badly, but alas, I cannot.11:11 a.m.: Something funny happened, and I wanted to tweet about it but had 
to refrain. On the other hand, I focused in class and am getting homework readings 
done more quickly. So, I guess that’s good.
12:49 p.m.: I did homework and am now bored in my apartment. I have reverted 
to scrolling through my camera roll as a substitute for social media.
1:19 p.m.: I just got a Twitter email notification saying, “5 notifications ready and 
waiting just for you. ” Are you kidding me? That is as tempting as it gets. My friend 
had to slap my phone out of my hand to keep me from going on Twitter.
5:58 p.m.: Currently sitting in a three hour night class that ends at 7:50pm. Very 
bored. Want to go on Twitter.
8:34 p.m.: Bored watching Hulu and want to go on Twitter. It’s getting harder to 
resist …
12 a.m.: Finally reunited with social media. Excited and ready to tweet about the 
new Ariana Grande song. The world is at peace again.
As hard as today was, I got through it with the help of my friends keeping me in 
check and constantly entertained. I never thought my phone detracted from feeling 
more connected with people in real life, but after today, I realize that it does. Also, 
I paid more attention in class and did my homework fairly quickly. Without the distractions from notifications, I enjoyed uninterrupted time with friends and felt 
more connected to the world around me. Lastly, Twitter and Instagram are great 
social media sites, but they take away from prime napping time. I realized that before I take a nap, I sit on Twitter and Instagram for a long time and end up losing half an 
hour of sleep! What a waste.
I’ll admit, this experience was not revolutionary. I don’t feel completely different 
or changed, but I have gained an appreciation for being on my phone less. I probably won’t be attempting this “challenge” again, but I might just use social media a bit 
less. For other social media addicts reading this, I challenge you to take a break from social media. Y es, it is not the easiest feat, but believe me, it’s worth a try.LIFESTYLE       T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  2 2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
 by Annika Olives // Lifestyle EditorHow To Be More Productive (Sans Technology)
Technology can be the blessing of our existence, but when it gets in the way 
of our productivity, it feels more like a bane. Many people have taken to brief 
social media “cleanses” or simply deleting apps entirely, but if you love your Instagram aesthetic too much, there are ways you can reduce technology use 
without getting rid of it completely. 
Commit to not looking at your phone during classI used to fall victim to looking at my texts or checking Instagram during 
class; it was so tempting, especially if the subject or the professor wasn’t all 
that interesting. However, I found that not paying attention in lecture made it more difficult as the weeks went on since I didn’t have time to re-teach myself all the material. Last school year, I made it an effort to put my phone 
in a zipped-up pocket of my backpack and not take it out until the class was 
over. It helps a lot — I have a better knowledge of the subjects that are being taught and feel more confident when studying because I’m already familiar with the topics. 
Turn on “do not disturb” on your laptop
If you like typing notes out during lecture or studying online, put your 
window in full screen and turn on your laptop’s “do not disturb” mode. You’ll 
be more focused and are less likely to be distracted by notifications. If you 
still find that your laptop is too distracting, try taking notes by hand and see how that feels. 
Put your phone in a different room 
If you like to study at home, leave your phone in a different room while you 
work. This way, you have to get up and interrupt your flow if you want to see your phone. Out of sight, out of mind. 
Delete unnecessary apps I deleted Facebook off my phone a while ago because I found all the 
notifications excessive. While there was probably a way to turn off those 
alerts, it was helpful because now I have to consciously enter Facebook’s URL if I want to see the site. A lot of social media sites can feel mindless, and 
this tip forces you to be more intentional about what social media sites you 
actually want to frequent. 
Know when to unplug
If you’re spending a lot of time before bed watching Netflix or scrolling 
through Facebook, set an allotted amount of time so you still go to sleep at a reasonable time. While it can be hard to leave mid-episode of Friends, your body will thank you the following morning and you’ll be able to start the day 
well-rested. 
Use technology in beneficial ways You don’t have to omit technology from your daily life completely; instead, 
find ways to fit it into your daily schedule in more effective ways. On your 
bus ride home, open up a Quizlet and go through a few flashcards. Take your few minutes before class to answer emails that you’ve been putting off. During passing period, listen to podcasts from people in your field to learn 
something new. 
While a lot of these tips are about omitting distractions, another thing that is 
important to remember is that you control your technology and social media, not the other way around. Y our friends will understand if you don’t respond 
to your texts right away, and your Facebook notifications can wait. Digital 
technology is one of the most powerful inventions yet, but don’t let it take over your life. 10                                                                         T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  2 2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
“Bandersnatch” brings us a step closer to a long sought-a fter interactive experience, but fails to deliver much else.
Often known for his surreal 
and outlandish cinematic p i e c e s ,  d i re c t o r  Yo r g o s 
Lanthimos helms a new period comedy-drama, “ The Favourite.” S et in the 18th centur y dur ing Q ue en Anne’s reig n over Gre at Br it ain, “ The Favor ite” 
fo c us e s  on  t wo  wome n’s  b el l i c o s e 
rivalr y as they claw for p ower and attention from their majesty, Queen Anne. Rife with twisted schemes and tense hostility, the film emanates outre 
and chilling tones that are right up 
L anthimos’ alley, giving the audience a toxic yet fathomable look into those who are willing to acquire prestige by 
any means necessar y. 
H i s t o r i c a l l y,  t h e  r e a l  Q u e e n 
Anne had a bad reputation; she was 
labeled by historians as a sickly and unsuit able success or for t he t hrone 
of  Gre at  Br it ai n .  “ T he  Favou r ite” 
comically emphasizes these negative traits to showcase how out of touch Q u e e n  A n n e  ( O l iv i a  C ol m an )  i s 
w it h her count r y’s p olit ics, as her 
incompetence and unkemptness is only handled by her advisor and right-hand woman, Sarah Churchill (R achel Weisz). Among bumbling aristocrats, 
Sarah keeps the palace running like 
a well-oiled machine with her secure p osition of p ower. However, Sarah’s c ous i n  Abi g ai l  Hi l l  ( E m ma  Stone ) unexpectedly arrives to interrupt this status quo. Having been stripped of 
her nobility, Abigail initially sits at the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder. 
However, using her wits and charm, she gradually clambers her way to the 
top in order to make a stable living. As 
she attempts to usurp Sarah’s standing as the queen’s confidante, the movie branches into heated drama, diabolical 
acts, and lovers’ quarrels.
Visually, the film is stunning. The 
camera captures the opulent interior 
f i l le d w it h sp acious chamb ers t hat c ons i s t  of  b lu i s h - g re y  hu e s  an d 
wooden corridors, giving off a cold 
yet palatial atmosphere. Each location seems standoffish and unwelcoming, paralleling  the nature of the characters. 
The queen’s ro om is als o distinctly 
laced with gold-patterned tap estries and ornate baroque walls as if to f launt her exclusive monarchal lifestyle that fe els is ol at ing yet luxur ious. Many 
shots of t he charac ters are at low 
angles to seemingly exhibit a theme of superiority, tying back to the adversaries attempting to outshine each 
other. Even the choice of orchestral 
music, involving nimble string plucks or raspy violin s cratches, heightens some prolonged, disorienting angles. Without a doubt, “ The Favourite” has 
its own histrionic f lair. 
T h e  a r i s t o c r a t i c  s e t t i n g  i s 
juxtaposed with the sordid lifestyles 
of t hos e liv ing in hig h aut hor it y. Officials participate in hyperbolized buffooner y, such as duck races, pie 
throwing, and extravagant dancing,  w h i ch  c an  b e  f lu m mox i ng  to  t he 
audience. But their high-class antics exude a satirical element that makes 
certain scenes ridiculously funny and 
off-putting. These absurdities show the audience the time-wasting nons ens e these higher-ups indulge in. 
In many ways, the battle for 
dominance between Abigail and Sarah relates to sur vival of the fittest. This is particularly seen through Abigail’s character, who starts to become more 
tenacious and hard-headed in a deluxe 
dog-eat-dog world. But Abigail grows manipulative and power-hungr y as she attempts to win the queen’s affection. 
She  us e s  ch i c ane r y  and  l i c e nt i ous 
ploys, w hich s e em to sp e c u l ate on the real behind-the-scenes world of a lavish, regal era. As much as Abigail’s actions are for self-gain, they are also 
self-sacrificial. The audience sees how 
her inclusion in the narrative readjusts the cordial bond between Queen Anne and Sarah. Abigail’s presence catalyzes 
e a c h  c h ar a c t e r’s  d ow nw ard  s pi r a l 
toward avarice and envy, the stor y’s key themes.
Iron i c a l ly,  t he  t h re e  char a c te rs’ 
ugly relationship is acted beautifully 
by the three lead actresses’ cohesive 
performances. Emma Stone’s natural charisma in playing an underdog-tur ne d-v ic tor is fas cinat ing as she depicts Abigail’s playful and villainous sides. Clashing with Stone’s Abigail, 
Weisz’s Sarah is stern and headstrong with moments of emotional weakness. 
Finally, C olman’s Golden Globe win for B est Ac t ress for playing Q ue en 
Anne is justified for the brilliance of 
her portrayal of the monarch. C olman acts with a facetiously temperamental, sp oi le d disp osit ion t hat a ls o masks 
t h e  qu e e n’s  a ch i ng ,  l on e ly  h e ar t . 
Witnessing this pitiful duality in her character, the audience is left repulsed yet sympathetic towards her. In fact, the three women all have layered,  
t h re e - d i m e n s i on a l  p e r s on a s  f i l l e d 
wit h blemishes, vu lnerabi lit ies, and contradictions, which make them feel all the more rich and alive on screen.
“ The Favorite” is a niche cinematic 
pi e c e,  but  it  ke e p s  t he  au d i e nc e i n t e r e s t e d  w i t h  i t s  i m p e r f e c t char a c te rs .  It  t r i ang u l ate s  b e t we e n three f lawed yet resilient women, and 
the ac tress es’ p erformances as such 
are t ransf ixing. It is a wicke d and g iddy stor y ab out p ower st r ug g les and isolation, giving the audience a 
glimpse into the farcical, perverse,  
and doleful acts that ensue in a place of seemingly worthy standard. “The Favorite” is memorable in its visuals and narrative, having viewers enjoy 
the mischievous spectacle that unfolds 
before them.
—Chloe  Esser
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
The f a vorite
PHOTO COURTESY OF TIME.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF CONVERSATIONABOUTHER.COM
Directed by   Yorgos Lanthimos  
Starring  Olivia Colman, Emma Stone, Rachel Weisz, Nicholas Hoult, Joe Alwyn
Release Date  November 23, 2018
Rated  RCA
SINGLE   REVIEW
Get Enough
Sung by   Paul McCartney
Written by  Ryan Tedder and Paul McCartney
Release Date  January 1, 2019CCThe new year is barely 
underway, and Sir 
Paul McCartney is 
already back with new music; 
this time in the form of a single. The track, titled “Get Enough,” 
arrives only four months after 
his latest solo album, “Egypt Station. ” “Get Enough” is co-written and produced alongside 
McCartney by contemporary 
pop-rock musicians Ryan Tedder and Zach Skelton, marking the 
third collaboration between 
McCartney and Tedder. The song reflects a drastic shift in the musical approach of the former 
Beatle. Although it embodies 
the traditional soft rock piano ballad and the expected theme 
of the idiosyncrasies of love and 
relationships that McCartney fans have come to expect, it also heavily relies upon Auto-tune. 
Yet it is not utilized as a means 
to improve McCartney’s voice, but rather to roughen, distort, and manipulate his vocals to the 
point of mechanical crooning. 
While this sudden shift in 
style may initially come across 
as bewildering and shocking, 
one must remember that the Beatles, especially in their later 
years, possess a history of sonic 
experimentation. In evaluating 
this factor, the introduction of Auto-tune in McCartney’s music can thus be seen as both a logical 
technical and artistic step in the 
career of an innovative musician. At the age of 76, it is no secret that McCartney’s voice is not 
what it used to be. Consequently, 
the audio processing software has the practical effect of 
masking the deficiencies within 
his vocals. Moreover, in the last few years, Paul McCartney has associated and collaborated 
with more experimental musical 
artists, namely Kanye West, who has made heavy use of Auto-
tune in his albums, “808s & 
Heartbreak” and “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy.” West has a track record of influencing 
many of his contemporary 
collaborators such as Kid Cudi and Bon Iver to embrace the artificial sound of Auto-tune. 
In retrospect, it is unsurprising 
that a musician such as Paul McCartney would New year, new me. Paul McCartney makes a predictable 
stylistic U-turn in his latest single, “Get Enough. ”
See MCCARTNEY , page 11A&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
▶ MCCARTNEY , from page 10
at least attempt to incorporate it 
into his discography.
However, although “Get 
Enough” is an inventive and revolutionary track, it is not necessarily a good one. The 
application of Auto-tune 
seems erratic and choppy, as McCartney oscillates in rapid succession between his natural 
and synthesized voice all while 
engaging in varying degrees 
of technical pitch adjustment. 
This is especially prevalent in the 30 seconds after McCartney transitions into the second 
verse of the song after a heavily 
processed and distorted chorus. Here, he begins to utilize a more raw, natural voice only 
to immediately revert to Auto-
tune just two lines later. The robotic addition to McCartney’s 
voice then proceeds to build 
up in intensity line by line and plateaus when he reaches the chorus again. These maximalist 
transitions, albeit interesting, 
are overbearing and give the impression that the song is inattentively produced.
Yet, the single is not without 
its highlights. Near the end of the song, after the final chorus, 
the Auto-tune cuts out and the 
melody transitions into the bridge where McCartney harmonizes alongside a soft piano ballad 
with a faint but steady drumbeat 
in the background. The bridge is both pure and natural, and serves as a stark contrast to the preceding heavy robotic effects. 
The lyrics are also another 
source of commendation. Though simple and short, they are surprisingly descriptive 
and genuine. McCartney is 
able to conjure an atmosphere of romantic nostalgia and love forlorn through his continuous 
rhetorical questioning of the 
unnamed woman in the song. 
He also makes extensive use 
of imagery and metaphors 
to situate the listener in his 
memory as he reflects upon his past relationship. 
McCartney’s “Get Enough” is 
a wildly radical and bizarre track that seems to subvert much of the singer-songwriter’s foundational 
music. His latest single appears 
to indicate not only a drastic stylistic shift but also a decline in his musical production ability. 
The Auto-tune is excessive, 
distracting, and confusing. It masks the admirable qualities of 
the song while simultaneously 
accentuating its flaws. However, while this track may not be one of his greatest works, one 
must take into account that he 
possesses a verifiable record of experimentation and sometimes experiments may fail. Even the 
legendary Sir Paul McCartney 
cannot be immune to such failure.
— Aaron  Hong 
Contributing Writer12                                                                                    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  2 2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
Time and time again, Chicago proves to be an in fluential force in the hip-hop genre, inspiring many of this generation’ s most well-known voices. 
Chicago hip-hop is a subgenre 
defined by a heavy emphasis on melody and sampling, especially 
the sampling of old soul and gospel records. It has always been an insular genre in which artists prefer to work with other Chicago 
artists due to the isolation of the city itself, with the nearest major city of Detroit five 
hours away. However, Chicago has such a 
distinct identity as a city that artists feel that 
only those who grew up in similar conditions 
will be able to understand and relate to them. 
For decades, Chicago has had a reputation 
as one of, if not the most, violent cities in 
America. Since 2001, more Americans have 
died in Chicago than in Iraq. The tension 
and fear of the city is expressed in its music, 
with artists calling for peace while mourning 
those they’ve lost. 
Chicago first established its hip-hop 
identity in 1992 with the release of Common’s 
sample-centric debut “Can I Borrow 
a Dollar?” The lead single, “Take it EZ,” 
contains 11 different samples alone, including 
ones from Richard Pryor, the Beastie Boys, and Eric B. & Rakim. These samples create 
a backdrop that fluctuates between jazzy and 
hard-hitting, with a saxophone melody as the common thread throughout the piece. Common’s fusion of singing and complex flows (as seen on “Take it EZ”) reflects 
this dichotomy, creating a unique style that 
would come to define Chicago’s hip-hop identity. Throughout the album, Common 
deftly intertwines references to pop culture 
touchstones, such as Chicago football legend Walter Payton, with ref lections on the reality city life, themes that would become 
commonplace in the city’s music. Though the album did not sell particularly well (barely 
making it to No. 70 on the Rap/Hip-Hop 
album popularity chart), each of the three 
singles hit the top 10 on the U.S. Rap Songs chart, giving Chicago its first hip-hop star.
“Can I Borrow a Dollar?” also signaled the 
rise of another influential Chicago musical 
talent: No I.D., who co-produced the entirety 
of the album. Known as the “Godfather 
of Chicago hip-hop,” No I.D. would go on 
to have a production career spanning over 
25 years, earning 10 Grammy nominations. 
Throughout his rise to fame, he was closely 
tied to Common, producing the vast majority 
of songs on his first three albums. This 
sample-heavy work would go on to define 
the sound of the city in the decades to 
come. Following the turn of the century, his 
production discography became even more 
star-studded, including songs produced for 
artists such as Jay-Z, DMX, and G-Unit. 
However, No I.D.’s greatest contribution to 
Chicago music is perhaps his discovery and 
mentorship of one of the most recognizable 
and polarizing artists of the 21st century: Kanye West.
West was actually born in Atlanta, 
but moved to Chicago at age 3. Between characterizing the Windy City as a gorgeous woman in his song “Homecoming” to naming his youngest child Chicago, he has 
represented his city more so than perhaps 
anyone else in hip-hop. It is no surprise that his identity, both musical and personal, 
would become entwined with that of the city.
Around the turn of the century, No I.D. 
crossed paths with a young West and began 
to mentor him, teaching him to sample 
and program beats. West first began his production career with various local acts in 
his late teens and early twenties, eventually 
dropping out of Chicago State University to 
focus on his musical talent. His distinctive style revolved around pitching up soul and gospel samples and playing with the idea of the 
human voice as an instrument. After joining Roc-A-Fella Records in 2000, he first rose to 
stardom in 2001 through his production of 
Jay Z’s “The Blueprint.” Though Roc-A-Fella 
was reluctant to support him as a rapper, they 
eventually acquiesced. While working on his 
debut, however, West was in a car accident 
that left his jaw wired shut. This incident 
would inspire his first single, “Through the 
Wire,” and demonstrated his understanding 
of the voice as a unique and personal, yet 
flawed, instrument. Rather than intertwining 
his voice with the musical backdrop, as 
would later become common with other 
styles and in other central hip-hop cities such 
as Atlanta, West made it the centerpiece of his 
music. His sampled instrumentals are used to 
accentuate the voice in much the same way 
that an artist would frame a painting. This motif shines clearly throughout his debut, 
“The College Dropout,” which was released 
in 2004. Each track manipulates the human voice differently, showcasing a variety of facets of the voice as a central instrument. Thematically, the album demonstrates an 
idea that is core to the subgenre as a whole: 
commitment to choosing one’s own destiny, even in the face of adversity. Throughout his 
music, West would also discuss religion and 
his connection with God.
West’s skyrocketing popularity in 
the mainstream also spilled over to other 
Chicago artists. In the year following West’s artistic explosion, another Chicago artist 
burst onto the mainstream stage in the 
form of Lupe Fiasco. Fiasco, who credits 
Common as a major influence, was one of the first proponents of “conscious rap,” which focuses on the social issues that 
spurred the creation of hip-hop, including excessive violence, racism, and religion. His 
first two albums, “Lupe Fiasco’s Food & 
Liquor” and “The Cool” gave him some 
modicum of mainstream success, with the 
latter’s “Superstar” hitting the Top 10 on 
the Billboard Chart. The albums depict all 
facets of reality in Chicago, from life in the 
ghetto (“Ghetto Story/Steady Mobbin”) to 
the struggle of escaping it (“Hip-Hop Saved 
My Life”). The relatability of these topics 
combined with his complex lyricism and 
technical flow would later inspire the next 
generation of Chicago artists to follow in in 
the same lyrical vein.
As the Chicago hip-hop scene matured, 
these same influences and themes continued 
to shape the music of the city and its culture 
as a whole. The uniqueness of the sub-genre’s sound grew to become more distinct from 
other hip-hop cities, centering on the soul 
samples and vocal focus that characterized the city’s music. Future artists later pointed to this era as one of the most influential and inspirational points in their lives.
— Alex Rickard 
Contributing Writer
A Love Affair Between Chicago and Hip-Hop :  Part 1PHOTO COURTESY OF IBILLBOARD.COMCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
AS GRAPHIC STUDIO
PRESENTS10 YEAR
CELEBRATION MAKE ARTTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 21 - JAN 27
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 25 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org5pm
SKIP TRAFFIC: VENOM MOVIE 
NIGHT – PRICE CENTER THEATER
SKIP TRAFFIC by coming out to enjoy one of 
Marvel’s latest movies. We’re partnering with UCSD ACCB – The Page to show you fun on the first night of Commuter Appreciation Week! About Venom: Journalist Eddie Brock is trying to take down Carlton Drake, the notorious and brilliant founder of the Life Foundation. While investigating one of Drake’s experiements, Eddie’s body merges with the alien Venom – leaving him with superhuman strength and pwer. Twisted, dark and fueled by rage, Venom tries to control the new and dangerous abilities that Eddie finds so intoxicating. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
MARK DRESSER QUINTET – THE 
LOFT @ UCSD
Mark Dresser is an internationally acclaimed 
bass player, improviser, composer, and interdisciplinary collaborator. Since 2006 he has been researching, performing, composing, and collaborating in the field of telematic performance, which explores the musical, technical, and social dimensions of live performance between multiple locations through high speed Internet. He was a co-coordinator, composer, performer, and conductor of Deep Tones for Peace, a 2009 Internet performance including thirteen internationally bassists collaborating live between Jerusalem and New York City.
7:15pm
TEST PREPARATION FOR UC SAN 
DIEGO UNDERGRADUATES: GMAT, 
GRE, LSAT – RADY SCHOOL OF 
MANAGEMENT
Gearing for grauduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today! Contact: precollege@ucsd.edu5pm
WOMEN DISRUPTING FOR GOOD – 
THE BASEMENT 
In this panel focused on disrupting for the greater good of society, we will hear from exemplary impact leaders who are mobilizing change. The discussion will examine impactful innovations, technologies and businesses that are positively disrupting the status quo to catalyze change. Learn how these impact leaders are making a difference in society. Hear about their personal journeys, and what led each to become a change maker. Join us, and be inspired to lead the change you want to see in the world! 
5:30pm
VLADIMIR VYSOTSKY: A RUSSIAN 
CULTURAL LEGEND – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM 
Vladimir Vysotsky (19381980) was a singer, 
songwriter, actor, and poet a giant in Russian popular music and popular culture alike. Vysotsky was an icon of the 1960s and continues to unite the Russian-speaking diaspora. In commemoration of what would have been Vysotskys 80th birthday, the UC San Diego Library is hosting an ongoing winter quarter exhibit on Vysotskys like and legacy. Dmitry Bykov, Moscow-based scholar, novelist, and poet will discuss Vysotskys like, work, and legacy during a lecture on Thursday, January 24. Bykov is a celebrated Russian writer, poet, and journalist. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu
7:15pm
TEST PREPARATION FOR UC SAN 
DIEGO UNDERGRADUATES: GMAT, GRE, LSAT – RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Gearing for grauduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today! Contact: precollege@ucsd.eduTUE1.22
THU1.24MON1.21
2pm
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR PARADE – 
HARBOR DRIVE, EMBARCADERO
Join other UC San Diego students, staff, faculty 
and alumni in downtown San Diego for the 39th 
Annual Martin Luther King Jr. Parade. This is one 
of the largest celebrations of its kind in the 
United States in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King 
Jr. The San Diego contingent will be led by a large 
“UC San Diego” banner, followed by the UC San 
Diego Pep Band and members of the campus 
community. Departments and organizations are 
encouraged to showcase their own banners, 
letters, and signage while we march in the 
parade. Limited transportation available for UC 
San Diego students, register at 
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/uc-san-diego-mart
in-luther-king-jr-parade-tickets-54361063404 
Contact: olara@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCTS )
Come learn a new language through the art of 
conversing with a native. We have a huge variety 
of language, from ASL, Armenian to Mandarin, 
Japanese, and more! Contact: 
ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
A.S. GRAPHICS STUDIO AND 
TRITON FEST PRESENT: MAKE ART 
– LIBRARY WALK
A.S. GRAPHICS STUDIO AND TRITON FEST 
PRESENT: MAKE ART – LIBRARY WALK
Save the Dates for Make Art: AS Graphic 
Studio’s 10 Year Celebration, a hands-on, interactive celebration of art, crafts, music, and food. Experience the imagination of the AS Graphic Studio in a five room art installation series featuring Bear Garden bears, Sun God Festival memorabilia, Fluffy, buttons, posters and more. Create your own works of art at our Makers Row to include apparel, jewelry, art, and more. Enjoy live music, a screening of Kusama: Infinity, and free food. Win prizes and artwork from our installation collection. Make Art is free for undergraduate and graduate students. 
January 25th / 8 pm Library Walk / Triton Fest 
Make Art Event
January 26th / 1 pm Library Walk / Art 
Installations only & Opportunity drawing 
Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu FRI1.257am
SIBILINGS DAY – MULTIPURPOSE 
ROOM 
Sibilings Day 2019 is going to be an incredible 
day with a super packed agenda. Showcase your 
best super gear. Use your super strength to bike 
through campus and discover super labs on campus. Complete special-agent missions through our traditional scavenger hunt with chances to win prize. End your incredible day by cheering on our Mens Volleyball team as they battle the court against Grand Canyon University. Contact: parents@ucsd.edu
6pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: UNDER 
THE INFLUENCER – PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Join us for a brand new Triton Fest Winter Series 
event – UNDER THE INFLUENCEER! You will have the opportunity to meet some of the most popular social media influencers on the internet today and learn about their journey to stardom. This electric event will also feature Instagram worthy photo ops to help you become an influencer and create that #aesthetic. Entry is FREE with a valid UCSD undergraduate and graduate ID. Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu
4:15pm
SUNSET WALK AND DINNER – 
MEET OUTSIDE OF RIMAC
Bridges International aims to connect 
International students through fun, friends, and spiritual conversations!  Come join us for the first event of the quarter! We will walk to see the sunset, then go for dinner off campus after. Rides will be provided. Come for the walk, dinner, or both!SAT1.26
3pm
LYTLE SCHOLARSHIP BENEFIT 
CONCERT – CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
We are pleased to present the finest Klezmer 
music in San Diego. Please join us for a night of performances bleding the Jewish folk traditions of Eastern Europe with the songs of the Yiddish theatre. Contact: promise@ucsd.eduSUN1.27WED1.23PRICE CENTER WEST
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS BILL 
FRISELL – PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Featuring: Petra Haden, Thoman Morgan, and 
Rudy Royston. Hailed as the most innovative and influential guitarist of the past 25 years (Wall 
Street Journal), Bill Frisell has seen 
collabortations with the likes of Elvis Costello, 
Bono, Paul Simon, and the Los Angeles Philharmonic. His Grammy-nominated album “When You Wish Upon a Star” features his arrangements and interpretations of music for film and television. The guitarist will be joined by bassist Thomas Morga, drummer Rudy Royston, and singer Petra Haden in reimagining time-honored gems like When You Wish Upon a Star and Somewhere Over the Rainbow, as well as music from television favorites, including The Dick Van Dyke Show and The Honeymooners. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
HEALTHY FOODS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Shot in the arm
5. Ring engagement?9. Puccini work
14. Marco Polo destination
15. “The Piano” actress Paquin
16. Classic cookies17. Huck’s conveyance18. Farmer’s bonanza
20. Set of computer files
22. Air currents
23. Chucklehead24. Voice quality26. Show pain
29. Sporty shirt
34. It comes before Wednesday once 
a year
36. Discovery’s view
38. Laconic
39. Theater follower
41. Snoops
43. Christmas44. Portents46. Eliot’s “cruellest month”48. “___ iron bars a cage”49. Slide used in lighting51. Manual transmission53. Loosen55. Flow regulator58. Lose stature62. More merry65. Certain government site67. ___ Domini68. Kitchen scale marking69. Take in70. Ongoing quarrel71. Goodyear pattern72. “You Are My Destiny” singer73. BeingDOWN
 1. Embellishes2. Singer-songwriter Hayes3. Unnecessary person
4. Japanese floor mat
5. Rum cake
6. Responsibility7. Like some needs8. Faucet
9. Deluge
10. Sea World performer
11. Feudal laborer12. Ducklike bird13. Hooded snakes
19. Novelist Ferber
21. It often gets picked
25. Different ones27. The end of night?28. Chore-related outing
30. Low island
31. Phone connections
32. City on a fiord33. Parliamentarian34. Entranced35. Word with what or where37. Memorable D.C. nickname40. Protein-producing substance42. Command to a guest45. Like bonsai47. Shown as it happens50. Like cuttlefish defenses52. Wine server54. Place to dive in56. Serena’s rival57. Disintegrate58. Robert Burns, for one59. Kind of hand60. Ancient alphabetic symbol61. Quechua speaker63. Listen!64. European erupter66. Where to find good schools?BIKES
Antique Bicycles *** Best Offer - St Vincent 
de Paul - Specialty Items On-line Internet Auction CalAuctions.com Only the best 
donations have been saved for this on-
line auction! Location: 815 33rd Street,San 
Diego, CA 92102 1st Items starts closing on April 16th at 12:07PM COME SEE US - Onsite Inspection is April 11th, 14th and 
15th… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Mountain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, Womens  
- Terrific Condition. Hasn’t been ridden in 5 yrs due to being overseas. Size small 
Components Component Group: Mountain 
Mix Front Derailleur: Front Derailleur Rear 
Derailleur: Back Derailleur Brakeset… ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
Expresso Recumbent Bike S3r - Sit back and 
enjoy your workout. The recumbent offers the same amazing interactive rider experi -
ence of the upright in a form factor built for comfort.This is a great recumbent bike that is interactive and can be used to race people around the world Fun Games and rides to keep you motivated… ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationJOBS
Security Officer Unarmed - BROTHERS IN ARMS SECURITY is seeking motivated and professional Security Guards. We have full and part time shifts available through -
out the San Diego area; CA Guard Card is 
required - Willing to help in obtaining one 
if you do not have one. Drivers license is 
required if hired for a patrol driver posi -
tion… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Part Time Tutor/Mentor - Looking for a 
responsible upperclassman or grad student 
to work from approximately 2:30-6:00 pm 
four to five days a week. Must have clean driving record and pass drug screening if asked. Need someone to pick up High School Freshman student at bus stop in Hillcrest and work either at a coffee shop or new Mission Hills Library or at our house on homework and studying for tests… ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
Inbound Sales Representatives - We are a 
Business Consulting & Software Marketing 
Company dedicated to meeting the needs 
of our customers throughout the United 
States. We are seeking Sales Representatives Needed to join our team! You will resolve 
customer questions and offer solutions to 
drive company revenue… ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Wyckes Furniture Southern California loca -
tions Los Angeles Gridley rd Cerritos CA 
()-Orange County Talbert ave Fountain Valley CA ()-San Diego North Miramar rd San Diego CA ()-San Diego South University ave San Diego CA ()- DAY BUYOUT OPTION NO CREDIT NEEDED FINANCING Sectional . Delivery most areas or pick up.  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Pc black Sofa and Loveseat Set - San Diego, 
CA.Pc black Sofa amp Loveseat Set Pictures and contact info on Advertigo website. ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
white peg board and hooks - this is for a 
very nice used time white peg board with 
hooks polypropylene hard and durable xx 
inch hole size inch hole spacing Pictures and contact info on Advertigo website. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
In what would prove a decisive 
victory, the UC San Diego Tritons 
crushed the California State University, 
San Marcos Cougars in a 92–69 win 
over their neighbors to the north. 
Perhaps more notable than the final 
score, however, was redshirt junior center Chris Hansen’s performance, 
whose five 3-pointers and 19 overall 
points helped him eclipse the 
1,000-point milestone for his career at UCSD. The game directly followed an 
overtime thriller in which the UCSD women’s basketball team took down 
San Marcos 68–67 in overtime, with 
junior forward Mikayla Williams reaching the 1,000-point mark as well.
All of the Tritons’ usual 3-point 
shooters continued to stay hot from 
behind the arc in what would become a 
barrage that the Cougars simply could not stop. The team knocked down 19 
3-pointers on the night, shooting 47.5 percent from deep; redshirt freshman guard Tyrell Roberts, sophomore 
guard Gabe Hadley, and Hansen led 
the way as they went 4–10, 4–5, and 
5–5 respectively. The home crowd 
was loud and remained in the game 
for almost the entirety of the first half. 
The cheering grew louder every time 
a Triton hit a 3-pointer as giveaway “Tees for Threes” flew through the air 
into the hands of eager fans. 
Early on, CSUSM kept things 
close, forcing the Tritons to hit their shots under heavy defensive pressure, 
a difficulty that waned over the course 
of the game. The Cougars were led on 
both ends of the floor by freshman 
guard Bryce Sloan (18 points, 3 assists, 
1 steal) and junior forward Darae 
Elliott (17 points, 3 blocks). 
But even with the strong defense of 
Sloan and Elliott, the Tritons flashed 
their 3-point prowess early on, with 
the first points of the game coming 
on junior forward Scott Everman’s 
contested 3-pointer from the corner. Everman, along with redshirt 
sophomore guard Mikey Howell, went 
to San Marcos High School, making 
the game even more personal for the 
pair.
The closest the Cougars got to 
controlling the game was in the first 
few minutes of the first half, going up 
10–9. But the Tritons would have none 
of it, as senior guard Christian Bayne 
hit a big 3-pointer to get the crowd back 
into the game and to get the T-shirts flying. And once the 3-pointers started 
coming, the Cougars had a tough time 
staying in the game. The Tritons made 
three 3-pointers in the span of just a 
few minutes to push the lead up to 
18–10.
And the 3-pointers didn’t stop 
coming. A fter a turnover that led to 
a basket for the Cougars, Hadley hit 
a 3-pointer to raise the score up to 
23–14 to begin a run for UCSD. A few 
minutes later, a 3-pointer by Everman was quickly followed by back-to-back 
3-pointers from Hansen, prompting a Cougar timeout and an outburst from 
the Triton crowd. 
CSUSM couldn’t catch a break, as 
coming out of the timeout Roberts hit 
a 3-pointer to push the score up to 40–
22. The run was made possible largely 
due to the interior presence of Hansen, 
whose ability to make shots inside 
and out kept the Cougars’ defense from running the Tritons o ff the line. 
The domination of the first half was 
fittingly capped o ff with a Roberts 
floater as time expired, pushing the 
score up to 46–28, a margin the Tritons 
would continue to increase even once 
the reserves came onto the floor. In the 
second half, the crowd quieted down 
as the lead grew, especially once the 
gameday sta ff ran out of t-shirts to give 
away a fter 3-pointers.
The strongest performance o ff the 
bench in the second half came from 
backup redshirt junior guard Connor 
Peterson, who finished up with 11 
points on 4-4 shooting from the field. 
Peterson was able to get inside and, when he wasn’t dunking or laying it in, consistently found a way to draw 
fouls. Sophomore forward Martin 
Tombe also had a strong showing o ff 
the bench late in the game, hitting a heavily contested 3-pointer despite a foul and converting the 4-point play 
much to the delight of the bench, 
even if the crowd was already quieting down at that point in the game.
With the victory, the Tritons 
move to 15–3 overall and to 10–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, staving o ff California 
State University, East Bay for the top spot in the CCAA. Both teams have 10 conference wins and three-game 
winning streaks. The two teams have a 
long way to go before the season’s end, but they may now be beginning to eye 
their head-to-head matchup on March 2, a game that could decide the CCAA, 
as it will conclude the regular season.Men's BasketballUCSD Men’s 
Basketball Crushes Neighboring 
San Marcos
The Tritons continue to knock 
down 3-pointers in another big 
win.PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSCAN
BY jack dorfman
Sports Editor 
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Cal Berkeley
vs. UCLAvs Chico Statevs Chico StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSwim & Dive
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball12 AM
7 PM
4:30PM7:30PM1/251/251/241/24
Fifth-ranked 
UC San Diego 
Knocks off Cal State San 
Marcos in Double Overtime
UC San Diego stays perfect in thrilling 
overtime win over CCAA rival. 
BY Madeline lewis
senior staff writerPHOTO COURTESY O F  UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
woMen's basketball
Wesley  XIAO  WEX057@ucsd.eduLa Jolla, California — In a local 
matchup and California Collegiate 
Athletic Association competition, the 
No. 5 UC San Diego women’s basketball team collected it’s 15th win this season 
in a double overtime thriller against 
California State University, San Marcos, winning 68–67 on Saturday, Jan. 19.
Prior to tipo ff, junior forward 
Mikayla Williams was acknowledged for joining the 1,000-point club in a 
Triton uniform. Throughout the night, 
Williams demonstrated the skills that 
helped her reach the milestone, scoring 
24 points in the win on 10–18 shooting 
from the field and 4–5 shooting from 
the free throw line. The Meath Park, 
Saskatchewan native did more than just score, totaling 18 rebounds as well as 6 blocks
Per usual, the Tritons knew how to 
keep things interesting. A fter a slow 
start, the blue and gold trailed by eight 
after the first quarter and maintained 
that de ficit heading into hal ftime, down 24–32. Regardless of the somewhat 
sloppy first half, UCSD came out of 
the locker room ready to defend. The 
Tritons held the Cougars to single digits in every quarter for the remainder of the 
game, allowing just 4 points in the third 
quarter.
In her first game back at RIMAC 
Arena following a shoulder injury, senior guard Kayla Sato put on a show. Sato recorded 20 points, 2 steals, and 
3 rebounds. In addition, senior guard 
Joleen Yang and junior forward Haleigh Hatfield each dropped 7 points apiece. 
Hatfield was also big on the boards, 
tallying 17 rebounds on top of 3 blocks in her impressive 48 minutes of play.
With two seconds le ft of the first 
overtime, a contested yet capitalized layup from the Cougars extended 
the contest into double overtime. 
Despite the letdown, the gritty Triton squad continued to battle. Leading in 
rebounds, second chance opportunities, 
and points in the paint, UCSD found a way to come out on top just as it has done all season long, ultimately outscoring 
San Marcos 6–5 in the second overtime.
As a team, the Tritons gradually 
improved their field goal shooting 
percentage throughout the entirety 
of the game, hitting just 28.6 percent of their shots in the first half before 
shooting 36.7 percent in the second half. In the two overtimes combined, the Tritons shot their best yet, 41.7 percent 
(5–12), compared to the Cougars 25 
percent (4–16), a di fference that helped 
seal the win for the Tritons.
With the win, UCSD improves its 
record to 15–0 overall and to 11–0 in conference play. The Tritons will travel 
north next week to take on California State University, Chico on Thursday, 
Jan. 24 and California State University, 
Humboldt on Saturday, Jan. 26. Tipo ff 
will begin at 5:30 p.m. for both games.
FOLLOW AND 
LIKE US ON
SOCIAL
MEDIAFacebook.com/ucsdguardian
Instagram: @ucsdguardian
Twitter: @ucsdguardian
UCSD Men’s 
Volleyball Swept Twice over Long Weekend
Men’s Volleyball finishes off tough 
roadtrip with two more losses, 
and they’re headed home next 
week. By: Madeline 
Lewis // Senior Staff Writer
Chicago, Illinois — This weekend, 
the UC San Diego men’s volleyball team 
lost back-to-back away games in the 
Chicago area. The Tritons were swept 
3–0 by the Lewis University Flyers on Friday, Jan. 18 and were swept again by Loyola University Chicago on Saturday, 
Jan. 19. Coming into their matchups 
with the Tritons, Lewis and Loyola were ranked eighth and ninth in the nation, respectively.
From the onset, it was clear UCSD 
was overmatched. To start the first set, Lewis went on a scoring spree, scoring 6 unanswered points to go up 6–0. From then on, the Flyers drove up the score and the Tritons were unable to catch up. 
Lewis took the first set, winning 25–19. 
The second set started off better. 
UCSD scored 2 points early on to give 
it a 2–0 lead. However, this lead would 
be the first and only lead the Tritons ever had in this match. The Flyers quickly 
regained control, ultimately winning the set 25–11. In the final set, Lewis dominated the Tritons 25–12 to win the 
game.
The second game against Loyola 
Chicago played out in a similar manner. 
Though the Tritons were able to put up a bit of a fight in the first set, losing 
just 20–25, the Ramblers were able to 
steamroll the Tritons in the next 2 sets — 15–25 and 16–25, respectively — to win the match. Despite matching Loyola’s 87 attack attempts, UCSD was unable 
to translate its attempted attacks into 
points. Only 12.6 percent of attempts were converted to points, compared to Loyola’s 28.7 percent conversion rate. 
Despite the losses, the UCSD players 
were able to put together some nice individual performances over the MLK day weekend. Sophomore outside hitter Wyatt Harrison was an offensive stand-
out in both games. He lead the team on 
offense, compiling 51 attempts and 14 kills. Junior libero Ryan Lew had a solid defensive outing. Patrolling the backend, Lew recorded 9 digs in both matches.
After winning both of their matchups 
last weekend against Harvard University and Sacred Heart University, the Tritons came back to earth, ending this week with 2 losses. With those losses, UCSD drops to an overall record of 2–4.
Next weekend, the Tritons will square 
off against UCLA on Jan. 25 at the RIMAC Arena in the Triton’s first home game of the season. The last time UCSD went up against UCLA was four weeks 
ago in the second game of the 2019 
regular season. In that outing, UCSD narrowly escaped being swept, losing 3–1. This game will also be nationally 
broadcast on ESPN3. The Tritons should 
hope to put this week’s losses behind them and put up a strong performance in the national spotlight.
BY Wesley Xiao
staff writer