Students from UC San Diego will 
be able to provide their preferred 
names and pronouns in the university data system, starting spring quarter of 2019. This policy is a way to improve inclusion and respect on campus by treating cultural and gender identity of every student respectfully.   
The email announcement sent 
out by the Office of the Chancellor states that “Following UC San Diego’s Principles of Community, preferred names and personal pronouns ensure we are able to address students respectfully and appropriately. ”
According to the UC San Diego 
Principles of Community, UCSD “acknowledge[s] that that our society carries historical and divisive biases based on race, ethnicity, sex, gender identity, age, disability, sexual orientation, religion, and political beliefs. Therefore, we seek to foster understanding and tolerance among individuals and groups, and we promote awareness through education and constructive strategies for resolving conflict. ”
According to Dr. Shaun Travers, 
the Campus Diversity Officer and Director, this policy also aligns with California’s Gender Recognition Act, which legally supports the accurate sexual identity of every person.    A.S. Election Manager Kyler V aughn announced the results of the highly 
contentious 2019 A.S. elections this evening. FRESH START candidates Eleanor Grudin and Melina Reynoso will be next year’s A.S. President and Vice President of Campus Affairs, respectively. Former Tritons United member Tiger Huang won the Vice President of External Affairs race. All three candidates ran unopposed as their competitors were deemed 
ineligible for not meeting the GPA 
requirement.
This year 4,097 students -- 17.52 
percent of the undergraduate body -- voted on TritonLink.
In the campus-wide Senator race, 
students voted to elect independent candidate  Nancy Zhang and FRESH START candidates Nick Lee, Kaitlyn Willoughby, David Hickman, Kimberly Giangtran.
Furthermore, independent 
candidates Deema Alsaied and Ale Felix won the Off-Campus Senator seats, while FRESH START candidate Yusuf Hamid Altimimi won Transfer Senator. In addition, FRESH START candidate Harry Huang, independent candidate Amor Goetz,  FRESH START candidate Efran Elias Martinez, FRESH START candidate Shirley Zhang, FRESH START candidate Annika Manlutac won the races for Arts and Humanities Senator, Biological Sciences Senator, Engineering Senator, Physical Sciences Senator, and Social Sciences Senator, respectively.
The FRESH START slate won 11 
of the 16 A.S. Council positions that students can vote on. Independent candidates won the remaining five.
The referendum to increase the 
Thurgood Marshall College Student Activity fee passed, while the one for Earl W arren College failed to meet the necessary turnout threshold of 
20 percent and failed to receive a 
majority from those who did vote.
Several controversies have 
occurred throughout the elections process, as the slate Tritons United was disbanded and disqualified after their presidential candidate Joey Giltner was first deemed ineligible to run and then found to have committed multiple violations of the elections code.
“The slate Tritons United was 
disqualified in light of repeated campaign finance violations, ” V aughn said in a statement released on April 8. “ I can confirm that all of Triton’s United candidates have either withdrawn from the slate to become independent candidates or are no longer candidates in the election. ”
Danielle Viviani, who was on 
the slate Triton’s United before it disbanded, mentioned that the reason that Tritons United disbanded was that the Tritons United management had not been transparent with its members.
“ A divide and conquer strategy 
was consistently used, whereby individuals who brought forth complaints or concerns were individually spoken to, felt heard and consoled and then, any complaints or concerns made in a group setting were responded to with the claim that no one had approached management individually, ” Viviani 
wrote in a statement explaining the 
decision of the slate to disband.
All the remaining members 
decided to run as independent candidates.
“Each newly-independent 
candidate, rather, desires to make a statement: this election thus far has shown us what a political party war is like at UCSD, ” Viviani told the UCSD Guardian. “We believe qualified candidates can win outside the confines of any slate and the complications any such organizations bring. We believe Tritons United is a political party that should never be allowed to return to this campus, to OUR campus. ”
Although Tritons United 
had already disbanded, the complications with the election proceedings continued when the Judicial Board granted Giltner’s appeal of his ineligibility due to his VOLUME 52, ISSUE 23  MONDA Y , APRIL 15, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
AFSCME Strikes 
over Unfair Labor by UC System
The union argues that the UC 
system retaliated against protestors at demonstrations this past year.
CAMPUS
UCSD Students Given Option to Register Preferred Pronouns
Protestors rally near Gilman Parking Structure before their march // Photo by Joshua Ben-EscherThe American Federation of State, 
County and Municipal Employees, 
Local 3299 went on strike on April 10 to assert that workers have a right to 
protest without fear of retaliation or 
coercion, a problem which falls under the blanket of Unfair Labor Practices. Following the union’s submission of the ULP charge to the Public 
Employment Relations Board–a quasi-
judicial California state administrative agency–AFSCME members on all 
University of California campuses 
headed to the picket lines. 
UC San Diego workers marched 
in front of Gilman Parking Structure, 
La Jolla Medical Center, and Hillcrest 
Medical Center. The ULP charge 
compiled various incidents in the past 
six months, many of which were seen 
in connection with the March 20 of 
this year and October 2018 strikes. The 
document claims that the UC system 
retaliated against workers, threatened 
them with police citations, and in 
one instance, physically assaulted 
protesters. 
“Some UCSD managers are treating 
workers differently, especially if you go 
on strike. Y ou’re going to be threatened 
or intimidated when you come back. 
We have testimonies of workers 
who were asked to leave the union, ” Executive Board Member of AFSCME 3299 Ruth Zolayvar said. “We know that if we go on strike, we will not 
be given opportunities to work extra 
hours and we know that when the UC system sent out [contract] emails, they’re encouraging us to go against 
the union. ”
This was seen when UCSD Labor 
Relations sent out a letter to workers 
summarizing the contract proposal 
from negotiations which AFSCME 
representatives previously rejected. The letter concluded by stating that continued strikes are costing employees money and that they should sign on to 
the contracts. AFSCME’s ULP charge 
rebukes the email by stating that the UC system fails to share how they calculated their estimates, noting that 
UC system omitted useful pieces of 
information from the calculations. 
According to the charge as well, 
a UCSD Medical Center supervisor 
suggested to union bargaining members 
that they could “give themselves a raise” if they quit the union. AFSCME considers this to be an unlawful tactic to deter workers from being a part of 
the union. Throughout the UC system, 
workers were allegedly provided with misleading communication that misrepresented workers’ rights and union participation. 
“There was an incident from 
UC Merced where the UC system has subjected Union members and workplace leaders to surveillance 
and harassment, ” AFSCME 
Communications Director John de Los By TANaya Sawant  Staff writerA.S. COUNCIL
Controversial Student Elections Conclude, Results AnnouncedPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
In this series of articles, all 
of the UCSD teams that 
competed over the last 
week will be covered, with 
top moments, players and 
scores being reported.
GROUP  PROJECTS
PALESTINECollaboration = engagement
A  historical  reviewOpinion,  Page   4
Features ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“We often get so 
lost in the bustle of 
school and work 
that we forget to 
check in on our 
own thoughts and 
feelings.”MONDAY
 H 65 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 58
TUESDAY
H 64 L 56
THURSDAY
H 68 L 59
OUT OF STATE.................4
DISQUALIFICATION.........7
BIRTHDAY BLUES..........10
MOB PSYCHO 100........12
BASEBALL.....................15UC SYSTEM
Annika Olives
PAGE 8The new policy follows California’s Gender Recognition Act of 2018, which went into e ffect this past January. 
BY  Vivian Yang
Contributing Writer BY  Andrew Ha
Editorial AssistantSPORTS RESULTS
RECAP
Sports, page 15
See PRONOUNS,  page 3 See AFSCME,  page 3See ELECTIONS,  page 2
TritonEd, the learning 
management system currently 
used by UC San Diego students 
and faculty alike, is expected to be fully phased out and replaced 
with Canvas by spring quarter of 
2020. According to Educational Technolog y Ser vices, the decision 
to transition from TritonEd to 
Canvas was made due to the input it 
recieved from a 2017 campus-wide 
evaluation, to determine whether TritonEd was meeting the needs of 
students and faculty.
In an email to the UCSD Guardian, 
Director of Educational Technology Services Daniel Suchy,  said that the 
2017 evaluation, initiated by UCSD’s Chief Information Officer, had both 
a qualitative interview component 
and a comprehensive quantitative survey. Over 150 faculty and 1800 
students reportedly shared their 
TritonEd experiences and opinions.
According to the Ed Tech website, 
the survey showed that instructors criticized TritonEd for having an inefficient gradebook system and 
poor user interface design. Many 
students felt that evaluating course performance using TritonEd was 
difficult, its mobile performance 
was clunky, and faculty use of TritonEd for more than information 
broadcasting led to feelings of 
student anxiety and expense.
“The original goal was to gain 
measurable and actionable data to improve the TritonEd LMS experience,” Suchy said. “What 
we ultimately learned was [that] 
TritonEd was no longer meeting the evolving needs of UC San Diego 
courses. ” 
The website also noted 
that students, faculty, teaching assistants, and Information 
Technolog y Ser vices support staff formed ideation groups to help 
address the issues identified by 
respondents of the evaluation. ETS made immediate improvements 
to TritonEd, including integrating 
Gradescope to streamline the grading of assignments and by 
creating help tabs that contained 
answers to frequently asked questions and important university 
announcements.Suchy said that it is entirely 
possible that the full adoption of 
Canvas could come even sooner than Spring Quarter of 2020 depending 
on how quickly instructors decide 
to switch.
“Momentum is already building - 
we currently have 60+ early-adopter courses and over 2000 students using Canvas this Spring Quarter, ” 
Suchy explained to the Guardian. 
“ And we’re excited to have recently partnered with Summer Session to 
host their entire 600 courses this 
summer via Canvas. ” 
First year Earl Warren College 
student Aura Celniker told the Guardian that she was not very impressed with Canvas’s 
performance in her early-adopter 
course in Chemistry.
“Other than the fact that it was 
inconvenient, it wasn’t that bad, ” Celniker said. “I prefer using [TritonEd] because it’s a system that 
I am already familiar with. ”
ETS has already created a 
complete Canvas support site that includes a training calendar and tips 
and tricks. During the transition, a single login page will automatically 
point students to either their TritonEd or Canvas courses.
Suchy anticipates that Canvas 
will ultimately provide a better 
experience for instructors and 
students than TritonEd ever did.
“TritonEd served campus courses 
for several years, but quite frankly, [its] interface and features are stuck 
in the 2000s, ” Suchy said. “Canvas on the other hand, is a modern and 
streamlined learning platform, plus 
the mobile app is simply fantastic. Most of what students and faculty 
need to do can now be accomplished 
via their phone or tablet. ”
Victor Flores, a freshman from 
Eleanor Roosevelt College, said that he’s indifferent about ETS’s decision to switch from TritonEd to Canvas.
“I don’t mind [the switch] as long 
as [Canvas is] as easy or easier to use than TritonEd, ” Flores said.
Those interested in reading more 
in-depth details about the transition to Canvas are encouraged by ETS to 
visit the Ed Tech website.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
LOSS By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianBY  troy tuquero
staff writer
troy tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.eduCAMPUS
UCSD to Replace TritonEd with Canvas by Spring 2020 in Response to Student Input
A campus-wide evaluation conducted by ETS in 2017 determined the interface was not meeting the needs of students and faculty alike.
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Beware the ghost of the finger.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
GPA on the grounds that his transfer grades should 
be included in the calculation. However, Giltner was ultimately still disqualified by the elections committee as Tritons United had already been disqualified, Vaughn informed the Guardian on April 11.
Giltner responded by appealing this decision, 
stating that he had been denied a fair hearing as he had not been able to attend the hearing. He additionally filed for an injunction, which would pause everything in terms of the election until the Judicial Board could meet and discuss the outstanding grievances. The injunction concerned the fact that current elections have violated free and fair elections and that candidates were unfairly taken off the ballot.
The Judicial Board dismissed his appeals in a meeting this afternoon and granted the injunction. However, due to the fact that the injunction only lasted until the Judicial Board was able to decide on the appeals, the injunction was immediately over.
The Judicial Board Set a Precedent by Holding that T ransfer Grades Can Be Used to Calculate GP As
▶ ELECTIONS , from page 1
tAnaya Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
voting isover easy!
crackin ’  lets get’
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
visit as.ucsd.edu/elections for AS Election 2019 informationA UC Office of  the President Spokesperson Claims the Unfair Labor Charge is a Publicity Stunt to Call Attention to Negotations
▶ AFSCME , from page 1
Angeles said to the Guardian. “There 
was also an incident at UC Davis, 
where a supervisor drove their truck 
at a picket line full of students and 
workers… He proceeded to get out of 
the car, swing objects at them and put 
someone in a headlock. ”
The UC Office of the President 
maintains their position as driven to reach an agreement with union 
leaders. They argue that AFSCME is 
more concerned about having strikes than actually coming to the negotiating 
table. 
“UC believes that AFSCME’s labor practice charge is nothing more than 
a blatant attempt to justify yet another 
strike. For the fourth time in under a 
year, union leaders will try – and again 
fail – to extract bargaining concessions 
from the university, ” UC Spokesperson 
Claire Doan said in an email.
“We have offered numerous 
competitive proposals, all of which union leaders have rejected without 
allowing a member vote. AFSCME 
leaders have not presented any substantive counteroffers since 
bargaining started in 2017. ”
Elected by union members, AFSCME’s bargaining team represents 
members’ preferences when discussing 
with UC negotiators, de Los Angeles 
said. The competitive proposals made 
by the UC Office of the President 
fail to acknowledge and address the 
union’s major grievances–namely 
outsourcing and inequality.
De Los Angeles further clarified 
that the protest on April 10 is much 
more fundamental than about worker’s 
wages and benefits. Rather, he stressed, it’s about the importance of being able 
to protest for workers’ rights without 
fear of repercussions, which is why AFSCME submitted the ULP charge in hopes of tangible litigation.
“The charge is sitting with [the 
Public Employment Relations Board]. The board investigates and decides 
whether or not to issue a complaint, ” 
de Los Angeles said. “If the complaint 
is not issued, we have the opportunity 
to appeal that. If the complaint is 
issued, then it goes to mediation. If the 
mediation fails, then a court date is set. 
This process is long, so we don’t expect anything to happen soon. ”
The board will now assign staff 
members to examine the individual claims made in the ULP charge. 
PERB will determine the deadline 
of the investigation and provide 
that information, when available, to 
AFSCME and the public.
andrew ha  ah1a@ucsd.edu
    “Having the person’s pronouns that 
they want to use gives them respect and honor for who they are in terms of their gender identity, ” Dr. Travers said.  “It deeply communicates inclusion and respect. ” 
In the past two years, Dr. Travers 
has brought together students from the trans and non-binary community and listend to their voices, which enables him to translate their needs into policies at the institutional level. 
Apart from Dr. Travers, the 
implementation of this policy has also been the effort of Vice Chancellor Becky Petitt, Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth H. Simmons, the Chancellor’s Advisory Committee on Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation Issues and the Gender Recognition Act and Steering Committee. 
 Gavin Granitto, a third year student 
from Muir college who identifies as a queer trans man, says that he was excited to hear about this new policy. 
“When not using a name that is a 
lived name or a person’s name that they go by now, it is invalidating their gender identity or multiple aspects of their identity, ” Granitto explained.
When sharing his personal 
experience of identity, Granitto said “something finally felt right” when he started using he/him/his pronouns. 
“When people would try to use my 
birth name or she/her/hers pronouns to actively not use my pronouns or the name that I am going by, it was really hurtful and invalidating to my identity, ” Granitto told the Guardian.
The impact of this new policy is 
not limited to the trans or non-binary community. 
According to Dr. Travers, it also 
makes an impact for people “who don’t want their legal names used because people mispronounce it all the time. ”
 The change in preferred names and pronouns will show up in rosters as students go to classes for the quarter following the update. However, there are still worries about how this policy will be carried out in day-to-day life. Granitto is worried whether professors with personal biases will follow it and what would be the push-back.
“It’s the first step in the door, ” 
Granitto said. “It doesn’t completely fix our problem about changing names on campus or pronouns awareness on campus because we still need them on ID cards. I think this is a great step in the direction. ” 
Students can change their preferred 
names and pronouns through the social identities link under “Personal Tools” in their MyTritonLink website.
Students Can Now Provide their Preferred Names and Pronouns on TritonLink
▶ PRONOUNS , from page 1
Vivian y ang  yiy288@ucsd.edu
Congratulations 
to our A.s. Election winners!4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINION
With 35,821 students enrolled at UC San Diego, educations are far from 
personalized; lower division courses for freshmen are usually packed, filling entire 
lecture halls. For example, Chemistry 6C this quarter has nearly 400 students enrolled in one course, led by a single professor and their teaching assistant team. However, this also means that any assigned work can equate to hours of grading and extra work. Many professors have turned to scantron tests over open-ended questions, and minimized assignments to the mere necessity. But in doing so, professors have created a standardized course format for lower division courses, consisting of one or two midterms, homework (if you’re lucky), and a final exam. This little variety in class structure can be unfavorable to students with test-taking anxiety or require alternate forms of learning, and reduces the inclusivity of UCSD’s academic culture.
Test anxiety is defined as a psychological 
condition that involves severe distress before, during and after an exam or test, and prevents students from performing to their full potential; research shows that nearly 20 percent of all students experience some form of test anxiety. This is visible across multiple lower division science and math courses. The final grade for the Math 20 series, or Calculus for Science and Engineering Majors, consists of 20 percent for the best of two midterms and 65 percent for the final, with a measly 15 percent allocated for homework. The same goes for introductory chemistry courses, or physics (where 60 percent of your grade is quizzes, and the rest is the final exam). 
These high-stakes exams and tests can also attribute to the shocking increase 
in academic integrity violations. The amount of cases have quadrupled in the last two decades, with cheating becoming prevalent through a plethora of methods and movements from ghost-writing, ghost-coding, and the good old-fashioned look over to your neighbor’s paper in times of desperation. However, the act of cheating can have destructive effects on the University’s validity of intellectual work, and can impact not only the student in question, but the instructor, department, and the entire faculty.
However, in courses with little variety in syllabus structure or diversity, students 
can turn to such options when in a tight spot. Across the US, educational research has shown that students require a variety of learning methods in order to truly master a concept, and for many, test-taking is not the ideal way to measure learning. Given the short ten weeks allocated to master a subject, as well as large class sizes and limited help, change must be advocated for in order to include students who are here to learn and develop career skills without the worry of a low GPA.
In many careers and post-graduate plans, the mere existence of exams and 
tests are obsolete. However, these plans do encourage and focus on a concept that is discouraged in many courses — collaboration. At a well-known research school, it would be imagined that collaboration and project-based thinking would be exacerbated in lower division courses in preparation for research contributions during upper-division standing. 
The first step can include implementing alternative learning strategies in the 
classroom. Lectures can quickly become monotonous and futile for students who require more personalized learning strategies in order to absorb the material to 
the extent required for the course. However, instructors can begin implementing alternate learning strategies, such as cooperative-learning groups, case studies, or simulations in order to add variety and promote learning in their class plans, even if it’s distributed over the last ten or five minutes of class.
Another step can include project-based 
learning in a course syllabus. Project-based learning is an institutional approach approach designed to provide students critical thinking skills similar to challenges they may face post 
graduation. It truly is “learning by doing”, and expands on a student’s communication abilities, creativity and understanding of the research process, which are all widely applicable in a variety of industries and employment opportunities. In addition, interdisciplinary learning can reduce stress levels and prevent test anxiety while allowing students with alternate learning needs an opportunity to succeed in courses that would usually be test and examination-heavy. 
Although grading projects and assignments can be a time-sink for teaching 
assistants, diversifying the syllabus of these test-heavy lower division courses can allow for inclusivity and greater range of student achievement through preparation for upper-division courses and post-graduation success. In addition, the implementation of projects and a variety of learning strategies can reduce test anxiety and overall stress, and in turn, lessen academic integrity violations that the school faces each year. By advocating for the expansion of course syllabi and academic expectations, UCSD instructors will experience stronger performance in courses as well as student engagement, and better prepare students for life after the dreaded final exam.
An Ode to Project-Based Learning
ByRajee Ganesan    staff writer
“...the act of cheating can have destructive 
effects on the University’ s validity of 
intellectual work, and can impact not only 
the student incquestion, but the instructor, 
department, and the entire faculty.”
Profit over People: Th e Conflict Between In and Out of State Students
By Adriana  Barrios     Opinion editor // Christopher Robertson     editor-in-Chief
The heading on the University of California website claims that it is “the only world-
class public research university for, by and of California. ” Of California is a self-indulgent 
claim when the University of California continually pushes to increase out-of-state enrollment at the cost of in-state students. Out-of-state student enrollment currently removes around 20-percent of total enrollment on each campus from in-state students who rely on the state for access to a somewhat more a ffordable education. Instead of 
concentrating funds on recruiting in-state students with little to no access to education without state support, the university has buckled under budgetary restraints to flood the 
UC system with students who pad their wallet. The pursuit for higher education will of 
course take people well beyond the state in which they were born, but for one person’s pursuit to come at the expense of California residents undermines the UC system’s goal to extend higher education to California residents.  
After complaints that out-of-state students were pushing Californians out of the system, 
an admissions cap was set to freeze the growth percentages at 24-percent for four of the campuses, and encourage out-of-state growth in the other five to 18-percent. Out-of-
state enrollment will total nearly a fourth of the total enrollment in the UC system under these parameters. This cap was supposed to reconcile the needs of in-state students for 
cheaper education with the financial constraints of limited federal funding. Most recently, 
President Janet Napolitano proposed increasing out-of-state tuition for the second year in a row, a proposal that would push economically disadvantaged students out of the system. The Regents board refused to even vote on the issue, opting to revisit under the promise 
of revision. 
Out-of-state enrollment began its upward climb following the 2008 recession. Out-
of-state tuition fees helped cover the dip in state funding and maintain enrollment levels across the UC campuses. Families and the state alike saw their financials take a serious hit, 
a blow bandaged for the UC system by out-of-state students. The students who could a fford 
to come across the country for university in this time were not the ones most a ffected by 
the recession, though. In 2018, only 12-percent of them qualified for Pell Grants. The UC 
system’s decision to promote out-of-state enrollment in a time of recession acknowledges their own struggles with economic downturn by ignoring how those same struggles limit access to higher education for in-state students. Without focusing on recruiting those Rajee Ganesan   rganesan@ucsd.edu
See EDUCATION,  page 5Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
STAC
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEEThese meetings are biweekly
and open to the public.The Student Transportation Advisory Committee  
is a board of student representatives from each of the 
six college councils, the Graduate Student Association, 
and the Associated Students designed to advise 
Transportation Services and other UCSD administrators 
on the execution of the UPass program and various 
Transportation and Parking issues on campus.
College representatives can be reached via their college 
councils and STAC leadership can be reached via 
stac@ucsd.edu. Feel free to send any questions or 
concerns you would like addressed at STAC to this email 
or AS's general contact form at as.ucsd.edu.
EYE AM THE FOOL   By System 32
Adriana  barrious   opinion@ucsdguardian.org▶ EDUCATION , from page 4
affected by economic hardship, the system managed to make ends meet 
using out-of-state students.
Inaccessible higher education does not a ffect everyone equally, 
especially when accessibility is prioritized for out-of-state students. Cost 
of attendance is the premier barrier for people of color to access higher education, and this is especially troublesome in California, the most diverse state in the country. So, to prioritize out-of-state students with 
enough wealth to attend wherever they please over in-state students 
who are disproportionately a ffected by economic barriers necessarily 
restricts access to higher education for people of color even more.  
To be clear, the problem is not personal, it is political. Out-of-
state students do not necessarily worsen the UC system by their mere attendance. Seeking the best higher education they can access is a common goal for students across the country; it just is not a common goal for state politicians. States could resolve so many woes in higher education if they deemed it worthy of funding, including the need for students to pay several times the cost of attendance of their own state colleges to attend the University of California. Rather than improving the quality of their own institutions, politicians have decided to outsource educating their residents to other states and to leave those residents to pay exorbitant prices for it. The success of the 
UC system is to some extent a testament of California’s commitment to higher quality education, but it is also an indictment of other state legislatures. Universities in other states can reach or exceed the level of the UC system if their state politicians saw education spending as a responsibility rather than a burden. 
The conflict between in-state and out-of-state students is not a moral 
one; the choice to pursue the best possible education is fair regardless of where the student begins and ends. The future is just disconcerting. 
If education quality is so much higher in select states, only the wealthy outside of those states have access to quality higher education, not to mention the most a ffected in-state residents who are pushed out as a 
result. California can not force other states to improve their institutions, but it also can not sacrifice its residents to compensate for the failure of other states’ politicians. Unfortunately for out-of-state students, the UC system must further restrict out-of-state enrollment if it is to meet its goal of being “for, by and of California. ”
 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
A student at UC San Diego is subject to academic probation if their 
quarter or cumulative GPA falls below the 2.0 threshold. If their 
GPA falls below 1.5 or if their cumulative GPA remains under 2.0 
after two quarters of being on academic probation, they’ll be academically disqualified.
But for senior Michelle Hipp, a biochemistry major from Thurgood 
Marshall College, the circumstances of her academic disqualification were 
not so black-and-white. As she single-handedly financially supported herself 
throughout her first year as an undergraduate, Hipp’s busy schedule meant 
that she struggled in her first few quarters of classes. She was placed on 
academic probation and academically disqualified shortly afterward. Her 
experience has convinced her that the academic disqualification policy at 
UCSD needs to be changed, for the sake of its students.
After graduating high school in San Diego, Hipp had moved out of her 
father’s home, begun classes at community college, and worked various odd 
jobs in order to support herself. She planned her classes so that they all fell 
on two days of the week— this way, she could work the rest of the week. Hipp 
had begun community college as a visual and performing arts major, but 
soon decided to switch her major to something more “realistic. ” Knowing 
she wanted to remain in San Diego, she decided to dip her toes into one 
of the region’s most lucrative industries: biotechnology. She changed her 
major to the high-unit biochemistry. After 
taking the classes necessary to transfer to 
a University of California, Hipp applied 
to various UC campuses and was accepted 
into UCSD, her dream school.
After going through some emotional 
struggles the summer before starting at 
UCSD, Hipp kept busy to distract herself 
once school started. She started an 
informal dog-walking business and began 
an internship at the prestigious J. Craig 
Venter Institute. After hearing her provost 
stress the importance of joining student organizations at orientation, Hipp 
acquired a leadership position with the Villagers in Programming and even 
started an edible community garden at The Village at Torrey Pines. Yet her 
grades suffered under the burden of her many obligations.
“I was so excited to be accepted into UCSD, I was like ‘this is a dream 
school, ’ Hipp said. “Coming into UCSD, though, it was really difficult to 
transition to the quarter-system, not to mention all of the things I was doing. 
I went to academic advising, I went to CAPS, I stopped doing my internship, 
but during spring quarter, I was struggling. ”
Hipp holds that her academic disqualification resulted from the larger 
problem that she didn’t have the financial security necessary to dedicate time to her grades. Though her financial aid paid covered tuition and living 
expenses, most was used on her housing at The Village. She had to work in order to cover her other living expenses, so her grades faltered. She appealed 
her disqualification, explaining her situation, but to no avail.
“The reason I didn’t get good grades was because I was struggling 
financially, ” Hipp said. “I didn’t have enough money, so I was stressed out all 
the time, it made my schedule so chaotic. ”
Determined to be readmitted, Hipp was willing to take the required year 
off from UCSD and take classes elsewhere.
“You can take these classes at UCSD Extension, but you have to pay 
for them, and they’re not cheap, ” Hipp said. “You even take the classes 
here on campus, in the same room, with other students, as if you weren’t 
academically disqualified. But they don’t count for your degree. ”
In the meantime, she had no place to live, having been notified that her 
appeal was rejected in July after her first year at UCSD. She tried looking for a place in a women’s shelter, but was unsuccessful, so she moved to 
the east coast to live with her sister and take community college classes 
online. Her newfound free time meant that her grades were nearly perfect, 
and she returned to UCSD after her year away. This time, Hipp found the 
Basic Needs program, which connected her to a caseworker to help her find housing and receive food stamps, which eliminated some financial worries. 
But her overall experience left her even more financially burdened than she 
was to begin with.
“It felt like the end of my life. I had worked so hard for this, and for them 
to just kick me out without really considering what was going on— I don’t 
want it to happen to someone else who really wants to be in school, ” Hipp 
said. “I’m from an impoverished area, and this situation has left me more 
impoverished. ”
Hipp feels that her entire situation wasn’t considered when the decision 
was made to academically disqualify her. It’s a numbers game, she stresses, 
which doesn’t factor in any part of a student’s life other than their GPA.
“I want to ask the provost: why don’t they have an interview with the 
student they’re academically disqualifying? They just make this decision 
without consulting the student, ” Hipp said. “I got into UCSD, my dream 
school, just to get academically disqualified. I felt like I was doing a ton of 
good things, showing leadership. I tried to have this conversation with the 
provost, and she was super defensive. ”
Hipp questions what benefit academic disqualification is meant to 
achieve. She is firmly convinced that the academic disqualification itself 
needs a significant revamping. For now, she holds that the policy seems to 
be an attempt at a deterrent for academically disqualified students to return 
to school.
“What is the lesson to be learned from 
kicking people out? You can’t just kick people out of school all willy-nilly. That’s a 
huge deal, ” Hipp said. “I don’t understand 
the point of taking a year off and going 
through all of those discouraging loops. 
They expect you to go to UCSD Extension 
and charge you for classes that you would 
normally be taking as a student anyway. ”
Hipp made attempts to communicate 
with her provost about her academic 
disqualification: she wished to discuss why she felt the academic disqualification policy was unfair and to explain why her financial 
circumstances had affected her academic performance, but her attempts have 
been met with curt response. Hipp is clearly an ambitious, organized, and 
hardworking individual, and she once had dreams of getting her doctorate 
and working in academia. But now, she’s discouraged. She feels that UCSD, 
and her college, Marshall, are failing to demonstrate the values they claim to 
emulate and even the very person they strive to represent.
“When I moved to my sister’s house after getting disqualified, I was 
walking down the street with my sisters and there was a book on the ground. I just happened to pick it up, and it was Thurgood Marshall’s biography, ” 
Hipp said. “He got some Cs in school, but he barely put in any effort. 
He started taking himself seriously in graduate school and became really successful. I feel his story is very similar to my story. ”
Most of all, Hipp feels there needs to be a more prioritized and genuine 
care for students, including those who are academically struggling. She 
understands the nature of a large public university, but she feels that there 
should be some concern for a student’s well-being when it comes to the 
decision to academically disqualify them, rather than focusing solely on 
their GPA number. Hipp has now returned to school at UCSD and is getting 
good grades, now that some of her financial burden has been lifted. She 
plans to finish out her senior year, and she’ll have to take a few extra classes 
next year to complete her degree. But she still feels that her situation could 
have been handled in a less discouraging way.
“What they could have done is, after they saw that I got into school and 
I’m getting Cs, call me in for a meeting with academic advising, ” Hipp said. “I think that the departments need to be in better contact with each other: 
the mental health services, the student services, the financial aid department, 
my major department, and my college. They could have all come together 
to see what was happening. They didn’t take everything into consideration. ” 
Critiquing   UCSD's   Academic 
Disqualifica tion   Policy
One student’s academic disquali fication experience left her discouraged, confused, and convinced that 
the policy must be changed.
By charlotte  armstrong      senior staff Writer
“Hipp feels that her entire situation 
wasn’t considered when the decision 
was made to academically disqualify 
her. It’s a numbers game, she stresses, 
which doesn’t factor in any part of a 
student’ s life other than their GP A.”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is among the world’s most pressing and controversial 
foreign policy issues. The world is divided between the two sides, with the majority 
of the world’s diplomatic powers and media coverage supporting the Israeli narrative. In 1948, Israel, the first Jewish state, was established in the land of Palestine. Today, as Israel continues to build settlements out of Palestinian territory, Palestinians continue to be driven out of their homeland and denied basic human rights.
Palestine has a rich history that stretches far beyond the creation of Israel in 1948, 
but the limited scope of this article will focus on the creation of Israel and how this contributed to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
Nineteenthand twentieth century Jewish migrations saw the rise and spread of 
Jewish persecution and the accompanying increase in anti-Semitism across Europe. This prompted the development of Zionism, the political movement and ideology supporting the establishment of an exclusively Jewish homeland in what is now Israel. However, it is important to distinguish the religion of Judaism from the Zionist political movement— not all Jews are Zionists, and not all Zionists are Jews. 
“It’s important to note that Jews are people who believe in God or religion, ” Aziz 
Mogannam, a John Muir College sophomore originally from Palestine, explained. “Zionists have a different definition— they support a movement. They’re people who believe in it, who want a political game, a political outcome. It has nothing to do with religion. ”
Zionists have inhabited Palestine since 1948, when over 750,000 indigenous 
Palestinians were expelled from their land during the Nakba (or “The Great Catastrophe, ” as it is known by Palestinians), the deliberate mass expulsion, ethnic cleansing, and genocide intended to facilitate the creation of the new state of Israel. The Nakba didn’t start and end in 1948— it still continues today, as Palestinians are displaced and killed while Israel works to build more settlements. 
The creation of Israel is a case of settler colonialism because a separate group 
of Zionist settlers took over an already-inhabited indigenous territory, aiming to replace the indigenous Palestinians with new Jewish settlers. The settler colonialists imposed an Israeli system of aparthied against Palestinians through ethnic cleansing, forced displacement, and prohibition from accessing basic necessities such as food and water. The Israeli government also built a wall on Palestinian land, around the West Bank, presumably to provide a “security barrier” against terrorism, but more likely for the purpose of restricting Palestinian movement. The case of the West Bank Apartheid Wall possesses often overlooked similarities to President Trump’s proposed US-Mexico border wall.
“[The West Bank Apartheid Wall] is illegal by the International Court of Justice 
(ICJ), ” Mogannam said, because the wall violates the UN Charter. “However, the UN isn’t doing much, though. The UN only talks, but they don’t actually have the power to really remove it. ”
The UN has received substantial criticism for its lack of action. UN Resolution 
3236 recognizes the Palestinian right to self-determinination, as well as the right of refugees to return to land they were forcibly forced to flee. In denying Palestinians this right, Israel has blatantly violated international law. Neither the UN nor the broader international community has done anything to resolve this. 
For Palestinians, the West Bank Apartheid Wall has restricted their movement, 
denied them access to water and utilities such as electricity, and isolated their towns and communities. Constant military presence restricts Palestinian access to water in a system of water apartheid, one of the most overlooked aspects of the conflict. Israel controls all West Bank water sources and Palestinians are required to obtain special permits if they wish to build alternative water infrastructure. Palestinians are allocated a limited quantity of (typically contaminated) water on a specified daily or weekly basis, depending on the area, whereas the Israelis receive greater quantities 
of water with less difficulty. 
“Everyone who lives [in Palestine] is affected 
by the wall, ” Mogannam said. “Where I live, water 
comes twice a week or three times a week. When the water comes, people fill up their water tanks so that when the water is out they have enough water to survive. Electricity’s out too — all that is controlled by Israel. ”
The wall has also contributed to additional violence committed by the Israeli 
soldiers stationed to monitor border crossings and otherwise maintain stability. 
“Some people live right next to the wall, which means they wake up everyday to 
an Israeli just standing on the wall, pointing guns at them. I’ve had friends of friends being shot and killed. I’ve seen people die. I’ve seen people getting shot in front of me. ”
The constant presence of Israeli soldiers is something that Palestinians are 
expected to live with. Occupying Israeli military troops frequently use violence against the Palestinians, regardless of if they are protestors or bystanders. There are multiple media accounts attempting to portray the unjust realities of Israeli military occupation. Instagram user @robert_martin_palestine_, for example, has posted videos of Israeli soldiers shooting, arresting, and otherwise brutally mistreating the Palestinian people. 
Mogannam launched into a personal recollection of a man throwing stones at 
Israeli tanks, a common demonstration of Palestinian resistance. 
“Once I was on the roof of my house and I saw a guy who was running away from 
the military, ” he recalled. “When the Israelis come in, people usually throw stones at their tanks, which doesn’t do anything, but it’s just a sign that we’re fighting back. This guy was throwing stones and then he gets shot. You could tell they didn’t want to get near him. They let him die, bleed out on the ground and die. ”
Settlers and soldiers often attack Palestinians, who experience this type of violence 
so frequently that it’s become normalized. 
“I think that they just hate everyone who lives there, ” Mognnam said, referring 
to the Israeli soldiers stationed in Palestine to uphold Israeli interests. “They believe that Palestinians are the enemy and they cannot seem to understand that because they’re soldiers. They’re definitely brainwashed. They don’t understand that we are trying to defend ourselves and not attack them. They’re the ones who are attacking us. There’s no means of defense in to going into other person’s country for no reason. There’s no way, there’s no logical explanation that shows creating settlements is a means of defense for the Israelis. There’s no way. ”
There are two mainstream proposals to resolve the conflict. The first, the two-
state solution, proposes the creation of an independent Israel and of an independent Palestine. Simply put, neither side is able to agree on a fair or equal recognition of borders. The second, the one-state solution, proposes a unified Israeli-Palestinian state. Due to the complex and ideologically divisive nature of the conflict, this is the less popular option. 
Negotiations have failed because Israel has no reason to work toward an agreement. 
Israel is the stronger side with power over the weaker side; it has settlements, a strong military presence, a wall, and effective control over Palestine. It is unlikely that Israel would voluntarily make concessions to weaken its power. 
The peace process has further delayed as the world’s major international figures 
have become more and more complicit in watching Israel violate international law and ignore basic principles of human rights. Trump’s 2017 decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, despite Palestinian consideration of Jerusalem as their own capital, demonstrates continued US support of Israeli sovereignty. This refusal to stand up for Palestine, or hold the Israeli government accountable, is worsening the conflict and is contributing to an already-delayed peace process. 
“What’s scaring me is not America’s influence in the Middle East, ” he said, “which 
is a whole different topic, but it’s Israel’s influence of the US. No one’s going to stop Israel. They have the support of the world. They are getting funded from everyone, 
Zionists and governments and everything. Why would they sit at the table and make a deal and do it when they can just do whatever they want?”
Ultimately, Mogannam believes, the path to 
most realistic resolution starts by forcing the Israelis to the negotiation table. Otherwise, he says, on a more grassroots level, students can generally boycott Israeli companies that are directly related to violence. 
Various actors in the political, legal, and 
business spheres have taken their own form of 
action by participating in a formal global campaign called the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which, according to their website, “works to end international support for Israel’s oppression of Palestinians and pressure Israel to comply with international law. ” By encouraging divestment from companies supporting the Israeli occupation of Palestine, the movement non-violently puts pressure on Israel to meet three particular demands:
1) Ending its occupation and colonization of all Arab lands and dismantling the Wall2) Recognizing the fundamental rights of the Arab-Palestinian citizens of Israel to 
full equality
3) Respecting, protecting and promoting the rights of Palestinian refugees to return 
to their homes and properties as stipulated in UN Resolution 194
Versions of a bill for divestment were presented to the UCSD Associated 
Studentsin 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013. The 2013 bill passed, but these funds have yet to be divested. Every university in the University of California system has passed an Israeli divestment proposal, with the exception of UC Santa Barbara, which, on Thursday, rejected their BDS proposal for the sixth time in seven years. 
Palestinians are still fighting for freedom and basic human rights. Hopefully 
students at UCSD can become more aware of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and of the injustice Palestinian people have to live with. 
“Well, when you lived there, it seems normal until you move out and you see what 
freedom is — then you know that you weren’t living in freedom. [Coming to San Diego] was very different. It’s nice to have the feeling of being able to go wherever 
you want and being free to be able to say whatever you want. However, sometimes, 
I feel like even in the US we’re oppressed. Sometimes it’s wrong to fight for certain people— or to raise awareness about the Palestinian issue. ” 
 Palestine's Fight for Justice
A look at the history surrounding the Israeli-Palestinian con flict and how it persists today.
By lara sanli       Senior staff Writer
“Some people live right next to the wall, 
which means they wake up everyday to an 
Israeli just standing on the wall, pointing 
guns at them. I’ve had friends of friends 
being shot and killed. I’ve seen people die. 
I’ve seen people getting shot in front of me.”The Palestinian loss of land due to the construction of Israeli settlements. 
A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“Dream small, or not at all, ” is a concept many students believe in, and one that tends to limit the potential to reach larger goals. Everyone has potential but 
sometimes we don’t know how to use it because we resort to giving up. The key to overcoming said challenges is simply to never give up, even if you think the 
whole world is starting to fall apart in front of your eyes. Instead, just remember to keep pushing through and not give up. If you decide to give up, then you have decided to stay in the exact same spot you were in yesterday. I know that it seems easier to give up, but how does that benefit you or anyone around you? How do you come to the conclusion of giving up in the first place? Do you give up because something is difficult, because you don’t want to do it, or because you have tried various ways to reach the same goal and it didn’t pan out the way you thought? 
I feel as though I have found an answer, and for me, it’s simply to make a name for myself. To pave the way for future generations and open up opportunities 
for my future children. I will not be handed my dream; I will work for it and work hard. I want to be a “somebody” with a purpose because my life has meaning, all of our lives have meaning.
I am a literature major, and a lot of reading comes with it as well as stress, which is something that I am sure all majors have in common. There are times when 
I am falling behind on my readings, starting papers that are due the next day, and beginning projects the morning of. However, I am determined to finish school. After I graduated high school in 2010, I went on to become a full-time worker at Target, and trying to balance community college with a job was a difficult task for me. Instead, I wanted to make money and focus all of my energy on living on my own. “Education will always be there, ” I would tell myself, and then it was 2015, and I was jobless and pregnant. Oh, how the time flew, and I was still at the same community college with no degree. I had hit rock bottom, and there was only one way to go: up. I started doing this for my son as well as myself, and with that new mentality, I graduated with an associate’s degree in 2018, got accepted into UC San Diego, and now I’m here with all you fine people. By no means am I telling you to get pregnant and have your muse be your child, but we all have a challenge 
we are scared to overcome. Some of us are returning students who may have taken a break and decided to go back to school in our 30s, some of us are parents still 
pursuing a degree, and some of us are straight out of high school still trying to figure out what we want to be when we grow up. Overcoming a challenge doesn’t have to revolve around school or work. It could be about life in general, such as breaking a knee and relearning how to walk again or cooking a Thanksgiving feast for your entire family for the first time.
Whenever I felt myself getting lazy or falling behind, or even when I was stressing out to the point where I would just cry silently at night, I would meditate. It 
is okay to cry. Giving up shouldn’t be in our vocabulary, although, I myself have given up plenty of times and I feel embarrassed admitting that. I am always asking myself, why am I here? Why do I love giving up so much? For what purpose was I put on this Earth? Whenever I would say to myself, “I can’t do this, ” I had my son there telling me, “Yes, you can. ” Whenever you are feeling overwhelmed, it is okay to yell into your pillow after seeing a test score, it is okay to curse out to the universe as you stare at your essay grade. It is okay to be human! Defeating your challenges doesn’t happen overnight; it takes time, focus, and determination. When you have family members, professors, and random grocery store workers telling you that they are proud of you and they admire you, then you are doing something right in the world — and that was all because you didn’t give up. If you feel like you have no one because you are far from home or a loner, just remember that I believe in you and you are doing a great job!Spring is the time of fresh starts. If you’re feeling like 2019 has been especially rough to you 
already, take this new season to take a step back, take a deep breath, and make sure your space, body, and mind are refreshed before the quarter gets even harder. 
For your space
I find that I can’t focus as well when my room is messy, but when my space is neat, the weight is 
lifted right off my shoulders. Have a set time each week to take out the trash, clean up your desk, and hang up the clothes that have been sitting on your chair for the last few days. If you need to, buy organizers so everything has a defined place. Practice some Marie Kondo-ing for clothes you don’t wear anymore. 
I find that sticking to this rule makes my life a lot simpler: If it takes less than two minutes, do 
it now. For example, if it will take less than two minutes to wash a dish, do it in that moment rather than leaving it in the sink for the whole day. If it only takes two minutes to make your bed, do it right when you get up, so you’re not tempted to get back under your covers. 
My final tip would be to buy plants! Succulents make a great addition to any room, and if you’re 
feeling like you want to bring a little spring inside, opt for some fresh flowers every once in a while. 
For your body
When I’m stressed, I gravitate toward junk food like chips or chocolate in the hopes that it’ll make 
me feel better. While they sometimes help, I tend to feel even worse after. Opting for healthier foods, especially during midterm weeks when everyone starts getting sick, can help your immune system 
and your energy levels. Choose healthy foods that you actually like to eat for a higher chance of 
sticking with them. 
Make sure you’re drinking enough water. An easy way to calculate how much water you should be 
drinking per day is by halving your weight, but this can differ depending  on how active you are. For example, if someone was 150 lbs, they should be drinking around 75 ounces of water a day, but if that person has a very active lifestyle, they should drink more than 75 ounces. 
The last thing I would recommend is sticking to a consistent exercise schedule. You don’t have 
to start going to the gym every day — start slow by going three times a week, then slowly build up to four or five, if you can. If you’re like me and you hate running, try to find other ways to get your heart rate up: take a dance class, jog with a friend, or join an intramural sports team. When I lived on campus, I loved the Fit-Yoga pass because it offered me unlimited access to so many amazing classes like pilates, barre, and zumba. At only $70, it’s a great deal for students. I know exercising after a long day of class and club meetings is usually the last thing anyone wants to do, but you’ll feel so much more energized after. I’m finding that it’s a nice way to end my day. 
For your mind 
First, take a step back and reflect on how this year has been going for you so far. How much sleep are you getting? What is your general mood like? Do you 
often feel overwhelmed?
College students are notoriously stressed, and while some amount of stress is actually good since it keeps us going, too much stress can put a strain on our lives. As you look toward the rest of this quarter, think about the things you can change. Maybe it’s reducing your class load, maybe it’s taking on less responsibility 
in one of your organizations, or maybe it’s simply asking for help from friends or professionals. One of the best and easiest tips I’ve heard is that when you feel stressed or anxious, listen to your breath. If it’s short and shallow, take a minute to inhale and exhale deeply. 
It’s also important to remember that, sometimes, you can’t do it all yourself. We often get so lost in the bustle of school and work that we forget to check in on 
our own thoughts and feelings. Practice mindfulness by checking in on yourself — and don’t forget to check in with others. Remind your friends that they are not in this world alone, and get through the rest of this school year together
Conquering the UnbelievableSpring Cleaning: For your Space, Body, and Mind    
By CLAUDIA  MIRANDA       Contributing WriterBy ANNIKA  OLIVES       LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Maintaining your space allows for better mental well-beingPHOTO COURTESY OF VOLHA FLAXECOFor the past couple of years, my birthday has completely snuck 
up on me. Suddenly, my birthday month, April, arrives and I feel a 
need to begin planning an epic birthday celebration so that I do not get let down or have a disappointing day. I have noticed recently that many people around me, who I meet on campus or at work, have April birthdays. It must be a popular month! With Spring quarter just 
beginning , the pressures of balancing classwork along with jobs and 
social life might make it seem impossible to have a birthday that lives up to expectations. But, even while being a busy college student, you can still enjoy your birthday and hopefully conclude the day with a feeling of contentment, rather than a feeling of discouragement.
In coming to terms with having my birthday happen during the 
week yet again, I have realized that it is important to try and separate my birthday from the need to have an extravagant and magical day. Y our birthday should celebrate you, and your enactment of this celebration should focus on whatever makes you happy. These things don’t even need to be out of the ordinary, as long as they make you content. If you do not have time to have a fancy restaurant outing with the promise of 
a free dessert, you can still save money on food and drinks, especially in 
La Jolla and even on campus. Veggie Grill, Daphne’s, Einstein Brothers, and Starbucks are all nearby businesses with birthday clubs that are easy to sign up for. Veggie Grill and Daphne’s, both located near campus, give you $5 off your purchase and you can use your coupon 
up to a week after your birthday. Einstein Brothers, also near campus, 
gives you a free breakfast sandwich if you buy a coffee or juice. This is a 
perfect way to treat yourself to a full breakfast on your way to class and 
wake up from your mid-week coma. Lastly, Starbucks gives you a free drink (of any on-menu size!) or food item on the day of your birthday, which is a blessing if you are stuck on campus all day. All of these coupons can be used to treat yourself to an affordable meal or drink during the quarter. Y ou could even go to  different restaurants throughout your birthday week and experience the celebration for multiple days.
Another problem with birthdays in college is being separated from your close friends who may attend other colleges or who live far away from San Diego. A good way to 
deal with this problem involves trying to accept that as you get older, your actual birth date might need to be separated from your birthday celebration. For example, during breaks when your friends are together, celebrate all the birthdays that you’ve missed while you’ve been away. Even though it will not be your actual birthday, you can still enjoy time with friends, exchange gifts, and do group activities.
Additionally, a lesson can be learned from reminiscing. From what I remember from high school, finally having your birthday and getting to go to school meant being 
showered with attention. It would have been a social tragedy for my birthday to fall on a weekend during high school. I remember dressing up, carrying around balloons and signs from friends that advertised that it was my birthday, and feeling like my birthday meant more just because the people around me recognized it with me. In today’s reality on my upcoming birthday: I will probably leave my house in sweatpants, spend my normal hour in morning traffic to get to campus, and then trudge to my morning shift at work before finally fully waking up as I get to my desk and drink my peach flavored Y erba Mate (which has become an obsession at this point of my college career). My birthday will be an exceedingly average day and I will be experiencing my first day of being 22 by taking a philosophy quiz. Y et, I feel hopeful that I will achieve birthday bliss. If you also happen to be struggling with the idea of your dulled-down upcoming birthday, you can now experience a birthday that does not leave you with a longing for more extravagance. This year, make your birthday about you; go out and enjoy your day, leave the high school days behind, and allow yourself one day free of worry about classes and homework.LIFESTYLE                             T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  9
Use your phone as your 
mobile ticket to ride. 
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
Moving to my own rhythm.
Student fees provide 
unlimited rides for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.  
Current registration/enrollment 
and valid @ucsd.edu email address 
required to activate account.Your Spring Quarter U-Pass is 
valid through June 30, 2019
Download the 
Compass Cloud App and check for updates.Make sure to treat yourself to a break on your birthday! Proper self care goes a long wayBeating the Birthday Blues
By Carla  al tomare       Contributing Writer
ART BY ALLYSON LACUNA10                                                                    T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
US
PHOTO COURTESY OF ROLLING STONE
Directed by   Jordan Peele
Starring  Lupita Nyong’o, Winston Duke, Elizabeth Moss, Tim Heidecker, Shahidi Wright Joseph, Evan Alex
Release Date  March 22, 2019
Rated  RCA-
“Us” o ffers a chilling addition to the horror genre with an indescribable twist.
With the follow-up to his wildly 
successful directorial debut with 2017’s “Get Out, ” director Jordan 
Peele has again proven himself to be a rising visionary in speculative horror. “Us” follows mother Adelaide Wilson (Lupita Nyong’ o) and her family during their beachside vacation 
in Santa Cruz, which takes a terrifying turn 
when the Wilsons are confronted by their bloodthirsty dopplegangers. What starts as an intriguing installment in the home invasion subgenre encroaches beyond the restrictive 
confines of the home toward apocalypse, once 
it is revealed that they are not the only ones being attacked by their duplicates.  
Boasting a star-studded cast, the film 
comes off more than anything as a spectacle of Nyong’ o’s miraculous acting skills. Nyong’ o matches her already wonderfully desperate performance as the fiercely protective Adelaide with a truly terrifying dual performance as 
her vengeful doppelganger, Red. As soon as 
Nyong’ o first speaks as Red, dominating the scene with her guttural rasp, she instantly solidifies herself in the canon of iconic horror villains. Nyong’ o’s coarse utterances and bug-eyed, chin-high facial contortions 
mark a performance for the ages, delightfully 
unsettling and remarkable in its delivery. Nyong’ o has sensibly apologized for drawing inspiration from a neurological disorder called 
spasmodic dysphonia upon receiving criticism 
from disabled rights activists. The film is additionally anchored by a superb supporting cast, with Winston Duke as Adelaide’s husband, providing sporadic comedic relief 
through Peele’s brand of absurdist humor, 
and possibly the second greatest performance given by the young Shahidi Wright Joseph as their cheeky daughter Zora. 
“Us” is a relentless, gripping ride that 
rarely ever pauses for a breath. Constrained within a single night, the film leaves viewers suspended in a state of unforgiving emergency, as the Wilson family fights for survival while 
the surrounding world implodes on itself. 
It would not be a stretch to say that the film’s foreboding and oppressive atmosphere would not be nearly as successful without its fantastic soundtrack. Michael Abels, who also worked on the score for “Get Out, ” lends his 
genius to the film’s remix of Luniz’s “I Got 5 
On It, ” which is sure to induce mass panic in its accompaniment to the film’s wonderfully choreographed climactic battle. 
With his latest film, Peele presents an 
intriguing paradigm shift in his artistic philosophy by re-focusing the figure of an unknowable other as the producer of horror onto ourselves. In the end, what is revealed 
by the relation between our real world selves 
and our vengeful clones presents a puzzling situation that defies a traditional binary of good versus evil, that instead asks what 
if certain facets of our own human selves 
unconscionably bring about apocalypse? Peele may have insisted that despite having a black-led cast, his film does not address issues of race, but that does not mean “Us” is 
entirely apolitical, breaching still on themes 
of class division and its deep rootedness in the American social fabric. Whereas “Get Out” derived horror from an explicitly racist evil of faux liberalism, “Us” focuses on the guilt of a subconscious ignorance to the worlds in which 
we inhabit and the hyperbolic trajectory such 
lack of consciousness may set society towards. 
“Us” is a masterclass in suspense and 
narrative worldbuilding — once the horror 
begins, it’s a rush of action that won’t let go 
until its penultimate (albeit sloppily executed) twist. Peele has intricately crafted a truly unique new world built on what is already there, inventively incorporating 80’s nostalgia 
and abandoned national landmarks into its 
narrative fabric. Peele has again shown himself to be a creative genius, staking himself to be an exciting new face in the American horror 
canon. We are just witnessing the beginning. 
 
— JUSTIN  NGuyENFILM   REVIEW
For thirteen weeks, I looked forward to my 
weekly Monday routine: crashing down on the couch after a day of classes and 
jamming to the psychedelic opening of “Mob Psycho 100” season two. The opening terrifically represents the anime, with its kaleidoscope of various art styles, quirky cast of characters, and 
flashy fight scenes that serve as eye candy for 
anyone with an appreciation for animation.
From ONE, the same creator of the popular 
“One Punch Man, ” this story centers around Shigeo Kageyama, nicknamed Mob. As a socially 
awkward middle schooler with psychic abilities, 
he deals with what you might expect — learning how to make friends, trying to impress his crush, and fighting evil spirits. Under his boss and 
master, Arataka Reigen, Mob hones his social 
skills and powers as the two of them (but mainly Mob) perform exorcisms for clients.
While season one was a more typical slice-
of-life sh ōnen (anime targeting a young male 
audience), with Mob adjusting to middle school life and dealing with a ragtag array of petty antagonists, season two amps up the ante. Mob single-handedly takes on opponents so powerful that even Thanos would tremble. Antagonists 
include a dangerous spirit named Mogami 
possessing a girl, a psychic bent on exposing Reigen’s fraud psychic skills, and a psychic army taking over the world. This season also sees the 
friendship between Mob and Reigen tested. To say the least, the animators behind 
“Mob Psycho 100” have an eye for detail. Peppered 
throughout the opening, and the episodes 
themselves, are seemingly innocuous and 
random objects, such as broccoli and sunflowers, that actually foreshadow later story arcs in the series. Supporting this visual storytelling is an 
unconventional art style. While ONE’s distinctive 
art style may be crude and off-putting to the unfamiliar, it suits the psychic aspects and wry humor of  “Mob Psycho 100. ”
In a refreshing move, “Mob Psycho 100” 
departs from the generic, frequently sexualized styles of many anime shows, in favor of a style that allows visual gags and animated expressions. For example, it integrates other forms of animation 
and design, such as paint-on glass animation 
(which creates an oil painting appearance) and direct pencil sketches that mimic the original manga.
In season two, the full extent of capabilities of 
this art style is pushed to new limits with bigger and bolder fight scenes. Admittedly, the stakes start to wear down as both villains and Mob grow to unfathomable powers and characters become almost physically indestructible. But this 
is only a small problem, because these massive 
showdowns are, frankly, just super cool.
The fight scenes continue to be the anime’s 
stand-out quality. The neon colors and 
choreography in such animated scenes are evocative of “Spider-Man: Into the Spiderverse, ” 
and their earth-bending, physics-defying qualities bring “Inception” and “Doctor Strange” to mind. 
Fluid action shots that combine swiveling camera 
movements and dramatic perspectives easily rival the cinematography of many live-action, CGI-bloated movies today. All this is made 
possible because of the inherent flexibility of 2D 
animation as a medium, as well as the talent of Bones, the animation studio behind “Mob Psycho 100” and other well-known anime like “Fullmetal Alchemist” and “My Hero Academia. ” 
 While fights take on a whole new 
dimension this season — quite literally, too — “Mob Psycho 100” remains earnestly steadfast in its devotion to character development. When he’s 
not busy battling otherworldly beings or going 
to class, Mob develops his interests and identity. The season’s emphasis on personal growth is best encapsulated in the anime’s opening, which ends with the phrase, “YOUR LIFE IS YOUR OWN. ”
Mob is undeniably the heart of “Mob Psycho 
100. ” What Mob chooses to do, time after time, is to be selfless and kind to both people and spirits, friends and villains. He indiscriminately humanizes them, and this season showcases just 
how impactful his forgiveness and sympathy  can 
be to those around him. The end result is a cast of multifaceted, realistic characters, who, like Mob, grow and change. In a Q&A with streaming 
service Crunchyroll, director Y uzuru Tachikawa remarks, “Y ou’ d expect to dislike at least one 
character out of such a large cast; I don’t, though. ”
As an adaptation of the source manga, the 
anime does a respectable job at incorporating many of the manga’s highlights in season two. While some criticize Bones for leaving out key panels from the manga, such as darker moments 
from the Mogami story arc, many agree that the 
anime has effectively created its own version of the “Mob Psycho 100” story while staying true to its original source.
Whether a season three is in the works is 
still up for discussion. The original manga was completed in 2017, and manga readers note the small amount of original material left that can be adapted, making it likely that season 
three, if confirmed, would be the last season. 
Nonetheless, it was recently confirmed that there will be an OV A (Original Video Animation), or a standalone “episode, ” in the meantime.
In an interview about “Mob Psycho 100, ” 
ONE explains how “I wanted it to be something that feels kind. ” The anime successfully fulfills ONE’s wishes, delivering a well-developed and beautifully animated show where you can’t help but root for everyone.
—  Natalie Tran
Senior Staff Writer
ANIME   REVIEW
"MOB  Psycho 100" Season Two
PHOTO COURTESY OF POLYGON
Studio   Bones
Director  Yuzuru Tachikawa
Starring   Setsuo It ō, Takahiro Sakurai, Akio Ōtsuka
Release Date  January 7, 2019 - April 1, 2019Ca
Season two of “Mob Psycho 100” successfully delivers top-notch animation, action, and characterization.A&E     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
SHAZAM!
PHOTO COURTESY OF PHILLY .COM
Directed by   David F. Sandberg
Starring  Zachary Levi, Mark Strong, Asher Angel, Jack Dylan Grazer, Djimon Hounsou
Release Date  March 22, 2019
Rated  PG-13CB-
“Shazam!” isn’t as electric as it was said to be.
In the comics, he was originally known as 
“Captain Marvel. ” New to the big screen, 
he steamrolls through several makeshift 
nicknames — “Thundercrack, ” “Captain Sparklefingers, ” “Red Cyclone. ” But, the one quirky catchword that’s become his official moniker 
is the phrase he exclaims before transforming 
into the eye-popping, crimson-caped crusader: 
Shazam! (exclamation point included).
Like lightning piercing a gloomy sky, “Shazam!” 
is the bright and flashy feature among its grim and 
dark DC Extended Universe counterparts — and 
the only one with an excitable title. Distinguishing 
itself as a lighthearted comedy peppered with 
heartwarming, feel-good family ties, the hero 
flick is initially entertaining, but then it flounders 
in delivering anything refreshing.  
Behind the grueling business of every great 
hero comes a form of doting family that heartens 
the hero’s taxing and rigid lifestyle. The film 
emphasizes finding and accepting those who will 
support you, weaving in the sweet message that 
family can be built beyond bloodline. Growing 
up as a foster kid, Billy Batson migrated from 
household to household, leaving him wary and 
untrusting of filial love and commitment. Though 
his melancholic childhood makes for a brooding 
story, he turns out to be quite the mischief 
maker and good-natured protector upon meeting 
his new adoptive, Cheaper-By-the-Dozen-esque family. 
Under another roof, Billy meets his uniquely 
lovable (and surprisingly diverse) cast of step-siblings who are all foster children too. Out of 
five kids, the first to befriend a troubled Billy is blabbermouth and superhero aficionado, Freddie 
Freeman (Jack Dylan Grazer). His immediate 
bond with his new brother is a highlight of the 
film, as young Grazer seems to add a naturally 
witty rapport and giddiness to the characters’ fraternal relationship. Playing Shazam’s faithful 
sidekick, he slips into an effortlessly zippy 
dynamic, and retains an endearing chemistry 
with both the actors who play the electrically-
charged super-human.           
Individually, Zachary Levi and Asher Angel 
epitomize the role of Billy Batson very well. Levi uses a frisky and goofy charm to capture a boyish 
spirit within a grown man’s body, while Angel 
embodies the tough and scrappy demeanor of a 
fourteen-year-old forced to mature at an early age. 
However, their different portrayals of this shared 
character is precisely why Shazam’s personality 
feels inconsistent. Because the film frequently 
ricochets between his mini and Herculean alter 
egos, the two versions’ dispositions become 
disconnected, and thus, it becomes difficult to 
ground the hero’s singular identity.
Endowed to him by a magical predecessor, 
most of Billy Batson’s superpowers are the classics: superstrength, superspeed, super-flying, 
and other staple super-somethings. Of course, 
these abilities on cinematic display look polished 
and impressive, but they also seem repetitive and 
forgettable, lacking a spark of original action play. With the power to manipulate electricity and 
the fat insignia of a lightning bolt on his broad-
chested costume, perhaps Shazam could have 
distinguished himself with a more hair-frizzing, 
finger-zapping, and thunderous potential.      
Rather, the action sequences contain 
unsightly, grimy CGI monsters that represent 
the Seven Deadly Sins. There’s no explanation to 
why these manifestations of Biblical villains are 
in close rivalry with Shazam’s antecedents, but 
they somehow land in the hands of the ultimate 
big-bad, Doctor Thaddeus (Mark Strong), to 
exploit and — in old-fashioned evil-doing — 
take over the world. Although he is introduced 
as quite the formidable megalomaniac with a 
traumatic backstory, his character is reduced into 
a laughable opponent. The movie automatically 
dismisses his bleak opening, which already seems 
out-of-place to the rest of the majorly sunny film.   
“Shazam!” is indeed a nice change from the 
usually grey and stoic DCEU atmosphere, and it does embrace a comfortable and jovial air 
that’s always a crowd-pleaser. Reminiscent of 
“Big, ” “Shazam!” has saccharine coming-of-age 
elements and teen naivete — even mimicking the ‘88 film’s nominal 88 piano keys scene — 
that other superhero films don’t normally have. 
However, it simultaneously feels like it wants to 
be a wacky, over-the-top “Superman” parody, not 
knowing how to pull it off. So, instead, the movie lingers on a safe, routine narrative route with 
fight encounters that batters in several rehashed, 
“self-aware” jokes. We’ve seen these formulaic 
comic tropes appear in almost every superhero 
blockbuster that attempts to be “funny” and “offbeat, ” and the schtick is starting to get old now. 
Although “Shazam!” is average in its superhero 
telling, it has a simplicity and sentimentality 
of finding strength within and surrendering 
yourself to those who want to unconditionally 
help. Y es, there are cracks in the narrative, such 
as the surface-leveled thematic depth, extremely 
broad humor, and disappointing villains. But, 
alas, it’s just another fun, punch-bad-guys-to-
win superhero story, one that we the audience 
can mindlessly munch popcorn to or watch 
attentively, gaining the same experience either 
way. 
— Ashley Chen
Senior Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW12                                                                         T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  1 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
Turnover played to a sold-out 
Observatory in North Park on April 10, serving a revivatory dose of dopamine 
to all in attendance who were caught in the mid-week slump. Supported by artists Razorbumps, Reptaliens, and Turnstile, the evening was an eclectic blend of serenading shoegaze, high-
octacne hardcore, and ethereal indie rock. While 
at times this blend was perhaps more off-putting than harmonious, the dynamics were challenging enough to wake your ass up.
The Texas disco-punk three-piece 
Razorbumps opened the show with a gloomy, raging sound reminiscent of Devo or B-52’s, if they were just really, really pissed off. Following them was the Portland outfit Reptaliens, donning 
white jumpsuits, pixie girl wigs, and creeper 
platform shoes. The main attraction of their set was a crew member who would come on stage wearing different costumes, each more bizarre than the last. 
The first of these was a towering cyclops 
creature with a single eyeball for its head. The next was an “ American Psycho”-inspired character wearing a rain poncho over a full business suit and an Andy W arhol mask. This character then slowly and seductively removed each article of clothing in the middle of the stage until he 
revealed his boxers, which were adorned with 
several portraits of George Castanza. The final creature was a gilly-suit-clad alien who crawled in the bridge position across the stage. 
Reptaliens closed their set, remarking, 
“Turnstile is up next, and they’re going to f--- you up. ” And they did just that.
Opening with “Real Thing, ” the leading 
track off their latest album “Time & Space, ” the 
East Coast hardcore ensemble blasted onto the 
stage, grabbing the whole room by the neck and throttling it violently. The five-piece group blazed through a ten-song set in under forty minutes, 
not once letting the energy in the room fizzle 
out. If you blinked, each member of the band would be in a different part of the stage, flailing mid-air in outbursts of aggressively youthful and energetic euphoria.
For a band that got its start playing shows that 
allowed crowds to rush the stage, Turnstile has adapted their persona notably well to barricaded venues. Even those concertgoers who stood perfectly still during the set ended up drenched in sweat from the surrounding chaos of the crowd. 
Finally, Turnover meandered to the stage, 
which was decorated like a claymation short from Mr. Rogers Neighborhood if the show’s creators took a few tabs of acid before filming. At one point, a cheerful green-skinned mailman 
trotted across the stage, waving at the crowd and 
tossing envelopes carelessly in all directions. If he was trying to toss promotional material into the crowd, he missed.
Opening with “New Scream” and “Dizzy 
on the Comedown” from their previous record “Peripheral Vision, ” the crowd’s reception for Turnover was audibly positive. They quickly followed with “Sunshine Type” from their latest 
release, “Good Nature, ” which peaked at No. 9 on 
Billboard’s Top Rock Albums in 2017. 
Where the co-headliner was notable for 
their heavier grooves and over-the-top energy, Turnover was much more reserved in both 
stage presence and musicality. Moody, reflective 
lyrics over twinkling guitars are a staple in the band’s sound, which was delivered without disappointment. The juxtaposition of energy dynamics between bands, however, may have played to Turnover’s disadvantage. 
Mostly everyone in the room was still vibrating 
with enthusiasm from Turnstile’s electrifying set, and this energy found no appropriate outlet with Turnover’s dreamy showcase. The transition has a comparable effect to doing massive amounts of 
coke and then trying to sit through church. It’s 
challenging to let the shimmering vibes sink in with your adrenaline still pumping. 
Each band brought something distinct to 
the show, but the order in which they brought 
those distinctions was jarring. While the grab-
bag mix of genres and styles is appreciated when compared to the otherwise innocuously similar lineups that most artists have toured with, the 
order of the sets may have been better digested 
in a different arrangement. Overall, the evening was an engagingly ambitious showcase of variety within the alternative music scene, as well as an enjoyable night out.
—  Tyler  faurot
Staff WriterTurnover brings twinkle and atmosphere to a punk rock promenade.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  The Observatory North Park
Concert Date   April 10, 2019TurnoverPHOTO COURTESY OF TYLER FAUROT
CBCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
SUSAN NARUCKI, SOPRANOWEDNESDAY, APRIL 17
Conrad Prebys Concert Concert Hall • 7pmTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 15 - APR 212019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
ART AND SOUL - THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each week. 
Materials provided, space is limited.. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
12:30pm
ILEAD WEEK 3- ROOSEVELT 
COLLEGE ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST/RED SHOE 
ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER 
WEST
Who are you? A simple question with a 
complicated answer. Through this workshop, we will explore our own identities and how they may have had an impact on who we are, how we think, and how we lead. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu.
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
- SPRING QUARTER -ERC 
LCTs is a weekly event that creates a casual, fun 
environment for people to learn/practice a new 
language by conversing with a host. Different 
languages are offered on different dates of the week. The schedule for LCTs for Spring Quarter is: Mondays (7-8PM, Asante Classrooms): Korean, Mandarin, Portuguese, Spanish . Tuesday (6-7PM, Great Hall): ASL, Arabic, Armenian, Cantonese, 
English, Farsi, French, Hindi, Irish, Japanese, 
Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish . Please 
RSVP at http://tinyurl.com/LCT-SP19 before coming to your desired section. LCTs is a event that's open to EVERYONE. Take a break from studying and join us for some language fun. Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu
11am
CAREER FAIR PREP FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS-HORIZON ROOM
Calling all international students! Are you 
trying to find an internship at the Spring Career Fair but you don't know how to prepare? Come out to Career Fair Prep for International Students and we will walk you through the process, step-by-step.  This workshop will be presented by Grace Qian, a UCSD alumni who has been teaching professionalism and career fair prep for two years. She will help you learn all aspects of preparedness, from the first handshake to aceing the interview. Contact: warrenoutreach@ucsd.edu. Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/660462121079102/
6pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE 
Drop-in every Wednesday from 12:00-1:00pm and every Thursday from 5:00-6:00pm and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad! R&R Squad is also at Geisel, every Monday from 6:00-7:00pm. Contact: zone@ucsd.eduTUE4.16
THU4.18MON4.15
ALL WEEK! OUT AND PROUD 
SERIES - ACROSS UCSD MAIN 
CAMPUS
The Out and Proud Series presents the largest 
opportunity for community visibility on the UC 
San Diego campus. It is a time for reflection on 
the achievements of LGBTQIA+ identified 
students, staff, faculty, and our allies. It is also 
a time for public awareness and discussion of 
current LGBTQIA+ issues on the state and 
national levels.While historically this celebration 
has been called Out and Proud Week, 
experiences of Pride movements and narratives 
of coming out need critical examination. We 
appreciatively challenge what being Out and 
Proud means and honor the diversity within our 
community. This year our Out and Proud Series 
will take place April 8-26th, 2019. Our theme is 
#WontBeErased. Learn basic mindful 
movements to reduce stress and improve mood. 
Facilitated by Dr. Diana Quach ( 858) 534-7710. 
Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu (858)534-3755
10am
SUMMER STORAGE AND OFF 
CAMPUS HOUSING WORKSHOP 
-MARSHALL COLLEGE ROOM 
Are you going to move off campus next year? 
Need a pkace to store your stuff over the 
summer? Come out to the Summer Storage and 
Off Campus Housing Workshop hosted by 
Outreach and lean about the Dos and Don'ts of 
leasing from an attorney. Also, get our special 
summer storage discount!! Contact: 
tmcoutreach@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/39935399421
1793/
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
THE WOMEN’S CENTER SMALL 
GROUPS ROOM 
Join us for conversation & Connection. This 
Community forum addresses relationships, 
sexual health community building and more. 
Weeks 2-10 Spring Quarter. Contact: 
Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858534940812pm
CHANGEMAKER WEEK PLANNING 
COMMITTEE MEETING -TEACHING 
+ LEARNING COMMONS 
Help drive positive change locally and worldwide 
by joining the Changemaker Week Planning Committee! We will be holding a meeting on Friday, April 19th at 12 pm in the Teaching + Learning Commons. Join us to learn more about this CCR validated opportunity! RSVP Here: http://tinyurl.com/CMPlanningCommittee. Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu. Website: http://tinyurl.com/CMPlanningCommitteeFRI4.19
7am
2019 CACCCHE & UC SAN DIEGO 
STUDENT -SCHOLAR CONFERENCE 11am
SPRING EGGSTRAVAGANZA AT 
BIRCH AQUARIUM-BIRCH 
AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS 
Scuba Bunny is bounding into the aquarium 
to help us celebrate the arrival of spring and the changes it brings during Eggstravaganza! Explore animal eggs, create a shark egg craft, and participate in an underwater egg hunt no basket needed. Don't miss extra activities, encounters, and special appearances by Scuba Bunny at Eggstravaganza-themed dive shows. Included with aquarium admission. Contact: basmarketing@ucsd.edu 8585343474. Website: https://aquarium.ucsd.edu/experiences/events/eggstravaganza
1pm
YOGA INVERSIONS & ARM 
BALANCES -RIMAC ACTIVITY 
ROOM 3SAT4.20WED4.17
11:30am
MEDITATION SERIES WITH VOU ATHENS - RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 
3 
Foundations of Meditation: Stress Reduction 
through Mindfulness and Meditation In this 4-part series, experience deep relaxation and a 
calming of the mind. Come away with the 
experience to apply specific mindfulness and 
meditation techniques to everyday life to reduce stress, improve well-being and center the mind. Science and philosophy of practice included. All levels welcome.Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu.
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 3-ROOSEVELT 
COLLEGE ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST/RED SHOE ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST 
Who are you? A simple question with a 
complicated answer. Through this workshop, we will explore our own identities and how they may have had an impact on who we are, how we think, and how we lead. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu. 
3pm
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY: UCSD & 
BEYOND-GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE 
Climate change is a global issue that relies on 
individual contributions to play a significant role in providing various solutions. Inter-Sustainability Council and International House will present a panel of five campus sustainability experts addressing how UC San Diego plans to meet its sustainability goals and play its part in contributing to a greener world Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu. Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/696442750758317/
5pm
R&R SQUAD- THE ZONE 
Drop-in every Wednesday from 12:00-1:00pm and every Thursday from 5:00-6:00pm and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad! R&R Squad is also at Geisel, every Monday from 6:00-7:00pm. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDS@7 SUSAN NARUCKI, 
SOPRANO- CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT CONCERT HALL
With a passion for discovery, wide-ranging 
interests and exceptional musicianship, soprano Susan Narucki has enjoyed extraordinary collaborations, earning special recognition as a champion of the music of our time. In a career that spans over twenty years, she has presented over one hundred world premieres in opera, concert and recording. General Admission: $15.50. UCSD Faculty, Staff, Alumni: $10.50. Student Rush: Free with ID. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu. Website: http://musicweb.ucsd.edu/concerts/cms_index.php?now=1&query_event_code=20190417-WEDS7Narucki
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
FUN THINGS TO DO!CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Electricity, slangily
6. ___ nova (Brazilian dance)11. With it, ‘40s-style
14. They’re given in court
15. Sacrificial spot
16. Long-term investment17. ‘’Beddy-bye’’19. Shoe type
20. Imply
21. Have regrets
22. Sault ___ Marie23. Talisman26. Roman forum participant
28. ‘’Sis boom bah’’ preceders
29. Flee hastily
32. Word with whip or tongue33. Architectural molding34. A party to
36. Remain stationary at sea
39. Bird beak
40. Dozes off42. One way to follow a pattern43. Bird warble45. Culinary directive46. ‘’The one that got away, ’’ e.g.47. Departs49. New Haven collegian50. A lot of land?51. Part of New York54. Writing with this could be permanent56. Blood brother, e.g.57. Org. whose members are packing58. Lost no time, in a way59. Vein glory?60. Get a bit of shut-eye65. Born, on the society pages66. Of some benefit67. Pianist and fiddler68. Psychic power, briefly69. O’Neal of ‘’Paper Moon’’70. Smile derisivelyDOWN
1. Alcott’s ‘’___ Boys’’2. Union in Detroit, initially3. Suffix with Israel
4. Woman’s shirtlike undergarment
5. Adlai’s 1956 partner
6. Livestock abode7. Matador’s cheer8. People people?
9. An Adams
10. Weaponry caches
11. Beds down12. Wordsworth’s muse13. Bag choice
18. Showy flower
23. Kind of runner
24. Not merely ready25. Chandler’s first novel27. ‘’Unaccustomed ___ am ... ’’
30. Echidna’s snacks
31. Three-card ___
35. Get but good37. ___ Haute38. Proprietor40. Wholesome41. Dresses with care44. Realtor’s offering46. Railroad workers48. Social levels51. Barely ahead in volleyball, maybe52. Uses a small kitchen knife53. Weird Al Yankovic parody55. Forever and ever58. Genesis son61. Actor Gulager62. Palindrome center63. Pulitzer dramatist Akins64. Soviet inits.CARS
2019 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 
in San Diego, CA. 2019 Chevrolet Silverado 1500, 4D Crew Cab, Recent Arrival! $5,500 off MSRP! Shadow Gray Metallic RST four wheel-drive EcoTec3 5.3L V8 eight Gear Automatic 16/22 City/Highway MPGAs your pre -
mier New car dealer in San Diego County ... ucsdguardian.org/classi-fieds for more information
2019 Ford F-150 in San Diego, CA. 
2019 Ford F-150, SuperCrew, You win!!! 1 of the best things about this Vehicle is something you can’t see, but you’ll be thankful for it every time you pull up to the pump* New In Stock*** Hold on to your seats!!! Ford has done it again!!! They have built some vigorous vehicles and this vig-orous Vehicle is no exception… ucs-dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2019 Chevrolet Colorado Work Truck 
in San Diego, CA. 2019 Chevrolet Colorado, 4D Extended Cab, Recent Arrival! Summit White Work Truck RWD V6 eight Gear Automatic 18/25 City/Highway MPGAs your premier New car dealer in San Diego County, Courtesy Chevrolet has a large inven -
tory of New cars, trucks, and SUVs … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
2015 Diamondback Podium Equipe SRAM Red Team Color - 56cm Carbon in La Jolla, CA. 2015 Diamondback Podium Equipe with 2016 SRAM Red 22 (the most lightweight group -
set in the world!) Full 2015 SRAM Red carbon groupset (MSRP $1290) with Ultegra cassette ($110) … ucs-dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
E-bike in San Diego, CA. Brand new 
e-bike,just out of box yesterday, bought 2,too tall for wife to ride,re-ordered 20” model.taking loss on Ecotrec 26” ,fat tire beach model,500w lithium battery, unbelievable power,shimano gearing,black,call 
Jim … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2019 Yeti Sb100 Medium in San 
Diego, CA. Up for sale is my slightly used 2019 Yeti SB100 in a Medium frame. Bike has been ridden for under 200 mis. This is the C model frame and its the GX build. Click on link below to see all the stock specs. Upgrades include: Specialized Roval Traverse … ucsdguardian.org/classi-fieds for more information
HOUSING
17758 Bellechase Cir, $1750 - Rancho Bernardo, Rare single level Emerald Model Luxury Home with a gorgeous view on top of the hill! Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, 2 fireplaces, 2 car garage! Beautifully landscaped backyard with soothing waterfall, Koi 
Pond and multiple seating areas...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
4057 Marlborough Ave, $1325 - 1 
BR w Tons of Space - Amazing Deal - Available This Weekend! - Clean lines, freshly-painted walls, and easy-maintenance tile flooring give this SPACIOUS one-bedroom apartment lots of possibilities...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
4458 Alabama St, $1645 - Remodeled 
1 Bed/1 Bath North Park Apt - New Kitchen + Bath - Fully renovated, 1 bed/1 bath corner apartment home in North Park near trendy shopping and restaurants and only a few blocks to Sprouts Farmers Market...ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2018
Triton Score Report
Track and Field dominated at the Triton 
Invitational on Saturday, April 13 at Triton Track and Field Stadium, with the men’s 4x400 relay team finishing second in the NCAA and setting the second-fastest time in UCSD history. The men’s and women’s teams both finished first amongst non-Divi-sion I competitors.Track and Field
Women’s Tennis won all three of their Week 
2 matchups, taking down PLNU 4–0 on the road on Monday, April 8, 4–2 against Con-cordia University Irvine on Wednesday, April 10, and California State University, Los An-geles 4–2 on Saturday, April 13. The CSU-LA win marked the team’s eighth-straight and was especially important thanks to it being on Senior Day.Women’s Tennis
Softball
Softball dropped both games of their 
doubleheader against APU on April 10 at 
UCSD, losing the first game 2–1 and the 
second game 8–2. The team hasn’t won 
since April 5, thanks to a combination of 
close losses and cancellations, but still are 
19–6 in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, good for first place.
Women’s Water Polo won two of their 3 
matchups in Week 2, taking down Califor-nia State University, Sonoma on the road 20–7 on April 7 and Pomona-Pitzer College 12–4 at UCSD on Saturday, April 13. The team’s last matchup will come on Satur -
day, April 20 when the Tritons take on San Diego State University in the Harper Cup rivalry game at SDSU.Women’s Water PoloMen’s Tennis
Men’s Tennis took on two schools during 
Week 2, taking down Point Loma Naza-rene University 6–1 on Tuesday, April 9 at home and falling to Azusa Pacific Universi-ty 4–3 on the road. The PLNU win marked another Senior Day victory for UC San Di-
ego and a season sweep of the Sea Lions. 
APU is one of the top teams in Division II 
and one of just a few 20-win teams, and 
UCSD took the team all the way down to 
the wire.
COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSCOURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSIn this series of articles, 
all of the UCSD teams that competed over the last week will be covered, with top moments, players and 
scores being reported.by Jack Dorfman
Sports EditorLast Saturday, April 6, the 
Tritons traveled up to Turlock to 
face California State University, Stanislaus in a four-game series. 
Despite a losing record (12–14), 
Stanislaus took both games in a doubleheader on Sunday which pushed UC San Diego back to having a small half-game lead in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, as the Tritons are now sitting on an 18–7 record in CCAA, and a 23–7 record overall.  
The Tritons kicked o ff the series 
with success defeating the Warriors 5–1. UCSD’s pitchers continued their dominance as junior Ted Stuka (5 innings pitched, 3 hits, 1 run), 
and junior Luke Mattson (4 innings, 
2 hits, 0 runs), threw it right by Stanislaus bats all game long. Leado ff 
man and sophomore shortstop Shay 
Whitcomb got things going for the 
Tritons in the first inning with a 
double and stayed hot throughout boasting a 3–6 day at the plate. Freshman designated hitter Michael 
Furhman and senior right fielder RJ 
Prince also contributed with 2 hits 
apiece and accounting for 3 of the team’s 5 runs. With the win, Stuka 
moves to 5-1 on the year and now 
has the lowest ERA in the CCAA (with a minimum of 36 innings pitched).  
After a strong showing in game 
one, the Tritons dropped two games back-to-back in the doubleheader on Sunday 4–2 and 7–3 (7 innings). In the first Sunday game, the Tritons 
had their work cut out for them offensively as they found themselves 
behind, 3–1, in the 3rd inning. Despite senior starting pitcher Preston Mott carrying the load on 
the mound (6 innings, 1 run, 12 
strikeouts), the o ffense couldn’t put together enough runs to climb back into the game, and ultimately lost 4–2. Warriors’ third baseman Grant Victor helped lead his team 
to victory with a 2-run homer that 
proved to be the di fference. 
In the second Sunday game, 
slated for 7 innings, both teams 
got off to slow starts until the third 
inning, when Stanislaus State put 
up 7 runs, on 5 hits and an error, off  
sophomore pitcher Noah Conlon. 
With just 4 innings le ft in the game 
to surmount this disadvantage, the Tritons eventually lost although 
they put together a strong final 
inning, scoring 3 runs in the 7th 
inning thanks to a 2 RBI pinch-hit single from senior out fielder Chris 
Schasteen. Stanislaus State’s starting pitcher nearly lasted the entire game, pitching 6.2 innings while only giving up two runs in his last inning of work. 
With one game le ft in the series, 
on Monday, April 8 the Tritons started undefeated junior Brandon Weed, to the mound to try to split the 
series. A fter some fireworks in the 
previous game, this one came down 
to the wire with UCSD winning 4–3. The Tritons took control of the game in the 4th inning a fter singles from 
Furhman and redshirt sophomore Blake Baumgartner kicked o ff the 
inning and resulted in 2 runs, and a 2-1 lead. 
In the next two innings, the 
Tritons would add on to their lead with quality at-bats from Whitcomb and redshirt sophomore catcher Aaron Kim, and an error on 
Stanislaus State, which would make 
the score 4–2 heading into the 7th inning. Despite tacking on a run in the 8th inning, the Warriors were 
unable to overcome the de ficit and 
in the end lost by a score of 4–3, 
with senior UCSD reliever Kyle Lucke picking up a 3-inning save, his 4th of the year. Whitcomb and Baumgartner put together solid days at the plate, both managing two hits which push their batting averages to .322 and .333, respectively, on the 
season.
Over the course of the next 
month, No. 10 UC San Diego will have to prove their road dominance 
as they will not have any more regular season game at Triton Ballpark.
With the postseason just around 
the corner, the Tritons will look to increase their CCAA lead without the comforts of Triton Ballpark, as they play 8 of their final 12 games 
on the road.
BY Praveen Nair
Contributing Writer16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 15, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Cal State LA
at San Diego Statevs Irvina at University of Hawaiiat CSU San MarcosUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
W Water Polo
M Volleyball
Softball6PM1PM8PM1PM4/184/204/184/19
No. 10 UC San Diego Splits Series with Stanislaus State
Men’s Volleyball Drops Both Matches of CSUN Home-and-HomeCOURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSUC San Diego men’s volleyball 
closed out the regular season with a 
3–1 loss to California State University, Northridge on Saturday, April 13, 25–23, 15–25, 16–25, 19–25. Despite winning their first set in just over a month, the Tritons couldn’t stop the Matadors from dealing them their sixth consecutive loss, leaving them 7–19 on the season and still searching for their first conference win in two seasons in the Big West Conference.
UCSD was able to come out on 
top of the narrowly contested first set; sophomore outside hitter Wyatt Harrison recorded a kill to bring up set point, then drilled an ace past CSU N to win the Tritons a set for the first time since March 12. 
But the momentum didn’t last, 
as UCSD had an abysmal offensive showing in the second set, recording five errors against just six kills. CSUN, meanwhile, went on a 6–1 run in the middle of the set and never looked back. It was much of the same story in the second to last set, as the Matadors again pulled away from UCSD mid-set to regain the lead.
The Tritons never led in the final 
set. Despite two consecutive late kills 
from UCSD redshirt junior outside 
hitter Xander Jimenez on assists from junior setter Connor Walbrecht, the Matadors were never in danger, and the match ended after a block by CSUN’s Paul Rzepniewski and Ksawery Tomsia. For the second straight night, the Matadors’ Dimitar Kalchev had the Tritons’ number, leading both teams with 17 kills.
In the last home match of the 
season the night before, UCSD came up short 23–25, 26–28, 23–25 against the same CSUN team. Despite keeping the match close for its entirety, the Tritons couldn’t put together enough momentum to take a set from the Matadors in front of their home crowd at RIMAC Arena.
UCSD trailed for nearly every 
second of the first set despite keeping it close. Although the Tritons fended off three straight set points, CSUN’s early lead proved too much to overcome, as the Matadors took the first set 25–23.
The second set started out quite 
differently for the Tritons, who leapt out of the break with a 12–6 run to start the set. Among the highlights was a diving save by Jimenez, honored before the match as the lone graduating senior, as he tracked back past the baseline to salvage the play for a Triton score. But the Matadors slowly chipped away, leveling the match at 24 apiece. UCSD took a 26–25 lead on a Jimenez kill to earn a set point, but three straight CSUN kills gave the Matadors the 28–26 victory.
The third set was similar to 
the first, as CSUN opened up a commanding lead that the Tritons couldn’t respond to. Despite a 5–0 run to pull within one late in the set, UCSD couldn’t complete the comeback, as the Matadors squeezed by yet again. While the Tritons put up a season-high 14.5 blocks to their opponents’ 7, the CSUN offense was just too much to handle, and the team couldn’t avoid a loss to yet another conference opponent. The team, despite big-time efforts during conference play, ended the regular season without a win against Big West opponents. 
The season continues in the Big 
West Conference Tournament in Hawaii and UCSD will come in as the sixth seed, the lowest in the tournament. The opening game comes on Thursday, April 18 against third-ranked University of California, Irvine at 8 p.m. PST . The Tritons have taken 3 of 9 sets from the Anteaters in their two matches this season, making this matchup one of the best chances for UCSD to pull off an upset and advance in the tournament. 
Pra veen Nair  Prnair@ucsd.edu BY Hayden Wellbeloved
Staff Writer
Ha yden Wellbeloved   hwellbell@ucsd.edu 