Dr. Kang Zhang, an acclaimed 
eye doctor at UC San Diego and the 
Chief of Ophthalmic Genetics at the 
Institute of Genetic Medicine, was recently suspended by the university following a routine Food and Drug 
Administration inspection which 
found Dr. Zhang to be practicing studies under “objectionable 
conditions. ” The FDA audit has previously gone unnoticed before an 
investigation by inewsource made the 
information public.
Before the incident, Dr. Zhang’s 
work included the removal of 
cataracts from infants and stem cell 
regeneration. Additionally, he has a 
lab named after him on campus at UCSD, and he had traveled across 
the country for speaking engagements 
as a leading expert in the field of ophthalmology.
In 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued Dr. Zhang a warning letter for practicing under 
“objectionable conditions. ” The letter 
cited that some of his test subjects did not meet specified eligibility requirements, there was a lack of 
details in his plan for implementing 
additional procedures and measures during his studies, and there was a 
failure to account for “the [disposal] 
of unused supplies of the study drug” Students and faculty members from a variety 
of university labor groups held a teach-in 
demonstration on May 1, which is also known 
as May Day, in front of Geisel Library in solidarity 
with ongoing labor battles. The teach-in was the 
first event organized by the UC San Diego Solidarity 
Coalition, a group formed last quarter which consists 
of faculty members, labor union representatives and students from various organizations. 
Since the nineteenth century, May 1 has 
been recognized by labor groups as May Day, in commemoration of the violent Haymarket Affair of 1886 in which about seven police and a dozen protestors were killed at a labor demonstration. Internationally, the day is celebrated with solidarity demonstrations and protests. Following the demonstration at UCSD, members from the Solidarity Coalition participated in the May Day march in downtown San Diego.
Chanting, “Who runs UC? We run UC” to a crowd 
of about a dozen students and faculty in front of Silent Tree, the demonstration brought up issues such as affordable housing and fair working conditions. Speakers from UC-AFT , AFSCME 3299, the UCSD student labor commission and UPTE-CW A 9119 took turns addressing the small crowd over a megaphone.
Collective Co-Chair Lecturer Allison Black of 
UC-AFT, the union representing librarians and lecturers at UCSD, was one of the first to address the 
crowd on the fight for affordable housing.
“ At UC, we spend well over a third of our income 
on housing, ” Black told the crowd. “It’s nowhere near affordable, not even close. ” 
The UC-AFT’s contract with the University of 
California is set to expire at the end of 2019, and the 
union is currently locked in an ongoing bargaining 
battle with the UC Office of the President. Some 
of the issues the union is hoping to negotiate for 
include a living wage, job stability, and long-term appointments, in particular for university lecturers.
Lecturers, unlike professors, are untenured and 
often are employed part-time. At UCSD, there are 189 lecturers on faculty and a little over 1,000 professors. 
Part-time instructors make up about 18 percent of the 
university’s teaching staff.
“On this campus, [lecturers] are more likely to be 
female and people of color, ” Black said. “In terms of average salaries, because most of us are hired to be part-time, the average salary is $19,000 yearly. That means over a third of our lecturers are not eligible for health insurance. Many of the people teaching your classes are not eligible for health insurance [and are] not earning a living wage. ”
Black also highlighted the importance of having 
fair conditions for campus lecturers, arguing that “teaching conditions are learning conditions. When lecturers thrive, students succeed. ”
Gladys Morrow from the executive board of 
AFSCME 3299, the largest union representing UC workers, argued that the UC Regents and the Office of the President had not been meeting their demands. The UCOP and AFSCME have been engaged in contract negotiations for about two years.
“We have been fighting with the UC [system] 
for a fair contract for two years, ” Morrow said. “The executives gave themselves another 3 percent raise, but say that [workers] make too much money. ”
Each speaker took the time to stress the necessity 
for solidarity in the ongoing labor disputes. 
Prajay Lolabattu of the United Students Against 
Sweatshops told the crowd, “The UC [system] is 
scared. There’s a reason cops keep showing up to our 
actions. All united, we would have the power to bring 
down the entire UC system. ”
Black and Morrow also implored the crowd to 
join the fight in their speeches, arguing that the issues affected not just laborers and faculty, but students as VOLUME 52, ISSUE 26  MONDA Y , MA Y 6, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Rally for Science 
Held for Third Year 
in Downtown San 
Diego Park
The demonstration included townhall 
style panels, speakers, and a Science Expo.
MEDICINE
UCSD Eye Doctor Suspended for Objectionable Conditions
La Jolla's Cli ffs Overlook the Beach  // Photo by Hope Ho ffman-LarsonThe annual San Diego Rally 
for Science was held on May 4 
at W aterfront Park to connect the 
San Diegan public to the scientific community. The rally included 
town hall-style panels on public 
health and vaccinations, climate 
change solutions, and citizen 
science, as well as a Science 
Expo composed of various local 
organizations that focus on science 
and politics. 
The March for Science was 
first held in April 2017 in cities 
around the world as a protest to 
US President Donald Trump. The 
respective march in San Diego 
garnered over 15,000 people 
to attend during their first year. However, that number has dropped 
precipitously since then, where 
the 2019 rally only had a couple 
hundred of attendees. 
The CEO of San Diego for 
Science, Robert Cooper, told the 
UCSD Guardian that the goal 
of the event was to help combat 
international problems like climate change and disease, by spreading awareness of current 
scientific achievements. According 
to Cooper, the event displayed how current research can benefit 
everyone’s daily lives, as well as 
how regular citizens can support 
science-based governmental policy. 
“Support for science should 
be a universal American value, ” Cooper said. “We want to change 
the culture so that science is more valued and that people would 
understand its importance and 
feel better connected to it. That sets the stage for policymakers to incorporate science more in their 
decision making because their 
constituents care. ”
Public health and immunization 
was the first panel of the Town Hall, where three doctors discussed the benefits and the growing public misunderstanding of vaccinations. 
The panelists explained how vaccinations had little to no risk for 
recipients and have exponentially greater advantages for the recipients and their communities. Dr. 
Richard Armenta from California 
State University, San Marcos elaborated on the misinformation 
of vaccinations. 
“People are more likely to latch 
onto information they are familiar with, whether that’s from social 
media, or things they’ve heard from community members, ” Dr. Armenta said on the panel. “If the 
general public doesn’t understand 
the science and we don’t have an 
open conversation about their 
hesitancy and other barriers like 
transportation, clinic [availability] By Tyler  Faurot   Senior Staff WriterACTIVISM
May Day Demonstration Held by Student and Faculty Labor PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Even stripping, an 
expression of female 
agency and powerful 
sexuality at its core, 
seemed dampened yet 
again by the male psyche."
TITLE  IX
 AVENGERS:   ENDGAME TITLE  IX  DIRECTOR  SPEAKS  OUT
No  Spoiler  ReviewOpinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"...we issued an interim 
Sexual Violence and 
Sexual Harassment 
Student Adjudication 
Framework that gives 
both complainants and 
respondents the right to an 
appeal with a hearing for 
any reason, in any case 
that results in suspension or 
dismissal."MONDAY
 H 66 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 63 L 59
TUESDAY
H 65 L 59
THURSDAY
H 63 L 59
LIME  BIKES......................2
AFTER...............................9
KIDS GLOVE...................12
W. POLO.........................15
SCORE REPORT............16SCIENCE
Suzanne Taylor
PAGE 4The suspension comes a fter a routine a 2017 lab inspection conducted by the Food and Drug Administration.
BY  Tanaya Sawant
Staff WriterBY  Andrew  Ha
Editorial AssistantSTIGMA AND
STRIPPING
Features, page 6
See DOCTOR,  page 2 See RALLY ,  page 3See MAY DAY ,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
TRICKY FOLD By Michi Sora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianLime, a transportation 
company, released survey data 
last week which found a decrease in car usage and an increase in scooter usage in the San Diego area. This positive data for the dockless transportation industry comes shortly after the San Diego City Council approved rules to regulate app-based scooter and bicycle rentals.
The survey, which was 
conducted over a period of 11 days in October 2018, found that 45 percent of the 1656 respondents indicated 
driving their cars less often on 
a daily basis with 22 percent of respondents stating that they used Lime specifically to get to work and school. 
The survey also found that 60 
percent of San Diego respondents are Hispanic, 25 percent of riders are 36 or above, and 16.5 percent of Lime users have previously or currently served in the military. This specific demographic information was published in a Lime press release.
Lime also reported that 
within the first five months of its business, San Diegans took 1 million rides on Lime bikes and scooters, with a one-year report showing that San Diego had more users than any other major city.
On the UC San Diego campus, 
dockless scooters and bicycles started appearing in December 2017 after the university partnered with Spin, an app-based bicycle rental company, to bring 300 dockless bicycles to campus. Since then, dockless bicycles and scooters from other companies have also appeared around campus.
These modes of 
transportation are also regularly used by commuter students as an alternative to driving to campus or taking the bus. Sophomore York Zhang, is one such commuter at UCSD who 
has replaced bus transportation 
with a dockless scooter to travel back home. 
“When I want to relax, I will 
find one [scooter] to go back from UCSD, ” York said. “I like to ride it at night when there’s only 
me riding on the bicycle lane. I 
enjoy the feeling of wind blasting on my face and running fast. ”
According to York, there are 
also some drawbacks to dockless scooters, including the cost to rent a scooter and the rare amount of scooters available at night.
Similarly, junior commuter 
and Lime employee Erik Mumm explained that scooters have become more prevalent in his everyday life.
“I use the scooters almost 
every day, ” Mumm told the UCSD Guardian. “I live in Pacific Beach and can often rely solely on the scooters for running errands locally. ”
Mumm also said that he 
chooses to ride a scooter on campus to avoid long walks that take more than five minutes, noting that scooters serve as a supplement to his car and bus trips. 
“I usually use the scooter as a 
means to get to the bus, ” Mumm said. “I use [a] scooter to bridge 
the first/last mile gap from my 
house to the nearest bus stop. ” 
However, not everyone in San 
Diego holds a positive image of dockless modes of transportation. The San Diego City Council passed new regulations for the 
dockless transportation industry 
due to complaints from residents throughout the city. Additionally, an increase in accidents involving scooter riders throughout the area has raised discussions on implementing speed limits and age restrictions. 
Lime believes this newly 
released data could help the city formulate regulations on scooters. 
In the same press release, 
Lime’s San Diego general manager Jonah Peake said: “It is our hope that we can use our data to assist the City of San Diego as it makes infrastructure decisions that can advance micro-mobility and improve congestion and air quality for drivers, riders, and pedestrians alike. ”
Lime originally partnered 
with the city of San Diego in February 2018, making San Diego one of the first cities worldwide to offer both dockless bicycles and scooters. However, no explicit partnership has been made between the company and 
UCSD.
BY  Zhuoying  Lin
Contributing WriterSAN DIEGO
Lime Release finds Decrease in San Diego Car Usage; Increase in Dockless Transportation
The survey data release comes after regulations on the industry were passed by the San Diego city council in mid April.
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
That's what good pussy is.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Editor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani Sharkar
ZhuoyinG  Lin  zhl509@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Debate ensued on which methods to climate change are most effective, citing both individual and policy appraoches as viable
▶ RALLY , from page 1
or access to education, then we 
aren’t going to be effectively 
treating and caring for different 
communities and giving them the opportunity to protect their own 
health. ” 
The following panel on climate 
change solutions elaborated on possible ways in which individuals 
and the nation can combat the 
issue. The speakers brought up how 
renewable energy and its plethora of sources — nuclear, wind, solar, or hydroelectric — must be discussed 
in terms of safety, sustainability, 
and effectiveness. 
There was also debate between 
the effectiveness of actions by individuals in their daily lives 
as compared with policy action. 
Some of the panelists, like Dr. Francesca Turco from Columbia University, DIII-D National Fusion 
Facility, believes that enacting small changes, like becoming vegan, 
does help the environment, but 
only amounts to a tiny change. Dr. 
Ryan Vaughan, a board-member of Surfrider San Diego, concurs and 
believes that policy action is better. 
“Standing out in front of a 
headquarter and shouting is probably not your best play, ” 
Dr. Vaughan said on the panel. 
“Getting policies in place that 
force companies to deal with the consequences of their actions is very well played. ”
He adds that there needs to be 
more transparency regarding how companies use their money. One 
suggestion Dr. V aughan proposes 
is to read into Michael Bloomberg’s 
Task Force for Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure. 
“Things like the TCFD wants to 
make major companies, especially 
financial institutions, disclose the climate risks they [cause] based 
on their portfolio and where 
they put their investments, ” Dr. 
Vaughan continued.  “We need to drive companies to [assume 
responsibility] on what they’re 
doing. ”
In addition to the Town Hall 
panels, the rally had various 
organizations as a part of the Science 
Expo. Groups like Fleet Science, 
500 Women for Science, the Salk Institute and Girl Next Door Honey showed how regular citizens can be 
a part of the scientific process. 
“We want to let people know 
that science is approachable, ” Director of Education Outreach at 
the Salk Institute Dona Mapston 
said. “Our goal with education 
outreach is that we want to present science as not this mystery box, but that it’s something everybody can 
appreciate and that it’s important in everybody's everyday lives. It is 
critical that everyone is involved in 
understanding the science that is in 
the world around them. ”
Other organizations took a more 
political approach to advocate for 
sound science in politics. Groups 
like Represent Us built their 
platform on the premise that money 
in politics has a negative impact on 
many aspects of American society. 
Their representative Amy Tobia believes that money in politics is in part causal to the politicization 
of science. 
“One of the biggest issues 
[money in politics] is having is on the scientific community, ” Tobia 
said. “When people politicize 
scientific research, then they can’t 
move us forward as a country. We’re here today to bring awareness for our work in getting money out 
of politics as well as to support the [Rally] for Science. We believe that 
the work they’re doing in advocacy 
is great. ”
 The event marks the third year 
that San Diego for Science has 
hosted the Rally for Science. The 
event has become a platform to 
advocate for research-based science 
and to connect regular citizens to 
the scientific community. Cooper 
hopes that the event will foster 
greater consideration for science in the public as well as the political sphere.   
No UC San Diego department 
or organization was present as part of the Expo. However, UCSD 
professor Scott Klemmer was 
a speaker on the citizen science 
panel. 
Andrew  Ha  ah1a@ucsd.eduin his study logs.
Dr. Zhang’s lab did not respond 
to emails from the UCSD Guardian 
regarding the incident. However, 
Scott LaFee, the Director of Media 
Relations at UC San Diego Health, 
issued a media statement stating that Dr. Zhang was “suspended from 
serving as a principal investigator on 
any clinical protocols. ” 
Dr. Spencer Hey, a faculty member 
at the Harvard Center for Bioethics 
who has published many articles on 
ethics in the medical field, has recently spoken out on Dr. Zhang’s case.
“What I found troublesome was 
that the FDA report mentioned 
asking Zhang and his team if they 
were aware of the requirements, and 
they seemed to not know, ” Dr. Hey told the Guardian.
Dr. Hey also noted a bigger 
issue about the lack of oversight that universities have in medicinal 
research. 
“I think that the university bears 
the responsibility to some extent for overseeing activities that are going 
on at their institution, ” Dr. Hey said. 
“There are no adequate checks. Some 
necessary steps that universities need 
to take [are] to have more regular lab 
checks and regular audits. ” 
Dr. Hey mentioned that it is 
important to preserve trust and 
research interest, which he proposes addressing by having ethics 
officers working alongside both 
the researchers in the lab as well 
as the ethics investigators from the beginning of the study. 
Dr. Hey’s comment brought light 
to the fact that ethical violations are common during studies due to the 
complexity of research. 
“The ways in which information 
isn’t recorded properly is pretty common, ” Dr. Hey said. “I don’t 
think it is because people have bad 
intentions. Research is hard and 
complicated and if there isn’t a really 
good positive culture of rigor and 
consistent oversight, then it is easy for 
things to slide. ” 
UCSD has safeguards and 
programs in place to ensure that ethical research values are upheld. 
According to its website, the UC 
San Diego Research Ethics Program 
“serves as a resource for the campus community to identify and address ethical challenges intrinsic to the 
conduct of science, engineering, 
and other academic scholarship. ” 
It is currently unknown why these 
safeguards did not prevent the 
unethical practices in Dr. Zhang’s lab.
Dr. Michael Kalichman, the 
founder of the program, stated 
that “From an overall perspective, 
by supporting the Research Ethics 
Program, UC San Diego is recognized 
internationally as a leader in providing 
diverse activities and approaches to raise institutional awareness of the ethical challenges in research. ” Future strike scheduled
▶ MAY DAY , from page 1
well.
Azriel Almera of the UCSD Labor 
Commission expressed to the UCSD 
Guardian that she felt the university 
demonstrations were a success.
“It went really well, ” Almera said. 
“We had amazing speakers and a 
good crowd that grew as the teach-in 
continued. We got a lot of students interested about how they can help 
with the labor union struggles. ”
AFSCME 3299 is set to strike 
against the UC system’s labor 
practices again on Thursday, May 
16, which will be the union’s fourth 
protest in a year. 
Tyler  Faurot  tfaurot@ucsd.eduComplex nature of  research may result in frequent ethcial violations, Dr . Hey suggests
▶ DOCTOR , from page 1
Tanaya Sawant  tsawant@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONAdriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
Nationwide, higher education institutions are navigating a period 
of uncertainty around the laws that govern our response to sexual harassment, which includes sexual violence. Understandably, 
the UC community is concerned. As UC’s Systemwide Title IX Director, I want to allay any confusion or fear.  I write to explain how some recent developments affect UC, including proposed federal regulations and California case law, and how we are responding. I also want to underscore UC’s unwavering commitment to a fair resolution process that treats parties with respect and compassion, and results in just outcomes. 
The U.S. Department of Education proposed new Title IX rules last 
November that would dictate how schools respond to sexual harassment complaints. UC has taken a strong stance against parts of the rules. We do not yet know when the Department will issue them, or what they will ultimately require. Still, their very prospect leaves many worried.  As an attorney who dedicated more than a decade to the Department’s Office for Civil Rights, I am troubled too. Please know that when the Department eventually issues the rules, UC will respond thoughtfully, with the security and well-being of our students and the broader community as our highest priority. 
Developments at the state level 
are more pressing. In January, an appellate court ruled that California colleges and universities must hold hearings to resolve sexual misconduct cases where the respondent is a student, sanctions are potentially severe, and credibility is a central issue. UC had to take immediate steps to comply, and did so with the goal of protecting both parties and the integrity of the process.  Specifically, we issued an interim Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment Student Adjudication Framework that gives both complainants and respondents the right to an appeal with a hearing for any reason, in any case that results in suspension or dismissal. 
Importantly, the court ruling does not require cross-examination by 
parties’ representatives—a provision in the Department of Education’s proposed Title IX rules that is particularly troubling.  In UC’s appeal hearings, a neutral person poses questions, and will exclude questions deemed harassing, irrelevant or repetitive.  Additionally, parties may be visually or physically separated from each other and have support persons present, to make the experience less intimidating. The courts have signified these protections are acceptable, and we will continue to provide them.  To be clear, we have no intention of adopting those aspects of the proposed Title IX rules that we believe would be harmful, unless and until we are absolutely legally required to do so.  
While the interim policy is in place, a workgroup with diverse, 
systemwide representation has been helping to develop a long-term approach to hearings that is both legally compliant and true to our values.  The university also will ensure that our informal resolution process is as robust and meaningful as possible for those who prefer this alternative to a hearing.
I want to assure you that the Title IX and Student Conduct professionals 
on your campus care deeply and are committed to getting the student adjudication process right.  Additionally, your campus’s CARE office is 
dedicated to supporting individuals who have experienced sexual misconduct, and the Respondent Services office is equally committed to assisting respondents going through the Title IX process.  I encourage you to draw on these resources to understand the recent interim policy changes and how they might affect you.
Combatting sexual harassment 
and fostering a culture of respect and accountability require an unshakable 
commitment, particularly in the face of change and uncertainty. UC has made tremendous headway the past few years, and we will not allow obstacles to halt our trajectory. A fair process is critical—yet of little value unless members of our community harmed by sexual misconduct continue to come forward. UC must hold the values of fairness and humanity equally close as we confront these issues.  In this challenging time, our commitment to this work and to the UC community is steadfast and as strong as ever.
Suzanne Taylor is the Systemwide Title IX Director for the University of 
California Office of the PresidentLetter to the Editor: UC Aims to Ensure Integrity 
of  Title IX Process in Face of  Legal Developments 
By Suzanne  Taylor     Title ix Director
“...we issued an interim Sexual Violence and 
Sexual Harassment Student Adjudication 
Framework that gives both complainants 
and respondents the right to an appeal with 
a hearing for any reason, in any case that 
results in suspension or dismissal.”
opinion  editor   opinion@ucsdguardian.org
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WE WONT FINISH IN TIME   
By System 32
compelled 
by one of our 
Opinions? 
respond with 
a Letter to the 
Editor!
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
should support them in their choice. 
Leaning against a porch post with the neon light from the “Theater 
Nude” sign reflected in her eyes, Jewels 
told me how going out is expensive 
and has all too often led to unwelcome 
strangers’ hands grabbing at her. So 
Jewels took back control, making money 
while performing high above others on 
stage instead of getting groped without 
permission in a club. At Les Girls, she’s 
finally in charge, and for the customers 
there is a “don’t touch, only look” policy. 
I think that every college-aged girl in 
San Diego should visit a strip club, as 
it demonstrates human intimacy and gender power dynamics much more clearly in a safer environment than the gropes and grabs of your 
local campus or frat party.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
Strip clubs — an experience I have always wanted. I remember how 
the freshmen escapades of my male friends were exclusive. They 
were never willing to let me tag along across the border to Tijuana 
locales like the strip club, Hong Kong. As a photographer captivated by exploring harshly gendered areas, I recently set out to find a strip club in 
San Diego willing to work with me on a long-term photo project. After 
years of denials and delays, my first shoot for the project would also be my 
first time stepping foot into a club. 
I was meeting with Jewels for the first time, a warm and welcoming 
woman who works as a stripper at Les Girls in the Midway district. Jewels 
spoke about how the club is not only one of the oldest in the county, but 
also one of the few that is female-owned and operated. I learned a lot about 
the business of stripping — discovering that many clubs have hundreds of 
girls on staff and charge them a flat rate to perform every night, keeping 
a portion of their tips in return for the privilege to perform. However, Les 
Girls, being much more employee-friendly, pays each performer a base of 
$40 per night, has a live female DJ instead of the Spotify playlists running 
other clubs, and gives the strippers agency over the song choices. Strippers 
may have a stage, but they can’t always express their voices. 
Les Girls chips away at these confines. The rapport between the 
performers in the dressing room was positive and encouraging, setting the 
casual tone for our photo shoot. I instructed Jewels to pretend the camera 
wasn’t there and perform as usual. Having danced traditional ballet for 
over a decade, I’m prone to giving dancers tough criticism — so when I say 
I was impressed by these women, I mean it. I’m all too familiar with trying 
to make the challenging and painful look graceful. Watching Jewels fly 
around the pole, land splits, and strip to the beat of the music all while in 
eight inch heels reinforced how unbelievably strong and underappreciated 
women are. 
I wanted to clap uncontrollably when her set ended, but the men around 
the room looked beyond bored. Even stripping, an expression of female 
agency and powerful sexuality at its core, seemed dampened yet again by 
the male psyche. After driving back home, gushing all the while to my 
boyfriend about how unbelievable the performance had been, I did some 
further research on Les Girls. 
I discovered that six months ago, 
The Rock Church had bought out 
the strip club next to Les Girls and 
harassed the owner to give in and 
sell her property as well. During an 
interview segment with the head 
male pastor, he made sure to stress 
how the church wanted to help girls 
escape “this kind of lifestyle. ” For 
me, the central issue surrounding 
stripping lies in this statement. 
Instead of respecting and admiring 
strippers for their talent, we shame them — even when celebrities’ songs 
on the radio are just as sexually explicit. It’s time that women themselves 
choose how they are represented. The public, Christians in particular,  
Stigmas   and   Strippers
Photo Editor Francesca Hummler captures the strip club in all of its bare, neon-lit glory, 
questioning how gender, agency, and sexuality operate within the space.
By FRANCESCA  HUMMLER      Photo Editor
“Even stripping, an 
expression of female agency 
and powerful sexuality at its 
core, seemed dampened yet 
again by the male psyche.”Jewels dancing on the stage at Les Girls.
FRANCESCA  HUMMLER   photo@ucsdguardian.org
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
One of Les Girls bares herself for the Guardian during a show.Stripping Dow n Stripping
A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Emily A. Duncan’s glittering debut, 
“Wicked Saints, ” is a novel obsessed with monstrosity. What makes a 
monster? What does it take to become one? And what does it mean to love one? Every moment in the story is fascinated with these questions and desperate to explore every corner for the answers. The result is monstrously satisfying.
The world of “Wicked Saints” is a 
vibrant and deadly one. A holy war has dragged out for centuries between two nations: Kalyazin, a country faithful to the gods, and Tranavia, a country that broke apart to develop their own heretical blood magic. Raised in a Kalyazin monastery, Nadezhda “Nadya” Lapteva has known all her life that she was chosen by the gods 
to save her country from the heretics. She 
is a cleric, blessed with the rare ability to communicate directly with her deities and possess their powers, and she has never known any other life than one of faith. When her beloved monastery is attacked and she is forced to run, she meets a few unlikely allies in a Tranavian defector and a prince. Though each of them may come from different lives, they all share the same goal — to kill the king and end the war.
From the opening battle sequence, 
readers are thrust into the story at whiplash-inducing speed. The pacing of the story is swift, almost rushed, especially with a world of so many new magical rules, complex mythology, and lengthy names (try saying “Malachiasz” five times fast). However, once you’ve adjusted to the setting and the novel hits its stride, the 
fast pace becomes a strength rather than 
a weakness. Even in its less action-packed moments, the story is too captivating to feel slow. It becomes easy to fall into the snow-covered mountains of Kalyazin and the swamplands of Tranavia, and it feels inevitable to fall in love with the story’s characters.
It’s true that there is no scarcity of 
coming-of-age fantasy novels in young adult literature, but “Wicked Saints” sets itself apart by delving into what so many young fantasy novels seem to shy away from — religion. Yes, it’s a made-up religion, set in a world of magic and strange creatures, but it’s a lush and enchanting one nonetheless. Duncan expertly uses Nadya’s beliefs to explore her growth as a character. From the beginning, Nadya understands monstrosity through the lens 
of her faith. She believes Tranavians are evil 
because their magic comes not from the gods, but from their own blood. However, when she is separated from her gods and faced with horrors greater than what she’s been prepared for, she is required to learn the blood magic that she’s always despised and to become what she’s always feared. As her power grows, she begins to realize that even the gods may be afraid of her. In this way, Nadya’s coming-of-age is a strange and monstrous one, but the metaphor is clear and universal: growing up is ugly business.
— TANY A  NGUYEN
Contributing WriterWICKED    Saints
by  Emil y  A.  Duncan
A-As a dark and ambitious exploration of power, religion, love, and what it means to 
be a monster, “Wicked Saints” is a signi ficant addition to the young adult fantasy 
genre. 
Av en g ers: En d ga m e
PHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL
Directed by   Anthony Russo, Joe Russo
Starring  Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Josh Brolin
Release Date  April 26, 2019 (USA)
Rated  PG-13CA-
The end of an era — Marvel’s “ Avengers: Endgame” is a finale worthy of superheroes.
An entertainment titan and pop culture 
phenomenon, the Marvel Cinematic Universe has undeniably been a 
constant in our collective consciousness for the past 10 years. Merchandise, theme parks, 
and 22 movies and counting — for better or 
for worse, it’s difficult to deny the impact that the MCU has left in both film and consumerist culture.
It seemed that the MCU had reached its 
peak with the universe-colliding “ Avengers: Infinity War.” The highest mountain had been climbed. The devastation of losing half the universe’s life forms, killing off many 
familiar faces, left a burning question for both 
survivors and moviegoers: What happens next?
Without revealing spoilers, “ Avengers: 
Endgame” answers that question, and many, many more. It explores the aftermath of “the snap” and how our remaining superheroes deal with it in different, sometimes unexpected ways. To recover their fallen friends and 
family, they find themselves forced to confront 
their pasts and protect the present. 
The film spends only enough time to 
catch viewers up with the utmost important information, aware of its whopping three-hour runtime. And unlike its brutal, action-packed predecessor, “Endgame” takes its time to let the profound effects of “Infinity War” settle in. While some scenes are slow, they deliberately help the film from becoming too narratively rushed or emotionally draining for its own good. “Endgame” is a welcome change of pace for the franchise, but it’s still cut from the same cloth as other MCU installments in 
other ways.
While not as abundant in previous films, 
the humor and amount of fanservice, like 
easter eggs and cameos, in “Endgame” is what you expect for a Marvel movie — sometimes a little too on-the-nose, but are otherwise much-needed tension-breakers in this case. Winks at other movies like “Ocean’s Eleven” and “The Big Lebowski” also liven up somber 
moments. 
Like many other Marvel movies, 
“Endgame” suffers some technical ills. Besides 
top-billed actors, most characters compete for less than a minute of screen time each. Even scarcer are interactions between the majority of them. There’s also a lack of attention to the lives outside of the Avengers’ , as well as some dubious science for convenience’s sake. In 
“Endgame, ” the impressively choreographed 
hand-to-hand combat of the Captain America trilogy is traded for brute power and heavy CGI. The CGI doesn’t dazzle like “Doctor Strange, ” but fast cuts and dark, muddy colors — while also poor directing choices — mask the flaws.
In spite of technical gripes, “Endgame” 
still lands on its feet. Its not-so-secret weapon is its likeable characters, who prevent the MCU from enduring the same pitfalls as the DC Extended Universe. The characters might have inhuman powers, but they have very human emotions and responses. It’s a simple 
formula that works.
Even greater is the movie’s ultimate 
showdown. Underneath its frenzied editing 
and visual effects, the adrenaline-filled climactic fight is thrilling to witness. It’s a tremendously ambitious undertaking, considering the stakes and the amount of sheer power involved. It all pays off, some twists and tears later. Marvel has never been 
the best at creating memorable lines (besides 
its jokes), but hearing that iconic “ Avengers, assemble” is a chilling experience.
Most importantly, “Endgame” is a fitting 
send-off, and there’s a relieving sense of closure that will leave most viewers satisfied. Loose ends are tied. Rivalries, flames, and friendships are revisited and settled. At times too indulgent or difficult to remember, nods 
to previous movies make “Endgame” a fun, 
even giddy nostalgia trip. As much as it’s a run down memory lane, the film is also an evolution of many characters.
“Endgame” is ultimately Tony Stark 
(Robert Downey Jr.) and Steve Rogers’ (Chris Evans) story. Having solidified themselves as the tentpoles of the franchise, the two characters take the spotlight among a cast of dozens. Against them is Josh Brolin’s Thanos, who remains one of the most memorable movie villains of this decade. Both sides see their goals as noble pursuits, an outlook that makes Stark and Rogers admirable and 
Thanos even more appalling.
Those sick of formulaic superhero movies 
that deal with cookie-cutter villains and 
repetitive origin stories need not worry when they get dragged to see “Endgame. ” While it’s not likely to change minds, it’s still a cinematic spectacle worth watching. It’s hard to imagine a more exciting way of concluding over a decade’s worth of films.
As a follow-up to “Infinity War, ” “Endgame” 
is just as memorable, and even more meaningful. Technicalities aside, “ Avengers: Endgame” is a touchstone in film and triumphantly passes the torch to a new era of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Still, one can’t help but wonder again: What happens next? Is this the pinnacle of superhero blockbusters, or 
just the beginning?
 
 
— JUSTIN  NGuyEN
Senior Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW
BOOK   REVIEWTRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Mobile 
TicketUC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER
TRANSIT PASS
Use your phone as 
your mobile ticket to ride with the
COMPASS CLOUD APP  Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Cloud and get 
unlimited rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and 
SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.) 
Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  
or continuing students from Spring 2019 to Fall 2019 required.
summerpass.ucsd.eduExclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
ONLINE SALES ONLY: 
JUNE 19 – AUGUST 31A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
AFTER
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Jenny Gage
Starring  Josephine Langford, Hero Fiennes-Tiffin, Selma Blair, Khadijha Red Thunder
Release Date  April 12, 2019
Rated  PG-13CC
“Afte r ”  g o e s  t h r o u g h  t h e  m o t i o n s  o f  p o r t r a y i n g  t h e  e m o t i o n a l  w h i r l w i n d  o f  fir s t  l o v e  b u t  f a i l s  t o  m a k e  i t  f e e l  r e a l .
For all the marketing of “ After” , with 
trailers featuring Ariana Grande’s “Dangerous Woman” and posters with 
the barely-clothed leads about to embrace, the film itself is ultimately quite tame. The arrival of “ After” to the big screen is arguably more scandalous than the film itself.
Originating on fan fiction platform 
Wattpad in 2013 by Anna Todd under the username imaginator1D, “ After” follows college freshman Theresa “Tessa” Y oung as she meets and falls in love with Harry Styles. After 
an initial surge of internet popularity, “ After” 
was formally published in 2014. Harry Styles became Hardin Scott (presumably because neither Todd nor her editors had ever heard of 
literally any other stereotypically male name 
that begins with the letter “h”), and the series became a quick best-seller and optioned to become a film.
The plot is formulaic and predictable: 
obedient (and virginal) girl with overbearing mother arrives at college, gets introduced to an edgy crowd through her roommate, falls for the bad boy, thinks she “fixes” him, gets heartbroken, and makes up. A few changes were made: Tessa’s roommate Steph (Khadijha Red Thunder) has a girlfriend, Tristan (Pia 
Mia), Tessa has some nuance when she 
mistreats her boyfriend Noah (Dylan Arnold) while exploring her interest in Hardin (Hero Fiennes-Tiffin), and there is a villain, Molly 
(Inanna Sarkis), who is jealous of Hardin’s 
interest in Tessa. The “twist” is very ‘90s, and it’s only not immediately obvious because it’s essentially pulled out of thin air to break Tessa and Hardin up. The plot is basic but present 
enough that the film functions and is easy to 
follow, making for a viewing experience that’s neither thrilling nor terrible.
The secondary characters and plot points 
are forgettable, but with a film like this, that’s honestly the point. It’s really about Tessa, Hardin, and their relationship. The success of “ After” lies in how invested the viewer gets. The result is middling. As Tessa, Langford 
does well in imbuing her character with the 
naivete and eagerness of a young woman beginning to figure out who she is. She sells Tessa’s nervousness when she first encounters Hardin, her defiance when she finally stands up to her mother, and her angry sadness when Hardin’s betrayal is revealed. Fiennes-Tiffin’s 
Hardin, though, isn’t in the same league. He’s 
supposed to be the breathtakingly hot bad boy of every Harry Styles fan’s self-insert fantasy (complete with versions of Styles’ 
tattoos that are uncannily altered), but instead 
he’s wooden and flat. Part of this is the writing, in which Hardin’s rough exterior falls away too quickly to be satisfying character development, but most of it is Fiennes-Tiffin’s 
monotone delivery of almost every line. When 
he’s meant to be in anguish at the thought of losing Tessa, he looks like he’s pained by a stomachache or a really bad cramp.
The film doesn’t take risks with its 
filmmaking, but its portrayal of love scenes is refreshing for the obvious female gaze. It’s evident that director Jenny Gage cares about how sex figures into a young woman’s coming-
of-age. When Hardin first touches Tessa, he 
stands behind her while the camera follows his fingers along her stomach. It’s clear in framing her as the subject experiencing newfound pleasure; the film is neither depicting her sexual exploration for male viewers to ogle her nor for female viewers to ogle Hardin, but 
to show how sex fosters a deeper emotional 
connection with a partner and changes oneself. These slow-motion scenes between Tessa and Hardin are accompanied by big, 
sweeping orchestral strings to underscore that 
the sex is not there to just sell.
While “ After” is not the swoon-worthy 
romance it tried to portray itself as, its attempt to depict the coming-of-age of a young 
woman in a way that includes sex but does 
not exclusively revolve around it is admirable and appreciated in a media landscape that still portrays young women as sex objects far too 
often. It can’t escape its origins, though, and 
comes across as a 2013 film that’s out of place 
in 2019.
— ASIY AH  SYED
Contributing WriterFILM   REVIEW10                                                                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  6 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
This is my first year attending UC San Diego as a transfer student, 
and I find that I am still trying to navigate my way through. Starting 
a new school is always scary; you have to make new friends, meet 
new professors and locate the best places to get coffee. Connecting  with a professor is rewarding because you gain a deeper appreciation for one 
another. 
 I have been lucky enough to meet a literature professor who makes 
me want to go to class. That sentence sounds bad, but there are some classes 
that are less enjoyable than others. This professor makes class fun in such a 
way that we remember the lessons taught that day, and that is a rare thing 
to find. We are all so focused on just getting in, finishing our degree, and 
saying duces to the life we are leaving behind that we forget to appreciate 
the ones who have helped us get through the last four years.
 For those of you who are literature majors, or even those who 
are interested in literature, Professor Margaret A. Loose is someone worth 
getting to know. Sitting in her classroom, I can feel the passion she has for 
literature as it flows through my veins during her lectures; it is too precious 
to forget. Her lectures are special because of the way she puts herself into the stories of the characters we read. I understand the readings better 
because of how real and truthful she is. I can relate to her.
 When I first stepped into her office, I was out of breath from all the 
stairs I had just taken — it never occured to me to take the elevator — but 
seeing her tower of books with interesting titles was so inviting. It was as 
if I belonged there among her shelves. She is always very welcoming with 
her smile; she makes it difficult to remember that she is my professor, and 
I must treat her as such. She speaks to students as though they are friends, 
which makes it easy to speak to her about anything. Professor Loose is a 
literature professor with a Ph.D. in English from the University of Iowa. 
However, she used to be a pre-med student. Her major before literature was 
biology, and she took one literature course just for fun. After that, she fell 
in love with it and like that, her major went from biology to literature. She 
teaches literature classes as well as a senior seminar for literature majors. 
 She teaches Victorian Literature which deals with the years between 
1837-1901, and I was very interested to know which character from that 
time period she was most drawn to.
 “I think it would be, ‘Who would you most like to be?’ Aurora 
Leigh. She is the title character of Elizabeth Barrett Browning; she’s smart, 
self-confident, and a poet, ” Loose said.
 I also wanted to get a sense of how she felt about her college self 
and if she would’ve done anything differently as she looked back on her past. 
She said, “Don’t panic about your uncertainty. ” I felt that was very reassuring 
because she let me know that she had taken a break from school because she was still unsure about what path to take. “Literature transforms you, it makes you see the world in a different way, and I was noticing that I was 
being nicer to my mom. I wasn’t so judgemental about everything around 
me. These books were about me!” Professor Loose said. She had connected 
with literature, and I thought that was very powerful. I admire how strong 
she was as she told me her true thoughts. 
  “Be kind. Think about everything else that lies behind the person 
who is looking back at you in the mirror. Be patient. Recognize that we 
are all vulnerable; put on your kid gloves. You can’t control a lot of what 
happens, but you have control in how you respond and react. Be happy. ”
 Professor Loose loves her job and you can see that just by sitting 
in her classroom. The interactions she has with her students as well as her 
lectures grab hold of students because she is sharing her life with all of us as 
she speaks. In addition, I have also met great classmates. College is where you meet those friends who will stay forever, and I am grateful to the ones 
that I have made as they have guided me, influenced me, and shaped me into 
the scholar I am today. In this chaotic world, we need a little guidance and 
I appreciate my classmate, Senior Jaqueline Esquivel, for taking the time to 
share her thoughts. 
Jackie is an english major who will be graduating this Spring Quarter with 
a Bachelor of Arts and will be continuing her education here at UC San 
Diego. She lives on campus and takes courses at Mesa College to reach 
her graduation requirements. Speaking with her and getting to know her 
background just shows me how strong of a woman she is. She is working 
hard to reach her end goal but also informed me to have fun during the 
process. She said that her favorite part of UCSD are the professors, both 
from the literature department and the education department. 
 “They’ve taught me to think with deep criticism and analyze the world around me in a new way. I want to become a teacher, and UCSD has 
an amazing education studies department that centers around diversity in 
education and a great masters in teaching program as well!, ” she said.The motivation behind her, is her mother, because of the hard work and 
dedication she portrays. I believe her mother is immensely proud of her. 
 “I’ve faced many obstacles that could have prevented me from being 
where I am. Nevertheless, I have persisted and learned many things in the 
process. ”
 I am forever in the debt of these wonderful ladies who took the time 
to share their stories with me. Thank you, and good luck Tritons. There are 
no obstacles that we can’t overcome and I feel as though their stories can 
help each one of us reach our end goal. put on your kid gloves
Claudia Miranda in a selfie with Dr. Margaret A. Loose. Miranda started her 
freshman year with literature course taught by Loose. Put on Y our Kid Gloves On
By claudia miranda       Contributing LIFESTYLE writer
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
An Ode to the Writing Hub
By samirah martinez       LIFESTYLE staff writer
When I first began my job as a writing tutor at the Writing + Critical Expression 
Hub, I expected my work to just be about helping students shift a few commas 
around before their assignment deadline. The Writing Hub, located at the 
Teaching + Learning Commons, is actually much more than just a proofreading center. The 
Teaching + Learning Commons, the Executive Vice Chancellor’s executive branch, prides itself on 
many principles for all of its branches, including student academic support. The Writing Hub is no 
different, and one of the Hub’s mottoes is “Help writers, not writing. ” Tutors primarily try their best to 
give students the tools they need to become better writers — even past the deadline of their Muir Writing 
paper. This goal often requires a lot of training and practice to achieve, and most of the job is using quick 
thinking skills to best decide how to help students in the long run. 
I walked into my first day at work as a shy and insecure undergraduate. While I was still trying to 
find my footing as a UC San Diego student, I allowed myself to have fun at this job and do the best I could. While there were many ups and downs along the way, I learned (and still continue to learn) more 
and more about not only the writing process but also about my working self. Being able to participate 
in opportunities outside of tutoring, such as presenting at conferences and conducting group research, 
has helped me assess my strengths and weaknesses as a working individual. Participating in these 
opportunities pushed me outside of my comfort zone but gave me the confidence to take charge of my 
tutoring practice and welcome challenges as a chance for growth and learning. Who I am at work is not the person I am at home or with friends or family, but I realize that each of these separate lives are 
valid and make up the person I am today. These experiences added a layer to my complexity as a person 
and reminded me that the confidence and determination I experience at work can be applied to my life 
outside of work, too. 
While it may be easy to mark my personal story as irrelevant to the UCSD population, one of the most 
important messages I learned from my tutoring job is the value of personal connections in a 
school where it sometimes feels like the college social experience is not taken seriously. 
Something that was not included in my job description was the emphasis on 
community that would emerge from a job like this. I have met fellow tutors who have opened my eyes to new perspectives in life and with whom I have 
made valuable friendships. Most importantly, I have been stopped by students 
outside of the Writing Hub who have thanked me for helping them. In my 
eyes, it is comforting to know that regardless of how crazy college schedules 
may be, both students and tutors can always count on the Writing Hub 
to lend a helping hand. In a college that is often labeled as socially dead, 
services like those offered at the Teaching + Learning Commons can have a positive impact on student lives; it is through collaboration that we can 
truly meet each other, and if anything, feel a sense of belonging within 
a larger community. Valuable interpersonal interactions are what make 
UCSD feel less like UC “Socially Dead, ” and I hope that everyone on this 
campus has the chance to meet friends who make them feel whole and 
find communities where they can create a home away from home. 
compelled to 
write? submit 
an article to 
the guardian as 
a contributing 
writer!12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  6 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Contact the AS Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at asdiversity@mail.ucsd.edu • 858.534.3300UC San Diego Student Health Center and CAPS both 
employ experts in transgender health care, tailored to provide students with personalized medical services.  
There are also dozens of providers within California that are in-network under UC SHIP .
UC SHIP covers:
• Hormone Therapy
• Gender Confirmation Surgery
 - phalloplasty, vaginoplasty, gondal surgery and mastectomies
• Travel Costs
Interested students should contact Student Health Services or CAPS for more information/to schedule an appointment.
Student Health Services: wellness.ucsd.edu/studenthealth
CAPS: wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPSDid you know UC SHIP covers transitional expenses?
HELPING TRITONS IN NEED
Triton Food PantryTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 2pm-5pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 2pm-5pmSPRING 2019It’s hard not to feel attacked by the persistent “flyerers” on the UC 
San Diego Library Walk, the annoying posters on the back of lecture 
seats that always stick to your shirt, or the constant shouting of self-
proclaimed “incredible deals” on boba or spam musubi. The number of student organizations on our campus can often feel overwhelming, yet 
many students express that they feel like there’s no place for them on 
campus. 
If you’re looking to get more involved, the Current UCSD Student 
Organizations website is a helpful place to get started. It arranges 
organizations by category — cultural, service, martial arts, media, and 
more — to make the search process more intuitive. Once you’ve found 
an organization you like, check their Facebook page or website to get 
information on upcoming events or GBMs that you can attend. 
Interested in dance?  
There are many outlets for hip-hop and urban dance on campus, such 
as [N]Motion Dance Team, Sleepless Collective, Ascension, or 4N01 
Dance Team, an all-women group. If you’re more of a contemporary 
dancer, try Finesse Dance Company, and if you’re into Latin dance, try 
Salsa Club at UCSD, Salsa Society, or Argentine Tango Club at UCSD. UCSD also has a number of cultural dance organizations, including Lion 
Dance at UCSD, Raas Ruckus Dance Team at UCSD, Chinese Dance Association, and Ballet Folklorico la Joya de Mexico.
While they are not a student organization, movement classes from the 
theatre and dance department offer students a way to start or continue dance while receiving class credits at the same time.
Interested in culture?
Whether you’re looking to dig deeper into your own cultural 
background or to dive into other customs and cultures around the world, UCSD has a wide list to choose from! Some organziations to check out 
are Hawaii Club, Hermanas Unidas de UCSD, Hermanos Unidos de 
UCSD, Armenian Student Association, Lesbian Collective, Company 
157, or TamashaSD. Joining groups like these is a perfect way to meet others who identify with similar customs and interests as yourself. 
Beyond Library Walk: UCSD’s Organizatons
By colleen conradi & annika Olives      LIFESTYLE editors
Interested in service?
You’re bound to find service organizations that cover a range of topics 
and causes at UCSD. If you’re interested in tackling food insecurity, check 
out Swipe Out Hunger, Food Recovery Network at UCSD, or the Triton 
Food Pantry. Want to improve health in our communities? Check out 
MEDLIFE at UCSD, Red Cross at UCSD, Engineering World Health, 
Expanding Visions for Health, Fronteras Saludables (Healthier Borders), 
or Public Health Brigades. If you’re looking for clubs that offer service 
opportunities abroad, try Mission Mongolia or Project Kilimanjaro. If 
you’re interested in causes related to women, look into PERIOD. at UCSD or Women SPEAK. If you’re looking for service organizations with lots 
of options for local volunteering, Rotaract Club at UCSD and Circle K. 
International are two popular choices. 
Interested in the arts or media? 
UCSD has lots of options to look through if you’re interested in arts or 
media. Some cool organizations to try out involving media are The Aisle, Fashion Quarterly Magazine, Streamline Media Production Company, 
The Student Network for Analog Photography (SNAP) at UCSD, Saltman 
Quarterly, Video Game Development Club, or Trend. If you’re looking for an art-based organization, look into Multi-Identity Art Collective, Muir 
Art Club (MAC), Comicbook Club at UCSD, San Diego Arts Collective, 
or Origami Folders at UCSD.
Interested in finding a new hobby or meeting new people?
There are tons of other organizations on campus that are meant for 
creating connections between students and for simply having a good time. 
If this sounds like something you’ve been searching for on campus, try 
A Capella Choir, Board Game Club, Figure Skating @ UCSD, Climbing 
Team at UCSD, Comedy on Campus, Muir Musical, Triton Film Society, 
Triton’s Ohana, Strides Running Club, Pepitos, or Intermission Orchestra. 
This is by no means a comprehensive list of the clubs available at 
UCSD. Many departments and majors have their own organizations, such as the Cognitive Science Student Association or the Undergraduate 
Communication Society at UCSD. UCSD also has a number of fraternities 
and sororities if you’re thinking about going Greek, and there are many 
faith-based clubs to further your spiritual side. Joining an organization 
can be a great way to meet new people, explore different interests, or 
make your UCSD experience less socially dead — you just have to find 
the right one. 
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
TOMMY PICOTUESDAY, APRIL 30
The Loft @ UCSD, PC East • 6:30pmTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAY 6 - MAY 122019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each 
week. Materials provided, space is limited. 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM- THE 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER 
CONFERENCE ROOM. 2ND FLOOR, 
PRICE CENTER
This drop-in forum is for all South Asian 
Identified students, including South Asian International & Desi American students pursuing their undergraduate, graduate & professional degree at UCSD. Join us to discuss the following topics, and to learn from each other: Week 4 (4/23) Unfair & Lovely: Colorism in South Asian culture. Week 6 (5/7) Stress Management: A crucial tool to academic success! Week 8 (5/28) Self -Compassion: A form of self-care. Facilitated by: Niyatee Sukamaren, Ph.D. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
7pm
ADULTING: CAR 
MAINTENANCE -THE LOFT
KACHOW. Are you tired of car repair shops 
ripping you off with unrealistic quotes? Has your battery ever died on you in the middle of 
nowhere? Come learn some of the basics of 
car maintenance from an expert as part 5 of 
University Centers' Adulting series!  Topics to be covered: Changing a tire and checking tire pressure. Breaks. Changing your car's oil. Transmission. Saving gas. Engines... and MORE! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
10am
UC SAN DIEGO GRAD FAIR- UCSD 
BOOKSTORE
Now's the time to purchase and pick up your 
cap & gown, or bundle and save with a Triton Grad Pack. Find out about diploma frames, class rings, grad announcements, exclusive sales, senior portraits, meet with alumni and more. Win great prizes too, including a $350 Visa gift card! Contact: marketing@bookstore.ucsd.edu. Website: https://ucsandiegobookstore.com/t-gradfair.aspx
7pm
I-HEART: COMIC -CON-GREAT 
HALL AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
This year, 2019 marks Comic-Con International's 50th event, making it the longest continuously-run comics and pop culture convention in the world. The international reach of Comic-Con is unquestioned, as thousands flock to San Diego each summer from all parts of the globe to participate. Come learn more about Comic-Con's history and impact on international pop culture, hear from staff members about how to get involved at "The Con", and have the opportunity on-site to apply for volunteer positions for this summer! TUE5.07
THU5.09MON5.06
8am
SPRING WEEK OF ACTION-D1: PC 
PLAZA, D2: BLOCK 1994, D3: THE 
STAGE ROOM, D4: MCGILL 1350, D5: 
REVELLE PLAZA
Sexual Assault Awareness month may be over, but 
that does not meet we should stop fighting 
against sexual assault! Join It's On Us at UCSD 
for a whole week events and learn how you can 
END campus sexual assault, especially in our 
UCSD community. You will learn about being an 
active bystander, how sexual assault cases are 
handled and how academic fields study sexual 
assault. You will also create of ways on how you 
can change campus culture and show your 
support for survivors. With the events happening 
during Spring Week of Action, you will be inspired 
to take action and find out how you can fight 
against the issue. Remember that It's On Us, all 
of us, to STOP sexual assault. Contact: 
gpedro@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://www.instagram.com/p/Bw0Sf4FhJ2Y/
10am
DESTRESS MONDAYS-COMMUTER 
LOUNGE
UCSD University Centers (Price Center and 
Student Center) Presents: Destress Mondays . 
Doors: 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM. FREE for UCSD 
Students w/ ID. Mondays can be stressful, so start 
your week on a high note with FREE tea and 
snacks! Come destress with University Centers 
EVERY MONDAY this winter quarter! 
#DeStressMonday.
12pm
ABE KING: BLISSFUL CATASTROPHE 
OF DIY -508 GALLERY, VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY
MFA Thesis Exhibition from Abe King. Reception: 
May 10, 2019, 7-10 p.m. Contact: 
nlesley@ucsd.edu 858-822-7755. Website: 
http://visarts.ucsd.edu/news-events/20190501-1
0_abeking.html
4pm
AREA 61- WARREN FIELD
Sixth College Student Council and CoBoard 
brings you an out of the world experience with : an alien-themed festival kicking off the first ever merger of Sixth College's most beloved spring festivals: Kuncocshun and Chocolate Festival. Join us for free food, DIY activities, live music, a dodgeball arena, chocolates (of course!), giveaways and a NEVER BEFORE SEEN amusement ride at UCSD. Free for students w/ UCSD ID. Contact: syw034@ucsd.edu. Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/2185915074981314/?active_tab=about
7pm
KALLISTI PRESENTS CHAMBER 
OPERA -CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Established by Grammy award-winning 
soprano Susan Narucki at the University of California, San Diego in 2009, kallisti offers San Diego audiences exceptional performances of rarely heard works for voice in an intimate setting. Singers from UC San Diego's Graduate Program in Contemporary Music Performance and distinguished guest artists collaborate in a wide range of repertoire that celebrates the extraordinary beauty and power of the singing voice.  General Admission: $15.50. UCSD Faculty, Staff, Alumni: $10.50. Student Rush: Free, one-hour before concert, with ID. Contact: anegron@ucsd.edu. FRI5.10
7pm
KALLISTI PRESENTS CHAMBER 
OPERA - CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Kallisti offers San Diego audiences exceptional 
performances of rarely heard works for voice in an intimate setting. Singers from UC San Diego's Graduate Program in Contemporary Music Performance and distinguished guest artists collaborate in a wide range of repertoire that celebrates the extraordinary beauty and power of the singing voice. General Admission: $15.50. UCSD Faculty, Staff, Alumni: $10.50. Student Rush: Free, one-hour before concert, with ID. Contact: anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu. SAT5.11WED5.08
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DAILY DROP-IN 
WORKSHOP - CAPS CENTRAL 
OFFICE 190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you 
can apply immediately to manage and reduce the 
symptoms of stress in your life.  Facilitated by: 
Scott Hansen, Ph.D.(858) 534-5915. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu (858)534-9408
5pm
I AM LUBO: A HIDDEN LIFE WITH 
LOUIS PECHI - GEISEL LIBRARY, 
SEUSS ROOM
Born in the Croatian city of Zagreb, Louis Lubo 
Pechi was seven years old when the Germans invaded Yugoslavia. In response to the mounting 
anti-Semitic repression and strict laws 
prohibiting Jews from traveling, the Pechis 
converted to Catholicism and changed their identities in hope of finding safety in Italy. While 
the Pechi family managed to escape to Rome, a 
series of unexpected events followed, marking a 
lengthy journey of survival for Lubo. Decades later, he began the arduous process of recovering 
the memories of his hidden life by writing his 
memoir I Am Lubo: A Child Survivor from 
Yugoslavia. Contact: e7lim@ucsd.edu. Website: https://library.ucsd.edu/news-events/events/hlhw
-pechi/
6pm
TV DINNER: SHAOLIN SOCCER- THE 
LOFT @UCSD
Come out with your friends and watch the 
hilarious Hong Kong movie Shaolin Soccer! With a 90% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and 95% Google user review, the movie will surely leave entertained. In addition, there will be good food and good company!  "The most successful Hong Kong film ever, this is a very traditional underdog sports team story told in a delightfully nontraditional style, with whimsy, fantasy, and heart" - Common Sense Media. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 8588222068. 
6pm
UC SAN DIEGO GRAD NITE - UCSD 
BOOKSTORE
Congratulations Triton Seniors! UCSD's red carpet, graduation kick-off party for the class of 2019! Seniors, bring your family & friends to this not-to-be-missed event. Pick up your cap & gown, free food, fun zone with DJ and photo booth, Alumni, class rings, diploma frames, grad announcements, senior portraits, thousands of dollars worth of prizes, PLUS sales exclusive to this night only.Contact: marketing@bookstore.ucsd.edu. 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SPICE IT UP
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Tone down
5. Lacking required skills10. J. Child’s measure
14. Watering at the mouth
15. Active start
16. Agatha’s contemporary17. ‘’Fiddler on the Roof’’ star, combined 
form
19. Past participle of lie
20. Wrath
21. Dealer’s request22. Puts in office24. Some till fillers
25. Comes about
26. Used a hook and line
29. Public square30. Mantle teammate31. Brining need
32. Abominable
36. Prudish one
37. ‘’--- Coins in the Fountain’’38. ‘’--- at the Races’’ (Marx Bros.)39. Bring into harmony40. Pretentious41. In solitary42. Ram sign44. Used a rotary phone45. Auctioned again47. Write-off48. Lions and tigers and bears, e.g.49. Malodorous50. Kimono sash53. Matter or body start54. ‘’Cape Fear’’ actress, combined form57. British gun58. Utopian59. Hymn to Apollo60. Wear for Indira Gandhi61. Front for wed or married62. Shea denizensDOWN
1. Word in a DeNiro title2. Teen follower?3. ‘’Encore!’’
4. Psyche part
5. Pressed
6. They may be out on a limb7. Cigar ending8. Prior to
9. Put up with
10. Bald actor, combined form?
11. Prop up12. Narrow cuts13. Jots down
18. Prides of lions
23. Ms. Taylor
24. Famous designer, combined form?25. One place to find cats26. Fuse measurements
27. Not one
28. Cheshire cat’s feature
29. Segments31. Destroy documents, in a way33. Punk rocker Billy34. Space between the dotted lines35. Watched carefully37. Sudden collapse into failure41. Wedding way43. Deteriorate44. A way to be sure45. Oscar de la ---46. ‘’Purple People ---’’ (Sheb Wooley hit)47. Faithful48. Sport fisherman’s catch49. Rode the wind50. Ornamental arch51. Get the better of52. Highway stopovers55. Keat’s work56. Tach readingCARS
Used Acura TL 2012 Red, 64.2k miles in 
San Diego, CA. 2012 Pre-owned Acura TL for Sale. Features: Speed-sensitive volume control, Radio data system, Bluetooth HandsFreeLink wireless tele -
phone interface, 276-watt Am-fm radio 
w/WMA/MP3 player & 6-disc in-dash CD 
changer -inc: Bluetooth audio, Dolby … 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Used Volkswagen Passat 2015 Candy 
White/Black Roof, 65.7k miles in San 
Diego, CA. 2015 Pre-owned Volkswagen Passat for Sale. Features: Audio Theft Deterrent, one LCD Monitor In The 
Front, Window Grid Diversity Antenna, 
Radio w/Seek-Scan, Clock, Speed 
Compensated Volume Control … ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
2017 Ford F550 in San Diego, CA. 2017 
Ford F-550, XL, Standard Cab, Just low -
ered by $1,348!! Priced below MSRP!!! 
What a value*** There are Vehicles, and then there are Vehicles like this trusty XL!! All smiles! Optional equip -
ment includes: GVWR: 19,500 pound … 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
BIKES
2017 Trek Emonda sl ultegra di2 in San 
Diego, CA. 54cm 2017 Trek Emonda 
sL Bike is light, stuff and responsive. 
Excellent for climbing. eleven speed 
ultegra 6850 di2 172.5mm ultegra 50/34 crankset Specialized romin evo … ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Mountain Bike Women’s Giant REDUCED 
in San Diego, CA. This is a lightly used women’s Giant Sedona Mountain bike, wheel size is 26” . It is beautiful and works incredibly well with no opera -
tional issues. I have taken may images to show just how good of condition this bike really is … ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Trek 1200 Sport Road Bike with STI shift -
ers (Santee) in San Diego, CA. It is in very like-new condition, 27 speed, 50CM, ter -
rific tires, aluminum frame, ready to ride, 
VERY LIGHT, asking 260, please call or 
text ***. Please check my other listings, 
I have several bikes for sale, type in my 
phone number in the bicycles cate … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
INTERNSHIPS
Entry Level Teacher: All Majors & 
Experience Levels - As a Teach For America corps member, you’ll receive a 
full salary and benefits from the school 
district or charter school where you are 
employed. Benefits of Applying Early 
to the 2020 Teach For America Corps: - Enter into your senior year with a job 
offer already in hand - You’ll have the 
ability to build connections with your 
fellow early admitted corps … ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationSystems Engineer - Sustainment Data 
Quality and Integration Management in 
Fort Worth, TX - The selected candidate 
will be a member of a high-perform -
ing team supporting F35 Data Quality 
and Integration Management (DQIM) and will be responsible for providing technical Engineering knowledge and skills supporting F-35 Sustainment Data Product Integration &amp; Delivery (SDP I&amp;D) … ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Designer, Creative Studio at Starbucks 
in Seattle, WA - We’re looking for a 
designer to join our Global Creative 
Studio in Seattle. You’ll work with talent -
ed creatives to help drive the success of one of the world’s most recognized and beloved brands. You’ll develop concepts 
for the packaging and Starbucks Card 
team … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
STAC
STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEEThese meetings are biweekly
and open to the public.The Student Transportation Advisory Committee  
is a board of student representatives from each of the 
six college councils, the Graduate Student Association, 
and the Associated Students designed to advise 
Transportation Services and other UCSD administrators 
on the execution of the UPass program and various 
Transportation and Parking issues on campus.
College representatives can be reached via their college 
councils and STAC leadership can be reached via 
stac@ucsd.edu. Feel free to send any questions or 
concerns you would like addressed at STAC to this email 
or AS's general contact form at as.ucsd.edu.
Softball Stifled, Knocked 
out of CCAA Tournament
The bats were quiet for the Tritons in a pair of loses.
The bats just weren’t there. This 
week, the UC San Diego so ftball 
team’s start to its postseason run in 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament saw a pair of tough losses send the team home early, losing their first matchup 5–4 
to the California State University, Sonoma Seawolves before falling again later to the California State University, San Francisco Gators. 
UCSD came into the tournament 
as the No. 1 seed, which gave the Tritons a first-round bye, meaning 
they were able to skip the first day 
of the games. 
“We were fortunate enough to get 
the bye, we didn’t play the first day 
and we were really itching to get 
out there today, ” head coach Patti 
Gerckens said in a press conference at the end of the day.
In their first game of the 
tournament, the Tritons faced o ff 
against No. 4 seed Sonoma State. In a tight game, the Tritons lost 5–4, 
with most of the damage coming 
from the Seawolves in the latter part of the game. 
UCSD came of the gates 
swinging, scoring fast in the first 
inning. With two people on base, freshman le ft fielder Keila Bosinger 
hit a home run to le ft field to push 
the team up 3–0, and an error by Sonoma State would give the top seed a 4–0 advantage right out of the gate. 
However, a fter their explosive 
start, the Tritons were unable to 
reproduce that type of o ffensive 
production for the rest of the game. 
The Seawolves slowly chipped 
away at the Triton’s lead, eventually 
pulling ahead 5–4 at the top of the 
eighth inning. 
In the bottom of the eighth, the 
Tritons had the chance to take the lead and close out the game on top. Unfortunately, UCSD could not record a hit: two batters recorded outs on balls in play and the third struck out, snu ffing any hope of a 
comeback. 
In their second game, UCSD 
took on San Francisco State. In this game, the Tritons were shut out 3–0. With their second loss of the 
tournament, UCSD was eliminated 
from the CCAA Tournament. With the results of the tournament, the Tritons record moves to 31–14.
Bosinger had a standout 
performance on o ffense in the game 
against Sonoma State. She recorded a team-high three runs and 1 run. Senior third baseman Maddy Lewis also had a solid outing in the tournament, scoring one of the teams few runs and collecting four putouts at third base.
“Offensively we just really didn’t 
show up today, ” said Lewis in a press conference a fter the game. “We did have our opportunities but we weren’t clutch in the situations we needed to be in. ”
If the Tritons had won out the 
CCAA Tournament, they would 
have earned an automatic bid 
for the NCAA West Regional Tournament, but going in coach Gerckens knew the potential risks 
of playing in the CCAA. 
“Every weekend is a battle in 
the CCAA, ” Gerckens said. “It’s 
anybody’s tournament truthfully. ”
However, since the Tritons were 
eliminated, their only opportunity to continue their postseason is if the NCAA selection committee give the Tritons a bid, which as the top seed in the CCAA heading into the tournament they more than likely will receive. 
But coming into the NCAA 
tournament a fter a pair of losses 
is not an easy feat to accomplish. “We just need to learn from it, and kind of just wipe it away, start over and start fresh, ” Lewis said. “We definitely have some work to do 
today at practice but we’re going to come back stronger. ”
The committee will make its 
selection at 7 a.m. on Monday, May 6. The NCAA West Regional 
begins on Thursday, May 9. 
BY Wesley xiao & Jack Dorfman
Senior staff writer & sports editor 
Wesley xiao    wex057@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF CHRISTINA FERRANTE16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 6, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Wagner at Stanford for NCAA 
Opening Roundvs Pomona at StocktonNCAA West Regional, Location TBDUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Water Polo
Baseball
Softball12PM
11AM
TBD5/7
5/8
5/9
Women’s Water 
Polo Looking to Make a Splash at the NCAA Tournament
The Tritons will take on their 
tournament rivals from the last three 
seasons in round one. 
To cap o ff what has been a 
tremendous season, the UC San 
Diego women’s water polo team will travel to Stanford University’s Avery Aquatic Center to face the Wagner University Seahawks for the third straight year in the opening round of the NCAA tournament on May 7. The Tritons 
began the tournament having won 11 of their last 12 games. They are on their way to a seventh 
consecutive Western Water Polo Association championship before next season’s move to the Big West Conference, which will mark their 
entrance into Division I. 
The Tritons sat at 7–11 early 
in March but have been on a tear 
ever since to finish the season 
with a stellar 21–14 record. Senior attacker and team captain Krista 
Schneider explained to the UCSD Guardian that such a pattern is 
typical. “We’re trying to figure out 
plays, our di fferent schemes, who’s 
our starting lineup, and di fferent 
teams. By the end of the season, we’re flowing a lot better. ” 
Head coach Brad Kreutzkamp 
attributed this year’s success to conditioning, saying to the Guardian, “We’re not getting tired in the second half of games like we have in years past. ” 
The improvements down the 
stretch culminated in a seventh straight WWPA title, and eighth in ten years under Kreutzkamp. 
“We had a lot of adrenaline just 
because it’s our last time playing in that tournament, so we wanted to go out with a bang, ” Schneider said. 
Another notable player on 
this year’s team is senior center Chanel Schilling, who took home the WWPA Co-Player of the Y ear honors; she joined a pair of sophomore La Jolla High School products, Ciara Franke and Bennett Bugelli, on the WWPA All-Conference team. Sophomores attacker Grace Pevehouse and utility player Taylor Onstott received honorable mentions, while freshman utility player Maddie Bockman was named to the All-Freshman team.
Wagner (30–9) had another 
characteristically strong season, winning their sixth straight Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference title this season while going 14–1 in conference play. The Seahawks 
have knocked UCSD out of the last two NCAA tournaments and to make matters worse, also entered the tournament on a hot streak. Their last true loss came 
back on March 30, over a month ago, against a top-25 team in the Princeton Tigers. 
The Tritons’ trip to Stanford is 
a relatively short one, especially compared to the 2,500 miles the Seahawks will fly from New 
Y ork City, something Coach Kreutzkamp feels should work in the Tritons’ favor. “When you’re on the road, you’re really focused on the job, because what else are you going to do? We eat, we go to the hotel, and we play, ” Kreutzkamp said.  
The Tritons have been reviewing 
the film from their 11–8 loss to 
Wagner that came back on Jan. 20 of this season, but both Schneider and Coach Kreutzkamp stressed that both teams are di fferent than 
they were 15 weeks prior, and the film might not tell the whole story. 
This week’s Collegiate Water 
Polo Association rankings put UCSD No. 14 and Wagner No. 19 in the nation. The winner of their 
matchup will take on the top-ranked University of Southern California (26–1). 
But that’s looking too far ahead 
for Kreutzkamp. 
“I don’t even think about it, ” 
Kreutskamp said. “If we are privileged enough to play USC at that time, we’ll start dissecting that game. ” 
This season was the Tritons’ last 
in the WWPA. “Our squad has just outgrown that conference, ” said Kreutzkamp. 
As for the transition, he has 
a singular focus. “Recruiting, recruiting, recruiting, ” Kreutskamp said “We already play all the Big West teams, and we’re right on their tail. ” 
But for now, the attention 
remains forward and on the next game, the biggest of their season. “I remind them constantly that we’re one of only ten teams that are still playing in the whole country, ” Kreutskamp said. “Everybody else is finished. They don’t take that 
lightly, and this game is certainly a bigger game. ”
BY Praveen nair
contributing writer 
pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY O F DERRICK TUSKAN
Triton Score Report
Baseball took down the California State Uni -
versity East Bay Pioneers twice on Friday, May 
3 and won 17–12 in game 3 on Saturday, May 
4 to finish their regular season on a high note, winning game one 8–3 and game two 4–1. The 
team was paced by the middle of the order in 
both Friday games, with the two through five 
hitters collecting 7 of the team’s 14 hits and 4 
of the team’s 12 runs. On the mound, junior right-handed pitcher Brandon Weed moved to 9–0 with a 5 inning, 5 strikeout performance 
in game one. In game two, senior left-handed 
pitcher Preston Mott finished with the same 
final line, 5 innings and 5 strikeouts, to move 
to 7–1 on the season. On Saturday, the team was led by senior utility R.J. Prince and fresh-
man infielder Ryan McNally who had three hits 
apiece. With the wins, the team finishes the regular season with a 35–10 overall record, a 
30–10 conference record, and an impressive 
22–4 record at Triton Ballpark. The team will do battle in the CCAA tournament beginning 
on Wednesday, May 8 against California Poly-
technic University, Pomona.BaseballA few of the UCSD teams that competed over the last week will be 
covered, with top moments, players and scores being reported.by Jack Dorfman
Sports Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICSTrack and Field hosted the 2019 Califor-
nia Collegiate Athletic Association cham-
pionships, demonstrating how strong the 
Tritons were this season, with 18 top-3 finishes. The women’s team finished sec-
ond overall while the men’s team finished 
third overall. Senior Matt Bowen earned 
Field Athlete of the Meet for his success-
ful triple jump and long jump scores, the former of which made him an NCAA pro-
visional qualifier. Men’s teams and com-
petitors that won their respective events 
included the men’s 4x100 relay team, 
senior Nicholas Rack in the 110-meter hurdles, junior Christian Kallenberg in the 
javelin and decathlon events, freshman 
Maximilian Halvax in the 400-meter race, and sophomore Jake Selstad won the 
800-meter race. For the women’s team, 
senior Natalie Caraway won the high jump and triple jump events, and junior 
Claudia Cox won the 400-meter hurdles.Track and Field