The UC San Diego Police 
Department announced a proposed 
policy that aims to change the way students get around campus 
on Nov. 5, 2019. Known as the 
“Micromobility Device Policy, ” 
the proposed rules are target to 
regulate “devices or vehicles [...] intended or used for human 
transport, ” which include bicycles, 
electric and manual scooters, skateboards, roller skates, and any other wheeled vehicle that would fit the parameters listed in the policy.
Bicycles and similar methods 
of transportation have long been 
regulated on the UCSD campus 
in an attempt to ensure safety 
for all pedestrians and vehicle 
operators and to minimize the risk 
of accidents. However, the current 
policy enforced by the UCPD is brief in that it only states when and 
where it is acceptable to operate 
such micromobility devices.This new policy, sent campus-
wide on Nov. 5, is more detailed and ambitious in its goals than 
its predecessors: PPM270-3 
Regulations (concerning Bicycles) 
and PPM270-2 Regulations 
(concerning Skateboards) — both 
of which were issued over 20 years 
ago on Dec.1, 1997. If passed, the 
“Micromobility Device Policy” 
would become the new standard on campus. The American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees Local 3299 
held a strike on Wednesday, Nov. 13 
across the University of California campuses and 
medical centers in response to six Unfair Labor 
Practice charges against the UC administration. 
The charges include outsourcing laborers and replacing low-paid UC employees with private contract workers without proper bargaining or consent of the union. 
The summary of the six complaints outlines 
the trend of the UC administration replacing employees with privately contracted laborers, attempting to evade minimum wage policies, failing to notify the union of contract proposals, neglecting to provide the opportunity to bargain, and failing to provide information requested by AFSCME about new contract proposals via Request for Proposals.
AFSCME, the labor union representing UC 
employees, last went on strike in May 2019 over ULP charges. Only three had been made at that time, concerning illegal outsourcing, as well as a failure to bargain with the union.
In 2017, a state audit was conducted on the UC 
Office of the President’s labor practices. It read: “Some university locations avoided competitive bidding by repeatedly amending contracts and through sole-source exceptions. ” 
In Summer 2019, the UC Regents disclosed 
that expenses for outsourcing contracts had increased by 52 percent since 2016. 
Ruth Zolayvar, an AFSCME Local 3299 
Striker and UC employee who has been working in Patient Pharmacy Tech for 13 years, spoke on the outsourcing of labor at the rally in front of Thornton Hospital in the Jacobs Medical Center.
“ A lot of outsourced workers work side by side 
with our workers, and these workers are cheap labor, ” Zolayvar told the UCSD Guardian. “They don’t have any voice, no insurance, no benefits, 
but they work side-by-side with us, and that’s why 
we feel it should be equal pay. UC is massively 
hiring them and paying them for cheap. ” 
Zolayvar also noted how outsourcing affects 
patient care.
“We want the best quality of care we can give 
them, but if they keep contracting workers there 
for cheap labor … [patients and] students don’t get quality service they need, ” Zolayvar said. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Azriel 
Almera, who is a core member of United Students Against Sweatshops and an intern for AFSCME 3299, was also at the strike.
 “ As students, we have a lot of political power 
since we pay tuition, ” Almera told the Guardian. “We have more leverage in terms of where we want our money to go. I’ve heard stories, especially in the dorms [about how] it’s always 
the same person coming to clean. A lot of 
students, too, come from far away places so it’s nice to have familiar faces. These workers have families and kids and understand struggles and want what’s best for students and we want what’s 
best for them. ” 
David Page, who has been working as a 
respiratory therapist for 14 years, also attended 
the strike. 
“It’s a public institution, ” Page told the 
Guardian. “They’re outsourcing jobs on campus 
and that brings down services that [students] 
rely on. UC is willing to go behind our backs and unions’ backs and displace people who deserve to be treated fairly. ” 
The 2017 state audit also revealed that 
UCOP had failed to follow its own fair contract policy guidelines and that the university lacked a database of service contracts across all UC 
campuses.
According to the audit, “low-wage services VOLUME 53, ISSUE 8  MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 18, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Students 
Demonstrate as 
Supreme Court 
Addresses DACA
UC President Napolitano spoke at the 
Supreme Court while students rallied
TRANSPORTATION
UCPD Proposes Regulations on “Micromobility” Devices
Labor union worker and student members march together to end UC outsourcing. // Photo by Nithish NarasimmanStudents demonstrated in front 
of Geisel Library for the Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals 
program while oral arguments for 
the program were being heard at 
the Supreme Court on Tuesday, 
Nov. 12. The lawsuit being heard 
was brought forth two years ago by the UC Office of the President 
in an attempt to stop the Trump 
administration from rescinding the 
program.
The students, chanting phrases 
like “cut their checks, fund our 
lives, ” and “up up up with liberation, down down down with 
deportation, ” showcased banners 
calling for the defunding of the 
U.S. military and the abolishment 
of U.S. Immigrations and Customs 
Enforcement.
Xelestiál Moreno-Luz, a senior 
who is the leader and organizer of the protest, spoke to the UCSD 
Guardian about the message that 
she was trying to convey through 
the march.
“When we are talking about 
undocumented liberation and about the access for undocumented 
people, if we are only focusing on 
DACA, we are missing a lot of 
people who need opportunities 
and support to be free and live 
comfortably, ” Moreno-Luz said.
Moreno-Luz showed 
affirmation to University of California’s support of DACA, but 
also expressed further aspiration. 
“What I want to see UC do more 
of is a call to end deportation and a 
call to end detention” Moreno-Luz 
said.
Junior Gabrielle Nathanson 
spoke to the Guardian on why she was protesting.
“I’m here because a lot of 
things are happening very quickly, ” 
Nathanson said. “The border 
patrol is getting more aggressive 
… dozens and dozens of families [and] hundreds of people are being 
detained for no reason … so I 
wanted to fight against that. ”
Crystal Romero, another student 
protesting, told the Guardian that 
she felt like it was her duty as a 
U.S. citizen to support her fellow students.
“The reason why I am here is 
because, as a US citizen, I think 
that it is my responsibility to stand 
for those that do not have the same 
privilege as I do, ” Romero said. 
“Whether that is undocumented people or students that are under 
DACA, we have to stand and 
support one another. ”
While the students were 
protesting on the UC San Diego 
campus, UC President Janet 
Napolitano gave a speech on the steps of the Supreme Court 
Building while the oral arguments 
for the lawsuit were being heard.
“Our suit demands that the 
Trump administration abide by the By  madeline  leon   
Senior STaff wRiterLABOR
AFSCME Local 3299 Strikes to Protest UC OutsourcingPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Everybody in that 
room was completely 
hypnotized without 
any outside 
distractions. Us. 
Him."
OPINION:  QUARTER  CAP
HEAL THY  HABITSCREDITS  UNCAPPED
LIFESTYLE  TIPSOPINION,  PAGE  4
LIFESTYLE ,   Page  10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Users of these filters 
should consider 
the underlying 
implications of 
these sugary-
sweet, butterfly-
adorned vehicles 
of weaponized 
insecurity."MONDAY
 H 79 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 60 L 54
TUESDAY
H 71 L 57
THURSDAY
H 59 L 49
LIGHTS AND SIRENS......3
D&D..................................5
STAR WARS.....................8 
STUDENT MEALS...........11
TRITON TIMEOUT...........16DACA
Jillian Calilung
 Beauty Filters
 PAGE 4The proposed policy is intended to regulate devices and vehicles used by students to get around on campus
BY Luis  Valente
Contributing writerBY Jacob Sutherland, vivian yang, 
and  troy  toquero
News WritersCONCERT REVIEW:
STEVE LACY
A&E, page 9
See SCOOTERS,  page 3 See NAPOLITANO,  page 3See STRIKE,  page 2
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
It’s pecan, not pecan.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 contract workers received hourly 
wages that were $3.86 lower than 
comparable university employees 
received. ”
An increasing trend towards 
hiring contract workers was one of the reasons for the formation of 
Wednesday’s strike.
“Just within the past three 
years, the UC’s outsourcing practices have increased from 
7,000 to 10,000 workers which means more and more workers 
are getting lower pay, no benefits, 
and no job security, ” AFSCME 
stated on their event page. “This 
behavior is UNACCEPTABLE 
and the UC needs to be called out 
on their bulls--. ”Rosa Hernández, an AFSCME 
member, also spoke at the strike at Thornton Hospital. She gave 
her speech in Spanish. An English 
transcription has been provided.
“Queremos que los nuevos 
empleados tienen beneficios 
porque tienen familias. Queremos 
que la gente tienen un trabajo a 40 
horas. UC les falta de respeto por 
las familias … Eso es un derecho 
que tener un seguro para darle un mejor futuro a nuestros hijos. ” 
[We want new employees to 
receive benefits because they have 
families. We want them to work 40 
hours [a week]. UC lacks respect 
for families … It is a right to 
have security in order to provide a better future for our children.]
A statement by AFSCME on 
their Facebook event page for the 
strike claims that this outsourcing 
has disproportionately displaced 
minority workers. It states, 
“[Service workers and patient 
care workers] are the LOWEST 
PAID out of all jobs at the UC and 
not coincidentally, are 80 percent 
BLACK AND BROWN workers 
and mainly women of color!!” 
In October 2018, AFSCME 
Local 3299 released a research 
study that noted, “Black workers 
leave their jobs involuntarily, 
for reasons such as layoffs or 
dismissals, at a high rate — nearly 
double that of white men, and more than double the rate for 
Asian/Pacific Islander women. ”
While an investigation into 
the six charges is still ongoing, 
California’s Public Relations 
Employment Board claims that 
they have found substantial 
evidence that supports one of the 
complaints.
As of the time of writing this 
article, AFSCME Local 3299 has not announced the duration of the strike.
Friday, Nov. 8
12:24 a.m. Noise Disturbance - 
The Village East Building 2
Loud screaming. Will cooperate.
1:43 a.m. Information - Gilman 
Drive
Caller requesting someone be 
on the phone with her while walking through campus. Service 
provided.
2:17 a.m. Noise Disturbance - 
The Village West Building 8
Thumping on walls. Unable to 
locate.
3:00 p.m. Petty Theft/FraudReport of attempted purchase 
on victim’s credit card that was 
mailed out to victim but never 
received by victim. Online report.
12:40 p.m. Person Down - La 
Jolla Village Drive/Villa La Jolla 
DrivePerson laying on the sidewalk. 
Referred to the San Diego Police 
Department.
2:02 p.m. Fraud - UC San Diego 
Police Department
Report of scam telephone calls. 
Logged event.
6:34 p.m. Injury - Asante Hall
Female resident sustained injury when glass cup broke in hand 
while washing dishes. Report 
taken.
7:06 p.m. UC Policy Violation - 
Central Mesa Apartments
Small group smoking cigarettes 
in parking lot. Unable to locate.Sunday, Nov. 10
1:33 a.m. Drunk in Public - Lot 
402
Intoxicated female seen 
vomiting and with unsteady gait. 
Transported to Detox.
12:23 p.m. Hazard Situation - 
Tioga HallRental scooter knocked over in 
walkway. Service provided.
12:32 p.m. Citizen Contact - Off 
Campus
Reporting party was a victim of a 
scam that asked him for money; 
loss $200. Service provided.4:31 p.m. Injury - 64 Degrees
Male with injury to tongue. 
Information only.
6:30 p.m. Battery - UCSD 
Medical Center - Hillcrest
Combative patient kicked 
custodial agent. Hospital security report taken.
11:14 p.m. Marijuana Contact - 
South Mesa
Odor of marijuana, chronic issue. 
Unable to locate.
11:32 p.m. Quiet Hours Contact 
- Village East 1
Loud noise. Checks OK.
Monday, Nov. 11
1:30 a.m. - 6:30 a.m. Petty Theft 
- The Solar Chill on Scholars 
Drive
Unknown subject(s) stole four 
Bird chargers. Online report.
4:34 a.m. Noise Disturbance - 
Matthews ApartmentsLoud music for last 30 minutes. Quiet on arrival.
10:15 a.m. Injury Report - Ché 
Café Parking Lot
Female’s leg cut by tree branch, 
conscious and breathing. Report 
taken.
5:09 p.m. Report of Burglary - Mississippi Street, San Diego
Caller reporting unknown subject 
removing items from their home. 
Referred to San Diego Police 
Department.
10:51 p.m. Disturbance - Mesa 
Nueva Building F - MareaCaller reporting smoke 
from outside grill coming in 
apartment. Gone on arrival.
10:55 p.m. Suspicious Person - 
Sheraton Hotel, La Jolla
Unknown subject refusing to 
leave pool area. Referred to San Diego Police Department.
10:59 p.m. Smoke - Thornton 
Pavilion
Caller sees smoke and possible 
flames near bottom of building, 
hears fire alarm; advised it is 
steam from building and not 
smoke. Check OK.
Tuesday, Nov. 12
12:01 a.m. - 1:11 a.m. Suspicious 
Circumstances - North Point 
Drive/Scholars Drive North
Female motorist being followed 
by two vehicles who seemed to 
be trying to box her in or cut her 
off so occupants could talk to her. Report taken.5:25 a.m. Reckless Driving - 
Interstate 5
Two vehicles racing on I-5 North. 
Referred to California Highway 
Patrol.
8:39 a.m. Hazard Situation - 
Interstate 5/Carmel Mountain Road
Wheelbarrow in #2 lane on 
Interstate. Referred to California 
Highway Patrol.
12:26 p.m. Injury - Geisel 
Library
Skateboarder versus scooter rider, possible wrist injury. Gone on 
arrival.
1:06 p.m. Citizen Contact - 
Price Center
Report of post-it note with 
strange message. Check OK.
2:39 p.m. Marijuana Contact - Medical Teaching Facility
Report of male on beach smoking 
marijuana. Gone on arrival.
4:05 p.m. Disturbance - Geisel 
Library
Three subjects trick skating in 
front of location. Gone on arrival.
4:18 p.m. Suspicious Package - 
Pepper Canyon HallBag and other items inside 
lighting fixture inside men’s 
restroom. Unable to locate.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduAFSCME stated that these unfair labor practices especially harm workers from marginalized backgrounds
▶ STRIKE , from page 1
MADELINE  LEON   M7LEON@UCSD,EDUNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
law and abandon its attempts to upend the 
lives of young people who have been living 
with uncertainty and fear in the country 
they call home, ” Napolitano said. “This case 
is not just a matter of what is legal — it is 
about what is right. ”
In a teleconference following the oral 
arguments hearing, Napolitano explained further the importance of the lawsuit being 
brought against the Trump administration 
in regard to the protection of UC students.
“To remove [students] DACA protection 
in the way that the Trump administration 
has attempted to do and to make them 
subject to eviction from the only country 
they’ve known as home …  is inconsistent 
with good immigration policy and is inconsistent with our values as a country, ” Napolitano said.
California Attorney General Xavier 
Becerra, who has been active in trying to 
protect the program as well, spoke on the 
case in regards to the nation as a whole 
during the teleconference.
“[Today’s hearing] was a fight for the 
values that have made America a beacon of hope for America, ” Becerra said. “I believe 
that the nine justices heard why we must 
continue to have that as our legacy. ”
Napolitano has been a strong advocate 
for DACA recipients, having authorized 
the program while serving as the U.S. 
Secretary of Homeland Security under the 
Obama administration in 2012. She has led the push for a lawsuit against the Trump administration since the initial attempt to 
rescind the program in 2017, filing a brief 
with the Supreme Court on Sept. 27, 2019.
As of 2017, according to the Public 
Policy Institute of California, more than 
750,000 people are in the program, with 
over 200,000 of these individuals living in California.
While Tuesday’s oral arguments mark 
an important step for the case, the Supreme 
Court is not expected to reach a verdict on the fate of the DACA program until the 
Spring of 2020.
One of the hallmarks of the proposed 
policy is the prohibition of the use of 
cell phones and similar devices. It also prohibits the use of any devices or tools 
that would inhibit any of the operators’ 
senses, as university officials believe such 
devices make it harder for riders to notice 
pedestrians and hazards, potentially 
resulting in an accident. 
The policy goes into further detail, 
stating, “Operators of micromobility devices may not wear a headset covering, 
earplugs in, or earphones covering, resting 
on, or inserted in, both ears while operating 
the device. ”
This would affect students who like to 
listen to music throughout their on-campus commutes like Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore Blythe Rinehart-Pimentel, who 
rides her bike to get around campus. While 
she’s willing to cooperate with the rules, she 
believes that this policy may not be enough 
to ensure campus-wide safety. 
“I also think that there are a lot of 
other ways to make campus mobility safer including limiting pedestrian use of 
cell phones, [building] wider roads and 
pathways to accommodate more people, 
limiting hours or routes of certain larger 
carts, and enforcing the speed limit for 
bikes and other micromobility devices, ” Rinehart-Pimentel said.
She also considered the difficulty of 
enforcing this policy as she believes it is hard to force people to be mindful of their 
surroundings. 
For example, students continue to ride 
their bikes and skate through Library Walk 
and other parts of campus, despite the fact 
that current policy prohibits it between 
the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Using that logic, Rinehart-Pimentel believes there’s 
no guarantee that people will adhere to a 
new policy. 
“Just like any other rule for bikes on 
campus, however, many people will not 
follow it, ” Rinehart-Pimentel said.
Another rule introduced in the new 
policy states that micromobility vehicles “must use lights and reflectors when 
operating between sunset and sunrise, if 
such use would be required for operation 
on roadways under the California Vehicle 
Code. ”
John Muir College senior  Logan Dela 
Cruz and Roger Revelle College senior Alston Wong are skateboard enthusiasts, 
and believe skateboards are a different type 
of micromobility device, noting that some 
of the proposed policy notes may not seem 
appropriate for them.
“Skaters don’t go that fast in the dark, ” Wong said, who believes that the rule doesn’t necessarily apply to skateboard 
operators. “They need to see the terrain well for them to go fast so pedestrians 
would be safe from skaters anyway, in the 
dark. ”
It is important to note that while 
regular skateboards may be exempt from 
this rule, users of electric skateboards 
may have to comply with this policy as the California Vehicle Code requires that 
electric skateboards be fitted with lights 
and reflectors.
“I feel like [this rule is] necessary for 
bikes and scooters, ” Dela Cruz said. “It’s 
hard to see after sunset as a biker and I can 
only imagine how much harder it is to see a bike or scooter without lights or reflectors. ”
The UCSD administration is 
encouraging students to voice their thoughts 
on the proposed policy, which can be read 
in its entirety at http://adminrecords.ucsd.
edu/PPM/DraftMicromobilityPolicy.pdf. 
Questions and comments regarding this policy may be directed to Paula Johnson 
in Policy and Records Administration at 
pjjohnson@ucsd.edu no later than Nov. 
30, 2019.INTO THE LIBRARY 6 
By Michi Sora
A question and comment period is open through the Policy and Records Administration through Nov. 30Becerra: “[T oday’s hearing] was a fight for the values that have made America a beacon of  hope...”
▶ SCOOTERS , from page 1▶ NAPOLITANO , from page 1
Luis  Valente   lvalente@ucsd.edunews@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
If you’re also a user of the mind-numbing distraction 
machine known as Instagram, you’ve probably seen it on your story feed: the dramatic flushed cheeks, 
the inflated doll lips, the oh-so-cute virtual freckles. They appeal to the sparkling aesthetics of the internet age; they’re absolutely adorable; and they’re a widespread and invasive form of toxic beauty standards: Instagram selfie effects.
For the uninitiated, Instagram has introduced a 
feature that allows users to create their own selfie filters using augmented reality technology. With these effects, people can digitally modify their facial features with the Instagram camera, producing interesting — and sometimes disturbing — results. The advent of user-created effects allows users to project all the aesthetic tastes and preferences of Instagram culture directly onto their face, emulating styles that most frequently target young women. Recurring motifs by users @ilovediany and @alexandra_kisa include designer prints plastered across glass-smooth skin, butterflies or Playboy bunnies stamped onto rosy-red cheeks, and, most prominently, inflated lips reminiscent of a Bratz doll, or perhaps the work of a Beverly Hills plastic surgeon. Basically, the filters can make your face look like it was submerged in a vat of bubblegum-pink social media influencer essence, and they’re all the rage. 
The popularity of these filters could be attributed to 
their appeal to the glitzed-out, cyber-glam sensibilities of Instagram users, but I’d say it goes deeper than an affinity for face tattoos. The beautifying effect of these filters is 
immediate and jarring; you’ll likely end up resembling a 
stereotypical Instagram model. 
In the more popular filters, eyes are elongated and 
narrowed like Kendall Jenner’s, noses are slimmed down, all blemishes are blurred and eradicated, and lips are plumped to an extreme degree like the other Jenner sister. Despite these extreme, almost cartoonish distortions, many young women display their virtually-altered look proudly on their stories and posts. Perhaps it helps us get a taste of an unachievable beauty standard, even if it’s just for a moment. 
These filters don’t derive all their popularity just from preying on insecurities — they’re actually pretty fun to use. In what other context would I get to sport Hello Kitty face tattoos without permanently ruining my employability? The selfie effects indulge my e-girl aesthetic fantasies and transpose them right onto my face, yet I simply don’t feel right using them. With no makeup on and running on two hours of sleep, I took a selfie with the filter better than any other selfie I’d ever taken. It was a selfie I would never be able to achieve with my actual 
face, and yet I derived an odd sense of satisfaction from 
seeing that artificial doll-faced version of me. I couldn’t help but think: What if I could actually look like this? The selfie filters had given me another person to compare myself to, but this time it was a hyper-beautified version of myself. 
These filters, beyond the kawaii artifice, encourage the 
internalization of unrealistic beauty standards for social media users, and their impact can be disastrous for one’s self-image.
It’s one thing to see the highly-edited, Facetuned 
influencers on our feeds every day, but to see exactly how we’d look if we matched social media beauty standards perfectly is radically more destructive. Before social media and selfie filters, the only people who had access to edited, perfected photos of themselves were celebrities in magazine spreads or advertisements. Today, absolutely anyone has that same access, and absolutely anyone can utilize that access for likes and validation on social media. This is a practice that could potentially lead to a multitude of self-image issues when the filtered face on Instagram 
with hundreds of likes doesn’t match the unfiltered face 
in the mirror. 
Disregarding the Hello Kitty tattoos, the face that 
stared back at me when I tried the filter wasn’t my own — it was an accumulation of every facial feature social media regularly tells women they need to be pretty. My eyes were enlarged, my nose was reduced, and my lips were engorged; I also had freckles though, so I guess that makes it look super natural! The function of the effects, beyond the glitter and fluff, is to distort an individual’s face in order to emulate coveted beauty trends that are really only achievable through plastic surgery. If one is unhappy with their appearance but regularly appeases their insecurities with these filters, it’s easy to imagine that they’d eventually seek out something more permanent. So, using these selfie filters is more complicated than it may seem.  
Once I got past the initial primal delight of resembling 
an influencer on the explore page more than what I see in the mirror, I began to feel uneasy. It wasn’t the edgy dragon tattoo splayed across my right eye or the koi fish 
across my cheeks that left an impression. It was the fact 
that my face no longer belonged to me; it belonged to a larger system of influencers and corporations that profit off telling women that their appearance is inadequate. This isn’t a new phenomenon — entire industries have made billions by inventing beauty standards that women are encouraged to meet at any cost. 
These filters ultimately represent a new, particularly 
invasive, and damaging symptom of this disease. We catch a glimpse of what could be made possible only with plastic surgery and makeup, and then with an accidental swipe of the finger, it’s gone. 
The transition between using a cute Instagram selfie 
filter and undergoing extensive cosmetic surgery is admittedly steep and complex. I’m not trying to argue that these filters are wrong because there’s a direct and unavoidable correlation; it’s much more complicated than that. What I am trying to argue is that the use of these filters perpetuates the notion that the range of beauty is an incredibly limited one, and features that don’t fall within this narrow categorization are not good enough. The 
filters send this message every single time they replace 
perceived “imperfections” with a marketable mold of the female ideal. 
Users of these filters should consider the underlying 
implications of these sugary-sweet, butterfly-adorned vehicles of weaponized insecurity. Ask yourself: Why do I feel prettier?
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
By: Jillian Calilung  //  Contributing WriterDystopian Beauty Standards, But Make It Cute
Academic Senate Quarter Caps Will Obstruct Student Success 
On Oct. 30, the UC San Diego Academic Senate 
submitted a now-controversial amendment to the 
campus-wide graduation requirements. The change 
imposes a 12-quarter limit on all non-transfer freshmen and a 6-quarter limit on all incoming transfer students. 
To compensate for the restricted time limits, the Senate 
also chose to strike down the 21 credit cap per quarter. While the decision intends to increase UC San Diego’s 4-year graduation rates, it makes higher education even 
more inflexible and exclusive than it has historically 
been. It fails to acknowledge the various other facets of life that may interfere with a speedy degree process 
and encourages students to jam-pack as many courses 
into a quarter as need be. In recent years, UCSD has committed millions to construction projects meant to improve the university, but all it seems to have done is 
build a factory that churns out more and more graduates. 
The UC system’s desire to crank out students like 
an assembly line is hardly new. The UC Office of the President and the UC Regents tasked any campus that 
could feasibly accommodate more students to do so, despite outcries that it will place increasingly large burdens on already-stressed resources. UCSD is one of 
the several campuses charged with expanding, hence 
the ever louder whir of construction equipment and the ever-larger deficit that UCSD is running. Coupled 
with the issue of over-enrollment, the new graduation 
requirements are yet another indication that the number of students squeezed through the system takes priority over the quality of the education they receive. 
Capping the number of quarters will not affect 
every student, but considering that the average time for degree completion for UCSD undergraduates is 4.3 
years, the change affects much more than a tiny fraction 
of students. The fundamental flaw with the change is that it assumes students should  always graduate by a prescribed amount of time and that the quality of their 
education will not diminish if this time frame is overly 
short.  
For various reasons, a 12-quarter limit is restrictively By: Chris Robertson // Sta ff Writer
jillian  calilung  jcalilung@ucsd.edu
See CREDITS, page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
short. Students may extend their time-to-degree because of personal commitments 
like work or family, sports, illness, or simply because they value courses not 
included in their major requirements. UCSD’s own structure may place an 
undue burden on students to graduate in 12 quarters. An engineering student at Roger Revelle College, with its notoriously time-consuming general education 
requirements, would have to ramp up their already-busy schedule with even more 
courses to finish in 12 quarters. UCSD seems to believe the quick fix is to just take more courses per quarter with the credit cap gone. As if academic and mental health resources aren’t already overburdened, the stress of taking five or more courses per quarter and the burden it would place on existing resources went over the head of the Senate’s voting bloc. That is all without mentioning how 
many students could not feasibly take a greater number of courses given their 
other commitments or how doing so would aggravate their already-precarious conditions. 
Students already cite everything  from massive class sizes to the quarter 
system itself as debilitations to their education. Quarter limits are yet another source of stress to stack on top. The Academic Senate underestimates how much 
such stress can interfere with a student’s education, or it at least cares less about 
stress than student’s  graduation statistics. 
Financially-struggling students, students with mental health issues, students of 
color, disabled students, and other disadvantaged groups have brought the issue 
up continuously for decades though. For most students, Plato takes a backseat 
during a mental health crisis, as does the latest robotics assignment when the student can’t pay rent. Tacking on the element of speed in education sets yet 
another obstacle for  students, distracting them from course material and active 
engagement with it. 
To want a greater number of people to get an education and get that education 
efficiently is not a crime. UCSD does its students a disservice, though, when it approaches education as a one-size-fits-all commodity. Education is a process complicated by a million factors besides credit count and quarter limits, so UCSD’s approach to it must have more nuance than the Academic Senate 
currently allows.
 If the Academic Senate is insistent on instituting quarter limits, it must include 
exemptions for students who cannot graduate in 12 or 6 quarters, greatly expand its advising and mental health resources, and face acknowledge its responsibility 
to guarantee a consistent quality of education. 
FEEDBACK FORUM
Tuesday, November 19 • 7 –9 pm
Multipurpose Room, Student Services Center, 1 st Floor
Join Associated Students and voice your opinion at our first Feedback Forum of the year. 
We will be asking for your feedback on the proposed 2nd Yr Student Parking Restriction.TOPIC: PARKING FREE FOOD!To register:
bit.ly/ASFEEDBACK19
For more information, contact AS Campus Aﬀairs at asvpcampusaﬀairs@ucsd.edu.THE SYNDICATE  
By Yui Kita
Chris  Robertson  crr015@ucsd.edu▶ CREDITS , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
For a long time, as far as I was concerned, Dungeons & 
Dragons was that make-believe game the character Rowley Jefferson played in “Diary of a Wimpy Kid” 
that identified him as a social outcast. So when a couple of college friends asked me to join their D&D campaign in Fall Quarter 2017, I was a little surprised. It was my belief that D&D was an outdated, isolated game that was only played by die-hard fantasy enthusiasts. How wrong I was. 
Over the course of the next two years, my group, known 
as a “party” in D&D, and I met about once a week. As we played, I not only became more entranced with the fantastical worlds and characters my party explored, but also grew increasingly aware of just how many UC San Diego students play D&D in their free time. It seemed that everyone I mentioned D&D to either was currently in a campaign, had been in a campaign, or was friends with 
someone who played. A whole campus subculture opened 
up to me, contradicting the “UC Socially Dead” label that suggests students don’t know how to properly socialize beyond school-related topics. Hearing about others’ D&D experiences as well as participating in my own campaigns have led me to wonder: What is so compelling about D&D for UCSD students? After further investigating student players’ experiences, it is clear that D&D not only offers a sense of community, but is also a welcome creative respite from the pressures of academic life. 
D&D is a role-playing game, or RPG, typically set within 
a fantasy realm. It was created in 1974 by Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, who were inspired by fantasy-based wargames they liked to play. Members of a campaign party create their own characters based on guidelines presented in the D&D Player’s Handbook, and then elaborate on those bases by creating backstories that will match with that campaign’s plotline and world. Some campaigns use physical statues on a tabletop grid to represent their characters, but it’s more common for players to fully role-play as their characters while playing. The players are guided by a Dungeon Master, or DM, who determines the course of the campaign’s narrative and the players’ battles and interactions with characters 
within the game’s world. According to the D&D official 
website, “the core of D&D is storytelling, ” meaning that while the actual gameplay is guided by rules set forth in the handbook, each campaign’s world and story arch is a completely unique experience. What truly ensures this unpredictable, life-like element are the dice each player uses. Every major decision over the course of each session is determined via 6 dice, ranging from what is known as a d4, a four-sided die, to a d20, a twenty-sided die. Between these predominant elements of chance, open character development, and few restrictions on the type of world your DM builds, the creative opportunities for D&D campaigns are endless. 
When D&D began to gain popularity in the ‘70s, 
many comments from non-players were speculative and negative. Some socially conservative and religious groups viewed the elements of magic and demons as potentially dangerous for young people, and due to  
Dungeons   and   Dragons:
Finding   community   in   fantasy
A glimpse into the subculture of the role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons within the UC San 
Diego student body.
By Daisy Scott    Editor-in-chief
See D&D,  page 7
INFOGRAPHIC BY NATHISH NARASIMMAN AND LUKAS WILLIAMINFOGRAPHIC BY NATHISH NARASIMMAN AND LUKAS WILLIAMFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
the game’s imaginative nature, it was often 
labelled as a make-believe game for nerds. Yet, as information about the game spread and an increasing number of people started to play it, mentalities shifted to be more open-minded and focused on its positive elements of creativity and fun. Today, D&D remains a marker of nerd culture, but through its roles in the popular TV show “Stranger Things” as well as in multiple YouTube channels devoted 
to it, such as “Critical Role, ” it is growing 
ever more popular. A prime example of this popularization is its growing prevalence as a UCSD subculture. 
In a straw poll of 92 UCSD students who 
play D&D, 50 percent of them said that they didn’t start playing D&D until college. Campaign parties mostly range between four to five and six to seven players, and 32 percent of students met these fellow players through clubs. Fifty-five percent play once a week on average, and 38 percent use campus facilities to play. Eleanor Roosevelt College seems to have the most lively D&D student culture, although Roger Revelle College rests in a close second. 
In addition to these smaller, individual 
campaigns across campus, there is a sizable D&D community online. The facebook page “UCSD RPG Club 2019-2020” currently has 799 members. According to Bonnie Chen, a UCSD graduate and former president of the RPG Club, the group’s purpose is to help put students interested in D&D and other RPG games in contact with each other. Posts within this group include DMs with campaign ideas searching for players, student players searching for campaigns with available positions, general information about the RPG Club, and other D&D-related topics such as artwork and local events. 
The RPG Club also holds quarterly general 
body meetings where DMs are able to pitch their campaign ideas and gather players. Darkstar, a science fiction and gaming club 
located above Taco Villa in the Old Student 
Center, also helps students by maintaining a close relationship with the RPG club and allowing student campaigns to play in the library during its operating hours. However, a number of Darkstar librarians also participate in their own D&D campaigns, and will open the club’s fantasy library beyond the hours listed on the Facebook page so students can play for as long as they like. Between these campus-specific resources, all D&D handbooks and character sheet materials are available on the internet, and the existence of online platforms such as Roll20 that allow players to play with each other remotely, D&D campaigns are more accessible than many people realize. 
Based on my interviews with current 
D&D players, the main reasons why D&D remains so popular among UCSD students is due to its inherently creative and social nature. When playing in a D&D campaign session, players are no longer students with midterms and final projects to worry over — they are elves, bards, wizards, dwarves, dragon-borns, or paladins. The very nature of D&D as a role-playing game means that players need to immerse themselves not only within the knowledge of their campaign’s world, but within the identity of their very characters. As such, a D&D session can be a 
restorative experience solely because it forces 
players to put aside their academic lives and channel their creative selves. This can be an especially fulfilling experience for students 
within Science, Technology, Engineering, 
and Mathematics majors, as it allows them to utilize creative skills but in a structured manner. Additionally, creating and playing as a D&D character is often a freeing experience, 
allowing individuals to branch out beyond 
their comfort zones within a safe, fictitious environment. And since it is impossible to play D&D without at least a DM and another player, sessions often become a pivotal element of players’ social lives. More often than not, spending hours on end with the same group of people while working together toward a common goal leads to strong bonds or even lifelong friendships developing between 
players. 
“D&D is one of the best creative outlets I’ve 
found as I’ve gotten older because it’s not just 
writing a story or designing a character; it’s building a world and story with your friends that can span years and cover a multitude of different arcs, ” ERC senior Wiley Bowen said. Bowen started playing D&D her first year at UCSD and acts as the DM for the campaign of which I’m currently a member. “It’s something that allows you to create while having a wonderful time with your friends, and that’s why I love it so much, ” she said.
Graduate student Nevin Sarao first played 
D&D when he was in high school, but then began again only last year when several of his friends on campus expressed interest in beginning a campaign. “My favorite part 
about D&D is the ability to make dumb and silly decisions with your characters, ” he said, before going on to recount a time when his character, a sorcerer, was able to freeze a river so that his party didn’t have to walk around it. Sarao is currently a student teacher at Olympian High School, but still plays with his UCSD undergraduate friends whenever 
their schedules allow. “I definitely see myself 
playing D&D for a long time, ” he said. “It doesn’t take a lot to play. Just a few good friends and a little imagination. ”
Beyond its role as a creative outlet, playing 
D&D also attracts students due to its ability to serve as a tool in honing their storytelling abilities. Many students within the UCSD literature department play D&D not only because they are enchanted by the concept of actively inhabiting a character within a fictitious realm, but so that they may in turn be able to apply the game’s skills to their own works. 
Kimberly Pike, a senior majoring in 
biological anthropology and minoring in literature/writing, spoke with me about how she uses D&D to inspire and direct her writing. She was first introduced to D&D in 1989 while it was still an emerging trend, but was reintroduced about two years ago. Using the most recent D&D handbook, she updated her original character, Kassandra, a dwarf fighter, and created five more characters. This process helped her understand the importance of having a diverse group of characters who are able to work together within narratives as a strong team. She then began to write their fictional adventures, using D&D dice in order to dictate what direction the plot would take. 
“I was writing a battle scene the first time 
I decided to use the dice to help sculpt my story, ” Pike said. “I was struggling with how to make my battles more realistic … Then I realized that I already had the answer: my 
dice. ” Over the course of writing that battle, 
Pike rolled a d20, the die predominantly used for D&D decision-making, in order to determine each of the scene’s events. Thrilled with the experience, she still uses D&D dice to direct her characters’ actions when faced with critical decisions. “It was one of my favorite battle scenes ever and something I never would have come up with without the die rolls, ” she said. 
There is a reason why people still play D&D. 
It provides the chance to escape from the cares of academic and personal responsibilities, spend quality time with friends, and hone creative skills often underutilized in daily life. It’s no wonder why UCSD students spend so much of their limited free time toward cultivating this subculture devoted to fun and imagination. 
 
“When playing in 
a D&D campaign 
session, players are no 
longer students with 
midterms and final 
projects to worry 
over — they are 
elves, bards, wizards, 
dwarves, dragon-borns, 
or paladins.”▶ D&D , from page 6A&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Could "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" Could "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" 
lead to the fall of Disney?lead to the fall of Disney?
“Star W ars” is one of the most iconic 
movie franchises of all time, 
becoming recognized worldwide 
through its score by John Williams and iconic characters like Luke Skywalker, Darth V ader, 
Princess Leia, Han Solo, and Chewbacca. 
George Lucas created an entire galaxy of 
wonder and possibilities through his original trilogy, leading to an expanded universe 
through books and animated TV shows, 
then eventually the questionable prequels. 
Needless to say, “Star W ars” has an immense 
presence in pop culture and in the lives of 
people who grew up watching these movies. 
As Disney has done with most franchises 
in the past decade, their acquisition of 
Lucasfilm in 2012 marked a pivotal moment 
for the franchise. So far, Disney has released 
two films: “The Force Awakens” in 2015 and “The Last Jedi” in 2017. Disney’s third film of 
the saga, “Star W ars: The Rise of Skywalker, ” 
is set to release in theaters this year just in 
time for the holiday season on Dec. 20. In 
the meantime, Disney recently released its 
final trailer for the movie on Oct. 21. To say 
the least, the trailers only led me to question if the foundation laid down by the first two 
movies would be adequate to give “The Rise 
of Skywalker” a fighting chance, especially 
in a time where “Star W ars” fans were so 
divided by “The Last Jedi. ” 
To understand the predicament that “The 
Rise of Skywalker” is in, we must look at the Disney films and compare them to the 
original films. 
Firstly, “The Force Awakens” did very 
well in its presentation. The cinematography 
is jaw-dropping, especially with scenes involving the dog fights between space 
aircraft like the Millennium Falcon and the 
TIE fighters. Everything in the film looks 
stunning. Also, the scores by John Williams 
are great too. However, with so much flash, 
there is little substance to the movie itself. 
“The Force Awakens” is a glorified rehash of 1977’s “ A New Hope. ” By basically copying 
and pasting the plot of “ A New Hope, ” “The 
Force Awakens” lacks an identity as its own 
film, merely trying to cling onto the legacy of 
the original movies to get fans into theaters. 
Even then, the legacy of the original is spat 
on as Han Solo is simply killed off.  
Also, “The Force Awakens”lacks any 
development of its central character, Rey. Rey is simply given everything to make 
her perfect. She instantly knows how to fly 
the Millennium Falcon, she knows how to use the force well enough to combat the 
interrogation by Kylo Ren and command 
others to do her will, and she knows how to 
use a lightsaber well enough to defeat Kylo Ren. In comparison to “ A New Hope, ” Luke 
had to work towards becoming proficient in 
using a lightsaber and the force upon his will, 
which took him all the movies in the original 
saga. Also, Rey lacks any sort of motive 
to do what she does. Her only real motive 
is waiting for her parents, but then she is 
coincidentally swept into saving the galaxy. Turning ing Rey into such a perfect character 
facing no real adversity makes her boring, as 
there are no stakes for what is to come. This 
issue continues into “The Last Jedi” as Rey 
again manages to defeat Kylo Ren, among 
many other First Order thugs.    
Speaking of “The Last Jedi, ” this film had 
similar positives as “The Force Awakens. ” 
“The Last Jedi” had amazing cinematography 
and scores. Scenes like the battle on the 
planet of Crait, when the white salt ground is walked or traveled on to reveal the ruby 
red dust beneath, made the film visually 
stunning. Y et, the problem of Rey persists 
as her motives switch throughout the film 
as the plot dictates. First, it’s finding Luke, 
then trying to save Kylo Ren, and lastly 
saving the Resistance. In this film, Rey is still an overpowered character who cannot 
lose, with no reason to do the things she 
does. Also, similar to the disrespect shown 
towards legacy character Han Solo in “The 
Force Awakens, ” “The Last Jedi” features the massacre of Luke Skywalker’s character. 
Luke, in this movie, becomes an indecisive 
old man who holds no reverence for the old 
Jedi traditions. Also, “The Last Jedi” saw the 
death of Supreme Leader Snoke, who, from 
the last two movies, was appearing to be the 
main antagonist of this saga. Thus, with a weak central character like Rey, 
no respect for legacy characters, and now no 
real supervillain, Disney is clearly scrambling 
to make the franchise work, best seen in 
the final trailer. The final trailer shows yet 
another battle between Kylo Ren and Rey. 
Why should the viewer even feel any threat when Rey has handily defeated him in the 
two prior films? Also, the trailer features a 
voiceover from Emperor Palpatine. Disney 
believes they can easily play this off as smart 
writing that it was him behind everything 
the whole time, but this is simply just poor 
foresight from killing off the main villain in “The Last Jedi. ” Lastly, the trailer hints 
at C3-PO sacrificing himself for the main 
protagonists. As a viewer, why should I care 
about C3-PO in the context of the past two 
films? He has little to nothing in the entirety of this saga. Also, in a previous trailer, Rey 
is seen in a dark robe and a red lightsaber. 
Does Disney expect viewers to believe that 
the character who’s faced no real adversity to her “motives” would suddenly turn to the dark side? Oh please. 
Disney has massacred the franchise that 
is “Star W ars. ” They have tried to milk the nostalgia of the original films, all the while 
not respecting the original material. They 
have centered the film around a character 
who was gifted all the power of the galaxy with none of the struggles. They have 
managed to shoot themselves in the foot with 
one the biggest plot stretches with Emperor 
Palpatine coming back. All of this, yet I still 
want to see Disney succeed. I don’t want to 
see Disney succeed as a company, but rather 
to not see “Star W ars” die. Disney could care less if one franchise fails as they rule most of 
the entertainment industry. However, “Star 
W ars” is too beloved of a franchise to see it go out like this. I know Disney can do a 
better job for “Star W ars, ” as they have all 
the resources in the world to do so. “The Rise of Skywalker” is their last chance to do 
something great with this saga before it all 
comes crumbling down on them, and despite 
everything I have said in this article, I still 
have hope. 
— Hector Arrieta
Contributing WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL COMICSPHOTO COURTESY OF MARVEL COMICS
THINK PIECE
PHOTO COURTESY OF GAMES RADARPHOTO COURTESY OF GAMES RADARA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
“Ford v Ferrari” manages 
to strike the perfect balance 
between octane-fueled fun and 
a compelling story about a team who fought their hardest against the odds.
Steve Lacy goes above and beyond in his performance at The Observatory 
North Park as he rede fines what concerts are capable of representing.
“Thank you guys for supporting 
my album. And for those who 
hate the album, that’s okay too. 
I still have your money, ” Steve Lacy joked to 
a laughing crowd in between songs off of his 
latest album “ Apollo XXI. ” 
“Y our album sucks, ” a voice humorously 
shouted in jest from the crowd, drawing out 
warm smiles and happy chuckles from both 
the audience and Lacy himself.
“I love you too, ” Lacy replied. 
Steve Lacy’s show felt exceptionally 
intimate as hundreds of bodies crowded around a stage and actively interacted with 
playful remarks made by the artist. This kind 
of interaction between performers and their fans at shows is not a unique occurrence, 
and Lacy’s engagement with his audience 
through light-hearted jokes and comments is 
not exclusive to him. However, the measures 
Lacy took to ensure that the entire arena 
felt fully connected to both him and his 
music felt particularly touching. Lacy is notably outspoken against the use of phones 
at his shows, and the amount of respect that 
the audience had forto respect his wishes 
toand simply enjoy the moment left me 
overwhelmed,  to say the least. Although I 
believe there is nothing inherently wrong 
with using your phone to record a moment in 
time, the absence of screens is something that 
I rarely ever experience at shows. Everybody in that room was completely hypnotized 
without any outside distractions. Us. Him. 
A room full of people singing their hearts 
out and connecting over music. This was the 
purest possible bond that an artist and his 
listeners could be capable of having. That was 
all that was there. That was all that mattered. 
Lacy’s set felt refreshingly distinct from 
the direction that most performers turn to when they rearrange their songs. He decided 
to do something that is not entirely common 
in the music industry — he performed his 
entire album from start to finish. Typically, 
artists use their most recent album for promo and then name their tour accordingly to the 
title of their latest project. On these tours, 
performers tend to play a few songs off 
of their new album, but mix it alongside previous hits and other favorite tracks. Lacy 
playing his entire album in order without 
any skips came as a shocking but welcome 
surprise. There was a sense of familiarity in hearing the album being played, but the live 
aspect of the show completely changed the 
listening experience. His live show was much 
like hearing “ Apollo XXI” in your bedroom 
for the first time because there was such a 
strong sense of intimacy to within being able 
to hear an entire album — the entirety of a project someone has put their heart into 
creating and perfecting — without any skips. 
Artists painstakingly place their songs in the 
order in which they believe will make the 
most sense, and this purposeful arrangement is essential to fully understanding any album. 
This element of his album was not taken 
away from his show, and so the experience 
of being able to hear an entire live album live 
was truly unforgettable. 
Steve Lacy began with “Only If, ” the first 
track off of his debut album “ Apollo XXI, ” and tirelessly performed every song from 
the tracklist right after each other. Although 
it was the first track Lacy performed, the 
room immediately filled with loud voices 
starting from the first verse as hundreds of 
fans yelled along in unison to the lyrics of 
this self-healing song. Every single song gave 
off a different vibe and evoked contrasting 
reactions from the audience. “Like Me” helped us feel a little less alone in the world and gave 
us a connecting hand to hold onto. The 
peak of the show occurred during “Basement 
Jack, ” where everybody in the crowd started 
to enthusiastically jump around and mosh 
as soon as the first few iconic chords played 
over the speakers. Shoulders slammed into shoulders and feet squashed the neighboring 
shoes of neighboring feet as the beat vibrated 
through the air. For the entire song, the 
floor was a ceaseless eruption of roars and 
laughs as stress melted away to a fun bassline. 
“ Amandla’s Interlude” was a beautiful 
instrumental piece near the end of the album that slowly brought down the energy of the 
room and made everyone collectively sway 
eyes-closed to the soft melody. 
Steve Lacy is bigger than his music. He exudes confidence and self-expression in a manner that is inspirational to his listeners, 
and has become a symbol of unapologetic 
free expression. In that small venue with my 
body pressed against other kids who found solace within his music, I was reminded of 
who I was and who I could become. 
— Eric Chun
Staff WriterIn an age where car films have become synonymous with 
explosions and high-risk 
stunts, it’s refreshing to watch a film 
that focuses on what automotive 
films should be about: cars. “Ford v 
Ferrari” tells the incredible story of 
American racing and automotive 
design legend Carroll Shelby (Matt 
Damon) and automotive racing 
legend Ken Miles (Christian Bale) 
as they partner with Ford to take on Ferrari at the 1966 24 Hours of 
Le Mans.
The 1960s saw one of, if not 
the worst, economic slumps in 
Ford’s then-short history. People 
were losing interest in the boring 
everyday cars coming off the production lines, opting for the 
more sporty Chevrolet Impalas and 
Chevelles of the time. In an effort to 
rejuvenate the brand and bring back 
consumer attention, Lee Iaococca 
pitched a radical idea to Henry 
Ford II: — jump into the racing game. With no prior experience in 
the racing circuits, Ford decided 
to buy a small company famous 
for racing, who just so happened 
to be down on their luck. Who 
was this company? Ferrari. Upon 
learning that Ford would not let him race the Ferrari brand, were 
they to close the deal, Enzo Ferrari 
sternly rejected their proposal. And 
so began the war between Ford and 
Ferrari.
Ford approached Carroll Shelby 
to help pilot their new racing program. Shelby was , famous 
not only famous for designing the 
now- infamous Shelby Cobra, but 
for being the first Aamerican driver 
to win the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 1959, to help pilot their new racing 
program. Shelby then enlisteds 
the help of Ken Miles, a British 
mechanic and racer living in the 
Los Angeles area, and off to the 
races they wentgo.
“Ford vV Ferrari” crafts a 
compelling story about two men with a shared passion for speed 
and their journey to make the 
best race car in the world as they 
face corporate interference and 
internal pressures. Director James 
Mangold has created a story that combines auto fanatics’ passion 
for cars, while still being accessible 
to a more general audience. Ken 
Miles’s passion for the building of 
this race car doesn’t come across as 
forced or superficial. The audience 
truly believes that Bale is playing a character that genuinely knows cars. Bale’s portrayal of Ken Miles 
leaves the audience with a sense 
of giddiness as he blazes down the 
straightawaysstraitaways, sharing 
the joy and excitement of every 
downshift. Miles’s love and care 
for his son is a nice touch as well. We’re given glimpses into their 
close relationship as Peter Miles 
, played by (Noah Jupe), follows 
his father with wide eyes from the 
local races of LA to the biggest 
race in the world. It’s clear that 
both Shelby and Ken Miles are men with flaws. Shelby has a hard time 
delegating and MilesKen has a hard 
time finding balance. MilesKen’s 
relationship with his wife is 
continually tested, as he struggles 
to keep his love for racing from 
wrecking his marriage. 
The film tells the story of two men, who for better or for worse, 
cannot stay away from racing; 
Damon and Bale’s characters 
both have this unbridled fire for 
what they do, and it’s portrayed 
extremely well. Damon’s cool-
headed Carroll Shelby juxtaposes very well with Bale’s hot-headed 
and fiery Ken Miles. At a glance, 
the two characters look as if they 
wouldn’t fit well together, but it soon 
becomes apparent that they are 
yin and yang. Miles pushes Shelby 
to take risks, while Shelby pulls Mileshim back from becoming a 
risk to everything they’ve worked 
so hard for. 
Through every downshift, 
every corner, and every lap, “Ford 
v Ferrari” will have audiences 
gripping their seats. It dives into the dirty of the corporate world, and what can happen when corporate interests intermingle with the passions of people whose whole 
world is cars. It’s clear that this 
film’s biggest and most important 
characters are the cars; it doesn’t 
simply use them as a plot device or 
object to propel the story forward. 
The Ford GT-40s and the Ferraris interact with Ken Miles and Carroll 
Shelby as any other character in 
the film would as if, they have their 
own distinct personalities. This 
film is not just any car film — it’s 
a love letter to cars and to those 
who invest everything they have into them.
— ELias Roman
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
Ford V FerarriFord V Ferarri
Director  James Mangold
Starring  Matt Damon, Christian Bale, Caitriona Balfe, Jon Bernthal
Release Date Nov. 15, 2019
Rated  PG-13CB+
CONCERT   REVIEWPHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY TRAN, NBC 7 PHOTO COURTESY OF ANDY TRAN, NBC 7 
Steve LacySteve Lacy
Location   The Observatory North Park
Concert Date  Oct. 29, 2019A-PHOTO COURTESY OF MERRICK MORTON, TWENTIETH CENTURY FOXPHOTO COURTESY OF MERRICK MORTON, TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
FALL 2019
to.ucsd.edu
TRITON OUTFITTERS LA JOLLA DREAMS
SHOP NOW • to.ucsd.edu3 Habits for a Healthy Lifestyle
by Tori Anderson, Contributing Lifestyle Writer
Between school, work, and student 
organizations, life as a college student can 
be a bit overwhelming. It may seem like you can’t get a grip on your life and are barely afloat, but I have some news for you. Y ou can take hold of your life and change those negative patterns and mindsets to 
one that prioritizes yourself. When you 
prioritize yourself, everything else falls together. These habits may seem obvious and you may already be practicing them but maybe not so efficiently. Incorporating these habits into your lifestyle and making 
them a part of your daily routine will create 
a reduction in your stress levels and a change in your mental and physical states. Y ou should first get the basics down and then progress, because there is no quick fix to health and fitness. Taking care of your mental state will make it easier to maintain  a healthy lifestyle. 
Habit One: Write Out Y our Schedule
The first one seems obvious but isn’t 
often executed properly for individuals, leading  to an increase of stress,  lack of sleep, or mood swings. So, create a schedule. Get a planner and write each day out. Y ou may even need to do this by the hour depending on how busy your schedule is. Next, copy what you have written down into your notes and reminders on your phone so your schedule is always accessible and you have reminders to keep you on track. Although this seems like it will not give you as much “free time” as you want, in the grand scheme of things, it will save you from stress and mental breakdowns. Creating a routine  helps you prioritize what is truly important and aligns your mindset to your goals. Habit Two: Create a Sleep Schedule
The second is creating a sleep schedule. 
I know this may be hard because each day changes, but it could aligns with your scheduled out days/routine. Compared to your current sleep schedule, if you went to bed one hour earlier and woke up one 
hour earlier, it would  give you that extra 
hour you wished you had. Waking up early reduces stress levels, helps with success, and stabilizes your emotions and mindset. In the article “The Scientific Argument for Waking Up Early, ” Stanford Psychologist 
BJ Fogg states that “willpower is not how 
you build good habits. Instead, you need to design your environment and life for them. Y ou need to get small wins every single day, which stack on top of each other. ” Alter your “no time” mindset to a prioritized mindset. 
Habit Three: Alter Y our Mindset
The last habit, altering your mindset, 
is what stabilizes the change to a healthier lifestyle. This is the overall habit that will truly make any other habit stick. Essentially, if you get out of that negative mindset to a focused mindset, you will realize how much time you waste on unnecessary things. “Reset, readjust, restart, refocus as many times as you need to” is one of my favorite quotes because there is no pressure on getting it right the first time. Changing your lifestyle is hard and you might fail, but as long as you keep resetting , you will get a hold of it. By readjusting your mindset, it will essentially give you more free time to study, do homework, workout, nap, and then relax and watch TV . I personally schedule out my whole day by the hour and designate timeframes for naps, workouts, and leisure time. Whenever I stray away 
from the schedule, I fall into this pit of 
doing nothing and it induces my stress, making me either lose sleep or put me behind. That is why it is important to have this altered mindset stick. 
This all leads to the underlying theme: 
time management. Time management is so important because it will create schedules that will have extra time that you didn’t realize exists. Create the life you want. Take life by the horns and control it. Save yourself from the mental breakdowns, anxiety attacks, spent money, and wasted time and have that healthier lifestyle mentally and 
physically. Y our mental health should be 
the main priority, so do yourself a favor and do anything that can benefit it. Y ou only have one body, so treat it kindly.
ILLUSTRATION BY LARS LEETARU, NEW YORK TIMESILLUSTRATION BY LARS LEETARU, NEW YORK TIMESLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Easy Meals for Students Who Can’t Cook 
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
Cooking for myself has been one of the 
hardest parts of living independently, especially 
when I’m spending 10-hour days on campus and the last thing I want to do is spend time at the stove when I get home. Over the last year 
and a half, I’ve found that meal prepping and 
making sure I have certain staples in the fridge 
and pantry, like bananas, rice, bread, eggs, and 
spinach, are the best ways to make sure I’m always fed. 
If you’re like me and you identify as someone 
who “can’t really cook, ” here are some easy and healthy-ish meals to prepare that I always fall 
back on when I’m in a bind. 
For Breakfast
Avocado Toast
A tried and true classic. I always buy the 
“Teeny Tiny Avocados” pack from Trader Joe’s 
— one avocado is the perfect size for a piece of bread. Top with salt, pepper, and a fried egg, and you’ve got your carbs, protein, and good fats all in one bite.  
Banana & Peanut Butter Toast
This one doesn’t need much of an 
explanation. If you’re not the biggest peanut butter fan, swap it out for some almond or hazelnut butter instead. Drizzle on honey if you want some more sweetness! 
For Lunch
Omelet
An omelet was one of the first things I 
learned how to make. It’s super easy and one of those things you can build and add on. Throw on some spinach, mushrooms, and cheese for a balanced lunch on the go — if you don’t feel confident in your omelet-flipping abilities, feel free to turn it into a scramble instead. Fried Rice 
This dish is filling and customizable! I use 
brown rice to try to be a little healthier, and I put mushrooms, zucchini squash, spinach, eggs, and chicken in mine. If you want to make 
it even easier, you can buy the frozen bags of 
peas, carrots, and green beans, and just throw 
them in!
For Dinner
Soba Soup
Making your own soup may seem a little 
daunting, but it tastes so much better than 
the canned version. Y ou can cheat a little by 
buying broth at the store, and simmer some aromatics in it for a while to give it more depth. What’s great about soup is that it’s a “set it and forget it” situation: Dump everything you want — mushrooms, bok choy, garlic, ginger, onion, and chicken — into a pot and let it simmer while you do your homework. Add your noodles 30 minutes later, and you’re ready to combat cold winter nights with a hot 
bowl of soup. 
Roasted Veggies 
This one is great because you can use any 
seasonal vegetables that are at the store; my 
favorite combination in the fall is butternut squash and cauliflower. All you have to do is cut them up, place on a sheet tray, drizzle with olive oil and add any spices you like (salt, 
pepper, Italian seasoning, etc) before popping 
them into the oven. ILLUSTRATION BY MIGUEL PORLAN, NEW YORK TIMESILLUSTRATION BY MIGUEL PORLAN, NEW YORK TIMES12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  N O V E M B E R  1 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
2 FREE LYFT RIDESAlternatives to Secret Santa
by Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
COURTESY OF THINKSTOCKCOURTESY OF THINKSTOCK Christmas is only a month and a week 
away and the season of gift exchanges is 
upon us. Don’t get me wrong, I love the classic Secret Santa — it’s the perfect way to make certain that everyone will get at least 
one quality gift — but I am participating in 
three or four rounds of it this year across my 
different organizations. So, here are some 
ideas for different gift exchange games if you’ d like to spice it up this holiday.
Stocking Stuffers
If the group is small enough, you can 
give stockings to everyone; if the group is larger, pull names like Secret Santa. The only difference is that you’re confined to buying things that will fit inside a stocking. Y ou can even define a theme, like self-care or movie night, that all the items have to center around.
Hot Potato
Make sure your presents are tightly 
wrapped for this one! Gather your group into a circle, put on some Christmas bops, and throw the gift from person to person like a hot potato until the music stops. Continue until everyone has a present! 
Mug Exchange 
Y ou can never have too many mugs. 
Have everyone come with a mug, or, if you 
have enough time, buy some plain mugs 
and hold a decorating party, where people are free to draw or write anything they wish on said mug. Then, assign a number to each mug and have each person pull a number out of a hat. Y ou’ll all have new receptacles for hot chocolate in no time. Scavenger Hunt
This one is especially fun if you have 
young kids in your family. Hide gifts around the house and offer some clues to where the gifts are hiding. If you have multiple clues, 
you’ll keep the children entertained long 
enough to watch Love Actually in peace. 
Cocktail Swap
Give the gift of Christmas spirits. For 
the 21+ crowd, fill a bag with the items used to make a specific cocktail (like vodka, ginger beer, and lime for a Moscow Mule, 
or rum, sugar, a lime, soda water, and mint 
for a Mojito) and exchange the bags at your holiday party. 
Cookie Tins
This one is for all the bakers out there: 
everyone comes with a batch of their favorite homemade cookie recipe and Tupperware or a cute cookie tin, if you have one! Pass the cookies around and take a few cookies 
from everyone else’s batches, leaving you 
with a full, varied cookie tin CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
THE LOFT PRESENTS  GINGEENOVEMBER 213 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
FLASH FITNESS WITH BRANDON - 
RIMAC STRETCHING AREA
Empower your fitness in a flash (only 20 
minutes!) with Brandon on Tuesdays at 11am in RIMAC. Walk in basis, FREE, located in at the RIMAC stretching areas. topics include: 10/29/19 SINGLE LEG EXERCISES 11/5/19 COMPLETE CORE 11/12/19 SHOULDER PAIN 101 11/19/19 THE KETTLEBELL SWING 11/26/19 THE PERFECT DEADLIFT & SQUAT
12:30pm
INTERVIEWING ACROSS CULTURE - 
CAREER CENTER - HORIZON ROOM
Do you want some interview experience? Do you 
want to learn about interview culture in America? Join Outreach & the Career Center for an interview workshop specifically catered towards international students to learn about tips and tricks for that perfect interview. RSVP now to secure your spot! https://forms.gle/49HS28eLqFb5649MA
3:30pm
CAMPUS TO CAREER: HOW TO 
PITCH YOUR STRENGTHS AND 
STRIKE A JOB - THE ZONE IN PC 
PLAZA NEXT TO JAMBA JUICE
It can be hard to build connections with 
professionals in your field. How do you break the 
Networking ice? Come out to solidify your 
standout elevator pitch and professional email and phone skills! Make sure future employers, professors, and professionals will know who you are and what makes you a strong candidate. Presented by the Academic Internship Program. 
7:30pm
CAMBODIAN ROCK BAND - LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE, SHEILA AND 
HUGHES POTIKER THEATRE
Dubbed fierce, gorgeous and heartwarming by 
the Los Angeles Times, this epic play/rock concert thrusts us into the life of a young woman trying to piece together her family history thirty years after her father fled Cambodia. Featuring a cast that performs a mix of contemporary Dengue Fever hits and classic Cambodian oldies, playwright and UC San Diego alum Lauren Yee brings to vivid life the Cambodian rock scene of the 60s and 70s, a movement cut short by the Khmer Rouges brutal attempt to erase the music (and musicians) once and for all. A story about survivors, the resilient bond of family and the enduring power of music.!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(10am
GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
(GAS ) - LIBRARY WALK
The Great American Smokeout (GAS) is an 
annual nationwide campaign put on by the American Cancer Society dedicated to helping people towards a smoke-free life. It starts with asking people to stop smoking for one day and emphasizes that if they can stop smoking for a day, then why not a lifetime? SHA helps with this event every year which will take place on November 21st, 2019.
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about our experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact: Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or catthompson@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
MAN IN LOVE - WEISS THEATER
Midwestern Metropolis during the Great Depression is severely segregated. If you're from 'The Spread' you are trying to survive another eviction notice, soup line, or night on the street. If you're from the segregated Black area called 'The Zoo' you are literally fighting for your life. The bodies of Black women are turning up dead all over the city. It's not even safe to stay inside. Christina Anderson's play Man in Love is about race, love, and terror, all living side by side.TUE11.19
THU11.21MON11.18
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcome! Yoga Mats are provided! 
Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
10am
DESTRESS MONDAY - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
DeStress Mondays....ahhh, Mondays.... Mondays 
can be stressful, so start your week on a high note 
with FREE tea and snacks! Come destress with us 
EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Time: 10:00 AM 
to 1:00 PM Location: Price Center Commuter 
Lounge FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID
4pm
$500 STUDENT GRANTS FOR 
COURSES AND/OR TEST 
PREPARATION AT UCSD EXTENSION 
- UC SAN DIEGO EXTENSION
We are committed to enhancing the UC San Diego 
student experience by providing opportunities to 
enroll in UC San Diego Extension and Test 
Preparation courses at little or no cost. In 
partnership with the University, UC San Diego 
Extension offers a limited amount of student 
grant funds to full-time UC San Diego students. 
Each grant is good for up to $500 off of one 
Extension course and/or one test preparation 
course and you are responsible for paying 
anything over the grant amount at the time of 
enrollment. Applications for winter available 
November 18 22, 2019.
6pm
8-BALL DOUBLES TOURNAMENT - 
PRICE CENTER GAMEROOM
University Centers Presents: 8-Ball Doubles 
Tournament Date: Friday, November 22 Check-In: 6PM // Games: 6:30PM Location: Price Center Gameroom FREE for UCSD Students w/ID Have you mastered playing 8-Ball on your phone? Here's your CUE to show off your skills in real life! Take a BREAK from studying, and come out to our 8-Ball Doubles Tournament! This is your SHOT to win big! --> TOP 3 TEAMS WIN A PRIZE <--
7:30pm
MAN IN LOVE - WEISS THEATER
The bodies of Black women are turning up dead all over the city. It's not even safe to stay inside. Christina Anderson's play Man in Love is about race, love, and terror, all living side by side.FRI11.22WED11.20The Loft at Price Center
1pm
TRUE COLORS - BEAR ROOM
This workshop is a fun and interactive activity that will provide participants insight of their individual personality Color(s) and how to best utilize their strengths and opportunities when collaborating with others to achieve a goal.
2pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN, DE -STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management. Come to The Zone for a one-on-one Biofeedback demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. And if you have time, get a free de-stress massage from the R&R Squad too! Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs!
2pm
PARTY IDEAS - RED SHOE ROOM
Learn about party safety, alcohol and other drugs, and bystander intervention in preparation for campus parties and social events. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
NOVEMBER DEMOCRATIC 
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE 
WATCHING - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Join the Krinsk-Houston Law & Politics 
Initiative as we host a November Democratic Presidential Debate watching party. We have rented out the Price Center Theater and will be live-streaming the event. Refreshments will be provided so please RSVP using the link so that we may order enough: https://ucsdsocialsciences.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_78wO6gGADZQfzyB
5:15pm
SPIRIT ART RECEPTION - CROSS 
CULTURAL CENTER ART SPACE
Introducing SPIRIT: a reception highlighting 
the art & craft of Carmen Linares-Kalo, a muralist/artist, fourth-generation spiritualist and practitioner of the Uto Nahua Mexica/Aztec traditions. Carmen's work centers oral traditions and healing arts of native folks of Mexico. The healing arts include songs, flower, herbal and feather working, poetry, painting and mural production. These ancient teachings offer preservation of the sacred traditions through blessings and help to keep a spiritual balance with the material world. Come through to hear more about her work and observe her art & mural! Some artwork along with prints and crafts will also be available for retail. Light refreshments provided!
7:30pm
MAN IN LOVE - WEISS THEATER
Midwestern Metropolis during the Great Depression is severely segregated. If you're from 'The Spread' you are trying to survive another eviction notice, soup line, or night on the street. If you're from the segregated Black area called 'The Zoo' you are literally fighting for your life. The bodies of Black women are turning up dead all over the city. It's not even safe to stay inside. Christina Anderson's play Man in Love is about race, love, and terror, all living side by side.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
NOV 18 - NOV 24
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CANDY BARSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Cattle mover
5. Goes bad9. Hatfield’s foe
14. Crescent shape
15. ‘’Hear no ___, speak no . . . ’’
16. Ray blocker17. Cruising18. Muscularity
19. Three-legged and drag
20. First course at the prison?
23. Start for day24. 16 1/2 feet25. Not all there
28. Australia’s national blossom
30. Trail
32. Type of hold33. Like Christmas shopping35. Asian capital
37. Second dinner course at the prison?
40. Potato unit
41. Become more complicated42. Time of the 75th meridian43. Part of FYI44. Appeased thirst48. SAT taker51. Pussycat’s partner52. Chef’s phrase53. Dessert course at the prison?57. Range59. Lo-fat60. Hurt expression61. Male seal’s devotees62. Modern summons63. The first chip, usually64. It could be on the board65. Takes into a count?66. Bonnie bairnDOWN
1. Vein filler2. Log cabinish3. Lake in upstate New York
4. Highly valued
5. Act in opposition
6. Out of round7. Antler point8. Rosebud, famously
9. Dummkopf
10. Autocrats
11. Crested bird12. It’s ‘’for the money’’13. Da, somewhere
21. Joey or Ross, e.g.
22. Snowball, famously
26. It’s not always proper27. Sniggler’s catch29. Pull up to the bar
30. He’s in for good
31. Coyote’s company of choice
34. List heading35. Blanche’s sister36. It’s active in Sicily37. San ___, Calif.38. Leave your opponent with love?39. Old hairdos40. Term of endearment43. Swampy land45. Hawaiian medicine man46. Sends to Washington47. Track events49. Narrow50. Foe51. Was decisive54. Corsica neighbor55. Conked out, as a car56. Scuttle’s contents57. Petal-plucker’s word58. Part of a rotating shaftINTERNSHIPS
Entry Level Teacher (K-12) - As a Teach 
For America Corps Member, you will have the privileged and unique opportunity to inspire and impact the education of young children by serv -
ing in a full-time salaried teacher in a low-income community within the US. Each year, thousands of diverse leaders across the country, from Graduating College Seniors across all majors to Experienced Professionals from both the public and private sec -
tor and across all ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Systems Engineer-Sustainment Data 
Quality and Integration Management - The selected candidate will be a member of a high-performing team supporting F35 Data Quality and Integration Management (DQIM) and will be responsible for providing technical Engineering knowledge and skills supporting F-35 Sustainment Data Product Integration &amp; Delivery (SDP I&amp;D). The candi -
date must be self-motivated with a strong work ethic, time-management, and interpersonal skills. The successful candidate ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds for more information
Sales Management Trainee - The 
Opportunity: Help families in your community while working in a lucra-tive industry. The roofing repair indus-try enjoys consistent, rapid growth due to annual storms and expanding residential sprawl that create bigger targets for severe weather. You could earn six figures while helping home -
owners recover from storm damage. Premier Roofing Company provides an award-winning Sales Management Training program. We offer quality products and services to homeowners ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS 
2015 Ford F150 Platinum - 2015 Ford F-150, 4D SuperCrew, White Platinum 
Metallic Tri-Coat 2015 Ford F-150 Platinum 4WD 6-Speed Automatic 
Electronic EcoBoost 3.5L V6 GTDi 
DOHC 24V Twin Turbocharged 
EcoBoost 3.5L V6 GTDi DOHC 24V Twin 
Turbocharged, 4WD, White Platinum 
Metallic Tri-Coat, ABS brakes, Adaptive Cruise Control & Collision Warning, 
Alloy wheels, Compass, Electronic 
Stability Control, Equipment Group 
701A Luxury, Front dual zone A/C, 
Heated door mirrors….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Chevrolet Cruze 2LT Auto 2LT 
Auto 4der Sedan - Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax 
it is! Our set prices mean youll never 
have to haggle and you can concen-
trate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day 
Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day 
Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT and 
MN; 90-Day in MA, NY, and NJ). See our store for written information, and visit carmax.com….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2012 Honda Pilot EX-L Ex-L 4dr SUV - 
Car shopping should be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our set prices mean youll never have to haggle and you can concentrate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty (60-Day in CT and MN; 90-Day in MA, NY, and NJ). See our store for written info, and visit carmax.com to this and thousands ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
Motobecane Mirage Road Bike, Carbon Fork - Superb condition, Like New, always garaged. $290.00 or best offer2015 FEATURES:54cm - 5’8” to 5’10”NEW Semi-Compact FrameNEW Shimano STI DrivetrainALUMINUM BRAKE CALIPERSSHIMANO FRONT + REAR DERAILLEURALUMINUM ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Litespeed C3 Ultegra M(54cm) - 
Litespeed C3 Ultegra M(54cm) 2011.http://www.litespeed.com/bike.asp?content=c3-ultegra.RATE = $1550 OBO.Perfect competing disor -
der.Pedals not featured.Minor paint chip on appropriate side as shown in close-up picture.Serious inquiries….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Vintage 1950 Women’s Beach Cruiser 
26” Columbia Bicycle - I am regretfully lastly ready to let go of my really 1st vintage bicycle, a Womens / Girls 1950 (serial number matches 1950 precisely !!) Columbia 26” Five Star Superb. I purchased it about a decade back, and at the time it was a rust bucket !! We did an overhaul of the bicycle and cleaned/greased everything. The bicycle was sanded down and com -
pletely repainted with a custom-made professional paint task (Blue pearl / white combination). We had the gear, handlebars, and some….  ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself with
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
The UC San Diego men’s soccer 
team ended their California 
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament run early on Friday, Nov. 15 in a 1–0 loss in the 
semifinals to the California State 
Polytechnic University Pomona 
Broncos. 
It did not take long for the 
Broncos to get on the scoreboard. Within the first three minutes, 
Cal Poly Pomona found the back of the net, putting the Tritons in an early 1–0 de ficit. Though 
there were over 80 minutes le ft in 
regulation, UCSD was never able 
to climb out of that hole.
In a post-game press 
conference, UCSD head coach 
Jon Pascale gave a lot of credit to Cal Poly Pomona for an 
impressive performance. “It was 
two good teams going head-to-head and I give credit to Pomona. They are a very good group and 
had some really good moments 
in the game, especially in the first 
half. ” 
Though he was disappointed 
with the loss, Pascale was proud 
of the resilience his team showed. “Obviously, I’m not thrilled with the result, but I am happy 
with the response our team had 
throughout the game and the effort [they] put in. I thought 
through large stretches we were on them, at them, and had them 
penned in a little bit, and against 
that team that’s not easy to do. ”
The tournament got o ff to a promising start for UCSD with a 4–2 victory against its first-round 
opponent the San Francisco State University Gators. The 
Tritons and Gators exchanged 
goals early in the game, leading 
to a 2–2 tie with a little over 
70 minutes left to play. Junior forward Brett Jones got o ff to a 
hot start, providing the Tritons with their first two points to keep 
the game tight. The teams stayed 
deadlocked until in the 61st minute, junior forward Jonathan Sabouri found the back of the net off a pass by freshman mid fielder 
Cooper Lachenbruch to put the Tritons on top, 3–2. Lachenbruch would follow up his key assist with an unassisted score of his own in the 67th minute. With 
that, UCSD was able to hold o ff 
SFSU to take the game 4–2 and 
advance to the next round of the tournament.
With their elimination from 
the tournament, the 2019 UCSD 
men’s soccer team’s season comes 
to a close. The Tritons end with a 
15–4 overall record with 8–3 in 
conference play.
Men’s Soccer’s ends season with loss 
to rival Cal Poly Pomona
wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF MIKE MCGINNISPHOTO COURTESY OF MIKE MCGINNIS16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Sonoma State (CCAA)
vs. Cal State San Marcosvs. Point Loma NazareneNCAA DII West Regionals (vs TBD)UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball 
W Basketball
M Basketball
W Soccer12 PM
5:30 PM
7 PM
TBD11/2111/2111/1911/21
In a nail-biting defensive 
stando ff, the No. 2 UC San Diego’s 
women’s soccer team snatched a 
1–0 California Collegiate Athletic Association semi final victory 
over the No. 22 California State Polytechnic University Pomona Broncos on Friday with an overtime goal from sophomore midfielder Christina Oddone 
in the 109th minute. The win 
set up a Sunday CCAA finals 
matchup with No. 10 Sonoma State University — the only team to have beaten UCSD this season.
The semi final win was 
impressive considering how smoothly things were going for the Broncos of late. UCSD had already defeated Cal Poly Pomona once in the season, in a 1–0 home win on Oct. 4. However, the Broncos hadn’t lost a match since, including a 3–1 win over California State University, Los Angeles this past Tuesday to secure their place in this semi final. The Tritons, 
meanwhile, were coming o ff 13 
days of rest since a 2–1 overtime win over the same CSULA squad.
Throughout the match, UCSD 
generated far more chances than the Broncos, but couldn’t find 
the back of the net. In the 35th minute, sophomore defender and mid fielder Ashlynn Kolarik 
crossed the ball into the box to freshman defender Erika Braun, but the pass was behind Braun and all she could manage was a weak volley o ff her extended le ft 
foot. But UCSD immediately regained possession, and Kolarik sent another cross into the box that sophomore mid fielder Emily 
Killeen sent into the le ft post, 
inches from the net. The second half again featured 
many unconverted UCSD chances. In the 70th minute, Kolarik delivered a cross to the far post where Braun rocketed a le ft-
footed shot towards the bottom-right corner, but sophomore goalkeeper Sydney Williams of Cal Poly Pomona made a diving save. The end of regulation saw a 
series of corner kicks, including one with four seconds remaining from freshman mid fielder Mika 
Celeste; Celeste found the head of redshirt senior defender Kelsey Kimball, but the attempt 
missed wide right.
The first 10-minute period of 
extra time was mostly uneventful, 
as both teams sought to prevent an opposing goal to end their tournament. Nine minutes into the second overtime, the Tritons finally broke through. Junior 
defender and mid fielder Delaney 
Whittet passed the ball to Killeen at the corner of the penalty area, where she was tackled by a Cal Poly Pomona defender. But no whistle was blown, and Killeen stood back up before crossing the ball to junior mid fielder Michelle 
Baddour, who redirected it to Braun. Braun tapped the ball to Oddone, who stepped right and unleashed a shot that de flected 
off a defender, past Williams, and 
into the bottom-right corner. 
“It happened really fast, ” 
Oddone said a fter the game. 
“Emily [Killeen] worked hard to get the cross o ff, and Michelle 
[Baddour] and I just made the correct runs, and I was lucky enough to get on the end of it. ” 
The home crowd of 434 
erupted, and the Triton bench 
streamed onto the field in celebration as their spot in the 
finals was assured.
Despite the close result, the 
Tritons were much better on the offensive end, with 17 shots 
to the Broncos’ 7, and 6 corner 
kicks to the Broncos’ zero. A fter 
the match, UCSD’s head coach 
Kristin Jones said, “It was an incredible game, which we knew was going to happen … It was a fast-paced game, and it was dynamic. I thought we controlled most of the tempo. ”
The Tritons face the Sonoma 
State Seawolves on Sunday, having lost their last matchup on the road on Oct. 25 — but the extra minutes from Friday’s 
match pose a challenge.
“Defensively, that was one of 
our best games of our season, and 
we’re going to need to have that again against a tough opponent in Sonoma, ” Jones said. “ A lot of our players played a lot of minutes, so there’s going to be fresh faces that step up on Sunday and do the same job. ”
The finals game ended a fter the 
Guardian’s publication deadline. For an updated recap, visit http://
ucsdguardian.org/category/
sports/
Women’s Soccer Headed to 
CCAA Finals with Overtime Win
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKANPHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSKAN
It’s been 18 days since the 
Houston Astros lost to the 
Washington Nationals in Game 7 of the 2019 World Series. In that time, the Nationals had their parade in Washington D.C. and a small contingent visited President Trump. And yet, baseball is still in the news. In fact, the losing team has been all over the media over the last week. 
If you’ve missed it, the Astros 
have been accused of using technology to steal signs from their opponents during the 
2017 MLB season during both 
the regular season and the postseason. They won the World 
Series this season over the Los Angeles Dodgers, infuriating their fans. 
With each passing day, more 
and more damning evidence comes out against Houston. Former players are exposing the team’s practices, and players who competed against them are taking to Twitter to assert that they felt like something was suspicious that season too.
While this certainly serves 
to give the Astros’ franchise yet another black eye (remember their bout with female reporters and domestic violence less than a month ago?), the Astros are not the only team that has been wrapped up in this scandal. 
Yu Darvish, arguably the pitcher 
most a ffected by the Astros’ 
cheating, has been the face of the forgiveness movement, though his opinions seem to be a little contradictory to say that least. After telling Dylan Hernandez 
of the Los Angeles Times that he forgave and respected the Astros organization, he took to Twitter to call out the 2018 National League MVP and his 
Milwaukee Brewers teammates 
for potentially stealing signs from Darvish.
No matter where you stand 
on the Astros cheating scandal, you certainly agree that cheating is bad for baseball, and is bad for sports in general. You either think that the Astros should not have cheated because cheating is wrong, or you’re angry that people would accuse your team of cheating because of the negative connotation surrounding that accusation. 
Cheating is something you’re 
taught not to do from the first 
time you begin to have social interactions with people. It’s right up there with lying as one of the first moral teachings you’re 
given. In baseball especially, cheating has been a hot topic for years. First, it was spitballs and throwing games for gamblers; then it was pine tar and steroids; now it involves stealing trade secrets (this time the Astros were the victims) and stealing signs using technology. 
For me, I hate to see cheating 
in sports. However, the two seem inseparable. 
As long as cheating goes 
relatively unpunished, and as 
long as its bene fits mean that the 
benefactors have the chance to 
make millions and millions of dollars, it is unlikely to ever stop. 
The MLB, and professional 
sports leagues in general, have seen their revenues soar over the past decade. This has led to 
record-breaking contracts and ever-increasing salary caps and luxury tax penalties. Multi-billion dollar television contracts have allowed for teams to spend millions on players that aren’t even playing that season. 
As long as professional sports 
are lucrative industries, there will be an incentive to cheat, because cheating will lead to millions of dollars, even if it has the potential to ruin reputations and end careers. Capitalized versions of sports, a set of children’s games, have led to the creation of massive communities of fans that have in turn led to monetized versions of collegiate sports as well, thanks to recent legislation set in motion by California. 
While paying collegiate athletes 
will help correct inequities between the NCAA ’s wealth and the poverty of players, it may also open collegiate athletes up to wanting to cheat even 
more than in the past thanks to 
increased bene fits. Ultimately, 
sports are important drivers of the economy, but as long as this is the case, don’t be surprised when the purity of sports is questioned after cheating scandals are 
exposed because the purity of sports was lost long ago, as much as we try to preserve it.
Triton 
Timeout
Coming To Terms 
with Cheating in 
SportsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu