Housing, Dining, and 
Hospitality recently partnered 
with JUST Inc. to bring a vegan egg alternative to campus. Currently served in Roots, the egg alternative marks UC San Diego’s most recent push into the vegan food industry.
HDH’s partnership with JUST 
began a couple of years ago after they introduced the company’s vegan mayonnaise into several dining halls throughout campus. However, aside from this product, vegan options on campus have been for the most part limited.
According to JUST’s website, 
their vegan egg is made primarily from mung bean, which is a type of legume from Southeast Asia, and turmeric, which gives the egg a similar color to scrambled eggs. The liquid form of the egg, which is a similar consistency to pre-cooked scrambled eggs, provides five grams of protein per serving. Unlike traditional eggs, the JUST egg has zero grams of cholesterol.  
JUST’s Director of Foodservice 
Partnerships Kevin Thorne spoke to the UCSD Guardian about the company’s step into the national university dining market, where UC San Diego alumna Jessica Meir 
joined her colleague Christina Koch in 
the first all-female spacewalk with the 
rest of their Expedition 61crew on Friday, Oct. 
18. Meir and Koch went into space in order to 
repair a failed power unit in the International 
Space Station. The spacewalk commenced at 4:50 p.m. PDT and lasted for seven hours and 17 minutes. 
Meir graduated from the Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography with a doctorate degree in Marine Biology in 2009 and became an 
astronaut through the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration four years later in 
2013. She received her bachelor’s degree in 
biology from Brown University and her masters 
degree in space studies from the International 
Space University. 
NASA posted a blog about their spacewalk. 
The article states that “the two NASA astronauts completed the replacement [of] a failed power 
charging component, also known as a battery 
charge-discharge unit (BCDU). ”
Meir’s and Koch’s crewmembers aboard 
the International Space Station guided the spacewalk, European Space Agency Commander Luca Parmitano operated the robotic arm, and NASA Flight Engineer Andrew Morgan ensured 
the safety of their spacesuits. 
While Meir and Koch took part in the first 
all-female spacewalk, an article by the San 
Diego Union-Tribune reports, “More than 225 people have performed spacewalks since the 
first one was carried out by a Russian in 1965. ”
NASA also reported on the history of 
spacewalks in their blog. “Meir became the 15th woman to spacewalk, and the 14th U.S. woman. 
It was the 43rd spacewalk to include a woman, ” NASA stated. “Women have been performing spacewalks since 1984, when Russian cosmonaut Svetlana Savitskaya spacewalked in July and 
NASA astronaut Kathryn Sullivan spacewalked 
in October. ”
On October 20, Meir tweeted a picture of 
herself in the Spacewalk. “With the support of @NASA_Johnson teams, we replaced the BCDU to bring @Space_Station power back to full capacity, ” Meir tweeted. “We hope Friday’s adventure invigorates the power of all who dare 
to dream!”
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
commented on the alumnus’s spacewalk. “I’ve 
always said UC San Diego alumni are out of 
this world, ” Khosla said, according to an article 
by the SDUT. 
Meir and her colleagues are aboard the 
International Space Station studying the physiological effects of long-term space flight environments, such as the effects on the eye and retina, cardiovascular health, as well as 
protein crystal health in obesity, Alzheimer’s 
and Parkinson’s Disease. “ A six-month mission is even the equivalent of about 20 years of 
aging on the ground, ” Meir said in an article by 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography. 
Their research will serve beneficial for 
NASA ’s Artemis Program. The Program will 
attempt to send a man and woman to the 
Moon’s untouched South Pole by 2024 for a long-term habitation, as well as send the first humans to Mars in the near future. 
Expedition 61 will be in space for six 
months.. The crew launched its mission in late September 2019 and are due to return in March 2020, except for Koch who will stay at the ISS 
for 11 months to study more in-depthly the 
effects of long-term spacelight on the female body.VOLUME 53, ISSUE 5  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 28, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
University Lays the 
Groundwork for New 
Campus Entry Point
The construction will center around the new 
Blue Line Trolley station on west campus
CAMPUS
HDH Dining Halls to Begin Serving New Vegan Egg Alternative
Tritons dominate their element winning the men’s water polo game against Air Force team // Photo by Tanya BharatulaAnnouncing the New Design 
and Innovation Building on 
Friday, Oct. 25, UC San Diego laid out the groundwork to construct a new community entry point for the university. Located on the east side of main campus by Russell and Lyman Lanes, the Pepper Canyon Neighborhood construction project, expected to finish in 2021, will include the aforementioned building as well as an open-air amphitheater and new transfer-student housing. 
The university plans to utilize 
the area’s location as a connection 
point with its planned extension 
complex in Park and Market in downtown San Diego and the local communities in San Ysidro. With the UCSD Blue Line on the under construction light rail, people from throughout San 
Diego will have an easy access 
point to the university. 
“What’s amazing about this 
building is that it will draw in courses and connections with every discipline on campus,” Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth Simmons said in her speech on Friday. “It will draw students into interdisciplinary teams to design, create, and think about how to put out into 
the world, in an entrepreneurial 
fashion, things that address social needs and artistic expression … The building is going to anchor an entire area of campus that is focused on arts and innovation and the student experience. ”
With the UCSD Blue Line, the 
Pepper Canyon Neighborhood is intended to be closely tied with community uplift initiatives 
at the extension. While the 
extension will have many of the similar entrepreneurial opportunities as the Innovation Building, it will also have an additional role of providing education programs on the arts. 
The Innovation Building will 
house the design program at UCSD and become a beacon for the school to attract innovators throughout San Diego. The building will work in conjunction with other entrepreneurial programs on campus like The Basement and The Design Lab. 
“We chose [to promote] a 
design and entrepreneurial mindset and sandwich the maker lab between the two, ” Chancellor Pradeep Khosla said in his speech. “The community 
will have access to this maker 
lab but we’re still working out the structures for this. You can see how programs like these are built to bring the community out By  MADELINE  LEON   
Senior staff writerSTEM
UCSD Alum Included in First All-Female SpacewalkPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
Two of our writers 
go head-to-head 
over whether or not 
the controversial 
music artist is an 
icon within the gay 
community.
POLITICAL  DEBATE
TYLER  THE  CREATORTHE  CAMPUS  EVENT
At  th e  pechan ga  arenaFEATURES,  Page   6
A&E ,   Page  9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"There are quite a 
few players who, 
over the last few 
years, have been 
accused and 
convicted on counts 
of domestic violence 
playing, not just in 
MLB, but also in the 
NFL and the NBA."MONDAY
 H 74 L 53
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 52
TUESDAY
H 71 L 52
THURSDAY
H 74 L 48
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.......2
PARASITE.........................8
COSTUMES....................11
SPOOKY SNACKS..........12
WATER POLO.................16CONSTRUCTION
Jack Dorfman
Triton Timeout
 PAGE 16The new partnership marks UCSD’s latest push for veganism following recent buzz for the diet
BY Jacob sutherland
news editorBY andrew  ha
associate news editorSTAN OR SLAM:
AZEALIA BANKS
Opinion, page 4
See VEGAN,  page 3 See INNOVATION,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Now offering free sexuality lessons.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Sunday, Oct. 20
1:16 a.m. Incomplete/Accidental Wireless 911 - Danica Mae/MahaliaUnknown male asking for help 
and hung up, on callback male 
advised no help needed; possible 
welfare check needed. 
Referred to San Diego Police Department.
2:04 a.m. Possession of 
Marijuana - Village East Building 2Odor of marijuana. Unable to Locate.
10:06 a.m. Noise Disturbance - 
Douglas HallHears beeping noise and a voice recording. Check OK.
1:09 p.m. Citizen Contact - 
UCSD Residential areaCaller reporting a student texting friends with suicidal ideations. Checks OK.
1:10 p.m. Hazard Situation - 
RIMAC FieldReport of aggressive bees. Referred to UCSD.
1:48 p.m. Medical Aid - Genesee 
AvenueCaller reporting friend possibly having a heart attack in vehicle; 
continuing to Scripps Hospital, 
will call back if further assistance needed. Cancelled.
10:40 p.m. Petty Theft - Gilman 
Drive, La JollaLoss $10. Online report.
Monday, Oct. 21
12:58 a.m. Disturbance - Noise - Humanities and Social Science BuildingLarge group of males talking loudly. Checks OK.
10:10 a.m. Theft - Mesa Nueva
Artwork stolen; $1,000 loss. Online report taken.
10:47 a.m. Medical Aid - 
Radiation Oncology Center
Requesting to be transported to hospital. Referred to San Diego Fire Department. Transported to hospital.
8:30 a.m. - 12:47 p.m. Grand 
Theft - Altman Clinical Translational RSUltrasound machine stolen; loss $37,800. Report taken.
2:06 p.m. Animal Call - La Jolla 
Shores BeachInjured seal. Reported to San Diego Lifeguards.
8:21 p.m. Gas Leak - Pangea 
Parking StructureOdor of gas throughout entire floor. Unable to locate.
9:35 p.m. Disturbance - The 
Village WestIndividual being loud, laughing for no reason. Will cooperate.
9:53 p.m. Disturbance - Noise - 
Douglas HallLoud noise heard, possibly skateboard. Checks OK.
Tuesday, Oct. 22
4:01 a.m. Suspicious Person - Lot 310Subject sleeping in vehicle. Will cooperate.
5:45 a.m. Welfare Check - Latin 
America HallParents concerned of student’s welfare since student not in dorm; student spent night at friend’s house. Checks OK.
9:18 a.m. Marijuana Contact - 
Mesa Nueva Building E
Odor of marijuana outside. 
Service provided.
9:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m. Grand 
Theft - Lot 504Backpack containing calculator, laptop stolen from unlocked vehicle; loss $1,820. Report taken.
4:46 p.m. Hazard Situation - 
Engineering Building Unit 3ASharp objects thrown in biohazard containers.5:19 p.m. Citizen Contact - UCSD Police DepartmentRegarding possible fraud letter. Service provided.
7:29 p.m. Petty Theft - V A 
HospitalSubject stole shoes from retail store inside hospital. Unable to locate.
10:43 p.m. Disturbance - Noise - 
The Village WestTrombone being played loudly outside. Unable to locate.
Wednesday, Oct. 23
8:27 a.m. Smoke Check - One 
Miramar BuildingSmoke coming from apartment; no fire. Cancelled.
1:25 p.m. Medical Aid - Main GymMale throwing up in weight room. Service provided.
2:04 p.m. Disturbance - Shiley 
Eye CenterFemale refusing to leave property, causing verbal disturbance; female left area without incident. Service provided.
2:34 p.m. Vehicle Burglary - 
Pangea Parking StructureDriver side window damaged to 
gain entry to vehicle; backpack 
containing keys, shoes, shin 
guards, mouthguard stolen; loss 
$265, damage to vehicle $350. Report taken.
3:23 p.m. Disorderly Conduct: 
Loiter/Toilet - East Campus Office BuildingSubject sexually solicited victim while using restroom. Report taken.
4:20 p.m. Vandalism - Medical 
Center Drive SouthLight, fender on bicycle bumped while on rack. Service provided.
5:24 p.m. Disturbance - 
Thornton PavillionFemale discharged from hospital against wishes, transported to another hospital. Service provided.
6:10 p.m. Hazard Situation - 
Glider PortOpen flame bonfire. Referred to San Diego Police Department.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
GET INVOLVED
APPLY NOW FOR OPEN POSITIONS WITHIN ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Visit as.ucsd.edu to apply. Applications due: (10/4-11/1)• CHIEF OF STAFF
• MARKETING STRATEGIST
• GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS 
   DIRECTOR
• JUDICIAL BOARD MEMBER
AND MORE 
Varies by position 
Play The Game That
   Will Change Your Life...
at UL TRAZONE
...
...
RANKED AMONG
IN USA
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  619.221.0100
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
20% OFF Your Event!UCSD 
Greeks / Student Orgs:
#ultrazonesd
“COLLEGE 
  NIGHT” 
Thursday —
3rd Game FREE
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
COLLEGE 
” 
3rd Game FREE
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
LATE NIGHT
at the ZONE 
Fri & Sat • 10:30pm to Midnight
$6.50 per Game
INTO THE LIBRARY 4 
By Michi Sora
the company currently provides JUST 
Egg to over 60 universities across the country.
“Consumer demand is a prominent 
factor in dining hall decision-making, ” Thorne said. “Students are increasingly asking for plant-based options, and we make a product that is plug-and-play. It tastes like an egg, cooks like an egg, and has about the same amount of protein. That makes it easy for campuses to 
incorporate it. ”
Thorne went on to say how, like 
at UCSD, university partnerships with 
JUST initially began a couple of years ago with other products like their vegan mayonnaise.
“Since day one, we’ve been committed 
to working with schools and universities to serve better food across campus, ” Thorne said. “We started working with this sector early on, supplying dining service operators with our early flagship products — plant-based mayos, dressings, cookies — that were served across dining halls in the U.S. ”
Thorne later discussed how JUST’s 
vegan egg and other products are served throughout the San Diego area beyond the UCSD campus, including at local restaurants and in grocery stores like 
Whole Foods Market and Vons.
While JUST Egg’s incorporation 
into HDH is UCSD’s first step into the 
mainstream vegan food market, other products may soon follow. Impossible Foods Inc., another major player in the vegan food industry, gained mainstream attention earlier this year after it developed a partnership with Burger King, which has a location on campus in Price Center.
Likewise, research suggests that those 
who are a part of Generation Z, which is the majority of the undergraduate student body, are much more open to vegan options, and that this interest has the potential to create a $5.2 billion market for alternative meat products.
JUST Egg is currently available 
in Roots, being served in the dining 
hall’s breakfast burrito, vegan breakfast 
plate, and soyrizo breakfast plate. No plans have yet been made to expand the presence of JUST Egg into other on-campus dining facilities.
here, tying to the programs at Park and Market and further down south. ” 
In addition to advocating for these 
programs, UCSD also built a 2,000 person open-air amphitheater to host free programs, created by students, faculty, and outside professionals, for the community. Moreover, the artwork around the neighborhood will attempt to be representative of the university’s multicultural background. 
“The way this is going to work is that 
you’re going to step down and walk on an Ann Hamilton Stuart Art Collection piece, ” Khosla said. “But in front of you, you will see art that represents Native American culture, murals that represent 
Chicano culture, and African American 
graffiti. We are going to use our wall space so that you would know that when you walk on this campus, there is a piece of you here. ”
The neighborhood will have a 1,400 
bed housing complex for transfer students. With these innovations, UCSD is trying to make the area a new center of campus while also being a major point of entry with the light rail line. 
“The building will be steps away 
from Pepper Canyon Station of the UC San Diego Blue Line Trolley extension    
and these projects along with other new facilities in the area will act as an inviting ‘foyer, ’ welcoming everyone to campus, ” UCSD spokeswoman Christine Clark said in an email to the UCSD Guardian. “The Design and Innovation Building 
and adjacent new amphitheater, as well 
as the upcoming Pepper Canyon West housing, will dazzle the senses with the dynamic, creative energy of UC San Diego. ”
The announcement event also 
displayed other projects from the Basement and Design Lab in its “Innovation Showcase” to exemplify the type of ideas which would be promoted at the new facilities. The expo had projects like new technologies for cleaning waterways in the ocean and a system that would facilitate more specialized antibiotics prescriptions for patients. 
Construction for the neighborhood 
and the light rail is expected to be finished by spring of 2021.
jacob  sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.org
Andrew Ha  news@ucsdguardian.orgJUST Egg is available throughout San Diego in various local restaurants and grocery stores
The Pepper Canyon neighborhood will include 1400 new beds for future transfer students▶ VEGAN , from page 1
▶ INNOVATION , from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Not a day has gone by during the past two years where I have not listened to 
a minimum of five Azealia Banks songs throughout my day. Her timeless house 
beats pull me through even the dullest of days. However, there is more to Ms. 
Banks than her legendary rhymes — the rapper has been a part of countless controversies. These range from allegations of racism and homophobia to 
practicing witchcra ft to bee fing with numerous public figures like Elon Musk 
and Lizzo to o ffending the entire countries of Sweden and Ireland. That being 
said, I still am le ft no choice but to stan the problematic queen because Banks is 
a gay icon through and through.
Before we get started, I am de fining the term “gay icon” as someone who is a 
symbol stannable by the gay community for allyship to the community, the type of content they produce, and what sort of cultural entertainment they provide. Banks o ffers something for each of the aforementioned categories of “stannable-
ness, ” the most important having to do with her allyship to the gay community.
This point is probably the most controversial one to make in arguing for why 
Banks is a gay icon — she has been accused of homophobia and transphobia on numerous occassions, with her lightest off ense being the use of the word “f-
----. ”  While the experiences of those on the receiving end of her twitter rants are 100 percent valid, Banks’s relationship to the LGBT community is much more complicated than what’s seen at first glance. In a now deleted instagram 
story, Banks spoke on how she has donated to help young trans people to obtain gender reassignment surgery and hormone therapy. Likewise, Banks produces and sells the infamous soap Bussyboy, a sanitary product created for the sole purpose of helping gay men to have the healthiest bottoms possible. One would be hard pressed to find a bigot doing these sorts of activities. For that, I have to 
stan.
Even though Banks has a messy history of interacting with the world, most 
gays do as well. When we choose to label Banks as solely a “bigot, ” a “racist, ” or as being “anti-gay, ” we are claiming that we ourselves are superior people, which is a bold claim to make. Everyone’s life journeys are filled with ups and downs 
— it just so happens that Banks’s journey is public. You can argue that she chose this or that with this position of power comes great responsibility; however, I counter by saying that if any of us had our lives so publicly viewable, we may not be considered “stannable” to the same standard that we hold Banks.
Now, I could not in good conscious say that Banks is perfect. But at the end 
of the day, are any of us? Having problematic aspects is an integral part of being human; some people are just more quiet about these aspects than Banks. With that in mind, because of her unique allyship, timeless bops, and entertaining feuds, Banks is truly deserving of the label “gay icon. ”The debate at hand, whether or not the gays ought to o fficially stan the epitome of 
pettiness Azealia Banks, is not around quality. Her album “Broke with Expensive Taste” straight up slaps, and the UCSD Guardian will hear no argument that says otherwise. Much in the same vein as Nicki Minaj, Banks’s vocals o ffer diverse and, dare I say, 
kitschy tracks to a genre that is so o ften loaded with overly-serious pretense. She is a 
strong woman who in so many ways counters a homogenous zeitgeist. But followers of the messy icon can not equivocate being a fan and being a stan. To become a fan, one must only find entertainment value in Banks, but to become a stan, one must factor in 
her history of relentless assault on other female artists and gays. With all that in mind, the gays have no choice: We can not stan. 
Her history of online harassment is well-documented. Her Wikipedia page lists feuds 
with no fewer than 49 notable figures in the entertainment industry, not to mention 
confrontations with strangers on planes and the Irish. Supposed Banks stans hail her as honest and direct, but she is hardly speaking truth to power. Rather, she has lashed out in ad hominem attacks against other female rappers, many of whom just so happen to receive more acclaim and attention for their music than Banks. She referred to Cardi B as an “illiterate rat” and a “caricature of a black woman, ” an o ffense taken so seriously 
by Cardi B that she deleted her instagram shortly a fter the feud. Perhaps even worse, 
she encouraged a similarly problematic rapper, Iggy Azalea, to contemplate suicide. While we definitely do not stan Azalea either, such a flagrant nonchalance for another 
woman’s struggle with mental illness uncovers a deep character flaw that prevents us 
from stanning, namely prioritizing self-interest over concern for others.
Many people within and without the LGBT community know that the gays really do 
love a messy queen. The entertainment value of Banks’s drama alone, music aside, has 
filled many a gay’s a fternoons. Beyond the question of whether to be a fan, though, is the 
question of whether to stan; to be a stan means to enjoy both the artist’s work and their role in the cultural milieu. Her history of anti-gay behavior gives us our answer. We can cut her some slack for her twitter tirades against white twinks because we are almost always annoying and messy ourselves. However, her use of slurs against gay people and her support for Trump, who throughout his term has rolled back protections for trans people put into place in the Obama era, can not be forgiven. Her product, Bussyboy, also presents some concerns. While marketed as a bottom’s best friend, the product is essentially a skin lightening soap that advances the image of a dark-skinned anus as dirty or unattractive. 
A thoughtful critic can not deny the immense potential Banks has as a source of 
entertainment, but our consideration for stanning can not end there. We need context. Banks is no longer just a musician; she has turned herself into a commodity for public consumption despite the mental damage she may cause to others online. Choosing to extricate her entertainment value from its harmful production is to fetishize the commodity at the expense of women, people of color, and gay and trans people. She herself only stans a chosen few, lashing out against anyone who espouses diff ering 
opinions or dares to levy even the smallest complaint against her. So, even though “212” and “Big Big Beat” are straight up f------bops, we can not stan someone who refuses to stan successful women, gays, or the Irish.Stan or Slam? Two of our writers go head-to-head over whether or not the controversial 
music artist is an icon within the gay community.
Yes, we Do in Fact S T A N a 
Problematic QueenWe Can Not Stan Someone who 
Refuses to Stan Others
By: Jacob Sutherland // News Editor
Contact Jacob at news@ucsdguardian.orgBy: Chris Robertson // Opinion Sta ff Writer
Contact Chris at crr015@ucsd.eduOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
2 FREE LYFT RIDESTHE SYNDICATE  
By Yui Kita
This fall, I am taking four classes, and all but one requires that I purchase the 
books listed on the syllabus. My grand total in textbook costs? $331.29. I should 
note that this price comes a fter the game that every student on this campus 
is familiar with: browsing Facebook pages for resold textbooks, price checking on Amazon, and a fter those channels fail, resorting to the campus bookstore. 
And, as a literature/writing major, I have heard that my textbooks are cheaper than my STEM peers. While I am fortunate to be able to a fford this, and power 
through with more frustration than anxiety, many of my fellow students are not. Professors on this campus should opt to upload scans of required readings or link students to online copies of books on Canvas instead of forcing students to buy textbooks. 
A shift toward online course content would alleviate students’ already high 
financial burden. On the UC San Diego website’s cost of attendance page, it is 
listed that the average cost of on-campus attendance for this academic year for a California resident is $31,887, and for non-California residents it’s $61,641. Of that, the university advises to budget for approximately $1,128 just for books and supplies. If professors were to transition to uploading course content online, that would mean an average of $1,000 saved for each year. And the reality is that given the prices of tuition, housing, and food, that money would in all likelihood still find its way back toward the university through other routes. If professors 
are able to pay for the reproduction rights to create print course readers with excerpts of readings, they should be able to place that same content online. This 
transition would cut down on the costs placed on students, and ultimately be a 
more sustainable alternative to printing hundreds of readers that are only used 
for three months. 
Furthermore, placing course content online would only serve to promote 
students’ engaging with assigned texts. This campus is so large that it becomes 
impractical for students to carry around all of our books, most of which we’re only assigned to read a handful of chapters. We have the option of renting commuter lockers, but that adds to the overall cost of having physical textbooks and requires students to find the time to return to certain locations in order 
to access their books. However, nearly everyone carries a laptop or a phone, meaning that access to online readings could be just a click away. Moreover, even if one doesn’t have access to internet at home, there are multiple libraries and resource centers that allow students free computer usage. If professors offered online readings, students would be able to utilize those readings any 
time they wanted or needed to. 
Ultimately, arranging for course content to be available on Canvas would 
present students with a choice as to whether or not they want to possess print copies. The choice should not be between buying a book or not doing 
the readings. Thus, professors should upload their assigned readings out of an 
awareness of the pressures placed on modern students and the bene fits of an 
increasingly digitized campus.  Quick Takes: Buried in (Text)books
By: Daisy Scott // Editor in Chief
Contact Daisy at editor@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
From small policy disagreements to large 
political controversies, there is no shortage 
of issues to debate when it comes to today’s politics. Viewpoints from both progressives and conservatives remain incredibly polarized, leavings people in the middle to either decide between extremes or back moderate ideas that would help ease the polarity. This polarization often prevents compromise on problems such as gun control and climate change. Although debating on these topics and ideas can be tedious, discussion is often the best way to facilitate compromise and possibly lead to the implementation of laws with partisan support. There is room for discussion on these topics not only in Capitol Hill but also in our 
everyday lives by those who care about the 
future of America and the plant as a whole.
College students and young voters are 
typically the most interested in today’s politics due to their potential to enact change for their own futures. The UCSD Guardian collaborated with The California Review, a newspaper based in California, to host a debate with this in mind. The debate featured writers from both newspapers who discussed what kind of gun policy would be adequate to pass and economic and cultural solutions to climate change. 
Two writers from the Guardian, Eleanor 
Roosevelt College senior Christopher Robertson, a democrat, and Thurgood Marshall College senior Jacob Sutherland, a democractic socialist, represented the more liberal side of the political spectrum. Austin Katz, a conversative, and Christian Carvajal, a liberaterian, represented the more conservative side of the political spectrum on behalf of The California Review’s staff. This panel was intended to have ideological balance as there were people on both sides of the issues presenting ideas from various parts of the political spectrum. The presenters were all male due to the lack of female applicants. Their views did not speak for everyone affected by these issues, but all of the participants were aware of this lack of representation and 
attempted to educate themselves through 
extensive research on how the issues affect everyone. 
The debate was structured to promote 
fairness. First, the moderators posed a question, and the debaters made their way down the table as each student provided a statement in response. Another round of statements followed, and then a few rounds of rebuttals. All of the speakers were timed by two moderators, Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Chole Esser of the Guardian and Aaron Genin of The California Review, so that they could respond without dragging on too long or getting off track from their main points. After the first round, adjustments were made to this structure so the rebuttal was an open discussion, giving anyone the opportunity to speak instead of following a certain order. 
After a 15-minute delay and a lot of audible 
whispering from the debaters, the debate began with the question: What role should firearms have in the U.S. and to what extent should the government manage the sale and usage of them? Sutherland and Robertson began by arguing for solutions to avoid gun violence as a whole through the reconstruction of the system that permits a high wealth gap in conjunction with incidents of violence against marginalized minorities in urban areas. The introduction of gun licensing — a system that requires a variety of tests and requirements in order to legally get a gun — was another concept brought up by the progressives. Katz responded by arguing that the problem is typically misperceived: the guns themselves aren’t the problem. They can be used to fight for democratic values. 
“The problem with gun violence and of itself 
is a cultural misunderstanding and deviation away from the values that made this country great. ”
On top of what Katz had to say, Carvajal 
reiterated the importance of an American citizen being able to protect themselves. And in the end, he elaborated, any kind of gun restriction will be moot. 
“Criminals don’t follow the law, ” he said. 
“So when you point the gun-buying policies for removing firearms from the dangerous individuals, the fact of the matter is the criminals do not follow. ”
There would continue to be arguing on 
both sides about how to proceed with any sort of policy action. The firm stances of all the participants allowed for a compromise to be realized and it was left with little progress on the issue. As it is the case with many political conversations, compromises are hard to be realized every time that people sit down and sort out all of the ideas. The attempt to solve this complex issue should be celebrated as with more attempts, there should be more progress made on a topic that is currently in deadlock. 
Before moving onto the environmental 
portion of the debate, Domino’s Pizza was supplied to those that were in attendance. The intermission allowed for time to digest the arguments and information while the debaters strategize for the next topic. 
The debate resumed with the issue of climate 
change, but prior to the the opening statements being presented, the moderators informed the candidates that the debate would not be about  whether climate change is occurring or not. The participants agreed to assume 
that climate change is real and happening, 
and that they would discuss the best measures to prevent it from getting worse. Robertson began the conversation by saying that he was “going to agree with a good amount of what they’re saying and just disagreeing with a lot of other stuff. ” His opening statement set the tone from the entire debate since most of the ideas would be into specifics on the basis that the general idea of climate change is agreed upon. Sutherland addressed the conservatives’ desire to focus all of resources on America with technological advancements and a international agreement that, unlike the Paris Agreement, holds developing nations accountable.  
“I think if we set the standard at a certain 
level, we would be able to invest some of that money not only in our own economy, but towards clean energy in the economies of 
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
 
UP  FOR   DEBA TE
A selected panel of four students discussed gun control and environmental policy 
issues in a political debate co-hosted by Th e Guardian and the California Review.
By NELSON ESPINAL    Contributing writer
 Panelists Jacob Sutherland, Christopher Robertson, Austin Katz, and Christian Carvajal prepare their 
arguments for debate.PHOTO COURTESY OF KENNETH SCHRUPP
See DEBATE,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
other developing countries, ” Sutherland said. 
“We could ask other first world nations who are doing the same to push forward so that way we can prop up the other countries who may not 
have the expenses to be aware as well. And there, 
of course, would be a place that accountability 
for whether you can receive these funds or not, 
but I think that would be one solution to ensure that every country is playing their part. ”
The question on how to handle the resources 
that are going to be invested into the issue of climate change received pushback from both sides as both Katz and Carvajal agreed that America must do something to help the environment, but that it should not invest in third world countries. Katz also bluntly stated that larger nations have to be held to a higher standard.
“My friends champion China as one of the 
major pollution reducers in the world. I’m sorry, but that’s putting lipstick on a pig there, ” he said, referring to China. “It’s still one of the biggest polluters there. It’s still a pig. ”
They both argued that America should invest 
into technology created in the states and that it would trickle down into the hands of other countries who don’t have the resources or funds. The tax proposed by Carvajal, and supported by everyone on the stage, would lead to companies who have high emissions to pay a high tax to incentivize a move to cleaner energy. 
The debate moved to how to handle the profit 
and Robertson acknowledged that there has to be some kind of cost for the greater good. 
“We’re just going to have to, at some point, 
accept that we are part of a global economy as it is, ” Robertson said, ” And if we want to expect any kind of change, we can’t just focus on ourselves. 
We have to invest a little bit of time, effort, and 
money into other economies. ”
In the end, the consensus from the participants 
appeared to feature a more aggressive approach that still kept the other countries in check and cooperating with certain restrictions. The remaining portion of the debate was a Q&A section which had the audience and people online ask questions from a Google form link 
for the debaters to answer. Some questions like 
“How do we solve this plague of incells and sweeping our country?” led to more serious conversations that developed some of the ideas that weren’t fully developed in the debate. 
However, one of the better questions was 
not serious at all. The speakers, specifically the progressives, were asked about their thoughts on Democractic primary candidate Tulsi Gabbard. Robertson answered first by airing some displeasures with her candidacy. 
“She’s just a lackluster democratic militarist for 
boring people, but also she is just terrible on her 
foreign policy, ” Robertson said. “I disagree with 
pulling troops out of Syria, which is a weird thing 
for me. But yeah, we don’t stan. ”
Sutherland, a known Tulsi Gabbard supporter, 
did not take kindly to these remarks and sparked 
some division between the same side. 
“I have been following her for a number of 
years. Now. I really appreciated what she did during the 2016 election and after that just 
following her social media accounts and the kind 
of the policies and bills that she has advocated for in the Senate. She’s in the house. Not the Senate. I agree with her 95 percent of the time. So yeah, I’m just on board for that. Aloha!”
The following question kept the humor rolling 
with a conspiracy-themed question addressing the theory that Jeffrey Epstein did not commit sucide and die from another way. Katz answered the question with the seriousness that it truly deserved.
“It was all one needs to know is there’s literally 
a painting of Bill Clinton in a blue dress and red heels in Jeffrey Epstein’s apartment, ” he said. “I think that’s enough. ”This section did provide some of the more 
philosophical and thought-provoking portions of the debate as there was a question about the impact that the roles of society have on 
gun violence and the culture of America as a 
whole. The answer that received the most finger-
snapping all night was given by Robertson as he 
pushed back on the importance of gender norms and masculinity. 
“I think that we can have particular moral and 
social norms without them being necessarily normative and without people feeling pressure to conform to them, ” Robertson said. “So it’s not necessarily that we need to abolish the idea of roles. Although, I think that would do a lot of people a lot of good. It’s more abolishing the social pressure around them in creating contacts for people that can adapt and be flexible to their conditions. We don’t necessarily need to have a strict morality about behavior because a lot of people just either aren’t to be able to meet them or just won’t and so like these these kind of traditional normative roles are kind of pigeon 
holes for a lot of people who just won’t be able to 
meet them. ”
The aftermath of the debate was a rush to 
get the last few slices of pizza that were left and taking the closing picture. It must have been a challenge and at least a little bit uncomfortable for the debaters to have a debate with people who disagree and will come prepared for the topics. It may have been new to others, but Sutherland has done it before in his hometown in Illinois.
“I didn’t find it challenging to prepare since 
I come from a super conservative part of the midwest. I have never debated before, but I have interacted with people who disagree with me. ”
The experience of watching this two-hour 
spectacle was proof that there can be civilized discourse from people that are still young in their political thoughts. From the laughter to the high tempo finger-snapping, the theme of civility took over the ballroom as everyone made their arguments without making it personal or being offensive due to one’s position. Every claim made had some sort of supporting evidence 
whether board or specific incidents. Nobody in 
the room appeared to have their preconceived notions changed, but the balanced conversation did accomplish demonstrating how hard it is for politicians to comprise and meet in the middle. Even in a time with intense polarity, the fact that the Clintons killed Epstein remains a partisan agreement. 
 
“Their views did not 
speak for everyone 
affected by these 
issues, but all of the 
participants were 
aware of this lack of 
representation and 
attempted to educate 
themselves through 
extensive research on 
how the issues affect 
everyone.”▶ DEBATE , from page 6
NelsoN   Espinal  Nespinal@UCSD.EDUA&E EDITORS // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
FILM   REVIEW
Parasite
Director  Bong Joon-ho
Starring  Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam
Release Date Oct. 11, 2019 (USA)
Rated  RCA+
What follows is an unrelenting and grotesque mutation of genre into social horror , taken to so many places and to such Shakespearean heights that by the time 
it’ s over , it’ s impossible to think it almost entirely takes place within one space. 
After Bong Joon-ho won the Palme 
d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival 
earlier this year for “Parasite, ” he 
returned to his home country of South Korea as a national hero. It’s hard to believe that 
Bong’s is the first Korean film to have ever 
won the prestigious award — the auteur 
was part of a generation of visionary Korean directors coming out of the late ‘90s with 
insane visions of filmmaking that imploded 
the logics of genre and film culture as it 
was. Y et, in spite of “Parasite”’s inevitable 
arthouse success, as well as Bong and lead 
actor Song Kang-ho’s renowned abilities, 
who could have expected such success and 
cultural crossover for a Korean film to take place with mainstream audiences? Perhaps 
this is a testament to the universality of 
Bong’s tragicomedy masterpiece (and it is a 
masterpiece) — a nightmarish social fairytale 
and Marxist political documentary on class 
and the people suffering under its divisions. 
The film begins in a shoddy basement 
apartment with socks hung out to dry and son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) dismayed that 
the free Wi-Fi his family has been leeching 
off of is now protected. It is here that the Kim family makes a living packing pizza boxes, 
barely able to survive, taking advantage of 
their open windows to let public fumigation 
gas permeate into their apartment in 
order to avoid any nonessential expense. 
So when Ki-woo’s friend Min (Park Seo-
joon) offers Ki-woo his role as an English tutor for the extremely wealthy Park family, 
Ki-woo carefully devises a plan to infiltrate 
the family’s ensemble of private workers. 
This proves rather easy, as the Park family 
(already so preoccupied with themselves and so divorced from the social world around 
them) is so reliant on the labor of others 
that it seems an impossibility for them to do 
anything else but purchase it. But just as what 
seems to be a black comedy heist flick takes form, as more family members manipulate 
their way into the Park family’s employment 
network, in a single instant, everything 
earned comes crashing down — surely 
nothing good comes so easy, especially in 
Bong’s films. What follows is an unrelenting 
and grotesque mutation of genre into social 
horror, taken to so many places and to such 
Shakespearean heights that by the time it’s 
over, it’s impossible to think it almost entirely 
takes place within one space. 
Bong first developed a concept of the plot 
during post-production for “Snowpiercer, ” 
but he asserts the idea was something that already existed inside him. In interviews, he cites an experience as a college student in which he worked as a tutor for a family 
whose extravagant wealth parallels that of the 
Parks, singling out one moment in which his 
student shows off his family’s private sauna. 
Here, Bong describes being overcome with a 
feeling of impropriety, as an outsider crossing 
over an unbreachable line of class division — to, for such a brief moment, occupy a space in 
which you so deeply feel you are proscribed 
from being. 
It is this same feeling of impropriety that 
is at work not only in the film’s marketing 
slogan — to “act like you own the place” — 
but also in the architectural mapping of the 
Park home itself. It’s within this marvel of modernist design, with all its glossy surfaces 
and sharp lines, that a subversion of this 
structure of feeling takes place — an invasion 
that works on both literal and metaphorical 
levels of hidden space inside the home. The 
Park family, with all their wealth, and so 
oblivious to their surrounding environment, lets an entire family slip between the cracks, 
both in the furniture of their lives as well as 
the ones literally built into the walls. It’s only 
through an extreme excess of land and space that such hiding may take place (as opposed 
to the Kim’s semi-basement apartment where 
nearly everything is laid out in plain view) 
— the rich family creates the conditions 
for their own entrapment by virtue of their 
grotesque wealth. Capitalism sows the seeds 
for its own destruction and the vampire gets a taste of its own blood. 
But the taste is just a taste. Revolution isn’t 
so straightforward, and Bong knows this. 
For a director whose underdog protagonists 
always confront insurmountable forces head-on, often with half-assed plans, it is here, as 
everything falls apart, that Bong leaves us 
with a second half just so incredibly bleak. 
With the Kim family completely helpless 
and having absolutely no plan or course of action, it’s devastating to watch. Song Kang-
ho, reviving his professional relationship with 
Bong, proves once more that he’s one of the 
greatest actors working today, giving a tragic 
performance as father Ki-taek. As the family’s 
linchpin, it’s only when he reveals his complete 
despondency to having lost everything that 
we realize there is nowhere for them to go, 
no other option but to struggle without aim. 
This is not just pessimism — it’s a coming 
to consciousness of the contradictions of 
capitalism in a country whose working class 
has been suffocated by decades of neoliberal 
adjustment. 
This is an auteur working at the height of his creative powers, proving once again 
just how special of a talent he is. There are 
really so few directors who can train their 
camera at the most important moments with 
such care, so attuned to detail and to such 
a degree of perfection; can write about the 
lives of working people and the complex structures they inhabit as autonomous 
subjects with such humanity and currency; 
can leave you constantly gasping for breath, 
never granting the viewer reprieve. Bong 
is a director consistently responding to the 
material conditions of social life, from the 
anti-colonial satire of U.S. occupation in “The Host” to a near hopeless critique of the 
late-capitalist dystopia of factory farming in 
“Okja” and finally, a fully realized insinuation 
of class warfare in “Parasite. ” This is Bong 
Joon-ho’s magnum opus, and we are so lucky 
to live in a time where we can bear witness to 
the culmination of his anti-capitalist politics.
—  Justin Nguyen
Senior Staff Writer
Director Bong Joon-ho brought home the most prestigious award, the Palme d’Or, at the 
Cannes Film Festival on May 25th, 2019. Bong was the first Korean director to win the award in the festival’s 72 -year history. PHOTO COURTESY OF MADMAN ENTERTAINMENT
PHOTO COURTESY OF AFPA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
On the morning of Sept. 
4, I opened my phone 
to news of an upcoming 
event called “Rocketman”: Live in Concert. ” “Rocketman, ” a musical 
biopic of Elton John’s life released 
earlier this year, was to screen in 
its entirety at The Greek Theatre in Los Angeles on Oct. 17. The 
showing would be accompanied 
by live music from The Hollywood 
Symphony Orchestra and a 
performance by Elton John himself 
and Taron Egerton, the actor who 
plays John in “Rocketman. ”
Fast forward to over a month 
later, I was sitting on an Amtrak train to Los AngelesA instead of 
in my political science lecture. 
The lengths (and costs) I took to 
attend were almost as excessive as 
Elton John’s ‘70s outfits, but I didn’t want to miss a chance to see John 
live before his retirement from 
touring in 2020. This event was 
different from his normal concerts, 
so I didn’t entirely know what to expect. From the excited, buzzing atmosphere that night, it seemed 
that others felt the same way.
The concert could easily be 
mistaken as a very early Halloween 
party. Fans of all ages recreated 
many of John’s iconic looks: 
children posed in bedazzled Dodgers’ uniforms, an adult man 
waddled in a full Donald Duck 
costume, and elderly women 
milled around with big glasses and 
feather boas. But while eccentric 
articles of clothing were abound 
among the crowds, the venue itself soldhad no event apparel besides a 
lanyard that came with a copy of 
John’s just-released autobiography, 
“Me.” . I forked over the money. I 
was already too deep into this.
The show began with an 
introduction by “Rocketman” director Dexter Fletcher, who 
praised the profound impacts of 
Elton John’s career, alongside John’s 
lifelong songwriter and friend 
Bernie Taupin. Then, in all its unabashed theatricality, the movie played. Rocking, fan-favorite 
musical numbers like “Saturday 
Night’s Alright (For Fighting)” and 
“Honky Cat” combined seamlessly 
with the energy of the live orchestra. 
Key moments of the movie and 
John’s life, like  — him meeting Taupin, writing “Y our Song, ” and 
coming out as gay, — sparked 
cheers. When John’s mother told 
him he’ll never be loved, shouts 
of “we love you” rose. My favorite 
audience reactions were the hoots 
and whistles during the sex scene.
But despite fanfare at certain 
points of the film, I was surprised by an otherwise general lack of 
enthusiasm in the audience. Most 
people mumbled lyrics under their 
breath, instead of going full-on 
sing-along. There were even people who were upset because they had 
misinterpreted the nature of the 
event. Some expected Elton John 
and Taron Egerton to perform the 
songs during the screening. More than a few thought that the concert was a stop on John’s farewell tour. 
During the 20-minute intermission, 
several disgruntled people took the 
“Ggoodbye” in “Goodbye Y ellow 
Brick Road” literally.
As for the movie itself, 
“Rocketman” is a good movie; it’s 
fun, emotional, and well-acted, 
but its formulaic structure leaves it 
short from being great. So for me, 
rewatching it, on a faraway screen, with a partial view, sadly reminded 
me how much my wallet was 
burning. The orchestra itself was 
spot-on to the film’s soundtrack 
and score. It was undoubtedly 
impressive, but without much of 
an audible difference, I felt as if I was just hearing the recorded 
audio from the film. But visually, 
witnessing an orchestra go ham 
during “I’m Still Standing, ” 
complete with a mini light show, was a thrill.
Finally, what we had all been 
waiting for, happened. Before the 
credits could roll, an announcement 
thatof “the legend himself and the 
performer who embodied him 
so perfectly” boomed around the outdoor amphitheatre. Everyone 
let out a collective scream. People 
jumped up and fumbled for their 
phones as if all their energy had 
been reserved for this very moment. 
The movie was brushed aside like it 
was a two-hour opening act.
Elton John, in a sparkly red 
and white ensemble, and Taron Egerton, in a “GQ”-worthy white 
suit, held hands as they took the 
stage to sing “(I’m Gonna) Love 
Me Again. ” Sitting on stools and 
swaying to the beat, the two men proudly watched each other 
take turns singing, waved at the 
starstruck orchestra, and beamed 
at the adoring audience. It was 
impossible to wipe the grin off anyone’s face from seeing the 
beloved duo belt their hearts out 
to the upbeat, heartwarming song.
After the song, an excited 
Dexter Fletcher appeared, hugged 
the men, and, to the shocked gasps of the audience, welcomed 
Bernie Taupin to the stage. Taupin 
thanked the orchestra, John, and 
Egerton for their musical talent. 
Then there were more surprise 
appearances and speeches by Jamie 
Bell, (who played Taupin), Bryce 
Dallas Howard, (who played John’s 
mother), and music producer Giles 
Martin.
Eventually, Egerton took the mic. 
“I, over the course of promoting this film, have sang a few times 
with Sir Elton John, but there’s one 
song we’ve never done live, and 
I’ve always wanted to. ” Ignoring the 
sudden screams from the audience, 
he shot a look at John beside him. 
“So I think we should do it.”
Without further ado, John went 
and sat down at a piano behind him. Then, cries of recognition and 
delight filled the cool night sky as 
he played the first notes of “Don’t Let the Sun Go Down on Me. ” 
Egerton tenderly sang the opening 
verse, followed by John. Though he 
had released the song in 1974 as a 
tenor, John, now a baritone, gave 
the song a new, incredible amount 
of power and soul, nailing every note and sending shivers across 
the crowd. The song built up into 
a rich crescendo, joining Egerton 
and John together in the stirring 
chorus.
The two of them exited right after 
the song ended. As always, Elton John had delivered an unforgettable 
performance. As everyone 
stumbled out in an awe-struck 
daze, the venue handed people 
special posters commemorating the 
event. Overall, the joy of watching 
“Rocketman: Live in Concert” with an audience of old and new fans 
and being blessed with the presence 
of Captain Fantastic himself was an 
experience that can’t be described 
as better than magical. It’s going to be a long, long time ‘til I get over 
this.
— Natalie Tran
Senior Staff Writer
Tyler, The CreatorPHOTO COURTESY OF BEN KAYE
Location   Pechanga Arena
Concert Date  Oct. 19, 2019CATyler, the Creator performs his dynamic album “IGOR” live to worshiping 
audience members in San Diego. 
In an absurdly long line outside of Pechanga 
Arena, a sea of teens sporting beanies, mom 
jeans, and scuffed Golf lLe Fleur shoes 
eagerly awaited to be let into the venue to see Tyler, the Creator. Dyed hair and sweaty bodies 
pressed against one another, as the doors finally 
opened, , and everyone pushed themselves 
toward the front of the line. The excitement was tangible. The wait was over. The iconic rapper 
would be performing in less than two hours. 
Tyler Okonma, more commonly known as 
Tyler, the Creator, has made quite a name for 
himself in the hip- hop industry. Heand has 
essentially kickstarted the “flower-boy” aesthetic, 
which is . Although his adored album “Flower 
Boy” is the epitome of this new trend, he does 
not limit himself to any one specific sound. 
His latest album “IGOR” showcases his ability 
to continuously grow as a musician while still maintaining his unique sound that separates 
him from other artists. The production quality 
on “IGOR, ” as well as the relatable story of love 
and heartbreak embedded into the lyrics, makes 
for an immersive album that anyone can fall in 
love with.
The show began at 7 p.m. on the dot with 
the hip- hop and /R&B rapper Goldlink as the 
first opening act. His high-energy songs mixed 
with his dynamic stage presence hyped up the 
entire venue and had those in the gGeneral aAdmissions area moshing 10ten minutes into his 
performance. Although openers typically have a 
difficult time getting the audience to engage with, 
or even care about, their performances, Goldlink 
was easily able to get the crowd pumped up and ready for the rest of the concert.
Following Goldlink, singer and /songwriter 
Devonté Hynes entered the stage. Hynes, better 
known by his stage name ‘Blood Orange, ’ was a 
stark juxtaposition from Goldlink’s performance 
but in all the right ways possible. HAlthough 
his songs were more mellow, he was still able to hypnotizinge the audience through his beautiful 
vocals and mesmerizing music. Every single 
word sung by Blood Orange was devoured by 
an audience hungry for more. “I had to see you 
live for more / Y ou said it before / Y ou wish I 
seen the saint you were before, ” he sang into the mic near the end of his performance, compelling 
every head in the audience to sway, eyes closed, 
to his melodic message, not wanting the moment 
to end. 
However, despite the fantastic performances 
put on by the two opening acts, the crowd was 
clearly growing impatient to see Tyler. The venue 
felt electric as the buzz before his set grew larger and larger with every passing moment. Finally, 
after much anticipation, Tyler stepped out onto the stage. The venue erupted. The cheers bled 
into his first song, “IGOR’S THEME, ” and didn’t 
stop for the remainder of the show. In his white 
wig and blue powdered suit, Tyler stomped 
around the stage and led the crowd through other 
songs off of  “IGOR, ” such as “I THINK, ” “ A BOY 
IS A GUN*, ” and “NEW MAGIC W AND. ” Tyler, 
the Creator did not stop at simply performing his 
songs live, however. He went above and beyond with his performance, adding in additional 
opening music to introduce his songs and 
creating small twists within the music itself. For 
example, before he jumped into “EARFQUAKE, ” 
he performed a full arrangement of his song on 
the piano. This not only served to further prove his talent and his versatility as an artist, but it was also a creative way to augment one of the most 
popular tracks on the album. 
Sandwiched in between tracks off of “IGOR” 
were some of Tyler’s other songs from previous albums. He brought back old bops, such as 
“Y onkers” and of course performed songs from 
“Flower Boy. ” “See Y ou Again” was the second 
to last song on his setlist, and it was the perfect 
balance of sweetness and nostalgia to perform near the end of the show. 
Tyler’s final song was the iconic last track off of 
“IGOR. ” As the entire crowd sang along to “ ARE 
WE STILL FRIENDS?, ” the stadium illuminated 
from the audience’s phone flashlights, a palatable 
bittersweet realization filled the arena as 
everybody realized the show was coming to an end. “I don’t want to end the season on a bad 
episode, ” Tyler sang, and he certainly did not. We 
all hope to see you again.
— Eric Chun
Staff Writer
For one night only , “Rocketman: Live in Concert” celebrates the life of Elton John with a live 
orchestra and a special performance by Elton John and T aron Egerton. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
Rocketman: Live in Concert
Location   Greek Theater
Concert Date  Oct. 17, 2019CBCONCERT   REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF MATT SAYLES10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Bear Garden
Bear GardenBear Garden
Fall Into Magic
NOVEMBER 15
3-6PMREVELLE PLAZAA 21st Birthday without Alchohol?
by Zoe Wong, Contributing Writer
It’s your 21st birthday. How are you planning to celebrate? Does 
it involve alcohol? Somehow, it has become such a normal thing 
to celebrate a “drinking debut” on one’s 21st birthday. Whenever 
someone talks about turning 21, I expect to hear about their drinking 
plans for that night. But what about the often forgotten minority of 
people that choose not to drink? Surely, they exist? What would they 
do for fun?
I was lucky enough to celebrate my 21st birthday on a weekend, 
which meant that I had the whole day to celebrate. Accordingly, I started my day with brunch at a semi-fancy restaurant called the Provisional Kitchen in the Gaslamp Quarter. While they did offer posh wine and dining, I chose not to have alcohol. Afterward, I ended my cat deprivation and coddled many cats at The Cat Cafe for several hours. Next thing I knew, it was already night time — my favorite time of day. I spent the whole evening in bed watching my favorite shows. 
After I turned 21, multiple people asked me whether I went drinking 
for my birthday. For many, the events of my 21st birthday lacked in excitement. As they put it, it “was chill. ” A few people even expressed disappointment that I did not drink. Although I provided that it was a choice that I made for myself, some individuals promised that they would personally take me, as if it was a mistake that had to be righted. They assumed that I didn’t have fun because alcohol wasn’t involved. But for me, the events on my 21st were more than I could have ever wanted. It’s an unpopular opinion, but I don’t believe that alcohol must be involved to have fun. There are so many other activities out there that can be just as fun, if not more.
So, to those that are interested in celebrating their 21st birthday 
sans alcohol, I’ve done my best to compile a list of activities that can be done in San Diego.
Face your fears and soar through the air. Skydiving, ziplining, and 
paragliding are all activities that are worth considering, especially in San Diego because the weather is usually very nice. Plus, the fact that the ocean is so close makes the view from above more scenic. Although these activities may seem like a splurge, there are always sweet deals offered on Groupon. 
Ready, aim, and fire; paintball, laser tag, and ax throwing are all 
great stress relievers if your birthday takes place around midterms. Maybe your 21st can be the day that you encounter a new passion! 
Try something new by taking a class: cooking, painting, salsa dancing, archery, meditation, or glassblowing. I would personally recommend 
checking out salsa dancing at Tango Del Ray.
Perhaps a delicious activity is more your style? It is for me. Picnics 
and barbecues are great for a more budget-friendly celebration. 
Alternatively, enjoying a three-course fondue meal or an elegant 
afternoon tea could also be an interesting experience if you’re willing 
to splurge on food. I mentioned this experience already since it’s what I did on my birthday, but I would also recommend the Cat Cafe in downtown if you love cats.
If you prefer to stay indoors or if you have the misfortune of running 
into bad weather, try building a blanket fort and having a movie marathon, complete with lots of yummy food and some board games. Alternatively, host a painting night with friends and try your hand at painting with a Bob Ross tutorial. 
To capture a unique photo, I propose checking out pop-ups 
around San Diego. My favorites are the pop-up museums that change frequently from summer to fall, for instance, the Museum Of What: Love Tour this past March or The Cado museum that celebrates all things avocado.
I’m not a fan of horror, but I had the opportunity to check out one of 
San Diego’s scariest escape rooms by the name of The Harvest Motel. I was thoroughly spooked and would recommend it to anyone that enjoys horror. However, if you don’t like horror but are still interested in challenging your brain, check out The Great Room.
My last suggestions are inspired by the fact that sometimes, we 
just gotta go fast; rollerblading, ice skating, and go-kart racing are activities that attempt to go the speed at which the years pass us by.
Regardless of what you or your friends choose to do for a 21st 
birthday, I sincerely hope that your choice grants you true happiness. On our birthdays, we are made aware that we are one year older, but in reality, we are constantly aging. We should cherish every moment and every choice we make because every day is the youngest we’ll ever be, but also the oldest we’ve been at that moment. I wish you the courage to follow the choices you make for yourself because that will be the greatest gift you can give yourself.LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
SUBMIT YOUR CREATIVE PROJECT TODAY!
Last Minute Halloween Costumes
by Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Editor
As Halloween approaches us quickly, if you’re 
like me, you’ve waited until now to pick an outfit. 
With not much time left — and most likely not much money if you’re an average college student — the options can seem limited. If you have a party to get to this week or weekend and need some help, here are some quick, low-budget ideas 
to rock this Halloween.
A witch: This costume is a true classic. You or 
your friends most likely own a witch hat already, 
but if you don’t, they can be found for pretty cheap in Halloween stores or stores like Party City or Target. Once you’ve got your hat, look through your clothes for anything dark and flowy, and you’ve got your outfit right there! Top it off with some dark eye makeup and lipstick, and you’re ready to strut your witchy stuff at that party!
A ghost: This is perhaps the easiest and most 
well-known costume you could go for. If you truly are out of time to pick out a costume, take an old sheet — or a cheap one from Target or Ross — and simply cut out holes for your eyes and mouth. From there, you’re free to go haunt any room you 
walk into with complete comfort!
A vampire: No, you don’t have to go as the 
glittery, broody Edward Cullen-type vampire, but 
rather as a true, timeless Dracula. Similar to the witch hat, you can buy a cape at the same kind of stores listed above for a pretty college student-
friendly price. From there, a white shirt and dark 
jeans are perfectly acceptable. To complete the look, use some red face paint or even lipstick to get that classic blood dripping mouth look and you’re ready to make a trip to Transylvania!
A farmer: Since there’s no denying that overalls 
are in right now, this outfit should be a cinch for most of us! Grab those overalls, put on a flannel underneath them or around your waist, and your outfit is done! If you want a little more to add, grab a straw hat and boots if you have them to complete the look. Not only is this costume easy, but also very comfortable! Y ee-haw!
A greaser: If you’re feeling the Danny Zuko and 
Sandy Olsson vibes from the ‘50s, this costume is an easy go-to! Get those blue jeans and cuff them at the bottom, grab a white shirt, leather jacket, and finally some Converse if you’ve got some laying around. Brush your hair back — use some gel if you need to — and go Grease Lightnin’ , go! 
A mummy: This costume is another great one if 
you’re under a real time crunch. All you’ve got to 
do is put on whatever comfortable outfit you want; 
jeans and a T-shirt are perfectly fine! Then, get a friend to simply help you wrap toilet paper all around your head, torso, arms, and legs. All you’ve got to prepare is your deadly mummy walk!12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 8 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
1 1.7Green Table Room
12:30pm - 1:30pmBlue PepperSpooky Snacks for a Hosting Halloween Party
by Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Editor
If you and your friends are throwing a Halloween party 
this week or weekend, then you know that the snacks 
provided can really make or break a party! If you’re in need of some easy-to-make, but also entertaining ideas, then here are some spooky snacks coming your way.
White Chocolate Strawberry Ghosts: With such a 
simple recipe, this take on chocolate-covered strawberries 
will be a real hit! All you need to do is get your 
strawberries, white chocolate, and black frosting. Melt down the chocolate to dip the strawberries in and from there, use the black frosting to draw on two eyes and a mouth to complete the ghost look.
Haunted Pigs in a Blanket: For this snack, it is a simple 
twist on a classic crowd pleaser! To make these mummified hot dogs, go out and get the normal ingredients for pigs in a blanket: lLittle hot dogs and preferably Pillsbury Crescent Rolls dough. Instead of rolling the entire dog, roll the majority, leave a space for the “face, ” and roll the top of the “head. ” Once cooked, take mustard to dot on two eyes and you’re done! Spooky, yet savory!
Pumpkin Rice Krispies Treats: For these tasty, round 
delicacies, all you need to do is prepare Rice Krispies Treats as normal with a few small alterations. When mixing the marshmallow and cereal, make sure to add in drops of red and yellow food coloring to get your preferred shade of orange. Then, roll each treat into a ball and top it with a Tootsie Roll stem. 
Bell Pepper Jack-O’-Lanterns: If you’re looking to add 
some healthy options in addition to all of the sugary treats, this is an easy option to try out! Take an orange 
bell pepper and remove the top part with the stem. From 
there, just like carving a pumpkin, take out any seeds and carve out a face on the front side of the pepper. Then, all you need to do is add in strips of green bell pepper or celery to fill the “pumpkin” to create a stem and you’re all set! 
Grilled Cheese Tombstones: For this snack, prepare 
some grilled cheese sandwiches as you usually would. Once cooked, cut them into little tombstone or coffin shapes. Then, take any condiment of your choice to drizzle on a cross, “R.I.P ., ” or anything of your choosing. Place shredded lettuce onto a plate as grass in the “graveyard” for the grilled cheese sandwiches to lay on and you’re ready to present them to your guests! 
Spiderweb Guacamole: For a frightful take on your 
average chips and dip, try this out! Take your guacamole and put it into a circular container. Then, take sour cream to create a spider web design on top of the guacamole. To top it off, use a black olive for the body of a spider and cut strips of another olive to make the eight legs. 
Boo-nanas and Tangerine Pumpkins: For another 
healthier option, all you need is some bananas, tangerines, celery, and chocolate frosting. For the boo-nanas, take half of a banana and use chocolate frosting to draw on the face of a ghost. For the tangerines, peel a tangerine, leaving it in its circular shape, and take a small piece of celery to create the pumpkin’s stem. CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
THEO CROCKERNOVEMBER 1 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
UCSD BLOOD DRIVE - LIBRARY 
WALK
The Gift that Keeps on Giving! Donate blood and 
save a life! Tuesday, Oct. 29th, 2019 Wednesday, Oct. 30th, 2019 Thursday, Oct. 31st, 2019 10:00 AM-3:30 PM Donate at the Bloodmobile parked on Library Walk. Appointments will be honored first. Schedule an appointment with the San Diego Blood Bank by logging onto http://www.sandiegobloodbank.org, click on Donate Blood select Appointments Provide Sponsor Code: UCPC *Walk-ins are welcome as openings are available* Picture identification is required.
11am
FLASH FITNESS WITH BRANDON- 
RIMAC STRETCHING AREA
Empower your fitness in a flash (only 20 
minutes!) with Brandon on Tuesdays at 11am in RIMAC. Walk in basis, FREE, located in at the 
RIMAC stretching areas. topics include: 10/29/19 
SINGLE LEG EXERCISES 11/5/19 COMPLETE CORE 
11/12/19 SHOULDER PAIN 101 11/19/19 THE KETTLEBELL SWING 11/26/19 THE PERFECT 
DEADLIFT & SQUAT
12pm
IN CELEBRATION OF TONI 
MORRISON- GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
The passing of Nobel laureate, Toni Morrison, in 
August 2019, has been felt as an irreplaceable loss by many who were inspired by the power and beauty of her writing, her advocacy for Black writers, and the incisive and uncompromising commentary on race in the United States in her novels, essays and interviews. Join us for a panel of scholars who will read from Toni Morrisons works and reflect on her impact. This event is free and open to the public. Light refreshments will be served.
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(11:30am
HALLOWEEN COSTUME CONTEST, 
PRESENTED BY THE UCSD 
BOOKSTORE - PRICE CENTER 
PLAZA
UC San Diego Bookstore Costume Contest Enter 
the Annual UC San Diego Bookstore Costume Contest! Great prizes, DJ, free candy and photo booth - lots of spooky fun! 4 categories to choose from: - Funniest - Scariest - Most Creative - Best Group! 1st prizes: $100 Bookstore shopping Spree 2nd prizes: $50 Bookstore shopping Spree Thursday, October 31st Sign ups at 11:30am, contest starts at 11:45am Price Center Plaza
7:30pm
DVC PRESENTS - HALLOWEEN: 
SONIC DOOM - PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOM EAST
A paranormal costume dance party unlike 
anything mortal eyes have ever seen! DVC is bringing you a Halloween-themed music and dance event featuring our frightening and unearthly talented student DJs who will play spooky music ranging from EDM/Trance/Dubstep/Techno/House etc. Raise from your grave and fly in on your broomstick because this dance party is to die or. Bones will be rattling, jack-o-lanterns will be jumping, and ghosts will be grooving! Free entrance granted for UCSD students with valid ID and guest +1s. Show up in a Halloween costume that is spook, funny, creative, and silly, but most importantly respectful of others. Line-up 7:30 Perez de Leon 8:00 SUPPA 8:45 Argon 9:37 Infinite BeatsTUE10.29
THU10.31
7am
LGBTQ+ JOSHUA TREE ADVENTURE 
- JOSHUA TREE
Join Outback Adventures for a car camping and 
hiking trip in Joshua Tree National Park made especially for LGBTQ+ students and community members. To inquire about a scholarship for this trip please email topperman@ucsd.edu. DATES: Saturday, Nov 2nd 2019 7:00 AM until Sunday, Nov 3rd 2019 5:00 PM PRICING: Earlybird registration by October 16 / Regular UCSD Students & Rec Members - $115 / 130 Non-Members - $140 / 150 PRE-TRIP MEETING: Wednesday, Oct 30th 2019 6:00-7:00 PM @ Outback Rental Shop
9am
COLLEGE DEBT MANAGEMENT 
WORKSHOP - ROOM 113, UCSD 
EXTENSION UNIVERSITY CITY 
Most college graduates leave school with 
student loans that will need to be repaid over time. Its important to understand what happens during repayment so that you can have a realistic budget that takes into account your other expenses, allows you to make your payments on-time to build your credit, and helps you keep your interest paid under control until your loans are paid off. SAT11.02MON10.28
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcome! Yoga Mats are provided! 
Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
10am
DESTRESS MONDAY - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
DeStress Mondays....ahhh, Mondays.... Mondays 
can be stressful, so start your week on a high note 
with FREE tea and snacks! Come destress with us 
EVERY MONDAY this fall quarter! Time: 10:00 AM 
to 1:00 PM Location: Price Center Commuter 
Lounge FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID
12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS -CULTURAL CENTER
An informal drop- in group designed for Asian 
American students to discuss topics relevant to 
their experiences in a supportive environment. 
Bring your lunch and join us!
1pm
DISCOVER YOUR VALUES - CROSS - 
BEAR ROOM
Our values are both deeply personal and often 
universal. Discover what you value most and 
consider how your values consciously and 
unconsciously guide your actions and inform your 
decisions in this interactive, activity-based 
workshop
3pm
BE THE CHANGE YOU WANT TO SEE 
- CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
An interactive workshop that describes what 
being an ally means and activating social change
7pm
REC GIVES BACK: FOOD DRIVE - 
RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 2
Donate food at any Rec front desk and afterwards 
treat yourself to a FREE Glow in the Dark Yoga class, hosted by the Recreation Leadership Council. Suggestion donation of 8 food items. All donations benefit the Triton Food Pantry.
8pm
THEO CROKER - THE LOFT
Trumpeter/composer Theo Croker, is hailed as one the great promises of Black American Music. Star People Nation (his upcoming LP on Sony Masterworks) isnt a sonic departure from his critically acclaimed release Escape Velocity, but a continuation toward a much grander musical legacy that is pushing the realms of futuristic melody, rhythm, and vibratory enlightenment. Well-versed in the swing, bop, and modal styles of acoustic jazz, Crokers own music reveals a love of organic funk, soul, and gooey, groove-oriented hip-hop. He is creating jazz that is both timeless and of the moment (Wall Street Journal).FRI11.01WED10.30The Loft
1pm
INCLUSION, MATTERING, AND 
MARGINALITY – MARSHALL ROOM
What does it mean to be inclusive of others? 
How does it feel to be included, that you matter? What happens when you are 
marginalized? Engage with your peers and 
share strategies to create inclusive 
environments and help others feel that they matter.
2pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN, DE -STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE 
Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management. Come to 
The Zone for a one-on-one Biofeedback 
demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. And if you have time, get a free de-stress massage from the R&R Squad too! Check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs!
5pm
DIEDRICK BRACKENS GUEST 
LECTURE - VISUAL ARTS FACILITY 306 PERFORMANCE SPACE
Diedrick Brackens is the 2019 
Longenecker-Roth Artist in Residence at the Department of Visual Arts. Thoughtfully employing the language of weaving and textile making, Diedrick Brackens explores the intersections of identity and sociopolitical issues in the United States. Brackens uses calculated woven algorithms that stem from the cultural histories of African, American, and European textiles to generate his intricate tapestries, seeking to highlight the complexities of African-American identity while also focusing on the loom and its significance to cultural production.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
OCT 28 - NOV 3
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CANDY BARSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Thereabouts
5. ___ diem10. Prison section
14. Frank’s place
15. Fake fat brand
16. Nephew of Donald Duck17. Give a hand18. Mirthful
19. Norse war deity
20. Make available electronically
23. Suburban trailer?24. Fannie ___25. What one must do if the backhoe 
won’t work?
33. Tel Aviv airport34. Pope known as ‘’The Great’’35. ‘’Clean and ___’’ (1988)36. Son of Zeus and Hera
38. Internet sales and marketing
40. Mafia soldier
41. Pleasing view43. Synthetic fiber45. Popular family card game46. Be prepared to do this on a picnic?49. Mother Teresa, for one50. Bind51. They can be found in 20, 25 and 
46-Across
58. Three of a kind?59. Wiser companion60. Drummer’s accomplishment63. Ness followers64. ‘’___ No Good’’ (Ronstadt)65. Navy color66. Wine-making vessels67. Mount68. Pilates alternativeDOWN
1. Curious2. Riddle-me-___3. High-five, e.g.
4. Offshore structure
5. American sports car
6. Et ___ (and others)7. ‘’___ ‘em and weep!’’8. Window section
9. Place in a sepulcher
10. All out
11. Quattro maker12. Equestrian’s brake13. Unit of force
21. ‘’Miss ___ Regrets’’ (Porter tune)
22. Votes against
25. Column style26. That is, in Latin27. Central Asian mountain range
28. Absorb in class
29. Some cuts of meat
30. More or less31. Glowing signs32. First Bond film33. Volcanic emission37. Doubles39. Highly educated42. Chills and fever44. Wilderness home47. Bugs48. Within reach51. It displays more lines per frame 
(Abbr.)
52. ‘’___ la Douce’’ (1963)53. Insect repellent ingredient54. Coalesce55. Together, in music56. A ___ pittance57. Sans assistance61. Pull laboriously62. Grazing land for the flockBIKES
92 Robinson SST Loop Tail BMX Bike - 
SST LOOP TAIL ‘92 Robinson Chromoly BMX BIKE “VINTAGE” almost like New Conditon good enough for collectors edi -
tion Must See to appreciate Pro Style Chromoly FRAME, Oversized Axles, Super Grip Pedals, Pro Heavy Duty Crank, 20” BMX Wheels, asking $ 250.00 Cash or….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2011 Giant TTCR Advanced 1 - You are 
bidding on a Lightly Used Giant TCR Carbon Ultegra Build. Bike is in excep-tional condition protected by Frameskin protective 3M frame wrap. Specifications below;Retail Price $3200.00Frame - Giant Carbon Frame & Fork. Color- Carbon Black & Blue - Giant Full Carbon Rims/Hubs - DT Swiss R1800 Limited….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information 
Haro “Backtrail x 1 “BMX Bike in Excellent 
Condition Like New - HARO “BACKTRAIL X one RYAN NYQUIST EDITION” BMX FREE STYLE Bike EXCELLENT ! Condition “RIDE WITH THE BIG DOGS !” 19” center bar PRO FRAME,195 x 20” BMX Wheels has Self Lubricating Sealed Bearings, Oversize Axles, Free Spinning Rear gear, Hand Brake 360 degree Rotating Handle Bars, Super Grip ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Sales Management Trainee - The Opportunity: Help families in your com-munity while working in a lucrative indus-try. The roofing repair industry enjoys con-sistent, rapid growth due to annual storms and expanding residential sprawl that cre-ate bigger targets for severe weather. You could earn six figures while helping homeowners recover from storm dam -
age.Premier Roofing Company provides an award-winning Sales….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information 
Systems Engineer-Sustainment Data 
Quality and Integration Management - The selected candidate will be a mem -
ber of a high-performing team support -
ing F35 Data Quality and Integration Management (DQIM) and will be respon -
sible for providing technical Engineering knowledge and skills supporting F-35 Sustainment Data Product Integration &amp; Delivery (SDP I&amp;D). The candi-date must be self-motivated with a strong work ethic, time-management….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Marketing Assistant-Entry Level - We are a 
fast-growing online marketing company looking for an enthusiastic Marketing Assistant to help fill the needs of our Marketing Department. You should have a can-do attitude and be able to work well in a team environment. Candidates must have experience in marketing with websites, social media….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS
2017 Chevrolet Camaro 2dr cpe 1ss - Military Discount. $0 Down. Over 250 Customized Cars.LiftedTrucks & SUVs. SeHablaEspanol . Bad Credits Ok. Best Selection of Quality Vehicles in….  ucsd -guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation 
1999 Buick Regal for Sale by Owner - 1999 
Buick regal GS 1 Original owner clean Carfax with 77,000 original miles the car 
originally came with a supercharged V6 
engine it is fully loaded with cold a/c 
leather seats... Features: A/c, Anti-theft alarm….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 Nissan Versa White - Crumple 
Zones Rear|Crumple Zones Front|Phone Wireless Data Link Bluetooth|Driver Details System|Stability Control|Phone Hands Free|Seats - Driver Seat Manual Adjustments: Height|Windows Rear Defogger|Suspension Front Shock Type: Gas Shock Absorbers|Windows Lockout Button|Windows Front Wipers: Variable Intermittent|Windows Laminated Glass: Acoustic|Suspension Front Arm Type: ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
GET INVOLVED
APPLY NOW FOR OPEN POSITIONS WITHIN ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Visit as.ucsd.edu to apply. Applications due: (10/4-11/1)• CHIEF OF STAFF
• MARKETING STRATEGIST
• GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS 
   DIRECTOR
• JUDICIAL BOARD MEMBER
AND MORE 
Varies by position SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 10am-3pm
Wednesday: 11am-3pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-4pm
Friday: 1 2pm-5pmFALL 2019
Last week, the UC San Diego 
women’s volleyball team faced 
off against two California 
Collegiate Athletic Association South Division opponents — the California State University, 
Sonoma Seawolves and the 
California State University, 
Humboldt Lumberjacks — in 
back-to-back road matches. The 
Tritons came out of their road series with one win and one loss, 
dropping the first match against 
Sonoma State and winning the second against Humboldt State.
UCSD had a disappointing 
performance against Sonoma State, losing 1–3 (19–25, 25–14, 
16–25, 19–25). In the match, the Tritons kept things close, scoring 
just 10 fewer points overall than 
the Seawolves. The team did not 
attack well, ultimately finishing 
with 21 errors to 41 kills. 
UCSD did bounce back in 
its second match of the week, 
sweeping Humboldt State 3–0. 
The Tritons were led by junior outside hitter Gina Cortesi, who 
recorded 9 kills, 8 digs, and only 
2 errors, and by University of 
Hawaii transfer and sophomore 
outside hitter Trinity Castaneda, who paced the team with 10 kills.
UCSD’s hopes at a playo ff berth 
became a little more unlikely 
after last week’s loss. The Tritons 
remain firmly in fourth place in 
CCAA South Division standings: 
two conference wins behind the 
No. 2 California State University, 
Los Angeles Golden Eagles and tied with the No. 3 California State 
University, San Marcos Cougars 
— UCSD is lower in the standings 
because of a tie-breaker. 
Even if the Tritons win all 
their games in the final leg of the 
season, there is a chance they do 
not make it into the postseason. 
To have a shot, the Tritons not 
only need to win out in their final 
three games but also hope that CSULA and CSUSM do not stay 
perfect at the end of the season.
This week, the Tritons stay at home to take on the Cougars. If UCSD wins this match, it has a 
chance to move into third place 
and be one step closer to a playo ff 
spot.Women’s Volleyball splits road trip, playoff 
chances take another hit 
Remember  to  cheer  for your  
UCSD  SPORTS  TEAMS!
Follow  our twitter coverage at  
@uCSD_sportswesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 28, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Cal State San Marcos
at Long Beach Stateat Cal State Dominguez Hillsat Cal State Dominguez Hillsat San Diego StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball 
M Water Polo 
W Soccer
M Soccer
M Basketball 7PM6PM
4:30PM
7PM7PM11/2
10/3010/3110/3110/30
In their 88th matchup since 
1975, the UC San Diego Tritons 
took down the Air Force Academy Falcons 14–9 at Canyonview Aquatic Center on Friday, Oct. 25. The Tritons and Falcons have 
plenty of history over the last half-century, including an upset win for the Falcons in the 2012 Western Water Polo Association Championship. While many of the coaches remember this match and the signi ficance of 
this rivalry, much of that history is lost on the players.  
“[The players] don’t listen to us 
[coaches], ” 40-year head coach Denny Harper said before the game. “But from my perspective, there’s no question that this [matchup] is still considered a rivalry. ”
But even without the boost 
of playing to avenge past losses, UCSD still dominated for much of the match. The Tritons 
featured a balanced attack on offense. The team netted either 3 
or 4 goals in all four quarters of the match, with seven di fferent 
players pitching in. Senior utility player Skyler Munatones led UCSD with 4 goals, with no other Triton scoring more than twice. 
“That’s kind of been our deal 
this year, we’ve got a ton of guys who’ve scored over 20 to 25 goals, ” Harper said a fter the game 
of his team’s balanced scoring. “I know when we’re playing against a team with balanced scoring it’s kind of hard to game plan for 
them because you’re not sure 
who’s going to be chipping in. ”
The match began quickly, with 
UCSD scoring 2 goals in the first 
two and a half minutes of the first quarter. On the Tritons’ first 
possession of the match, senior team captain Cooper Milton scored, and just over a minute later, Munatores stole the ball and went on a fast break to score the second goal of the match. 
Much of the rest of the first half 
was taken up by UCSD getting five-man stops. The Tritons 
committed 8 exclusions in the first half compared to Air Force’s 
4. Despite the disadvantage, the Tritons did a great job of keeping the Falcons from capitalizing on their power-play chances, only allowing one power-play goal in what was a physical match. 
Heading into the match, Harper 
pointed out his team’s defense as “a little bit of a concern, ” but their performance against Air 
Force, especially in these five-
man situations, lessened those 
worries. “Ultimately, I thought that the defense was great because we didn’t give up that many goals, especially in the first 
half, ” Harper said postgame. 
The Tritons led by 6 goals for 
much of the match, only faltering once, redshirt senior goalkeeper Jack Turner was removed from the match with under 2 minutes to go. Turner, a member of Team USA at the World University Games this past summer, made 6 big saves in the win, with 2 of the 7 goals he allowed coming via penalty shot. 
With 11 straight wins, 
UCSD, now 6–0 in the WWPA, will travel to California State University, Long Beach on Wednesday, Oct. 30 before going into the heavily anticipated Nov. 9 matchup with the UC Davis Aggie’s at Canyonview Aquatic Center. 
Men’s Water Polo outguns Air Force, 
extends win-streak to 11 
Jack  dorfman  sports@ucsdguardian.org
PHOTO BY TANYA BHARATULA
When the Houston Astros 
clinched their bid to the World 
Series, there was a classic celebration in the Astros’ clubhouse. Champagne and beer, goggles and cameras, and management and players all blended together. 
But the celebration did not last 
as long as it should have, at least for some. A drunken Brandon 
Taubman, the assistant general 
manager for Houston, berated a group of female reporters regarding Roberto Osuna, a pitcher who committed domestic violence a few years ago. 
Taubman told the reporters 
about how he was glad to have acquired the closer, yelling in their direction, though he and the Astros later claimed he was not targeting them, but instead 
that he was defending his 
player. The Astros and Taubman 
declined to comment on a story on the incident by Sports Illustrated’s Stephanie Apstein, and hours later the Astros and Taubman said her reporting was unfounded and dangerous.For the next few days, even as 
the Astros dropped the first two 
games of the World Series to the visiting Washington Nationals, the narrative still surrounded Taubman’s actions. But before Game Three, the Astros fired 
Taubman without issuing an apology for trading for Osuna or for nearly ending Apstein’s career, one of the victims of 
Taubman’s tirade and the initial 
reporter to cover the story. This 
made me start thinking about the case and the larger structures at play. 
There are quite a few players 
who, over the last few years, 
have been accused and convicted 
on counts of domestic violence playing, not just in MLB, but also in the NFL and the NBA. In many of these cases, video evidence 
has been unavailable, but even in 
cases where it has been, players like Ray Rice and Kareem Hunt have still been signed by NFL teams in need of running backs. 
Similar situations have played 
out in MLB involving Osuna and another closer in Aroldis Chapman, both of whom were traded to teams seeking a World Series title despite the cases against them. 
None of these cases are morally 
permissible. Kids and adults alike around the world idolize athletes, and if athletes are allowed to continue to play professionally and to make millions of dollars doing so in the most competitive 
leagues in the world, they should 
be contractually, if not morally, obligated to be role models. 
By acting in this manner, 
obviously they are very negatively affecting their spouses and 
girlfriends. But their actions also 
have the potential to indoctrinate 
social acceptability surrounding domestic violence within the sports world. 
It seems so obvious, but if it 
were so cut and dry, then why have teams refused to act? Why have professional leagues and team executives not refused to add players who have committed domestic violence? 
Excommunicating players from 
their leagues may be the correct answer, but that may first need 
to be bridged by rehabilitation. Professional executives need to create programs for players who have committed these actions. Players should go through these programs a fter they’ve been 
suspended or released for this conduct before they are made eligible to be resigned. That way, 
at least there is an intermediate 
step that both disincentivizes 
domestic violence while also emphasizing to fans and players alike that it will not be tolerated.
Triton 
Timeout
How to deal with 
domestic violence 
in sportsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu