The UC San Diego Library 
joined other Chicano activists and 
organizations at the 49th annual Chicano Park Day Celebration to celebrate the history of the park on April 20. Under the theme of 
“Danzantes, Protectors of Our 
Traditions and Chicano Park, 500 Y ears of Anti-Colonial Struggle, ” the festival showcased the culture and traditions of the San Diego Chicano community.
The festival included music from 
several local bands, as well as dance performances from groups including the Ballet Folklórico Aztlán de California State University, Northridge, and the Danza Azteca / Calpulli Mexihca. Speakers representing the Brown Berets and Mujeres en 
Resistencia, two local Chicano political 
organizations, were also present.
The UCSD Library was among 
the groups and organizations tabling at the event. Cristela Garcia-Spitz, a digital initiatives librarian at the UCSD Library, said that the library originally got involved with the Chicano Park Day Celebration five years ago in order to promote their newly digitized Chicano Studies collections.
“The [UCSD] Library received a 
National Historical Publications & Records Commission grant in 2012 to 
digitize the Herman Baca Papers, and 
we wanted to get the word out to the community and demo the website, ” A.S. Off-Campus Senator and attempted A.S. presidential candidate Joseph “Joey” Giltner spent at least $968 more than the allowed 
amount for candidates and took steps to conceal his spending, according to information the UCSD Guardian 
has obtained from multiple sources. Giltner never 
appeared on the ballot after being deemed ineligible to run and later disqualified, though he appealed these decisions for the duration of the election period.
According to section 4.2 of the election code, slates 
and independent candidates are limited to using $2,300 of their own income on the election. The official number that Giltner listed for total expenditure was $1,123.96, with $137.35 coming from donated items, 
but documentation indicates that Giltner underreported 
his spending and that the actual figure surpasses $3,200.  
Prior to his current term as a senator and his 
presidential candidacy, Giltner was involved in A.S. Council when he first attended UC San Diego from 2013 to 2016. He left the university to “pursue a career in corporate America, ” but re-entered at the start of this academic year after attending California State University, East Bay and UC Berkeley.   
Giltner announced his run for president of A.S. 
Council on March 16 as part of the slate Tritons United, which he assembled and headed. However, after Giltner filed his candidacy, it was determined that he was ineligible to vie for the position, which he told the Guardian was a result of not meeting the 2.5 minimum GPA requirement. Giltner appealed to have his transfer grades included in the calculation to become eligible, which the Judicial Board granted on April 10. 
Despite the favorable ruling from J-Board, the 
Elections Committee had already disqualified the Tritons United slate and consequently Giltner from running on April 8 due to multiple violations of the election code committed by Giltner. The other Tritons United candidates disassociated from the slate on April 7 and were permitted to run as independents. 
According to the election code, candidates are 
required to provide records of all campaign expenditure to the A.S. Elections Committee, and based on an investigation of the spending report for Tritons United that was written by Giltner, Giltner doctored some of the receipts he included to deliberately conceal the true amount he spent on at least three listed expenditures 
and failed to report at least five other purchases for 
which he was required to by the election code. 
In addition to numerous supposedly donated items, 
Giltner alleged that he purchased 115 shirts for $431, $98 for a custom Tritons United Snapchat filter, 16 2’ x 4’ banners for $156.60, 2,500 stickers for $117.23, and 2,000 rave cards for $183.83.  The Guardian received the receipts he entered with the Tritons United spending report to prove his purchases for the shirts, banners, and 
Snapchat filter. 
According to Giltner’s receipt for the shirts, although 
he indicated that the quantity was 115 on the spending 
report spreadsheet, he paid Big Frog Custom T-Shirts $240.00 for 85 t-shirts and $60 for 15 tanks, without tax. However, an employee of Big Frog wrote in an email to A.S. President-Elect Eleanor Grudin, who verified the receipt with the company, that the receipt from Giltner was actually an “estimate/quote. ”
“We never received payment for that invoice, ” the 
employee, who also responded to a quote request from the Guardian, wrote to Grudin. 
A partial photocopy of an invoice and a photocopy 
of a receipt printed from a cash register at the store that were given to the Guardian by former Tritons United member Danielle Viviani reveal that the true cost was a total of $1,912.56 for 100 t-shirts and 50 tanks, including tax. 
At a unit price of $8.95 per 2’x4’ banner with next-day 
turnaround, the 16 banners were purchased by Giltner from Digital Room, Inc., according to the screenshot of a receipt that Giltner provided as evidence of his spending. This receipt was fraudulent as well — using the item number listed on the receipt, the Guardian received a copy of the original invoice for Giltner’s purchase from NextDayFlyers.com, a subsidiary of Digital Room, Inc., which states that the unit price was VOLUME 52, ISSUE 24  MONDA Y , APRIL 22, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Implements 
New Sustainability 
Programs to reach 
Zero Waste by 2020 
The programs are in an effort to 
reach net carbon neutrality in 2025.
SAN DIEGO
UCSD Library Celebrates Chicano Park Day Over Weekend
Dancers perform at Chicano Park Day in Barrio Logan  // Photo by Francesca HummlerUC San Diego Facilities 
Management and UCSD Information 
Technology Services have implemented several new programs in an effort to reach the UCSD Zero Waste 2020 
goal. In addition to already existing 
programs, these new initiatives include an installation in the UCSD mobile app that notifies users when there is leftover food from campus events, as well as the “Bin Buddy” , which strives to minimize office waste by decreasing the size of the trash can. 
Zero Waste 2020 is a program 
designed to create a more sustainable campus, with “at least 90 percent diversion of materials from landfill or incineration. ” According to the program, UCSD outlines this through reducing total municipal solid waste generation, ending the sale, procurement or distribution of Expanded Polystyrene, and by 
observing greenhouse gas emissions 
from waste management.
Since 2008, several UCSD 
committees have published annual Climate Action Plans that set guidelines and programs for staff, students, and faculty that contribute to reaching net carbon neutrality by 2025.
In March 2007, the University of 
California administration joined the Second Nature’s Carbon Commitment, also known as the American College and Universities President Climate Commitment, when the former University of California President 
Robert Carr Dynes signed the 
University of California system as a signatory participant in the ACUPCC, a network of colleges and universities who pledge to mitigate climate change through campus-wide initiatives. 
According to the UCSD 2008 
Climate Action Plan, “The ACUPCC includes a number of requirements, 
including the development of a Climate 
Action Plan to establish a target date and interim milestones for reaching climate neutrality. In part, this Climate Action Plan was created in response to the requirements in the ACUPCC. ” 
The UCSD 2019 Climate Action 
Plan has been updated with UCSD’s strategies for reaching carbon 
neutrality, which include categories 
such as Green House Gas Inventory, Mitigation Strategies, and W ater and W aste. 
The newly installed notification 
on the UCSD mobile app, which also provides information on shuttles and dining options, now sends notifications when there is leftover food from campus events. This is 
meant to combat food insecurity at 
UCSD. 
A.S. Assistant Director of 
Administration John Weng brought the idea of the notification system to the Triton Food Pantry managers after attending a system-wide meeting for the Global Food Initiative in Spring 2017. At the meeting, he learned 
that the University of California, San 
Francisco has a similar text-based By Lauren  Hol t  Managing EditorA.S. COUNCIL
A.S. Senator Exceeded Election Spending Limit, Faked ReceiptsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
The UCSD Guardian sits 
down with prospective 
students to discuss what 
weighs on their minds 
before commiting to out 
illustrious campus. 
MADELINE   ALBRIGHT
SDAFFA  Poor  Model  for  students
OUR  st aff's  f a voritesOpinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“The U.S., represented 
by Ms. Albright, was 
blocking any shipments 
of medicine, food and 
other basic needs, even 
blankets, or car tires to 
30 million Iraqis because 
Albright claimed it can be 
used by the army.MONDAY
 H 68 L 58
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 59
TUESDAY
H 72 L 60
THURSDAY
H 73 L 59
BOOK BUYBACK.............4
NEW TRITONS..................7
FIRST TATTOOS.............11
TINDER TYPES..............12
SOFTBALL.....................15CAMPUS
Professor Wael Al-Delaimy
PAGE 8Saturday’s festival marked the Librarians’ fifth year of promoting the Chicano Studies collections at the event.
BY  Jacob Sutherland
Editorial Assistant BY  Madeline Leon
Senior Staff writerA TRITON 
IS BORN  
Features, page 6
See LIBRARIANS,  page 2 See ZERO WASTE,  page 3See GILTNER,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
OHHHH! By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
That’s Madeline Albright, you dumb bitch.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Rivka Gershovich
Richard Lu
Susanti Sarkar 
Timothy Deng
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Tina Chen
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports Editor
Features Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle EditorPhoto EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Tina Chen, Z.Y. Lin
Copy Readers
Alex Rickard, Asiyah Syed, 
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 United Student Against Sweatshops 
Local 94 at UC San Diego demonstrated 
against the unfair treatment of UC workers on Triton Day, April 13. The students marched along Library W alk, 
past Center Hall, and into the Town 
Square where prospective students and their families were concentrated. 
On Triton Day, admitted students 
and their families congregated on campus to familiarize themselves with the campus. Almera says USAS decided to demonstrate on this day because it wanted to reveal the reality 
of labor issues on campus, not to deter 
students from UCSD. 
“We are asking the school to listen 
to us, and we are telling them that we refuse to give in, ” Almera told the Guardian.“We want to bring more awareness to the campus and show the school that we are not afraid to expose what they are doing, and we 
will continue to push pressure against 
them, ” Almera told the Guardian.  The student demonstrators began 
their demonstrations at around 10:30 a.m. in a Housing Dining Hospitality panel held in Center Hall. The venue of this info session, Center Hall 101 was occupied by around 200 admitted 
students and their parents. During the 
Q&A section, USAS member, Prajay Lolabattu asked the HDH official leading the discussion why they treat student workers at HDH facilities unfairly and cover it up. 
The HDH official giving the 
presentation refused to answer this question and denied the relevance of 
this question to the ongoing panel. 
Lolabattu was then directed to another staff present.
Meanwhile, there were murmurs 
in the crowd, and someone shouted, “Shut up! You are wasting our time!”
After the session was over, more 
volunteers were requested to guard the venue. Azriel Almera, a member 
of USAS, said she was pulled aside by 
incoming students who were attending the conference, asking what they could do to help. 
The student demonstrators then marched around the center area of the campus where they handed out fliers and chanted when they passed by the crowds. 
According to Almera, while 
many students seemed interested in 
the demonstration and were open to 
conversations, some parents did not let their children take the fliers handed out by the student demonstrators.
Humberto Rojo, an incoming 
student interested in a history major who witnessed the demonstration told the Guardian, “I think it’s good that they are saying their opinion. I think 
it’s good that they are fighting for it. ”
Rojo also expressed appreciation 
for the political atmosphere,and that 
the demonstration did not negatively affect his experience on campus.
“I really like the campus and I 
still want to come here. I think it’s also interesting that UC San Diego is allowing them to do that. ” 
The USAS demonstration on 
Triton Day is one of the most recent demonstrations for workers’ issues on campus. Only three days before the Triton Day demonstration, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFSCME local 3299, organized a demonstration against Unfair Labour Practice. The Unfair Labor Practice charge was filed over incidents of retaliation and 
bribery against workers who went on 
strike. 
Almera said tensions between 
labor unions and the UC system has escalated. After two years of negotiating with the university for workers’ fair treatment and contracts, the labor union did not get a satisfying result 
from the university. The University 
of California administration has offered a final settlement with a 3 percent wage increase and a one-time lump sum payment of 750$ in 2018. However, this settlement was rejected by AFSCME leaders and there has not been another settlement since then.
BY  Vivian Yang
Contributing writer
Vivian y ang  yiy288@ucsd.eduUCSD
Student Demonstrators Protest the Poor Treatment of  UC Workers at Triton Day
The protestors demonstrated in an HDH forum as well as around Townsquare and Library Walk, drawing mixed student responses.
Garcia-Spitz told the UCSD Guardian. “Herman Baca, a Chicano rights activist from National City known for his community-based grassroots organizing, donated his archives to 
[UCSD] so that others might learn 
about the struggle for civil rights and political and judicial equality. ”
Lynda Claassen, the director 
of special collections and studies at the UCSD Library, explained to the 
Guardian that the Chicano Studies 
collections have been utilized and developed further over the years.
“In addition to the extensive 
manuscript collections, … both Special Collections & Archives and the general circulating collection actively collect materials in support of Chicano Studies, ” Claassen said. “Materials are incorporated into class assignments, 
and at least two UCSD dissertations 
have focused on the unique materials held in the Library. ”
The theme of “Danzantes” refers to 
the Danza Azteca / Calpulli Mexhica, a local dance group originally created 
with the mission to “preserve and 
disseminate the ancestral values of the Chichimeca, Otomi, and Azteca call dance. ” Tommie Camarillo, a chairperson for the Chicano Park Steering Committee, explained the historical significance of the dance group with Chicano Park.
“The reason we came up with the 
theme of the Danzantes is because 
they are always there when needed, ” 
Camarillo said. “They were there guarding our Chicano Park Flag when the [racists] came to Chicano Park and the Danzantes gathered around our flag, and [they] blessed the park … its 
people, and the community. ”
Chicano Park was originally 
created in 1970 after community 
members from Barrio Logan protested the construction of the San Diego-Coronado Bridge, which had been constructed a year prior and bisected the community. Local artists and activists soon began painting murals on the bridge supports dedicated to 
the community and Chicano culture, 
a practice which has continued to this day. Chicano Park was recently designated a National Historic Landmark in 2016.
“Danzantes” Theme Chosen to Honor Local Dance Group who Aided in 1970 Chicano Park Protests
▶ LIBRARIANS , from page 1
jacob sutherland  jasuther@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
actually $28.95, including tax, and the 
total was $507.20, more than three times the cost Giltner reported.
Giltner attributed the higher cost 
on these receipts to the fact that some 
of the receipts may have “a bunch of 
items combined. ” However, he did not elaborate on what these other items would be and why they differed from the receipts he submitted This also does not account for the fact that 
the number and type of banners he 
reported buying from Digital Room, Inc. are the same as the number and 
type of banners on the actual invoice.  
The underreported cost of the 
Snapchat filter was the only incident of 
alleged false reporting actually heard by the A.S. Elections Committee. In a grievance brought by Grudin, Grudin provided photographic evidence of the custom Tritons United filter outside Starbucks, in front of Geisel Library, by Center Hall, and inside 
the Guardian’s office in the Original 
Student Center. Grudin additionally submitted a screenshot directly from Snapchat’s website showing the cost of a custom filter throughout much of the UCSD campus to be approximately $400 instead of the $98 Giltner listed. 
This evidence was accepted by the 
Elections Committee, which found Tritons United to have violated the 
election code.
While the filter map done 
by Grudin extends to parts of the 
campus beyond what she provided photographic evidence for and what Giltner himself submitted as the 
covered area, the Guardian found that 
even using roughly the same area as Giltner, which only covers part of Price 
Center, Library W alk, and the entrance 
to Geisel Library, the cost would still 
surpass his reported amount and actually be around $187.
According to Giltner, this 
discrepancy is because he used personal connections to create the filter. He declined to provide evidence of this, stating that he wants to preserve these connections.
Without the receipts submitted by 
Giltner for the rave cards and stickers, the Guardian was unable to verify the costs he reported for either item.
In addition to falsifying the Tritons United spending report and some of its accompanying receipts, Giltner also failed to report purchases for 15 picket signs, 15 additional banners, three photographers, one videographer, and 
Tritons United shirt pins, Viviani told 
the Guardian. The cost of the pins, banners, videographer, and two of the photographers is unknown to the former Tritons United members, but one of the photographers disclosed 
to Viviani that he received $450 from 
Giltner for his work.
As the work from the photographers 
and videographer was not received 
until April 1, Giltner explained to the 
Guardian, he did not have to report it for a full week in accordance with the election code, which is why it does not appear on the report. As of April 15, there is still no entry for these services listed in the Tritons United spending report, and as early as March 11, professional photos with 
credits to Amanda Lam were posted of 
the candidates on the Tritons United Facebook page.   
The picket signs were $22.47 each, 
according to a receipt from former Tritons United candidate Karsyn Stewart. Stewart paid for seven of the signs, which appear on her receipt, and Giltner covered the remaining eight, adding an additional $179.76 to his 
total expenditure. 
Giltner told the Guardian that both 
the picket signs and pins were not 
actually used during the course of the campaign and therefore did not need to be reported. Viviani confirmed that 
the signs were likely not carried, nor 
were the buttons distributed. 
Using Giltner’s listed prices for 
the Snapchat filter, rave cards, and 
stickers and not including the picket 
signs, Giltner definitively spent at least $3,268.87, or more than $968.87 over the spending limit, not including the price of the remaining banners, two photographers, and videographer for which the costs are still unknown.  
The former members of Tritons 
United collectively believe $3,268.87 
is likely only a fraction of the amount 
Giltner actually spent throughout the election.
“We are in agreement that we 
believe Joey spent, conservatively, $4,000-$5,000, ” Viviani said on behalf of the disaffiliated candidates. 
Viviani expressed that it is unclear 
to her why Giltner went to such lengths during his campaign.
“I may never understand why 
$4000+ was spent to win an AS position, but at least that same individual who falsified receipts to hide said spending from the disaffiliated members of [Tritons United] and the 
rest of the student body will never 
be able to control the $6,000,000 AS budget composed of all of our student 
activity fees, ” Viviani stated.
Due to being held in violation of 
the election code for also booking a 
spot for Tritons United on Library W alk through his position as an A.S. senator, Giltner was impeached from his position on April 17. Giltner had planned to resign, but the agenda was reordered to allow A.S. Senate to hold the impeachment vote before Giltner 
could do so.
system for their students. Weng then 
worked with UCSD IT Services to start a similar program at UCSD. 
“We explored a text service but 
ultimately landed at integrating it with the UC San Diego app, ” Weng said. “Our basic needs are at the absolute baseline of what we need as human beings. As someone who coordinates events with our students, I’m also aware of how hard it is to estimate how many people show up to events and I hate seeing food go to waste. ”
Another upcoming campus program 
meant to limit waste is the Bin Buddy program, which took flight in January 2019 and is scheduled to be completed in mid-2019. UCSD Facilities has been replacing office desk-side trash cans with a smaller can that latches onto the recycle bin. Some office employees have 
liked the idea. “Coming from an environmentally-focused research organization, I was not surprised that 
we started a new policy for the bins, ” 
said SIO Communications Intern Tricia Dutton. “It makes us visually see the amount of trash we waste every day, and therefore, could lead to more sustainable habits. ” 
However, some other employees 
have found it difficult adjusting to the program. “It just takes getting used 
to. It’s small, ” department of physics 
Student Affairs Manager Catherine McConney said. “Since [the bin] doesn’t have the liner anymore, I have to think about it more and whether I need to walk to the kitchen to throw something away. ” 
Several past and present HDH programs have also been implemented to limit food waste in the dining halls. The clean pre-consumer food waste is collected by back-hall dining staff 
and sent to the Mira Mar Greenery 
as compost. In the past, the dining halls also saw a post-consumer food compost. 
However, according to Student 
Sustainability Collective Director of Internal Development Nhat Nguyen, “the contamination was high enough for the Greenery to not accept the 
compost. ” 
While the dining halls may not 
compost all food waste, a pilot program 
in the Revelle dining hall 64 Degrees collects their own food waste to be sent to Roger’s Community Garden, where it is converted into fertilizer. 
Nguyen, who is also a representative for Strategic Initiatives at HDH Wellness and Engagement commented on how students can help mitigate food in the dining halls in order to 
reflect a culture of understanding in 
food and waste management. 
“The last thing we want to do is 
put out compost bins in the dining halls without a concerted and effective campaign for culture and education changes to the student population and have contamination, ” Nguyen stated. “If you ask dining what types of things 
they see thrown away, they will tell 
you that students routinely throw away large, heavy, reusable ceramic plates in the trash! It’s not uncommon nor rare; it happens to anything and everything that you could imagine. ” 
Nguyen noted that the Zero W aste 
2020 goal could be achieved by greater promoting this self-correcting culture through “marketing and student engagement. ” 
“We need students to self regulate 
but also we don’t need everyone to be experts about all things waste, ” Nguyen stated. “We just need them to be mindful of the things that are relevant such as what could be on their plate. ” 
The UCSD mobile app is available 
for both iOS and Android users. In addition to receiving the food notifications, students can also view 
a schedule of their classes and finals, 
find available parking, and track campus shuttle arrivals. 
Programs Include UCSD Mobile App Notifications to Students about Leftover Food from Campus Events and Bin Buddy. 
▶ ZERO WASTE , from page 1Viviani: At Least Giltner Will Never Control the $6 Million Budget of  A.S. Council Composed of  Student Activity Fees
▶ GILTNER , from page 1
Lauren  Hol t  managing@ucsdguardian.org
MADELINE Leon  m7Leon@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
I  was in a state of disbelief after 
reading a UC San Diego campus 
email indicating that Madeline 
Albright will be the commencement speaker for the class of 2019. It was 
rather traumatic for me personally to 
read her glorified biography in the 
email, that she or her aides must have 
written. That statement excluded the 
suffering, agony, and death of innocent people around the world that were 
caused by the policies she supported, 
advocated, and maintained during her 
tenure at the United Nations and as 
U.S. Secretary of State. 
One of the worst man-made 
disasters at the end of the last century 
that was not waged through violence, 
but caused more death and suffering than war, were the sanctions against 
Iraq from 1990 to 2003. In the 
aftermath of the invasion of Kuwait by 
Saddam Hussein, then the president 
and dictator of Iraq in 1991, a coalition 
of countries led by the U.S. waged 
a war that pushed back the army of 
Iraq out of Kuwait but also completely 
destroyed the infrastructure all over Iraq in a 40-day war campaign. The 
campaign involved 100,000 sorties 
that dropped close to 100,000 tons of 
bombs and estimated to have directly 
killed 100,000 Iraqi. But that death toll 
did not compare to the death toll due 
to the 13-year sanctions that followed. 
The sanctions were meant to last for 
six months to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction but were maintained 
for 13 years in an effort to support 
regime change and put pressure on 
Saddam even after most weapons of 
mass destruction were destroyed. We 
latere discovered that there were none 
left after Iraq’s invasion in 2003. 
The single most important advocate 
for these sanctions as a U.S. ambassador 
to the U.N.,and later as Secretary of 
State, was Madeline Albright. On the 
face of it seemed like a legitimate non-
violent mean of maintaining control over Iraq and its dictator. However, as Ms. Albright took her position as 
the U.S. representative the U.N. and 
Security Council in 1993, it became 
clear by 1995 based on World Health 
Organization and UNICEF data that 
the sanctions were only hurting the 
Iraqi people and causing death and 
high mortality rates among infants 
and the general public, and Saddam was not affected living his usual luxury 
life. One report after another was 
appearing by legitimate independent 
agencies that a major catastrophe 
was happening in Iraq and the death 
rates were tripling from previously 
curable diseases and because of poor 
water quality and the lack of food 
and medicine. The U.S., represented by Ms. Albright, was blocking any 
shipments of medicine, food and other 
basic needs, even blankets, or car tires 
to 30 million Iraqis because Albright 
claimed it can be used by the army. The 
situation became so dire that it was 
estimated in 1996 that there were half 
a million Iraqi children dead because 
of the sanctions. Ms. Albright,the U.N. Ambassador, refused to even 
discuss lifting the sanctions and when 
60-minutes program journalist Leslie 
Stahl confronted her with these figures 
of death, Albright Albright infamously 
said the death toll was worth it for 
keeping the sanctions. As a result of the 
suffering and death that was obvious 
to anyone visiting Iraq and knowing what was going on in hospitals, 
several  high-level U.N. envoys quit 
their posts in protest. Several U.N. member countries requested lifting the 
sanctions for humanitarian reasons 
but the U.S. at the security council 
threatened to veto any such measure 
and the suffering and death continued. 
I was a resident physician from 
1991 to 1993 in my native country, 
Iraq, practicing medicine in the 
different rotations around Baghdad 
hospitals. I saw firsthand how we 
OP-ED: Madeline Albright 
Is No Role Model For 
UCSD Graduates
Madeline Albright’s obstinate support of the Unites States’ 
intervention in Iraq crippled the country’s infrastructure and left 
its population to suffer the consequences. Now, UC San Diego 
treats her torrid career with reverence and invites her to speak at 
this year’s Commencement Ceremony.
By  Wael  Al-DELAIMY    Professor of PUBLIC HEALTH, UCSD
See COMMENCEMENT,  page 5
Sitting in a Tent of Lies: Th e Problems with the Textbook Buy-Back Program
By Jacob sUtherland     Senior Staff Writer
At the end of a long quarter of homework, studying, and sleepless 
nights, students want to forget the horror of being three Y erba Mate 
shots deep into their POLI 102D homework by getting rid of their textbooks. Luckily for them, the bookstore o ffers a Textbook Buy-
Back program where, as advertised on its website, students can sell 
back their books and “be o ffered up to 50 percent of the new book 
price. ”
However, the allure of receiving a sweet $64.99 for the “ The 
Voting Rights Act - Securing the Ballot” is more o ften than not 
squashed when students head over to the Buy-Back tent just to find 
out that the program will not buy back their book, leaving these 
students both disheartened and broke.
Despite the appealing idea of a Textbook Buy-Back program, 
the UC San Diego Bookstore needs to change the way that this program is advertised and run in order to ensure students are given a fair chance to receive the highest possible financial return on their 
investment in higher education.
This issue is more complex than just saying that the program 
randomly chooses which books to buy back and at what rate; the cost of college textbooks is something that, while at this point a culturally shared meme, remains an impediment to higher 
education for many prospective and current students.
A 2005 study by the U.S. Government Accountability O ffice 
found that, between 1986 and 2004, the cost of textbooks had 
inflated by 186 percent. While the study is over a decade old, 
considering that the in flation of the U.S. dollar has persisted, the 
cost of textbooks, more likely than not, has continued to rise as well.
This high cost makes textbook buy-back programs like the 
one offered through the UCSD bookstore a good idea in theory. 
However, the logistics of the UCSD program reveal their flaws 
through the lack of student utilization of the program. In a straw 
poll of Guardian readers, of the 87.1 percent that had heard of the program, 55.6 percent said they had never even used it.
These percentages can be seen in action in turnout of the Winter 
and Spring Buy-Back weeks. According to Leslie Verfaillie, a Course 
Materials Buyer for the Bookstore, during this buy-back session, only 1,771 units were bought back at a total price of $19,331.50, 
leading to an average buy-back price of $10 per book. On a campus 
that had 38,798 students enrolled at the beginning of Fall 2018, 1,771 textbooks is a very small number.
Verfaille says that the Buy-Back program is not entirely a black 
and white process. In an email to the Guardian, she explained how the program is run by an outside organization representing a handful of nationwide textbook resellers, an important point not 
directly advertised to students. She said that only a fraction of the 
books bought go directly to the UCSD Bookstore.
“We upload a list of books that we are buying for the UCSD 
Bookstore, and [the buy-back organization] will purchase those books on our behalf, ” Verfaille said. “ The other books that are 
purchased are for their company and will be sold to other stores across the nation. … The used book companies o ften pay way less, 
but again they have their own pricing algorithms. For us, the pricing is set based upon marketplace pricing. If they are selling on Amazon 
(or wherever) for $10, we’re not going to pay $100. We do try to pay 
as close to 50 percent of new as reasonable. ”
While no one is required to utilize this service, the fact that the 
program has the backing of the UCSD Bookstore gives this resale platform better credibility than other online avenues even if the resulting buy-back price is less. Students have busy lives and limited budgets, so selling books online is not always as readily available an option as is going to the buy-back tent at the beginning or end of the quarter. This does not inherently mean the bookstore has 
any obligation to students to provide a better program. However, 
considering the store has support from a public university that has the explicit goal to serve its students, there is a certain level of 
responsibility in making the buy-back program more in favor of the students than for corporate pro fit.
If the bookstore truly wants to “buy back as many books as 
possible, ” then it must create a greater level of transparency for 
the offer-making process through their advertising and buy-back 
procedures. The program could be advertised as being mostly 
composed of national booksellers rather than the UCSD Bookstore 
itself. By o ffering more readily available information on who actually 
is determining the buy-back price, students would be better able to make the choice of where to sell their books for the best price.
On the same note, the bookstore could also create an online 
platform for students to look up textbooks and see what type of offer they could get through the program before turning over their 
textbooks. Verfaille said that an online buy-back search tool was attempted ten years ago, but there were problems with it due to the inability to post information on books other than those being bought back speci fically by the UCSD Bookstore.
“We found that our buybacks actually dropped because the 
students didn’t realize that 1000s of other titles were also being bought [buy the nationwide resellers], ” Verfaille said. “We are 
thinking about trying to do this again and better. … But right now 
money and resources are going in di fferent directions since we 
have to move the whole store twice this summer to make room for Target.”
While these sorts of changes in advertisement and the purchasing 
process will take time and willingness on the part of the bookstore to be implemented, for now, students must take it upon themselves to utilize other avenues of resale, such as UCSD Textbook Exchange and UCSD Free and For Sale 2.0. But until POLI 102D is o ffered 
again next quarter, I for one look forward to utilizing my voting 
rights textbook as a paperweight.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
SYSTEM PLEASE   By System 32
would lose infants to respiratory 
illnesses because the only hospital 
ventilator was broken and Iraq was not 
allowed to import the parts needed for 
it or purchase new ones. I would attend 
an eight-hour emergency shift where 
I would see at least 80 patients but I 
was supplied with only two ampules of 
asthma medication and one ampule of 
sedative. I had to decide who among the 80 patients deserved to get these 
injections. The other patients visiting 
the emergency department had to suffer 
because treatment was not allowed into 
the country and we were rationing 
whatever was left over from stored, 
often expired medicine. As a resident, 
I saw the emaciated faces of young 
children that you only saw in pictures 
of famine and holocaust victims. They 
would get an infection, have diarrhea, 
vomit, and then die because the water 
was contaminated. They would also keep getting re-infected and we didn’t 
have any intravenous fluid or even the 
cannulas to store the fluid.
I will never forget the agony of the 
parents of a 5-year old boy who came 
to the emergency department with a 
viral infection that was affecting his 
breathing. We had nothing in that large 
children’s hospital to help him breathe. He died right in front of us and his 
weeping parents. Normally we would 
give oxygen, put him on a ventilator 
until the infection subsides and give 
him steroid and antibiotic injections 
for any secondary infections, none of 
which we had because of the sanctions. 
In another instance, I vividly remember 
a 3-year-old boy crying and clutching to his crying father in the corridor of 
a hospital I served in. I approached the 
father to ask why they were crying and 
the father said his son was diagnosed 
with leukemia and the doctors said 
they didn’t have the medicine for it. 
The only way to get it was through 
the flourishing black market that they 
would have to pay for by selling their house. The boy did not understand 
anything but was crying because his father was crying, not knowing he was 
handed the death sentence. Prior to 
the sanctions, this treatment was freely 
available in one of the best healthcare 
systems in the Middle East and survival 
from treatment of leukemia was high. 
For everyone who lived inside and 
outside of Iraq during that era, the face 
of the cruel sanctions was Madeline 
Albright. In my opinion, stating that it is worth it to have half a million 
children die because of a policy is a war 
crime. Someone who is viewed as a war 
criminal should not be celebrated as a 
commencement speaker. As someone 
who lived during that era and was 
a first-hand witness of the suffering 
she had caused, I feel it is my ethical 
responsibility to educate our UCSD 
graduates about Albright’s past. Then, 
it is up to the students to decide if 
they want to be associated with such 
a speaker. Her track record with the genocide in Rwanda is also not any 
better. Although almost 1 million people 
were massacred in Rwanda, Madeleine 
Albright, at the U.N. Security Council 
representing the U.S., undermined all 
of the U.N. ’s efforts to strengthen its 
military presence in Rwanda that could 
have averted or substantially decreased 
the death toll from the genocide. This history of death and suffering for Iraqi 
children and undermining efforts to 
save innocent women and children in 
Rwanda can be attributed to Albright’s 
relentless advocacy and championing of 
these policies as documented by several 
independent sources and books. This 
is why it was devastating for me to 
see that our university is treating her as a celebrity, claiming that her values 
promote human rights, and allowing 
her to give the commencement speech 
for our graduating UCSD students. Our 
bright, conscientious, and intelligent 
UCSD graduates deserve a far better 
role model than her.
Wael Al-Delaimy is a Professor of Public 
Health at the UCSD School of Medicine.▶ COMMENCEMENT , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
For many of us students, summer is like a refresh 
button. Fresh graduates are out seeking jobs or continuing their studies, and a wave of newly 
admitted students prepare to come to UC San Diego. 
Some of these newly admitted students excitedly 
accepted their offer to UCSD, taking to Twitter to beam about committing to their dream school. 
However, the decision of where to spend the next four 
years may not be so clear cut for others. 20 percent of high school students apply to more than nine colleges, and more often than not, they get accepted into more than one. When choosing schools, students not only have to consider their academics, but also the location, finances, opportunities provided by the school, and reputation.
UCSD applicants get to take part in the annual Triton 
Day, where newly admitted freshmen and their families are invited to visit the school and learn about the university’s academic departments, hear about campus services, and tour the dorms. This year’s Triton Day had an estimated 15,000 attendees. The school was buzzing with excitement, with organizations and departments setting up booths in Town Plaza in front of Price Center. Students who were ready to commit to UCSD could go to the “ Accept Your Offer Tent, ” where volunteers met them with chants and cheers. Committed students also got a chance to take pictures with their families as a #FutureTriton. 
UCSD has prided itself for its diverse student body 
in the past, and this year was no different. This year’s turnout included more non-STEM majors and California residents than previous years. 
As a renowned research university, UCSD is a popular 
choice among students who want to conduct research. Going to a highly-esteemed research university also provides opportunities to network and learn from mentors, professors, and researchers currently doing work in their fields. It may even land connections that could be useful in professional career development. 
For example, one John 
Muir College admit majoring in structural engineering said it was the reputation of the engineering department that convinced him to commit to UCSD. 
“The engineering department here has a high ranking, 
and I wanted to do engineering, so this seemed to be the best choice, ” he said. 
Aside from offering opportunities in career 
development, the faculty at UCSD also promotes a learning environment that is “student-centered. ” The resources extend outside of professors and teaching assistants; there are also librarians, Teaching and Learning Commons tutors, and supplemental instruction hours for students who need extra help.“I heard from friends who go here that the professors 
are really good, and that they’re close to their students, ” one admitted student from Thurgood Marshall College said. “If I ever need help, I’ll know that I have someone to go to. ”
UCSD is in an ideal location, especially for those who 
love the sun, sand, and surf. In fact, more than half of the incoming freshmen mentioned their excitement of studying so close to the beach. Living a mere ten minutes from the beach means that it’s accessible any time, 
whether it’s for relaxation or for a different setting to do work — not to mention the sunsets.
UCSD is unique among 
other universities for not only having departments but also for its college system. The different colleges, which fosters a smaller, tight-knit community at a large 
university, have different general education requirements . The college that students get into eventually become part of their identity and pride. 
Admitted into John Muir College, one committed 
freshman said, “I love the social justice focus of this college, and how every college is different. ” 
Organizations and extracurricular activities are other 
aspects of the college experience. Some students decide to attend universities because of a renowned organization that has made a name for itself. The activities that some of  
A  Triton  is  Born
This past Triton Day, Th e Guardian spoke with our #FutureTritons about 
why they decided to commit to UCSD.
By Jenny  Lee      Contributing Writer
“Living a mere ten minutes 
from the beach means that it’ s 
accessible any time, whether it’ s 
for relaxation or for a different 
setting to do work — not to 
mention the sunsets.”
King Triton greets the newly admitted UCSD Class of 2023 at Triton Day.
See TRITON DAY ,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
challenging, ” one general biology student said.
The transition from high school academics 
to university level academics is drastic, and 
part of that comes from having to balance the responsibilities on our plate. It’s one of the main sources of stress for students, especially for those who have to maintain a good grade point average for graduate-level schooling. Despite worries about academia, UCSD students have kept up a mean cumulative GPA of 3.00 for the past 18 years. 
Many of the incoming freshmen were also 
curious and nervous about dorm life. 
For most of us students, we’ve never had 
to share a room with someone else, let alone strangers. We’ve all heard of roommate horror stories from friends or online confessions. This change could be especially hard for introverts or those who prefer to have their own space. The nervousness of having to be conscious of your living habits and being surrounded by the same people for one year can be challenging. 
“I think what I’m most nervous about is living 
away from my mom, ” said a math and economics student. “I’m really close to her and I’m scared to get bad roommates. ” 
Aside from the academics, location, and 
opportunities, most of the students came to 
get the college experience, which is different for every person. College is a time to be away from home for the first time, which could be both exciting and daunting. For all of us, college is what we will make it out to be. 
Welcome to UCSD, class of 2023. All student responses were noted anonymously.
 
the admitted students mentioned varied from professional fraternities to dance and from academic science organizations to lacrosse. 
“I’m very excited about joining debate or a political org, ” one student 
said. “Back in high school, there weren’t many opportunities to talk about [these topics], so I want to find that community in college. ” 
In addition to the excitement of going to 
college, many of the students also confessed their fears of starting this new chapter of their lives. 
Most of them were worried about 
academics, with one student jokingly stating that he “hopes he doesn’t get rescinded” before he even gets to start his freshman year. The course work at UCSD is challenging, and on top of that, there are only 10 weeks to master the material. The quarter system is no joke. Orientation leaders warn first-year students of the 10-week schedule before classes even start.
“I’m worried about the courses. I’ve heard that they’re really 
Jenny  Lee   jel003@ucsd.edu
At Triton Day, students were able to participate in a variety of activities around campus.
▶ TRITON DAY , from page 6
“We’ve all heard of roommate 
horror stories from friends or 
online confessions. This change 
could be especially hard for 
introverts or those who prefer to 
have their own space.”
The  UCSD  Guardian  
wishes  you  good  luck  with  your  midterms!  you  can  do  it!A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
san  diego  asian  film  
festival  Spring  Showcase
The San Diego Asian Film Festival returned April 11-18 with its 9th annual Spring Showcase. This year, the festival focused on diversifying the 
face of Asian cinema, demonstrating a variety of films from over nine countries all across Asia. Here are the Guardian Arts and Entertainment 
staff’s favorite films.
Indonesian director Edwin’s fourth feature film, “ Aruna & Her Palate, ” traces the story 
of Aruna (Dian Sastrowardoyo), a food-obsessed epidemiologist sent across Indonesia 
to investigate the possibility of an avian flu epidemic. Aruna, at the behest of her friends 
Bono (Nicholas Saputra), a professional chef, and Nadezhda (Hannah Al Rashid), a culinary writer and critic, brings them along her journey to sample the regional cuisine of Indonesia. The trio collectively partakes in an informal part culinary, part vocational trip. 
Along the way, they are also joined by Farish (Oka Antana), Aruna’s former co-worker 
and love interest who coincidentally is assigned to work the case with her. As the four 
individuals traverse the country in search of both epidemic evidence and mouth-watering Indonesian food, they ultimately encounter uniquely Indonesian aspects of religion, politics, conspiracy, and love.
The film, though classi fied as a romantic comedy, invokes vivid, compelling shots and 
descriptions of regional Indonesian cooking and food that seems to emulate cooking shows. Director Edwin manages to strike a balance between the hearty and genuine nature of street food and the sophistication required to depict the dishes on film. The camera 
movement serves to emphasize the movement and e ffort put into making each recipe 
while also aptly capturing the texture and color unique to Indonesian cuisine. The food 
also takes on a symbolic value as the compatibility of flavors within each dish embody 
the ever-evolving relationships between the characters. “ Aruna & Her Palate, ” amidst its investigative plot, o ffers succinct and powerful insight into a South Asian country through 
its style of cooking.
—  Aaron  hong
Contributing Writer
Teresa (Perla Bautista) and Celso (Menggie Cobarrubias) are possibly the cutest 
elderly couple alive. At first sight, it seems as if the greatest problem for the two may not 
be the pubic hairs Celso leaves on the soap bar that drive Teresa insane or the strange 
watermelon chicken stew that Teresa spontaneously put together, but that they just love 
each other too much. But when Teresa’s estranged husband Bene (Dante Rivero) falls ill and Teresa decides to take care of him, it seems not everything is as perfect as it seems. Together, Teresa and Celso must confront this elusive figure from the past and find peace 
as Teresa spends more time with him in his final moments.
“W aiting for Sunset” is a beautiful, heart-wrenching testament to the power of 
enduring love and the act of forgiving. With a stunning performance from Perla Bautista as the loving Teresa, the film speaks to reconciliation with past and present, and the 
personal choices we make throughout our lives. With its muted amber palette evoking a slow encroaching twilight, “Sunset” approaches the uncertainty of old age with a certain 
sensibility and restraint, making for a viewing experience that is at once charming and 
heartbreaking.
 
—  Justin  Nguyen
Senior Staff Writer
The Korean W ar ... and tap dancing? It’s an unlikely combination that “Swing Kids, ” a 
2018 movie directed by Kang Hyeong-cheol, tackles with mixed results. Do Kyung-soo, known as “D.O. ” from K-pop group EXO, plays Roh Ki-soo, a North Korean prisoner 
of war. While at the Geoje prison camp overseen by Americans, Ki-soo spots Sergeant 
Jackson (Jared Grimes) tap dancing. Enthralled, he joins Jackson’s dance team, and Ki-soo’s new “yankee” pastime leads his comrades to question his loyalty.
Well-choreographed tap dancing scenes are infectious enough to make viewers start 
tapping their feet, but dampening these fun, “Footloose”-esque scenes is a muddled political narrative that struggles to tell its anti-war message. Showy dance routines and cheesy visual e ffects are thrown in the mix with surprisingly bloody and sobering 
moments, and this jarring tonal disparity makes for a disorienting two-hour watch. For example, a confrontation between American soldiers and Ki-soo switches back and forth 
between a dance-o ff and an assault on Ki-soo. At worst, this trivializes the mistreatment of 
POWs; at best, viewers don’t know whether they’re supposed to laugh or feel sorry. “Swing 
Kids” tries to make its viewers do both, but, like Ki-soo learns, it’s safer o ff picking a side.
 
—   natalie  tran
Senior Staff WriterDirected  by  EDWIN
Directed  by  Corlo  enciso  cotu
Directed  by  Kang  Hyeong-cheol
Aruna & her  Palate 
Waiting  for  sunset
Swing  kidsPHOTO BY SDAFF .ORG
PHOTO BY SDAFF .ORG
PHOTO BY SDAFF .ORGA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Use your phone as your 
mobile ticket to ride. 
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
Moving to my own rhythm.
Student fees provide 
unlimited rides for students on MTS buses* & Trolley and NCTD buses & SPRINTER.
*Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.  
Current registration/enrollment 
and valid @ucsd.edu email address required to activate account.Your Spring Quarter U-Pass is 
valid through June 30, 2019
Download the 
Compass Cloud App and check for updates.“Song Lang,” director Leon Le’s first full-length film, is a love letter to Vietnamese folk 
opera (known as c ải lương) as well as a tender exploration of queer love in 1980s Vietnam. 
The film tells the story of Dung (Liên B ỉnh Phát), a ruthlessly e fficient debt collector, and 
his fateful encounter with Linh Phuong (Isaac), the leading man of a c ải lương troupe. 
They first meet under contentious circumstances — Dung means to burn the troupe’s 
costumes when they fail to pay a loan on time. However, over the course of a night, the 
pair forms an unlikely, life-altering connection as they bond over family, art, and their 
mutual love of c ải lương.
The film is a captivating success, expertly exploring the push-and-pull between 
Vietnamese tradition and modern society. Dung plucks his song lang (a Vietnamese 
musical instrument) alongside Nintendo video games and cassette tapes. Haunting traditional folk music plays over shots of a changing urban Saigon. The tension of change 
is most evident in Dung’s personal life — Dung must choose between moving forward in his cruel and unsatisfying life as a loan shark, or embracing his longtime love of c ải lương. 
Liên B ỉnh Phát and Isaac are exceptional in their roles, conveying layers of churning 
emotions with only a few glances toward each other. When Dung meets Linh, their chemistry is immediate and electric. As their taunts evolve into intimate conversations and tentative interest, the two of them must navigate what they mean to each other, and 
what they are willing to sacri fice for a life worth living.
—   Tany a  Nguyen
Contributing Writer
Sasha Li (Anna Akana) is facing a classic millennial dilemma: she’s a year out of 
school and more than ready to get her first job but she lacks the experience to get the 
fashion designer position she desires. Fortunately for Sasha though, this is not the end of the world; her father Teddy Li (Richard Ng), CEO of a China-based toy company, keeps 
her well-funded with her million-dollar trust fund, half of which she has happily blown through on high fashion and wild nights. Enamored by her LA lifestyle, Sasha ignores her father, who she resents for his womanizing, yet simultaneously traditionalist ways. 
However, everything changes when her father cuts her o ff and presents her with an 
unappealing ultimatum — get a job and support herself, or move back to suburban China.
Light-hearted and witty, “Go Back to China” presents a tale as old as time: the 
spoiled heiress who has to learn to grow up. But despite its Hallmark-esque tone and 
premise (heck, it even takes place during Christmas), it o ffers a more nuanced look 
at the relationships between business, family, and culture. Sasha is not the classically vapid heroine who becomes charmed by an unfamiliar world. Instead, she forges more meaningful relationships with her father and sister while continuing to expose their flaws 
and navigating boundaries. Funny and thoughtful, “Go Back to China” is a fresh heart-
filled film that’s sure to charm.
—  CHLOE  esser
A&E EditorDirected  by  LEON  LE
Directed  by  Emil y  Ting
SONG  lAng
Go  back  to  chinaPHOTO BY SDAFF .ORG
PHOTO BY SDAFF .ORG10                                                                                 T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
While 2019 has been filled with 
flashy comebacks from young and fresh talent, it has also brought 
us new music from industry veterans like The Chemical Brothers. This English electronic music duo has been active for three decades as of 2019, and they are legendary for legitimizing 
“big beat” as a popular genre in the late ‘90s and 
early 2000s. “Big beat” has fallen out of fashion for some time, with flashier and sexier EDM artists finishing the job of bringing electronic music into the mainstream. Nevertheless, The 
Chemical Brothers managed to stay relevant in 
the 2010s by toning down their raucous style and slipping some indie influences into their music, especially in their soundtrack for the film 
“Hanna” and their album “Born in the Echoes. ”
“No Geography” marks The Chemical 
Brothers’ ninth studio album in their long career. 
To say they abandoned the idea of “staying relevant” is an understatement; their newest 
album teleports listeners back to the raging 
psychedelic beats of times long gone. “Gravity Drops” best showcases their return to the ‘90s, and one can’t help but picture a dance floor filled 
with club-goers decked out in gaudy ‘90s-style 
fashion.With their return to the “big beat” style they 
were popular for, The Chemical Brothers also seem to be having a lot more fun with the beats 
and sounds they use. “Bango” blends elements 
of Latin percussion and glitch-style electronic music into their usual sound. Listeners may find the vocals a bit unsettling, but it fortunately 
doesn’t take away too much from how danceable 
this song is. For listeners who enjoy an edgier sound, “We’ve Got to Try” will not disappoint with its seamless transitions between a rocker-like vocal bridge and a head-banging electronic 
chorus. But one song that truly takes the cake is 
“Free Y ourself. ” While most of the song is fairly unmemorable, the chorus has a hilarious sound effect that seems reminiscent of several rubber 
chickens being squeezed simultaneously. A true 
testament to their skill, The Chemical Brothers managed to turn the sound into a genuinely enjoyable experience. It’s perhaps the clearest symbol of the shift The Chemical Brothers 
have taken from reproducible popular music 
to unconventional and artistic works for this album.
Nevertheless, “No Geography” does have a 
couple tracks that seem a bit more radio-friendly. “Got to Keep On, ” despite its lyrical blandness, has a very pleasant ambiance to it given by a cute melody led by bells and chimes. “Catch Me I’m Falling, ” the closing track to the album, is the 
best song for broadcast, with smooth vocals and 
rap lines interspersed with beautiful, fluttering electronic instrumentals.
Part of the reason why The Chemical Brothers 
decided to retreat to their old style of music could be due to politics. In a recent interview about their album, the duo discussed British politics extensively, which given the state of Brexit at the moment, may give insight into the album’s 
namesake. With this context, many songs in the 
album take on a completely different meaning. Ignoring the futuristic and hypnotic sound of “Eve of Destruction, ” the dissonant robotic voice 
that continuously chants “the eve of destruction” 
gives the impression that a rogue virus has taken over the track, creating a foreboding atmosphere in the song that may reflect how tense the artists feel about the future of their home. “MAH” also 
seems to be a reflection of what The Chemical 
Brothers see in British politics. The song only has two prominently repeated lines: “I’m mad as hell” and “I ain’t gonna take it no more. ” Couple 
that with the music video released for this song 
featuring an alien wearing a crown, “MAH” seems more like a criticism on how disconnected the government is from the needs of the people.
To the average music listener, most of this 
album, as interesting as it is, will seem quite daunting to listen to. However, this album is much more about the experience than it is about being consumed. Each song has several 
layers of sound overlapping to create an intricate 
piece of art. Further, the album’s suggested political inspirations add another dimension to the music, allowing for endless possibilities of interpretations of The Chemical Brothers’ 
intentions with certain songs. While this album 
may not be the best choice for your next road trip or kickback lest you get some strange looks from your friends, “No Geography” is nonetheless 
an album worth listening through at least once. 
Sure, the album has its overly hectic and atonal parts, but those who take the time to thoroughly experience and analyze it are bound to find the album extremely rewarding.
—  steven  zhou
 Senior Staff Writer
No  Geography
by  The  chemical  brothers
Release Date  April 12, 2019ALBUM   REVIEW
a-Electronica veterans The Chemical Brothers return with their 
ninth album, venturing into the far-out.LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
At last, the much-anticipated Sun God festival is right around the corner! As is the 
case with any other music event, Sun God allows us undergraduates to let loose during 
a day of unadulterated musical entertainment. After all, there are performances to see and plenty of memories to be made. Everyone is free to spend the day as they see fit 
(keeping in mind the Student Conduct Code, of course), truly allowing for freedom of 
expression.
Having said that, I’ve found that observing other people during the festival is 
incredibly entertaining. So, what better to do than write an observational humor piece 
based on students’ behavior at Sun God? Nothing, I tell you. Nothing. Without further ado, here are six categories of UC San Diego students who gave me quite the chuckle. 
Please read on, laugh at some mediocre jokes, and perhaps relate to this plethora of 
student experiences. 
The Overly Intense Moshers
In this world, mosh pits are my absolute personal hell. When one meets a crowd 
full of fraternity brothers shoving one another, there is only one appropriate response: fear, and lots of it. During one fateful moment at last year’s Sun God, I found myself 
shoved into a corner as I bordered three war zones at once, cowering in the middle of 
the Bermuda triangle of mosh. I became a victim of non-consensual moshing, which 
is not an experience I care to repeat. Please keep the mosh pit enthusiasts away from 
us cowards, thanks. Luckily, they’re usually pretty easy to notice from afar, allowing for 
swift escape. 
The Music Hipster
Not to stereotype anyone, but I know that some students among the UCSD student 
body ought to be considered music snobs. I mean, they exist everywhere, right? I’m 
talking about the type of person who would complain when someone doesn’t know 
all the artists performing, or would sneer at anyone who’s having too good of a time. 
But above all, I’m sure certain students of the hipster persuasion would complain that 
the line-up is trash, no matter who is performing. In conclusion, they must really hate 
fun. To spot the music hipster, simply look for someone who permanently wears a disapproving scowl on their face.
The Casual Fan Who Came Because They Have Nothing Better To Do
This person is the mortal enemy of the music hipster; nay, the bane of their 
existence. Why? Because casual fans couldn’t care less about the show itself. The casuals 
show up to Sun God to either chill out with friends or get as “turnt” as possible (there’s 
no in-between). As someone who is musically ignorant, I will admit to being the filthy casual that I am, for transparency’s sake. Without a doubt, the best way to spot a casual 
is to find a confused person who is standing in the back end of the crowd.
The First-Y ear
This category bears some similarity to the casual, with the exception that the freshman is genuinely excited to be at Sun God. They have no concept of what the festival will 
actually be like, so they tend to show up with shiny eyes and unrealistic expectations. As a result, first-years tend to have fun regardless of the festival’s actual quality since they 
haven’t become cynical and old like the rest of us. The exception to this rule perhaps applies to Coachella fanatics who don’t care for “inferior” festivals. Finding first-years is always easy; just look for people who still have hope in their eyes.
The Overtly Sexual Couples
Whatever it is, something about Sun God makes people lose control of their inhibitions a bit, to the point of downright obscenity. Don’t get me wrong, couples can like each 
other! Cool! But, sometimes the rest of us end up witnessing things that we’ d be better off never seeing. If I kept track of how many butts are grabbed at Sun God, I could have a large enough sample size to conduct a full-blown study on it. I don’t need to give advice on how to look for these guys since we’re better off not witnessing their shenanigans.
The People Sitting on Other People’s Shoulders
I feel like this must be a safety hazard, but people seem to do it anyway. Godspeed to y’all, and please don’t fall off. That is all.
For some people, this article may serve as a guide for what to expect at Sun God. For others, this may have provided a good laugh. I hope nobody was severely offended during 
the reading of this piece. 
Have fun at Sun God, everyone!The T ypes of People That Attend Sun God: An Unhelpful Guide
By jade  hookham       LIFESTYLE staff writer
Just know that we’re judging you.
I once was on the pathway to entering the medical field, but the plan shattered into 
pieces as I soon realized that there is one thing I cannot handle: needles. Contradictorily, 
I have always admired body art. After overcoming my fear and deciding what I want 
forever imprinted on my body, I am now the owner of a couple of tattoos. As such, I 
have a few tips for those who are considering getting their first tattoo. 
Generate an Idea
The preliminary step of getting inked: know what you want to get. Some people 
want a tattoo that is memorable and sentimental; others may want a picture of a potato. Whatever you have in mind, ensure that the font, placement, size, and spelling are how 
you want it to be. I recommend drawing on yourself with a pen or a marker to see if 
you’re comfortable with how it looks. I personally advise against getting something of 
your significant other on your body permanently.
Do Y our Research
Know that every shop has several tattoo artists and every artist has their own sense 
of artistic style. With that being said, just because you find a tattoo you like from a Yelp reviewer and decide to walk into the shop, you may not walk out with what the 
reviewer has. The best way to prevent this from happening is to research the artists’ 
portfolios as much as you can; most artists have them posted on their websites. Many 
have Instagram pages which I highly recommend looking through.
This is quite obvious, but take notice of the shop’s hygiene! One thing college has 
taught me well is to trust my gut feeling. If you immediately do not feel comfortable 
in the shop, leave. The last thing you want is to have an incompetent artist leave a permanent mark on you in an uncomfortable environment. Also, always ensure that 
the artist is opening a new needle in front of you. 
Lastly, understand that there is almost always a minimum charge regardless of the 
size of your tattoo — this is to cover the artist’s service, shop’s rent, equipment, and 
tools. Usually, anything beyond the minimum is charged by the hour. Ask for the pricing before heading to the shop to ensure you can pay for it. It is always best to go 
in person to get a quote if you are planning to get a big piece. Be sure to tip a minimum 
of 15%.
Know Your Pain Tolerance
Inevitably, getting a tattoo hurts as a needle is piercing into your skin. Some would describe the pain as annoying while others would even lose their consciousness when getting a tattoo. However, please know that I would whine for days over a papercut. If 
your pain tolerance is as low as me, then simply consider getting a small piece (anything 
smaller than two inches) to begin. Furthermore, many artists are accommodating, so 
feel free to ask for a break when you can no longer handle the pain.
Bring a Friend
You need to share the process on Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, or Twitter, right? 
For your first tattoo, I highly advise bringing a friend along not only for social media pictures but for emotional support — this will greatly calm your anxiety. Additionally, 
a friend can critique the placement of the tattoo, which can sometimes be overlooked. 
After you get your first ink, you should then ask your friend to take photos for social 
media.
Aftercare
A new tattoo is essentially an open wound and should be treated with proper care 
to ensure that it heals beautifully. Each artist’s method of aftercare varies a little, but the general rule of thumb is to wash it with soap, air dry, and moisturize. The tattoo 
will form a scab, but never scratch or pick on it when it gets itchy! Lastly, always wear 
sunscreen as ultraviolet rays damage the tattoo and cause it to fade faster. 
Understand the Consequences
Tattoos will change in appearance as time passes. The ink will expand and blur and 
colored ink will be reabsorbed by your body more quickly than black ink. A tattoo that you just got will not stay crisp forever. Additionally, there is still some unfortunate 
social stigma regarding tattoos and some employers do not like them. Consider what 
career field you might want to be in so the placement and size of the tattoo will not 
negatively impact your future. 
Getting your first tattoo can be both nerve-wracking and exciting. However you may 
be feeling, it is essential to research and understand the process as much as possible to ensure you get the tattoo you want to show off this upcoming summer season! Guide to Getting Y our First T attoo
By Rebecca  Tsang       Lifestyle Staff wRiter12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  A P R I L  2 2 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Contact the AS Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion at asdiversity@mail.ucsd.edu • 858.534.3300UC San Diego Student Health Center and CAPS both 
employ experts in transgender health care, tailored to provide students with personalized medical services.  
There are also dozens of providers within California that are in-network under UC SHIP .
UC SHIP covers:
• Hormone Therapy
• Gender Confirmation Surgery
 - phalloplasty, vaginoplasty, gondal surgery and mastectomies
• Travel Costs
Interested students should contact Student Health Services or CAPS for more information/to schedule an appointment.
Student Health Services: wellness.ucsd.edu/studenthealth
CAPS: wellness.ucsd.edu/CAPSDid you know UC SHIP covers transitional expenses?
There’s something strange and impersonal about swiping through dozens 
of people within a minute, but dating apps are often a necessary evil if you’re 
single and ready to mingle. We all know that socialization at UC San Diego can be described as difficult and nonexistent, so dating apps can sometimes be the only way to find that special someone you are looking for. While each person you swipe on is unique, here are a few of those classic matches that pop up often 
on dating apps.
The match that tries to guess your ethnicity
Just by asking you what your ethnicity is, you know this person is getting 
ready to fetishize you, especially if it’s one of the first questions they ask about 
you. I’m Central American, and I had a guy ask if I was Colombian because I reminded him of the TV show Narcos. Tip: if you’re going to fetishize based on a girl’s ethnic background, learn geography first; Colombia is not in Central America. Also, even if I was Colombian, do you really think I’ d be down to hang out with you if you compared me to a show about drug lords?
The naturalist
This person is most likely to have a picture of themselves on potato chip rock. 
Every picture you swipe through is them in nature, and you start to wonder if they are ever indoors. 
The sun, sand, and surf dude
Along the same vein, this person’s profile of them surfing at various different 
angles makes you question whether the beach is their home. 
The gym rat
We all know the one: pictures of them bench pressing or mirror selfies of 
their gym progress. Every picture is them in athletic clothes. Not necessarily a bad thing, but if you’re someone whose idea of a good workout is running from Pepper Canyon Hall to HSS, they may not be the right choice for you. 
The one profile that keeps popping up over and over
This usually means this guy swiped right on you, but do I really have to keep 
seeing him over and over again after I swiped left? Thanks, Tinder.
The match that you were interested in but got lost in a sea of other profiles
It’s safe to say that in the process of preparing for midterms, writing papers, 
cramming studying in, and overall trying to survive the quarter system can often lead us to neglect messages. Dating is hard, even if it’s only on an app.One of your best friends
This is always awkward. I tend to swipe left, but not before casually looking 
through their profile and chuckling to myself. After swiping left, you never mention the situation again, and you’re left wondering: did my friend see my profile too? Awkward.
Y our ex
Y ou’re obviously over your ex, but you’ d rather not see them recycle pickup 
lines in their bio that they once used on you. Yikes.
Y our coworker
Y ou’ve always thought they were cute, and you’re curious, so you swipe right 
and it matches. Y ou instantly feel a sense of gratification quickly followed by a sharp feeling of regret. Y ou even try to go on a few dates and it doesn’t work out, but now walking by them at work will be forever awkward. Double yikes.
Y our next significant other
Every once in a while, you match with someone that’s actually normal and can 
have a decent conversation with them. Y ou go on a couple of dates with them and realize that you click, which is the last thing you expected from an app like Tinder. Y ou thank the universe for this new person in your life but now have the large task of deciding how to craft a new story of how you met.
There’s no shame in admitting you have a dating app. All this means is that 
you are taking a step toward reaching your own personal relationship goals, 
whether they be casual or serious. Enjoy your time on dating apps, try not to 
take it too seriously, and maybe when you least expect it, the person that’s right for you will swipe right on you, too! T ypes of People Y ou Match with on Tinder at UCSD
By  samirah  martinez       lifestyle staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTETFRIDAY, APRIL 26
Conrad Prebys Concert Concert Hall • 8pmTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
APR 22 - APR 282019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org8am
CENTER FOR STUDENT 
INVOLVEMENT AWARDS 
NOMINATIONS OPEN! SUBMIT YOUR NOMINATIONS ONLINE!
 The Center for Student Involvement's Awards & 
Celebration Nominations are now OPEN! The deadline to submit your nominations is Monday, 
April 23, 2019 at 8:00AM! Questions? Contact 
Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.edu
11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each week. Materials provided, space is limited.Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
SOUTH ASIAN & DESI FORUM- THE 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER 
CONFERENCE ROOM. 2ND FLOOR, 
PRICE CENTER
This drop-in forum is for all South Asian Identified 
students, including South Asian International & Desi American students pursuing their 
undergraduate, graduate & professional degree at 
UCSD. 
5pm
LEARN & SERVE: PRIDE!- LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER- STUDENT 
CENTER
Learn about the history, context, and current 
needs of San Diego's Pride Parade and Festival! Find out about the services SD Pride offers year round and how you can be a part of supporting this organization. Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.edu (858) 534-0501
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
- SPRING QUARTER,ERC
LCTs is a weekly event that creates a casual, fun 
environment for people to learn/practice a new language by conversing with a host. 
11am
EARTH PLAZA PALOOZA - PRICE 
CENTER PLAZA
Visit our annual Sustainability Fair, hosted by the Inter-Sustainability Council and UC San Diego Sustainability! Earth Plaza Palooza invites all students, faculty, and staff to stop by and participate in this fun and educational event. We have over 30 tablers, which include student organizations and off-campus vendors, who will be sharing information on their companies, campaigns and products. Enjoy free food samples and goodies and an opportunity drawing to win multiple prize baskets! 
5pm
LEARN & SERVE: SERVICE AFTER 
GRADUATION- UCSD CAREER 
CENTER, HORIZON ROOM
Learn & Serve is a speaker series that connects 
students with professionals making a difference in local non-profits and agencies, and opportunities to serve. Hear from PeaceCorps, City Year, Teach for America, Ocean Discovery Institute alumni, and recruiters about getting ahead by giving back. Learn about how serving the community can help prepare you for life after college, grad school and finding your passion. Contact: getinvolved@ucsd.eduTUE4.23
THU4.25MON4.22
11am
MARSHALL AWARENESS WEEK - 
ANGELA'S SPACE
Thurgood Marshall College Student Council 
(TMCSC) is proud to host our Marshall 
Awareness Week, which highlights the diverse 
experiences of students of various 
underrepresented backgrounds and identities. 
Join us and engage in meaningful dialogue with 
a panel of speakers from the LGBT Resource 
Center, Office of Students with Disabilities, and 
other on-campus resource centers. Learn how 
YOU can promote a culture of inclusivity and 
discover new opportunities to get involved! FREE 
FOOD 
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY - THE ZONE
Cook and eat delicious, healthy meals on a 
budget with our cooking demos. Free samples 
provided at the end of each demo.Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
R&R SQUAD- THE ZONE ON 
WEDNESDAYS AND THURSDAYS, 
AND GEISEL ON MONDAYS
Drop-in every Wednesday from 12:00-1:00pm 
and every Thursday from 5:00-6:00pm and get a 
low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad! 
R&R Squad is also at Geisel, every Monday from 
6:00-7:00pm. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
ILEAD WEEK 4- RED SHOE ROOM, 
BEAR ROOM, CROSS-CULTURAL 
CENTER,LGBT RESOURCE CENTER
Learn how to capture and share your experiences 
and skills developed beyond the classroom. This 
workshop will provide an opportunity to 
translate the value of your contributions and 
showcase your work using the Engaged Learning 
Tools. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu. 
12pm
YASMINE KASEM: JIHAD OF BITTER 
PETALS- PERFORMANCE SPACE, 
VISUAL ARTS FACILITY 306, UC SAN 
DIEGO
Jihad of Bitter Petals are works questioning what 
it is to be caught between the struggle and submission and the merger of Queer and Islamic Identities in a single body. Yasmine Kasems sculpture installation interprets the maintenance of internal conflict through materials in a constant state of precariousness. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu. Website: http://visarts.ucsd.edu/news-events/20190424-0503_yasminekasem.html
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ST. 
LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
The award-winning St. Lawrence String Quartet 
(SLSQ) has spent nearly three decades at the top of the chamber music world. Based at Stanford University, the ensemble is renowned for the intensity of its performances, its breadth of repertoire, and its commitment to concert experiences that are at once intellectually exciting and emotionally alive. FRI4.26WED4.24
11am
MEDITATION SERIES WITH VOU 
ATHENS -RIMAC ACTIVITY ROOM 3
Foundations of Meditation: Stress Reduction 
through Mindfulness and Meditation In this 
4-part series, experience deep relaxation and a 
calming of the mind. Come away with the experience to apply specific mindfulness and meditation techniques to everyday life to reduce stress, improve well-being and center the mind. Science and philosophy of practice included. All 
levels welcome.Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu.
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DAILY 
DROP-IN WORKSHOP- CAPS CENTRAL OFFICE 190 GALBRAITH 
HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life.  Facilitated by: Scott Hansen, Ph.D.(858) 534-5915. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu (858)534-9408
5pm
DEWITT HIGGS LEADERSHIP 
SYMPOSIUM - WARREN ADMIN 
BUILDING
Warren College and Sixth College invite you to 
the second annual Dewitt Higgs Student Leadership Symposium. Students will select from a number of interactive sessions presented by staff and community leaders on topics including time management, self-care, social justice, and career prep. Aspiring, emerging, and seasoned leaders are all invited! Facebook for more information: https://www.facebook.com/events/334790547387757/. Eventbrite to register for the event: https://leadershipsymposium2019.eventbrite.com. Happens Wednesday, April 24th, from 5-8pm at the Warren Administrative Building!Free In-n-Out and 85c Bakery provided. Contact: pju@ucsd.edu. Website: https://leadershipsymposium2019.eventbrite.com
6pm
TV DINNER: THE MISEDUCATION OF 
CAMERON POST - THE LOFT
University Centers Presents: TV Dinner: The 
Miseducation of Cameron Post. Doors: 6:00PM Show: 6:15PM. FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID "[The movie] respects the vulnerability that accompanies the emergence of any young person's sexuality." - Rotten Tomatoes. Come watch the coming-of-age movie "The Miseducation of Cameron Post" staring Chloe Grace Mortez at The Loft! Also expect good food and good company! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS 
MOKOOMBA - PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM
Mokoomba is one of Africas most exciting young 
bands, dazzling audiences worldwide with their knockout live shows and electrifying blend of Afro-fusion and tantalizing traditional Tonga rhythms. Mokoomba is a Tonga word that connotes the deep respect Tonga people have for the Zambezi River and for the vibrant life that it brings to their music and culture.The Zimbabwe-based groups latest album, Luyando--a stripped-down, mostly acoustic album-- took critics by storm. 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
SEA THINGS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1.Piquancy
5. Economist Smith9. Clinton’s cat
14. Cuba, to Carlos
15. French seaport
16. Qantas mascot17. Of ships: Abbr.18. Little bits
19. Raised a notch
20. Actor’s acknowledgment
23. Genealogy word24. Gymnast Korbut25. Like-minded voters
27. Excessively ornate
30. TD tossers
32. Graceful mount35. That, in Tijuana36. When expected
38. NFL coach Don
39. Twain’s ‘’Jumping Frog’’ setting
42. ‘’Go fly __!’’43. Shenanigan44. Whisper sweet nothings45. Written agreement46. Qty.47. Hindu god49. Till fillers51. Medicine bottle52. Carpet cleaner, briefly54. ‘’Minnie the Moocher’’ singer60. Send with a click62. Break in the action63. Infatuated64. Aquarium fish65. Peace Nobelist __ Myrdal66. Leap on skates67. Dawning68. Made a mess of69. Wall Street lettersDOWN
1. Brass component2. Brother of Jacob3. Speak ill of
4. ‘’Fantasy Island’’ role
5. Sophocles tragedy
6. Artemis counterpart7. Flexible, electrically8. Elevated plane
9. ‘’Hamlet’’ prop
10. ‘’Alley __!’’
11. Skipper of cereals12. Swiss artist13. ‘’Smooth Operator’’ singer
21. Small recess
22. Many oz.
26. Pearl Harbor locale27. News summary28. Japanese city
29. Multicolored pets
30. ‘60s British fashion designer
31. Top of the heap33. Illinois city34. Mississippi inlet37. Study in a hurry38. Church mixer40. Envelope abbr.41. Judge Judy’s expertise46. __ rule (generally)48. ‘’We try harder, ’’ e.g.50. Brilliance51. Trumpet device52. Reject, as a bill53. Church shout55. Spill the beans56. Winnow57. Like crayons58. A long time59. Connecticut campus61. Furious feeling65. Aged66. “Silent” presidentCARS
2019 MINI Convertible Cooper S in 
San Diego, CA. This 2019 MINI Cooper S Convertible two door FWD fea -
tures a 2.0L four Cyl four cylinder Gasoline engine. It is equipped with a 6 Gear Automatic transmission. The vehicle is Thunder Grey Metallic with 
a Carbon Black interior. It is offered 
with a full factory warranty ... ucs-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2015 Ford F450 in San Diego, CA. 
2015 Ford F450, LTD Miles: 61626, 
WHITE, Drive Axles: Single, Gas, Ford, 
6.8LV10, 360, AUTO, Engine Brake 
(Y/N): Y, Rear Susp Type: Spring, Rear 
Ratio: 4.88, Tire Size: 19.5, Wheel Matl: 
All Steel, Wheelbase: 201, 16500 GVW … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Ford Fusion SE SE 4dr Sedan in 
San Diego, CA. Car shopping should 
be fun and easy. At CarMax it is! Our 
set prices mean you’ll never have to haggle and you can concentrate on finding the right car for you. We stand behind each and every pre-owned car we sell with 5-Day Money-Back Guarantee and 30-Day Limited Warranty … ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
BIKES
2017 Giant XTC Advance frame in Chula Vista, CA. 2017 Giant XTC Carbon frame hardtail, size medium, 27.5 plus/29er, frame is brand new, never used, comes with headset, rear axle boost spacing, 12x148, very light frame, excellent for cross country 29er or 27.5 … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Pure Fixed Gear Track Bike in San 
Diego, CA. I built this up late last spring from brand new components. This was my commuter for the sum -
mer months. Selling because I’d like to build up a non-fixed steel framed single speed next … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationFlat Black Fixed Gear Fixie (men’s size, 
L/XL) in San Diego, CA. Fixed Gear 
Fixie in decent condition Painted flat 
black with black track wheels and 
white chain. Size is a L or XL. I bought 
the bike a few years ago, rode it 
maybe 15 times, and it has sat in my 
garage since … ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Sales Development Representative in Boston, MA - We’re currently seeking 
a Sales Development Associate to 
join our rapidly growing company 
in Boston. We’re looking for a sales-
driven person that is entrepreneurial 
and is looking for an opportunity 
to grow and make real impact....ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationSales and Marketing Manager in Santa Monica, CA - This is your step -
ping stone to becoming a core com -
ponent of a fast-growing startup! 
This role will teach you how to launch 
a product and what it takes to run 
your own business. After which you’ll 
have the opportunity to travel and 
take Hooked to additional cities or 
join our core team as a Regional 
Director for Hooked at our headquar -
ters in Santa Monica, California!...ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Supply Chain Planner, Supply 
Planning in Seattle, WA - This job 
contributes to Starbucks success by 
developing tactical and strategic sup-
ply plans, and establishing inventory levels for assigned production mate -
rials or finished goods to achieve customer service, supply chain and financial objectives...ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
CCAA Championship
vs. CSU San BernardinoGeneva, Ohio (SPIRE Institute)@ CSU Dominguez HillsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Golf
Softball
W Waterpolo
Baseball8 AM
3 PM
All Day
3 PM4/234/254/264/26
The no. 14 UC San Diego 
women’s water polo team held 
off local rival San Diego State 
University 9–5 on Saturday, April 20, taking the annually contested Harper Cup from the 17-ranked Aztecs for the fourth consecutive season. With the victory, in which UCSD scored the first 8 goals, the 
Tritons roll into the postseason having won 11 of their last 13 games, currently sitting at an 18–13 overall record.
The Tritons exploded with 
a 5-goal second quarter, which they entered already leading due 
to an early goal from sophomore 
attacker Grace Pevehouse. Just a minute and a half into the second quarter, sophomore utility player Sydney Boland doubled the 
Tritons’ lead; immediately a fter, 
sophomore center Ciara Franke 
stole possession and scored a second goal in just twenty seconds. 
A minute and a half later, 
sophomore attacker Tera Richardson scored on a powerplay to put UCSD up 4–0, a commanding start to arguably the biggest match of the season. Less than 30 seconds later, SDSU defender Casia Morrison was called for a penalty foul, and Aztec head coach Carin Crawford was assessed a yellow card. This 
gave the Tritons a penalty, which Pevehouse converted for her team-leading 52nd goal in the season. The onslaught wasn’t over, though, 
as sophomore utility player Taylor Onstott scored with 49 seconds 
remaining to send the Tritons into 
the half up 6–0.
The Tritons would once again 
capitalize on the power play in the second half as senior center Chanel Schilling drew a foul on SDSU, then scored on the ensuing power play for UCSD’s seventh unanswered goal. And the Tritons, however, didn’t let up, as Schilling scored again to give UCSD a commanding 8–0 lead.
With just under three minutes 
left in the third period, UCSD’s 
Richardson committed a penalty foul, but SDSU defender Hannah Carillo couldn’t convert the resulting penalty, keeping SDSU scoreless. However, Aztec utility player Shelby Kra ft took advantage 
of a power play due to a foul 
by UCSD’s sophomore keeper 
Bennett Bugelli to end the shutout with 2:16 le ft in the third quarter. 
Late in the period, Higginson drew a penalty against Onstott, putting Kraft at the line, where she scored 
to end the quarter 8–2.
Despite a spirited attempt at a 
comeback, the Aztecs ultimately came up short despite three fourth-period goals. Senior Triton attacker Shelby Stender scored the ninth UCSD goal of the game to keep the match out of reach for the hosting SDSU.
Although they were outshot 
31–27, the Tritons almost doubled the Aztecs’ scoring, with two goals each from Schilling and Pevehouse. A fter making a career-
high 14 saves, Bugelli was named 
match MVP .
UCSD enters the postseason 
bearing few signs of a 1–6 start to 
the season, recording an 8–3 record in March and a 5–1 record in April; they move into next weekend’s Western Water Polo Association tournament in Geneva, Ohio as the top seed, having won all four in-conference contests. The Tritons 
will play on April 26 for a spot in the conference semi finals.
Unable to build o ff a four-
game sweep of California State University, Bernadino last week, the No. 7 UC San Diego Tritons cooled down against California State University, Los Angeles (18–23), splitting the series 
which began in Los Angeles and 
wrapped up at Triton Ballpark on Saturday, April 20. With the two losses, UCSD (28–9) remains perched atop the California Collegiate Athletic Association standings, but its lead has now been cut down to less than two games over the California State University, Monterey Bay Otters (26–14), who are in the midst of making a major late-season surge.
Despite the back and forth 
first few innings of the first game 
of the series on Thursday, April 
18 game in LA, the Tritons ended up on the losing side a fter a 
6-run 7th inning by the Golden Eagles that ultimately was the difference. 
The Tritons lost 11–5, as 
UCSD ace Ted Stuka was o ff 
his game. The team leader in 
ERA lasted just one and a third innings while giving up 4 runs. Senior right fielder RJ Prince and 
company responded with some offense of their own as a 2-run 
shot from Prince, timely at-bats, scrappy baserunning got the Tritons right back into the game. The game was knotted up at 5–5 until the 7th when Cal State LA did all their damage scoring 6 runs on 5 hits and 3 walks, which essentially wrapped up the game.
In game 2, which also took 
place in LA, the Tritons turned the tables and with help from a monster 8-run inning won by a score of 11–5. Senior in fielder 
Alex Eliopulos had a huge day at the plate, going 3–4 with 6 RBIs including a bases-clearing double. The trio of pitchers 
Preston Mott, Kyle Lucke, and 
Jonah Dipoto combined to limit the Golden Eagles to 5 hits. 
Redshirt catcher Aaron Kim also contributed with a 3-run home run which pushes his season total to 8, good for third in the CCAA.  
Game 3 of the series was very 
much like the first two games. 
Both teams answered each other and it remained neck and neck until the end, but Cal State LA came out victorious by a score of 10–7. As if the previous two games didn’t feature enough offense, both teams combined 
for 25 hits in this one, including 6 home runs, with the Golden Eagles’ Adam Gordon blasting 3 of them. Prince had another nice showing o ffensively with a 2–5 
day and a homer, while senior center fielder Chris Schasteen 
also registered 3 hits. 
However, the Tritons 
continued their series struggles with pitching as junior starter Luke Mattson and senior reliever Jonah Dipoto did not have their 
best outings, as together they surrendered 10 runs. Losing 
two out of the last three for the Tritons is less than ideal as both San Francisco State University and Cal State Monterey are knocking at the door.
The second slated game on 
Saturday and the last game of the series was a wild one. This 
game featured more pitching and defense in comparison to the previous games as both starters pitched into the final seventh 
inning. A fter manufacturing runs 
in the first and fourth innings, 
the Tritons went into the 9th inning with a 2–1 lead. However, it seemed like heartbreak for the Tritons as Cal State LA pieced together 4 hits and took the 3–2 lead before Lucke recorded the final out of the inning. But, 
somehow, someway, the Tritons found a way to come back. A single by White started the inning, followed by a sacri fice 
bunt that got him to second. After a walk and an in field 
single, the Tritons tied it up on a fielder’s choice. When Blake 
Baumgartner walked a fter the 
RBI by Eliopulos, it loaded the bases for Kim, who did what he does best and sent, Golden Eagles pitcher, Alec Daily’s 1–0 pitch over the right- field fence 
for a walk-o ff grand slam. It 
was a crazy turn of events and emotions for the Tritons, who took this must-win game to split the series at 2–2 with this 7–3 win in seven innings.
The UCSD Tritons will look 
to get back on track next week when they pack their bags and travel up to Carson, CA to start their series against California State University, Dominguez Hills (14–26).This week, the UC San Diego 
softball team faced o ff against 
conference rival California State University, San Marcos Cougars in a four-game series on the road. The Tritons beat out the Cougars, 
winning three of four. With this week’s results, coming on the tails of being named the top seed in the Region for the NCAA Tournament, UCSD’s record moves up to 29–10 for the season and 22–7 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play.
Though the Tritons won the 
series 3–1, the one win by Cal State San Marcos in the second game of 
the series came as a bit of a shock. 
UCSD was the heavy favorite coming into the series. UCSD sits atop the conference rankings while Cal State San Marcos is at the very bottom. The Tritons (26–9) 
have almost as many wins as the Cougars (11–26) have losses. In all of the UCSD so ftball program’s 
history, the Tritons had never lost a game to the Cougars, and coming into this series on a 14-game win streak against Cal State San Marcos, the team wasn’t looking like they could lose. 
In this game, which ended 
2–0, UCSD struggled to produce offensively. The Tritons only had 
two hits the entire game. This 
lackluster performance is a bit concerning, especially when looking at the first game of the 
series. In the first game, the 
Tritons narrowly escaped defeat in a close 1–0 victory. In that game, UCSD had a similar low offensive output, managing 3 hits 
and 1 run. However, in the next two games, the Tritons were able to find themselves and their bats 
to bounce back, winning the final 
leg of the series convincingly with scores of 5–2 and 3–0, respectively.
Freshman le ft fielder Keila 
Bosinger had a solid performance over the week. Her one run in the first game helped the Tritons earn their first victory of the series. 
Bosinger followed that game-deciding performance up with two runs and three hits across the final 
two games. 
Next week, in the final regular 
season game, the Tritons will take on another conference foe in California State University, San Bernardino Coyotes in a four-game series. While the outing against the Coyotes should not be very challenging for the Tritons, this game does provide an opportunity for UCSD to pad their record, giving them better seeding in the CCAA tournament. This series will 
be played at home at UCSD with two games on Thursday, April 25 at 
3 p.m. and 5 p.m. and two games on Friday, April 26 at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m.
The Tritons are posed to enter the Western Water Polo Association tournament as the top seed after their in-conference wins.
The baseball team divided its wins and losses evenly against Cal State Los Angeles, winning once away and once at home.UC San Diego was the heavy favorite to win against Cal State San Marcos, holding as many wins as the Cougars have losses. BY Praveen nair
contributing writer 
BY Hayden  Wellbeloved
staff writer BY Wesley xiao
senior staff writer pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
ha yden wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.eduWesley xiao    wex057@ucsd.eduWomen’s Water Polo Defeats Aztecs in Harper Cup Rivalry 
Tritons Salvage Series Split with Late Walkoff Grand Slam Softball Holds Place on Top of CCAA After Series Victory
SOFTBALL16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 22, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
THIS IS A PAID ADVERTISEMENT