The Academic Affairs Department held a town 
hall meeting on Jan. 8 at the Great Hall that 
outlined construction and curriculum plans 
for the two new colleges that will be added to UC San 
Diego in the coming years. Before an audience of about 
15 people, Dean of Undergraduate Education John 
Moore presented the housing arrangements and Seventh College theme currently under consideration, as well 
as the refurbishment of existing campus residencies. 
Members of the Seventh College Workgroup, Council of Provosts, and other administrators were also present.
The estimated size of the first class at Seventh will 
be around 700 students, mainly comprised of transfers 
and freshmen, with an additional 2300 or so students 
expected to be served each year.
The curriculum is still being decided, but the current 
plan is to center it around the tentative theme of “ A Changing Planet. ” This theme’s written proposal is currently under review by academic committees 
that will, if approved, be sent to UC President Janet 
Napolitano for approval. 
“It’s clear that the planet is changing in many ways, 
not only environmentally, but politically, economically, and in many different dimensions, ” Moore said. “This would be conducive to interdisciplinary work because, 
you can imagine work on migration, for example, as 
aligning with this theme. ”
The college will require three capstone courses for 
four-year students, and one for transfer students. These capstone courses are expected to be developed with a focus on encompassing many different academic fields. 
Capstone courses that will be offered will be in either 
arts, humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, or qualitative reasoning.
“The three capstone course will integrate material from other courses … they will focus on problems and projects that are addressing problems, ” Moore said. 
“Some of them will involve community and group 
projects. ” 
Moore noted that the impact of the capstone and 
alternative class requirements on course loads will vary depending on major, and while some students will fit them in nicely, for others, “it will require some 
quarters where you take more than 16 units, but that’s 
no different from the other colleges. ” 
In order to admit students by 2020, the college 
curriculum will need to be established by the time students apply in the fall of this year.  
Moore also highlighted the long-term plans and 
rearrangements that will be made to accommodate housing with the addition of the new college.
“From the Rita [Atkinson Residences] by the 
medical school, [graduate] students are going to move out in 2020 because there’s going to be new graduate 
facilities in Mesa, ” Moore said. “Once those apartments 
become vacant, then some of the transfer students will move to those apartments. That will free up space in 
The Village, where Seventh College will start. The idea 
is that we will create some administrative space around The Village, and eventually The Village will become 
Seventh College. ”
Moore also explained that the housing located in 
Sixth College will be refurbished for junior and senior student housing after the college itself is moved to 
the upcoming Living and Learning Community in 2020. The goal for this new housing is to provide an 
experience similar to living off campus.
“By having Sixth College move to the new facility 
and by revamping the Sixth College and Rita apartments into upper-division housing, we will have a gain of 
The City of San Diego’s 
Public Safety and Livable 
Neighborhoods Committee 
has unanimously approved the 
construction of a new fire station 
on the UC San Diego campus at its 
meeting on Jan. 8. The proposed size and location of the facility will be an approximate 10,500 square 
feet building near the intersection 
of North Torrey Pines Road and Northpoint Driveway. 
The construction of the facility 
will be overseen as a partnership between the city of San Diego and 
UCSD. The fire station will respond 
to emergencies in the surrounding neighborhoods in the local area in 
addition to serving the needs of the campus, which is expected to offer nearly 20,000 undergraduate beds 
within the next three years.
“This fire station is long 
overdue and I am appreciative of UC San Diego for their patience and commitment throughout the 
process,” City Councilwoman 
Barbara Bry, who represents La Jolla, University City and nearby VOLUME 52, ISSUE 12  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 14, 2018  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD Administrators 
Unconcerned with Federal Shutdown
The impact of the current federal 
government shutdown on campus has 
been mostly limited to research grants. 
SAN DIEGO
BY  Andrew Ha
Contributing Writer
City Committee Unanimously Approves Long-Needed Fire Station
A student examines flowers at the Farmer’s Market in Town Square.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Michael CiagloThe partial U.S. government 
shutdown could have a 
direct effect on some of 
UC San Diego’s federally funded 
contracts and grants. Most 
researchers will be able to continue 
working, but some may be sent stop work orders by their respective 
sponsoring federal agency. Research 
funded by the National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration, 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department 
of Justice, and Department of 
Homeland Security could be impacted. 
“Many UCSD researchers receive 
funding from these agencies. The partial shutdown will not impact 
those whose grants have already 
begun — only anticipated new research projects or supplemental 
funding will be stopped during this 
time,” Assistant Vice Chancellor of Contracts and Grants Linda Collins said to the UCSD Guardian 
in an email. “Submission of new 
applications will be stopped for agencies that do not yet have a 
budget. ” 
Research funded by the 
Department of Defense, National Institutes of Health, and Department 
of Energy is unaffected because these departments approved their 
2019 yearly fiscal budgets before 
the shutdown. Although the other agencies have been impacted, they 
will not yet affect UCSD’s research.
“ As far as I know, there are no 
researcher’s projects so far that have been stalled due to lack of 
supplemental funding. However, if the shutdown continues as is 
expected, further impacts will be 
likely, especially those with NSF funding as that is the larger funder 
to UCSD that is subject to the partial 
shutdown, ” Collins added.
To get funding for future 
research projects where funding may be stalled, UCSD is providing examples of how the shutdown 
could affect the school to the 
Federal Government Relations Representative and the leadership 
at the UC Office of the President. 
Both groups will work to influence congressional representatives 
to address the potential lack of 
funding.   
The Housing Dining and 
Hospitality department has not been By Tyler faurot  News EditorCAMPUS
Seventh College Theme, Housing Announced at Town HallPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
An on-campus 
teach-in explains 
the recent San Diego 
border closure and 
aims to educate 
students about 
immigration.
CASUAL SEX
BEALE  STREETWHY  TO  BE  MORE  VOCAL
A  STORY  OF  LOVE  AND   INJUSTICEOpinion,  Page   4
A&E,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Unsurprisingly, research 
also demonstrates 
that in casual sexual 
relationships women 
fail to achieve orgasm 
most of the time, even 
with long-term hookup 
partners, likely because 
of the understood 
emphasis on male 
pleasure.”MONDAY
 H 61 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 57
TUESDAY
H 65 L 57
THURSDAY
H 62 L 57
BIPARTISANSHIP .............4
BANDERSNATCH............9
SOCIAL MEDIA..............10
MOOD LIGHTING..........11
W. BASKETBALL...........16NATIONAL
Geena Roberts
Casual sex
 PAGE 4For years, UC San Diego’s campus has been categorized as an area with inadequate emergency coverage.
BY  Tyler  Faurot
news Editor
See FIRE STATION,  page 3 See SHUTDOWN,  page 3See TOWN HALL,  page 3THE US AND
MEXICO BORDER
Features, page 62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
A LONG BUS RIDE By Michi Sora
Friday, January 4
4:26 a.m. Gas / Water / Sewer LeakW ater coming up through manhole 
cover and shooting five feet into air 
Referred To Other Agency ‐ San 
Diego Police & City Shops
Saturday, January 5
12:18 a.m. Noise DisturbancePer Asst. Resident Dean, loud music could be heard from ground-level bathrooms
Referred to Student Conduct
9:46 a.m. Welfare CheckAdult male with no shoes told reporting party he was released from 
hospital and that he was cold
Gone on Arrival10:30 a.m. Vandalism to VehicleUnknown suspect(s) smashed out window on victim’s vehicle, damage 
$250.00 
Report Taken10:50 a.m. Welfare CheckPer Asst. Resident Dean, adult male 
with no shoes at end of visitor spaces
Service Provided11:09 p.m. Noise DisturbanceLoud music and hot tubbing Service Provided
Sunday, January 6
7:08 a.m. Disturbance - Domestic Violence
Male and female heard arguing near 
La Jolla del Sol ApartmentsUnable To Locate6:20 p.m. Petty Theft - BicycleLoss $600.00 
Online Report10:22 p.m. Marijuana Contact
Per Housing Assistant, odor of marijuana coming from unknown 
suite in Tenaya Hall
Unable To LocateUnknown Time - Petty Theft BicycleLoss $300.00 
Online Report
Monday, January 7
6:00 p.m. Petty TheftUnknown suspect(s) stole victim’s 
gaming console and several video 
games from common area of Brennan Hall suite during the holiday break, no signs of forced entry, loss $815.00 
Report Taken
10:30 a.m. Burglary to Vehicle Unknown suspect(s) forced entry into UCSD vehicle near Natural Sciences Building and stole victim’s work tools, 
loss $1,000.00, damage $400.00
Report Taken 11:51 a.m. BatteryPatient bit and kicked staff members 
at Cardiovascular Center 
Report Taken12:47 p.m. Medical AidY oung adult with nose bleed for five hours at Douglas Hall
Service Provided 
3:10 p.m. DisturbanceReport of Preacher talking nearby Library Walk, videotaping while 
preaching 
Checks OK5:00 p.m. Extortion By ThreatUnknown suspect(s) extorted $150.00 from victim by threatening to expose 
explicit photos of victim on internet at Atlantis Hall in Roger Revelle College
Report Taken8:44 p.m. Injury
Solo skateboarding accident at Voigt 
Dip, victim sustained facial cuts Transported To Hospital 
Tuesday, January 8
8:14 a.m. FireElectric kettle left on stove in Mesa Nueva Building C, caught fire Service Provided
2:00 p.m. Petty Theft
Report of stolen cell phone at 
Robinson Auditorium, loss $414.00 Report Taken
Wednesday, Januar y 9
12:50 a.m. Noise DisturbanceLoud Drumming at Meteor HallUnable to Locate
4:25 p.m. Petty Theft
Victim’s skateboard stolen from just inside front door area of apartment in Brennan Hall, loss $99.00 
Online Report
7:00 p.m. Petty Theft - BicycleHealth Sciences Biomedical Research Facility, loss $100.00 Report Taken
9:00 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Occurred near Atlantis Hall Bike Racks, loss $100.00 Online Report
9:08 p.m. Citizen Contact
Trick skaters at Pangea Parking StructureWill Cooperate11:26 p.m. Collision With Injury
UC vehicle vs. Pedestrian on Revelle College Drive, minor injuries 
sustained by pedestrian, medical transportation declined 
Report Taken
Thursday, January 10
12:53 a.m. Gas / Water / Sewer Leak
Odor of natural gas near Lot 502
Referred To Other UCSD Department2:02 a.m. Disturbance - Psych SubjectReport of heavily intoxicated male 
student at Mesa Verde Hall, expressing 
suicidal ideations Transported To Hospital11:10 a.m. Forgery
Unknown suspect used $100.00 counterfeit U.S. currency bill to make a purchase at bookstore Report Taken 
1:00 p.m. Medical Aid
Y oung adult female at Marshall 
Apartments West with headache, experiencing neck pain, vision problems and arm numbness 
Service Provided
9:00 p.m. Counter Collision ReportUC vehicle vs. Pole at Lot 703Report Taken10:00 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
At Miramar Building 1, loss $1,500.00 
Report Taken
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Go buy some airpods and cry about it.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Richard Lu
Jade  Knows His Gun-Wong
Madeline Park
Chloe Esser
Daisy Scott
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Co-Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Christopher Robertson
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Rowena Ma
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
upper-division housing beds, ” Moore 
said. “That will allow students to live 
in those places in apartment-style 
living without a meal plan, so that can students can live essentially as if 
they were living off campus but paying 
below market value. ”
He stated that this is all an effort 
toward a long-term goal of combating what Moore called “compressed” 
housing and to get colleges to their 
intended capacity.
The plan also includes a goal to 
build a completely new college in the parking lot near the La Jolla Playhouse, which will become Eighth College.
According to Moore, “by then, we 
should be able to accommodate the growth [in student population] that 
we’ve seen. We will need eight colleges 
in order to do that. ”
A student question from the 
audience asked how the new additions will impact space for parking, to which 
Moore explained that both Eighth 
College construction and North Torrey Pines Living and Learning 
Neighborhood will have underground parking.
“In about five years, there will 
be more parking than there is now, ” 
Moore told the student.
There was no indication as to 
whether additional town halls will be held in the future.
During the presentation, Moore 
noted that student representation for the upcoming college will be provided 
by A.S. Council. The UCSD Guardian 
reached out to A.S. President Kiara Gomez, who currently sits as a 
member of the advisory council to Seventh College planning.  
Regarding how this representation 
will be decided, Gomez told 
the Guardian that “for student representation on committees, there 
are a few ways we go about this, but 
all [student] committee members are appointed, not elected. ”
Gomez elaborated that A.S. 
senators are required to sit on 
external committees on campus and 
report back to the council. Usually, these committee positions are filled 
by recommendation the president receives.
“I think campus planning and 
changes [are] a great opportunity for 
students who will be going into similar fields in the future to get a glance of how 
campus planning and development 
works while also providing the needed student perspective, ” Gomez said. 
areas said. “The UC San Diego Fire Station is a much-needed infrastructure addition which will 
greatly benefit the surrounding 
community. ” 
Bry is running for Mayor of San 
Diego in 2020.
According to an article by the 
San Diego Union-Tribune that was 
published last year, the estimated 
cost of the station’s construction would be about $10 million of 
school funding, with an annual $4 
million in personnel and operations costs to be covered by the city.
“UC San Diego is pleased that 
the San Diego City Council has approved a fire station to be built on 
the campus, ” Chancellor Khosla said 
in a press release. “We look forward to working together with the City 
of San Diego on this vital project. 
UC San Diego is significantly growing its enrollment to make the university one of the nation’s premier residential campuses and it is critical that we address life safety 
issues as part of our growth. ”
Back in 2010, a fire safety 
deployment planning study produced by a consulting group for 
the city concluded that San Diego had an insufficient number of fire 
crews and stations to properly 
respond to emergencies in certain areas. One of those areas listed 
as having inadequate emergency 
coverage was UCSD.
A report from the same group in 
2017 reiterated, “ As the 2010 study identified, over several decades as the City grew … it did not add 
enough fire stations to equitably 
cover all areas with best-practices-based response times. The only 
way to materially improve response 
times is to add the fire stations identified in this study. ”City officials also note that the 
rapid growth of campus population has led to an increase in incidents in 
areas beyond what existing stations 
can cover.
The proposed space is expected 
to accommodate 12 personnel for every 24-hour shift, which is the standard size for a fire station crew. 
The facility will also include enough 
space to dock three fire-vehicle apparatuses, as well as administrative 
offices, living quarters, kitchen and 
dining spaces, and exercise rooms.
With the addition of this 
on-campus fire station, UCSD will join UCLA, UC Davis, UC Santa Barbara, UC Merced, and UC Santa 
Cruz on the list of UC campuses 
with their own fire stations.affected by the shutdown because it does not receive any federal, state, or campus funding, Associate Director 
of University Communications Jade 
Griffin said to the UCSD Guardian in an email. 
Moreover, funding to students 
through the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will not be 
postponed due to the shutdown. 
“Schools may be impacted 
to a small degree given that the automated confirmation with 
Selective Service is out during the shutdown. As an alternative, schools 
may gather the necessary verification 
via a website or directly from the student,” Director of Financial 
Aid and Scholarship Office Vonda 
Garcia said to the UCSD Guardian in an email. “Likewise, students 
applying for 2019-20 aid via the 
FAFSA, Free Application for Federal Student Aid, are not affected. ”Because the Selective Service 
Agency, which keeps records on people who may be subject to 
military conscription, will not have 
its program available, schools will have to use different methods to 
ensure that applying students signed 
up with the agency. 
If the partial U.S. government 
shutdown continues, there will be concrete effects on the school’s contract and grants, but overall 
those effects will be minimal, 
Collins stated. 
A.S. Council is Charged With Finding Student Representation for the New Colleges, Will Likely Choose a Sitting Senator
UCSD Will Pay for Site’s Construction, City for Personnel and Maintenance Contracts and Grants May Be Affected Later On▶ TOWN HALL , from page 1
▶ FIRE STATION , from page 1 ▶ SHUTDOWN , from page 1TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.edu
TYLER FAUROT  news@ucsdguardian.edu Andrew HA  AH1A@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
After Democrats won a majority in the U.S. House of 
Representatives last November, soon-to-be Speaker Nancy 
Pelosi stated that the focus of the House Democrats would be to “strive for bipartisanship. We believe that we have a responsibility to seek common ground where we can, stand our ground where we can’t, but we must try.” This may seem like a good sentiment. After all, in an era where political rhetoric errs on the side of demonizing those with opposing ideologies, finding common ground seems like a healthy change of pace. However, when this effort means conceding to a Republican ideology that is constantly moving further right, seeking bipartisanship will never create unity between the progressive and establishment wings of the Democratic Party. If Democrats are to have any success in this currently divided government, their voters, local party chapters, and the party at large must overcome ideological differences in order to form a unified blue wave.
 Progressive House freshmen like Alexandria 
Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley immediately made waves among establishment Democrats when they protested the House member orientation for promoting bipartisanship through the lens of corporate interests. Ocasio-Cortez tweeted, “Our ‘bipartisan’ Congressional orientation is co-hosted by a corporate lobbyist group … Lobbyists are here. Goldman Sachs is here. Where’s labor? Activists? Frontline community leaders?” While bipartisanship has traditionally been partially rooted in mutual support for corporate America by establishment Democrats and Republicans, incoming progressives made it clear that this arrangement would not work for them.
Unfortunately, extending a hand across the aisle is 
more important to establishment Democrats than closing divides within the Democratic Party. Days after 2019 began, disagreements arose over Pelosi’s push for PAYGO, the rule that new mandatory spending legislation must be funded from a tax increase or a cut in other mandatory spendings, which could jeopardize access to student loans, Medicare, services under the Affordable Care Act, and other social services. Establishment Democrats claim that in order to work with the Republican Senate, PAYGO must be in place to maintain the national deficit. Progressive Democrats conversely argue that PAYGO should not be followed, considering that Republicans stopped following the rule in 2011. This represents a drop in the bucket of active arguments taking place among House Democrats, which also includes the Green New Deal, how to reopen the government, and whether policies like Medicare for All are viable inclusions in the party’s platform.
While the infighting of the Democratic Party is not a new 
phenomenon, the widespread demonization of Democratic Party notables on the part of voters has become increasingly common. Two weeks into the new year, both Senator Elizabeth Warren and Representative Tulsi Gabbard have announced their 2020 presidential campaigns. Immediately following these announcements came harsh attacks of character. Warren found herself being attacked from the center for being too liberal and from the left for being a traitor to Bernie Sanders in the 2016 election. Gabbard, on the other hand, has been viciously criticized by the establishment for her foreign policy stances and her previously anti-LGBT views from the early 2000s, even though these same establishment critics never offered the same critique of 2016 candidates like Hillary Clinton for having historically held the same views. While it is important to vet candidates on a policy basis, inconsistently touting decades-old viewpoints that do not apply in the current day does nothing more than further divide the party. No one should be immune to criticism, but all critiques should be rooted in fact rather than character assassination.
Local chapters of the Democratic Party across the nation 
would be apt to serve as intermediaries to these debates, allowing platforms for both politicians and voters to connect in order to work out any discrepancies. For the San Diego County Democratic Party, however, pushing for cohesion does not appear to be a priority. On its Facebook page, the organization comes across as only interested in either rallying voters behind a mutual hatred of President Donald Trump or hosting blanket “Get Out the Vote” events without actually facilitating an opportunity to hold the national Democratic Party and its representatives to a standard of overcoming disagreements. Rather than attempting to appease both sides, local groups like the SDCDP should offer better opportunities for voters to voice their concerns and learn the facts on bills, issues, and candidates.
Both Democratic Party leadership and voters have a 
long way to go before unity can be expected. Considering that the Republican-held Senate and Trump presidency remain obstacles for any legislation promoting the ideals that members of the Democratic House ran on, it is important for constituents across the country to be engaged with party infighting while abstaining from demonizing party members. This engagement comes in the form of calling their representatives to voice their opinions on upcoming House votes, fully educating themselves on bills and candidates, and gearing up for Election Day 2020. Only through these acts of civic engagement will constituents ensure that the promises they voted for become realized in the efforts put forth by the Democratic Party.Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
If you are straight and have hooked up with 
someone in college, congratulations: you are one of the 60 to 85 percent of undergraduates in 
the United States who have had a casual heterosexual 
fling. These are prevalent on campus but unfortunately, 
tend to benefit one partner over the other. Ladies, if it wasn’t obvious in the moment, you probably did not get the same sexual attention you gave to your partner and are far more likely to face social costs for your engagement in casual sex. While men propagate many of the negative aspects of hookups — less pleasure, objectification, and slut-shaming — they 
aren’t the only ones who can change their behavior 
to make casual sex more respectful, liberating, and enjoyable for women. So, women of UC San Diego, if you are going to engage in casual sex, I recommend you do a couple of things to give yourself (and other women) a better experience, sexually, and socially.
 F i r s t  a n d  f o r e m o s t ,  I  s u g g e s t  y o u  o w n  a n d  
discuss your desire for and right to sexual pleasure. Several studies, including a 2012 research study on college students’ sex lives, found that “both men and women reported that men are typically not concerned with women’s pleasure in hookups” and that “both men and women question women’s (but not men’s) entitlement to pleasure in hookups.” Essentially, 
when a majority of college women internalize and act 
upon the belief that a woman’s sexual role is purely to please the man in hookups, they are reinforcing that their objectification and lack of similar sexual attention during hookups is OK. Clearly, if women don’t believe and then vocalize that they are equally deserving of sexual pleasure in hookups, hookups will continue to fall short of the gender-role liberating experiences we tend to promote them as.
Unsurprisingly, research also demonstrates that 
in casual sexual relationships women fail to achieve orgasm most of the time, even with long-term hookup partners, likely because of the understood emphasis on male pleasure. In my humble opinion, you deserve to orgasm, or at least be given reciprocal sexual attention, during casual sex. While women are most likely falling into  subconscious biases during hookups that cause them to avoid speaking up 
about their sexual wants and needs, this just makes 
it more important that women voice their desires; by not speaking up, you’re subconsciously feeding into dangerous stereotypes about female sexual subservience and — tragically — missing out on better sex. So, if you want women to be viewed as more than sex objects, and to have better sex, don’t 
be afraid to ask for some sexual attention in your next 
hookup. Plus, say, “thank you, next,” to guys who refuse to care about anything other than their own sexual enjoyment. 
Just as importantly, consider that how you talk 
about and react to women having casual sex shapes the larger societal conversation and feelings around 
women’s sexuality and equality. In my experience, 
female college students mostly believe they are supportive of women’s sexual freedom and equality; we like to think times have changed. In reality, however, research shows that most of us only support other women engaging in hookups when they talk
By: Geena Roberts  //  Sta ff WriterCum Here O ften? Why College Women 
Should Be More Vocal During Casual Sex
Jacob Sutherland   jsuther@ucsd.eduDemocrats Need to Bridge the Party Divide
 before They Cross the Aisle
By: Jacob Sutherland // Senior Sta ff WriterSee SEX, page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
about them in ways that remove their sexual agency 
and overt sexuality. According to a 2013 study, women purposefully use ambiguous language when talking about hookups, discount the number of 
hookups they have, and often blame substances for the 
actual hookup itself to avoid being labeled as “sluts.” Similarly, a sociological study on the infamous “walk of shame” found that women often feel shame post-hookup because they still feel that they have violated a social norm by having casual sex. Neither one of these conclusions is that surprising, but women must take responsibility for our own role in perpetuating 
gender inequality through indirect slut-shaming. 
To reduce that awful feeling of shame for hooking up, for starters, we can listen to Ms. Norbury and, “stop calling each other sluts and whores.” Secondly, when you listen to your girlfriend’s hookup stories, reassure her that she doesn’t need an excuse for why she chose to have sex with anyone, and own that you don’t need a reason either. Lastly, challenge yourself to ask for the details. This will help level the gender-retelling gap and destigmatize your and your friends’ views on hookups. 
Women who hookup during college deal with a 
lot. Society has a long way to go in ensuring college women’s sexual pleasure during hookups and in making casual sex less shameful for women. But, ladies, if you choose to take personal action to solve these large-scale problems, you’ll be making positive changes for your female friends, UCSD’s hookup culture, and yourself, because, if nothing else, at least you’ll be having better sex.
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
Geena Roberts   G1Robert@ucsd.edu  ▶ SEX, from page 4
CHRISTMAS 
SPECIAL   
By System 326 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG AND MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.org
Following Oct. 13, a caravan of C entral American migrants 
traveling to the United States has become a point of fixation 
for President Donald Trump, who temporarily closed a few San 
Diego border crossings in late November to presumably prevent the caravan’s entr y into the United States. Since then, another 
caravan has formed in Honduras, and the U.S. government is 
experiencing a temporar y shutdown because Trump has been 
unable to obtain funding for his proposed U.S.-Mexico border 
wall. 
 The C enter for U.S.-Mexican Studies hosted a Migrant 
Caravan Teach-In on Thursday, Nov. 29 to educate the UC San Diego community about the caravan and the topics of immigration, law, and ethics at large. The event consisted of a 
series of 10-minute lectures 
from six different speakers 
a n d  i n c l u d e d  a  Q & A 
segment.  
 A  R o ge r  R e vel l e 
College junior Alexandra  A l v a re n g a ,  w h o  h e lp e d or g a n i z e  t h e  e v e nt  a s 
chair of t he Movimiento 
Estudiantil Chicano de  
Aztlán, reminded audience 
memb ers to ack now le dge their privilege, especially 
in regards to their attendance at such an event. 
 “It’s important to be aware of your own privilege,” she 
said. “We’re talking about asylum-seekers in a space where they can’t even be. It’s important to always keep that in the back of 
your mind as you’re doing things in your ever yday life, because 
that in itself goes a long way, just to have that kind of awareness 
and that kind of knowledge. ”
 T h e  t e a c h - i n  bro a d l y  out l i n e d  t h e  mu s t - k n ow 
information about this caravan and also delved deeper into niche topics t ypic a l ly g loss e d over by mainst re am me di a 
coverage, such as the violence faced by the LGBTQ migrant 
community and the caravan’s difficulty in accessing medical services. The speakers explained that this particular migrant 
caravan consists of people mostly from the C entral American 
countries of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador who are f leeing issues such as violence and government corruption. 
The caravan is traveling toward the United States for multiple 
reasons, including greater economic opportunity and the chance 
to reunite with family members already here. Group travel 
in a caravan provides increased visibility and security to the group, especially in Mexico, where migrants are frequently held 
hostage, assaulted, and killed by gangs and police. 
In response to the migrant caravan, Trump issued a 90-day 
Presidential Proclamation Addressing Mass Migration Through the S outhern B order of the United States on Nov. 9. It stipulates 
that anyone illegally entering the U.S. outside of ports of entr y will not be eligible for asylum. By prohibiting entrance outside of the ports of entr y, Trump aims to channel migrants to the 
specific ports of entr y themselves. This, in turn, makes it 
easier to curb immigration and process migrants according to the administration’s preference. Many have started colloquially 
referring to this decision as the “asylum ban. ”
“D e spite  a l l  t he  p ol it i c s  arou nd  t h is ,  a l l  t he  r a c is m , 
xenophobia,” political science professor Tom Wong said during 
his presentation, “[the Trump Administration] know[s] how to play the law, and that’s why ‘asylum ban’ is in quotation marks. 
They’re trying to do the ‘asylum ban’ in the same way they did 
the travel/Muslim ban. ”
 Howe ver, as Wong pro ce e de d to p oint out in his 
p r e s e n t a t i o n ,  t h e p r o c l a m a t i o n 
v i o l a t e s  t h e 
I m m i g r a t i o n  a n d Nationality Act,  
which states that any 
individual can claim as y lu m  i r re sp e c t ive 
o f  w h e r e  t h e y 
e nt e r  t h e  Un i t e d 
S t at e s .  Tr u mp  i s 
t h u s  a t t e m p t i n g t o  c h a n g e ,  b y 
presidential proclamation, asylum rules lawfully implemented by C ongress. 
“Say it with me,” Wong said to the audience after explaining 
how INA lawfully protects asylum. “ Asylum is a right. ”
On Nov. 19, a federal judge issued a temporar y restraining 
order on t he inter im r u le implement ing Tr ump’s Nov. 9 proclamation. This restraining order, effective until Dec. 19, 2019, prevents Trump from changing asylum law via presidential 
proclamation. However, as Wong pointed out, it also allows the 
administration more time to decide how to proceed within the 
confines of the law.
It is one t hing to underst and t he lega l implicat ions of 
what’s happening at the border, but another to understand its immediate, and more often directly identifiable, social impacts. 
Sixth College senior Xiangdi Zhang was in Tijuana with her friend Shannell Ciruso when Trump closed the border. The 
student organizat ion Movement E xchange at UCSD was at 
Yoga by the B order, a monthly event in which people come 
together from both sides of the border for binational yoga and 
meditation. Zhang recalls being alerted by a San Diego Union-Tribune reporter that the border was in the process of being shut 
down and then hurriedly driving to different crossing points 
with her group only to find them already closed. 
“We drove to San Ysidro first,” she said. “It was closed; 
“It’s important to be aware of your own privilege, ” she 
said. “We’re talking about asylum-seekers in a space where 
they can’t even be. It’s important to always keep that in the 
back of your mind as you’re doing things in your everyday 
life, because that in itself goes a long way, just to have that 
kind of awareness and that kind of knowledge. ” 
The Migrant 
Caravan 
and the 
US-Mexico 
Border
An on-campus 
teach-in explains the recent San Diego border closure and aims to educate students about immigration.
By Lara Sanli // Senior Sta ff 
Writer
SeeCARAVAN , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Lara Sanli  lsanli@ucsd.edu▶ CARAVAN , from page 6
nobody could go through. We tried to drive to Otay Mesa — closed — and then to Tecate. … We drove, I think half way, to Mexicali 
and turned around. It was just a lot of driving around, not knowing where to go, ver y disoriented. ... There was an app designed 
to indicate border wait time, a border crossing app, but turns out it wasn’t ver y accurate because so many people queued up. I also 
have videos of how long the line was [in] Otay [Mesa] — we were just driving, and the line, it was maybe like from [RIMAC] all the way down to Revelle — that’s how long it was. And that’s for one crosspoint. It’s supposed to be easily done. ”
She personally saw the caravan when it was close to the border. “I saw [the people in the caravan] were living in tents close to the border,” she said, describing her glimpse of the migrant 
caravan. “We saw the narrow street filled with people — it was just not ending. That wasn’t even all of them. There were more in the stadium. A lot of people say a picture is worth a thousand words, but actually seeing it is different. … To this day, I’m still 
processing what’s happening, you know what I mean? On the other side, they’re people just like you and me. And is it wrong for 
them to tr y to seek a better life? No, it’s not. S o is it wrong for the government to tr y to regulate? I can’t say it’s wrong, but it’s 
not doing it in the right way. ”
Zhang, an international student from China, brings a unique perspective to the topic of immigration and views it as a broader 
international issue as opposed to a bipartisan Democratic or Republican one. Her experience at the border did not scare her because she had experienced something similar before. When she was traveling as a 14 year old, her f light had a layover in Eg ypt, 
coincidentally right as the Arab Spring began. The airport shut down, and she was in the airport for a week without food until the Chinese government sent a refugee airplane.
“I knew the Chinese government was working on it — my countr y was going to come for me anyways,” she said, drawing a 
comparison between her experience and the current situation at the border. “ There was a certain level of reassurance that I was going to get home and that there was a place called home. … Most people [were] hosted at the stadium, but it was so overpopulated 
that most people were on the streets, in tents. I couldn’t help but think how people — let’s say kids in that situation — don’t have 
food, are in poor sanitation. The biggest difference between my 14-year-old self and them is not knowing where home is. Most of 
them can’t go home because of violence — especially women experiencing gendered violence. ”
In addition to the difficult conditions migrants face and go through, they are often poorly received by local people, especially 
in Mexico. 
“ There’s the fact that Mexican people didn’t like them there — I was actually talking to the Uber driver there, and I asked him 
about it. He was like, ‘We don’t like them here. We don’t want them. They’re dirtying up the city.’ And I couldn’t help but think 
how this is the same narrative: Americans don’t want Mexicans and then Mexicans don’t want Hondurans, or wherever anyone in 
the caravan [is] from. They can’t go home, and they’re certainly not welcome in the U.S. … so I’m wondering, what’s the future 
for them?”
Despite UCSD being so close to the border, it remains an overly idealistic bubble isolated from many of the world’s greater 
problems. Zhang, however, hopes that UCSD students become more aware of their proximity to some of the world’s most impactful current events, and she encourages them to volunteer or get involved at the border. Students can participate in desert water drops 
along migrant crossing routes by volunteering with the nonprofit organization B order Angels, or participate in Yoga by the B order, 
as Zhang did herself. 
“When you hear about it on the news, you don’t think it’s real — you think it’s far away,” Zhang said. “Experiencing it would 
make you feel more connected to the community. We are so close to the border. It’s only 25 minutes away. It’s so bizarre to think about us sitting here, talking about it, and there are people, another kid, similar to our age.” 
She trailed off and then paused for a moment. “It’s bizarre to think how such different lives could happen at the same time. ”
FOLLOW 
AND LIKE
US ON
 SOCIAL
MEDIA
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
insta: @ucsdguardian
Twitter: @ucsdguardianA&E EDITORS // DAISY SCOTT & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Moving and beautifully filmed, “If Beale Street Could Talk” shares a representative story about love and injustice. 
James Baldwin was one of the most 
influential American authors of the 20th century, openly addressing the unjust 
treatment of African Americans throughout his novels. Released in December 2018, “If Beale Street Could Talk” is a film based on Baldwin’s 1974 book of the same name. Despite the fact 
that Baldwin wrote this story 44 years ago, 
its social commentary on discrimination and flaws in the American justice system sadly still remains relevant  to this day. With a tear-jerking soundtrack, intensely personal cinematography, 
and a cast of talented actors, “If Beale Street 
Could Talk” revisits a story that is representative of too many individuals. 
The film opens with a scene of a young black 
couple walking down a New Y ork City street hand-in-hand. They aren’t speaking, but it is evident from their body language and lingering glances that they are deeply in love. This moment of peace is fleeting, though, as the next scene 
reveals that the man in the opening sequence, 
Alonzo, or “Fonny” (Stephan James), has been imprisoned. Tish (KiKi Layne), his girlfriend, is visiting him in jail. Through the telephone and 
glass separating the prisoners from their loved 
ones, she tells him that she’s pregnant with their child. The audience then follows Tish’s journey of navigating pregnancy as a single black mother in the early 1970s: telling her parents, facing scrutiny from Fonny’s mother and sister, and having to 
work through her ninth term in order to support 
her unborn child. On top of this already difficult arrangement, Tish struggles to free Fonny, who has been falsely accused of raping a Puerto Rican woman he had never even met prior to his arrest. 
Since Tish was with Fonny the night the rape 
occurred, in a completely different neighborhood than where the woman was attacked, the couple knows that a deeper issue underlies this false accusation. The question then becomes: Why was 
Fonny accused? More important, will Tish be able 
to convince a justice system all too willing to paint Fonny as a convenient perpetrator that he is, in fact, innocent?
What truly makes “If Beale Street Could Talk” 
an impactful film is the cast’s powerful acting. When watching the film, viewers get the sense that each of the characters could be people that they know. Each actor exhibits emotions of love, 
frustration, acceptance, and pain through their 
expressions, body language, and speech. Layne’s acting as Tish creates the persona of a strong, determined young woman in love, but also 
interlays this with confusion and uncertainty. In 
this way, Layne creates a truly relatable character, allowing the audience to not only support her in her struggles but also feel the vast array of emotions experienced in every scene. Since Tish 
is the narrator and main character of the film, her 
performance sets a standard and in turn influences the rest of the cast. While Tish’s mother, Sharon (Regina King), responds to Tish’s struggles with 
similar outrage and sadness for Fonny, King’s 
body language makes it clear that Sharon’s main concern is for her daughter. In each of her scenes, King’s interactions with the characters convey that Tish inherited her determined spirit from her mother. King carries her character’s strength 
through exhibitions of motherly love, supporting 
her daughter in everything even when things seem bleak. The interactions between Tish and Sharon indicate that one of this film’s goals is to parallel their mother-daughter relationship with 
the main love story between Tish and Fonny, 
highlighting how love can exist in multiple forms.  It is evident that the solidarity among female 
characters is a focus of “If Beale Street Could Talk, ” but it is worth mentioning that the male 
characters involved also clearly share messages of 
love and support. Tish’s father, Joseph (Colman Domingo), and Fonny’s father, Frank (Michael Beach), instantly bond over the fact that they will 
share a grandchild. They tirelessly work toward 
raising enough money to afford a lawyer for Fonny, expressing how their priorities are making sure their families are well-fed and happy. Joseph supports Tish just as much as her mother does, 
cradling Tish’s head through bouts of pregnancy-
related pain and nausea. Moreover, Fonny’s persistent love for Tish allows a truly heart-wrenching romance story to unfold. Throughout 
the film, Tish remembers the moments that led 
up to Fonny’s arrest, and in these glimpses of memory, the audience is able to watch them fall in love with each other. Stephan James’ performance in these scenes suggests more than his character 
says, utilizing body language and lingering 
glances to create a realistic persona of a young man deeply in love. Fonny cares for Tish in a way that is passionate to be sure, but more than 
that, he remains appreciative of who she is as a 
person. Fonny respects Tish, and even though he struggles with the fact that he can’t be there for her in the way that a boyfriend typically can, their interactions continually reveal that no glass or bars could ever truly separate them. 
All of these characters are further realized 
through the personal style of the cinematography. Whenever Fonny and Tish look at each other, the camera takes turns focusing on each of their faces. By utilizing this first-person perspective, 
viewers are able to see through Tish’s eyes when 
Fonny looks at her and then switch point-of-view to see Tish through Fonny’s gaze. Additionally, due to the camera’s placement, viewers repeatedly feel as if they are watching the plot unfold not as 
an omniscient observer, but rather as an onlooker 
present in the room. The events that transpire in each scene happen in real time as well, leading to the film to be slow in some moments while 
still maintaining a realistic feeling. This style 
is lended further emotion by the film’s tender orchestral soundtrack. Most of the characters’ developments take place during moments of silence, and to heighten the impact of these 
moments, a predominantly string orchestra 
slowly and passionately plays. Throughout the film, their music swells and softens as needed for the plot’s current moment. This music allows the 
viewer to simply feel the moment before moving 
on to the next plot point.
Overall, “If Beale Street Could Talk” remains 
a worthwhile and important story regardless of how much time has passed between its original 
publication and the film. It sheds light on the 
struggles of many young black people during the time of the civil rights movement and remains sadly relevant for many more individuals today. 
This film highlights how discrimination can and 
often does subvert justice, and reveals that these events disrupt not only the lives of its victims, but those who care about them as well. Y et this film also offers messages of hope and support, sharing how even through the most difficult of times, love 
will persist.
—Daisy Scott
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
IF  BEALE  STREET  COULD  T ALK
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Barry Jenkins  
Starring  KiKi Layne, Stephan James, Regina King, Teyonah Parris, Colman Domingo
Release Date  December 25, 2018
Rated  RCA
Zack Villere   
From Covington, Louisiana, Zack Villere brings forward a 
unique style of music that takes a few listens to really sink in. His 
song “Cool, ” released in 2017, first put him on the radar of many 
fans, and its music video amassed over 2.5 million views. For those looking to get to know the artist himself, the “Cool” music video is the best place to begin, as it exemplifies Villere’s carefree 
and genuine music. Villere has been involved in the same low-fi 
bedroom pop scene for the past few years with artists such as Cuco x Clairo, but he manages to stand out from the pack. His recent single “Super” shows his artistry, combining experimental beats with train-of-thought lyricism sure to put a smile on listeners’ faces. It is expected that Villere will put out a full-length album in 
2019. This could be a promising year for Villere as his extremely 
personable nature and catchy melodies lead the way.
Beabadoobee  
Hailing from London and only 18 years old, the guitar playing, 
soft-voiced lo-fi singer is bound to take the world by storm in 2019. Her recent EP titled “Patched Up” delivers track after track of beautiful chords and sweet vocals that will make any listener 
a fan. Her music is similar to that of Clairo and others emerging 
from the lo-fi bedroom pop space, only with softer production and an overall vintage feel. Her recent video for her song “Dance With Me” sits at about 150,000 plays on Y ouTube. The grainy footage tells a heartfelt story of being carefree with a loved one. Bea’s vocals 
complement the ever so soft guitar chords and will most definitely 
gain traction in the new year. The songwriting screams youthful emotion, and it is nice to hear such innocence. Whether it is talking about a classroom crush or coffee, Bea’s music will surely capture a greater audience. 
Thutmose  
Thutmose is an upcoming rapper born in Nigeria; however, 
his childhood roots and story are based in the Brooklyn area. He 
dropped a project in 2018 titled “Man on Fire, ” and it features 
several stand-out tracks that showcase his potential to take the hip-hop world by storm. The album includes several major name features, such as Jay Critch on the track “Rounds” and Desiigner on the track “OkOk. ” Thutmose places himself above the crowd of emerging rappers with his ability to supersede genres, not to 
mention his most important ability to go from traditional rapping 
to more melody-based tunes, many which are reminiscent of the rhythm and blues artist 6lack. Thutmose’s song “Ride With Me” best represents this, as he composes a track entirely based on a style 
emphasizing his vocals rather than his rapping, which is important 
in the evolving hip-hop industry. With the direction hip-hop is moving, led by artists such as Juice WRLD, Trippie Redd, and others who may be regarded as singing-rappers, it seems like this 
trend is here to stay. Thutmose’s versatility and solid performance 
on his recent album make him a likely candidate to take over the genre in 2019. 
Surfaces  
Surfaces is an emerging Texas-based band  best known for 
making feel-good music that listeners can’t help but sing along to. The group is categorized as R&B and commonly makes use of various piano melodies and heavy amounts of brass instruments. What places Surfaces on a higher level is the carefree nature of each 
song and the vocal performance of its frontman, Forrest Frank. 
The group recently released a 2019 album titled “Where the Light Is, ” and it is a must-listen album from top to bottom. Each song promotes the feel-good vibes of a sunset drive down the coast. 
There is definitely a place for Surfaces in the modern-day releases 
of popular music. The group is best described as refreshing due to its style and consistency on each track. On tracks such as “Shine on Top” and “This View, ” the group solely looks to present a positive outlook on each day. All the positive messages are written over plucky, beautiful chords, and warm drums. The hooks are catchy, 
and the harmonies are soothing to the ear. The year 2019 could be 
a big one for the group as it continues to spread positive energy to the music world. 
The music world is in for various surprises from artists all over. 
This short list only includes a few of those who may take over 2019, and now all that is left to do is enjoy the music that is to come! All of these artists can be found on any major streaming platform, 
and their eye-capturing visuals can be seen on YouTube. This year 
is most definitely a promising one for many artists, and it will be exciting to see just what new music is introduced.
—Matthew  Rudas
Staff WriterArtists to Look Out for in 2019
With 2019 here, many artists are hoping to leave their mark on the music world. Here is who to keep an eye out for this year, so you can tell your friends, “I heard it first!”A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
“Bandersnatch” brings us a step closer to a long sought-a fter interactive experience, but fails to deliver much else.
It’s either a sci-fi premise or just a video 
game. The idea of interacting personally 
with media has always been appealing, 
and it has historically ranged from the classic 
Choose Y our Own Adventure books, choosing 
dialogue options on the latest role playing game, 
to screaming at the characters in a horror film. It’s not exactly surprising that “Black Mirror, ” 
always the harbinger of technology’s possibilities, 
and Netflix, the upstart that changed the way we conceive television, was the first to do it. 
“Bandersnatch” emerges as the first of its kind, 
a “Choose Y our Own Adventure” movie with ample nods to both the video games and the 
Choose Y our Own Adventure books that it 
doubtlessly owes as ancestors. “Bandersnatch” has all the hallmarks of a “Black Mirror” story 
— dark, suspenseful, thought-provoking — and 
is certainly born from an intriguing concept, but it also relies far too heavily on its own novelty 
and in many ways fails where “Black Mirror” is 
usually often able to succeed. 
The movie follows Stefan, a neurotic, young video-game designer becoming increasingly obsessed with developing his debut project, an 
adaptation of the Choose Y our Own Adventure 
book “Bandersnatch. ” While aiming for the best possible rating, Stefan also faces skeletons from his 
own past, managing a complicated relationship 
with his father after his mother’s death, battling the intrusive legacy of “Bandersnatch”’s 
murderous author, and trying to understand 
the force that seems to be controlling his every move (hint: that’s you!). The viewer can go down 
a number of paths (some that, according to the 
creator, have yet to be discovered) and depending on their choices — ranging from an innocuous 
choice of cereal to cold-blooded murder — can 
uncover government conspiracies, trip on acid, or earn that coveted five-star review. In most 
cases, viewers seem to want to protect Stefan, 
but difficult choices stemming from past failures make that more and more difficult to achieve. 
And it’s definitely fun. Intriguing and 
gloriously suspenseful, “Bandersnatch” keeps the viewer guessing about what will happen next, and makes good use of its format to keep the viewer genuinely invested in the well-being of a 
certainly morally dubious protagonist. It plays 
quite well with its 1980s urban setting, and its frequent references to text-based RPG games and 
Choose Y our Adventure books keep the plot and 
medium grounded in something familiar with an unsettling twist. It also generally introduces some 
intriguing questions about surveillance from a 
variety of philosophical and political angles.
Simultaneously, however, “Bandersnatch” 
relies far too heavily on the cleverness of its concept. And is it really that clever? “Bandersnatch” may technically be the first of its kind, but the 
only thing that ultimately distinguishes it from 
a world of video games and text adventures is that it features actors instead of drawn art. 
Enamored with the brilliance of its own concept, 
“Bandersnatch” doesn’t apply the same level of thought to its plot that “Black Mirror” typically 
lends to its stories. A simple look into the multiple 
routes open quickly reveals that there was no actual concept in mind for anything beyond the surface of the movie’s plot. Many endings offer contradictory answers to Stefan’s past — one 
route disproving the revelations of another — and 
never answer the larger question about Stefan’s observer.
Visually appealing and haunting in 
tone, “Bandersnatch” has high points and an undeniably interesting concept, but it’s not 
enough to completely make up for its failures. 
Underdeveloped and proceeding with unearned confidence, it feels as if there’s hardly a point in 
going back to see what other choices might be 
had — which, after all, is supposed to be half the fun with this kind of media. It’s certainly worth 
an initial playthrough, but after making your 
final decision, your next choice will probably be to watch something else.
—Chloe  Esser
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
BANDERSNATCH
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   David Slade 
Starring  Fionn Whitehead, WIll Poulter, Asim Chaudhry, Craig Parkinson, Alice Lowe
Release Date  December 28, 2018
Rated  TV-MACC+10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  1 4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
By the time I started college, I debated whether or not to keep my social media accounts since I was hardly active. However, I 
soon discovered that social media can actually be a rather important resource for university students. Outside of maintaining 
one’s online presence, social media is a great way for college students to form a sense of community, receive campus news, learn 
about fantastic career opportunities, and network with fellow peers and potential employers. 
With over 30,000 undergraduate students, UC San Diego’s enormous campus can make it difficult for people to meet and build 
meaningful relationships. Social media can help facilitate these interactions. Dozens of UCSD-related groups exist on Facebook, including the popular “UCSD Memes for Sleep Deprived Teens, ” “UCSD Confessions Addicts, ” and “Overheard at UCSD. ” These 
platforms create a sense of kinship and camaraderie among their members, striving to unite a vast and seemingly discrete student 
population. We can all laugh and cry together about finals, raccoons, and the school’s permanent parking plight in an easily accessible 
shared space. It helps us remember that we are all surviving (or sinking) in the same boat. Students can also connect with the school via its Snapchat. These platforms help loop me in on current campus events and trends in a way that complements school-issued email 
updates.
At the same time, subgroups such as UCSD organizations, colleges, majors, classes, and even dormitory buildings have their own 
social media platforms as well, digitally cultivating smaller communities within the university. As a communication major, I follow 
the UCSD Undergraduate Communication Society’s Facebook page to learn about various activities and opportunities related to my 
major. It was actually through this page where I learned about the UCSD Guardian’s recruitment opportunities. I also learned about 
a networking event with business professionals from various communication-related fields. That experience served as a wake-up call, 
and I became much more serious about pursuing my professional future. Back when I lived on campus, my dorm’s Facebook group 
would keep me updated on both building and campus-related activities, as well as open up communication with the Resident Assistants. 
Aside from these fun social groups, other pages serve as useful tools for navigating university life. For example, students are 
constantly selling or buying anything from textbooks to Hydro Flasks on the “UCSD Free and For Sale” page. The “Housing – UCFinder” page is incredibly useful for students seeking off-campus housing or roommates. I found my current housemates through 
this platform. For those who are reluctant to cough up hundreds of dollars on textbooks, the “UCSD Textbook PDF Sharing” page offers 
cost-free alternatives. Another helpful page is “Jobs & Internships, ” an open Facebook group within UCSD where students share job 
and internship opportunities with one another. Many lab position openings are especially advertised on this platform. Access to all of 
these pages obviously require a Facebook account, which is why I wound up keeping mine.
Along with enhancing the college experience, social media can also help foster professional success. It’s becoming increasingly 
important to cultivate one’s digital presence in terms of networking and forging career paths. After all, how will potential employers learn about who you are beyond your resume and cover letter? Granted, job interviews function to satisfy that curiosity, but securing 
those is a challenge in and of itself. Developing your personal brand through online networking and social media can help you cross that 
chasm. For example, I resisted making a LinkedIn account for the longest time, believing that it wasn’t necessary. However, I eventually 
learned that even just having an account, as inactive and bare as your profile may be, boosts your professional image and chances of 
employment that much more. Just as businesses who want to stay current establish an online presence, so must we as college students 
preparing to plunge into the workforce because we, too, are ultimately “products” on the market, with our potential employers as our 
customers. 
Social media offers a plethora of benefits ranging from alleviating loneliness to unearthing various opportunities. I’m glad that I kept 
my social media, even if I am not always heavily engaged. Even if you only participate by quietly observing, social media can definitely enrich your college experience. The Benefits of Social Media for College Students
by Hakyung Yun // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Hakyung Yun  HKY003@ucsd.eduLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Whether you’re planning on seducing your significant other or watching Jeff 
Goldblum in Jurassic Park reruns like I do, mood lighting is a way to set the 
tone for a romantic evening. Even if romance isn’t on the agenda, the right 
lighting can help unwind from a stressful day of school or work. There are many products to help create mood lighting that will fit the atmosphere you’re 
going for.  
Salt Lamp
Whether or not you believe that salt lamps purify negative energy in the air, 
there is no denying that the gentle pink light they provide can set the tone for 
a relaxing night in. Many salt lamps have a dial that allows you to adjust how 
bright you want the light to be depending on personal preference. I would recommend the lowest setting for quiet reading or when you’ve had a tough day and bright lighting when doing homework or other activities that require 
extra light. The salt lamp is also a great if you want to give overhead lighting 
a break. HomeGoods and Ross Dress for Less stores often sell salt lamps for a cheaper price, but Amazon offers a greater variety. 
Fairy lights
Fairy lights provide light for a smaller section of your room. They emit a gentle light, and I would recommend them for anyone who scrolls through their phone before bed or needs a bit of lighting to navigate through their room during the night. Because fairy lights are meant for decorative purposes, 
there are different styles, colors, and shapes to choose from. Target is a really 
great place to find unique shapes that fit any room aesthetic. There are also fairy lights in stores like HomeGoods that include clips to hang all of your favorite pictures, which can give any dorm room or apartment bedroom a homey feel.
Traditional string lights
Now is your chance to scour the sale section of your local decorative store and check out all the discarded Christmas lights. Using traditional string lights as 
a decoration can be a step up if you like the look of fairy lights but want an 
even brighter and stronger light. Traditional string lights can also serve as a cheaper alternative to other decorative lights, especially if they are purchased on sale after the holiday season. No one will ever know they were meant to be 
for a Christmas tree or outdoor shrub.
Neon sign
Have you ever seen those picturesque neon signs on Instagram? These 
signs can help light up the bedrooms for anyone who is looking for an edgy alternative to mood lighting. If you prefer not to spend money on a neon sign online or in stores, there are many YouTube tutorials that illustrate how to make one on your own. Making your own neon sign gives you the liberty to 
select whichever word you would like in whatever language you choose. The 
possibilities are endless.
Night light projector
There are many night light projectors available on Amazon that can help you feel like you’ve purchased a socially acceptable adult night light. Instead of just one small and boring night light, night light projectors available online come in all different shapes and sizes, including some that project stars and planets in space or mimic bright blue ocean waves.
Philips light bulbs
These light bulbs connect with your smartphone and allow you to choose lighting options from a variety of different templates. This is the kind of mood 
lighting sophisticated adults may have, but if you are able to afford this and 
can screw in a light bulb on your own, more power to you.
Although lighting in your room may not feel like the most important room 
decor item, nothing beats a cozy night in with some gentle lights to let your 
eyes rest. More importantly, I hope these mood lighting options inspire you 
to make a few small purchases every now and then for yourself and your enjoyment. We are often boggled down by the desire to do well in school and excel in work that we forget to take time to ourselves. Whether it be buying 
$5 lights or devoting an hour to a good book, remember to look after yourself 
this new year and make time for you. by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Staff WriterMood Lighting12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  1 4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Think campus isn’t aesthetic enough for your Insta game?
You don’t have to use UC San Diego for just your graduation pics; our campus is 
one of the largest in the UC system, meaning that photo opportunities abound. A lot 
of new photographers tend to focus on location when designing their shoots; while a 
cool location definitely can contribute to a great shot, location isn’t everything. I’m 
no photography expert myself, but I find that sometimes the best photos come from interesting framing or unique posing rather than the background. A “common” location 
can even better you as a photographer since it almost forces you to be more creative. 
This list provides some locations on or near UCSD’s campus with a description of 
the vibe or the type of photoshoot that would fit in there. 
Rady School of Management and the School of Medicine campus
Vibe: clean, geometric, angular, professional
Lots of organizations take their team photos at these locations, which would also be 
good for Linkedin profile pictures. 
Humanities and Social Sciences building, Applied Physics & Mathematics building
Vibe: concrete
You can play with levels here, since both HSS and AP&M have multiple floors. 
Little forest behind Geisel Library
Vibe: woodsy, earthy 
Good for nature shoots!Torre y Pines Glider p or t , S cripps C o astal Res er ve
Vibe: Anything! (peaceful, romantic, fierce, worldly) 
These two locations are very versatile. Change up your model’s clothing or bring 
props to create the vibe that you want. 
Salk Institute for Biological Studies  
Vibe: industrial, futuristic, dystopian
The travertine courtyard is an sight to behold. Head here to take your own iconic 
photo, and play with space and light in this huge space. 
Institute of the Americas
Vibe: Anything!
This hidden on-campus gem features a huge courtyard and tall pillars. Go here for a 
good old OOTD post or dress up for more of a formal shoot. 
Warren Mall, UCSD Jacobs School of Engine ering, G eisel L ibrar y
Vibe: reflective, night shoots 
Warren Mall offers a range of different backgrounds, such as the Stuart Art Collection 
piece Vices and Virtues, the reflective windows of the School of Engineering, and a 
spaceship-looking Geisel. 
Graffiti Art Park next to the Old Student Center  
Vibe: grungy
Contribute to the park yourself or go to take pictures around some amazing artwork. The Insta-Guide to UCSD's Campus
by Hakyung Yun // Lifestyle Staff Writer
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ARIEL QUARTETTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 14 - DEC 20
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 18 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org7:15pm
JON PADEN: DADUM - VAF 306 
PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL 
ARTS FACILITY
Gearing for grauduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a 
GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego 
Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today! Contact: precollege@ucsd.edu
4pm
BASEMENT STARTUP WINTER 
RECRUITMENT FAIR – MANDEVILLE B202, THE BASEMENT
Interested in working at a startup? Curious 
about The Basement? Come to The Basements 
Startup Recruitment Fair on Thursday, January 
17 (Week 2 of Winter Quarter)! Connect with Basement startups currently recruiting motivated students to join their teams! This will be a great opportunitiy for you to: **Develop personla skills and interest **Build your resume and portfolio with unique experiences outside of the classroom **Apply skills and theories learnied in the classroom into real-life situations **Contribute to the growth of groundbreaking projects while being a student **Potentially seure a fulfilling and fast-paced job with a startup company Contact: ucsdbasement@ucsd.edu
5pm
HOW HISTORIANS INTERPRET 
GENDER IN THE HOLOCAUST WITH MARION KAPLAN – GIESEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Despite the explosive growth of Holocaust 
studies, scholars of Nazi Germany and the Shoah long neglected gender as an analytical category. It wansn’t until 1984 when the essay collection When Biology Became Destiny: Women in Weimar and Nazi Germany raised awareness of womens experiences under fascism. The publication editied by Renate Bridenthal, Atina Grossman and Marion Kaplan explored womens double jeopardy as females and as Jews. In this lecture, Kaplan takes the audience on a historical tour of this research, from the first workshops raising questions to the first publications providing answers. Since then, the gender perspective has provided significant insight into our understanding of Jewish life in Nazi Germany and during the Holocaust. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu 858-534-0533
7:15pm
TEST PREPARATION FOR UC SAN 
DIEGO UNDERGRADUATES: GMAT, GRE, LSAT – RADY SCHOOL OF 
MANAGEMENT
Gearing for grauduate school? Interested in 
sharpening your test-taking skills? Sign up for a GMAT, GRE, or LSAT prep course at UC San Diego Extension! We offer high-quality, low-cost test prep courses year round to accommodate your busy schedule. Register today! Contact: precollege@ucsd.eduTUE1.15
THU1.17MON1.14
6pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCTS ) - WINTER 2019 - VARIOUS 
LOCATIONS
Taught by a FitLife instructor, this free program is 
on first come, first serve basis. All materials 
including yoga mats are provided. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu Language Conversation Tables 
(LCTs), one of I-House's most popular events, is 
back for another quarter with more amazing 
languages. LCTs is a weekly event that creates a 
casual, fun environment that promotes learning, 
practicing and sharing a language by conversing 
with a host. 
LCTs is a FREE event open to EVERYONE!
Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
Website: http://tinyurl.com/LCTsWI19-FB
12pm
THE LAST RESORT – VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY 309 MAIN GALLERY
An exhibition of artwork made in and about the 
desert by 15 MFA students. Reception: January 10, 5-7 p.m. Bailey Davenport Thien Doan John Dombroski Tanner Gilliland-Swetland Cole Goodwin Grace Mae Huddleston Kirstyn Hom Yasmine Kasem Zara Kuredjian Oscar Magallanes Alexandra Neuman Lauryn Smith Maya Vanderschuit Kevin Vincent Zeb ZangContact: nlesley@ucsd.edu 858-822-7755Website: https://visarts.ucsd.edu/news-events/20190109-18_thelastresort.html
7pm
TRITON FEST AND MASA 
PRESENTS: ASIAN NIGHT MARKET 
– LIBRARY WALK
The Triton Fest Winter Series is proud to present 
our annual Asian Night Market Event in collaboration with UCSD MASA – Multi-Asian Student Association! Asian Night Market is a student-run event that aims to share the diversity of Asian culture among UCSD’s entire student body. This event is happening on January 18th on Library Walk from 7-11 PM. Event is free and open to undergraduate and graduate students with ID. Tasty food sold by our student orgs will be available for purchase. Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu 858-246-03703
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS ARIEL 
QUARTET – DEPARTMENT OF 
MUSIC’S CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Distinguished by its virtuosic playing and 
impassioned interpretations, Ariel Quartet has earned its glowing international reputation. Formed in Israel nearly 20 years ago, when its members were middle-school students, the quarter now serves as the Faculty Quartet-in-Residence at the University of Cincinnatis College-Conservatory of Music. Considered to include some of Beethovens greatest compositions, this cycle consists of 16 quartets divided into three periods: early, when the composer was strongly influenced by Haydn and Mozart; middle, including three quartets that honored Russian Count Razumovsky; and late, a reflection of the final years of his life. This is the beginning of a four-year endeavor, with Ariel Quartet perfoming the complete Beethoven cycle, in honor of the composers 250th birthday in 2020. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduFRI1.18
7pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: WINTER 
WONDERLAND – REVELLE PLAZA
Join us for Triton Fest Presents: WINTER 
WONDERLAND! An evening for Tritons to make memories and enjoy a festive night of wintery surprises. Snow, ice skaing, and more! Entry is free with a valid UCSD undergraduate and graduate ID. Like our UCSD Triton Fest page for all the latest updates. #TritonFest. Triton Fest is UC San Diego’s late night, weekend event series held at the beginning of the fall and winter quarters. From delicious free food to cultural perfomances, from making art to experiencing a Winter Wonderland, there’s something for everyone at each Triton Fest event. Contact: bxhuynh@ucsd.edu 858-246-0370SAT1.19
ONLINE
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. DAY OF 
SERVICE - MISSION BAY HIGH 
SCHOOL
In honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy, 
help make a positive impact in our local San Diego community by volunteering to complete some hands-on projects at Mission Bay High School (MBHS) on the morning of Sunday, January 20, 2019. Our UC San Diego community will join with the MBHS community to complete various projects that will include gardening projects, painting projects, campus beautification projects, and various small projects to improve the campus and student life.  Register for this incredible campus tradition today at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/uc-san-diego-martin-luther-king-jr-day-of-service-registration-53557699521 Contact: jhenline@ucsd.eduWebsite: http://mlkday.ucsd.edu/?p=dayofservice
9am
SLEEP CHALLENGE
The Sleep Challenge will take place from 1/20/2019-2/9/2019. Our hope is by the end of this challenge, you will develop a habit of sleeping 7-9 hours each night and will see the benefits of improved memory, academic performance, and your overall well-being. Sign up and participate in the Sleep Challenge to be entered to win prizes! Contact: Maris Fish 858-822-5382 Wesite: https://wellness.ucsd.edu/healthpromotion/health-topics/sleep/Pages/sleep-challenge.aspxSUN10.21WED1.16CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
10am
WINTER CAREER FAIR – PRICE 
CENTER WEST BALLROOM
When it comes to receiving that offer, its all 
about who you know. Meet employers, make new 
connections, and get to know more about the 
skills and expereience leading companies are looking for at UC San Diego Triton Winter Career Fair. The Winter Career Fair is just a few days away. Register on Handshake today and get ready to meet face-to-face with top employers 
looking to hire UC San Diego students, like you! 
REGISTRATION DETAILS: The career fairs are open 
to UC San Diego students and alumni only. In order to gain admittance to the fair, students 
MUST register through Handshake AND bring 
their student ID the day of the fair. Pre check-in 
is not being offered.* Contact: s1steele@ucsd.edu 
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
MOVIES
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Like good bourbon
5. ‘’Casino’’ co-star10. Moon phase
14. Head for the stratosphere
15. Bedeck
16. Greeting from Popeye17. The other white meat18. Mentioned as a reference
19. Divine service
20. Changing planes?
23. Clark’s colleague24. ‘’All for one and one for all, ’’ e.g.25. Precisely correct
28. Gyro need
30. Part of a one-two
33. ‘’Cope Book’’ name34. Ship stabilizer36. Type of oil
38. Carnival cooler?
41. Grant player
42. Command uttered in many a 
Western
43. Betelgeuse, e.g.44. Driver’s helper45. ‘’You never had ___ good!’’47. 1998 Masters winner Mark49. Physicians org.50. Roof with removable panels51. Test diet?58. First name in country music59. Aphorism60. Ceremonial gown for Claudius62. Tedious task63. Swiftly, to Shakespeare64. Teen’s catchphrase65. Clothing consumer66. Dubbed67. Kind of hookDOWN
 1. Naja haje2. Error3. Sandwich man?
4. ‘60s TV medical drama
5. Game resembling pinball
6. Reviews and corrects7. They often fail to pass the bar8. Coxswain’s men
9. Do a grand jury’s job
10. It may be tickled
11. Expression of apprehension12. Word with star or ranger13. Caustic substances
21. Schmaltz
22. Bingham of ‘’Baywatch’’
25. Make lean, in a way26. Totally eliminate27. Nitrogen compound
28. San ___ Channel
29. Pelvic bones
30. Coup group31. ‘’Be ___ and . . . ’’ (request start)32. Quotable catcher Yogi35. These might be split37. Potpourri piece, perhaps39. Not the best kind of wave40. Cheated on46. IRS personified48. May celebrant49. Embarrass50. An instant51. Beginning at52. Late night host53. Touch on54. Biggest bear, of three55. Final, for one56. Part of a plane57. End-of-the-week letters61. At the sternHOUSING
BLVD63 - Currently listed pricing is for 
August 23rd, 2019 - July 31st, 2020. Limited Availability for 2018-19 - Please contact a Leasing Professional for details and spe -
cials. Discover a relaxed So-Cal vibe apart -
ment with an urban twist-where beach 
style collides with boulevard attitude, all 
in the SDSU area. Does student living get much better than this? ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
7127 Camino Degrazia $2200 - This two-
bedroom and two-bathroom condo unit is located in the Linda Vista neighborhood in San Diego, California. The property is a twenty-one-minute walk from the Sycuan Green Line Santee - 12th & Imperial at the Hazard Center Station stop. The interior boasts full wall-to-wall carpeting for added comfort… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
4366-4374 Mississippi St $2195-$2295. 
Two BRs w Chic, Intelligent Design**OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT/SUN @11AM** - **FIRST MONTH IS RENT-FREE**... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationCARS
2008 Mazda RX-8 Cpe Sport-MILITARY DISCOUNT/E-Z FINANCING $0 DOWN. MILITARY DISCOUNT/E-Z FINANCING $0 DOWN. OVER 250 CUSTOMIZED CARS. LIFTED TRUCKS & & S-U-VS. SE HABLA ESPANOL. HUGE SELECTION. MORE TO CHOOSE FROM. BEST QUALITY VEHICLES IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Honda Accord Sport. Less than 47k 
Miles.. No trip is too far, nor will it be too boring. New In Stock! Barrels of fun! 1 of the best things about this 2015 Honda Accord Sport is something you can’t see, but you’ll be thankful for it every time you pull up to the pump.. * Safety equipment includes: ANTI LOCKING BRAKES, Traction control… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2013 Volkswagen Jetta Sedan Sedan 4dr 
Auto S - This impressive example of a 2013 Volkswagen Jetta Sedan Base is provided by Rancho Chrysler Dodge Jeep RAM.Why gamble on purchasing a previously owned car when you can get a CARFAX Buyback Guarantee free of cost from Rancho Chrysler Dodge Jeep RAM.  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
Motobecane Mirage 54cm Road Bike. Fantastic condition, always garaged and never crashed. $315 obo; FEATURES: NEW Semi-Compact Frame, NEW Shimano STI Drivetrain, ALUMINUM BRAKE CALIPERS, SHIMANO FRONT + REAR DERAILLEUR, ALUMINUM CRANKSET... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
MONGOOSE “RAID” FREESTYLE BMX BIKE 
w/MAGS almost NEW - $200 (Clairemont) - MONGOOSE “RAID” BMX FREESTYLE Bike almost NEW, This is a bike that any BMX RIDER would Enjoy ! This Bike is BAD TO THE BONE ! it comes equipped with Pro Style Frame, four X TRICK Steel FOOT PEGS… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Nirve 20” bmx bike/ super clean/ tuned 
excellentUp for sale is a rebuilt and very clean 20” Nirve bmx bike.The bicycle has been completely rebuilt with fresh Maxima grease,with some upgraded parts.Such as the new Wellgo chrome pedals, new brake cable, new grips, chain tension-er, new chain, etc. This bike is best suited as a start up bike, for a rider that is between 4’ and 5’ tall…  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
As the Winter Quarter gets 
underway, the UC San Diego 
swimming and diving team took to 
the road over the weekend of Friday, Jan. 11, losing against Division I 
powerhouse UCLA and Mountain 
Pacific Sports Federation rival UC 
Santa Barbara on Jan. 11 at UCLA. 
They also lost against another MPSF 
rival in California Polytechnic State 
University San Luis Obispo on Jan. 
12 at Anderson Aquatics Center. 
In its dual meet against the Cal 
Poly San Luis Obispo Mustangs, the women’s team nearly came out with 
the win, ultimately losing late in the meet 155–145, with freshman Tina Reuter leading the way by winning the 200-yard freestyle, 200-yard 
backstroke, and 200-yard individual 
medley. The Tritons had four first-
place finishers, with senior Emily 
Lambert winning the 100-yard butter fly, sophomore Lindsay Clark 
winning the 200-yard butter fly, 
freshman Brittney Miles winning the 400-yard medley, and, freshman Ellie Whitney winning the 500-yard 
freestyle to round out the swim 
category. For the UCSD women’s diving team, senior Brooke Abrantes 
won the three-meter diving event. 
On the men’s side, the Tritons fell 
to the Mustangs 181–119, though they had a few individual event 
winners. Senior Garrett Tse won the 200-yard individual medley, sophomore Tyler James won the 100-yard backstroke, freshman 
Spencer Daily won the 50-yard 
freestyle, redshirt freshman Graham Hauss won the 100-yard freestyle, 
and freshman Ivan Kurakin won the 
200-yard backstroke. 
Both the men’s and women’s 
teams struggled to match up in their competitions against the UCLA Bruins and the UCSB Gauchos, 
with both teams losing to their 
competitors. The men fell to the 
Gauchos 96–163, moving to 4–1 
on the season, while the women 
lost 78.5–182.5 to the Gauchos and 95.5–160.5 to the Bruins. 
Despite these losses, the UCLA 
meet was anything but a failure for the Tritons. On the day, the Tritons had at least one top-four finish in 
18 of the 28 total events and saw 
three individual swimmers finish 
first in their respective events. 
The men’s team saw James win the 
100-yard backstroke with a time of 50.83 seconds and Kurakin win the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 
1:50.43. Kurakin also finished third 
in the 100-yard backstroke with 
a time of 51.61 seconds. For the 
women, Reuter coasted to victory 
in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 2:03.67, beating the 
second-place finisher by nearly 4 
seconds. 
On Jan. 5, the Tritons hosted 
a large group of opponents, 
winning every single match against California State University, East Bay; California State University, Bakers field; and Loyola Marymount 
University. 
As the season goes on, 
the teams will look to build 
momentum heading into the MPSF 
Championship Meet beginning on Feb. 20, where they will have 
a chance at revenge through 
rematches against both the Gauchos and Mustangs. Before the MPSF 
meet, the Tritons go on the road 
to take on UCLA once again at the UCLA Diving Invitational, which 
will run from Jan.18 to Jan. 20, with 
the University of Hawaii and Cal Poly San Luis Obispo competing as 
well.
Swim  &  DiveUCSD Swim 
and Dive loses twice on 
weekend road 
trip
The Tritons failed to win against 
UCLA and MPSF-rivals UC 
Santa Barbara and Cal Poly San 
Luis Obispo.PHOTO COURTESY OF DERRICK TUSCAN
BY jack dorfman
senior staff writer
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at UCLA
at Lewis Universityvs CSU San Marcosvs CSU San Marcos=UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSwim & Dive
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball10:30AM
5PM
7:30PM7:30PM1/181/181/191/19
TURLOCK, Calif. — On 
Saturday night, the No. 6 UC San 
Diego women’s basketball team 
came up victorious once again on the road against its California Collegiate 
Athletic Association opponent, 
California State University, Stanislaus, 78–65. The team’s 14–0 
start to the season makes for the program’s best start since the 2011-12 season. 
The Tritons jumped out to a 
strong start, leading by double digits after the first quarter (23–11), and 
headed into hal ftime up 40–26. In 
the first 20 minutes, the blue and 
gold shot 38.7 percent from the field 
and 41.2 percent from the 3-point range as a team. 
Senior guard Joleen Yang scored 
a 21-point lead for the team with 4 buckets from beyond the arc. Yang  w as  a ls o  7 – 9  f rom  t he  f re e -throw line. Junior forward Mikayla 
Williams followed closely behind 
with 19 points on top of 12 rebounds for her 8th double-double of the 
season. 
Junior forward Haleigh Hat field 
was a monster on the boards as she collected a team-high 14 rebounds, 
9 of which were on the o ffensive 
glass. Hat field contributed 9 points 
and 3 assists in her 28 minutes of play. Junior guard Stephanie Moore and freshman guard Brianna Claros 
tallied 9 points apiece as well. 
A slow, 12-point third quarter 
for the Tritons established hope for the Warriors as they trailed only by 
6 points with 10 minutes remaining. However, UCSD fought back, 
performing a 26-point conclusion to 
wrap up another triumph. 
Both Moore and Claros 
capitalized in key moments of the game, shi fting the momentum in pressured situations as the clock began to wind down. A 3-pointer 
from each and a layup from Claros 
around the 8-minute marker eliminated the stress moving 
forward as the Tritons’ lead returned 
to double figures.
Overall, UCSD held advantages 
in assists (16–12), rebounds (45–31), second-chance opportunities (17–11), and points o ff the bench 
(18–13). With numbers like that, the Tritons refused to leave with anything other than a W . 
UCSD will look to remain 
perfect heading into next weekend in its matchup against California 
State University, San Marcos (10–4, 
7–3). The Tritons return home to 
RIMAC Arena on Jan. 19, with the 
game starting at 5:30 p.m. UC San Diego 
Women’s Basketball beats Stanislaus State on the road
The Tritons staved off their CCAA rivals on 
the road to stay undefeated on the season.
BY Madeline lewis
senior staff writer
Madeline lewis  mblewis@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY O F  UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
woMen's basketball
JOIN  THE  PREMIER CAMPUS  NEWSPAPER!
COME  T0  0UR  RECRUITMENT  EVENT:
TUESDA Y 1/22 @ 5 P.M.  GUARDIAN  OFFICE
(SECOND FLOOR OF THE OLD STUDENT CENTER)  