Janet Napolitano and the UC Office of the 
President (UCOP) have failed to sufficiently implement transparency reforms, which include 
the implementation of documenting the use and reallocation of funds, nearly a year after the April 2018 deadline to do so had been set, according to a report by state auditor Elaine Howle released last 
Tuesday.
Howle set the deadline after releasing the 2017 
audit finding that Janet Napolitano’s office had set 
aside $175 million in reserves without notifying the UC Board of Regents. That amount included $32 
million from campus-paid fees that otherwise could 
have been allocated towards students. These funds were put on reserve by Napolitano despite the UC Regents having considered votes to increase tuition 
on numerous occasions, the latest a potential $342 
increase in May 2018.
Howle went on to write in Tuesday’s report that 
the implementation of a nontransparent reserve fund opens the door for the UCOP to “retain and 
maintain virtually an unlimited amount of fund 
balances and reserves. ”
Napolitano defended her administration’s 
reserve fund in a letter to Howle released following 
the initial audit, stating that “UCOP’s budget and 
financial approaches reflect strategic, deliberate, and transparent spending and investment in UC and State priorities. ” 
She later went on to break down the $175 
million, explaining how $83 million are restricted funds going to UC programs and initiatives, $87 million are unrestricted funds, and $5 million are unrelated to the UCOP fund balance.
Despite her defense of the reserve fund, 
Napolitano agreed to implement some of Howle’s recommendations in regards to the way funds were dealt with, including publishing fund restrictions, commitments, and funds eligible for reallocation, and to develop a policy in regards to the reserve fund. These changes were set to be met gradually 
every April from 2018 through 2020.
As of February 2019, the implementation of 
these changes has been slower than Howle would 
have liked. While the deadline for the initial changes 
had been set for April 2018, Howle has no authority 
to implement any repercussions on the UCOP besides further audits that work against the UC system’s public image.
The discretion of these funds, or lack thereof, 
has contributed to the UC system failing to further its mission of being a university for California students. An article from the San Diego Union-Tribune published only 5 days after Howle’s latest 
report discussed how, for the 2019-2020 academic 
year, UC San Diego is for the first time projected to get more money from out-of-state students than from Californians.
The practice of targeting out of state and 
international students to offset the reappropriation of funds by the UC Board of Regents and the UCOP has also been criticized by Howle. 
In the March 2016 audit, Howle stated that “the 
university’s decision to increase the enrollment of nonresidents has made it more difficult for California residents to gain admission to the university. In 2011, the university relaxed [it’s] admission standard to state that nonresidents need 
only to ‘compare favorably’ to residents … [resulting 
in] the university [admitting] nearly 16,000 nonresidents whose scores fell below the median scores for admitted residents at the same campus on 
every academic test score and grade point average 
evaluated. ”
This latest clash between Howle and both the 
UCOP in regards to transparency is nothing new. 
UC San Diego’s first-ever 
multi-stall, gender-inclusive restroom will be installed as part 
of University Centers’  latest space-
improvement project, joining the many gender-inclusive, single-occupancy bathrooms throughout 
campus. Following a unanimous 
UC Advisory Board vote in Spring Quarter 2018, the restrooms, along with the new adjacent restaurant, 
Dirty Birds, will be a supplement to 
the University Centers’ overarching project to develop a new dining and entertainment area at Price Center. 
UCEN felt like it was time to 
have a gender-inclusive restroom on campus to accommodate for the diverse student population at UCSD, Director Sharon Van Bruggen told 
the UCSD Guardian.
“[UCEN] seeks to provide an 
inclusive environment, and adding a multistall, gender-inclusive restroom is one way we can do 
that, ” Van Bruggen said. “Students have asked for multi-stall, gender-inclusive restrooms in the past. ”
Given that the restaurant 
premises and the area around them will be remodeled regardless as part of the space-improvement project, UCEN says it found it opportune 
to introduce the gender-inclusive VOLUME 52, ISSUE 16  TUESDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 19, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Activists Stage 
Teach-In to Show Appreciation for Workers 
Valentine’s Day’s action aimed to 
raise awareness of ongoing disputes
CAMPUS
BY Madeline Leon
Staff Writer
First Multi-Stall Gender-Neutral Restroom to be Built in Price Center
Chancellor Khosla cuts the ribbon at the Gilman Bridge opening ceremony // Photo by Hope Ho ffman-LarsonSeveral University of California 
labor groups gathered in Price 
Center on Feb. 14 at 11 a.m. for a 
Valentine’s Day “Teach-In” to spread 
awareness about UC labor issues. The teach-in was organized by the UC San Diego Labor Commission 
and the organization United States 
Against Sweatshops. At the teach-in were several other labor groups, such as University Professional and Technical Employees, UC-American 
Federation of Teachers, The 
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, and the newly formed UCSD 
Solidarity Coalition, which aims 
to support other organizations and populations from mistreatment by the University of California.
The teach-in was part of the Labor 
Commission’s Workers Appreciation Week, which consisted of tabling and making appreciation-grams for UC workers. 
The Valentine’s Day holiday was 
used as an opportunity to speak about numerous issues UC laborers face, including health care, labor 
contracts, the UC-AFT wage gap, and 
issues regarding academic freedom. 
“The labor of our campus workers 
goes constantly unrecognized by 
many on our campus, so we wanted 
to use Valentine’s Day as a way to uplift their work and their love by showing some for them, ” Prajay 
Lolabattu, a UC Labor Commission 
member and AFSCME student representative, said. 
AFSCME members have been 
bargaining for a fair contract with 
the UC Office of the President for 
two years and are currently working without one. 
“Despite two strikes and two 
years out of contract, there has been no action from the UC [office] to make an offer that respects their dignity and adequately supports their livelihoods and those of their 
families, ” Lolabattu added.
UCSD Digital Initiative Librarian 
and UC-AFT Unit 17 member 
Cristela Garcia-Spitz spoke at the teach-in about the contract 
bargaining sessions between UCOP 
and UC-AFT, as well as the wage gap between UC librarians and their counterparts at other universities. 
“In addition to dealing with a 
significant wage gap, we are also fighting for copyright ownership and academic freedom, or the right to exchange ideas especially in teaching 
and research without the risk of 
job loss or interference, ” Garcia-Spitz told the UCSD Guardian. “UC librarians are recognized as 
academics; however, we are not 
afforded the same protections under By jacob sutherland  Contributing WriterUC SYSTEM
State Auditor Claims UC System Not Transparent EnoughPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
“The commodi fication 
of self-care proposes a 
quick and easy fix to 
these problems even 
though they aren’t 
easily fixable. ”
STUDENT  REGENT
THE  OFFICE  OSCARSEXCLUDING  TRANSFERS
THE  CAST'S  BEST  MOVIES Opinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“Although career fairs 
provide an opportunity 
for students to survey 
different industries and 
ask questions about 
professional life, much 
of the information 
shared can be found on 
the company’s website 
or third-party sites.”TUESDAY
 H 60 L 46
THURSDAY
H 56 L 46
WEDNESDAY
H 59 L 52
FRIDAY
H 59 L 46
CAREER FAIRS.................4
FOOD TO BUS TO............8
UCSD FAVORITES............9
SEAN KINGSTON............12
W. BASKETBALL.............16CAMPUS
Rajee Ganeesan
PAGE 4Some single-use restrooms already exist across campus, although they aren’t necessarily “gender-neutral”
BY  andrew ha
Contributing Wrter 
See NAPOLITANO,  page 3SELF-CARE, 
COMMODIFIED
Features, page 6
See LABOR,  page 3 See GENDER-NEUTRAL,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS 3 By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Lame pussy and trash head.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Thursday, February 7
4:12 a.m. Suspicious PersonSubject entering building through window at Tenaya HallReferred to Student Conduct
2:10 p.m. Extortion
Unknown male suspect claiming to be from IRS defrauded victim at Marshall Apartments West out of large sum of money Report Taken4:23 p.m. Armed and SuspiciousReport of male who possibly walked into Thornton Pavilion with handgun; 
upon contact subject found to be in 
possession of pistol shaped lighter Field Interview
Friday, February 8
9:24 a.m. Hazard SituationReport of hand grenade found inside tunnel at Central Plant, upon investigation found to be replica only 
Checks OK
12:43 p.m. Exhibit Harmful Material 
to a MinorY oung adult male sending inappropriate photos to juvenile at Preuss School via social media app Report Taken2:51 p.m. Suspicious PersonTransient male seen trying to enter 
the female’s bathroom at Main Gym
Stay Away Order Issued4:13 p.m. Animal CallDog roaming loose and no owner around Library WalkUnable to Locate9:16 p.m. Hazard Situation3 subjects throwing frisbees and hitting vehicles at Mandeville Center
Unable to Locate
Saturday, February 9
12:40 a.m. Medical AidY oung adult male at Douglas Hall having trouble breathing and experiencing short term memory loss, after ingesting several pills Transported to Hospital
2:21 a.m. Non-Injury Collision
At Goody’s Place, UC Vehicle vs. 
ObjectReport Taken2:30 p.m. Vehicle BurglaryUnknown suspect(s) entered the victim’s locked vehicle in Athena Parking Structure by unknown means, Loss $110 Report Taken 
Sunday, February 10
10:56 a.m. Disturbance 
Report of young adult male who possibly broke sliding door at Price Center out of anger, no damage found and subject gone on arrival Unable To Locate1:14 p.m. Attempted Suicide
At Middle East Hall
Transported to Hospital
10:03 p.m. Alcohol ContactTwo subjects with alcohol making residents of Tanaya Hall feel uncomfortable Referred To Student Conduct11:44 p.m. DisturbanceReporting party received several 
complaints from students stating that 
someone inside Angela’s Place keeps turning lights on and off Checks OK
Monday, February 11
7:18 p.m. Disturbance - Domestic ViolenceCouple arguing and crying at Coast 
Apartments
Field Interview7:41 p.m. Disturbance - FightTwo female subjects involved in a physical dispute at Jacobs Medical CenterField Interview
Tuesday, February 12
10:35 a.m. Information Only
Known truant male high school 
student reported to be on campus again at Village West ApartmentsReport Taken1:51 p.m. Psych SubjectFemale in Marshall Apartments East with suicidal ideations Transported To Hospital6:00 p.m. Information Only
Unknown male student at Gilman 
Drive, possibly under the influence, followed female while verbally harassing her and trying to hold her hand Report Taken6:57 p.m. Battery - Domestic ViolenceOn Triton Steps
Closed by Adult Arrest
11:00 p.m. Suspicious PersonAdult male seen walking towards Sun God lawn carrying bike wheel Gone on Arrival
Wednesday, Febr uar y 13
9:57 a.m. Illegal CampingAt Torrey Pines Center North, feces 
and other hazardous material found 
Referred to Other UCSD Department ‐ 
Facilities Management2:18 p.m. Welfare CheckStudent left academic advising office at Humanities and Social Sciences building upset and made a comment she was going to hurt herself Field Interview
6:00 p.m. Vandalism
Downwind W ay/Expedition W ay, unknown suspect(s) keyed the hood and passenger side of the victim’s vehicle and also punctured 3 tires. Damage: $3000 Report Taken6:20 p.m. DisturbanceMale and female yelling, sounds of objects being thrown at Mesa Nueva 
Building C
Unfounded
Thursday, February 14
6:19 a.m. Hazard SituationTree fell on building at Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics, no injuries Report Taken
7:20 a.m. Vandalism
At Central Mesa Apartments, unknown suspect(s) used an unknown object to damage front passenger window of the victim’s vehicle, Damage $300Report Taken9:48 a.m. Hazard SituationFallen tree blocking parking garage at 
Torrey Pines Center South
Referred to Other UCSD Department
7:53 p.m. Excessive Alcohol
Intoxicated male being carried by four 
additional males at Price Center
Transported to Hospital
8:00 p.m. Petty TheftAt Geisel, stolen student ID, loss $1Online Report8:25 p.m. UC Policy Violation
Bus driver smoking at Stephen Birch 
Aquarium and not cooperatingInformation Only9:30 p.m. Discharging Firearm
Via 911, report of people shooting at 
Transit Center off Iris/30thReferred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Police Department
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
TRITON OUTFIT TERS
WINTER // 2019SAN DIEGO, CA
TO.UCSD.EDUThe Initial Feedback for the Bathrooms Was PositiveOther Audits From the State Have Found A Number of  Discrepancies in Transparency Practices Across UC Campuses
Security was Called to End the Event, but They Did not Arrive on Time 
▶ GENDER-NEUTRAL , from page 1▶ NAPOLITANO , from page 1
▶ LABOR , from page 1In June 2018, Howle released an 
audit of the university in regards to it’s handling of sexual harassment 
complaints and allegations. 
The report, which looked at the Berkeley, Davis, and Los Angeles UC campuses, found issues with the way 
that sexual harassment complaints are handled, including how “the 
three campuses often impose inconsistent discipline on faculty 
who were the subject of multiple 
sexual harassment complaints, ” and finding that “the three campuses [do] not consistently follow federal 
guidance intended to protect complainants. ”
These audits by Howle provide 
an opportunity for the UCOP to implement changes that many 
people view as necessary for the quality of education provided. Punit Aswani, a second-year mechanical 
engineering student from Warren, said that the university has a 
responsibility to its students to provide information on where the 
money goes.
“The students of the UC system 
should have a greater understanding 
of where our money goes, ” Aswani 
said. “There should be more transparency within the system 
when dealing with our tuition and fees. ”
restroom. However, gendered 
restrooms will still be available 
to students in the food court and theater lobby. All those involved in managing the construction of the gender-inclusive restroom have 
expressed positivity and see  the 
restroom as a necessary step forward for the inclusion of all genders. 
“Everyone has shown support 
from the start. [UCEN] sought approval from UCAB, ” Van Bruggen said. “It was also discussed with the vice chancellor of student affairs and the campus architect. 
And we reached out to the LGBT 
Resource Center to tell them about the project. ”
Hoping to create an 
accommodating area like that of a neighborhood, UCEN will develop a space where students can have a typically San Diegan experience while remaining on campus. The 
area is being developed with the 
intent for students to relax as they watch sports or dine and drink. 
“ As part of the project, and as 
requested by UCAB, [UCEN] will provide a dining area and outdoor area that encourage students to enjoy a night out, right here on campus, ” Van Bruggen said. “There will be 
multiple screens for sports viewing, 
and the design will celebrate UC San Diego Athletics. ”
Dirty Birds, a local San Diegan 
bar and grill known for serving over 37 flavors of chicken wings, will be replacing the old Round Table Pizza at Price Center as part of the 
project. Although built jointly, the 
gender-inclusive restroom is not part of Dirty Birds’ leased premise; University Centers only contacted 
it to confirm that it agreed to have 
the restroom. The restaurant will first have to submit a plan to be reviewed and approved by UCAB, and it may need to go through 
multiple iterations before a final 
confirmation. 
“UCAB reviewed several 
restaurants to fill this vacancy, ” Van 
Bruggen said. “[It] looked at criteria 
such as concept, menu, value, price point, quality, sustainable practices, experience, success in San Diego, and more. Dirty Birds hit all [its] main 
criteria and [has] a proven track 
record of providing a fun sports-pub environment. The restaurant will have a Type 41 license to sell beer 
and wine. ”
Dirty Birds is expected to open in 
Fall Quarter 2019.the principles of academic freedom as granted to senate faculty, lecturers, 
and students. ”
According to Garcia-Spitz, the 
UC “salary analysis showed [UC librarians] are behind the majority 
of the Comparison-8 campuses 
and more than 25 percent behind the salary scale for California State University librarians.”
The Comparison-8 is a list of four 
public and four private universities that UCOP uses to compare the salaries of librarians and other faculties. 
UPTE serves the interests of UC’s 
front-line workers, which include patient-care tech personnel, janitors, and pharmacists. UPTE Recording 
Secretary Susan Orlofsky called for 
student support in opposing UC Regent George Kieffer’s privatization conflict of interest between his law firm’s client Fidelity and the UC 
Pension Plan. 
“Fidelity is going to make a lot 
of money out of the privatization 
scheme, ” Orlofsky said. “They’re 
giving Wall Street a big chunk of our 
pension money. ”
Orlofsky also spoke of 
the University of California’s privatization of labor in an effort to 
save money on benefits. 
“They’re building a new rehab hospital at UC Davis, but they’re not hiring UC workers. They’re going to 
hire contract employees so that they don’t have to give them benefits, ” Orlofsky said.
During the teach-in, Lolabattu 
and co-organizer Samantha Munoz addressed several demands that were put out from students across California within the last month. 
“To this day, the chancellor and 
administration of UCSD and the UC system as a whole have not done anything to take action to these demands, ” Lolabattu said. 
One of the demands was the call 
for divestment from Immigration and Customs Enforcement and deportation. 
“ As you may know, we have 
an undocumented community on campus. … That’s our tuition money that the UC has gone and invested in [deportation and separating 
families at the border], which is 
directly against the needs of our student community, ” Lolabattu said. “Families are being affected by those 
decisions, and that’s not something 
we had a say in. So we’re demanding that the University of California divests money from those causes. ”
Munoz also addressed the 
student demand for the University of California to divest from violence in Palestine. “Thousands of Palestinians 
have died compared to the very 
few who are part of the Israeli military, and we really want them to install support for the Palestinians, especially the fact that our tuition 
money is going into the violence that 
is happening everyday, ” she said.
Another student issue addressed 
was the University of California’s 
deployment of police to student and 
worker demonstrations. 
“Security was actually called 
yesterday; they just didn’t get there in time, ” Lolabattu said the day after 
the teach-in. 
“What is most important about 
the action that happened yesterday 
was the goal of visibility, ” Munoz 
said. “We want more students to 
be proactive and supportive about fighting against the university’s privatization and understanding the worker’s demands from not 
only UCSD but across all the UC 
campuses. ” 
UC-AFT Librarians and other 
labor unions will be bargaining with 
UCOP over a fairer contract and 
academic freedom on March 4 at noon in front of Geisel Library.
madeline leon  m7leon@ucsd.edujacob sutherland  jasuther@ucsd.edu
andrew ha  a1ha@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Career fairs have always been a staple of professional-development 
opportunities hosted by undergraduate institutions across the United States. 
These events serve as ways to connect undergraduate students with companies within their industries of interest, ranging anywhere from computer science to investment banking. The fairs also provide a valuable chance for students to develop resumes, perfect their elevator pitches, and effectively communicate with professionals. However, the practice has become outdated and inefficient given the concurrent growth in popularity of networking platforms, online application systems and over-enrollment of undergraduate students at UC San Diego.
In today’s advancing technological society, 
it’s no surprise that the majority of industry interactions and job searches occur online. LinkedIn, a popular networking platform among college graduates, boasts over 467 million users, and is utilized by job seekers and recruiters alike. Job postings can be found painlessly either on the company’s website or on secondary sites like Glassdoor, which allow prospective employees to find statistics like average salaries, ratings, and overall reviews of the company before applying. Many companies have adjusted their hiring processes to reflect this technological growth. In 2016, over 84 percent of companies were recruiting online alone, in contrast to just 56 percent in 2011. 
Many recruiting offices have also turned to online applications chock-full 
with screener questions to weed out under-qualified applicants, streamlining the hiring process. Given the accessibility of companies via the internet, standing in line for upward of an hour for a couple minutes of face time with a recruiter quickly becomes unappealing. Although career fairs provide an opportunity for students to survey different industries and ask questions about professional life, much of the information shared can be found on the company’s website or third-party sites. The fairs have become outdated methods of job-searching and must offer a higher payoff in order to appeal to undergraduate students given the current state of employment searches.
UCSD’s undergraduate enrollment reaches over 25,000 students, and 
consequently, involvement in student organizations and events has increased. Career fairs are no different: depending on the organization and companies present, the events are usually packed, with lines ranging from 20 minutes to an hour long. These wait times can add up quickly, especially given the fact that the actual exchange with an industry representative usually only lasts five minutes. Depending on the event attendance by students and companies, an undergraduate could very possibly spend an entire day at the career fair, and even without any payoff. Many recruiters refuse to hire on the spot, and usually point students toward their online application, which could have very easily been found without attending the event. Although the face-to-face interaction could possibly set a student apart from others, after a long day of meeting hundreds of potential employers, it is more likely that he or she just become another name in a pile of resumes the recruiters have at the end of the day.
The sheer turnout of the events only makes finding a job that much harder: 
many times, industries come to career fairs with only a handful of employment opportunities to offer, and with the number of students milling about, recruiters can speak to anywhere from 100 to 300 students. From that point on, it is very 
difficult, unless the student has created his or her own best-selling application or cured cancer, to set oneself apart from a resume standpoint, particularly when a recruiter is paging through them following the event.
In many instances, career fairs serve to 
benefit the university, as they allow connections with industry through the university’s ability to offer companies the next generation of employees and supplement the workforce. For example, UCSD began supplying engineering graduates to Qualcomm nearly three decades ago and from there allowed the company to 
utilize the UCSD Extension program to train workers in their technology. In return, the company’s CEO, Irwin Jacobs, donated nearly $110 million to the campus, and another $30 million in scholarships and grants. Companies at career fairs offer a slim amount of jobs to students but endless opportunities for funding to the university at which they recruit.
Career fairs, although a tedious method of job-searching, do provide a valuable 
opportunity for students to receive feedback on one’s resume and learn more about industry professionals and their expectations — but at what cost? The fairs often lead to no payoff for the average student, who usually just gets pointed in the direction of the online application, and can be a large waste of time. 
In order to make the events more effective and useful for the students, the career 
services office must hold resume development and elevator pitch workshops prior to and geared toward the specific career fair, and even offer pointers and talks on online recruitment and how to navigate networking platforms like LinkedIn or Glassdoor. In order to incentivize these events, it would benefit early arrivals and dedicated individuals to enforce a cap on career fair attendance, preventing recruiters from being overwhelmed by an influx of students and giving those individuals a greater chance of being recognized for their commitment. In today’s tech-focused society, it is imperative that the way we approach employment after graduation changes in order to benefit students and prepare them for professional success.Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
UC Student Regent Position Excludes Transfer Student ParticipationCareer Fairs are Obsolete in the World of  Online Networking 
The UC Board of Regents remains a mysterious group of seemingly “all-
powerful beings” who vote on a number of issues pertaining to both students and faculty, notably including when and how much to raise tuition. While the board is made up of 26 voting members that include former politicians, business executives, and community leaders, only one position is reserved for a current student from any of the University of California campuses, severely inhibiting the input of student views in the outcome of decisions affecting the UC student body and system as a whole.
The UC student regent position is a two-year commitment. The selected 
student spends the first year as a non-voting regent-designate, during which they observe the current voting student regent, as the terms overlap to allow the student body as a whole to always be represented. The second year is spent as a voting member. The main requirement to apply for this opportunity is to be a full-time UC undergrad, graduate, or professional student during the entire two years that the position is held. While this qualification makes sense on a surface level, the nature of it disadvantages a large portion of the UC student population from ever getting the chance to make an impact in the board’s votes: transfer students.
Transfer students account for a sizeable minority of the UC system’s overall 
student population. For Fall Quarter 2018, the UC system offered admission to 28,750 transfer applicants, out of a total 137,000 prospective undergraduate students. At UC San Diego in Fall Quarter 2017, 33.5 percent of all newly enrolled undergrad students were transfer applicants.
While transfer students make up a significant portion of the student body, they 
remain unable to apply for the UC student regent position because of the required two-year time frame. Any prospective regent must apply in the winter prior to the start of the two-year term. Transfer students are typically only enrolled in the UC system for a total of two years. This means that if they wanted to apply, they would be unable to because of the way the two year time frame is set up.
This limitation on who can be the student regent means that many decisions 
By Rajee Ganesan     staff writer
By Jacob sutherland     senior staff Writer“Although career fairs provide an 
opportunity for students to survey 
different industries and ask questions 
about professional life, much of the 
information shared can be found on the 
company’ s website or third-party sites.”
See REGENTS, page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2019
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
By System 32voted on by the board affecting transfer students are never directly 
considered by an actual transfer student. Instead, they are only considered through the capacity of the acting student regent to travel around the UC system, holding open forums where all students can voice their concerns. While this allows the student regent to act as a link between transfer students and the board, only so much of a transfer student’s concerns can be fully articulated because the student regent has to address everyone’s concerns, including their 
own.
Even though at any given time a certain type of student’s interests 
will only at most be indirectly considered by the board because there 
is only one student regent at a time, these groups have historically gotten the direct representation that comes with being a student regent around every five years. Subsequently, transfer students are again at a loss for not having a chance to be directly represented because many issues, such as housing availability, tuition costs, and enrollment caps, affect transfer students differently than they do undergraduate, graduate, and professional students.
If the UC Regents truly want to provide a student regent position 
that allows for student input, they should make changes to the requirements to allow all types of students to be eligible to apply. This includes allowing students to hold the position even if they are enrolled for only a portion of the duration of the two-year period, opening up the opportunity for transfer students to participate as a student during the first year and as a new alumnus or alumna during the second. A student’s perspective on the issues that impact current students is likely not to change much, if at all, right after they graduate, so the quality of insight that a transfer student regent would provide during their second year as a voting regent would remain invaluable.
While the UC Board of Regents has a long way to go to fully 
keep students’ interests in mind, the board as a whole does stand out from others around the country because very few university systems have a similar student-representative position. Broadening the requirements to include transfer students would not only be a step in the right direction for UC student input, but it would also allow the university to set the best possible precedent for this type of student involvement for universities around the country.
Jacob Sutherland   jasuther@ucsd.edu▶ REGENTS , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
for acts of self-sabotage or self-indulgence, such as eating 3 pints of ice 
cream in one sitting. There’s a difference between taking care of yourself and pampering yourself, but because self-care is advertised as a self-indulgence we’re all entitled to, our indulgences have become normalized as genuine catharsis. 
Other times, we buy into the $11 billion wellness industry’s definition 
of self-care, following rituals and cleanses that promise to make us better, partially because if we don’t, we’re depriving ourselves of what we deserve and holding ourselves back from reaching our fullest potential. Self-care is no longer a way to take a temporary breather from a stressful world — it’s a lifestyle, the endgame itself. It’s a trendy choice we think we should make, and so we buy expensive face masks, make green juices, and namaste our way to happiness. 
Yoga, with all of its proven mental and physical benefits, has its place, 
but capitalism has another. The commodification of self-care is problematic because it rests upon the belief that the input of a certain amount of money will guarantee a certain output, one that will hopefully help you snap out of mental illness and suddenly find increased pleasure in being alive. This one-size-fits-all, buy-your-way-to-happiness approach overlooks the context-sensitive intricacies of mental health in favor of a quick and easy fix for something that isn’t easily fixable. 
“I personally bought into it, ” said John Muir College junior Emily Pettitt, 
a double major in physiology and neuroscience and cognitive science–neuroscience with three jobs, as she recalled her initial practice and perception of self-care. “ A $3 face mask?! I must feel better after I do that because that’s what the happy people online and on the product are doing. If I have to be spending money, maybe instead of spending money on junk food, then I should just spend that to better myself. ”
Pettitt says that her personal definition of self-care has since evolved to 
prioritize “maintaining the best state of mind possible. ” For her, this entails mind-mapping her thoughts, practicing mindfulness, meditating, and adhering to a personal schedule. 
She also believes that the practice of self-care looks different for each 
individual because different people have different methods of coping with their unique problems and stressors. Some people may find genuine catharsis in face masks or bubble baths; others may find it through their friends or family, or even in other places like sports or music. Self-care is ultimately not a one-size-fits-all solution — it reflects how you view and affirm yourself, which is far more personal than the self-care marketed to us ever could be. 
In the past five years, online searches for “self-care” have spiked as 
people have become increasingly stressed. Declining mental health is due partially to the sudden rise of the smartphone, the growth of social media and its accompanying pressures, and, of course, the increasingly hostile and uncertain political climate (according to a piece by The Atlantic, the 2016 election led to an increase in anxiety around the country). These factors FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG  & MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.org
When most students think of “self-care, ” 
they envision a pile of fluffy blankets, a Netflix marathon, and too much Vallarta’s. They see 
themselves online shopping, scrolling through 
Instagram, or smelling a scented candle to feel a little better. However, many of these acts, 
while indulgent and momentarily gratifying, 
cannot be categorized as “self-care. ” 
The actual definition of “self-care” has 
changed throughout the centuries, but the contested relationship between the individual 
and the political climate remains at the root 
of many attempts to de-stress. As French philosopher Michel Foucault argues for the Greeks and Romans, “care of the self ” was the introspective practice of working on the mind and soul: focusing inwards instead of outwards. This often entailed temporarily leaving politics behind for the purpose of becoming more self-aware, then eventually returning to the political sphere as a better citizen. 
Centuries later, taking a breather from the 
stress of politics is considered a way to justify and legitimize the practice of self-care. Such individualism is demonstrated in an often-cited quote by the activist and writer Audre Lorde: “Caring for myself is not an act of self-indulgence; it is self-preservation, and that is an act of political warfare. ” The context of Lorde’s quote lies in the heavy intersections of race, womanhood, and activism; her practice of self-care was radical because she was a black woman putting herself first in a world attempting to make her pain invisible. 
However, Lorde’s quote has been 
commercialized to the point of mainstream acceptance. Context typically thrown aside, her words are frequently emblazoned across T-shirts and featured in wellness articles preaching step-by-step guides to improved mental health. It seems that the radical notion behind her self-care has been diluted to encompass something different altogether. 
Today, self-care is a buzzword. Often 
synonymous with the phrase “treat yo self, ” it’s colloquially thrown around as justification  
Self-Care, Commodified
Many mental health issues are rooted in the burnout cycle and the ever-present desire to achieve. Th e 
commodi fication of self-care proposes a quick and easy fix to these problems even though they aren’t 
easily fixable.
SeeSELF CARE , page 7By Lara Sanli       Senior Staff writerFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
▶ SELF CARE , from page 6
together leave America “on the brink of the worst mental-health crisis in 
decades. ”
College students especially face substantial mental health issues. 
Universities across the country are becoming increasingly competitive, and students struggle to balance academics, social life, personal health, and other disciplines on top of the uncertain chaos of navigating young-adulthood. Yet mental health has become less stigmatized than in years past, and people are more willing to seek help and change the conversation around mental health. 
“Older generations are in disbelief about a lot of mental health issues 
because when they were our age, mental illness was pretty hush-hush, ” John Muir College sophomore and computer engineering major Emerson Noble said. “They’re in shock that our generation has all of these problems and that they’re now pretty common knowledge. But this has been around for so long — it’s just been taboo to have problems — problems that can be helped, but people just didn’t know or care about them. ” 
Culturally, there is a declining stigma and more acceptance toward 
people struggling with mental health. At UC San Diego, however, many student mental health issues tend to arise due to the competitive academic environment and reclusive social atmosphere. 
“UCSD is very competitive, ” Noble said. “It’s pretty cancerous. Other 
students are causing students anxiety. When you take the competition out of school, you’ll definitely feel better about yourself and you’ll be in a better mental state to move forward. It’s just kind of difficult at a university this big to feel that you’re doing well. ”
As a result, it is not common for students to overwork themselves to the 
breaking point, but then keep going. The fast-paced nature of the quarter system perpetuates this stress and contributes to the burnout cycle. 
“Burnout, ” according to an in-depth article on the topic by Buzzfeed, 
“means reaching [the point of exhaustion] and pushing yourself to keep going, whether for days or weeks or years. ” It’s a never-ending cycle perpetuated by the desire to optimize yourself and your circumstances — your capital — for maximum efficiency. No relief comes with the completion of a task because there’s always something else to do, another level of achievement to aim toward. Work — overwork in particular — is celebrated; busyness and stress are lauded as measures of success. Time spent relaxing could be time spent studying. Y ou could be getting a day ahead on your homework, or applying for internships. There’s always some better way of being more productive. 
Theoretically, the more capital you invest, whether it be time or energy, 
the greater your return will be. But the crux of college burnout lies in the following paradox: the investment of time, work, and energy supposed to deliver the return of greater socioeconomic security, along with the accompanying happiness it is promised to bring, is actually making us more unhappy. 
Pettitt often struggles with burnout and is managing 
it by examining what she truly prioritizes. “Recently, I have been figuring out what I’m going for, ” she reflected. “It’s important to ask yourself: Are you going toward a goal? An expectation? The problem with pushing yourself so much is that a lot of the time you don’t know why you’re going. ” 
She paused, and then repeated her point: “Just 
find where you’re going, instead of just going toward this imaginary finish line that isn’t there — which is interesting, ’ cause just as in life, there’s no finish line ... except for your gravestone. ”
We work and work, often without even the knowledge 
of what we’re striving toward, even as the burnout cycle threatens to break us. We optimize our capital and then collapse into anxiety, turning to the commodified practice of self-care in hopes that it will magically cancel out the damage of the overwork we impose upon ourselves. Pettitt is right: If we don’t make the choice to stop for a moment and breathe, we’ll optimize our way through life without even living it. 
The whole predicament is not unlike the Mac Miller 
song “Self Care. ” Miller, who died of an accidental drug overdose last year, frequently rapped about his personal struggles with mental health. In “Self Care, ” as he meditates on life and mortality, he raps that, for himself, “self-care” is “treatin’ me right. ” The music video features him lying in his own coffin, carving into the lid, struggling for a way out. His carving reads “memento mori”: Latin for “remember that you must die. ” 
Students seeking services for mental health can 
contact Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) by calling (858) 534-3755. Their website also provides resources for self-help and other needs.ART BY JESSICA NI
“Universities across the country are becoming increasingly competitive, and students struggle to balance academics, social life, personal health... ”
Lara Sanli    lSanli@ucsd.eduLIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Calling all carless students! I’ve lived without a car in San Diego for almost three 
years now, and I know the struggle of wanting off-campus food but not having any way to get there. Maybe you’ve contacted friends that have cars and they’re 
all busy, or maybe you don’t feel like dropping money on an Uber. The next best 
option would be to take a bus, but where can the bus even take you? 
Technically, you could take the bus all the way to downtown San Diego if you 
wanted, but that would take hours. For this list, I’ll take efficiency into account 
and will be sticking exclusively to places that you can get to in 30 minutes or less. I hope the places on this list satisfy your food cravings and show that you don’t have to go too far to get a great meal. Happy bussing! 
Tender Gre ens
4545 La Jolla Village Dr, San Diego, CA 92122On bus route: Any bus that stops at UTC
Conveniently located at Westfield UTC, this is one of my go-to spots that’s close to 
campus for fresh, healthy, feel-good food. Each “plate” order comes with a protein, a salad, and a carb; my favorite combination is the seared tuna, baby spinach salad (with goat cheese and hazelnuts!) and creamy mashed potatoes. The salmon is also a flavorful option if you don’t like things rare, and the mint lemonade and agua 
frescas get honorable mention. 
Poki 1/2 
8657 Villa La Jolla Dr #109, La Jolla, CA 92037
On bus route: 201, 202, 150, 30, 101
I’ve been to a lot of poke places, and this one has to be the best bang for your buck. 
The small bowl, which is around $10, only comes with two scoops of fish, but don’t let that fool you — the base and heaping portions of add-ons and toppings will fill 
you up quickly. The fish is always fresh, the workers are always helpful, and the 
biggest plus of all: avocado isn’t an extra charge. 
Pro tip: Their name is true; simply ask for one-and-a-half portions of the add-ons 
and toppings if you feel like an extra helping! 
Oscar’s Mexican Seafood 
703 Turquoise St, San Diego, CA 92109On bus route: 30 
Oscar’s usually has a line out the door, but there’s a reason: their seafood tacos are amazing. At around $5 a piece, the tacos are a bit on the expensive end, but I 
usually balance this out by getting one Surf and Turf taco, which has skirt steak and shrimp, and a battered fish taco, which is slightly more reasonable at $2.25. For a different taste, try their ceviche, or if you get here early enough, they offer a smoked fish burrito for only $5.50. Their Pacific Beach location is just a few blocks from the beach, so you can take your food and enjoy some ocean views. 
Cafe Coyote
2461 San Diego Avenue, San Diego CA 92110On bus route: 150
After exploring San Diego’s historic Old Town, head to Cafe Coyote for some great Mexican food. The first time I ate here, I remember being initially overwhelmed 
because their menu is huge — they serve everything from sopas to tamales to tacos to burritos. For those who are over 21, they also have plenty of colorful margaritas to choose from. For a take-home snack, stop by the front to pick up a bag of wonderfully sugary and cinnamon-y bunuelos.
Sugar and Scribe 
7660 Fay Avenue I, La Jolla, CA 92037
On bus route: 30
While La Jolla is known for its brunch, Sugar and Scribe takes it up a notch with creations like The Smothered and Covered Skillet with scrambled eggs, bacon, and 
gravy over roasted potatoes, Beef and Guinness Pie with a flaky puff pastry top, and, my personal favorite, Lemon Curd Pancakes with orange cardamom syrup. 
Coffee is from the local Dark Horse Coffee Roasters, and if you’re not hungry enough for a full meal, head inside to the bakery to check out their selection of fresh breads and pastries instead. Owner Chef Maeve Rochford has been featured on The Food Network a few times, so this is definitely worth checking out for your next morning outing. Best Restaurants That You Can Bus To
By ANNIKA  OLIVES        Lifestyle Editor
Sugar and Scribe, located in downtown La Jolla, is a popular brunch 
destination.PHOTO COURTESY OF SUGAR AND SCRIBE
PHOTO COURTESY OF POKE 1/2LIFESTYLE        THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Oof, Midterms: Advice for Destress and Success// by Natalie Duprey
We are halfway through the quarter and chances are that you, my dear Triton, are as stressed as I am. 
You got your first round of midterms back and wondering to yourself: “Where did I go wrong?” , “What is 
happening?” , and “WHY?” .  While I, personally, cannot answer any of those questions for you, I can provide ways for you to destress so that you can ace that next round of midterms.
Rewind
Over the course of my time at UC San Diego, I found that it’s extremely important to take a step back and put things in perspective. While you are here, you will realize that there should be more to college than constant studying, which can be hard to see due to the competitive academic culture at UCSD. While you should be focusing on your studies — that is why you are here after all! — it’s just as important to make 
sure that you have other non-academic pursuits and hobbies. For me, it’s writing and seeing new parts of 
San Diego, even if it means getting a little lost. The best time to explore these other interests would be now since you might have a bit of free time before your next exam.
Relax
There are plenty of ways for you to destress both on and off campus. One place to start is to pursue some of those hobbies I was mentioning earlier. I highly suggest something that’s creative, such as painting or photography. I recently started splattering paint around silhouettes and have found the mess of it brings out a strange childlike sense of accomplishment. But I also find myself stress cleaning because there is 
something incredibly satisfying about a clean, organized desk spread. There also are plenty of dogs for 
you to pet at Therapy Fluffies at the Zone, but if you want to spend more time with animals, consider volunteering with the San Diego Humane Society. If you are looking for something even simpler, walk over to the Scripps Coastal Reserve, and watch the sunset by the cliffs with some friends. I assure you, it is a 
great way to make some memories and enjoy being outside in the moment.
Reflect
Once you have cleared your mind and gotten that anxiety under control, it’s time to retrace your steps and see how to improve. We all tend to fall for the trap that is procrastination, but it’s a terrible habit to have 
when working in a quarter system. Once things start piling up, they can get a bit out of control, so it’s best 
to always start your assignment, even if it’s just brainstorming thesis ideas or thinking of how to do the first part, as soon as you receive them. Another study habit I learned is to study somewhere other than home and Geisel. At home, you are too comfortable, and at Geisel, it’s too crowded and full of other people who 
are stressed. I like to find a nice middle ground, like a coffee shop for when I need background noise and 
sometimes at La Jolla Riford Library, when I need to get off campus but want a quiet atmosphere; plus, it’s right around the corner from The Taco Stand for when I need a study break. 
While these are some of my tips for surviving midterms and inevitable finals, they might not work for 
everyone. The key is to figure out the right balance between social life and academics, in order to thrive here. So, don’t stress too much, and best of luck on midterms!
UC San Diego seems to encompass an overwhelming amount of space; from Earl Warren College to Roger Revelle College to the UCSD School of Medicine, there is always more to see and do. Still, over our short few years here, we all manage to find our little spots on campus that we fit right into. 
These are Lifestyle’s favorite UCSD spaces — we hope you’ll be able to relate or even find a new spot to study, work, chat, or feel at home. 
Middle Of Muir — Annika
I’m from the Bay Area, so the first time I took a tour of UCSD and saw that the coffee shop inside MOM was called Muir Woods, it felt like a sign. MOM is anything and everything you 
want it to be — the cool study spot you never had, a great place for nightly music, a comfortable catch-up location with a friend. It’s a staple for Muirons — and even for people from other colleges — for warm and friendly vibes. The amount of people at UCSD can feel overwhelming at times, but I always know someone when I walk into MOM, and it makes my college experience just a little more personal and my day just a little bit better. 
Warren C ollege — Natasha
I feel like Warren is a place that everyone ignores and, honestly, forgets even exists. It’s out of the way, secluded, dreary, and bleak-looking most days. But I like Warren. I’m not even a Warren student; I’m in John Muir College, but all of my friends are in Warren and have lived there for the past two years. This year, I joined them and we all live in the same college! It’s nice being close to my friends and not having to walk 20 minutes from the Village to Warren in the middle of the night every weekend anymore. It’s also nice to live in a quiet and secluded 
college on campus. Warren feels separated from the rest of campus; some people would find that lonely, but I find it relaxing. It’s a break from the crowded and huge campus we live on. 
Also, the academic buildings in the college are beautiful. The reflective building looks so cool on days where the sky is blue and there are a perfect amount of clouds; it’s like you can’t tell where the sky begins or ends. Also, there is literally a house on top of one of the buildings — that’s pretty cool.
Biomedical Library — Annika
I know that Geisel Library is the holy grail for most UCSD students, but I always found it to be too stressful and too distracting. I started studying in Biomed when I was a freshman and 
it’s been my go-to study spot ever since. It’s quiet, making it the perfect place to hunker down with some math homework or neuroscience notes, and it’s often less crowded, since it’s a bit further away from the center of campus, making it easier to find a spot or even a whole table for you and some friends. 
Rooftop of Keeling Apartments — Natalie
Last year, when I was staying in Keeling Apartments, I often found myself wandering around the top of Building 2. The view of the ocean is mesmerizing, especially during sunset. I loved the way that the sky always seems like it was painted different shades of orange, pink, and purple. Not to mention, if you get there before the sunsets, you will have plenty of time for golden hour Instagram pictures. For me, there was just something inherently peaceful about coming from a long day of classes to the beautiful rooftop gardens with a book and a blanket. The rooftop of Keeling is definitely the place to go if you need to clear your head or relax.Oof , Midterms: Advice for 
Destress and Success
Our Favorite UCSD SpacesBy Natalie  Duprey        Lifestyle Staff Writer
By  Lifestyle  Staff
ART BY SUSAN SUN10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 9 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
Best Film Starring Michael Scott not playing Michael: “Beautiful Boy”
“Beautiful Boy, ” or “Michael Scott (Steve Carell) reacting to Timothée Chalamet crying, making out, doing drugs, and embracing the curliest of hair curls” is basically what you expect — a somber drama about a dad and son struggling with the son’s drug addiction — and nothing more. Obviously, 
there’s fine performances from Chalamet and Scott, and between the two are a number of touching moments. Whether it’s an addiction, a dysfunctional 
relationship, depression, or just growing up, there’s a lot someone can relate to in this film. Michael, in particular, exchanges his egocentric, high-strung act in exchange for a softer “dad next door” look. He goes from being someone you’ d not want as your boss to someone you’ d wish was your dad. Still, 
tear-jerking scenes and above-average acting and cinematography are not enough to make a great or even a good movie. Granted, “Beautiful Boy” is 
based off a true story, but its messy writing and uninteresting dialogue belonged to a movie of a B-level caliber. Y es, the “addiction is an illness” story is a commendable one to tell, but the movie’s execution of it does not set the film apart from other biopics wrestling with the same conflicts. But if 
you, like 95 percent of the movie’s audience, are there for either Elio Perlman or Michael Scott, then you won’t be disappointed. The movie itself won’t 
turn heads like “Call Me By Y our Name” or “The Office, ” but its two beautiful boys — I mean, talented actors — sure do.
—Natalie Tran, Senior Staff Writer
Best Film Starring Jim Halpert not playing Jim: “ A Quiet Place”
Do you remember that scene in “The Office” when the entire office maintained a silent streak of 14 minutes? Imagine if there were much higher stakes and only featured Jim Halpert, and you’re looking at the Oscar-worthy film “ A Quiet Place. ” Directed by and starring Jim Halpert (John Krasinski), this film is a true masterpiece of the thriller-suspense genre. It centers around Halpert’s family (assumably a new one after Pam, since this one features 
Emily Blunt as his wife) in the midst of an apocalyptic midwest town. The town, and presumably most of the country, is under attack by long-limbed, 
vicious creatures that are attracted by any sounds that are louder than a whisper. Accordingly, Halpert and his family live as silently as possible, communicating only via sign language, walking barefoot, and using an array of signals for emergency communications. Jim’s performance in this piece is notable for how much he expressed with his body language and facial expressions — a talent he no doubt developed during his duration in “The 
Office. ” It is evident from the very beginning that he remains the loyal, determined, and courageous Jim we all know and love, and that this apocalyptic 
twist of events only made him stronger. Additionally, due to his skilled directing style, viewers will be held in constant suspense and made hyper-aware of every sound, including their own breathing. Overall, “ A Quiet Place” is worthy of many awards, but its most notable aspect is Jim Halpert. 
—Daisy Scott, A&E Editor
Best Film Starring Pam Beesly not playing Pam: “The 15:17 to Paris”
Clint Eastwood’s “The 15:17 to Paris” is a biographical account of the 2015 Thalys train terrorist attack and stars Spencer Stone, Anthony Sadler, and Alek Skarlatos as themselves. It also casts Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) in a supporting role as the mother of Skarlatos. The film itself is drawn out, 
spending more than half of its screen-time building up to the central action. It also gives the impression of incoordination as the stars of the film are 
ameteur actors. Y et, in spite of the failures of the film, Pam offers a stellar, though short, performance as an overprotective single mother. Part devout Christian, part entitled parent, Pam’s character displays a  variety of acute emotions in response to different situation throughout her performance. She is able to exert intense anger and annoyance at academic staff for their reasonable concern for her child yet also exhibits absolute love and compassion for Alek when he confides in her. Pam’s performance simultaneously imparts a succinct explanation for Alek Skarlatos’s troubled youth 
and stirs sympathy for both him and his mother. Even though Eastwood’s film is doomed by its extensive exploration of the stars’ backstories and the 
oversaturation of beginner actors, the performances of the professional actors that Eastwood did cast are compelling. Pam’s performance as Skarlatos’s mother stands in sharp contrast to the rest of the film and gives “The 15:17 to Paris” the award for Best Film Starring Pam (not playing Pam).
—Aaron Hong, Staff WriterThe Office Oscars
Let’s be real. In the midst of midterms and winter quarter coming to a close, the majority of college students are not up-to-date on all the latest Oscar’s drama, much less have had the time to watch all 
of the award-nominated films. We do know, however, that in times of trouble and stress there is only one true source of comfort: rewatching “The Office. ” The Guardian Arts and Entertainment staff, therefore, have taken upon ourselves to present to you the only awards that really matter: The Office Oscars (this is as close to the real Dundies it gets, folks).
PHOTO COURTESY OF YOUTUBE.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF SYFY .COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF IAMKISHANVKS.COMA&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
Best Film Starring Dwight Schrute not playing Dwight: “The Meg”
“The Meg” is a sci-fi thriller released this past summer starring Jason Statham, alongside a diverse cast that includes Dwight Schrute III (Rainn Wilson). On the surface, “The Meg” has all the makings of a great thriller: a bankable action-star protagonist, a high movie 
budget, and an enduring, modern classic subgenre of shark attacks. Y et, a deeper dive, reveals that the film is just so horribly confusing. 
The action and the fast-paced cinematography seems to reinforce the film’s thriller status. Y et, the predictable plot and overt interjection of comedy make “The Meg” a seem like a high-budget incarnation of a ridiculous direct-to-TV B movie shark spoof. “The Meg” is a comedy masquerading as a thriller with an inflated budget. However, while the genre direction and character development certainly are 
disappointing, Dwight does enhance the comedy in the film. Instead of being an assistant to the regional manager at Dunder Mifflin, 
Schrute is cast as an eccentric billionaire investor, one adept in social skills and interactions. The presence of a malicious villain is replaced by comic relief as shots of Dwight butchering the Chinese language, yelling, and trying to kill the shark litter the film. He makes an 
otherwise mediocre film more enjoyable through plenty of one-liners, awkward interactions and also just because he’s Dwight from “The 
Office” and it is impossible to see him in the film as otherwise. 
—Aaron Hong, Staff Writer
Best Film Starring Andy Bernard and Karen Filippelli not playing Andy or Karen: “Tag”
A feel-good comedy about a group of friends who travel the country for an everlasting game of tag is just what was needed for 2018. New ideas in cinema are hard to come by recently, and this film was a breath of fresh air. The underlying message of being in control of one’s own 
youth was heartwarming and beautiful to watch on screen. The concept of a group of professional men entirely abandoning their workloads 
to crash a friend’s wedding for the sole purpose of making him “it” is absurd in the best sense of the word. Walking out of this movie, one will find themselves fondly holding onto their oldest friendships and evaluating what it truly means to grow up. The casting of Andy (Ed Helms), playing the role of Hoagie, an overgrown child could not be more fitting. It seemed as if the film was merely a display of what one 
may find Andy Bernard doing in his time not spent at the office. Andy gave a truly remarkable performance as his on-screen presence and 
energy could not be ignored. Of course, Andy could not be the only office representation in the film, which also featured Karen Filippelli (Rashida Jones), playing the role of Cheryl. She plays the love interest of two of the film’s leads and does so wonderfully. As a whole, she does a commendable job with the screen time she has and continues to present her nonchalant charm. Aside from the film being a total happy-go-lucky, enjoyable film, it is always exciting to see the cast of “The Office” outside of Scranton, PA. 
— Matthew Rudas, Senior Staff Writer
Best Film Starring Kelly Kapoor not playing Kelly: “Ocean’s 8”
“Ocean’s 8” has since been praised throughout 2018 as a worthy addition to the Ocean’s franchise, as a big step for movies about women, and as just a good heist film. But, new to its accolade resume — it was by far the best picture this year to feature resident gossip and pop culture know-how Kelly Kapoor. Kelly (Mindy Kaling) seems to be in a different part of her life than when we left her after the 9th season of “The Office. ” No longer off with Ryan doing whatever, Kelly has transformed into a soft-spoken jewelry maker with a new assignment 
— dismantle a priceless necklace in the heist of the century, and along the way, grows more confident and even gets into Tinder, like we 
all deserved to see from a 2018 Kelly. The film well earns its feminine twist on its older compatriots. Clever schemes are made by beautiful women, witty lines keep the audience laughing, and the team attends the Met Gala in dresses nearly as dazzling as the stolen jewels. A heist film with all the glitz, glamor, and glory that one could hope for, “Ocean’s 8” has no shame in pointedly reveling in the aesthetic of large-
scale crime and luxury. Kelly would certainly approve. 
—Chloe Esser, A&E Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF GEEKTYRANT.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF BOSTONGLOBE.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF GLAMOUR.COM12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 9 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&Ehealthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
Warren Live, an annual concert 
sponsored by Earl Warren College’s student council, took 
place this past Thursday with its biggest headliner yet: Sean Kingston. After last year’s stellar performance from Jesse McCartney, and given that Kingston’s songs formed the basis of 
some of most college students’ middle school 
memories, this was a fantastic opportunity to hear him in person.
Kingston’s music peaked in chart popularity 
in the mid-2000’s, with his first single, 
“Beautiful Girls, ” hitting number one on 
Billboard’s Hot 100 Singles chart. The song is still a staple over a decade later, fitting in at parties, on road trips, and even when just 
jamming alone. This continued popularity is 
a testament to Kingston’s longevity. His other two most recognizable singles, “Fire Burning” and “Eenie Meenie” with Justin Bieber, which peaked at 5 and 15 on the charts respectively, 
were both essential party songs for years on 
their release, turning Kingston into a beloved generational figure. The question going into the Valentine’s night performance was whether that 
enjoyment would translate when experiencing the songs live, or if nostalgia was the main 
factor in Kingston’s continuation.
Emeryld, Kingston’s opener, began the night 
with a spectacular performance. Her crooning yet powerful vocals contrasted perfectly with the haze from the smog machines, and her dark green outfit stood out against the soft pink 
backlights. Her performance, which included 
her recent singles “Honey Bee” and “Running, ” was perhaps the highlight of the night due to her soaring voice and exceptional dancing. Her interaction with the crowd was impeccable, 
weaving quick chats with the crowd into breaks 
between songs. Despite the crowd’s lack of familiarity with her music, her excitement was infectious as she encouraged everyone to 
sing along with the chorus of “Dinner Party:” 
“Really know what you’re doin’ , know what you’re talkin’ about/ they don’t know what they be talkin’ about. ” Receiving a round of applause as she left the stage, she promised to return 
soon.
After a brief break between the artists, 
Kingston took the stage to a massive roar from 
the collected students. His energy picked up 
right where Emeryld left off, running around the stage and shouting into the microphone 
before jumping into his performance. Full of boyish enthusiasm and hitting the high notes 
with ease, his vocals were straight out of 2007. 
After a few songs from his more recent albums, he moved on to the selling point of the show: his earlier hits.
As the opening chords of “Beautiful 
Girls” spilled out of the speakers, the crowd surged forward with even more energy than the earlier songs. With the majority of the audience knowing every word to the song, it 
sounded like one collective voice was singing 
its catchy hook. Kingston’s friendliness and rapport with the audience embodied the mood of the night;  feeling as if each member of the 
audience was friends with one another, joined 
together in mutual appreciation of the music. His other songs were similarly unifying, with “Fire Burning” being another fantastic crowd pleaser.  
The performance went as smoothly as 
possible, aside from a few small missteps. Preferably, Kingston would have played more of his own hits, rather than ones that he wrote 
for other popular artists (e.g. “Whatcha Say” by Jason Derulo). At one point, he brought 
his friend onstage to perform his own, yet-unreleased music. For an event centered 
around nostalgia, it was a strange choice. 
For one stretch of the show, Kingston spent a few songs not singing at all, holding the microphone to the audience instead. Though 
at first this seemed like an error, the crowd 
took this opportunity to show their love toward Kingston and demonstrated their appreciation for his artistry. 
This night was one of the best I’ve had in 
a while, largely due to how well put together the event was. Dorrin Famininy, the chair of Warren Concerts and Festivals Commission, said that “heading Warren Live for the second 
time in a row has been one of the most 
exhilarating experiences of [her] life, ” and that she is “so grateful to have played [her] part in making it happen. ” After the spectacle of this year’s iteration, I couldn’t be more excited to 
see how Warren Live continues to improve 
next year. 
—  Alex  Rickard
Contributing WriterThis Valentine’s Day, Emeryld and Sean Kingston brought both nostalgia and contemporary music to Warren Live.
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  Price Center West Ballroom
Concert Date   February 14, 2019Sean  Kingston  with  EmeryldPHOTO COURTESY OF ALEX RICKARD
CA-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
WEDS@7 : CHARLES CURTISTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 19 - FEB 24
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20 • 7pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org8am
CHANGEMAKER VOLUNTEERS 
NEEDED FOR ASHOKA U EXCHANGE 
CONFERENCE – PARADISE POINT 
RESORT AND SPA
We are looking for a few good Changemaker 
volunteers! UC San Diego is co-hosting the 9th annual Ashoka U Exchange Beyond Boundaries 
and Borders: Expanding Possibilities for the 
Future of Higher Education on February 20 23, 
2019 at the Paradise Point Resort in San Diego, CA (Wednesday-Friday) and UC San Diego's La 
Jolla campus (Saturday). The Ashoka U Exchange 
is a 3-day learning lab, testing ground, space for 
celebrating innovation, and spark for the collaboration of 700 educators, students, and other higher education professionals from across the world. Its a home for creative problem solvers, learners, listeners, and visionaries. (For more information about the Ashoka U Exchange, go to https://ashokau.org/exchange/.) Contact: dianak@rady.ucsd.edu
1:30pm
SMOG EATING MURAL UNVEILING - 
OUTSIDE OF PRICE CENTER STARBUCKS
Greeks Gone Green is an organization on campus 
that works on projects to spread environmental awareness to the community. The organization is presenting a poster on campus near the ATMs by Price Center. The poster itself has spray paint technology plastered on top of the art that essentially makes it a "smog eating" poster. The technology converts harmful air pollutants into less harmful ones. There was a competition for the art on the poster and the poster is being used in a scientific experiment to test the actual amount of change in pollution in the area surrounding the poster. The poster will be permanent and the experiment will be continuous, with help from the Chemistry department. Contact: afossier@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK – 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn more about what makes you most stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
3:30pm
STARTUP SHOWCASE AT IGNITE 
2019 – PRICE CENTER
Want to join the next generation of innovation? 
Join Ignite 2019 - UC San Diego's annual regional innovation and entrepreneurship conference - and don't miss the Startup Showcase where 40+ startups from around the Cali-Baja region will be showing their companies. 
Want to demo your comapny at the Startup 
Showcase? It's free, apply online here: https://ignite.ucsd.edu/get-involved/showcase/ Register for Ignite 2019 at https://ignite.ucsd.edu/register/ Contact: ignite@ucsd.edu10am
BAJA ON HORSEBACK – BAJA 
CALIFORNIA
Did you ever dream of being a cowboy as a kid? Well here's your chance! Sign up quick to secure your spot in our Baja on Horseback trip in February where you'll get the chance to ride horses, taste authentic Mexican dishes, stay in cabins, and so much more! 
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 6- 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
Learn fun and healthy relationship skills and 
tips on how to plan a date night or a trip with your partner! Presented by CARE at SARC. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS MANUAL 
CINEMA – MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
No Blue Memories: The Life of Gwendolyn 
Brooks brings to life the story of one of Chicago's most beloved figures. Brooks was an icon, a poet laureate, and a Pulitzer Prize winner, but she was also a treasured educator and mentor to the countless writers and children who knew her as their very own "Miss Brooks." Weaving together poetry, storytelling, original music performed by a full jazz combo, and striking visuals, No Blue Memories is an exploration of Brooks's beloved city and a story of how she navigated identity, craft, and politics over the course of one of the most remarkable careers in American literary history. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduWED2.20
FRI2.22TUE2.19
9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION – THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. 
11am
ART AND SOUL – THE ZONE
Enjoy a fun DIY arts and crafts project! Discover 
your creativity and destress!
Contact: srlu@ucsd.edu
12pm
WOMEN'S CENTER - WOMEN'S 
CENTER LIVING ROOM
"Juke Jam" Tiny Desk Tuesdays. Join us at the 
Women's Center as we celebrate Black artists 
and bring visibility to the healing power of song, 
spirit of soul, and expressive power of poetry with 
NPR's Tiny Desk Concerts.
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 7 – BEAR ROOM, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER
Join us for an interfaith dialogue as we discuss 
our lived experiences and spiritual journeys. 
Come prepared to learn from others, ask 
questions, and honor our shared humanity. Open 
to all faith and non-faith backgrounds. Full 
attendance at this workshop will grant you 2 
stamps. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
7am
ROCK CLIMB MISSION GORGE – 
MISSION GORGE
More info here: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/2190109921228213/. Contact: mchosich@ucsd.eduSAT2.23
SUN2.24THU2.21CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
8am
CHANGEMAKER VOLUNTEERS 
NEEDED FOR ASHOKA U EXCHANGE CONFERENCE – PARADISE POINT 
RESORT AND SPA
We are looking for a few good Changemaker 
volunteers! UC San Diego is co-hosting the 9th 
annual Ashoka U Exchange Beyond Boundaries 
and Borders: Expanding Possibilities for the Future of Higher Education on February 20 23, 2019 at the Paradise Point Resort in San Diego, CA (Wednesday-Friday) and UC San Diego's La Jolla campus (Saturday). The Ashoka U Exchange is a 3-day learning lab, testing ground, space for celebrating innovation, and spark for the collaboration of 700 educators, students, and other higher education professionals from across the world. Its a home for creative problem solvers, learners, listeners, and visionaries. (For more information about the Ashoka U Exchange, go to https://ashokau.org/exchange/.) Contact: dianak@rady.ucsd.edu
8:20am
STARTUP ROADSHOW @ IGNITE – 
PRICE CENTER
Startup Roadshow at Ignite will be a half-day 
program featuring sub-sessions themed around Regulation of Artificial Intelligence used in Healthcare. Come join us! The schedule is as follows8:45 - 9:00am: Welcome9:00 - 10:00am: What uses of artificial intelligence in healthcare does the FDA regulate10:00 - 11:00am: How does the FDA regulate devices that include AI?11:00 - 11:15am: Break11:15 - 12:00pm: Panel - Pros and Cons of participating in the FDA's new pre-certification program12:30 - 2:30pm: Entrepreneur Office Hours
Contact: ignite@ucsd.edu
11am
RECRUITMENT FAIR – LIBRARY 
WALK
Interested in working at a startup? Join us for 
the 1st annual Recruitment Fair at Ignite on February 21st, 11:00am 2:00pm. Startups will be actively recruiting!The Recruitment Fair will take place on Library Walk and is open and free of charge to all students, staff and faculty across the campus as well as friends of UC San Diego. Contact: jnhernandez@ucsd.edu
1pm
WATER WALK WITH CHARITY: 
WATER @ IGNITE 2019 – LIBRARY 
WALK
This year, Ignite at UC San Diego is helping to 
tackle lack of clean water by generating approx. $26,000 in funding for clean water projects with Charity: Water. Join us on in experiencing the struggle not having access to clean water and help spread awareness to support more clean water projects around the world. Charity: Water is a non-profit organization bringing clean and safe drinking water to people in developing countries. Millions of people around the world walk hours each day to collect dirty water. Water Walk invites guests to walk a fraction of the distance in someone elses shoes to experience it for themselves. Register for Ignite 2019 at https://ignite.ucsd.edu/register/ Contact: ignite@ucsd.edu
5pm
R&R SQUAD – THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
ANIMALS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. It has teeth
5. Legwear of yore10. Some Morse symbols
14. Famous musical
15. Take one’s time
16. Once again17. ‘’Anatomy of a Murder’’ director 
Preminger
18. Peculiar speech form
19. Vehicle at an auction, perhaps
20. Sound of relief21. It’s in your head23. Norton Sound city
25. Reverberated
26. Rapeseed oil
29. Small speck31. One way to read32. Parcheesi, e.g.
37. Tall spar
38. Irritable
39. Public uproar40. Canned fruit42. It may be cast out43. They’re caught on the beach44. Daily ritual, below the border45. Joint injury49. Trumpeting bird50. Bechamel, e.g.53. Ballet finale, e.g.57. Freedom from hardship58. Was in a funk59. Jai ___60. Befuddled61. ___ ear and out the other62. Water source63. Glossary entry64. Temporary housing65. Fawning females?DOWN
 1. Rough seas feature2. Words to live by3. Tiny arachnid
4. Power company problems
5. Mark of infamy
6. Military chaplain7. Verdi’s ‘’Caro nome, ’’ e.g.8. Ancient city near the Dardanelles
9. Perfect proportion
10. Villainous Vader
11. ___ a customer12. Wickiup relative13. Scimitar, e.g.
22. Scored perfectly
24. Tiresome
26. Word with boot or day27. Winglike28. Narrow victory margin
29. ‘’Sugaring Off’’ painter
30. Horse feed
32. Group of quails33. Immigrant’s document34. Draws a bead on35. Subject to debate36. Sicilian peak38. Pass along41. Ohio Indian42. Circle width (Abbr.)44. Subjects of Gustavus I45. Blood and tears link46. Aspect47. Stair part48. Mr. T’s gang49. Means of detection51. First-class52. On top of54. Spicy stew55. Hill partner56. Is unwellCARS
2000 Infiniti I30 Touring in San Diego, CA. 
This 2000 Infiniti I30 four door four door 
Sedan Touring Sedan features a 3.0L V6 
PFI DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT 24 
VOLT six cylinder Gasoline engine. The 
vehicle is SAND BEIGE with...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2002 Ford Taurus SE in San Diego, CA. 
Options Included: Compact disc player, 
Cruise Control, Power Seats, Anti-Lock 
Brakes, Air bag: Driver, Air bag: Passenger, 
Powered windows, Power Locks, 
Rear Window Defroster, Security, AIR 
CONDITIONED: Front, Powered steering, Fog Lights. 2002 Ford Taurus very clean 
inside and out, drives good...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2004 Toyota Tacoma PreRunner Xtracab in 
San Diego, CA. Options Included: Cassette 
Radio, Compact disc player, Cruise 
Control, Anti-Lock Brakes, Air bag: Driver, 
Air bag: Passenger, Security, A-C: Front, 
Alloy rims, Fog LightsFor Sale By Owner! 
2004 Toyota Tacoma SR5 Perunner. Runs 
and drives good! It gets great mileage. 
Around twenty cty/25 hwy miles-per-
gallon… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBIKES
1997 Pristine FREE AGENT 20’’ Ground Control race bike/Excellent in San Diego, 
CA. Up for Sale is a Pristine FREE AGENT 
XL Aluminum race frame (Super clean, 
almost Immaculate frame, sold in the 
U.S.A. in 1997). The Frame stickers are Original and are next to Perfect. Only the chro-moly FA forks have a couple scratch -
es. Comes with many Original parts, and 
Upgrades, Solidifying this Sweet looking, 
Turn key Performer...ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
$399 Motorized Bikes CUSTOM MADE in 
San Diego, CA. hello today I’m selling 
MOTORIZED BIKES, these things get 150-
180mis per-gallon they are easy to work on and very safe. I can build any motor 
any color exactly what you want ( extra 
cost ).( ONLY two DAYS TO BUILD )and I’m 
local so no driving to deep san diego just 
for your bike that you will have to pay 600 
for, perfect if you just lost your license 
or if you aren’t old enough to drive...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2010 Trek 2.1 Road Bike in San Diego, CA. 
I have a 3yr old Trek model 2.1 road bike 
for sale. Frame size is 56cm so it’s good 
for someone around 5’9-6’ tall. Only 3 
yrs old and in fantastic condition. Comes with Shimano 105 derailleurs, crank, and brakes which are very good. ten speed 
cassette with the two compact front chain 
rings(20 speeds total)....ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
JOBS
San Diego AP Chemistry Tutor - Varsity 
Tutors has students in San Diego looking 
for AP Chemistry tutoring. Varsity Tutors 
is a live learning platform that connects 
tutors with students to provide personal -
ized learning. In addition to having knowl -
edge in AP Chemistry... ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
San Diego College Physics Tutor - Varsity 
Tutors has students in San Diego looking 
for College Physics tutoring. Varsity Tutors 
is a live learning platform that connects 
tutors with students to provide personal -
ized learning. In addition to having knowl -
edge in College Physics, clients also look for tutors who are friendly, articulate, and 
reliable...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
San Diego SAT Math Tutor - Varsity Tutors 
is always looking for bright individuals 
in San Diego who are passionate about 
mentoring others. Aside from having 
knowledge in a subject area, tutors should 
also be friendly, articulate, and punctual...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972In what has been a tough stretch 
of basketball, UC San Diego fell to 
California State University, Los Angeles 
76–61, their second loss of the season to 
the unranked Golden Eagles on Feb. 16 at 
RIMAC Arena. The Tritons struggled to 
put up points against their budding rival to the north once again, only scoring 55 against CSULA in their last matchup. 
With the loss, UCSD has now lost three 
of their last four games since their 73–56 
Spirit Night win over California State 
University, Stanislaus, dropping games 
to California Polytechnic University 
Pomona and California State University, 
San Bernardino on the road last week. 
Falling to the Golden Eagles carries extra significance because it marks the first 
Triton loss of the season at RIMAC Arena. 
In the loss, UCSD’s only o ffensive 
success came from their guards. Senior guard Christian Bayne only sat for one 
minute, leading the team with 22 points 
and hitting all 5 of his free throws while 
also pulling in 9 rebounds. Next up for 
the Tritons was redshirt freshman Tyrell Roberts, who dropped 13 points with 5 
rebounds and 2 assists. 
While these guards led the team 
in scoring, as no other UCSD player 
finished in double digits on the night, 
they encapsulated the most frustrating pieces of the loss: poor 3-point shooting. 
The pair shot 1–5 and 1–6 from 3-point 
range on the night, respectively. Only sophomore guard Gabe Hadley shot well 
from deep, hitting 3 of his 4 attempts from 
deep. Of the six Tritons who attempted 
3-pointers, Hadley was the only one to hit more than one of his attempts. 
As a team, UCSD shot a lowly 24.1 
percent from 3-point range in what was by 
far their worst showing at RIMAC Arena 
of the season. As a team that lives or dies 
by the three-ball, the Tritons were bound 
to have a slow stretch at some point, but the team had di fficulties on all of their 
shots, going 23–63 on the night, good for just 36.5 percent from the field. 
While the stretch of losses stings on 
its own, falling out of the Division-II top-
25 rankings may sting most of all. With 
the past few losses, UCSD fell to third 
place in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, with their 13–5 record trailing behind the leaders by less than two 
games. If UCSD is serious about making a 
run in the playo ffs, they’ll need to heat up 
over these next few games, and with just four games le ft on the schedule before the 
CCAA Tournament, the Tritons recent showings leave a lot to be desired. 
UCSD will play two games on the 
road next week before heading home for its final two games of the regular season. 
Their next matchup is against the Sonoma 
State University Seawolves on the road on 
Thursday, Feb. 21. SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
Men’s Basketball Drops Two Straight, Falls Out of Top-25
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICSBY Jack Dorfman
SPorts EditorLast week, the UC San Diego 
men’s volleyball team faced o ff 
against two University of California 
rivals: UC Irvine Anteaters on 
Thursday and UC Santa Barbara 
Gauchos on Friday. A fter being 
steamrolled by the Anteaters earlier 
this season, the Tritons put up 
much more of a fight in their second 
matchup. UC Irvine, however, 
emerged victorious again, winning 
a close match 3–2. The next day, the 
Tritons came back home to play the sixth-ranked Gauchos. All the fight 
UCSD showed in their game against UC Irvine disappeared. The Tritons 
were dominated by the Gauchos, dropping three straight sets, giving 
UCSB the match. With the results of last week included, the men’s 
volleyball team currently stands at 
5–9 overall and with an 0–3 record 
in the Big West Conference.
In their first game of the week 
against UC Irvine, UCSD got o ff to an unfortunate start. The Anteaters 
took the first set 25–19. Though 
the Tritons grappled for the lead, 
tying up the game four times, they 
ultimately were unable to take the 
lead. The next match, however, 
showcased the true potential of the UCSD team. In a match that had 14 ties and four lead changes, the 
Tritons won 27–25. UCSD also took 
the next match. 
After a bad start, it seemed like 
momentum was in now UCSD’s favor. But, in the fourth set, UCSD’s 
luck seemed to run out. The Tritons 
lost 25–14, in the largest point deficit in the game. This gave UC 
Irvine an opportunity to stay in the match, making the game go all 
the way down to the fifth set. In 
the final set, the Tritons got o ff to a 
slow start, allowing the Anteaters to 
climb to a 10–7 lead. 
The Tritons were, however, able 
to fight their way back once more, 
tying up the game at 14–14. A 
service error by redshirt freshman 
outside hitter Sean Staskus made the Tritons go down by one and an 
attack error by freshman middle 
blocker Logan Clark gave the game 
to the Anteaters. The final set score 
was 16–14.
In their second match of the 
week, the Tritons were unable to bounce back a fter their previous 
loss. UCSD got trounced by UCSB, 
giving up three straight sets to lose 
the match. The scores were 25–21, 
25–19, and 25–18, respectively. 
Next week, UCSD will head out 
onto the road to go up against UC 
Santa Cruz and Stanford University. 
Though the Tritons should be 
expected to handle the Division III 
Banana Slugs, as they did earlier 
this season at RIMAC Arena, UCSD 
will face a huge challenge in their 
matchup against the highly-touted 
Stanford Cardinals.16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Concordia (Oregon)
vs Azusa Pacificat UC Irvinevs Cal State Dominguez Hillsvs Cal State Dominguez HillsUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
Softball
M  Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball2PM3PM7PM
5:30PM7:30PM2/112/132/142/142/14
Women’s 
Basketball 
Keeps Rolling, 
Extends Winning 
Streak
Second-ranked Tritons coast to 
another home victory.Women's Basketball
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team, ranked No. 2, 
kept things rolling on Thursday 
defeating the California State University, Dominguez Hills Toros 
at RIMAC Arena, 89–70, making 
their Valentine’s Day just a bit 
sweeter. It was a complete team 
effort on both sides of the ball for 
the Tritons as they dished out assists 
and tallied up blocks all game lock. 
With the victory, they are now 21–0 
overall, including a 17–0 California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
record, which has them sitting in 
first place in the division with five 
games to go before playo ffs. One of two undefeated teams 
in the country, the UCSD women’s 
basketball team continued its excellence by jumping out to an 
early lead as the Tritons scored 
a whopping 30 points in the first 
quarter alone. The early outburst 
was capped o ff by an 11–3 run in the 
last 2:42 of the period. 
Senior guard Joleen Y ang set the 
tone early on, knocking down four 3-pointers in the first quarter and 
scoring a team-high 22 points on 
the night. Junior forward Mikayla 
Williams also had an impressive 
all-around game dropping 21 points 
while registering 6 brutal blocks and 
was all over CSUDH on the defensive 
side of the ball. Junior forward Haleigh Hat field exhibited her scoring ability as well, contributing 
13 points and 9 rebounds in the win. 
Junior guard Sydney Sharp, also 
remained hot, notching 17 points to go along with 5 boards, and 5 
assists. A fter the 26 and 18-point 
performances against California Polytechnic University Pomona 
and California State University, San 
Bernardino, respectively, Sharp was 
honored with the CCAA Player of 
the Week award. Sharp has displayed her terri fic shooting all year long, 
leading the team in 3-point field 
goals made with 55 and ranking 
second on the Tritons in 3-point 
percentage, knocking down 39 
percent of her attempts from deep.
UCSD’s exquisite ball movement 
was in full e ffect throughout the game, as it racked up a superb total of 24 assists, guiding four players to 
double digits. Good ball movement led to open looks as the Tritons 
connected on 56.5 percent (35–62) 
of their shots, and an outstanding 
54.5 percent (12–22) from three. 
Although CSUDH recorded 
16 steals and outscored UCSD in 
second-chance points, the Tritons 
were able to play their style of 
basketball. Their sheer dominance 
inside led the Tritons to a 40–24 
advantage in points in the paint. 
CSUDH’s Zhane Carter scored a 
game-high 24 points, but UCSD’s 
steady shooting kept the Tritons 
ahead for the whole game.
Looking ahead to their next 
game, the Tritons will look to improve upon their 22 turnovers, which allowed the Toros to stay in 
the game. With just five games le ft, 
the team is 21–0 and are in great 
shape for the remainder of the 
season, as they have the luxury of 
facing all sub-.500 teams until the 
CCAA tournament in early March.
UCSD will take on California 
State University, Los Angeles (8–14 
overall, 5–13 CCAA) at home in 
RIMAC Arena this Saturday, Feb.16 at 5:30 p.m. During this last stretch 
of games, the Tritons will aim to 
keep improving on the little things 
as they gear up for yet another 
postseason run.
Ha yden Wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.eduBY Hayden Wellbeloved
Contributing writerPHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICS
Wesley Xiao   Wex057@ucsd.edu
Men’s Volleyball Falls to 0-3 in Big West Play
The Tritons come up short against UC Irvine and UC Santa Barbara in weekend series.
BY Wesley Xiao
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICS