Protesting for more affordable housing, 
some UC San Diego graduate students in association with the UC Student-Workers 
Union (UAW) rallied in front of Jacobs Hall and marched through campus. On Tuesday, Feb. 19, grad students protested the Housing Dining Hospitality Office for planning to close two affordable housing 
complexes — the Single Graduate Apartments and 
the Rita Atkinson Residences — and inefficiently increasing housing costs.
The protestors made their way to Revelle 
College for a closed-door meeting, where the UAW 
representatives presented their case to the Associated 
Residential Community Housing Advisory Committee. In addition to the aforementioned demands, they would like annual teaching assistant 
and graduate student research salaries to increase 
with rent increases and subsidized rents for students who work part-time in the year (25-50 percent of the time).
“This protest is about having more affordable 
housing for graduate students, ” Head Steward of UAW Ahmed Aktar said to the UCSD Guardian. “One of the things we’re protesting is the transfer of Rita and other traditional graduate school housing 
complexes to undergraduates. There is a limited 
number of graduate housing available and the price has gone up in the last few years. ”
Starting in 2020, over 650 graduate students will 
no longer have the option of affordable housing 
at either SGA or Rita. The problem is further 
exacerbated by the fact that the price per bed will increase by 49 percent from 2016 to 2020. 
“The issue with the closing of Rita and SGA 
is that they are being replaced by units which are much more expensive, ” Representative of the UAW Affordable Housing Committee Drew Steeves said. “Essentially, for graduate students being paid by the university and who support themselves, using TA or GSR salaries are not enough to keep up with the rent increases that are being issued by UCSD HDH. ”
According to the US Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, people should be spending no more than 30 percent of their monthly gross income on housing. However, this is not considered as part 
of UCSD’s algorithm for charging rent on graduate 
housing; rather, they reduce the market values of housing by 20 percent. The algorithm does not consider the fact that graduate students earn less than half the average salary in San Diego County. 
“It is projected, and this is a conservative 
projection, that graduate students will be paying upwards of 40 percent of their disposable income on housing, ” Steeves said. “We’re looking at developing 
a metric which will tie the TA and GSR yearly salary 
increases to the equation, making sure that housing doesn’t become unaffordable for graduate students. ”
The AHC attempted to email Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla with supporting data on the housing problem, 
yet they did not receive a reply. Moreover, Steeve 
and Sven Burgerman, the leader of the movement, deliberated with the director HDH on how to best address their grievances. However, their attempts 
were to no avail, since HDH stands firmly with the 
20 percent below market value housing metric. 
 “Once the Nuevo West and Nuevo East projects 
open in 2020, the Rita is planned to transition to undergraduate housing, ” Associate Director of 
Strategic Marketing Communications Jade Griffin 
said. “ Affected graduate students will have priority for the option of moving to other graduate housing, including One Miramar St. and Central or South 
Mesa, our lower cost communities. The campus 
will subsidize displaced students to cover any rent differential in their new HDH housing assignments. ”
AHC believes that rent differentials are merely 
A “smog-eating” mural was 
unveiled near the Starbucks in Price Center by members of the 
environmentalist organization, 
Greeks Gone Green on Feb. 22. The mural, titled “Ride or Die, ” features a superimposed photograph of a 
bicycle over a car, and is sprayed 
with a catalyst that absorbs airborne pollutants. Inspired by a similar project installed at the University of 
Sheffield in England, the project aims 
to raise awareness of air pollution on campus, as well as to encourage members of campus life to become more involved in environmentalism.
“We must hold institutions 
accountable for finding methods to reduce waste while maintaining accessibility, so everyone can lead 
environmentally conscious loves, ” 
Samantha Noel, the research chair for Greeks Gone Green, wrote. “In doing so, we will develop a new norm 
that will save future generations. ”
Greeks Gone Green is 
a student-run organization 
comprised of members from both the Interfraternity Council and 
Panhellenic Council. Founded 
in 2013, the organization has also spearheaded other campus projects such as an inter-greek recycling 
challenge, and launched a petition to VOLUME 52, ISSUE 18  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 25, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
All Colleges to 
Offer Gender-Inclusive Housing in Fall Quarter 2019
Previously, such a housing option 
was only available in a few colleges.
UCSD
New Mural That “Eats” Smog Unvieled by Starbucks in Price Center
Shashi Mostafa, center, with members of Greeks Gone Green at the unveiling of their new mural // Photo by Alexandra FusteiThis fall for the upcoming 2019-20 
school year, UC San Diego will finally 
offer gender-inclusive housing as an 
option in all seven residential areas 
on campus. Both returning students and incoming freshmen will have the option to note a request for such 
lodging accommodations on their 
housing application. In partnership with the Housing Dining Hospitality, Residential Life will work to place interested students who want to live 
together within each college. 
Gender Inclusive Housing will 
be an option to those who complete 
the housing contract and make 
the $450 prepayment, which must 
have been submitted by the Feb. 24 deadline. Applications to stay in gender-inclusive housing, which will allow students who are not the same 
gender to live together to serve as 
an inclusive designated space for students within the LGBTQIA+ community, were available online.
Executive Director of HDH 
Hemlata Jhaveri spoke out on the significance of this expansion in the residential areas for the university’s 
students. 
“We are proud to be a part 
of a university that supports our 
students, inclusive of all genders, 
gender identities, and expressions, ” 
Jhaveri told the UCSD Guardian. “HDH has provided gender-inclusive housing options for our continuing 
undergraduate residents at each 
residential college and area for nearly 10 years. ”
Until recently, the primary 
opportunity for gender-inclusive 
housing was the LGBTQIA+ Living 
Learning Community in the John Muir College residential community — which was open to students in 
their second year. Approximately 73 
students participated in the gender-inclusive housing in the 2018-19 academic year.    
Director of Residential Life at 
Earl Warren College Dana Pysz explained that first-year and transfer students eligible to live on campus who are still in their first year at UCSD can expect to see the new 
option available in their housing 
application at their respective college or housing area.
UCSD has been working towards 
its expansion of more gender-neutral facilities all throughout campus. In a recent meeting held by UCSD administrators this week, it was announced that Dirty Birds, the 
restaurant replacing Round Table 
Pizza will have the first multi-stall gender-inclusive bathroom at Price Center. By Andrew Ha  staff WriterCAMPUS
Activists March for Affordable Housing on CampusPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
“Nine times out of 
ten, we settle for less 
in terms of toilet 
quality, and I’m not 
going to stand for it 
any longer. ”
TRITON  OUTFITTERS
A.S.  GRAPHICSApparel Sizes
Ten  Years  On  CampusOpinion,  Page   4
Features ,   Page 6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“People want their 
clothing cheap and 
trendy, and they want it 
quick. However, trends 
die quickly and with that 
comes waste.”MONDAY
 H 64 L 49
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54
TUESDAY
H 63 L 51
THURSDAY
H 64 L 53
FAST FASHION.................4
GRAPHIC STUDIO............8
LEGO MOVIE 2.................9
RELATIONSHIPS.............12
SAN DIEGO SPORTS......16RESLIFE
Lauren Burdsall
PAGE 4Greeks Gone Green, the group behind the project, hope the piece will raise student awareness of pollution.
BY  Tyler Faurot
News Editor BY  Rebecca Camacho
senior staff Wrter 
See PROTEST,  page 3UCSD’S NEXT 
TOP BATHROOM
Lifestyle, page 11
See MURAL,  page 3Rebecca Camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.edu
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS 4 By Michi Sora
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
JFK was a twunk.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 On Feb. 19, the University Centers Advisory 
Board voted to renew the lease for Blue Pepper 
Asian Cuisine in the Old Student Center. Blue 
Pepper’s lease was set to expire in September 
2019. The length of this renewal has yet to be decided.
A few weeks prior, a vote on whether or not 
to renew the restaurant’s lease was delayed in order for council members to collect feedback from their constituents. According to the reports from board members, some students in support of keeping Blue Pepper, most were indifferent, 
and a very minimal percentage of students were 
in favor of removing it.
Citing a need for more foot traffic in the Old 
Student Center, the board was evaluating whether 
Blue Pepper was meeting its expectations and 
generating enough interest in the Old Student Center area.
UCAB Vice Chair Joey Mendoza told the 
council on Feb. 5, “If you’re in [Earl] Warren 
[College], would you go out of your way to go 
across campus to get Ramen? Absolutely. Will [you] do it for sub-par Thai food? Absolutely not. ”
Pamela Frugé, the board’s Alumni 
Representative seemed to agree with Mendoza, stating, “[Blue Pepper] is just very mediocre. I go because it’s convenient not because it’s exciting. ”
A week later at the Feb. 12 meeting, the sentiments towards Blue Pepper were noticeably 
different.
The Sixth College representative Katya Garcia 
said her constituents thought Blue Pepper was 
“affordable, and has good portions,” as compared to Lemongrass Asian Plates in Price Center. 
The move to keep the restaurant was in part 
to prevent another vacancy at the Student Center in the midst of so much on-campus construction. 
Mendoza said that “construction is just a 
part of life now. This campus is growing and will continue to grow. The campus isn’t gonna stay this way forever, we need to start looking to accommodate the Torrey Pines Learning and Living Center by the time it comes in. ” 
Vice Chair Mendoza also pointed out at the 
Feb. 19 meeting that the vendors at the Living and Learning Center would be a new kind of competition, as they would be independent of 
both Housing Dining Hospitality and University 
Centers. 
“We’re not the only game in town anymore, ” 
Mendoza said.
Reilley Cannon, the Roger Revelle College 
representative, pointed out that the Torrey Pines Living and Learning Center wouldn’t open until 2021. 
“If we get rid of Blue Pepper, that’s a gap that 
won’t be filled by the time the new vendor comes in, ” Cannon said.
Daniel Howanec, one of the board’s students 
at large, argued that keeping Blue Pepper around until the opening of the Living and Learning Center could be advantageous.
“If we wait to renew this lease, we will know 
who our competitors are, ” Howanec said. “Soda and Swine should be reactivating that space, which should influence foot traffic at [the] Student Center. ”
The board also cited that Blue Pepper is one of 
the few places that is vegan-friendly.
“Lemongrass’ vegan options only replace meat 
items with tofu, ” Garcia said. “Blue Pepper actually 
has vegan and vegetarian-specific options. ”
The vote to renew the lease for Blue Pepper 
won 6–3 with one abstention vote. Members who 
voted in favor of keeping Blue Pepper included Mendoza, Garcia, Howanec and Jesus Fernandez. 
Harrison Oliphant, Achol Chowdhury, and 
Aditya Arora, representatives for Thurgood Marshall College, John Muir College and Warren respectively, all voted against it. 
The upcoming debate for the board will be 
about how long the renewal should last. University Centers Director Sharon Van Bruggen noted at the board’s Feb. 12 meeting that a standard lease is five years. Reilley Cannon argued that a two-
year renewal would give the board a year and a 
half after the Learning and Living Center opens to see how it impacts campus business.CAMPUS
University Centers Advisory Board Votes to Renew Lease for Blue Pepper in Student Center
The renewal’s length depends on how the board anticipates new competition from the Torrey Pines Living and Learning Center will a ffect the area.
BY  tyler faurot 
news editor
tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.org
JOIN  THE  UCSD  GUARDIAN!NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC 
ONLINE
6-Week Session  | May 20 -June 29
foothill.edu/secondspringTake a GE class online with Foothill College.
High quality. Quick. Convenient.
www.fafsa.govUse  UCSD school code 001317. .
Use  UCSD school code 001317. www.C alDreamAct.orgStuden ts who are U.S. C itizens or P erm anent R esidents
can su bmit the FAFSA on line at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible and who ar e not eligible to  submit a FAFSA,
can subm it the Calif ornia Dr eam Ac t Applica tion at:OR
Note:  You will be asked to provide 2017 Income Tax information when 
filing your 2019-20 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application.  FAFSA 
filers can use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool for faster and easier completion.
If you need assistance, please contact t he Financial Aid and Scholarships Off ice at ( 858) 534- 4480.REAPPLY  NOW
Priority Deadline for filing the FAFSA or
California Dream Act Application is MARCH 2, 2019FOR F INANCI AL AID 2019-20get single-use water bottles banned 
from campus by limiting the sale of bottles in campus markets and 
colleges. 
GGG applied a catalyst on top 
of the mural surface from PURETI 
Technology. PURETI was initially 
designed as a window cleaning 
product, but has expanded its use 
to an oxide-reducing solution spray 
in hotels, roadside billboards, and hospitals.
“This catalyst is activated by 
ultraviolet light and transforms 
water molecules into oxidizers that break apart pollution particles like nitrous oxide and nitrous dioxide, the primary by-products 
of combustion, ” Noel explained to 
the UCSD Guardian. “Through this reaction, the mural and catalyst spray will actively break down harmful pollutants from the UCSD 
environment. ” 
GGG says they also plan to 
conduct experiments to analyze the 
process over time in order to better 
understand the effectiveness of the 
catalyst in an outside setting. 
The printing of the mural and 
purchase of the PURETi spray 
cost around $1000. The University 
Centers Advisory Board offered to 
pay for the physical installation of 
the poster as well as the plaque that accompanies it.
Student artist Shashi Mostafa, 
whose photograph “Ride or Die” 
is featured in the mural, told the 
Guardian that the superimposed photos are intended to denote a choice. 
“It’s critical of our daily habits, ” 
Mostafa said. “The two things presented, the bike and the car, both do the same thing, essentially. They take you from one place to the next. 
It presents a choice and reflects our 
choices in our daily lives. It reminds 
people that we do have a choice in a 
lot of cases about making sustainable practices. ” 
Mostafa took the photo on film 
in North Park over the summer 
of 2018, during her time working on the Zero-Waste event put on by Housing Dining Hospitality Wellness and Engagement.
“ A lot of my art is social-justice 
based, ” Mostafa said. “ A lot of it is geared around making visual messages for people. ”
Mostafa’s photo was chosen from 
23 submissions to the Greeks Gone Green’s photo competition. 
Uday Govindswamy, Special 
Projects Director for Greeks Gone 
Green, told the Guardian, “We went 
with Shashi’s photo because it’s so 
outlandish and weird. We thought 
that it was a nice fit alongside a technology that is so revolutionary 
and new. ”
“Greeks Gone Green is hoping 
to rewrite our path going forward with the goal of putting together comprehensive projects that have a broad and visible impact on the 
UCSD community, ” Noel said. “We 
want to provide an outlet for the Greek community to be able to utilize to have a bigger impact on campus. Only two current executive 
board members of GGG will be at 
UCSD next year so as we welcome a new executive board and new GGG general body, we will have more 
concrete ideas for the future. ”
The mural is commissioned to 
stay up for at least a year. Testing and research will be conducted once every six months, in conjunction 
with chemistry labs on campus. The 
data from the tests will be posted on 
the Greeks Gone Green website. 
GOOD  LUCK  ON  
MIDTERMS!“Ride or Die” Will Collect Samples for Chemical Analysis that Will Be Published Periodically on Greeks Gone Green’s Website
▶ MURAL , from page 1
HDH Has Y et to Respond to the Activists’ Demands
▶ PROTEST , from page 1Tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.org
Andrew Ha  Ah1a@ucsd.edua Ban-Aid to the larger problem, ignoring the issue that students will continue to spend 30 percent or more 
of their monthly income on housing. 
In their powerpoint to ARCH, AHC stated that housing insecurities will decrease job performance, mental 
health, the well-being of families, 
and recruitment. 
Although no tangible result 
has come from their closed-door meeting, an ARCH Advisory 
Committee member did relay to 
AHC that the housing concerns were a recurring feature mentioned after discussions on budget proposals and 
proposed rent increases. AHC hopes 
to use media as a platform to explain the housing problem to graduate students who may be recruited later in the month. “We’re hoping that HDH sees how 
much we care about this and how important this is to us, and maybe 
they’ll take that into consideration, ” 
Aktar said. “It is important for them to see that we have legitimate concerns and grievances. If they 
treat graduate students like cash 
coins, HDH might be able to make money in the short-run, but it’ll be worse for all of us in the long run. ”4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
The undergraduates of UC San Diego are many things — raccoon-
lovers, pre-med students, Boba-fanatics, etc. However, after observing myself and other fellow Tritons, the one thing Tritons 
are often not is very large in stature. With so many students on campus wearing sizes smaller than a men’s size small, Triton Outfitters’ failure to offer smaller size options prevents customers from sporting its attire while also leaving potential profits on the table.
Currently, the smallest clothing size that Triton Outfitters offers is a men’s 
(“unisex”) small: chest size 34-36 inches and waist size 30-32 inches.Triton Outfitters also offers “unisex” sizing up to an XL. For a rather small female like myself, this means that if I purchased an item that somewhat fit from Triton Outfitters, it would be at least 4 inches too big in the chest and at least 6 inches too large in the waist. Clearly, even shrinking it would not make it fit appropriately. Additionally, most people are unlikely to spend at least $20 on a shirt that does not fit in a remotely flattering way. Triton Outfitters’ lack of sizing options leaves smaller individuals — disproportionately the many women on this campus who wear a women’s size small (about a men’s size extra small) — with the choice of having to forgo Triton Outfitters attire entirely or with having to invest in thigh-high boots to pull off an Ariana Grande look with their oversized T.O. gear. 
Because the iconic Triton Outfitters brand intends to “[embody] campus 
culture,” there is little financial logic in stopping at a man’s small. Not catering to individuals that wear below this size matters because this excludes a sizable portion of the campus from being able to wear the clothing to feel a sense of belonging to the community. Numerous psychological studies have shown that attire is closely connected to identity; it signals to others what group we are a part of and assists others in making judgments about us. Relatedly, our choice of dress also shapes our behavior. Hence, wearing Triton Outfitters gear allows individuals to partake in the “hip UCSD student identity” that Triton Outfitters exudes and markets. Overall, Triton Outfitters’ choice not to release a men’s extra-small/women’s small size leaves a substantial number of people on campus unable (or even wanting) to show their connection to campus and identity through its gear.
While it’s hard to say exactly how much of a demand there is for a men’s extra-small/women’s small at UCSD, several observations suggest offering the size should be financially salient enough for Triton Outfitters. For example, to investigate this, the UCSD Guardian put out a survey to UCSD undergraduates that garnered 69 respondents. Of the respondents, 24.6 percent of them said they prefer to wear a unisex/men’s XS or XXS. While this survey is not nearly as representative as it could be, it does corroborate general observations of the stature of individuals on campus as well as common sense; surely a sizable portion of young men and women wear a men’s extra-small or women’s small on such a large campus. 
At this point, readers may rightfully 
question why Triton Outfitters does not offer even more inclusive sizes than what I’ve advocated for here. After all, once one acknowledges the role that clothing plays in identity expression, formation, and UCSD campus culture, it’s difficult to condone Triton Outfitters’ limited sizing. Even with the addition of a “unisex” XS, many other students will still not fit the sizes offered. The excuses for Triton Outfitters to not offer more inclusive sizing become even more precarious 
considering that Triton Outfitters is funded and overseen by A.S. Council, an elected student body that runs on compulsory student fees and is meant to make all undergraduates feel connected to this campus. Unfortunately, real inclusive sizing will likely not happen soon because Triton Outfitters needs to make money. Offering a men’s XXS or a Men’s 2XL would not generate the same revenue as a men’s XS/women’s small would and therefore not financially justify offering it. 
Unfortunately for me, at the end of the day, the financial rationale 
makes sense: Triton Outfitters has an obligation to remain financially self-sustaining. Creating things that will not sell, and needing to be saved by A.S. Council, drains student financial resources that could go to more useful places. With these considerations in mind, Triton Outfitters should at least offer a men’s extra-small/women’s small option because it would likely justify its cost and let more individuals partake in the brand than are currently able to. At the same time, Triton Outfitters should continue trying to “break things better” to create a business model that allows them to be more inclusive, and hopefully soon, because your girl really wants to buy the Triton Sherpa in a size that fits.Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
Small Sizes are a Big Problem for Triton Outfitters
By Geena Roberts     staff writer
“...Triton Outfitters’ failure 
to offer smaller size options 
prevents customers from sporting 
its attire while also leaving 
potential profits on the table.”
Fast Fashion Folly: How In fluencers Propagate Unsustainable Consumerism
Social media influencer culture has slowly become one of the most 
pervasive forms of advertisement. There are multiple perspectives that one can take when analyzing the complexities of influencer culture. 
While they are all valid, one perspective that seems to go unnoticed is how influencer culture promotes unsustainability and unethical consumption. 
Beauty influencers depend solely on thriving consumer culture, saturating 
their feeds with yet another variation of the chunky sneakers and eyebrow gel. Their Instagram stories feature unboxing hauls of free clothes and makeup gifted to them by start-up brands, followed by a discount code with their names. I’ll admit, these girls are killing it and securing the bag along the way, but their livelihoods often depend on advertising useless or harmful products to an unsuspecting audience.
The fast fashion industry is bolstered by a growing influencer culture, in 
which social media celebrities collaborate with big fast fashion companies as “brand ambassadors” to somehow seamlessly intertwine these brands into their everyday lives. These fast fashion brands provide accessible garments, and with the help of online shopping, consumption is even easier. As a result, clothing production has doubled between 2000-2014, and the number of garments the average consumer purchases a year has increased by 60 percent. People want their clothing cheap and trendy, and they want it quick. 
However, trends die quickly and with that comes waste. Clothing 
produced by fast fashion brands are oftentimes made from cheap materials, like polyester and acrylic, and not built to last: The average American throws away 80 pounds of clothing every year. We’ve been conditioned to believe that buying a garment and wearing it once is justifiable. It’s not. Due to the growing demand in the fast fashion industry, we see a vast overproduction of clothing; for example, the Copenhagen Fashion Summit reports that fashion is responsible for 92 million tons of solid waste dumped in landfills each year. This cultural shift on how we consume clothing is leaving a huge mark on the planet. 
By Lauren  Burdsall     Contributing Writer
See FASHION, page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
The one mark that attracts consumers to fast fashion is its 
affordability. It should concern consumers, though, just how a 
garment can be that cheap. There are ethical implications with 
affordability. The majority of these garments are produced in 
countries like China, India, and Bangladesh, where workers undergo 
extremely poor work conditions. Over 50 percent of clothing 
manufacture workers are not paid minimum wage, and when they are, men are more likely to be paid minimum wage over women and children. Work conditions in sweatshops are destitute, and workers are exposed to high chances of injury and mistreatment. Think twice before falling for the affordable price tags. 
Now, where do social media influencers come into play here? 
Fast fashion brands work with fashion Instagrammers to promote their brands. As a result, these influencers’ feeds are saturated with posts featuring cheap, trendy clothing. Cheap, trendy clothing that they want you to buy. They normalize the idea that one should own hundreds of garments and that “outfit repeating” is a cardinal sin. This is the main issue: normalization. It has become normal to boast about monthly shopping “hauls.” It has become normal to throw away a garment because it ripped after being worn once. When looking at the environmental and ethical consequences, this is far from normal. 
Luckily, there are alternative solutions that one can partake in to 
become a more conscious consumer. One such alternative is thrift shopping. Try hitting up Friends Resale Shop, our very own campus thrift store, to find affordable and sustainable clothing. UC San Diego students can join multiple clothing resale pages on Facebook to buy and sell clothing from other students. There is also a growing flux of environmentally-conscious brands like Patagonia and Everlane that promote a transparent supply chain and ethical sourcing, along with using recycled soda bottles and other recycled materials to produce their fabrics. Sustainable consumption comes with knowledge and awareness. Put simply, though, just buy less and buy smart.
APPLY TO JOIN A.S. COUNCIL '19-'20 at as.ucsd.edu/elections
Applications due March 7, 12pm
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
for more information, contact aselections@ucsd.eduhatchyourplan
PROTECTION
By System 32
Lauren  Burdsall   lburdsal@ucsd.edu▶ FASHION , from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
The Bear Garden bears are everywhere. Sometimes they wear costumes; 
other times they can be seen playing sports. They are often stickers 
adorning the laptops and Hydro Flasks of UC San Diego students but sometimes appear on posters advertising school events. They seem to come out in fuller force any time a holiday or major campus function rolls around. They are always adorable.
The enduring popularity of the bears on campus is just one testament to 
the ubiquitous appeal of the designs coming out of the Associated Students Graphic Studio. 
Located directly above Burger King and behind the Center for Student 
Involvement desk on the third floor of Price Center, the Graphic Studio is quietly situated in the midst of student life but also slightly removed from it. The space it occupies once functioned as the campus poster room, stocked with paper, markers, and space for students to draw their posters by hand. Since then, the poster-making materials have been replaced by machines and ink, and have been consolidated into a small closet inside the studio. The rest of the poster room has been repurposed into several computer stations. Students can still make posters there but the process is a bit different now. 
The ASGS was founded in 2008 by Roger Revelle College alumna 
Melissa Ewart. An interdisciplinary computing and the arts major, Ewart,  who still serves on the staff as the manager, researched local universities that had similar studios before she set out to create ASGS at the behest of the Associated Students. The decision came as Associated Students set out to build up UCSD’s campus culture by promoting a unified brand to its students. However, they realized they would need some artistic guidance with what they hoped to accomplish. 
The Bear Garden bear is one of the 
results of this branding push. First drawn in 2008 by Jordan Ma, one of Ewart’s first designers, the new bear transformed an existing UCSD symbol into marketing material. Its current iteration, a product of designer Angela Nguyen’s imagination, gave the beloved symbol mass appeal. A fourth-year human biology major, Nguyen applied to be a graphic artist the summer before starting college and has been with the studio since. Known around the office for her “recognizably adorable graphics, ” Nguyen gave the bear cute and relevant themes. She has created the past several Bear Garden posters and bears, as well as the web materials, posters, and set-times for the 2018 Sun God Festival. 
“I’ve always loved design and cute illustrations … [at ASGS] I get to do 
what I love and work with people I love so I’m basically living the dream, ” Nguyen said. 
Associated Students also solicited Graphic Studio assistance in creating 
and selling original campus merchandise like apparel and accessories. In addition to supporting Associated Students in their rebranding of student life, the Graphic Studio would provide digital art services to student organizations that also wished to develop their branding. Because not all organizations had the resources and knowledge to handle all of the design and communications of logos, webpages, images, and apparel, the Graphic Studio was also conceived to meet those needs. 
One final way Associated Students hoped to increase students’ 
connection to UCSD was by updating the biggest student event of the year: Sun God Festival. They had lofty goals for the rapidly-growing music festival, including a more enhanced SGF brand, selling SGF merchandise, experience, themed decorations, posters, and banners, and fun new add-ons such as Sun God babies and the Fluffy character. They wanted SGF to have what Ewart called the “full package experience. ” Consequently, the first wave of graphic designers at ASGS was instrumental in laying down the foundations of the Sun God Festival that we know and cherish today — for example, when Ma began the Bear Garden bear, he also created Fluffy and the current Sun God logo. 
At its inception, ASGS employed two designers and a PR coordinator, 
all student positions with the exception of Ewart’s. Eventually, Ewart was joined by former colleague and John Muir College alum Alfredo Vilano (who was also an ICAM major) as senior designer. With two alumni spearheading the project, the Graphic Studio was and still is a completely Triton-run endeavor. 
As the campus and its community grew, the Graphic Studio grew with 
it, now boasting six artists and a webmaster. The apparel and accessories front really took off — in 2010, Associated Students and the Graphic Studio launched Triton Outfitters, a venue for selling merchandise designed exclusively by Graphic Studio artists to embody campus culture, and Made TO Order, a custom apparel service also powered by the graphic artists that is available to students and student organizations. 
Artists at the studio keep busy. In 
addition to SGF and Bear Garden, designers are tasked with drawing up promotional materials for ASCE events, A.S. elections, Hullabaloo, Triton Fest, Fall Y’all, and anything else with the Associated Students name on it. They also work directly with Made TO Order clients to create custom designs for student organizations seeking to make bulk branded merchandise. In short, the contributions ASGS student graphic artists have made to campus 
culture are not insignificant. 
With that in mind, it may come as a surprise that none of the artists have 
received formal training. 
“We are all self-taught; you start on GIMP or some other free [graphics 
editor] and just watch tutorials online, ” explained senior economics major Noah Estep, a graphic artist at ASGS and art director of Triton Outfitters. Nguyen also mentioned that she has been making drawings to post on her Tumblr page since high school.
“We’re here to help them as far as we can, technical-wise, but they have 
literally learned on the job. We give tips and tricks, but we’re not teachers. These are genuinely artistic, talented students, ” Vilano said. 
In fact, both past and present designers have come from a myriad 
of mostly design-unrelated backgrounds, including, but not limited to, cognitive science, biochemistry, literature, and economics. Graphic design  
Thank  You  for  Making  Art  with  Us: 
10  Years  of  A.S.  Graphic  Studio
Art’s not dead at UCSD — at least not as long as we care about stickers and t-shirts. Th e Guardian 
spoke to Associated Students Graphic Studio about their contributions to campus culture.
SeeGRAPHICS , page 7By Cailin  Liu       Staff writer
“For a school that is notorious for being 
science-focused, the success of the graphic 
studio is a reminder of art’ s application in 
daily life and that everyone, from Greek life 
to engineering organizations to sports teams, 
benefits from good graphic design.”FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG  & MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.orgFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduFor more info, contact npathuru@ucsd.edu. Come listen to seven inspiring faculty and student speakers 
from across campus discuss topics revolving around the theme, The Future Starts Now. This is the first event in a 
brand new series meant to engage and empower the student body to take action and create a positive impact on campus.March 5th, 7 PM - 9 PM
SSC Multipurpose Room
Free dinner includedTalks
The Future Starts Now 
 
may not have initially been their intended career path, but the studio was an 
opportunity for them to see what they could do with their creative side and hone their skills while developing a portfolio and belonging to a school community.
“It was hard finding a connection to campus life, but as I started assimilating into 
the ASGS family, it began feeling like home. I work with such amazing, talented people and learn so much from them every day, ” Nguyen said. 
ASGS alumni have gone on to design for companies such as Google, Disney, and 
Marvel. “It’s so cool that we’re providing an outlet for students who would never think about going into this field, ” Vilano said.
The value of the work done by the graphic studio is not lost on its artists either.“I always love seeing people on campus wear stuff I created. It makes me feel like 
it was worth it, ” Estep said.
For a school that is notorious for being science-focused, the success of the 
graphic studio is a reminder of art’s application in daily life and that everyone, from Greek life to engineering organizations to sports teams, benefits from good graphic design.
While the Graphic Studio does not actively advertise its services, its most recent 
project did bring some more recognition to its name. Last month, in conjunction with Triton Fest, the studio put on Make Art: A.S. Graphic Studio’s 10 Year Celebration. Make Art, an art installation that flooded Tritons’ Instagram feeds the whole weekend. The installation allowed students to walk through five rooms centered around Bear Garden bears, vintage Sun God Festival memorabilia, Fluffy, buttons, posters, candy, and more — a homage to ASGS highlights of the past decade. The celebration also included a Maker’s Row, where attendees could make customized t-shirts to be screen-printed on the spot, courtesy of Triton Outfitters, and received ASGS tote bags emblazoned with a message: “Thank you for making art with us!”
But it’s UCSD that should be thanking the Graphic Studio for making art for us 
over these past 10 years. 
When asked what she’s been most proud of since she started, Ewart said, “I’m 
most proud of seeing where everyone is now. It’s amazing the amount of talent that comes through and inspires us … And it’s always really nice to hear feedback from clients about the work students have created and about any impact we’ve had positively on the campus community. ” 
Ewart has no plans to slow down. Even when long-time ASGS residents like Estep 
and Nguyen graduate, the students in the Graphic Studio will continue to pour their creativity and talent into our school.
Cailin  Liu   lSanli@ucsd.edu
Custom tees available at Triton Out fitters’ booth during Make Art .
▶ GRAPHICS , from page 6A&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Darkly comic and trippy, “Russian Doll” tells an a ffecting story by bringing its own take to the concept of a never-ending time loop.
Netflix’s “Russian Doll” opens with a fiery 
redhead, Nadia Vulvokov (Natasha Lyonne), glaring at her reflection in a 
slick, modish bathroom. It’s her 36th birthday, but she’s not feeling festive at this soiree prepared 
by her friend, Maxine (Greta Lee). Normally, she 
would be reveling with drugs and alcohol; instead, she’s having a mid-life crisis, and it doesn’t help that her cat has gone missing either. So, she ditches the party and hooks up with a stranger, only to have her night permanently end when she gets struck by a car and immediately dies. Or so we are to believe. Magically, she is standing across the bathroom mirror in the midst of her birthday 
celebration, alive and well once again. 
At first, the show feels familiar to “Groundhog 
Day, ” as both share a similar idea of reliving the 
same doomed day until the curse is broken with a powerful life lesson. However, “Russian Doll” begins to show its true offbeat vibe and stinging comedy when Nadia involuntarily dies over and over again in some of the dumbest ways, such as falling down the same flight of stairs or through 
the same hole twice. Harry Nilsson’s “Gotta Get 
Up” is also played after her every revival, viciously etching the tune’s upbeat opening into every viewer’s brain. We start to wonder if Nadia is trapped in a twisted purgatory that gets a kick out of torturing her. However, as she gradually pieces her situation together, we learn that her cyclical fate is an opportunity to heal her own 
mental scars as well as another’s. This is when the 
series deviates into its own innovative narrative, proving that it isn’t a rehashed or simplified tale merely teaching life morals or manners. The story takes shape in portraying how the smallest amount of empathy and care for someone else’s self-destruction can steer one toward a path of salvation and self-betterment. 
Lyonne balances the role of Nadia with 
earnestness and comedy. For example, Nadia’s initial disbelief of this Byzantine situation is hilarious, as she questions her own sanity and blames Maxine for lacing her joint with an overstimulating drug. Later, she recedes to her nihilistic and cynical self, assuming that she’s eternally stuck in limbo. And finally, her soul-searching moments resonate the most. Lyonne’s performative usage of  a raspy, New 
Y ork accent, hunched-over body language, and 
burning cigarette in hand adds to her character’s cutthroat and snappy disposition. She brings Nadia to life, peeling away Nadia’s rough and tough countenance that acts as a mask for the character’s broken and bleeding insides.        
It’s also interesting to note that Nadia is a 
video game designer, which parallels her recursive 
situation; she is able to die and respawn in order 
to figure out this puzzling trial. Because she can countlessly rinse and repeat her death, the stakes initially don’t seem that high. However, the story plants an internal time limit; as Nadia keeps failing, things in her environment start to wither away and disappear like a computer glitch. The drama and peril of her predicament heightens, and it becomes unnerving yet thrilling to watch before 
it’s “game over” for her. Interestingly, it’s also as if 
her kismet has already been predetermined, like a video game character’s, forcing her to undergo this journey as if it were a mission in order to traverse her past trauma, mitigate another person’s misery, and ultimately come out on top. 
Each episode of “Russian Doll” is equally 
enthralling, and the episodes culminate to a satisfying finale. The mystery suspended around 
Nadia’s immortality is enough to keep viewers 
intrigued. However, when the plotline plays around with theories of existentialism and quantum-mechanical multiverses, the show truly starts to segue into an abstract and transcendental territory. It resembles an eerie and surreal fever dream as we watch Nadia face a nightmarish universe that works against her. The show swirls 
into a strange amalgam of thriller, fantasy, and 
sci-fi genre. At the same time, it grows into a deep and multi-layered story as we continue to unpack it, much like a Russian nesting doll.    
“Russian Doll” is an idiosyncratic and self-
contained show that explores the melancholic and imperfect aspects of the human condition. However, it is also introspective and hopeful, indicating that grief and desperation can 
detrimentally prevail. It is beautifully ironic that 
each time Nadia dies, a part of her comes alive as well, for she is able to find more clarity from within the clutter of her mind and heart. Just as the separate pieces of a matryoshka doll are encased together at the end, Nadia is able to unify herself as one whole figure again.
—  Ashley chen
Senior Staff Writer
TV   REVIEW
RussiaN  Doll
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIX
Created by   Natasha Lyonne, Leslye Headland, Amy Poehler
Starring  Natasha Lyonne, Greta Lee, Yul Vazquez, Charlie Barnett, Elizabeth Ashley
Premiered  2/1/2019 on NetflixCa-
“The Lego Movie 2” builds a sequel with the same genuine heart humor as its predecessor.
Yes, the first “Lego Movie” was excellent. 
Y es, it exceeded all expectations for what had seemed to clearly be a corporate 
cash grab meant to boost toy sales. Y es, it was a touching story about embracing childhood and fun that brought a tear to the eyes of anyone with 
a soul. So, the question is, did “The Lego Movie 
2” deliver the same? Is it possible to have a worthy successor to what was legitimately one of the best 
children’s movies of the last decade?  In short, yes, 
Lego did it again, everyone, and you can go see for yourself if you want, because that’s heartily 
recommended. But first, you can read on. That’s 
appreciated as well.
We rejoin our heroes in a very different 
situation than we found them in the last film. After the reunion between father and son, the 
boy’s little sister makes good on the newfound 
permission to play with the expansive Lego set. And so times change for our tiny heroes. Oh, 
how they change. Hellish invasions from above 
— in the form of cutesy toys — convert the formerly sleek Lego cityscape into a wasteland, fittingly named “ Apocalypseburg, ” and we learn that Emmet (Chris Pratt) and friends have 
spent the past five years dodging bright pink 
“alien” invasions. The characters have adjusted to their new surroundings, adopting attire and 
a new palate that would make the aesthetic of 
“Mad Max” proud. The outstanding exception is  Emmet, who is struggling to shake his signature 
feel-good attitude. This all changes, however, 
when Emmet’s buddies are whisked away for peace talks with the alien Queen Watevra 
W a’Nabi (Tiffany Haddish), forcing our intrepid 
protagonist to toughen up at last, travel to the far 
reaches of space, and team up with a Han Solo-
esque pilot (Chris Pratt) to save his friends and stop the prophesized apocalypse, known as “Our-
Mom-ageddon.”
With the fourth wall shattered by the previous 
film, “The Lego Movie 2” now has more space to play with the area between the imaginative 
universe and the realm of parents and children, allowing the movie to play with some more “Toy Story”-like qualities as the toys navigate their progression through an outside world. 
Simultaneously, we can see how the “high stakes” 
dynamics of the conflicts between figurines translate into reality, namely brother and sister 
bickering over stolen toys and the complications 
of their own relationship. Also, it’s a Lego movie, so in the style of the first, there’s a fun plot twist.
The animation is impressive as well. Not 
only because the CGI Legos look completely real — every scratch and mark of friction visible, 
as well as one character sporting “scars” in the 
form of typical toy wear-and-tear — but because 
of the creativity and impressive changeability 
they manage to bring to the bricks. Dust clouds and water flows despite being made of tiny 
squares, and one character can constantly change, 
moving in and out of many different forms with surprising fluidity.
Of course, as sequels go, it isn’t quite the 
same film as the original. “The Lego Movie 2” has a promotional number “Catchy Song” that doesn’t hold a candle to the furiously unshakeable “Everything is Awesome, ” and, tragically, this film 
doesn’t have a single on-screen Will Ferrell cameo. 
But, Ferrell aside, the spirit is still there, and it certainly does an admirable job of employing the 
same humor, heart, and message of forgiveness 
and love that the original did, making “The Lego Movie 2” a worthy successor to the Lego Movie 
title.  
A touching story about the complicated 
dynamics of family and the simple power of choosing joy even in the face of darkness, “The 
Lego Movie 2” lives up to its predecessor. Funny, 
fast paced, and well-conceived, it positions itself 
as one of this year’s “must-see” childhood classics.
—Chloe Esser
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
Lego movie 2: The Second Part
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Mike Mitchell 
Starring  Chris Pratt, Elizabeth Banks, Will Arnett, Ti ffany Haddish, Stephanie Beatriz
Release Date  February 8, 2019
Rated  PGCAA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
With already low expectations, “Happy Death Day 2U, ” the sequel to,“Happy Death Day, ” disappoints as its illogical premise and failed humor results 
in an overall subpar fi lm.
The film “Happy Death Day 2U, ” directed 
by Christopher Landon, follows the misadventures of Tree Gelbman (Jessica 
Rothe), an undergraduate sorority girl at Bayfield University. Tree finds herself looped 
into reliving the same day over and over, with 
each day inevitably resulting in her death, most commonly at the hands of a criminal in a baby mask. Mirroring the actions of the first film, Tree and her unlikely group of the most grossly stereotypical undergraduate “nerds” seek to resolve the unbreakable time loop created by her friend Ryan Phan (Phi Vu).
My expectations of the plot were low to 
begin with, but the ever-twisting developments sent me to a different level of wonder. Ryan and his colleagues, who while conducting a thesis project, miraculously create a device that is able to harness massive amounts of energy and somehow end up altering of reality. Y es, this is the same movie about the girl being killed over and over again by a guy in a baby mask. The plot intensifies as Ryan sends Tree into an alternate reality where 
everything seems to be just slightly different than 
the one she previously occupied.
 In one reality, Tree’s mother has passed 
away and she has found herself in a romantic relationship with Carter Davis (Israel Broussard), a member of the group of “nerds” who helped her catch her killer in the first film. In the other reality, where the movie takes place, she comes to realize that her mother is still alive, and is left with no memory of the previous years she spent with her. Also, Tree comes to realize that her boyfriend in the other reality, Carter, is dating Danielle, a 
sorority sister she detests. Typing this out even 
feels too absurd to be typing, and that reflects how I felt while watching the film.
 Ultimately, Tree realizes that she must 
stop the loop of her reliving the same day by fixing the time-looping device Ryan had constructed, which can only be done by correctly writing an algorithm that will close the loop. However, each time Tree is inevitably murdered, everyone but 
her is left with no memory of the day. With this 
knowledge, Tree somehow goes on to store mass amounts of sophisticated physics equations and opts to continually kill herself with the goal of fixing the machine. 
 It is here the film’s message finally 
shines through, and it is actually refreshing because it may be the only thing in the film that kind of makes sense. Tree has to decide if she will 
opt to remain in the reality she currently is in, 
with her mother alive but boyfriend unaware of their relationship, or be sent back to the reality where her mother has passed. After countless suicides provoking a few shallow laughs from the audience, Tree decides she will return to her original reality, coming to the realization that we must live for the future and not dwell on the woes of our past. 
 Surprisingly, my issues with the film 
did not necessarily lie with the message, which came across as wholesome and genuine. I simply 
could not buy into the countless amounts of 
leaps of faith its director, Christopher London, expected the audience to take for the development of the plot. There were no clear connections to be made and it gave the movie a sense of absurdity that would be found in something starring Adam Sandler rather than a film even attempting to call itself a thriller. It felt as if the film was being constructed as it was written, with each end being 
justified by a means that was thought of on set the 
day of filming. 
 The film, being a sequel, requires a 
rather high level of comprehension and retention from the first installment, which can be rather detrimental to an unfamiliar viewer. The only sort of background was provided through about a one minute, sped up, narration by Tree which came across as lazy and humorous to an extent. 
There were several moments where it felt as 
if there should be laughter; however, it is still unclear if this was intended by the writers. The movie showed as a self-aware film that was supposed to be vastly absurd, similar to the style of “Scary Movie 2, ” but being listed as a thriller, I do not believe that was the end goal. Despite the negatives, there were a few 
quality aspects of the film. A glimmer of hope shone through for the film through the two leads, Jessica Rothe and Israel Broussard, who I believe did a commendable job giving life to two of the 
most boring characters in cinematic history. The 
characters were written to fit molds that have been done hundreds of times — the blonde and not very smart sorority girl and the quirky, nerdy, awkward and pale physics major. However, both Rothe and Broussard were able to give the characters a bit of life via strong personalities and character with each line delivered. 
 As a whole, the film is not one I 
would recommend to anyone with intentions of watching a piece of cinema that is well-developed and structured. However, if anyone wishes to watch an amusing and absurd take on college relationships and travel between alternate realities, be my guest. From the same studio that brought audiences, “Insidious, ” “Halloween, ” and “Get Out, ” it is best to not expect any of what those films produced from “Happy Death 
Day 2U. ” Sometimes sequels are forced, and 
sometimes they are circles being forced into square spaces — this is the latter.
— Matthew Rudas
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
HAPPy death da y 2u
PHOTO COURTESY OF UNIVERSAL PICTURES
Directed by   Christopher Landon 
Starring  Jessica Rothe, Israel Broussard
Release Date  February 13, 2019
Rated  PG-13CC-
Trinh Mai creates a powerful monument to the lasting e ffects of war and diaspora.
It’s been more than 40 years after the formal declaration 
that ended the Vietnam War, but for the millions of mainland 
Vietnamese and diaspora communities, that watershed moment 
of modern global conflict is far from over. In her exhibit “That 
We Should Be Heirs, ” California-based artist Trinh Mai, the daughter of Vietnamese refugees, attempts to reconcile the transcendence of war across space and time, arguing that the 
war has materialized beyond militarized violence and can be 
seen in the traumas inherited from refugee parents. For Mai and millions of other refugee children, the experiences of war are not always explicitly told to them by their parents but are rather internalized and picked up upon throughout their lives. 
In a poignant artistic move, Mai invites viewers to engage in 
a process of collective recognition and burial, as a means to acknowledge our responsibilities as heirs to our parents’ grief and find ways to promote communal healing and strength.
As the titular centerpiece of the exhibit, “That We Should 
Be Heirs” invites visitors to write their thoughts and fears on small sheets of paper. These thoughts remain anonymous and unread, folded into tiny scrolls that are tucked into a number of pockets (graves for the burial of our fears and burdens) that 
have been carved out of the gallery wall. Mai’s artistic vision is 
rooted in the Vietnamese belief “that if the dead are not given a proper burial, their souls cannot rest. ” For children of refugees, Mai’s installation, which includes personal letters inherited 
from her own grandmother, prompts an introspection into our 
own troubled relationships to our familial and national homes, and lifts the burdens of intergenerational trauma. Mai does not intend for the installation to exclusively be a refugee space but rather to be an open and compassionate space for all patrons to engage in a collective recognition of communal pain. Two additional interactive pieces, titled “Fear Not. ” and “Together” invite patrons to participate in erasing the word “fear, ” which is 
etched in with graphite on a 42-by-72 paper canvas and freely 
interacts in the creation of the word “together” on a 42-by-96 canvas. Together, these works are representative of Mai’s aim to collectively redress our fears. However, that the installation 
openly invites visitors without direct refugee experience to 
participate may produce a certain anthropological gaze that disrupts the power of healing in what could be a unique refugee space. Not to any fault of Mai, it should be noted that the San Diego Art Institute is a bourgeois contemporary art space whose 
patrons are largely white. As exceptional as Mai’s installation is, 
it should be asked whether this openness may sterilize the focus on the refugee subject.
Mai’s installation features a variety of non-interactive pieces 
depicting refugee experiences and the contested relationships that second-generation children have with their homelands. One of the first pieces in the exhibit, titled “For We are Called to Freedom, ” features a flock of white birds flying mid-air, with small red crosshairs stitched onto each bird, on two 42-by-
60 and 42-by-50 paper canvasses. Mai uses the Vietnamese 
greenfinch and American goldfinch as symbols of cultural confluence, evoking the two halves of the Vietnamese American identity, as well as the quest for freedom that saturates the 
discourse on refugee flight. For Mai, the deliberate placing 
of crosshairs on the birds’ hearts represents the targeting of refugees on both Vietnamese and American fronts — from the threat of war at home to white supremacist violence abroad — as well as a point of convergence “at which we can meet to discuss the changes that serve the betterment of humanity. ” Mai’s hand in her use of charcoal is subtly impeccable, with the gallery lighting rendering the birds almost invisible on the white canvas. 
Here, Mai demands a heightened interaction with the piece that 
reveals that the birds are in fact fading upwards into whiteness, struggling for freedom. Mai challenges ubiquitous narratives of U.S. exceptionalism in which America is a site of freedom 
that is always aspired towards. Her painting reminds us of the 
racialized violence that many refugees were met within the U.S., as well as the pertinent threat of deportation that thousands of refugees are facing under the current administration. 
Trinh Mai’s “Heirs” is altogether a stunning installation in 
contemporary refugee art. Mai’s work poignantly touches on the unique experiences of second-generation refugee children, inspiring a process of introspection and healing that is at once moving and empowering. While the politics of art distribution 
and accessibility may dislodge some of the power inherent in the 
exhibit’s confrontation of fear, “Heirs” is nonetheless a unique and brilliant work that is deeply personal and rich in cultural motifs. 
“That W e Should Be Heirs” opened at the San Diego Art 
Institute on Feb. 16 and will continue to be shown until March 31. 
— Justin  nguyen 
Senior Staff Writer
That  we  should  be  heirsPHOTO COURTESY OF TRINH MAI10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
TRITON OUTFIT TERS
WINTER // 2019SAN DIEGO, CA
TO.UCSD.EDUThe past few weeks have been full of rain, but the arrival of March should hopefully 
bring some more sun to San Diego. Start spring off on the right foot by enjoying the fresh 
air and heading out to some local events. 
Wish Dr. Seuss a happy 115th birthday with a celebration at Geisel Library on March 
1. Grab some free cake, play carnival games, and listen to a reading of “Happy Birthday To 
You!” This day is also National Read Across America Day — bring a new or gently used 
book to donate to the Friends of the San Diego Public Library. 
Also on March 1, Carlsbad’s famous Flower Fields  open for the season! For a few 
weeks each year, thousands of colorful ranunculus flowers bloom and bring the Carlsbad 
Ranch to life. Other flower exhibits, fresh strawberries, tractor rides, mazes, and, of course, picture-taking areas for that perfect Instagram post, will also be on display. 
Tickets are a bit pricey at $18, but everyone should experience this local favorite at least 
once. 
Hit the streets in your boxers or briefs at the San Diego Undy RunWalk . On March 2, 
participate in a 5k or one-mile fun run in Mission Bay Park to raise awareness and fund 
research for the Colon Cancer Alliance. All participants receive a pair of the Alliance’s 
infamous boxer shorts with registration.
March 5 is National Pancake Day , and there’s no better place to celebrate it at than 
Snooze, where 100 percent of pancake sales will go back to local gardens. At the La Jolla location, choose from over six different kinds of pancakes, including Strawberry Fields Forever and King Cake, and support the Torrey Pines Elementary School Foundation’s Garden in the process. 
On March 9 and 10, head down to the Balboa Park Activity Center for their 92nd 
Annual Rummage Sale . Branded as the largest thrift, garage, and estate sale in Southern 
California, vendors will be selling new and gently-used jewelry, art, antiques, collectibles, books, clothing, and more. All proceeds go back to Balboa Park and community non-
profits, but make sure to get there early for the best chance of finding something you’ll 
like.
Feeling lucky? Head to the St. Patrick’s Day Parade and Irish Festival  in downtown 
San Diego on March 16. See performances from dance groups and Irish folk singers, eat at the Celtic Food Village, and drink at the Beer Garden — just make sure to wear green 
so you don’t get pinched!
That night, the Lantern Street Fest  will light up the Liberty Station sky. Entry includes 
an eco-friendly LED lantern that you can decorate and take home after the event, and 
access to food trucks and live performances by Gothic Topic, Bellsaint, and Pretty Polly. 
Also this month, catch the tail end of whale watching season. Birch Aquarium has 
two daily cruises that depart from Downtown San Diego, but keep a lookout for student 
organizations that sometimes offer reduced prices. If you’ d prefer to stay on land, March 
is also time for the annual grunion run. Thousands of tiny silvery fish arrive on the beach, and La Jolla Shores is one of the best places to see them.P eeks and 
Previews:
March
By ANNIKA  OLIVES        Lifestyle EditorLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Ah, restrooms. We all use them, but how much do we enjoy the experience? Nine times out 
of ten, we settle for less in terms of toilet quality, and I’m not going to stand for it any longer. In my humble opinion, we shouldn’t be afraid of demanding the best bathroom experience 
possible. I mean, I know I’m worth it, especially considering how often I frequent the various 
restrooms on campus. So, as my way of helping the general populace, I have compiled the who’s who of UCSD’s best and worst toilets. In the end, only one can be crowned UCSD’s next top bathroom! 
Yor k  Ha l l  vs .  G a lbr ait h  Ha l l
In an epic faceoff between the restrooms of Revelle College, who will emerge victorious? In this corner is York Hall, whose men’s and women’s bathrooms are on literal opposite sides of the building. And not only that, the amount of stalls in York (a whopping two) is quite pitiful. 
As for Galbraith Hall, the newly renovated structure has spacious and pristine restrooms 
available for our use. The quiet study room even has gender-neutral, single stall restrooms! Needless to say, Galbraith slaughters York any day.
Old Student Center vs. Mandeville Hall
Contrary to its rustic appearance, the Old Student Center’s restrooms are surprisingly above par. Both the women’s room near Taco Villa and the gender-neutral stall by Mandeville Coffee Cart have admittedly impressed my cynical heart, though I witnessed quite a mess in the gender-neutral bathroom once. However, the restroom within Mandeville proper is not 
nearly as stunning. One time, a stall door fell off its hinges as I tried to innocently leave and 
wash my hands, hitting my foot in the process. Overall, the Old Student Center trumps its dumpy neighbor, Mandeville.
Peterson Hall vs. McGill Hall
This matchup doesn’t spark as much of a competition, since I consider them both to be below average. Even so, I think Peterson is the lesser of two evils here. During passing periods between classes, the line in Peterson’s restrooms can be killer, causing me to wait five or more minutes; while five minutes doesn’t sound like a long time, it feels like an eternity when you 
really have to go. McGill, on the other hand, feels much more run-down. Half of the stalls 
don’t even have a working lock, and I’m always worried I’ll hit someone with the door as I go in. Let me just say that McGill’s restroom reminds me of a small jail cell, which is not something I adore while doing my business. Both McGill and Peterson deeply disappoint me.
Geisel: Seuss Room vs Second Floor East
When in Geisel, the debate over the best restroom centers around one main factor: volume of people. For example, the restrooms by the Seuss Room and Second Floor East are similar in size, amount of stalls, and cleanliness. The one thing that makes a difference happens to be the crowdedness factor. In my experience, the Seuss Room hosts much less foot traffic than any other area of the second floor, its restroom seldom having 
any sort of line. If I’m ever feeling too lazy to ascend to a higher floor, I know I can trust the Seuss Room to give me an adequate bathroom experience.
Price Center vs. Center Hall
When it comes to these two, there’s almost no contest; we all know that Center Hall has some of the most inconveniently placed restrooms on campus, rivalling even York. 
During the times I’ve had lectures in Center 101, getting to the bathroom has historically been a nightmare. Why they built the largest lecture hall and the restrooms on complete opposite sides of the building is entirely beyond me. So, if I’m ever feeling fed up with Center Hall, I usually find refuge in Price Center, especially on the second floor. Those bathrooms are some of the cleanest I’ve found on campus, and I’ve never had to wait in line up there. All in all, I’ d pick PC over Center any day.
Crowning the Winner
I have ten beautiful restrooms standing here before me, but only one of them can become UCSD’s next top bathroom. Though the competition was fierce, I have to crown a winner. In the end, I’ d have to say that Galbraith Hall came out on top. Those restrooms are clean, spacious, and aesthetically pleasing; plus, a gender-neutral option is offered, and the main restroom has the good kind of hand dryers. What’s not to love?
Well, that’s all for now! Catch us on the next season of “UCSD’s Next Top Bathroom: The Redemption,” offered exclusively by the Guardian. Toodles!Who Will Be Crowned UCSD's 
Next Top Bathroom?
By Jade  Hookham       Staff Writer
Galbraith bathrooms: user-tested, user-approvedPHOTO COURTESY OF TYLER FAUROT12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  2 5 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
In the famous rom-com “How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days, ” the female love interest 
gives up her future career as a journalist to stay in New York and remain in a 
relationship with the man of her dreams. In “The Proposal, ” the male love interest 
marries the female love interest in order to keep her from being deported just because 
he wants to date her. In both movies, someone in a romantic relationship is making 
a huge personal sacrifice to stay with the “love of their life. ” We are often told that putting someone before ourselves is the true meaning of love, but where does one draw the line?
In school, we are often taught how to pass college writing programs and solve math 
problems, but we are never really taught how to seek healthy relationships. If we’re never been exposed to a healthy relationship at home, this task is that much more difficult. I found myself in a codependent relationship this year, and while it is often 
seen as “cute” to have a guy put a girl before himself, it is quite a different story in real 
life. Since this relationship ended, I began to do my own research on codependent relationships, and was surprised at all of the information I found.
What is a codependent relationship?
A codependent relationship can take many shapes and forms, but the basic gist is 
that the relationship begins to resemble an addiction. The people involved cannot live without each other and often their only sense of identity comes from the relationship and the moods of their partner. Codependent relationships also include 
those that are one-sided or abusive (either physically or emotionally). Mental Health 
America considers codependency a disorder that is learned from dysfunctional family dynamics. 
Signs you are in a codependent relationship:
While there are many signs of a codependent relationship (which differ depending on 
the person and their own trauma), here are a few key warnings to look out for: - One partner wants to be the caretaker to someone who needs “rescuing”  - One or both parties often put each other above themselves in unhealthy ways 
 - One partner does anything to please their partner
 - One or both partners cannot express their own wants and needs in a relationship  - May not get happiness from anything else other than their romantic relationship - Moods rely entirely on how their partner is feeling - Maintenance of the relationship is preventing one from participating in their own hobbies and interests
 - Low self-esteem
 - The relationship is a rebound relationship
Advice if you are in a codependent relationship:
If you have a lot of the qualities that make up a codependent relationship, or if you 
are in a relationship with someone who seems to exhibit the signs of a codependent, consider going to therapy or a support group in order to create a healthy relationship 
again. One of my biggest regrets in my own codependent relationship was not doing 
my research and seeking help in dealing with someone who was more predisposed to having this kind of unhealthy relationship. It cannot hurt to try and reach out and have discussions about this with your partner as well. They may not realize that 
they are exhibiting these qualities, and the best way to get through it could be open 
communication and a willingness to set boundaries for both parties. If this does not work, the only solution would be to terminate the relationship and focus on yourself and your past trauma to keep you from entering a codependent relationship again. In the end, codependent relationships are not healthy and should be worked on in some 
way, whether that be through therapy or through breaking up the relationship.
Conclusion:
When my ex broke up with me, I was constantly worried for his future relationships, 
and it took me a long time to get used to the idea that this was simply not (and never 
was) my own problem. While therapy and support groups can help you maintain a healthy relationship despite the trauma of the past, it is important to remember that if your partner is not willing to get the help they need, it is not your job to fix them. Knowing that I played a role in my codependent relationship too, I have since worked 
through my own issues and have begun going to therapy. This experience has allowed 
me to recognize what codependent relationships were, and being aware of these red flags will help me avoid these unhealthy relationships. Codependent relationships don’t have to be forever, and like me, you can get through it, too!Beware Codependent Relationships
By Samirah  Martinez       Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
HABIB KOIT & BASSEKOU KOUYATE Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 25 - MAR 3
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
JUKE JAM TIMY DESK TUESDAYS - 
WOMEN'S CENTER LIVING ROOM
Join us at the Women's Center as we celebrate 
Black artists and bring visibility to the healing power of song, spirit of soul, and expressive power of poetry with NPR's Tiny Desk Concerts.
4:30pm
THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD, AUTHOR 
TALK AND BOOK SIGNING – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
In his new book, The Scientific Method: 
Reflections from a Practitioner, theoretical physicist Massimiliano Di Ventra discusses what type of information science can provide of the natural world, and how scientists go about investigating it. In this talk, Di Ventra will explain the scientific methodology and clarify the limits of science and the errors one makes when abusing its method in contexts that are not scientific. He's the author of more than 200 scientific publications, three textbooks, and holds four U.S. patents. In 2018, Di Ventra was named one of the most influential scientific minds in his field. A book signing will follow the talk; copies of the book will be available for purchase from the UC San Diego Bookstore. 
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS HABIB KOIT 
& BASSEKOU KOUYATE - PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
One of Africas most recognized musicians, Malis 
pop icon Habib Koite has a deep and varied musical vocabulary, blending Afro-pop with jazz, rock, and even classical. Koite is joined by Bassekou Kouyate, Malian musician and master of the ngoni, a traditional African lute. Time Out says, Ngoni virtuoso Bassekou Kouyate can make notes bend like light rays in the desert heat.
6:30pm
BLACK HISTORY MONTH: IF BEALE 
STREET COULD TALK - PRICE 
CENTER THEATER
This film is based on the novel by James 
Baldwin. If Beale Street Could Talk is a timeless and moving love story of both a couple's unbreakable bond and the African-American family's empowering embrace, as told through the eyes of 19-year-old Tish Rivers. Doors: 6:30PM Show: 7:00PM. FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. Watch the trailer here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQXSforT_qQ. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS EPHRAT 
ASHERIE DANCE - BALBOA 
THEATRE
Dedicated to revealing and exploring the inherent 
complexities of street and social dance forms, Ephrat Asherie Dance creates original contemporary work that straddles dance and theater. EAD makes its West Coast debut with "Odeon," an original dance work for seven dancers and four musicians. Odeon is set to the music of Brazilian composer Ernesto Nazareth, known for mixing early 20th-century romantic music with samba and other popular Afro-Brazilian rhythms. The piece delves into what happens when you bring together the extended family of street and club dances, remix them, pick them apart, and challenge them to inhabit unfamiliar choreographic contexts.TUE2.26
THU2.28MON2.25
10am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays can be stressful, so start your week on a 
high note with FREE tea and snacks! Come 
destress with University Centers EVERY MONDAY 
this winter quarter! #DestressMonday. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://www.facebook.com/events/230521667893
775/?active_tab=about
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based on 
first come, first serve. Questions? Contact the 
zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
12pm
RECLAIM! REMAIN! REBUILD! 
EXHIBITION – UC SAN DIEGO 
UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY - 
MANDEVILLE CENTER
Reclaim! Remain! Rebuild! Posters on Affordable 
Housing, Gentrification & Resistance. The 
University Art Gallery - Mandeville Center. Gallery 
Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays 12 4 p.m. and 
Tuesdays and Fridays 2 6 p.m. Contact 
iah@ucsd.edu for more information about this 
exhibition. 
1pm
ILEAD WEEK 8- BEAR ROOM, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
Learn about student leadership, student 
organizations, leadership styles, and diversity, all 
in the context of comic books and superheroes!
12pm
DR. SEUSS'S 115TH BIRTHDAY 
CELEBRATION - GEISEL LIBRARY
Join the UC San Diego Library for the celebration 
of Dr. Seuss's 115th Birthday! The Seuss-tacular birthday celebration will be hosted by the University Librarian Erik Mitchell. Birthday festivities include a giant inflatable Cat in the Hat, free cake, and Seussian musical entertainment by The Teeny Tiny Pit Orchestra, directed by the Librarys Scott Paulson. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu
 
4pm
CROSS- WIRED– CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER, EXPERIMENTAL 
THEATER
Program information to be announced. Contact: 
publicity@music.ucsd.edu
pm
RED FISH BLUE FISH: XENAKIS' 
PERSEPHASSA – CONRAD PREBYS 
MUSIC CENTER
Persephassa (1969) is the first of Xenakis' 
innovative and ambitious works for percussion ensemble. The title refers to the goddess Persephone, "the personification of telluric forces and of transmutations of life." The piece was commissioned for the first-ever Shiraz Festival (organized by the Empress of Iran), held at the historic desert site of Persepolis -- an awesome and altogether fitting setting for such a powerful work.FRI3.01
9am
VISUAL ARTS GRADUATE STUDENT 
OPEN STUDIOS & PHD 
SYMPOSIUM – VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY
12th Annual Visual Arts PhD SYMPOSIUM. 9 
a.m. - 4:45 p.m., SME 149, Structural & Materials Engineering Bldg. Toward (In)Visibility: Space, Temporality, and Voice. 2019 Graduate OPEN STUDIOS. 3 p.m. - 6 p.m., Visual Arts Facility. Open Studios will feature over 40 MFA & PhD artists' open studios, exhibitions, screenings, and publications produced in the Department of Visual Arts. The artists will be present in their studios throughout the afternoon and excited to talk about and share their work with you. The evening will close with a performance in the Performance Space, VAF 306, starting at 6 p.m.SAT3.02WED2.27PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
12pm
MOMENTUM: VENDOR FAIR & 
AFTER PARTY – VENDOR FAIR @ PC 
BALLROOM WEST, AFTER PARTY @ THE LOFT
University Centers Presents: Momentum. Vendor 
Fair: PC Ballroom West. Event: 12PM - 4PM
FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. After Party: The 
Loft. Event: 7PM - 10:30PM. GA Price: $5. 
Momentum unifies the avenues of streetwear 
fashion, visual art, and music within the San 
Diego scene, aiming to highlight and develop the creative community both on-campus and 
throughout the city. A combination of student 
vendors and local San Diego businesses will 
have their products available for purchase in 
Price Center Ballroom West, followed by a DJ 
after party celebration at The Loft. Momentum 
After Party Lineup: Noodles, Mia Carucci, VII. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK – 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn more about what makes you most stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
7pm
WEDS@7 STEVEN SCHICK, SOLO 
PERCUSSION - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Percussionist, conductor, and author Steven 
Schick was born in Iowa and raised in a farming family. For forty years he has championed contemporary music by commissioning or premiering more than one hundred-fifty new works. Schick is music director of the La Jolla Symphony and Chorus and artistic director of the San Francisco Contemporary Music Players. He was music director of the 2015 Ojai Festival. He maintains a lively schedule of guest conducting including recent appearances with the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra, Ensemble Modern and the Asko/Schnberg Ensemble. Schick is Distinguished Professor of Music and holds the Reed Family Presidential Chair at the University of California, San Diego. Contact: boxoffice@music.ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
CANDY
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Speed of rotation measurer, briefly
5. Gather10. Splinter group
14. Buck attachment
15. International court site (with ‘’The’’)
16. Barre room bend17. Coven participants18. Apple vis-a-vis apple pie
20. Parent’s admonishment, Part 1
22. Spuds
23. 1-Across reading24. Puddy, to Tweety26. Admonishment, Part 2
27. Jungle squeezer
29. Kind of coffee
31. Part of a litter32. Like Thurston Howell III33. Admonishment, Part 3
37. Staff signs
39. Anti vote
40. Window divisions41. G-man42. Admonishment, Part 447. Indiana Jones quest48. Biblical priest50. Thumbs-up51. End of the admonishment55. One who lays waste, e.g.56. Source of indigo57. Egyptian goddess of fertility58. Observe Yom Kippur59. Leprechaun’s land60. Mark permanently61. Plains shelter62. Wine sedimentDOWN
1. Bora Bora neighbor2. Former Mideast leader3. Start of Descartes’ phrase
4. Auberge
5. Rizzuto and Collins
6. Come down7. Reminiscent of meringue8. Shirley’s ‘’Terms of Endearment’’ role
9. Get ready to drive
10. Quick trip
11. Party’s focus12. Film buff (Var.)13. Hanoi holiday
19. Anno follower
21. California’s Fort ___
25. ‘’And crown ___ good ... ’’27. Word before steer or rap28. Speak one’s mind
30. Friend of Pooh
31. Step in ballet
32. Stallone, affectionately33. Singer ‘’Weird Al’’34. Mine find35. Angers36. Youngster37. Treadmill site38. Least malleable41. Concentrate one’s attention42. Mao ___-tung43. State created in 194844. Blue guy of ‘’Yellow Submarine’’45. Whole46. Source of ancient depictions of kings 
and gods
49. Loosed the dog on50. See eye to eye52. ‘’A Beautiful Mind’’ subject53. At the highest point54. No longer there55. It may be castCARS
Used 2016 Honda Civic EX-L4D Sedan 
in San Diego, CA. Features: Reclining Heated Front Bucket Seats,Leather Seat Trim,Radio: 180-Watt AM/FM/HD/SiriusXM Audio System,4-Wheel Disc Brakes,Air conditioned,Electronic Stability Control,Front Bucket Seats,Front Center Armrest, Leather Shift Knob,Spoiler,Tachometer...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
New 2019 Subaru Ascent Limited 4D 
Sport Utility in San Diego, CA. Features: Axle Ratio: 4.44, 20 Alloy rims, Heated Front Bucket Seats, Perforated Leather-Trimmed Upholstery, Radio: Subaru STARLINK 8.0 Multimedia Plus System, Traction control, Driving computer, Variably intermittent windshield wip -
ers, Auto-dimming Rear-View mirror, Compass, Am fm radio: SiriusXM….ucs-dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Used 2010 Toyota Tundra Grade 4D 
Double Cab in San Diego, CA. Features: 3.909 Axle Ratio, 18 x 8J Steel Wheels, 3-Passenger Front Bench Seat, Fabric Seat Trim, AM/FM/CD/MP3 Audio, Air conditioned,Electronic Stability Control, Tachometer, Voltmeter, ANTILOCKING BRAKES brakes, Am fm stereo...ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
BIKES
Nirve 20’’ bmx bike/super clean/tuned excellent in San Diego, CA. Up for sale is a rebuilt and very clean 20” Nirve bmx bike. The bicycle has been completely rebuilt with fresh Maxima grease, with some upgraded parts.Such as the new Wellgo chrome pedals, new brake cable, new grips, chain tension-er, new chain, etc. This bike is best suited as a start up bike, for a rider that is between 4’ and 5’ tall, however I’m 5’10” and the bike is still fun to ride around the streets...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Women: Blue/Silver OCR 2 Compact 
Road Bike in excellent condition in San Diego, CA. Women’s -size small- road bike which comes with a brand-new Tule Bike rack for two bikes, a helmet, bike pump, tools for changing tires,etc. Bike has new tires, has recently been tuned up and is ready to roll...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
52cm Centurion “Le Mans RS” , freshly 
tuned in San Diego, CA. 52 cm (c-c) Centurion ‘Le Mans RS’ twelve speed, now available! Tange two Cr-Mo lugged steel frame, and Mangaloy fork. 27” alloy Araya wheelset w/Suzue hubs. SunTour Cyclone derailleur and shifters, Dia-Compe brakes, and Sugino cranks. 1 of the best exam...ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
HOUSING
BLVD63 - Currently listed pricing is for August 23rd, 2019 - July 31st, 2020. Limited Availability for 2018-19 - Please contact a Leasing Professional for details and specials! Discover a relaxed So-Cal vibe apartment with an urban twist-where beach style collides with bou -levard attitude, all in the SDSU area... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
3036 Goldsmith St. $875 - Bright room 
available in luxurious Point Loma Mansion! - Bright room available in luxu -
rious Point Loma Mansion! Your jaw will drop when you see this gorgeous Point Loma home. Originally build in 1904 by the famous Architect Don Dryden, this one-of-a-kind home boasts nearly 100 windows so light is ample...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2870 4th Ave. $2825-$4100 - Modern 
1-Bed/1-Bath Bankers Hill Apartment with Superb Views - This modern one-bedroom/one-bathroom apartment, located on the top floor, features a 125-square-foot balcony with superb views of Point Loma/Sunset Cliffs, the Pacific Ocean, Pacific Beach/La Jolla, Balboa Park, and San Diego mountains...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2019
After a promising 7–0 start to the 
season, the No. 14 UC San Diego 
Tritons dropped 4 in a row including 
being no-hit in a defeat against 
the California State Polytechnic University Pomona Broncos last 
Friday night. However, on  Saturday, 
Feb. 23, the Tritons took a pair of 
wins from the Broncos, 6–0 in the 
early game and 9–2 later on. 
Heading into Saturday, the 
Tritons had been unable to find 
the offensive success that powered 
them to the NCAA Tournament just 
a year ago. In the o ff-season, they 
lost four players who were dra fted 
in the MLB, including unanimous All American Zander Clarke. The 
effects of the team readjusting to 
these changes have been visible as 
the Tritons only mustered 6 runs in their last four games before Saturday’s 15-run outburst. 
Following a series split against 
No. 27 California State University, Monterey Bay Mustangs, UCSD 
faced Cal Poly Pomona on the 
road last Thursday for Game 1 of a 
4-game series. The Tritons ended up 
losing the game 5–2, but they had 
their chances throughout. 
The game started out slow as 
neither team did any damage until 
the bottom of the third inning when 
the Mustangs struck first with two 
off-singles and a wild pitch, giving 
them a 1–0 lead. By the fifth inning, 
the score was 2–0 Mustangs, and the Tritons needed to respond. Redshirt 
sophomore Brandon Stewart did just that as he started o ff the inning with 
a screaming triple that found the left-center gap. However, the next 
two batters struck out back-to-back. During their stretch of losses, the Tritons lacked situational hitting. With less than 2 outs, just a flyball or 
ground ball by either batter would have finished the job and knocked 
Stewart home. Instead, UCSD was 
very fortunate that Cal Poly Pomona 
starting pitcher Troy Bethell spiked 
a wild pitch. This allowed Stewart to 
score, keeping it a one-run game. 
The Tritons had another key 
chance to score in the top of the eighth inning, now down 4–1, as 
the Broncos pitchers handed out 
four walks and a hit batsman. Yet 
the Tritons were again unable to 
capitalize and get a timely hit. The 
1 run they did manage to score — a bases-loaded walk drawn by redshirt 
junior Steven Schuknecht — would be the Tritons’ last, as they could not 
overcome the Broncos’ collective 
pitching performance of 13 batters 
on the night. The Tritons lost this 
one by a final score of 5–2 due to their o ffensive woes — something 
that would continue into the next game.
After a dismal performance 
just the day before, things became significantly worse for the Tritons 
in their second game againt the Broncos, as they were silenced at the plate and ultimately lost 9–0. 
In Game 2 of the series, the 
Tritons o ffense was completely shut 
down as Cal Poly Pomona’s Tim 
Holdgrafer was absolutely lights 
outs, pitching no-hitters, while also 
striking out 11 batters. With the 
score now 1–1, UCSD junior starter 
Luke Mattson, lasted 4 innings, gave 
up 9 hits and 4 earned runs, and was 
succeeded by redshirt sophomore Zach Tresmer. 
The Mustangs were also clicking 
on offense as they scored 5 more 
runs, 3 earned, o ff Tresmer through 
his 4 innings. The Mustangs did their damage in the fourth inning, however, putting up 4 runs thanks 
to 5 hits and an error, including 
a double by third baseman Angel Ortiz. Although Holdgrafer walked 
four batters, he recovered well as 
his defense completed double plays 
in the first, second, and seventh 
innings. 
The past two games have knocked 
UCSD down to a 7–4 record (2–4 in conference), which makes these 
next two games critical in hopes to 
pull closer to Cal Poly Pomona, who 
is sitting at 8–4 overall, but more 
importantly 6–0 in conference play. 
The last two games of the series 
will return to La Jolla where the 
Tritons aim to break out of this slump during their doubleheader 
this Saturday. The first game starts at 
1 p.m. and the second at 4 p.m.
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team faced o ff against 
California State University Sonoma 
Seawolves in the penultimate road 
game of the season, ultimately 
defeating the Seawolves 79–61. The 
win extends UCSD’s undefeated season another week, li fting its overall record to an impressive 23–0.
Before the game, the Tritons 
were the clear favorite to win. If their undefeated record was not enough of 
an indication, UCSD has compiled 
more than double the wins that 
Sonoma State had at this point in the 
season. Despite the final score though, 
Sonoma State surprisingly was leading 
at the end of the first quarter 16–11. 
But, the Tritons turned on the jets during the second quarter, outscoring 
the Seawolves almost 3–1. UCSD 
carried that momentum till the end 
of the game, winning in commanding 
fashion.
UCSD’s pair of junior stars, guard 
Sydney Sharp and forward Mikayla 
Williams, led the team on o ffense. 
Sharp and Williams had 22 and 21 
points, respectively. Junior forward 
Haleigh Hat field also had a nice outing. The 6-foot-1-inch forward 
recorded a double-double: 11 points 
and 10 rebounds on o ffense. On 
defense, senior guard Kayla Sato was the Triton’s standout. Sato had a team-
high of 5 steals, along with 7 points 
and 3 assists.
Next week the Tritons will close out 
the 2018-19 regular season at home against California State University, 
Monterey Bay and California State University, East Bay. Their final two 
games are home games at the RIMAC 
Arena; tipo ff for both games is at 5:30 
p.m. While the result of these games really has no bearing on the standings, 
it could be important for UCSD to win 
in order to maintain their powerful 
stretch of dominance.Baseball Ends Four-Game Skid With Doubleheader Wins 
Women’s Basketball Extends Streak to 23 GamesBY hayden wellbeloved
contributing writer
BY wesley Xiao
staff writerha yden wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.edu
Wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSvs Concordia (Irvine)
vs Point Loma Nazarene@ UC Santa Barbaravs Cal State Monterey Bayvs Cal State Monterey Bay UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Tennis
W Tennis
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball3PM2PM7PM
5:30PM7:30PM2/262/27
3/13/23/2
CONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
Padres’ Machado Signing Makes 
Waves in San Diego Sports Scene
With the introduction of a star, the Padres have a chance to bring 
excitement and a sports-town atmosphere back to the beach.
The San Diego sports scene is on 
the mend. UC San Diego is in the 
process of becoming a Division I 
school for athletics. San Diego State University has become more and more relevant over the last decade 
in both basketball and football. But 
most importantly the San Diego 
Padres, the local MLB team and 
the one major sports franchise 
remaining in the city, have now signed the two biggest free-agents in 
back-to-back o ff-seasons. 
On Tuesday, Feb. 20 the Padres 
signed free-agent infielder Manny 
Machado to a 10-year, $300 million contract, the largest free-agent 
contract in MLB history and by 
far the largest contract in Padres’ 
franchise history. Last o ff-season, 
the Padres signed first baseman Eric 
Hosmer to an 8-year, $144 million 
deal, which at the time was the 
largest contract in franchise history. 
Fans and players alike are excited 
for what is in store for the sport’s 
future of San Diego.
“Now, it’s up to us players to 
go out there and build a culture, 
because San Diego deserves a 
winner, ” Padres in fielder and San 
Diego native Greg Garcia said in 
an interview with USA Today’s Bob 
Nightengale. “I think this town is 
ready to explode. ”
This isn’t the first time the Padres 
have made a splash in the o ffseason. 
In 2015, the team and general 
manager AJ Preller brought in 
established stars like Craig Kimbrel and Justin Upton to try and pull the 
franchise out of irrelevancy. Both 
produced well for their new team, but both were dealt away at the end 
of the 2015 campaign, a season in which the Padres won just 74 games, 
good for just fourth place in the 
National League West and nowhere 
near a playo ff berth. 
But now, with the signings of 
Eric Hosmer in 2017 and Manny 
Machado in 2018, the Padres have 
committed hundreds of millions of 
dollars to the team spread over the next decade. This can only mean 
one thing: San Diego is back as a 
baseball town. 
“There comes a point where 
you’re ready to pour in – and it looks 
like [the Padres are] ready to pour 
in, ” MLB Hall of Famer John Smoltz 
said in an interview with CBS 
Sports Radio. “When you put the 
right pieces together, you can start climbing that ladder of success. ”
If you’re having a hard time 
remembering when the Padres were last relevant, it’s probably because 
most of you reading this weren’t 
even born yet, or if you were, you 
definitely weren’t a baseball fan with a fully constructed long term memory. 
The last time the Padres made 
the playo ffs was way back in 2006, 
and the last time the Padres had a truly transcendent star was when the homegrown Tony Gwynn graced 
the field. 
Gwynn was a consensus first 
ballot Hall of Famer. One of the 
best pure hitters of his time, he 
put the team and the city on his shoulders during the ‘90s. Gwynn 
nearly brought the Padres a World 
Series title in 1998, when the small-
town Padres went toe-to-toe with 
the New York Yankees, the most powerful franchise in American 
sports, ultimately being swept in 
four games. 
Now I’m not saying Machado 
is anything like Gwynn. He’s not 
known to be a fan-favorite for one. And he’s not known to have a lot 
of heart or hustle. But he’s a young 
superstar who should have untapped 
potential and untapped maturity le ft 
to draw on. And Gwynn was the last 
Padre player to be signed to a top-
3 largest contract in the MLB when 
he signed his 3-year, $12.25 million extension back in 1991. 
The 26-year-old Machado has the 
potential to lead the Padres to places 
only Gwynn had the ability to do. 
Machado has already been the face of a franchise before during his first 
few MLB seasons with the Baltimore 
Orioles. While he struggled with maturity, his performance rarely 
faltered and thus, he has signed the largest free agent contract in MLB 
history. 
Even if you’re not a Padres fan 
or even a sports fan, you may be 
wondering what this means for you. How could signing one player make 
my life within my city any di fferent?
But the signing of Manny 
Machado is not an isolated event. It 
is not just the spending of hundreds 
of millions of dollars. It has the 
potential to bring national attention 
to the city best known in the sports 
world for losing professional sports franchises, most recently the San 
Diego Chargers. 
Over the course of the Padres’ 
franchise history in San Diego, 
beginning in 1969, the biggest factors that have led to attendance 
spikes have been moving to a new 
stadium and making the playo ffs. 
In the team’s first year at Petco Park 
in 2004, the current stadium, the 
attendance per game leaped up by about 11,000 fans per game from 
the 2003 marker of around 25,000 
to 37,000 fans per game and the 
team won 23 more games than the year prior. Subsequently, payroll increased by about $10 million, from roughly $55 million to $63 million, 
according to Baseball Reference. 
The last time the Padres made 
the playo ffs consistently, in 2005 
and 2006, the team’s attendance per 
game remained above 30,000 for 
those two seasons, the season before 
and the season a fter. The franchise 
never reached 30,000 fans per game again until 2015. 
And yes, if you’ve been following 
along, 2015 was the last time the Padres’ payroll increased drastically, even though the win total was still 
relatively similar to years prior. The 
team spent around $76 million in 
2014 and a whopping $125 million in 2015. In 2019, especially with the addition of Machado, the team 
will spend well over $100 million 
once again in what would be just the second time in franchise history and is projected to spend more than its record $125 million from 2015. 
What’s more is that Preller and 
the front o ffice have said they may 
not be done making moves, not denying the rumor of being in talks with the other superstar free agent of this o ffseason, out fielder Bryce 
Harper.
This will have an impact on you 
as a resident of San Diego. Even if 
you’re leaving in the next few years, 
as many UCSD students are, having 
a successful baseball team, or more 
generally a successful professional sports franchise, has economic and social impacts that are felt in 
many di fferent industries. Bars and 
restaurants surrounding Petco Park 
in downtown San Diego will see more foot tra ffic and more patrons 
as the Padres become more and more competitive. 
As Padres gear begins to more 
readily fly off the shelves and more 
young fans are converted from 
“homers” into “lifers, ” the city of San 
Diego and its more than 3 million residents will grow to embrace their last remaining major sports franchise. 
Beyond just the economic 
incentives are also social incentives. Not to get ahead of myself, but World Series parades and even playo ff 
baseball itself leads to a community buzz and social gathering 
opportunities unheard of in cities 
with unsuccessful franchises. 
Sports bars will be filled with 
local fans, all watching Padres games 
and rooting in their local team. 
With a more successful team, city 
residents can feel more connected to one another, and less like the outlier and more entrenched within 
a network of excited fans. 
With each day that passes, 
Opening Day draws nearer. UCSD 
students and San Diego residents 
should be prepared to have a more 
competitive professional baseball team in their area than any that has been seen in the last decade, and for the economic and social windfall 
that could follow.BY jack dorfman
sPorts Editor
With the addition of the prized free agent, the Padres are primed to bring excitement back to Petco 
Park and the city as a whole.ART BY ANTHONY TRAN
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu