Beginning on Oct. 21, 2019, 
the United States Census Bureau 
will start hiring census takers 
for the upcoming 2020 United States Census, with hiring events taking place throughout the city 
of San Diego and the greater 
San Diego County area. The bureau plans to employ 500,000 
people nationwide to accomplish the task of counting the entire population of the United States.
The U.S. Census Bureau is 
currently looking for individuals 
who are at least 18 years old, 
are U.S. citizens, have valid 
Social Security cards and email addresses, can pass criminal 
background checks, and are 
registered with the Selective Service System if applicable. 
Those hired will be paid at a 
competitive rate of $20.50 an hour. 
The United States Census has 
been conducted every ten years since 1790 in order to determine the distribution of congressional 
seats and federal funding to 
states and localities. The Census remains the largest and most 
complete survey in the United 
States, with only seven questions being asked — none of which 
involve citizenship.Recent allegations have come to light 
that UC San Diego poisoned six 
animal research subjects in October 
2018. The Ohio-based watchdog organization, 
Stop Animal Exploitation NOW!, uncovered a 
document from the university which stated that 
dosing errors in an experiment led to the death of six research subjects.
SAEN submitted a complaint to the United 
States Department of Agriculture in an effort to make UCSD responsible for the deaths. The USDA followed several months later with a 
report which indicated that the university did 
not comply with federal regulations in handling the research subjects. The inspection report drew from UCSD’s own letter to the National 
Institute of Health.
According to the document from UCSD’s 
Vice Chancellor for Research Sandra Brown, 
“Due to a miscalculation and dosing error, 
six rabbits were injected with a higher dose 
of barium chloride than was approved in the protocol. By the following day, two rabbits had 
died and the remaining four were emergently 
reported to the Animal Care Program, and, 
ultimately were humanely euthanized. ”
From this letter, SAEN submitted a complaint 
to the USDA alleging that the medical procedure violated the federal Animal Welfare Act in a 
multitude of ways. The organization cited that 
the university did not handle the animals with care, the medical personnel were insufficiently trained and qualified, and personnel did not 
follow the approved experimental protocol. 
The Animal Welfare Act of 1966 is the 
only federal law that regulates the treatment of animals in research, exhibition, transport, 
and by dealers. In regards to the allegations, this act sets the standards for how laboratories should treat their test subjects humanely and with respect. 
“This violation is particularly heinous 
because barium chloride poisoning can cause ventricular tachycardia, muscle weakness, 
and paralysis before death occurs, ” Executive 
Director of SAEN Michael Budkie said in a letter to the USDA. “Since UCSD’s negligence has now resulted in the performance of a 
botched procedure which killed six animals, 
I must insist that [the USDA] take the most severe action allowable under the Animal 
Welfare Act and immediately launch a full 
investigation of this facility. ”
The USDA subsequently opened a case and 
inspected the university of any wrongdoing. 
By August 2019, the Institutional Animal Care 
and Use Committee filed a report charging UCSD with a “critical citation, ” the most serious citation the department could provide for cases 
like these. 
“Should the USDA consider to move 
forward with a prosecution and open a case, the maximum penalty is $10,000 per infraction/per 
animal, ” Budkie said to the UCSD Guardian. 
“UCSD could — since six animals were killed 
— theoretically be fined $60,000, and that’s 
what we’re pushing for. ” 
In response to the USDA ’s inspection report, 
UCSD is seeking to reverse the finding’s decision.
“The lab involved promptly reported the 
incident to UCSD’s Animal Care Program, ” 
UCSD Communications Director for Research 
Affairs Michelle Franklin said in an email to the Guardian. “ An investigation was conducted 
and new procedures have been put in place to 
prevent future errors. UCSD disagrees [with the USDA ’s citation] as this was an error, not a VOLUME 53, ISSUE 4  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 21, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Father Joe’s Villages  
Issues Statement on 
City Homelessness Plan 
The statement is in regards to the 1.9 
million dollars in funding that the city is providing to combat homelessness
CENSUS
Census Bureau Begins Hiring for Upcoming 2020 Count
UC San Diego Family Weekend kicks o ff with Homecoming soccer wins.  // Photo by Lauren McGeeThe San Diego City Council 
unanimously accepted the City of 
San Diego Community Action Plan 
on Homelessness which aims to prevent homelessness and provide 
housing service with $1.9 million 
funding over the next 10 years on Oct. 14, 2019.
Prior to the City Council’s 
voting, Father Joe’s Villages, a local organization that provides services such as food, sheltering 
and transitioning programs for 
homeless people in San Diego, made a statement about the 
Community Action Plan, showing 
approval and support.
“If this plan is to be successful, 
a critical component will be the 
integration of comprehensive 
supportive services tailored to the needs of those on the streets, ” 
Deacon Jim V argas, president and 
CEO of Father Joe’s Villages, said in 
a statement.  
Father Joe’s Village stayed 
involved in the formulation of 
the plan since the beginning. The Corporation for Support of Housing 
gathered senior staff from several 
local homeless service providers in a small group to exchange ideas on possible solutions. 
The Plan on Homelessness was 
disclosed by the San Diego Housing Commission, an agency that 
provides housing programs and 
opportunities for the low income and homeless communities. The 
Housing Commission charted the 
Community Action Plan catered for San Diego and contracted with 
the Corporation for Supportive 
Housing, an organization that provides strategic plans to alleviate homelessness across the country. 
As stated in the Plan, it aims to 
“decrease unsheltered homelessness 
by 50 percent” in three years. 
Within its three-year outlook, the Plan also envisions to end veteran and youth homelessness. 
When asked about the bold 
goals claimed by the Plan, Deacon Vargas expressed optimism.
“Is it bold? Y es. But it is also 
realistic assuming that we are taking it seriously and approaching it in a smart way, ” Deacon V argas 
told the UCSD Guardian.  
In fact, Father Joe’s Village is 
already getting a head start on moving towards the Plan’s stated 
goals.
Deacon V argas revealed that the 
organization will soon be making groundbreaking advances with the Turning the Key Initiative, which sets out to provide 2000 units of 
new apartments for the homeless 
community in San Diego. In two months, a 14-story building with 
407 units will be ready to be put 
into place and hopefully get 550 people off the street.By  andrew ha   
associate news editorRESEARCH
UCSD Cited with the Death of  6 Research SubjectsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Raveena reminded 
us all to do what 
we need the most: 
Take a moment. 
Breathe. Soften 
your edges. Love. 
Heal."
MARIANNE  WILLIAMSON
EL  CAMINOPC  PRINCESS
A  RETURN  TO  BREAKING  BADOPINION,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page  9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"And while more 
recent cartoons 
tend to be 
more socially 
conscious, these 
problematic jokes 
continue to exist."MONDAY
 H 80 L 62
WEDNESDAY
H 77 L 60
TUESDAY
H 83 L 62
THURSDAY
H 83 L 67
EARTHQUAKES...............4
IDLES...............................8
BUS ETIQUETTE............10
SPOOKY MOVIES...........12
HONG KONG..................16SAN DIEGO
Steven Zhou
Adult Cartoons
 PAGE 5The United States Census Bureau began its biggest push for hiring on local census takers this week. 
BY Jacob sutherland
news editorBY vivian yang
STAFF writerCONCERT REVIEW:
RAVEENA
A&E, page 8
See 2020,  page 3 See HOMELESSNESS,  page 3See RABBITS,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Collectively, we are baby.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Jahfreen Alam
Chloe Esser
Colleen Conradi
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Panels and events highlighting 
UC San Diego’s first graduates 
were held throughout the 2019 Homecoming Weekend from Oct. 18 to Oct. 20. V arious events were put on around campus to celebrate 
the alumni who had graduated in 
the years up to and including 1970.
One of the first events was 
the Golden Triton Induction and Celebration on Saturday, Oct. 19, on the eighth floor of Geisel Library, where some of UCSD’s oldest alumni were inducted into the Golden Triton Society. Every alumnus at the event was honored with a medal.
Many of the alumni were 
from Roger Revelle College and experienced the time when John Muir College, as well as Geisel Library, were first built. Some alumni remembered the founding of the Coffee Hut, now known as the C.H.E. Cafe.
“It was my class, class of ‘68, 
that had the first Watermelon Drop after a freshman year physics test, ” one alumnus said, referring to the Revelle College tradition that takes place on the last Friday of Spring Quarter annually.
Following this event was the 
Golden Triton Coffee Chats, where 
some alumni and current students 
were invited to be on a panel aptly 
titled: “ Alumni and Students: Then 
and Now. ”
The moderator was Tom 
Shepard, who was the Associated Students President from 1968 to 1969, as well as the former alumni president and co-chair of the class of 1970 reunion. The panel consisted of Steve Landau and Lisbeth Johnson from the class of ‘70, Dean of Student Activities in 
the 1960’s Bob Topolovac, current 
UCSD Guardian Editor-in-Chief Daisy Scott, A.S. Vice President of 
Campus Affairs Melina Reynoso, 
and the Black Resource Center’s Transfer Student Success Leader Maliq de Piña.
Landau briefly characterized 
his time at UCSD as one filled with protests. On a lighter note, he also described how the choice of recreational activity changed from alcohol to smoking pot during his years at UCSD.
Johnson recounted during the 
panel how being a person of color 
was difficult at the time.
“There were seven of us who 
hung together, blacks and browns, 
because we did not feel welcomed, ” 
she said.
Johnson also compared the 
protests and riots of her time to the mass shootings and political atmosphere the current generation of students are experiencing now.
de Piña spoke of his experiences 
as a transfer student from New Orleans, Louisiana, and how he realized over the course of his 
first year at UCSD, “ A lot of the 
negativity, a lot of the differences, a lot of the barriers that exist between 
us mostly just exist in our heads. ”
Reynoso similarly explained 
how she learned a lot from her 
campaign to become A.S. Vice 
President as she interacted with 
many students on Library Walk who were from different walks of life and different communities on and around campus.
Several other panels on the topics 
of research and campus growth and changes were held throughout the weekend as well. A Triton Times 
Reunion was held in Price Center 
where alumni who were on the staff 
of the earliest issues of the Triton 
Times met with the current staff of 
the UCSD Guardian, the successor of the original newspaper.
UCSD’s Homecoming Weekend 
is an annual event held every Fall Quarter to celebrate both the university as a whole and its alumni.
BY Ranjani Shankar
Managing editorUCSD
Panels Highlighting Alumni throughout the Years Held during Homecoming Weekend
A number of panels, including the Golden Triton Coffee Chats and a Triton Times Reunion, took place throughout the 3 day event
Ranjani Shankar  managing@ucsdguardian.org
Members of the Triton Times (predecessor to the UCSD Guardian) pored over original issues of their paper during Homecoming Weekend.  // Photo by McKenna JohnsonNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
1 1.7Green Table Room
12:30pm - 1:30pmBlue PepperINTO THE LIBRARY 3 
By Michi Sora
According to a study by the George 
Washington University, the results 
of the 2010 United States Census 
led to California being allocated $115,133,486,972 through 55 different 
federal spending programs. The results 
of the 2020 Census will be used to allocate over $675 billion to states and localities.
A San Diego media specialist from 
the U.S. Census Bureau, who requested to remain anonymous, spoke to the 
UCSD Guardian on the importance of 
the census in determining the allocation of federal funds.
“The distribution of more than 
$675 billion in federal funds and grants to support states, counties, and communities are based on census data, ” 
the specialist said. “That money supports 
vital programs for all students’ education now, employment in the future, and 
potentially their future families. ”
The census taker position involves 
the hands-on process of counting every 
person living in the United States. These 
jobs are hired locally to allow for census 
takers to count in the communities they already call home.
Census takers will begin training 
in March 2020, with the groundwork taking place between mid-March and 
the beginning of July. Those working 
in San Diego will help the Los Angeles Regional Office count everyone in the city and surrounding suburbs, including 
students living on campus at UC San 
Diego.
“This is a civic duty written into the 
Constitution, and it’s a way to say, ‘I count, ’” the specialist said. “By helping others participate, it’s letting them know they count too. ”
The application for applying to 
be a census taker is currently live on 2020census.gov, and is available through 
the end of January 2020.Several hiring events will be held throughout the San Diego area the week of  October 21, 2019A 2018 report found that San Diego had 8576 people in total experiencing homelessnessThe USDA now has 5 years to take UCSD to court and formally fine them for the dosing errors
▶ 2020 , from page 1▶ HOMELESSNESS , from page 1▶ RABBITS , from page 1
lapse in oversight, and is appealing this 
citation. ”
The USDA will now have up to five 
years, due to the Animal Welfare Act’s statute of limitations, to take UCSD to 
court and formally fine them for the 
dosing errors. However, information regarding any of this will only come after the prosecution is completed, if 
one is conducted at all. 
The initial document which reveals 
the compliance issue was submitted to 
the NIH and then uncovered by SAEN. UCSD had to provide the compliance 
information to the NIH in order for 
the university to continue to receive 
government funding.
“[SAEN] obtains documents like 
federal reports and records about every registered institute in the United States, ” Budkie said. “In this instance, UCSD had filed a report [regarding the 
death of six subjects] with the Office of 
Laboratory and Animal Welfare – a part 
of the NIH. The very fact that they filed 
this indicates that they knew they were violating federal regulations. ”
The NIH declined to comment and 
stated that they do not discuss whether 
an investigation is taking place nor do they comment on ongoing investigations 
if such are underway. 
More information regarding this 
story will come if the USDA releases 
new reports on the matter.
The number of homeless people that 
would be sheltered by this new building alone is already reaching over 10 percent of the Plan’s goal to reduce around 5000 homeless people in San Diego, giving a 
positive outlook to its implementation. 
According to the 2018 Annual Homeless 
Assessment Report, San Diego County had the fourth-most homeless residents, with 
8576 people experiencing homelessness. The Plan is different in that the $1.9 
million funding it calls upon does not depend on state funding alone. Instead, it also relies on local homeless service providers such as Father Joe’s Villages and 
local government funding programs. 
One such local funding program is 
the Y es for a Better San Diego Initiative, which will be voted upon next March. 
This Initiative will tax hotel stayers in San Diego and allocate the money to reduce 
homelessness, reconstruct streets, and 
expand tourism facilities. The Initiative will provide a major source of the financial support needed once adopted by the vote.
Andrew  ha  news@ucsdguardian.org
Jacob  Sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.orgvivian  y ang  yiyi288@ucsd,edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
On Oct. 16, NBC 7 San Diego released a story 
saying that half of the buildings at UC San Diego would likely cause serious harm, even death, 
should a substantial earthquake strike San Diego. Like many of the students, faculty members, employees, and visitors who read this article, I was stunned. Then, I was 
angry. But the more I thought, the more I realized maybe 
UCSD had actually done the responsible thing. After all, even the best decisions can look bad in hindsight. 
 So yes, we should be concerned that a hefty 
number of our buildings may collapse on us given a large enough earthquake. And yes, UCSD should take the steps it has stated it will take to ensure these buildings will better withstand earthquakes. However, UCSD administration, builders, and housing should not be looked at as careless or reckless for not already having these buildings in tip-top earthquake shape.
First, failure to replace these buildings was not 
a careless or reckless decision by the University of California or UCSD considering the measurements used to examine the buildings. As seen in the NBC 7 article, the buildings at UCSD were all rated between  III and  VI in safety. A level III, according to the contractors 
test, is deemed “good” while a level VI building is rated 
“very poorly” with the potential to cause “severe risk to life”. Reading this is enough to make any reasonable person want to run far from the La Jolla Hills. However, according to the assessment tests that University of California’s independent contractors tests used to produce these results, these ratings reflect how UCSD buildings would hold up during a major seismic event. The California Department of Conservation holds that a 7.0–7.9  magnitude earthquake is a “major” earthquake.  And a major earthquake is by no means the norm; worldwide only about 18 major earthquakes s occur annually. But isn’t UCSD still in the wrong here because we could have a major earthquake? 
Maybe, but major earthquakes and dangerous 
aftershocks are rare in San Diego. San Diego is not home to the infamous earthquake-brewing San Andreas Fault Line. This makes it unlikely that UCSD  will experience an earthquake of the magnitude necessary to cause buildings to level should the San Andreas Fault soon produce “the big one” (a 7.0+ magnitude quake). 
In this regard, history may serve as a guide. The 
last time there was a major earthquake caused by the Southern California side of the San Andreas Fault, a 7.9 magnitude quake, the aftershocks of the quake were felt in San Diego. However, according to seismic historians, 
this aftershock was likely only a magnitude 5 earthquake. 
Thus, if a similar situation happened today we would 
feel the aftershock, but damage to large items and buildings would be very irregular. So, as administrators presumably understood when they decided not to retrofit old buildings and immediately tear down older buildings, the danger the San Andreas fault poses to our campus is minimal. 
The Rose Canyon Fault, San Diego County’s own 
fault line, could also potentially birth a quake large enough to cause potential damage, but that is also rather improbable. According to research published in 2017, the Rose Canyon Fault could produce a powerful earthquake “every few hundred years”. However, long term studies that likely informed the UC system’s decisions, do not expect the Rose Canyon Fault to produce a serious quake in the next thirty years. 
These facts convey that with the information available 
at the time, it was safe for UCSD to keep its buildings as is and assume that a dangerous earthquake was not going to cause damage anytime soon. Notably, UCSD could not have reasonably foreseen the string of earthquakes that have recently bubbled up in California. Thus, to have acted against the information available to them would have been improper. It would mean that UCSD would be pouring student funds and other needed capital into tearing down, building, or continually retrofitting 
facilities to keep them in prime shape for a monster that 
may never come and that would in all likelihood not threaten our campus. 
Additionally, considering that these assessments 
began before earthquake activity in California ramped up again earlier this year, shame against UCSD and the UC system for its building’s lackluster earthquake safety ratings is unwarranted. In fact, UCSD seems to have acted offensively to protect the safety of its students, faculty, and campus visitors. 
According to the sources above, the earthquake safety 
assessments of UCSD’s buildings began in 2017. This was nearly a year before a series of large earthquakes struck Ridgecrest, California and reverberated throughout the state, prompting renewed concern in California’s earthquake preparedness. It also came on the heels of the most recent long-term report, published in 2015, of 
California’s likelihood of having a large earthquake in 
the next 30 years. The report, which likely informed the UC system and UCSD’s actions, did not suggest that San Diego, or its local fault lines, were very likely to experience a large earthquake in the next 30 years.  Thus, by enacting the assessment of its buildings, UCSD and the UC System appropriately acted to ensure safety even without evidence that UCSD was in harm’s way. For this reason and the reasons above, the criticism that UCSD has faced for its buildings’ ratings is undeserved. 
UCSD makes its fair share of questionable decisions 
regarding student, faculty, and staff well-being. However, given the knowledge available, previous failure to modify our buildings in preparation for a large earthquake should not be deemed one of them. Vilification of UCSD for even reasonable decisions will not make this campus better. In fact, it merely detracts from the issues that truly warrant criticism. 
As I sat in my Lyft taking a 30-minute drive to the 
Seaside Center for Spiritual Living, listening to the 
October Democratic Debate on the radio, I did not know 
what to expect upon entering Marianne Williamson’s Encinitas rally. Williamson is quite an outlier on the political scene; Vox writer Zack Beauchamp called her 
campaign “scary” while Washington Post writer Jonathan 
Capehart said that it’s “a pity” that we likely will not be graced with her presence on a debate stage ever again.
Neither of these sentiments rang true as I entered 
the auditorium, being greeted by an aura of enlightened energy, the aroma of incense and oils, and a sea of rally signs portraying Williamson’s likeness.
The infamous candidate has been polling at 0 percent 
in numerous polls for the past several weeks. However, it was clear that the hundreds of supporters, many who have been following Williamson for decades, were in it for the long haul. Several of the followers that I spoke to echoed this notion. One woman who practiced the spiritual exercise of light reading told me that she had been following Williamson since the 1970s. It appeared 
to me that Williamson’s core base was an audience that 
is oft overlooked by many presidential candidates: An audience who practices spiritual awakening and self-discovery.
The crowd cheered as Williamson took the stage around 
8:10 p.m. Many supporters wiped away tears of joy at seeing a lighthouse beaconing them to enlightenment in a sea of moral darkness. Williamson took her place in front 
of the crowd and began speaking in her iconic coastal 
accent.
“There’s nothing holy about complacency, and there’s 
nothing negative about yelling fire if everything is 
burning,” Williamson asserted to the crowd.
But the main focus of the night was not on spirituality. 
Rather, Williamson honed in on the intersection of 
“It would mean that 
UCSD would be pouring 
student funds and other 
needed capital into 
tearing down, building, 
or continually retrofitting 
facilities to keep them 
in prime shape for a 
monster that may never 
come...”By: Geena Roberts // Opinion Editor
Stop  the  Seismic  Hate
500  SoCal  Spiritualists,  Marianne  Williamson,  and  a  Chicago  Boi
See MARIANNE,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
2 FREE LYFT RIDESTHE SYNDICATE  
By Yui Kita
spiritual enlightenment and political 
involvement.
“We have allowed ourselves the chronic 
convenience of political disengagement,” Williamson continued. “This isn’t the time to say, ‘What is going on?’ This is the time 
to say, ‘Come on, we need some courage. 
We can do this.’”
Her 45-minute speech ended in a jubilant 
uproar from her supporters. However, the 
night was just getting started. She gave 
the audience two options: A question-and-answer session about her candidacy, or the opportunity for a brief group meditation and reflection session. While I abstained 
from voting, the room unanimously chose 
the latter.
I did not know what to expect going 
into this. However, after closing our 
eyes and clearing our minds, Williamson 
encouraged us to find our deepest desire for the country and to shout it out loud by finishing the phrase “I imagine an America 
in which …” The room came to life for the 
next 15 minutes, with folks sharing their desires ranging from “an America in which there are no more school shootings” to “an 
America in which the bees are saved.” I 
found this exercise heartwarming — the people in the room genuinely cared about the nation’s moral compass.
As the night came to a close and I sat 
in the back seat of a Lyft home, I couldn’t help but reflect on the Marianne 2020 campaign as a whole. My experience with 
Williamson’s campaign was not scary. 
However, I also don’t find it a pity that she will likely not return to the debate stage; her personal brand of political morality doesn’t seem to be a winning ideology. That being said, Marianne Williamson serves as a voice for a niche community 
in the nation — a joy to watch for those 
who consider themselves outsiders of the spiritual community. Will I be casting my 
vote for Williamson come March? No, but 
will I be cheering her on from the cosmic sidelines of the universe? You bet your spiritual a-- I will.
▶ MARIANNE , from page 1
jacob  sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
South Park’s recent episode, “Band in China, ” raised some 
eyebrows for tearing into Hollywood’s deference to the Chinese government’s censorship rules. The show even 
dared to satirize China’s numerous human rights violations, which are still being documented today. Unsurprisingly, anything related to South Park has now been blocked in China, yet the Chinese government is only the latest victim of the 22-year-old cartoon series’ criticism. A simple Wikipedia search on the South Park controversies yields a staggering list that will make most people wonder: How is it still on air?
Although it is one of the more extreme examples, South 
Park is by no means the only adult cartoon facing criticism. Adult cartoons, unlike regular cartoons, feature more mature and suggestive content targeted towards an older audience. As evidenced by shows ranging from  The Boondocks to Archer, adult cartoons often have a “love it or hate it” quality to them 
that can incite heated arguments about whether they’re worth 
being kept on air. In the United States, at least, the format’s continuous survival seems to indicate that the answer is yes. In fact, the record for the longest running American scripted television series in history is held by The Simpsons, which is approaching 33 years on air. What is it about these animations that keeps bringing us back?
Perhaps our fear of social deviance draws us to these 
cartoons. Characters in these shows are often rebels, doing or saying things that we in the physical world would never get away with. People can vicariously live out their vices by watching these alternate universes, where any consequences for poor behavior are erased by waiting for the next episode. Why get hurt instigating a fist fight when you can watch Fry and Dr. Zoidberg from “Futurama” duke it out instead? And why get into heated political arguments with people when you can watch Stan and Haley Smith from “ American Dad” bickering over capital punishment? Real life is tiring, and these cartoons can help weary adults forget about everything and have a good laugh watching animated characters do things that just aren’t possible for an average, functioning member of society. 
Beyond that, these cartoons help satisfy our imaginations 
by transporting us into a fantasy world where anything and everything can happen. While not technically an adult cartoon, the show “ Adventure Time” has managed to transcend its target childhood audience, even drawing in an adult following despite its wacky setting in the Land of Ooo and playful concepts including a Korean-speaking Rainicorn and a princess made of bubblegum. One thing is for sure: If enjoying cartoon worlds with ridiculous characters is a childish thing, this country has a lot more children than many would think. 
Ironically, it’s because of their ability to create a world from 
scratch that these cartoons always seem to be under attack by angry detractors. Much like with children’s cartoons, these shows have to face the wrath of fully-grown humans with complex opinions built upon decades of life experiences and struggles. The conservative activist group Parents Television Council, for instance, has spent 24 years advocating for the removal of adult cartoons from programming. While the vulgar content is part of their discontent with these animations, these opponents are also unhappy seeing fictional worlds that their personal morals do not align with. The world of “Family Guy, ” for instance, featured a controversial gay wedding in “You May Now Kiss the...Uh...Guy Who Receives” as early as 2006. The show also gave exposure to issues trans people face with familial acceptance in “Quagmire’s Dad, ” which details Quagmire’s eventual acceptance and reconciliation with his father, Ida, who comes out as a trans woman (although that episode also received criticism for the open transphobia some characters exhibited). The PTC considers “Family Guy” a “red light” program, citing “lewd sexual references or taboo topics” as one of the show’s major issues.
To be fair, cultural conservatism is not the only reason people 
cite to take down these cartoons. Some would argue that the excessive brutality in these shows could encourage a culture of violence. Many adult cartoons have histories of cracking jokes that would no longer be acceptable today. The Simpsons recently 
 
Adul ts  swim,
and  tha t's  oka y
As anyone who stays up watching Cartoon Network past 9 p.m. knows, cartoons do not die 
with childhood. Lewd, crude, and rude, adult cartoons are lightning rods for criticism, but they 
deserve a spot in everyone’s TV repertoire nevertheless.
By steven  zhou    Contributing writer
The creators of South Park, Matt Stone (left) and Trey Parker (right) have described 
their show as an outlet to satirize all outlooks on life.ART COURTESY OF ROYAL OAK TRIBUNE
See CARTOONS,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
took out Apu, a character that has helped propagate and 
maintain problematic stereotypes about South Asians for decades. And while more recent cartoons tend to be more socially conscious, these problematic jokes continue to exist. “Rick and Morty, ” a cartoon that started as recently as 2013, has generated a sizeable fanbase who identify with the misogyny of Rick, an issue even Dan Harmon, one of the show’s co-creators, has acknowledged. With all this in mind, another question obviously arises: Do these cartoons confer enough societal benefits to be worth the social harm that they can cause?
I’ d argue the answer 
is yes, with an asterisk.
Without a doubt, 
these shows have the capability to drive tribalism by upholding racial stereotypes, making fun of sexualities, or glossing over sexism. Ask any average American on the street and they are sure to denounce such qualities becoming normalized. As such, writers for these shows should be holding themselves up to a high 
standard whenever they decide to air a joke. Whether that 
means hiring a diverse writing staff, or, in the Simpsons’ case, acknowledging problematic content and fixing it for the future, these shows have a duty to “punch up” for their comedy and ensure they aren’t marginalizing any of their viewers or portraying an unfair image of a group of people. 
Nevertheless, adult cartoons are unique in their ability 
to portray a world separate  from real life. In this cartoon world, boundaries are pushed, barriers are removed, and common knowledge is challenged. Such a world is much more difficult to generate in live action TV shows, however, because  industry pressures and the historical cultural hegemony of white men make character writing and casting much more contentious. 
Speaking from personal experience, one of the first 
male Asian American characters I’ d ever seen who  wasn’t some type of sidekick scientist, kung fu master, or other “stereotypical” profession was Vince Chung (a typical popular high school jock) from American Dad. Today, I see representation of myself everywhere from box office hits 
to upcoming superhero movies. “King of the Hill, ” with its humorous interactions between Hank and Bobby Hill, was tearing down toxic masculinity before it became mainstream. Recent releases such as “Disenchantment” are already underway normalizing gender 
fluidity in the episode “The Limits of Immortality. ” 
These adult cartoons have served as a playground for 
adults to discover new things, and are, in many ways, our nation’s beta tester for new social movements. Under the 
guise of playful animations, these cartoons have a child-
like naivety that can help introduce rigid adults to novel ideas. 
Additionally, their politically incorrect jokes, while 
unpalatable, keep us aware of pervasive problems Americans still experience. In fact, many times these jokes are inserted to make the point that such ideas should be unacceptable. These quips start important conversations between people about what our society’s moral code should be, and they help motivate us to remain vigilant in our quest towards a more just society. 
Love ‘em or hate ‘em, adult cartoons are here to stay.
 
The Simpsons (left) and Futurama (right) paved the road for modern works of adult animation such as Disenchantment (middle) and Rick and Morty (unpictured).ART COURTESY OF FANDOM.COM
“Beyond that, these cartoons 
help satisfy our imaginations 
by transporting us into a 
fantasy world where anything 
and everything can happen.”▶ CARTOONS , from page 6
STEVEN  zhou   syz008@UCSD.EDUU.K. punk band IDLES performed 
at The Observatory North Park 
on Oct. 7 as part of their world 
tour, showcasing songs off their critically acclaimed 2018 release, “Joy as an Act of 
Resistance. ” The band released “Brutalism” 
in 2017, establishing IDLES as the freshest 
face of the U.K. punk rock scene. Their music touches on themes such as racism, 
nationalism, sexism, mental health, drug 
abuse, and love. “Joy as an Act of Resistance” 
builds on those themes and continues to 
make music that is lyrically dense and just as 
throttling and loud as their last record. 
IDLES shows are notorious for their 
moshing and rowdiness so I went fully prepared to get injured. Luckily, I found a 
safe spot toward the back, but this did not 
prevent me from feeling like a part of the fun 
chaos that would soon ensue. As one of the 
few women at the show, I was intimidated 
at first. But knowing IDLE’s message of community, acceptance, and anarchy, I felt 
at ease knowing I was with like-minded  folk. 
The opener, Surfbort, a female-led 
Brooklyn based punk band, was on par 
with IDLES’ general disdain of capitalism and people in power, opening their set with 
a song called “F*ck Trump. ” Dani Miller’s 
angsty vocals, along with Alex Kilgore and David R. Head Jr. on guitar and Sean Powell on drums set the upbeat and noisy tone for 
the rest of the night. 
Shortly after the opener, IDLES sauntered 
on stage and took their positions. Lead singer 
Joe Talbot was at the front of the stage, 
sporting a half-buttoned  collared shirt and 
slacks, followed by guitarist Mark Bowen who was stripped down to just his boxers. Bassists 
Adam Devonshire and Lee Kiernan stood 
on either side of Talbot. Once drummer Jon 
Beavis settled into his seat, he grabbed his 
drum sticks and began to hit the stick on 
the edge of the drum kit, creating a steady, 
skeletal beat. Kiernan’s guitar strummed one-note, catching the beat every four beats to 
Beavis’s eight, creating a circular rhythm 
eventually joined by Talbot’s raspy vocals. A 
grandiose opening song, “Colossus” created 
an ominous yet electric energy in the room. 
It was as if IDLES were giving us a moment 
to mentally prepare for what was about to go down — a night of community, chaos, and 
catharsis. 
Up next was “Never Fight a Man With 
a Perm, ” a song about toxic masculinity 
and the petty displays of superiority based on physical strength. The plucky guitar riff 
accompanied by a heavy bass line was met 
with Talbot’s angry, grimy voice, indicating to the audience that it was now the time to start moshing. The whole crowd was jumping 
up and down screaming the lyrics back at 
Talbot. 
Next was a more humorous cut off of their 
latest album “I’m Scum, ” an ironic yet self-
aware tune about being a “lefty, ” “soft” cog in 
the machine. “I’m Scum” is a direct rebuttal critique against those who are left-leaning , 
or “liberal snowflakes, ” Talbot claiming that 
“this snowflake is an avalanche. ” 
Following this theme of being “soft” is 
the song “Samaritan” which explores the 
constricting  gender norms imposed on men. 
Talbot’s guttural belching of “Man Up, Sit Down, Chin Up, Pipe Down, ” expressed  the 
cognitive dissonance that occurred  when he 
didn’t act like society expected him to. 
One of my favorite parts of the show 
was watching Bowen dance eclectically 
throughout each song. His dancing felt like 
its own performance art piece as if the guitar was an extension of himself and in order to 
play guitar, he had to move his whole body 
to play a single chord. If he wasn’t dancing, he 
would join the crowd. Bowen would crowd 
surf — with no shirt on but considerably more sweat — with guitar in hand. He would 
slowly be carried towards the back of the 
venue, shredding his guitar as security and management roped the guitar cord through the crowd. He  would eventually reach the front and head back on stage in time to 
continue onto the next song and end up in 
the audience a few times throughout the 
night again. 
Talbot would speak to us between songs, 
including short monologues about the 
dwindling political and social climate of the U.S. and the U.K., but also reminding us 
to respect each other and have fun despite 
it. At one point, he called out security for 
trying to kick a girl out for “just trying to 
have a good time. ” He called her on stage to 
introduce herself, revealing that she was only 
15. He gave her a hug and asked the audience to hold her up for the entirety of the next 
song “Exeter, ” because “she is our future” 
and we must “uplift the youth. ” Exeter was 
the perfect soundtrack to her crowd-surfing 
journey as it speaks to Talbot’s experience 
growing up in a conservative town as a child 
and wanting to escape.
A personal highlight was their 
performance of “Cry to Me, ” a Solomon Burke cover which is iconographic of one 
of my favorite movies, “Dirty Dancing. ” The 
punk twist to this traditionally soulful and 
bluesy tune is surprisingly delightful. 
They closed out the night with 
“Rottweiler, ” an aggressive and noisy song about Talbot’s distrust in the media and other 
hegemonic groups that seek to silence those 
who speak out against corrupt powers. An 
almost overwhelming crescendo of noise 
from wailing, distorted guitars and pulsing 
drum symbols continued to build for at least three minutes before the noise came 
to a succinct clean end. It was a moment of 
catharsis; all the negative energy that we may 
have started off the night with was dissolved 
as we danced to Talbot ’s healing lyrics. 
IDLES delivered an animalistic, raw, 
and politically-charged performance that one must experience to truly understand. It 
reminds us that there is power in vulnerability, 
power in community, and power in healing.
— Julianna  Covarrubias
Staff Writer
A&E EDITORS // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
CONCERT   REVIEW
RA VEENA
PHOTO COURTESY OF HARSIMRAN SINGH
Location   The Stage Room
Concert Date  Oct. 2, 2019CA
The Stage Room enters a state of lucid dreaming and healing with the help of a gentle Raveena.
The Stage Room is dark and a little 
moist, a byproduct of shoving over 
300 students in a small room. With 
a line of students out the door hoping to snag a spot inside, I’m glad I bought my 
tickets before. There were enough fans of 
the Indian-American singer to move the 
venue from The Loft to the more spacious Stage Room in order to accommodate all the 
students. 
Truthfully, I only found out about Raveena 
a few months prior — and I regret all the 
time that I didn’t know her. Finding someone 
with a similar heritage in a genre that I love 
is a special feeling. Y ou see South Asian representation in the form of Zayn Malik’s 
journey from pop-stardom, the indie-rock 
sensibilities of Y oung the Giant, and M.I.A ’s 
Brit-pop bangers, but I’ve never experienced 
it so personally like this. Raveena is carving a 
space for people that look like me, beginning 
a new wave of South Asian solidarity that can be hard to find so easily.
There’s polite applause as two white 
flowers with fabric petals are brought onto 
the stage. Little mushroom stalks — known 
as Raveena’s signature — dot the stage as well; it’s like we were transported to a whimsical grove. It’s important to note that Raveena 
makes all these herself, demonstrating 
dedication to her aesthetic and craft while 
adding another element of genuineness. The 
flower centers flicker from a warm, pink 
glow to a fluorescent blue as Raveena comes 
on like a woodland nymph.
“Holy as the sunrise, ” are Raveena’s first 
words from “Stronger, ” a track off her debut album “Lucid. ” It’s as easy and smooth live as 
it is recorded, which is a difficult feat. The 
song itself is a celebration of survival from an 
abuser, and as Raveena dips into her lower 
register, “I know you love to see me broken / Live to see me confused, on my knees / Don’t 
talk too soon, I ain’t dead yet, ” the flower 
lights become brighter and lighter, and it feels 
entirely holy in that room.
Spiritual as it is emotional, Raveena fully 
envelopes herself into the cross-section of the 
two, and the audience adores it. 
“If Only” is arguably her most popular 
song and it garners the loudest cheers from the crowd as soon as the drum beats hit. It’s 
about healing from an abusive relationship, 
and this isn’t an uncommon theme for Raveena. As a sexual assault and domestic violence survivor, her experiences often 
seep into her music. Despite the heaviness 
of her lyrics, her vocals are light and airy, 
silky enough to slip through your fingers. 
Raveena is well-versed in laying down her 
raw vulnerabilities and coating them with 
sweet, sweet honey.
Many of Raveena’s songs have to do with 
healing, becoming yourself, loving, and letting starlight into you. But, one of her last 
songs takes a slightly different route. Raveena 
excitedly cheers, “This song is about how 
absolutely beautiful women are!”
In “Temptation, ” Raveena opens up about 
her bisexuality, something that isn’t talked about in South Asian culture in the slightest. 
She starts with an angelic, melodic sigh 
before she cooed, “Miss Temptation, I don’t 
think you know / Y ou keep me waitin’ , know 
you like to take it slow. ” She treats the story 
of attraction with cheekiness and normalcy, coupling the song with fluid dancing. While 
her moves could be read as sensual, it’s 
utterly dreamy if anything else. Dressed like 
a clementine, Raveena’s orange bell sleeves 
shift and wave throughout the performance. There’s a sense of grace and composure to her moves, right down to her fingertips. As 
the song fades away with blissful chimes, 
she finishes up with a few twirls and lively 
applause.
As a person and artist, Raveena exudes 
such a soft sweetness, it’s unsurprising to 
me when she asked the crowd to take a breath and meditate to clear out any negative 
energies. She does this at every tour stop, and 
with her performance at The Stage Room 
acting as the last stop for her Lucid Tour, we 
were no exception.
Her words, soft and gentle, curled around 
the room, “Breathe in clear white light. Breathe out and feel. ”
An audible hush came over the room, and 
it did feel magical. At that moment, Raveena 
reminded us all to do what we need the most: 
Take a moment. Breathe. Soften your edges. 
Love. Heal.
— JAHFREEN  ALAM
A&E  Editor
CONCERT   REVIEW
IDLES
PHOTO COURTESY OF OBSERVATORY NORTH PARK
Location   North Park Observatory
Concert Date  Oct. 7, 2019CA
IDLES brings noisy punk and political revolution to San Diego.A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your new F all 
Quarter U-Pass today! 
Valid September 13, 2019 through January 3, 2020.Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.The Netflix Originals movie sequel to “Breaking Bad” preserves the original ending of the TV series while also acting as a fulfilling epilogue to the show’s lore.
Six years ago, Vince Gilligan’s highly 
acclaimed TV series, “Breaking Bad, ” came to a close. The ultra-violent crime 
drama sees chemistry teacher turned meth dealer, Walter White (Bryan Cranston) and his partner/former student, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul) as they navigate the dangerous criminal 
underbelly of Albuquerque, New Mexico in an 
attempt to expand their drug operation. Their illegal escapades cause them to clash with the federal Drug Enforcement Administration as well as a variety of ruthless gangs that ultimately 
culminates in a gut-wrenching, action-packed 
series finale. 
Given the explosive and ambitious nature of 
the final episode, any attempt at creating a direct 
continuity of “Breaking Bad” would be a risky 
bet. However, it looks like Netflix has beaten the odds via its release of “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, ” a masterfully executed follow-up that preserves the spirit and atmosphere of the 
famous meth-centered show. It sees Gilligan 
once again at the helm as the principal writer and director, Paul reprising his role as Pinkman, and much of the supporting cast returning 
for the final time. The film serves as a sort of 
epilogue, delving into Pinkman’s journey in escaping his criminal past and starting a second life. In doing so, “El Camino” wastes no time in picking up after the events in “Felina” , the final episode in the series. The initial shot in the film 
is one of Pinkman speeding away in a Chevy 
El Camino, screaming with a mix of anger, exhilaration, and joy as he escapes the fateful crime scene where “Breaking Bad” concluded. 
Despite the time between the end of the 
series and the release of the movie sequel, Gilligan manages to pull off a seamless transition between the two and reels the audience back into a moment that ended six years earlier. The 
sets and props within the film are immaculately 
constructed and exactly reflect the feel and atmosphere of the gritty criminal underbelly of southwestern America as exhibited in Gilligan’s 
original show. Moreover, the returning cast and 
even the costumes that they don echo this sense of continuity in the “Breaking Bad” universe. Nevertheless, perhaps what truly establishes Gilligan’s film as a notable follow-up to his prior 
work is the once-again brilliant and dynamic 
performance that Paul delivers as Pinkman. Paul is able to capture the brokenness, desperation, and conscience of a man haunted by his past, 
while also conveying the classic flashes of self-
confidence and excitement that have come to be associated with Pinkman’s character.Beyond its fitting nature as an epilogue for 
the series, “El Camino” is also an exceedingly well-shot film. The ambitious attention 
to cinematography is uncanny as camera 
angle, movement, and distance all operate in conjunction to emphasize the underlying emotions and tensions present in character 
interactions in each respective scene. Even 
more impressive is how the director is able to transition between scenes. Gilligan’s propensity to use match cuts in between shots of flashbacks and the conventional linear storyline allows 
him to interweave past and present in an 
extremely fluid manner. In doing so, he is able to convey the idea that “El Camino” is not only a story about Jesse’s desire to escape from the 
authorities but also his desperation to free 
himself of the memories formed in the events of “Breaking Bad” .
While Gilligan’s ability to create effortless 
cohesion between his two bodies of work 
is certainly a point of praise, it does come 
at a cost for the audience. Even though the director utilizes the same cast and references notable situations in his first series, he devotes 
little time to supplying with any contextual 
information regarding the story arc behind the film and the characters within. “El Camino” is a movie made under the assumption that the individuals viewing it have watched the entirety of “Breaking Bad” previously. Consequently, 
it is apparent that the film is made for a very 
niche audience, namely those who are not only watched the director’s infamous drug dealing crime drama but are also die-hard fans of it. 
“El Camino: A Breaking Bad Story” is a 
film that very much lives up to its title. It is a companion piece to the series “Breaking Bad” and cannot be understood or viewed without seeing the series that compelled its creation. Its 
ability to connect with the original show in terms 
of plot, themes, and character development is what makes the film so impressive. Yet this continuity between Gilligan’s two media 
ventures can be confusing for newer viewers 
unfamiliar with the universe. Hence, while “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie” is a stellar film, it takes an adequate understanding of “Breaking Bad” to truly comprehend and appreciate it.
 
—  aaron  hong
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
El  Camino: A  Breaking  Bad  Movie
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Director  Vince Gilligan
Starring  Aaron Paul
Release Date  October 11, 2019 on Net flix
Rated  TV-MACA-10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Now Approaching: Proper Etiquette for Public T ransit
5 Best Apps to Use While Waiting for and T aking the Shuttleby Colleen Conradi & Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editors
by Carla Altomere, Staff WriterEvery student that buses to campus will have their fair share 
of horror stories: Smelling your seat neighbor’s morning breath 
at 8:30 a.m., almost falling flat on your face when the bus takes a sharp turn, waiting for 30 minutes with a horde of angry students 
as crowded buses just pass you by. A bad bus experience can, at 
best, be a minor inconvenience, or at worst, ruin someone’s day.
As fellow bus commuters ourselves, we thought we would 
compile a list of things you should do (and things you shouldn’t do) for the next time you get on that 202. 
Without further ado, enjoy this helpful list of tips and tricks:1. When boarding the bus, please continue walking all the way 
down to the back — yes, we mean the very back — especially when it is going to end up being standing room only. It is impossible to walk around people and turns into quite the inconvenience for those getting on the bus. Plus, by doing this you’re letting more people get on the bus, and we all just want to get home, right? 
2. When getting off the bus, there is no need to hurry! Many 
times we have observed people trying to race to the doors. We would like to ask those people: How much time is that saving you? Instead of pushing your way through to the exit, allow things to flow naturally. You’re all going to end up waiting at the same crosswalk, anyway. 
3. When there is a large number of people waiting for the 
bus, a single file line is always much more efficient than waiting around in a group. If there is already a line formed when the bus arrives, go to the end of the line and wait your turn; there is no need to push or shove people to get on, especially when many of those people in line have been patiently watching full bus after full bus drive away. 
4. Before the bus arrives, have your Compass Cloud app 
queued up! There have been so many times when one student is holding up the line because their app isn’t loading, so for the sake of all of us, please try it out a few minutes before. 
5. Do not put the bag on the seat next to you. We shouldn’t 
even have to say this one. 6. To anyone that tries to drink their hot coffee/tea/whatever 
while they’re holding on to a pole with one hand, please don’t. It will inevitably spill and potentially scald you or someone else. Trust us, you can wait another five minutes for your latte. The 
same goes for juice, water, and any other liquid. 
7. If you’re standing, and you know you have a big backpack, 
be aware of where it is! I’ve been hit in the face with backpacks 
before, and it’s just a very uncomfortable experience.  
8. Also, if you’re tall, please wear deodorant. The short people 
that are pressed up against your armpit will thank you.
9. When you sit, scoot all the way into the window seat. Sitting 
in the aisle seat and leaving the window seat open is just mean. 
10. If you and your friend manage to get seats, great! But please 
don’t have a conversation over the aisle, especially if someone is standing between you. 
11. Thank your driver! They’ve probably been driving around 
irritated students all day, and they deserve a lot for being the humans that are taking us to and from class. A simple thank you is just a little token of appreciation we can give them.
I know, I know. The parking changes hit a lot of students very hard 
this quarter. I am now the proud owner of a Discount parking pass so I have to take the North Campus shuttle every day. Many students utilize all of the different shuttles to get around, even though we are always packed in like sardines after waiting 20 minutes for each shuttle to arrive. Here is an unequivocal list of the best apps to use while you have to wait for the shuttle: 
Tiny Tower Vegas Edition 
I know this game is old, but hear me out. The first time I played 
this game was probably around freshman year of high school. But 
recently, after re-downloading it, it definitely holds up. This game is 
perfect because you can accomplish a lot with only a few minutes of gameplay at a time. Your goal is to build a hotel with as many floors 
as possible, all while making money, restocking merchandise, and 
placing characters in their “dream jobs. ” The best part of the game is that you can play simple casino-style games within your tower once you build the casino floors. There are slots, poker, and 21. Also, Tiny Tower does not need an internet connection so you can play in the Regents parking lot where internet connection refuses to exist. 
Pokémon Go 
Even though a majority of people stopped playing soon after the 
initial release, Pokémon Go is still super fun and it gets updated regularly. This game is perfect for being on the bus because while stuck in traffic, the bus moves slow enough for you to walk your eggs. Each time you walk two to 10 kilometers, you can hatch different types of Pokémon for your collection. For me, it is very therapeutic to catch my favorite Pokémon and it is nice to have a game where you can collect things and build on your progress. Even when you are not on the bus, the campus also has lots of Pokéstops and lots of active players who participate in raids so it is a great place to get legendary Pokémon. CodyCross
CodyCross is a perfect game for people who love doing crossword 
puzzles but are really bad at crossword puzzles. There are tons and tons of levels and the clues are a good level of difficulty; mostly easy and fun but with a few in each puzzle to stump you. The levels are also themed and once you get through each “world” you get another theme to focus on. As you progress, you can gain coins to use in case you really need help figuring out the answer to a clue. CodyCross is a great way to pass the time while still feeling like you are using your brain.
Ballz
If you like arcade games, this is perfect for you. The objective is to 
collect more and more balls and then break blocks with them. If the 
blocks touch the ground before you break them, then you lose. This 
game always soaks up tons of time while you wait and it also does not need an internet connection. 
Goodreads
For not being a game, this app somehow takes up lots of my 
waiting time. Goodreads can function as social media if you want to 
add friends or interact with authors, but it can also be used without 
the pressure of interaction. If you have books, graphic novels, or authors that you have been meaning to read or follow, you can keep track of them by adding your favorite titles to lists. That way, if you ever do have time in the future to sit down and catch up on what you have been meaning to read, you have titles at your fingertips that you have already vetted and chosen in the past. Goodreads is also a great resource for new releases and well-thought-out reviews from real people. 
So, next time you are stuck waiting for the shuttle, try downloading 
one of these new apps, if you don’t already have one, and try to zone out for a few minutes, at least until you get safely to your destination.LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
GET INVOLVED
APPLY NOW FOR OPEN POSITIONS WITHIN ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Visit as.ucsd.edu to apply. Applications due: (10/4-11/1)• CHIEF OF STAFF
• MARKETING STRATEGIST
• GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS 
   DIRECTOR
• JUDICIAL BOARD MEMBER
AND MORE 
Varies by position 
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 10am-3pm
Wednesday: 11am-3pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-4pm
Friday: 1 2pm-5pmFALL 2019Consortium Holdings Projects is the 
company behind popular eateries such as 
False Idol, Noble Experiment, and, most recently, Raised by Wolves. Located in our very own UTC mall, the storefront is 
a liquor store, with the actual bar hidden 
in the back. 
The Drinks
Raised by W olves gets high marks for 
their inventive drinks. I got the Painted Lady, which had vodka, lime, aloe liqueur, snap peas, vermouth, and sea salt. I was very interested in how a vegetable could pair well with alcohol, but my drink ended up tasting like a refreshing green juice. Their menu is very long, so if you’re indecisive, consider perusing it before you go so you’re not overwhelmed. The waiters and waitresses are also helpful in offering suggestions if you know what kind of alcohol you like. They also have an assortment of seasonal drinks depending on when you go. 
The Ambiance
Walking past dark stores to get to R aised 
by Wolves is interesting — who would think of putting a trendy bar in a mall? That being said, the location is extremely convenient for students, especially if you live within walking distance as I do. To get into the speakeasy, you sit in these velvet chairs which are actually part of a large hidden turntable that slowly rotates you into the bar. It was a cool immersive experience — like I was being let in on a secret. Inside, the huge glass-domed 
ceiling, gold accents, and running fountain 
in the center of the circular bar definitely make you feel like you’re being transported back to the 1920s. It’s on the classier end, meaning that the crowd is older than your typical college bar, but that also means it’s an excuse to dress up a little. It does get pretty warm, probably because there are 
no windows, so at least you don’t have to 
worry about bringing an extra layer. 
The Price
Cocktails range anywhere from $9 to 
$15 per drink. For the quality and strength of the drinks, this isn’t too bad, though my wallet probably can’t handle that more than once every few months. It’s a great place for a special occasion — I went on my 21st birthday — or a date. 
Why You Should Go
For the innovative drinks and exquisite 
decor. When this speakeasy opened last year, it was the talk of the town. The hype has kind of died down a little, making it easier to get in, but I’ d still recommend making a reservation if you’re a big group.
Bite-Size Reviews is a short column 
featuring local eateries all over San Diego.
Bite-Size Reviews - Raised By Wolves
with Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  2 1 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
The Best Movies to Watch 
During Spooky Season
by Natalie Duprey, Lifestyle Staff Writer
My fellow Tritons, we are officially in the middle of 
the most frightening month of the year! I hope you all 
have been engaging in all of the essential Halloween time activities: Going to a pumpkin patch, decorating your home inside and out, finding a haunted house to visit, and planning out your costume for Halloween night! However, there is one part missing here, and that would be making time to watch your favorite spooky movies! If you’re like me and prefer to watch movies that don’t have much blood and gore, here is a list of my Halloween time go-to’s: 
The Haunted Mansion (2003) 
This one is a true childhood favorite! Inspired by the 
Disneyland ride of the same name, follow Eddie Murphy, cast as an eccentric realtor, as he takes his wife and kids to visit a possible listing, which turns out to be the haunted mansion! The plot has the perfect amount of comedy and mystery as the family tries to get out of the mansion in one piece. If you can’t make it to Disneyland to get on the ride 
before Halloween, this is the perfect solution!
House on Haunted Hill (1959) 
If you love classic movies in black and white, this might 
be the one for you. Vincent Price stars as a millionaire 
who owns the house and puts together a “party” of five handpicked strangers, where he promises $10,000 to 
whoever can last the whole night in the house. This movie 
features perfect old Hollywood drama, outdated sound effects, and laughably “scary” props and stunts. It’s an absolute must-see!
Beetlejuice (1988) 
This is also a movie that most of us have already 
seen, but it will never get old! In this film, after a couple (featuring Alec Baldwin and Geena Davis) passes away in a car accident, they begin to haunt the family who buys their 
house (featuring Winona Ryder as the daughter). Watch as 
the couple befriends Ryder’s character and eventually fight off an unwanted appearance from Beetlejuice himself!
The Birds (1963) 
This is yet another classic film that can be watched in 
both black and white or color, made by one of the most famous directors, Alfred Hitchcock. Watch a young San Franciscan socialite travel out to a small town in Bodega Bay for a small vacation. However, once she arrives, the town is suddenly taken over by countless, violent bird attacks. Though this does feature some of the cheesiness featured in “House on Haunted Hill, ” it is all done in a way that still provides enough suspense to keep you captivated! 
Monster House (2006) 
Unlike the other movies listed above, this one is 
completely animated, but absolutely does not disappoint. 
This film follows three kids as they observe the old man 
across the street. After noticing that the house he lives in seems to be a living being of its own, they go inside to put an end to it before it hurts anyone else. Though this is a 
children’s movie, you’re never too old to fall in love with it. 
With plenty of comedy, scares, and even some emotional scenes, this movie is a true Halloween essential!CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
9TH ANNUAL SUSTAINABLE FOOD EXPOOCTOBER 24 • 11am-2pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org2pm
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION 
FOR BEGINNERS - ERC ROOM
In this workshop, you will learn about the 
fascinating dimensions of intercultural communication! This workshop is designed to create awareness about the intercultural dimensions themselves, where you might fall on the spectrum regarding these dimensions, as well as where others might fall and reasons for doing so. This workshop will help you better understand your time at UC San Diego as well as prepare you to be global citizens and leaders. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu Website: https://getinvolved.ucsd.edu/ccl/leadership.html
5pm
LANGUAGE CONVERSATION TABLES 
(LCT) - GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
 Language Conversation Tables (LCT) is a weekly 
event where students can learn/practice a language in a casual and fun setting by conversing with a host. LCT has been one of I-House most popular events. It allows everyone to study a new language without too much time commitment. Furthermore, LCT participants can at the same time connect with people and cultures from all over the world. LCTs will happen EVERY TUESDAY, from 5-6PM at the Great Hall of International House. The languages for Fall 2019 LCT include.  Please RSVP before coming to your desired session: https://tinyurl.com/IHLCTF19 Contact: ihouseprograms@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/916990715335608/
5pm
CALAVERA WORKSHOP - PC WEST 
BALLROOM
University Centers Presents: Calavera Workshop 
Event Time: 5-7PM FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID Get SPOOKY Day of the Dead is just around the corner! Come out to PC Ballroom West to experience this tradition and make some sugar skulls. This event is partnered w/ Raza Resource Center! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/2343700065724546/
!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(
11am
9TH ANNUAL SUSTAINABLE FOOD 
EXPO - PRICE CENTER BALLROOM EAST
University Centers Presents: 9th Annual 
Sustainable Food Expo FREE tasting, plants, & more! When: Oct. 24 // 11AM-2PM Where: Price Center East Ballroom Open to everyone (not just UCSD students)! Special Presentations: 11:30 AM: Gardening Workshop 12:30 PM: Documentary: Sustainable University Centers presents the 9th Annual Sustainable Food Expo in celebration of National Food Month as well as transitioning towards a happy, healthy and nutritious Fall. Come and meet local and regional health care practitioners from all disciplines, sample scrumptiously healthy snacks, plant seeds to start your own garden, watch and participate in demonstrations, and explore endless possibilities for sustaining your mental and physical well-being. Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
HACKING FEARS AND REJECTION 
PROOFING YOURSELF! - BEAR ROOM
We all want to confidently ask out a date, break 
out of our comfort zones, or even chase our biggest life dream like starting a company. We also want to overcome our anxiety of rejection or failure, and defiantly ignore each no and maintain a deep inner confidence.TUE10.22
THU10.24
9am
OUTREACH HIKES POTATO CHIP 
ROCK - PICK UP: LOT P303 (NEW 
OVT )
Join Outreach as we hike Potato Chip Rock! Do 
you want the THRILL of sitting on a thinly cut potato chip rock? Do you want to add one of those artsy Instagram posts to your own addition? Join Outreach for an adventure to one of the most iconic sites of San Diego and relax after a stressful midterm week. The hike has medium difficulty yet preparation such as water, snacks, energy bars and comfortable hiking gear is highly recommended. (Gotta stay hydrated y'all ) Transportation will be provided. Please arrive at least 15 minutes earlier than bus time! Contact: fguan@ucsd.edu Website: https://www.facebook.com/events/2328094353965768/?active_tab=about
6pm
BIRCH AQUARIUMS HAUNTED 
AQUARIUM: SEA MONSTER MASH - 
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Enjoy close encounters with Scripps 
Oceanography scientists and search the exhibits for unusual underwater creatures rarely seen at Birch Aquarium. Discover a sea of glowing monsters (big and small), get sticky with slime, enjoy spooky stories, and boo-gie down to live music, all while having a monstrously good time. Recommended for ages 2+.SAT10.26MON10.21
UCDC SPRING 2020 PRIORITY 
DEADLINE - TEACHING + LEARNING 
COMMONS @ GEISEL
UCDC is an academic program that allows 
students to continue their studies and gain 
valuable on-the-job experience. Open to all 
majors, Washington, DC hosts extraordinary 
internship opportunities in every field. Submit 
your UCDC Application by 10/21 for early 
consideration into the UCDC program! Contact: 
ucdc@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://aip.ucsd.edu/ucdc
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcome! Yoga Mats are provided! 
Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
1pm
PRISON PIPELINE AND PRACTICES - 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This workshop address the prison industrial 
complex and highlights the impact of 
communities and economies. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://getinvolved.ucsd.edu/ccl/leadership.html
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM - 
WOMEN'S CENTER, SMALL GROUP 
ROOM
Starting Week 2, join CAPS and LGBT Resource 
Center for conversations about our experiences as 
gay men. This forum addresses relationships, 
sexual health, community building, and more! 
Contact: Dr. Greg Koch 858-534-3585 or 
gkoch@ucsd.edu. 
3pm
RELAXATION SKILLS - CAPS 
CENTRAL OFFICE, 190 GALBRAITH 
HALL
Come Spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
6pm
BIRCH AQUARIUMS HAUNTED 
AQUARIUM: SEA MONSTER MASH - 
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Come Enjoy close encounters with Scripps 
Oceanography scientists and search the exhibits for unusual underwater creatures rarely seen at Birch Aquarium. Discover a sea of glowing monsters (big and small), get sticky with slime, enjoy spooky stories, and boo-gie down to live music, all while having a monstrously good time. Recommended for ages 2+.FRI10.25WED10.23Price Center East Ballroom
11:30am
OVERLOAD: AMERICAS TOXIC 
LOVE STORY FILM SCREENING – 
GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Celebrate Campus Sustainability Month by 
joining us for a screening of Overload: Americas Toxic Love Story. This documentary uncovers 
how we got to be so overloaded with chemicals 
and if there is anything we can do to take 
control of our exposure. Can we hit the reset button, or is it too late? The film screening is free and open to the public. The film is 90 minutes long, so feel free to leave early or come late to accommodate your schedule. Bring your lunch, and well have drinks and dessert! Contact: gasingh@ucsd.edu Website: https://library.ucsd.edu/news-events/events/overload/
2pm
R&R SQUAD AND BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE IN PC PLAZA NEXT TO JAMBA JUICE
Join us for a de-stress power hour on 
Wednesday from 2-3pm. Learn some muscle relaxation techniques and practice deep breathing exercise with Biofeedback. Receive low intensive body works (back/shoulder rubs) from the R&R Squad. Questions? Contact the Zone at (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu. Website: https://wellness.ucsd.edu/zone/Pages/default.aspx
2pm
FIND IT AND FUND IT - RED SHOE 
ROOM, PRICE CENTER WEST
Join a panel of students and expert staff for a Q 
& A on strategies for discovering and funding summer research, internship, and service opportunities. Learn how your peers made it happen! NOW is the time to plan for Summer 2020. Contact: eloui@ucsd.eduTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
OCT 21 - OCT 27
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
POPULAR FOODSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Host’s request
5. Tube alternative9. Kitchen amt.
13. Rocky Mountain state
14. Sacred
15. Homeric seductress16. Skeletal17. Source
18. German sub
19. Blabbed
22. Its capital is Vientiane23. Versifier24. Twain portrayer Holbrook
26. Electrician’s measure
28. Prevailed
29. Plumber’s pipe material (Abbr.)32. First White House occupant34. Computer symbol
36. Hog that goes wild
37. Four escapees from 19-Across
40. Grassy expanses41. Wiener schnitzel requirement42. Enjoyed thoroughly43. Blow it44. Bridge opening45. Geisha’s accessory47. Salon job48. Lick50. Wall Street collapse52. Four escapees from 19-Across59. Sharpened60. Slithery critters61. Opera set in Egypt62. Exudes63. Filler for some guns64. Like most sweaters65. Eve’s grandson66. Parodied67. ‘’Permit Me Voyage’’ author JamesDOWN
1. Chafes2. Discontinue3. Two escapees from 19-Across
4. Taxonomic group
5. Get the grain
6. Quarter-acre measure7. Scads8. Old wives’ tale
9. Roman bank site?
10. Three escapees from 19-Across
11. Read, as a bar code12. Cats and hamsters15. Like many sought-after cigars
20. Unfettered
21. Wood used for piano keys
24. Berry found in films25. Freud colleague27. Quarried
28. ‘’To the Lighthouse’’ novelist
30. Appraiser’s determination
31. Burial chamber33. Part of a new bride’s name, often35. Govt. headed by Davis36. Daily double, e.g.38. Madonna role39. Two-faced gatekeeper44. In the ‘40s they were Big46. Used improperly, as a privilege49. They’ll keep you on guard51. Zulu warrior king52. Oxford, for one53. High time?54. Former Chevy model55. Sharp bark56. ‘’Rhapsody in ___’’57. Falco of ‘’The Sopranos’’58. Desert-grown fruitINTERNSHIPS
VP Rewards Digital Product/ Journey 
Owner - We are seeking a talented, 
imaginative, and experienced individual 
who is passionate about designing best 
in class experiences across all custom -
er touch-points and channels for the Rewards experience (key value proposi -
tion driver for using Citi’s credit card). The ideal candidate will be intimately familiar with Agile acumen and prac -
tices, and can lead and/or participate in technical requirements discussion and can translate between technology 
and ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Claim Re Trainee Outside Property 
- This is an entry level position that 
requires satisfactory completion of required training to advance to Claim Professional Outside Property CAT posi -
tion. This position is intended to devel -
op skills for investigating, evaluating, negotiating….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
DB Marketing Project Manager - Citi 
Cards North America (N.A.) is the mar -
ket leader in the credit card industry. With a pre-eminent global brand and distribution, Citi Cards N.A. maintains its 
leadership position by delivers indus -
try-leading products, advanced services 
and payment….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationBIKES
$500 amazing motorized bike - Hello 
today I’m selling motor bike, these 
things get 150-180 mis per-gallon they 
are perfect if you just lost your license 
or if you aren’t old enough to drive, or 
maybe you just like to cruise along the 
beach and get a ton of complements 
these are totally legal, easy to work on 
and very safe. I can build any motor any color exactly what you want ( extra 
cost ). Right now I’m starting to build….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
High Torque Electric Fat Bike  - Superior 
Quality *** NEW 52v 1500w High End 
Electric Fat Bike - Professionally built 
- Will run circles around weak factory 
built bikes and last three times lon -
ger LITHIUM ION BATTERIES - 25+ MILE 
RANGE….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2018 Evil Wreckoning-medium - 2018. 
Premium build with limited use...maybe 
25 rides in total. Carbon everything! The DELTA suspension remains the standard by which others are judged. XO1 1295 
Eagle cassette, XO1 cranks shifters, shift -
ers, ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
CARS2020 Ram 1500 Rebel - 2020 Ram 1500, 
4D Crew Cab, Price includes the follow -
ing rebates and incentives: $1,000 - 2020 
National Retail Consumer Cash 20CL1. 
Exp. 10/31/2019, $1,000 - 2020 Truck 
Owner Conquest Bonus Cash 38CL7. 
Exp. 10/31/2019, $500 - 2020 Retail 
Bonus Cash 20CLA1. Exp. 10/31/2019, 
$500 - Chrysler Capital 2020 Bonus Cash 20CL5. Exp. 10/31/2019 Stack up to 4 
$250 coupons on….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2016 Cadillac CT6 Luxury AWD for 
sale - Features: Cadillac Cue Info And Media Control System With Embedded 
Navigation, Comfort Package, Emissions, 
California State Requirements, Engine, 
3.6L V6, Sidi, Dual overhead cam, Vvt With Automatic Stop/Start, Enhanced Vision And Comfort Package, Graphite Metallic, License Plate Front Mounting Package, Light Platinum With Jet Black Accents, Leather Seating Surfaces ….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
New 2020 Volvo XC60 T5 FWD - Heated 
Leather interior, NAV, Sunroof, Power 
Liftgate, iPod/MP3 Input, Panoramic Roof, PREMIUM PACKAGE, MULTIMEDIA PACKAGE, WHEELS: 19 5-DOUBLE-
SPOKE ALLOY, DENIM BLUE METALLIC, 
Back-Up Camera, Turbo, HEATED FRONT 
SEATS & HEATED STEERING.. BLOND, LEATHER SEATING SURFACES W/BLO... EPA 29 MILES-PER-GALLON Hwy/22 MILES-PER-GALLON City! Denim Blue Metallic exterior ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
.com/ucsdguardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Over the past few years, 
painkillers and opioids have found 
their way into sports news more 
and more o ften. For the first time in 
recent memory, these sorts of drugs are being mentioned in connection 
to sports more o ften than steroids.
This is a very troubling trend.
From José Fernández in 2016 
to Tyler Skaggs just a few months ago, the opioid crisis has wormed 
its way into Major League Baseball 
locker rooms, or so it seems. While 
public consciousness of the major 
league opioid crisis is only now coming to fruition, hard pain killers 
and sports have been connected for 
quite some time out of the public 
eye.
In recent decades, sports have 
grown more competitive and 
more lucrative for the athletes who compete in them, and so has the 
physical toll these “games” exact.  
As the stakes have gotten higher 
in sports, high school and college athletes have been seeking every 
possible advantage they can find 
in order to secure scholarships and professional contracts in hopes of a future in sports.
While this has created an 
enormous economic boom 
surrounding sports, from television 
to social media, and from ticketing to the literal jobs created by building and filling a stadium, it 
has left behind millions of has-been 
athletes, worn down by injuries 
and the wear and tear of a modern 
sports season.
In dealing with this grind of a 
season, many, if not all athletes, have experienced injuries, from the 
high school level all the way up to 
the professional leagues. While this 
should not come as a surprise, the 
prevalence of opioid painkillers 
across all of these levels might.
For many athletes, the only legal 
way to deal with the excruciating 
pain their injuries cause them is by 
obtaining prescription medication. 
These opioids that are generally 
required are addictive and are not especially di fficult to obtain even 
once the initial injury goes away 
due to a flooded secondary market.
If players do not become 
addicted, they may still rely upon 
these drugs to deal with the countless nagging injuries that 
come up during a regular schedule 
of games. Now factor in chronic 
injuries that o ften go undisclosed 
to show coaches their toughness 
as well as any other number of 
injuries, and players seem almost 
justified in abusing painkillers.
Obviously, this should not be the solution to athletic injury. There are 
potential ways to combat this crisis though. All levels of sports could 
shorten their seasons, hire more 
trainers and therapists, and try to 
limit the contact permissible within 
the rules of their games. Many 
sports leagues, from high school all the way to the NFL, NBA, and 
NHL, have already taken minor 
steps in this direction.
But in the end, these leagues 
all serve to make their parent 
institutions money, from the 
NCAA to a local high school that needs more money for its arts 
programs. With so much money 
in sports today, asking owners and 
players to spend even more money 
on their physical well-being could 
be a tough sell. But if you tack on 
all of the remedial drug therapy and rehabilitation center costs, 
then maybe these costs would seem 
more justi fiable, right?
Maybe for the players themselves, 
but most leagues do not have luxurious rehabilitation centers 
built-in for current players, let 
alone retired players, and certainly not for players who did not make 
it to college or professional leagues.
The low-cost answer?Marijuana.
I am not an advocate for marijuana in general. I don’t smoke or have anything to do with the 
drug. But it certainly has been more 
harshly criminalized by the federal 
government than its e ffects warrant. 
And on top of that, marijuana and marijuana-related products already 
can be used medicinally and recreationally in many states.
Why can’t marijuana, a non-
addictive pain limiter, take the 
place of addictive drugs?
The penalties for their use are 
often the same. An athlete caught 
smoking marijuana at any level 
could face suspension and he fty, 
both of which cost athletes valuable time on the field to practice and to 
earn money.
In order for marijuana to become 
a viable mainstream pain reliever for athletes, which athletes around the world are advocating for today, 
the restrictions surrounding the 
drug will need to be lessened, first 
in terms of sports rules, and then 
in federal legislation. If those steps 
take place, athletes around the 
world could be spared the costly 
and crippling cycle of addiction.
NOVEMB ER 11-15,  2019andHUNGER
HOUSELE SSNESS
AWA RENESS WEEKfacebook.c om/
tritonfoodpa ntry as.uc sd.edu b asic need s.ucsd .ed uTriton 
Timeout
Painkiller trend 
in major league 
sports and a 
potential solutionWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu
▶ BRIEFS , from page 16
Jon Pascale 90, 90, and 58 minutes 
respectively, continuing to prove that they could be counted on late in the season. 
With the win, the men’s team 
moves to 10–3 overall, and 5–2 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play, good for second in the conference. Their next 
game will be against California State University, Stanislaus, who are struggling in CCAA games, sporting a 0–7 record. 
Like the men’s team, the UCSD 
women’s soccer team also took care of business during Homecoming Weekend. Freshman midfielder and forward Kate Hottinger got the festivities started just before halft ime scoring her first goal of 
the season, which turned out to be the final goal of the game as well. 
Although the Tritons only won 
by a score of 1–0, they dominated all facets of the games once again. They had advantages in shots, 
shots on target, and corners; the most telling statistic was the disparity of possession time, with the Tritons controlling the ball for 61 percent of the game. This 
women’s team displayed their ability to take over a game and showed Homecoming game fans why they are undefeated and atop the conference standings with an 11–0–1 overall record and a 6–0–1 record in CCAA. The women’s 
team will look to keep it rolling on Sunday at home against third-place Stanislaus State.
Ha yden  wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd,edu
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
@ Sonoma State
vs. Air Forcevs. CSU San Marcosvs. CSU San MarcosUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball 
M Water Polo 
W Soccer
M Soccer7PM6PM
4:30PM
7PM10/2410/2510/2310/23
It began — as these things 
often do — on Twitter. Houston 
Rockets General Manager Daryl 
Morey tweeted a picture “Fight 
for Freedom. Stand with Hong 
Kong” on Oct. 4. What started 
as a pro-democracy tweet by an 
executive most NBA fans couldn’t pick out of a lineup quickly turned 
into a firestorm at the intersection 
of sports and politics. In doing so, the fans have provided the 
current generation of superstars a 
battleground for protest in which 
there’s real cash at stake — and the ramifications will a ffect all future 
political speech coming from the sports world.
Activism is nothing new in 
sports, but the current generation 
of superstars have avenues to 
express themselves that were 
inaccessible to those before them. 
But that trend has been coupled 
with a rapid monetization of 
players’ public personas. There 
is no better example of this than 
LeBron James’s recent attempt 
to trademark “Taco Tuesday. ” 
Combined with the NBA ’s rise 
globally, it was only a matter of time before politics and finance 
came into conflict.
Which brings us back, of course, 
to Daryl Morey. Within days, the Rockets joined Winnie the Pooh 
and Tiananmen Square among the 
casualties of the Great Firewall of China; China Central Television 
and Tencent Holdings Limited 
stopped airing Rockets games, 
and the Chinese government 
asked the NBA to fire Morey. 
When the league refused, every Chinese sponsor terminated their deals, and the TV ban extended to 
all games. While that ban has now 
ended, the Rockets remain o ff the 
air.
As for the NBA ecosystem, 
the responses have been mixed. Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr and star player Stephen 
Curry gave noncommittal 
statements, despite being on the 
forefront of the league’s political 
zeitgeist. Rockets star James Harden even apologized for 
Morey’s comments. But the most 
inexplicable comments came from the greatest current NBA player, 
James, who criticized Morey as “uneducated” on the issue and for being selfi sh by risking league 
interests. 
It might be too far to call 
players hypocritical, as some have, 
for being vehemently anti-Trump 
— James famously called the 
president “U bum” in a 2017 tweet 
— and yet remaining silent about 
China. A fter all, one can sense 
players’ discomfort when asked 
about a foreign protest movement 
they’re likely uninformed about. 
But it delegitimizes future NBA activism — most of it being positive — if players submit to 
such a clear attack on the league. 
As for James, Fox News’s Laura 
Ingraham was wrong to say he should just “shut up and dribble” 
last February. But that would’ve 
been preferable to James’s 
comments, who condemned 
Morey, while those in Hong Kong, Xinjiang, and across China 
face draconian human rights 
violations daily speak louder than 
LeBron ever could.
It’s futile to ask billion-dollar corporations to worry about anything other than their bottom 
lines, even the NBA. But the players face a responsibility today 
that they will o ften face again, 
and appeasement can only defer it. Maybe it’s unfair to make this 
comparison, but since James was 
willing to monetize “shut up and 
dribble” into a documentary of that name about the history of sports 
activism, it’s one he’s welcomed. 
Muhammad Ali gave up the 
prime of his career to protest the 
draft. Colin Kaepernick lost his career protesting police brutality. 
Tommie Smith and John Carlos 
were expelled from the 1968 Olympics for protesting racial 
injustice. To James, it seems Space 
Jam 2 was more important. But to 
the rest of the league, we can only 
ask: What are you willing to lose?
Women’s Volleyball makes 
quick work of Homecoming 
weekend opponents
The UC San Diego women’s 
volleyball team celebrated 
Homecoming Weekend by putting together back-to-back wins against California Collegiate Athletic Association opponents California State University, Chico Wildcats and California State University, Stanislaus Warriors.
In the first game on Friday, the 
Tritons swept the Wildcats 3–0. Outside of the final set, where 
Chico State made a comeback attempt, UCSD was in solid control of the entire match. That 
continued into Saturday, as UCSD took four sets to defeat Stanislaus State 3–1.
Senior middle blocker Jessica 
Rieble emerged as the Tritons’ offensive leader. Rieble put up a 
team-high 29 kills o ff 44 attempts, 
good for a 59.1-percent hitting percentage. Junior outside hitter Gina Cortesi has returned to form after sustaining an ankle injury 
a week ago. Cortesi recorded 16 kills on 45 attempts and 13 digs in the two games. 
With the two wins this weekend, 
the Tritons climb to 13–6 overall and 7–4 in CCAA play. However, UCSD’s conference ranking remains the same as last week: The Tritons currently sit in fourth 
place in CCAA South Division. The three teams above the Tritons — California State University, San Bernardino, California State University, Los Angeles, and California State University, San Marcos — also added two wins to their records this weekend. 
This coming week, the Tritons 
will head out on the road to face off against two more CCAA North 
Division teams: California State University, Sonoma and California State University, Humboldt. Expect UCSD to cruise past the Sonoma State Seawolves and Humboldt State Lumberjacks — who have combined for only two conference wins and 10 total wins on the season — but stay tuned next week when UCSD will see much stiff er competition. The Tritons face o ff against division 
rivals CSUSM and CSULA at home. All three of these teams are within one game of each other in the standings, and so the second playoff spot in the CCAA South 
Division could come down to whoever wins those games.Men’s, Women’s Soccer open 
Homecoming with shutout wins
The UC San Diego men’s and 
women’s soccer teams came out victorious this past Friday, both beating California State University, Chico 1–0. 
The men’s team, looking to build 
off their 9–3 record, was led by 
redshirt junior goalkeeper Pedro Enciso who had 4 saves. Junior forward Brett Jones notched the only goal of the contest in the 32nd minute o ff an assist from 
freshman midfielder Cory Daley. Freshman midfielders Daley, Cooper Lachenbrunch, and Alessandro Allen gave head coach In a ceremony held on Oct. 20, 
UC San Diego Athletics welcomed 
Leora Juster, Mike Nalu, and Sheri 
Takeuchi into its seventh Hall of 
Fame class. Between them, the 
inductees have won three national 
titles, 12 All-America Honors, and hold several school records; 
they spoke about the eff orts they 
put into athletics, the rewards they reaped, and the relationships they 
cultivated along the way at their 
induction ceremony on Sunday, 
Oct. 20.
The three honorees were selected 
after an extensive nomination 
and selection process. All former 
student-athletes who spent at least 
two years at UCSD and have been 
out of the program for 10 years are 
eligible. “It’s an opportunity for us to share with others — alumni, 
family members, and friends — 
the history of our program. It’s just a chance to tell a story about athletics, ” said Athletic Director Earl Edwards, who is nearing his 
20th year on the job.  
Basketball star Leora Juster 
(2003-2007) still has her name 
all over the school’s record books; she is UCSD’s all-time leader in 
points and field goals in both a 
season and a career, second in career steals, and third in career 
assists. “It o ffers us an opportunity 
to really look back over a decade after leaving and remember the 
experiences that you shared with 
these people, ” Juster said of the 
honor. 
After being introduced by 
her former coach, Jenell Jones, 
Juster spoke about how her time 
on the team helped her build relationships and an elevated 
sense of purpose. “It’s easier to say 
there’s so little that it didn’t help me with, since it changed who I am inside, and developed me in terms of getting along with other 
people, and leading, ” Juster said. 
Mike Nalu (1991-93, 1995) 
also sits atop the UCSD water 
polo record books in scoring and steals, in addition to his 
three WWPA Player of the Y ear 
and All-American honors. “It’s 
been wonderful to get my family 
involved, ” Nalu said. “I have two 
boys and having them in this has 
been really fun. ”
Nalu and his coach, the 
legendary Denny Harper, had glowing praise for one another. 
“[Harper’s] a real high character, 
high integrity guy, and surrounds 
himself with people like that — 
you’re only going to find good 
results from that, ” Nalu said. 
Harper, on the other hand, said, 
“There are a lot of kids out there that you would say are shooters. But I like to get players who are scorers. And Mike is the epitome 
of a scorer. ” Nalu also spoke about 
the skills playing water polo gave 
him: “Sports just teaches you how 
to compete, how to take loss, how to persevere when things don’t go 
well — and it all translates in the 
real world. ”
Diver Sheri Takeuchi (1993-96) 
is no stranger to accolades — she 
won three national titles, seven 
All-America honors, and twice broke the national 3-meter record 
during her time at UCSD. “It’s 
been really great to look back on 
those years and remember all the 
fun we had, all the hard work and 
camaraderie, ” Takeuchi said of the 
award. 
She mentioned the physical and 
mental eff ort it took to maintain 
her place among the nation’s best for all four years of her collegiate diving career, aided by her parents and coaches. “It helped me 
learn focus, time management, 
perseverance, tenacity — things 
that I try to teach my kids. Not 
just the accomplishments and the successes, but also the failures. ” 
The ceremony included many 
of the honoree’s friends, family, 
and teammates, as well as current 
and past UCSD coaches. In Juster, 
Nalu, and Takeuchi, it brought 
together many of the school’s greatest athletes to celebrate 
success — a theme that will surely 
continue as the Tritons seek to 
establish themselves as a Division 
I program.
Daryl Morey, Hong Kong, and 
the Limits of Sports ActivismUCSD Inducts Juster, Nalu, and Takeuchi 
into Seventh Hall of Fame Class
Pra veen  Nair  prNair@ucsd,edu
Wesel y  xiao  wex057@ucsd,eduPra veen  Nair  prNair@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sports Briefs
See BRIEFS,  page 15