Black Lives Matter co-founder and Thurgood 
Marshall College alumna Alicia Garza gave a talk to a crowd of nearly 200 students, 
staff, and faculty in the Price Center Ballroom on Feb. 26 as part of both the Marshall College Speakers Series and the celebration of Black History Month., As the second speaker in this years’ series, the activist 
demystified the Black Lives Matter movement and 
called for intersectionality and solidarity to address current and recurring social issues.
Recognizing that the evening was also the seven-
year anniversary of the murder of Trayvon Martin by 
George Zimmerman, Garza began the discussion by 
asking the crowd for a moment of silence in honor of the Martin family. She then went on to list other black people who have been arguably murdered under 
objectionable circumstances, specifically Sandra Bland, 
Renisha McBride, Jordan Davis, and Michael Brown.
“It’s not just what happens in those instances that 
Black Lives Matter cares about, ” Garza said. “It’s about combating anti-black racism and state violence, which 
takes many forms. ”
Speaking on the topic of the Black Lives Matter 
movement, Garza also carried out what she called a 
“myth-busting” of the movement. She stressed that the 
movement was not anti-cop or anti-white and was not 
a terrorist organization.
“Nobody is talking about hating anybody, ” Garza 
affirmed. “We’re talking about solving problems. ”
In addressing “Blue Lives Matter” as a term that, 
alongside “ All Lives Matter, ” has become a reactionary one to “Black Lives Matter, ” Garza was notably empathetic to police officers.
“They have hard jobs, ” Garza said. “[A police officer 
is] not supposed to be a social worker, and a therapist, and a drug counselor. That’s not actually your job. But because of the ways that we prioritize resources, we put social services in places where they don’t belong, with people who cannot, by themselves, deliver the services that people need. This creates a pretty untenable situation, doesn’t it?”
Continuing her talk on how Black Lives Matter is 
not anti-cop, Garza argued that the movement was oriented instead at problem-solving.
“Calling out issues that we need to address does 
not equal hating police, ” Garza said. “Those are two separate conversations. ”
In turning toward politics, Garza claimed that 
voters have “one shot” in November 2020 to obtain the future they want. She voiced her support for the 
Green New Deal, condemned voter suppression, and 
called for more involvement in the voting process. Specifically, she called for students to register to vote here in San Diego as opposed to in their hometowns.
“California is one of the first primaries, ” Garza 
pointed out. “If your mail-in ballot goes home, like where you came from before you came here, and you don’t regularly get it, that means you’re probably not going to vote. ”
After receiving a standing ovation for her talk, 
Garza began the question and answer section of the evening.One question submitted from the crowd asked how to navigate spaces of opposition. Garza responded 
simply, “Be nice. ”
“Solidarity is a verb, ” Garza said to the crowd. “It’s 
not a brand. It’s not a coat that we can put on and take 
off when it’s most convenient. ” 
Garza emphasized that the movement to combat 
systemic problems that have drastically negative impacts on people of color is not an exclusively black movement, but a humanistic one. 
Garza also answered questions on how non-
black allies can support black liberation without appropriating black culture, how to execute activism on a college campus, and how UC San Diego can support the movement.
Unused dining dollars from the current academic year will now roll 
over into the fall of 2019, Housing 
Dining Hospitality announced in an email to students in January. This, along with the restructuring of dining 
plans, were created as a result of a 
student survey sent out during Fall 2018.
Three new dining plans will replace the current four: a $5,100 and a $3,400 year-long plan for both first-year and continuing students, as well as a $1,700 plan only available to continuing students. With the price of one meal in 
a dining hall averaging $10, these plans 
allow for 15, 10, and five meals a week respectively.
Additionally, HDH has 
implemented a dining dollar rollover policy effective immediately that will allow students with dining dollars from the 2018-19 school year to carry them over into Fall Quarter 2019. UC San Diego is the first UC campus to have such a rollover policy; all other campuses require students to use up their equivalent to dining dollars by 
the end of the academic year.
These changes are the product 
of recent student criticism of the 
previously-offered dining plans. 
Chetana Thapetta, a sophomore from 
John Muir College, noted that the VOLUME 52, ISSUE 19  MONDA Y , MARCH 4, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Fall 2018 Signing 
Bonuses Yet to Be Received by Student Workers
This is just one of several incidents 
of payroll problems systemwide. 
HDH
New Policy Rolls Extra Dining Dollars to Next Academic Year
A neon light shines inside Taco Villa, where a theft occured around Presidents’ Day // Photo by James SongMany academic student workers 
at UC San Diego have still not 
received signing bonuses due to 
them from Fall Quarter 2018.
John Sarracino, the Head Steward 
of with United Auto WorkersUAW 
at UC San Diego, explained that 
within the most recent negotiation 
with UCSD, students employed in Fall Quarter 2018 would receive a $100 signing bonus. 
According to Sarracino, not 
many people are aware of this issue. 
“ At the moment, UCSD’s position 
is that the issue doesn’t exist, ” stated Sarracino said. “We are currently 
going through a grievance period 
—- a contract isn’t respected, so we have to go back and forth with UCSD with issues not being upheld. ” 
Some students were able to get 
their bonuses; however, this still didn’t fix the problem.
“We reached out to our 
membership to see if they received a 
bonus, then we took a list of people 
to the labor relations division of the UCSD administration,” Sarracino said. “The UCSD 
administrationAdministration 
looked at specific people and handled specific instances but didn’t investigate a broader claim. ”
The UAW investigated this issue 
at other campuses as well. 
“We filed a complaint over 
the local campus and asked our 
membership whether they had 
received this payment, ” Sarracino explained. “With some campuses, there has been a positive interaction: - they are actually performing an 
audit. To be honest, UCSD and 
UCSB haven’t been very helpful. ” 
The administration has claimed 
that it they will fix the issue by the 
March paycheck. 
Sarracino also informed the 
UCSD Guardian of another issue 
regarding late or incomplete paychecks for academic student 
workers across UC cCampuses..
The University of California 
Office of the President sent out a 
joint statement with the Uunion of Aacademic Sstudent Eemployees 
(UAW 2865) on Feb. 25 regarding 
compensation for academic student payroll issues that occured Fall 2018. 
During September 2018, 
UCPath, a new payroll system which had already been implemented at UC Merced and UC Riverside, was implemented at UC Santa Barbara and UCLA. Thise implementation 
of the system caused payroll issues 
for hundreds of academic student workers. Around 150 academic student workers didn’t receive 
payments or were paid the incorrect 
amount for their work. By Tyler faurot  news editorCAMPUS
Black Lives Matter Co-Founder Alicia Garza Speaks on CampusPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
As it centers on the 
experiences of migrants, 
the MMFRP o ffers a 
refreshing break from 
the politician-dominated 
media representations of 
the immigration debate.
VEGANISM   DEBATE
THE  BEST  MIGOMea tless  Monda ys
Atlanta  H i p  H o pOpinion,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page 11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“I think now is the 
time where we need 
to reflect on what 
may have been, in my 
humble opinion, one of 
the greatest decades 
of style to ever happen: 
the early 2000’s.”MONDAY
 H 62 L 50
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 58
TUESDAY
H 67 L 57
THURSDAY
H 65 L 55
BIDETS.............................4
2000’S FASHION..............8
CUCO..............................11
VAGINA MONOLOGUES.12
UCSD BASKETBALL.......16UCSD
Colleen Conradi
PAGE 8Housing Dining Hospitality also announced four new dining dollar plans meant to better meet student needs.
BY  jacob sutherland
Contributing writerBY  tanaya sawant
staff Wrter INSIDE TIJUANA’S
MIGRANT SHELTERS
Features, page 6
See HDH,  page 3 See PAYROLL,  page 2
Not receiving timely payments 
had detrimental financial effects on 
students. 
Students were “struggling to 
pay rent, tuition, and other time-sensitive payments that would otherwise be taken care of with 
biweekly or monthly paychecks,” 
according to an article by FEMFem Magazine.  
FEMem Magazine implied 
that the administration had not been helpful when students asked questions about their paychecks. For example, theThe article explained that the administrators would say 
that they are looking into the issue 
without any promise of a solution. 
Students were given advice on 
how to acquire food stamps in the 
meantime. 
“Student workers have received 
emails from their bosses providing various food-related resources, such 
as the Santa Monica Food Bank, the CPO Food Closet, and how to apply for food stamps through CalFresh, ”  the article stated. 
Sarracino explained that 
it was a long fight and that the administration took a while to even admit the issue, as evident with itsthe statement released this past 
Monday. 
“Today, both sides have reached 
an agreement to resolve academic student employee grievances about 
outstanding payroll issue,.” the statement said. “Eeach affected academic student employee will receive $150 (net after taxes). ”
Sarracino stated that one of the 
issues was that student’s didn’t know that they could go somewhere else to get their paychecks. No one had a clear idea of where to go. 
An exact date to resolve this 
issue has not yet been provided.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS 4 By Michi Sora
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. “We were 
gonna f--- on the beach then her dad got cancer.”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Taco Villa, the Mexican 
restaurant located in UC San Diego’s 
Old Student Center, was the scene of 
a break-in that happened over the 
Presidents’ Day weekend. According to one of Taco Villa’s owners, Felix Calderon, the burglary likely 
occurred after the restaurant closed 
that Saturday evening, Feb. 16th. 
On Tuesday morning around 
6:30 a.m., an employee at Taco Villa discovered that one of the screen 
windows had been forcibly pried 
opened from the outside. Once opened, the burglar was able to fit through and enter the establishment. 
Fingerprints were found all over the 
glass portion of the window, the worker told the UCSD Guardian. 
Approximately $400 to $500 was 
taken from the cash register. No other items were stolen, and the 
damage was limited.
Taco Villa has already filed a 
police report regarding the incident. 
The restaurant hopes to improve its security by upgrading the 
indoor cameras and by installing 
a new alarm system. They’ve also requested the installation of more outdoor security cameras around 
the Old Student Center from UCSD 
administration.
This is the first time that Taco 
Villa has been broken into. The Art of Espresso coffee cart outside 
Mandeville Auditorium similarly 
reported a break-in over the same weekend, although it is unknown if the two incidents are related.
Taco Villa first opened its doors 
to the public in September 2016, offering students an alternative to the Mexican food served at Rubio’s in Price Center. “Me and my partner are just 
business guys trying to give our best service to UCSD, ” Calderon said. “It really hurts us. We work hard and we’re just a small business. ” 
Genesis Campbell, a freshman 
from Earl Warren College, was shocked when she heard that a break-in happened at Taco Villa. 
“It’s really scary that something 
like this can even happen on a college campus, ” Campbell told the Guardian.
Sam Belfer, one of the co-owners 
of The Art of Espresso, told the 
Guardian that the Old Student 
Center has always been a relatively “calm” and “safe” area for businesses.
“Taco Villa is the first time that 
I’ve heard of a robbery here in 20 years, ” Belfer said. “ As far as I know, I have not heard of any additional [incidents of] crime or property loss. ”According to the 2018 UCSD 
Annual Security Report & Fire Safety Report, 55 incidents of on-campus burglary were reported between 2015 and 2017. 
No suspect has been apprehended 
by police as of yet. Calderon is asking for the support of UCSD’s student body in the search. 
“If you see anything out of the 
ordinary, please call UCSD police, ” Calderon said.
Anyone with information 
regarding this incident is encouraged to contact the UCSD 
Police Department through their 
anonymous tip reporting tool.
UCSD Police Investigate Break-In at Taco Villa that Resulted in Theft of  Hundreds of  Dollars 
BY  Troy Tuquero 
Contributing Writer
tanaya sawant  tsawant@ucsd.edutroy tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.edu
Student Workers on Other UC Campuses Received Emails Recommending They Apply for Food Stamps
▶ PAYROLL , from page 1NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC COMMUNICATION, MUSIC, MATH, ANTHROPOLOGY MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES, ENGLISH, ACCOUNTING HUMANITIES, ACCOUNTING, COMMUNICATIONENGLISH, ANTHROPOLOGY,  MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIES
HUMANITIES, COMMUNICATION, MATH, ENGLISH
ANTHROPOLOGY, MATH, MUSIC, MEDIA STUDIESENGLISH, ACCOUNTING, HUMANITIES, MUSIC 
ONLINE
6-Week Session  | May 20 -June 29
foothill.edu/secondspringTake a GE class online with Foothill College.
High quality. Quick. Convenient.
previous lack of a rollover policy was 
an issue for many students.
“I think the rollover policy is good 
because it takes the pressure off of finishing all of your dining dollars in one academic year, ” Thapetta told the UCSD Guardian. “ As a person 
transitioning to being a commuter 
[next year], it will be nice to be able to 
fall back on dining dollars. ”
Zsuzsanna Llynch, a sophomore 
from Roger Revelle College who works at Canyon Vista and moved off campus 
due to the previously high costs of the dining plans, said that the new dining plans and rollover policy are beneficial to their users and to the 
administration.
“If students have more dining 
dollars they will be encouraged to 
spend more, especially if the dollars 
roll over, ” Llynch said. “Students who 
would have run out of dining dollars 
can continue eating at dining halls the 
next academic year, so all in all, more 
students will be patrons of the dining 
halls than ever before, which is great 
for business. ”According to Sixth College 
sophomore Max Varady, these new policies create mixed outcomes because 
the current dining plan price points set 
the highest amount to $4,056.
“I definitely like the rollover policy 
and never understood why that wasn’t 
always implemented, ” V arady told the 
Guardian. “[However], it seems like 
the higher price points for the dining 
plans might not be doable for some 
people. ”
Conversely, some students like 
Thapetta feel that these changes do not do enough to fully address the 
problems that many students have with HDH. She notes that HDH has a 
greater problem of inflating the prices 
of the offered food.
“The average price of food [from 
HDH] is so expensive, ” Thapetta said. 
“I feel like … they take advantage of 
the fact that we want to save time and 
would rather not go off campus to get 
other food. ”
All first-year and continuing 
students will be able to purchase the new dining plans later this summer when the housing and dining signup information is released. Any current students not graduating this spring will 
be able to let their remaining dining 
dollars rollover through the end of Fall Quarter 2019.
jacob sutherland  jasuther@ucsd.eduVarady: T he New Dining Plans Might Be Too Expensive for Some Students, but the Rollover Policy Will Likely Be Beneficial
▶ HDH , from page 1
Friday, February 15
12:55 a.m. Excessive Alcohol Near Sixth College Apartments, intoxicated female vomiting, difficulty breathing  Transported to Hospital9:25 a.m. Suspicious PersonMale near Rady School seen with a handgun and handcuffs on waist  Checks OK
Saturday, February 16
8:32 p.m. Petty TheftUnknown adult male broke into Mandeville coffee cart Report Taken
Sunday, February 17
9:24 a.m. DisturbanceLa Jolla Village Drive, Male subject throwing golf balls at passerby’s Citation Issued6:35 p.m. Non-Injury CollisionAt Voigt Drive, Vehicle vs. Bicyclist Report Taken
Monday, February 18
7:00 a.m. Welfare CheckCentral Mesa Apartments, Child custody disputeReport Taken11:45 p.m. Animal CallFound dog near Rita Atkinson ResidentsChecks Ok 
Tuesday, February 19
11:21 a.m. Welfare Check90 year old male clicked medical alarm activation button at East Campus Office BuildingUnable to Locate12:40 p.m. Bicyclist StopMale riding bicycle at North Torrey Pines Road while intoxicated Stay Away Order Issued5:15 p.m. ArsonTransient male setting cardboard box on fire at Torrey Pines Center SouthGone on Arrival8:20 p.m. InjuryReporting party fell from shuttle bus at Price CenterReport Taken
Wednesday, Febr uar y 20
10:50 a.m. Skateboard StopTwo adult males trick skating on La Jolla Village DriveField Interview1:49 p.m. Information OnlyReport of angry student who threw down file cabinet and fled GalbraithReport Taken
Thursday, February 21
12:36 a.m. Noise DisturbanceScreaming for last 30 minutes in Stewart HallReferred to Student Conduct4:37 p.m. Grand TheftMale selected merchandise and left bookstore without paying for items, Value: $649.90 Closed by Arrest5:00 p.m. Stolen VehicleUnknown suspect(s) took a golf cart without permission from Student Services CenterReport Taken
Friday, February 22
1:20 p.m. BatteryMale subject spilled hot soup on victim’s hand at Student Center Building AReport Taken10:33 p.m. Excessive Alcohol/DrugSubject at Village East 1 having negative reaction to marijuana edibles Transported To Hospital 
Sunday, February 24
5:00 p.m. Petty TheftTwo males fled from officers after being reported for cutting bicycle locks, one suspect  outstanding and one bicycle not recovered, loss $625.00Citation Issues
Monday, February 25
5:08 a.m. Drug Law ArrestOriginal call for welfare check of male attempting to flagdown passerby’s at La Jolla Shores DriveClosed by Adult Arrest
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the Police Crime 
Log at police.ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Many University of California campuses have been pledging to 
participate in Meatless Mondays, a growing initiative to consume 
an entirely meat-free diet once a week. In 2014, UC Santa Barbara 
introduced “Green Monday”, where dining commons rotate monthly to serve a strictly vegetarian menu on Mondays. Because of Meatless Monday campaigns, in 2012, 680 students at UC Davis pledged to cut out meat one day a week. 
In January 2012, UC San Diego opened the fully vegan dining hall, Roots. 
One could argue that this is UCSD’s contribution to the Meatless Monday campaign. However, restricting a strictly vegetarian/vegan dining hall to one location prevents students in other colleges from directly benefiting from it. It is crucial for UCSD to adopt a rotating Meatless Monday menu to spread a strictly vegetarian fare to all dining halls as well as visibly campaign the cause. 
When analyzing the extent 
to which dining halls other than Roots are participating in Meatless Mondays, the weekly menus provided by Housing, Dining & Hospitality on its website detail that on Mondays, three dining halls on campus (Pines, Cafe Ventanas, Canyon Vista) do not serve beef burgers at the “Grill” station. However, they do serve burgers with chicken, turkey and ham, as well as a few vegetarian burger options, which are already served daily. Essentially, three dining halls have removed beef from their Monday grill menus and everything else remains the same. Although this is a step in the right direction, this isn’t sufficient and definitely doesn’t qualify as a “strictly vegetarian” Meatless Monday according to UCSB’s standards. 
When looking at vegetarian meals served on campus, they are rarely as 
well-balanced or as filling as meat options. The discrepancies between the nutrition and taste in non-vegetarian and vegetarian meals on campus are huge. While meat eaters are offered a balanced dinner with protein, vegetables and carbohydrates, the non-meat eaters resort to white-flour pasta. With the lack of options, I, like many other vegetarian students, often found myself resorting to frozen meals from the market, which are often high in sodium and lack nutritional value. If Meatless Mondays are implemented at dining halls across campus, they should involve balanced vegetarian meals with protein and other crucial nutrients. 
In general, the university should take a greater initiative to spread 
awareness of the impact of meat consumption and benefits that come with eating vegetarian meals once a week. Relative to plant-based agriculture, 
meat production has a much higher environmental impact in relation to freshwater used, amount of land required, and waste products generated. Also, when analyzing the health benefits involved with eating less meat, studies find that reducing the consumption of meat can lower the risk of heart disease, obesity, and high cholesterol, among other health issues. There is power in simply bringing awareness to the impacts of meat consumption. HDH has taken steps towards sustainable dining, but they have a huge platform to 
make even more change. Positive steps toward promoting awareness can include visibly campaigning Meatless Mondays throughout all dining halls on campus and serving nutritious vegetarian options. 
Reducing consumption of meat does not have to be all or nothing. Eating 
strictly vegetarian for even one meal a week can make a difference. HDH can bolster this effort in the form of a visible Meatless Monday campaign. As a student population, we can strive to be healthier, more conscious, and sustainable consumers and this can be a good first step.Adriana  Barrios OPINION opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
HDH’s Meatless Mondays Still Have Too Much Meat
By Lauren  Burdsall      Contributing Writer
Washing Away Waste: Th e Case for Bidets in Public Restrooms
For many members of today’s society, anxieties about the environment 
and the ecological well-being of the planet plague the mind on a 
regular basis. The scientific community is largely in agreement that 
without drastic action, the earth could become uninhabitable for humans in the coming decades. Frustrated with governments that subvert this information or corporations that continue ecologically dubious business practices, many are taking it upon themselves to mitigate their individual impact on the environment. Some are turning to alternative forms of transportation, others are changing their diets or installing solar panels on their homes. One universal area of our day-to-day routines that modern Americans can change to take a major cut out of our environmental impact is often overlooked and takes place in the bathroom.An overwhelming majority of Americans use toilet paper or wet wipes to clean 
themselves up after visiting the bathroom. In fact, the U.S. produces and consumes more toilet paper products than any other nation. While there is a significant load of paper waste that comes from this consumption, an even more detrimental impact on the environment comes from the production of toilet paper products. 
Hundreds of thousands of trees around the globe need to be cut down each 
day to supply enough raw pulp to meet the current demands for toilet paper. Each year in the United States alone, the processing of this raw pulp requires billions of gallons of water, and over 250,000 tons of chemicals to bleach it into a cotton-soft texture. The production of a single roll of toilet paper takes up to 37 gallons of water alone.
By  Tyler  Faurot      Contributing Writer
See BIDET, page 5Lauren  Burdsall   lburdsal@ucsd.edu“While meat eaters are 
offered a balanced dinner 
with protein, vegetables 
and carbohydrates, the 
non-meat eaters resort to 
white-flour pasta.”OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
APPLY TO JOIN A.S. COUNCIL '19-'20 at as.ucsd.edu/elections
Applications due March 7, 12pm
Vote on TRITONLINK April 8-12
for more information, contact aselections@ucsd.eduhatchyourplan
DEBUGGING   By System 32
Tyler  Faurot   TFAUROT@ucsd.edu▶ BIDET , from page 4
So how can Americans, as both consumers and poopers, cut back on the 
toll this takes on the ecosystem? Bidets may be a solution.
For those unfamiliar, bidets are those fancy little water fountains that 
you sit on that shoot water up into your intergluteal cleft to wash all the 
leftover waste away. They aren’t very common in America, but they are largely used in Europe and Japan. 
Bidets offer a number of environmental solutions. Perhaps most 
significantly, they use less water than the production of toilet paper. As mentioned before, a single roll takes 37 gallons of water to make, but the average bidet takes about an eighth of a gallon per use. You may still need some toilet paper to dry off your backside afterward, but not nearly as much as you would need to wipe yourself clean. Some of the more luxurious models of bidets even have air dryers attached, eliminating the use of paper altogether. 
In medical terms, bidets are another plus. Because you’re not using 
your hands, there is a reduced risk of spreading disease. It’s also way less irritating on your sensitive bits.
Most bidets cost around $100, and can be applied to fit into your toilet 
bowl at home. Considering that Americans spend on average about $150 on toilet paper each year, it goes without saying that it makes financial sense, too. This would also have a positive impact on public health and finance if bidets were installed in public restrooms, like here on campus.
Plus, with the elimination of toilet paper, nobody would have to argue 
about whether to install a new roll over versus under anymore (it should be installed over, by the way).
In summation, bidets aren’t just fancy toilet fountains for snobby 
Europeans. They also could save you money, and help save the planet. For the environmentally anxious folks who want to avoid living life like the “Day After Tomorrow,” the switch makes a ton of sense.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
Many UC San Diego students have ventured across the Mexican border to 
Tijuana in search of delicious food and wild nightlife. In the midst of the city’s 
alluring tourist attractions, however, are migrants living with no food, money, or 
homes.
Coming from Mexico or other nations south of the U.S., these people have been 
turned away from the border and left with nothing. Many of them were escaping the suffering they experienced in their homelands, be it gang violence, persecution, or poverty. Some were part of the Central American migrant caravan that has seen 
recent media attention.
Once deported, migrants can either travel back home or settle in Tijuana as they 
seek asylum. Those who choose to stay often have nowhere to turn to but migrant shelters. Partially funded by the Mexican government, these shelters provide meals, 
living spaces, and legal and social services to residents.
UCSD’s Mexican Migration Field Research Program gives undergraduate and 
graduate students the opportunity to work closely with these migrant shelters. While the program has another research track focusing on students at the border, the track focusing on asylum seekers in Tijuana migrant shelters is brand-new for 
the 2018-19 academic year. The research examines the effects of deportation and 
exclusion on the lives of migrants, drawing on in-depth interviews with deportees and Central American asylum seekers.
Headed by Dr. Abigail Andrews, an assistant professor of sociology at UCSD, 
the nationally and internationally renowned program consists of 20 students and spans three quarters. For each quarter, the students enroll in a specific course on immigration or research methods with the sociology department. It’s during Winter 
Quarter that they spend time at the shelters volunteering and conducting interviews 
as part of an eight-unit field research course.  
As it centers on the experiences of migrants, the MMFRP offers a refreshing break 
from the politician-dominated media representations of the immigration debate. It is easy for arguments over immigration policy and the opinions of government leaders to 
drown out the actual experiences of migrants. 
Their suffering throughout the immigration process too often goes unnoticed.
“I always make sure to ask my interviewees 
if there’s anything they would like for me to bring awareness to so it gets out there, ” Frieda 
Orbach, a third-year sociology major from 
Sixth College who is a participant in MMFRP , said. “ As a student researcher, I feel like 
I’m a medium between them and the UCSD 
community, an outlet to give them that voice. You can research something, but if you’re not giving people their voices then what’s 
the point?”
In addition to the unique opportunity for undergraduates to conduct hands-on 
research, MMFRP also warrants an experiential learning experience: as part of the program, students spent a week living in Tijuana shelters among migrants. 
Orbach found that staying in the shelters gave unique insight into the migrants’ 
perspective.
“We stayed there for a whole week, sleeping in the same place where they slept, 
eating the same food that they ate, being a part of their schedules and seeing how 
their days went, what they’re feeling, ” Orbach said. “Seeing the circumstances for 
myself and listening to people about what needs to change helped me understand 
what exactly is going on. ”
A day at the migrant shelter starts early. Many people wake up at 5 a.m. for 
breakfast. In some shelters, men cannot be in the shelter for certain hours of the day. The men at Casa del Migrante, for example, must go look for jobs from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Oftentimes, the shelter will help men find work in construction or other fields. Women’s schedules are less enriching; many of them have nothing to do but 
watch their children, who spend most of the day attending classes.
Orbach commented on the shelters’ gendered living environments. Beyond 
having discrepancies in the activities available to men and women, the shelters also 
tend to provide more resources and services to men.
“The men have more of an actual system 
in their shelters, ” Orbach said. “They had social workers, a lawyer, computer classes. The women’s shelter didn’t have all that; they 
only had one social worker. It’s a lot harder 
for women to find jobs because they have their kids with them. Sometimes they can’t 
even enroll in school because they’re not from 
Mexico; they’re from Latin America.”
Besides women being placed at a 
disadvantage, migrants must also endure poor 
living conditions since the shelters receive inadequate funding — many of them are dependent on volunteers and donations. With new deportees coming in every day, it is increasingly difficult for shelters to meet the needs of every resident. Life at these migrant shelters is therefore far from perfect.
Ye t  m ore  d e v a s t at i n g  t h an  t h e  s h e lt e r s’  l i v i n g  c on d it i on s  i s  t h e  c on s i d e r a b l e 
trauma of the migrants living there.
For deportees who have established new lives for themselves in the U.S. in 
particular, the forced separation from their jobs, homes, and families is devastating. 
Deportees may be considered foreigners by U.S. government standards, but that 
doesn’t necessarily mean that Mexico is their home. 
“I’ve interviewed people who had barely gotten to the shelters, maybe a day or 
two in, and they’re just confused because according to the government this is their country, but it’s not, ” Orbach said. “They don’t know anybody; they don’t know the city. It’s a foreign country to them, especially if they’ve already been socialized in 
the U.S. and grew up there. ” 
Inside   Tijuana's 
Migrant  Shel ters
The Mexican Migration Field Research Program at UCSD allows students to participate in 
groundbreaking research on migrant communities.
SeeTIJUANA , page 7By Jade  Knows His Gun-Wong       Features Editor
“As it centers on the experiences of migrants, 
the MMFRP offers a refreshing break from the 
politician-dominated media representations of 
the immigration debate. It is easy for arguments 
over immigration policy and the opinions of 
government leaders to drown out the actual 
experiences of migrants.”FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG  & MADELINE PARK
features@ucsdguardian.org
MMFRP students cross the border to work with migrant shelters.PHOTO COURTESY OF FRIEDA ORBACHFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
jade knows his gun-wong   jknowshi@ucsd.edu
Volunteers pose for a picture in Tijuana.
▶ TIJUANA , from page 6
Once they’ve arrived on the other side of the border, deportees struggle through the 
process of starting from scratch.
“In the case of deportees, they have recently been cut off from their families and are 
attempting to rebuild their lives from a place of often intense social isolation, ” Andrews said.
Deportation can also endanger migrants as they are forced back into the harmful 
environments they sought to escape by coming to the United States. 
“ Almost all [Central American deportees] are fleeing violence in their homelands, 
including extortion, threats, and murders of family members, ” Andrews continued.
Orbach shed light on one woman’s experience with gang violence, which drove her from 
a town in Mexico to the U.S. in search of safety.
“She was scared her daughter, who was 11, was going to be sexually abused, and that her 
son would be forced to join a gang, so she fled from Guerrero, ” Orbach said. “She’s here now 
and trying to seek asylum. ”
Unfortunately, since the majority of deportees are escaping gang violence, it is difficult 
for them to make a strong case for asylum. Moreover, recent limits on asylum laws mean that migrants may have to wait months to even apply to seek asylum. 
Amendments to asylum policies have heavily impacted San Diego in particular. Before 
U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement terminated its safe release procedures in October 2018, it would ensure that families without legal permission to stay in the U.S. who were seeking asylum were matched with sponsors in the U.S. upon release from detention 
centers. The sponsors would then provide a home for families as they awaited asylum.
Citing an influx of families entering the U.S. illegally, ICE no longer coordinates release 
plans for migrant families. Instead, the families are dropped off outside and left to find their own means of surviving.
“Families aren’t allowed to stay in the detention centers for too long, so ICE agents will 
drop them off at a random McDonald’s or Starbucks, ” Orbach said. “It’s very sad and also very frustrating the way they’re treated. ”
The San Diego Rapid Response Network was established to assist immigrant families living in the San Diego border region without documentation, providing shelter and basic 
necessities for them. Orbach volunteers with SDRNN as part of their International Migration 
Studies minor. As a result, they have a unique perspective of migrant life on both sides of 
the border.
“I decided I wanted to get experience from what it’s like on this side because here, families 
stay together, and over there, families don’t stay together, ” Orbach said. “Women and children go to one, men go to another one.
It’s a little easier here, maybe. Families here do get more attention in comparison because 
when they arrive, they’re checked by a doctor and given medicine if they’re sick. Over there, there’s a doctor, but they don’t get checked immediately. ”
Though these differences exist, the fact that both San Diego and Tijuana house migrant 
shelters speaks to their interconnectedness as immigration hubs. Further, San Diego’s proximity to the border demands its residents to be aware of what challenges migrants are facing.
Orbach reflected on the necessity for people in San Diego, especially UCSD students, to be 
mindful of the immigration crisis happening just south of them, and to look for ways to serve.
“These migrant shelters are only 12 or 15 minutes away from where people are going out 
and partying in Tijuana, ” Orbach said. “It’s not far. I would really hope people get out of their bubble and understand there’s a whole different side of Tijuana that you don’t know about. The people there really need help. ”
You can donate to the San Diego Rapid Response Network by visiting their website. Contact 
Dr. Andrews at alandrews@ucsd.edu if you’re interested in making a donation to the Tijuana 
migrant shelters.PHOTO COURTESY OF FRIEDA ORBACHOver the years, we’ve seen many trends come and go. Sometimes, we see 
whole eras come back (i.e. ‘80s pop or ‘90s grunge). However, I think now is the 
time where we need to reflect on what may have been, in my humble opinion, 
one of the greatest decades of style to ever happen: the early 2000s. Allow me to 
take you through my top 10 trends of the 2000’s and perhaps I can convince you to bring them back with me. 
10. Frosted Lip Gloss: Forget the boring matte colors you’re buying from 
Kylie Jenner; now is the time to embrace all of the shine and shimmer. Extra points if you wear the gloss and then outline with lip liner of a darker shade!
9. Butterfly Clips: If you’re like me, you might not remember how you 
actually acquired butterfly clips, but they always sat in a drawer with my multicolored barrettes and extra wide, plastic headbands. Butterfly clips may 
only hold a grand total of three strands of hair, but those baby hairs will look 
better than they ever have.
8. Cargo Pants: Ah, the baggy, pocketed, and somehow trendy cargo pants. 
A wide variety of colors are accepted, but I would personally suggest an olive 
green. Pair those with a black top and you might as well call yourself Kim 
Possible, ready to take on the world with pocket room to spare!
7. Halter Tops: To the navy blue halter top with a paisley pattern; I miss you. 
The sort of loose, diamond shape in the front with an airy, open back make it the perfect summer shirt. 
6. Chunky Hair Highlights: Forget trying to reach the perfect ombre blend, 
throw in a few bleached highlights with your butterfly clips and you’ll feel like Kelly Clarkson when she won American Idol. Welcome to hairstyle stardom.
5. Dresses Over Jeans: Okay, hear me out; want to wear a dress, but didn’t 
shave your legs? Throw on a pair of flare or skinny jeans and you’re good to go. If you’re feeling bold, you’ll dig in your closet for those strappy heels to complete the look. See you on the runway!
4. Crimped Hair: No hair styling tool is as underrated as the hair crimper. 
Unlike the time-consuming curler or straightener, you don’t even need to 
commit to styling your whole head! The beauty of the crimp is taking smaller 
sections to let yourself spice things up for the day in minutes.
3. Gaucho Pants: Oh the gaucho pants … the soft, flowy fabric gives all 
the comfort of your favorite pair of yoga pants or leggings, but somehow even 
lighter and airier. As always, extra points if you pair it with a Lisa Frank or 
Bobby Jack T-shirt. 
2. Wedge Flip Flops: There is nothing in this world that will make you 
feel more fierce than wedge flip flops (preferably with rhinestone-covered straps). Running errands or to class, that extra height in the wedge is made of 
confidence. Get a pair now from your nearest Ross and strut your stuff down 
Library Walk. 
1. Velour Tracksuits: Hello, Juicy Couture! Alas, some of us couldn’t afford 
this pricey athleisure wear and settled for the off-brand set from Kohl’s, but that doesn’t make you any less fabulous. From hot pink to sky blue to olive green, these outfits know how to make a statement in comfort. Pair these with your new wedge flip flops and people will be snapping pictures on their Motorola flip phones, wondering if it’s really you or Paris Hilton!A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT  
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Food is an essential part of life. We need to eat to live. This sounds simple, 
but many struggle with this idea. Living in a society that is obsessed with weight loss and being skinny, many have found themselves developing eating disorders, 
whether they know it or not.
This past week was National Eating Disorder Awareness Week. Eating 
disorders are defined as a mental and physical illness that affects the eating 
patterns of people of every age, sex, gender, race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic 
group. It can be caused by a multitude of things: stress, societal pressures, 
body image, etc. There are different types of eating disorders; however, the main three are anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorder. Anorexia nervosa is defined by restrictive food intake and dramatic weight loss. Bulimia nervosa is the alternation of binge eating and then purging. Binge 
eating disorder is similar to bulimia nervosa but without the purging and often 
attached with feelings of shame and guilt.
Developing these disorders does not just happen overnight. We often do 
not treat our bodies with the respect they deserve. Sometimes, we skip a meal 
here and there, but this can easily develop into skipping two meals a day, and 
then three meals a day. Personally, I went through a phase from September to February where I did not consume nearly as much food as I should have. I remember one day I ate half of a croissant and four baby carrots, and I did not feel hungry. Whenever I would go out with friends, I would never be able 
to finish my meal or eat much of it at all. I never tried to be like this, it just 
happened when I returned to college in the fall. But because I never actively tried to fight it, I lost about 20 pounds due to not eating enough. I didn’t even realize that it was a problem until my friends brought it up to me. It was so obvious to everyone else, yet I couldn’t acknowledge that I was suffering from 
an eating disorder. People tend to normalize the struggles and hardships they go 
through, but that isn’t what is necessarily best for us. We have to pay attention to our bodies and their needs because even though eating disorders are treatable, they are difficult to admit to having and often hard to notice.  
Since then, I have recovered from my eating disorder. I used to hate talking 
about it or even admitting that I had it, but then I realized how many people eating disorders actually affect. The National Eating Disorders Association states on their website that national surveys estimate that 20 million women and 10 million men in America will have an eating disorder at some point in their 
lives. 80 percent of 10-year-old girls in America have already been on a diet. 91 
percent of women are unhappy with their bodies and diet because of that. Diets easily lead to pathological dieting and the development of eating disorders. Eating disorders kill at least one person every hour. Dieting is often expressed as some desire to be healthy and take care of oneself; however, more often than 
not, this front disguises a deeper desire to be skinny and lose weight.
It isn’t easy to notice the effects of an eating disorder, but there are symptoms: 
skipping meals, frequent dieting, brittle nails, dry hair, dry skin, dizziness, 
mood swings, and feeling cold all the time. If you recognize these symptoms 
in someone you know, reach out. Ask them if they are okay and push them a 
little, because it’s hard to admit to yourself that you may be suffering from an eating disorder without the help of others. And if you yourself think that you are suffering from an eating disorder, reach out to a close friend or family member and ask for help. If you are too afraid to ask someone you know for help, call the 
National Eating Disorder Association hotline at (800) 931- 2237. 
Eating disorders are much more common than we realize. The stigma around 
them has to be removed. Even though society is slowly but surely becoming 
more comfortable talking about mental illness, eating disorders seem to be ignored, but let’s talk about it. 
For more resources, visit neda.com.Removing the Stigma Around Eating Disorders10 Early 2000s Fashion Trends We Must Revive
By Natasha  vandamme        Lifestyle staff writerBy Colleen  conradi        Lifestyle staff writer
Ashley Tisdale poses in a sequined dress over jeans at a 2005 event.LIFESTYLE          THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
1sT annu AL hdH Holi fEsTiv al 
WednesD ay, mARch 13
4:30 - 8:00pm • canyoN visT a
Dance Performance • Henna Artists
  Indian Inspired Dishes • Celebration of Colorswhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972It was another sunny weekend in San Diego when I stumbled across 
a beautiful storefront known as D.G. Willis Books. Now, I am a bit of a 
bibliophile, so whenever I see bookstores, I have to investigate. I walked up the small porch and traveled back in time; suddenly, I was in a vintage 1930s-esque storefront that greeted me with that intoxicating smell of books and calming classical music. The wooden shelves went  up to the ceiling and were lined with everything from the Greek classics to historical fictions. After taking several ‘candid’ photos and recreating that scene from “Beauty and the Beast” for Instagram, I had to find out more about the man behind this small time capsule in the middle of downtown La Jolla.
Dennis G. Wilis, the owner, as you might have inferred, is a bit of 
a bookworm, hence his shelves being packed with every kind of novel imaginable. Originally, he had a storefront two streets down from his current location but his original plan was to be located near UC San Diego’s campus. “ I always have some classic books that a lot of students could use for class and discover new favorites, ” he said. Later, as his collection expanded, he moved to his current location on Girard Avenue. He built the wooden ceiling details and porch himself to give the store that vintage feel. 
Dennis also decided to rent out the space next door and cut a hole in 
the wall to make room for his expansive collection of books, but also other collectibles that add to the unique. “I love thrifting at garage and estate sales, I always find the coolest thing” he said. And, true to his word, he has a fun eclectic mix of figurines and a vintage water heater because “no bookstore is complete without one [water heater]!” One of his favorite pieces is a statute that he received from a local artisan during his time in the service. It was inspired by the “Dans la Bibliotheque” (In the Library), a painting of a woman losing herself in a book, something that every book lover can relate too.
Dennis also hosts numerous events to bring book lovers together. Many 
famous authors across multiple genres and fields have visited his store. He proudly displays photos of his guests across his store, as well as articles he has been featured in. One familiar name might be Francis Crick, one of the scientists who discovered DNA, who stopped by D.G. Willis books in the early 2000s. Dennis also has a Y ouTube channel that features some authors doing live readings as well as some UCSD professors that discuss their research. While Dennis is very involved with the UCSD community and has made appearances on UCSD TV , he would love if the UCSD student community could pick up a book more often. “While technology and the internet [social media] is great, there really is nothing quite like holding a bound book, ” he said. If you ever find yourself in need of a good book, be sure to stop by D.G. Willis Books, and support a local business owner. His store is the perfect aesthetic reading retreat.
Store: 7461 Girard Avenue, La Jolla
Website:http://www.dgwillsbooks.com/ You Tu b e  C h an n e l :  http s : / / w w w. y outu b e . c om / u s e r / D G Wi l l s B o o k s
La Jolla Locals: D.G. Willis Books
PHOTOS COURTESY OF DAVID TOMLINSON
By Natalie  duprey        Lifestyle staff writer10                                                                         T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
No. 6
MAR.
8th 
MAR.8th 
CLASH
March 8, 3-6PM  |  Revelle PlazaCOMICSCOMICSof the“How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World” o ffers a visually stunning and heartwarming conclusion to Hiccup’s and Toothless’ adventure.
When viewers first visited Berk in 
2010, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) was the only villager who believed 
in the friendliness of dragons. Through sheer determination, love, and the help of a cuddly yet deadly Night Fury dragon named Toothless, Hiccup charmed his way into the hearts of even 
the most skeptical of Vikings. From that moment 
to the present, audiences have laughed, cheered, and cried every step of the way as Hiccup grew up, suffered loss, fell in love, and found hope. On Feb. 22, Hiccup’s tale came to its stunning 
conclusion with the release of “How to Train Y our 
Dragon: The Hidden World, ” and with it the end of an almost decade-long franchise that defined the childhood of many a college student. 
“The Hidden World” opens differently than 
the previous films — instead of Hiccup’s classic “This is Berk” intro, viewers are greeted by an ominous dragon-trapping boat at night. Suddenly, a night guardsman is confronted by a dark figure 
with a flaming sword and a dragon, who are 
quickly revealed to be Hiccup and Toothless. What follows is an epic, if not very disorganized fight scene, as they and their friends rescue the 
imprisoned dragons. Upon returning to Berk, 
though, it’s clear that the villagers have accepted so many rescued dragons that they are overrun by them. This makes the island a sitting target for their many anti-dragon enemies, who we later 
learn have hired Grimmel (F . Murray Abraham), the man who hunted the Night Furies to the brink 
of extinction, to capture Toothless. As Toothless is the island’s alpha dragon, Grimmel’s control 
over him would mean that he could control all 
of Berk’s dragons and easily hand them over to the cruel chieftains. In response, Hiccup decides to find the hidden world, a mythical land where 
dragons originated and predominantly reside, so 
that the residents of Berk and their dragons may relocate there to live in peace.  
Up until this moment, Hiccup and viewers 
alike were under the impression that Toothless 
was the last Night Fury alive. Y et as Grimmel 
closes in on Berk, he reveals that there is, in fact, one remaining female, dubbed a “Light Fury, ” who Toothless falls in love with on sight. 
For Toothless, wooing the Light Fury means 
learning what it means to be independent again both physically and emotionally. Subsequently, Hiccup has to learn to let go a little and to trust in Toothless’s decision-making and the strength 
of their friendship. Ultimately, even though the 
main romance of the plot remains the budding relationship between Toothless and the Light Fury, an even greater love story develops in his 
loyalty and love for Hiccup. 
Running parallel to Hiccup’s relationship with 
Toothless is the development he experiences 
with his relationship to Astrid (America Ferrera). While it was clear in the second film that they 
were dating, here audiences witness how their relationship changes under their community’s — 
mostly Gobber’s (Craig Ferguson) and Tuffnut’s (Justin Rupple) — pressure to marry. Here some 
viewers may become frustrated if they think 
that this is another forced marriage plot in a children’s movie. Y et the way that Dreamworks handled Astrid’s development from the role of 
a girlfriend to a fiancee actually sends positive 
messages about how life partners are supposed to support and encourage one another to grow. It is clear that Astrid would not be losing any of her independence in becoming a wife, but rather 
joining and supplementing Hiccup’s rule as a 
chieftess.
This film was, however, not without its flaws 
when it came to its broader characterization. 
Grimmel is probably the weakest villain of the 
entire series, listing only a personal desire for praise and crave of “the hunt” as his motivations. Moreover, one of the running gags of the film is Snotlout’s (Jonah Hill) crush on Hiccup’s mom, 
V alka (Cate Blanchett), and jealousy over her 
apparent favoring of Eret (Kit Harington) over him. Considering that there are more than 20 years in age difference between V alka and Snotlout, 
this crush comes off as more cringeworthy than 
funny and is undoubtedly the worst of the series’ running jokes. Other than these ultimately minor details, however, “The Hidden World” did a superb job with character development, even 
continuing and referencing specific moments of characterization from the animated series based 
off the films, “Dreamworld Dragons. ”
What truly made “The Hidden World” great, 
though, was its visual animation. Every scene was a testament to how much Dreamworks’ animation has developed, with no detail left unnoticed. In one scene, the sand on a beach is 
so realistic that viewers can tell just how damp it 
is by its consistency when Toothless scratches out a trench. Clouds, grass, and hair all are animated to be vibrant, yet maintain their natural textures and movements. Viewers can catch how the light 
shines off of individual scales during dragon 
close-ups, and everything is animated to a point of realistic surrealism even during the more fantastical scenes of the film. Truly, this film is a 
work of art in itself outside of the intricacies of 
its plot. 
Overall, whether you are a new viewer or a 
diehard fan since childhood, “How to Train Y our Dragon: The Hidden World” will elicit intense 
feelings of nostalgia and happiness. It’s difficult 
to say goodbye, but as Hiccup reassures us, Berk is wherever its people are. And so, Toothless and Hiccup will continue to be with us. 
—  Daisy Scott 
A&E Editor
FILM   REVIEW
How  to  Train  your  Dragon:  The  Hidden  World
PHOTO COURTESY OF IMDB
Directed by   Dean DeBlois 
Starring  Jay Baruchel, Cate Blanchett, Kit Harington, Kristen Wiig, Gerard Butler, F. Murray Abraham, Jonah Hill
Release Date  February 22, 2019
Rated  PGCa-A&E      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Ever since Migos, the Atlanta hip-hop collective, hit the top of the music world with their track “Bad and Boujee, ” fans have debated which member 
is really the best “Migo. ” Now, we decide.
About five years ago, the lives of three young Atlanta rappers changed forever. Following 
the local success of their track “Bandos, ” the rap collective Migos — composed of Quavo, Offset, and Takeoff — put their name on the radar alongside some of Atlanta’s most 
influential members in the rap community, Gucci Mane and Zaytoven. When 2016 came around, Migos became one of the biggest names not only in the rap community but also throughout the music world. Their single “Bad and Boujee” went viral, and there was no looking back for these three artists from the North Side.
 Since that breakthrough, there have been countless conversations about which member 
carries the most weight in the group, and opinions vary depending on the set of standards used. With the recent release of Offset’s album “FATHER OF 4, ” each member has solo work to evaluate. With the release of these solo albums, it becomes much easier to dissect and consider which member is truly the best Migo. With rankings based on versatility, flow, ad-libs, and ability to 
make hits, here is a highly subjective outcome.
#1 — Offset
Coming in as the best Migo (fresh off his recent marriage to hip-hop star Cardi B and success 
with his album “FATHER OF 4”) is none other than Offset. Offset’s flow is unparalleled within the group, each of his verses powerful and the syllables always hitting perfectly. Offset is also able to 
differentiate his flow better than his counterparts; with a rapid-fire delivery to a more bouncy and smooth one, he can truly do it all. On his recently released “Wild Wild West, ” Offset transitions impressively between three different flows in just a few bars. On his joint album with 21 Savage and Metro Boomin, Offset made it clear that he was more than capable of making hits without 
Quavo leading the hooks. Songs such as “Ghostface Killers” and “Ric Flair Drip” display that Offset 
is just fine on his own. However, his most lacking quality, as listed above, is rarely contributing more than a single verse on a track. On the other hand, his recent solo project seems to show that he is very capable of doing it all. On the intro track of “FATHER OF 4, ” he delivers a chorus and 
verses more based on melody than strong cadence. With this track alone, the fast-flowing Offset 
displays potential for much more as a solo artist. Also, on one of the best songs of this generation, “Slide” by Calvin Harris featuring Migos, Offset has a standout verse with impressive alliteration and a delivery that is not to be contested by anyone in the industry. As icing on the cake, Offset also has the best ad-libs in the group — some would argue his notorious “whoo whoo whoo’s” on 
“Bad and Boujee” may just be the reason the song went so viral. 
#2 — Quavo 
The glamor of the group and the closest thing to a modern-day rockstar is Quavo, the man 
with the autotuned hooks. Quavo has a golden touch when it comes to reaching the top of the 
charts, as he can propel a song to unreachable heights by featuring on a track — more specifically, by singing the hook. In the earlier days of the group, Quavo could be seen killing his verses on tracks such as “Bando” and “Get Right Witcha. ” Now he has recently become focused on crafting the melodies that make most Migos tracks hauntingly catchy. With this current direction, it is 
only right to see that Quavo’s versatility on Migos’ tracks is starting to suffer. On his solo project, 
“QUAVO HUNCHO, ” his inability to maintain the listener’s interest through even a single track shines through, as the album ultimately is not very memorable and shows room for personal improvement. The album did have some tracks like “RERUN” and “LOST” that stood out; 
however, they both rely heavily on featured artists (Travis Scott and Kid Cudi). On tracks such as 
“LAMB TALK” and “BIG BRO, ” Quavo almost comes across as silly with conversational interludes and bottom-of-the-barrel lyrics. However, he is obviously skilled at crafting hooks to hit songs. Also, Quavo gains points for his joint project with Travis Scott, “Huncho Jack, Jack Huncho, ” which included many memorable tracks such as “Modern Slavery” and “How U Feel. ”
#3 — Takeoff
Coming in at the last slot is none other than Takeoff, the least recognized member with the 
most distinguishable voice in the group. Takeoff dropped his solo project “The Last Rocket” at the tail end of 2018, and it showcased massive potential for the Migos’ third member to deliver 
much more than complimentary verses. Limited features on the project let Takeoff shine, as he 
was forced to craft melodies and fill an entire track on his own. Tracks such as “Casper” and “Lead the Wave” stood out with strong choruses and verses that were just as exciting. Takeoff can masterfully rhyme words in succession and has the crispest delivery out of the three members. However, his inability to show his potential to make a hit independent of the other members in 
the group reveals that he is the most dependent on the others for success. Even though he comes 
in last, Takeoff has some of the best verses in the Migos’ history, including a truly mind-blowing verse on a studio freestyle over Drake’s infamous “Pound Cake” instrumental. Also, it is impossible to not pay tribute to his verse on “T-Shirt” and to recognize that his ad-libs are truly just different. 
At the end of the day, the Migos need one another, and the music they create has encapsulated 
a generation of hip-hop heads. The U.S. needs the collective unit of Migos just as much as it needs apple pie. The day the group breaks up, may God forbid, is the day Rome begins to fall. From every Offset “wooh” to each Quavo hook, Migos have crafted modern music into an entirely new mold, and it is delightful to watch each member individually thrive in the limelight. 
 
— Matthew Rudas
Staff Writer
Who  is  the  best  Migo?
PHOTO COURTESY OF BILLBOARD
Dream-pop Chicano boy-wonder Cuco arrived in 
San Diego on Feb. 13 just in time to save Valentine’s 
Day from the damp forecast and make us once 
again believe in the power of love (at least for those of us who 
weren’t so eager for the most amorous day of the year). With this 
being his second stop on his tour “Los Shows de San Valentin, ” 20-year-old Cuco returned to share his music after a period away 
from the stage. An unfortunate accident back in October 2018 
hospitalized him and several of his teammates, forcing him to cancel his tour. It seems, though, that Cuco is back on his feet (literally) ready to perform again and to release an album later this year. 
Dreamy beats and romantic Spanglish lyrics have propelled 
Cuco’s stardom, forging him into a Chicano icon in the music industry, especially because of the support he’s received from the Hispanic community. Even without a record label, Cuco came to sway us with his music and help his community along the way. 
It’s clear that he has his style locked down and knows what his 
people want. Hopefully the Los Angeles native will continue to grow and show us “lo que siente” (if you know you know) with his upcoming music. Supported by Los Retros and Kwest, Cuco chose the perfect 
time to kick off his comeback. During the five-day mini-tour through California, the three talented artists spread the love by 
creating a cheerful environment at their shows. Los Retros hit 
the stage first, playing some smooth tunes and acclimating the 
room for what would be a delightful evening. Kwest, the second act, brought out all his energy and shifted gears by lighting up the 
stage with his trap tunes and electric persona. 
The crowd went wild as our headliner hit the stage with 
music that the fans instantly recognized. By the third song, Cuco 
revealed that he had been working on an album, and he began to play an unreleased track that seemed to be a very honest 
composition about his personal struggles. 
Throughout the night Banos played some of his popular 
romantic hits such as “Lo Que Siento, ” “Lover is a Day, ” and what 
he considers to be one of his favorite songs to play, “Sunnyside. ” 
Picture this: a soothing melody begins to play, and instantly 
the crowd recognizes the song. In unison, fans begin singing with Cuco, “Cuando veo esos ojos … ” (“When I see those eyes”). “ Amor de Siempre” has been one of the singer’s most successful songs, and maybe the fact that it’s completely in Spanish has to do something with that. Looking around the venue, you see 
couples hugging and friends belting out the lyrics to each other. 
People who were alone (like myself) helplessly swayed with the 
music falling in love with the moment. To top it off, Cuco brings 
out the trumpet and flawlessly nails the solo, and everyone’s eyes 
(and phones) are on him. 
Apart from the romantic tunes, our favorite young Chicano 
musician closed the night with more upbeat songs like “Lucy, ” bringing out Kwest once again, and finishing off (with what should be) Honda’s anthem “CR-V” after the crowd cheered, “Otra! Otra!” (“ Another one! Another one!”) when he pretended to leave the stage. All around it was a great show; from the music 
to the environment to the people, Cuco and friends made pre-
Valentine’s Day as lovely as it could be.
— Ramona Rosas
Contributing WriterCuco brings the love to San Diego following a medical emergency that forced him to cancel his last tour. 
CONCERT   REVIEW
Location  The Observatory North Park
Concert Date   February 13, 2019CUCO: "Los Shows De San V alentiN"
PHOTO COURTESY OF RAMONA ROSASCA-12                                                                          T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M A R C H  4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  A&E
For more info, contact npathuru@ucsd.edu. Come listen to seven inspiring faculty and student speakers 
from across campus discuss topics revolving around the theme, The Future Starts Now. This is the first event in a 
brand new series meant to engage and empower the student body to take action and create a positive impact on campus.March 5th, 7 PM - 9 PM
SSC Multipurpose Room
Free dinner includedTalks
The Future Starts Now “The Vagina Monologues and Their 
Stories” unashamedly displays issues women, gender non-
conforming people, and sexual minorities face through a series of short performances, each tackling a different problem. Produced and performed entirely by UC San Diego 
students, several of these monologues were 
also original compositions, adding breadth to the original script from “Vagina Monologues. ” Compared to their shows from previous years on campus, this rendition of the play was much 
more intersectional, straying into stories from 
individuals other than straight cis-women. Not for the faint of heart, some of the scenes contained graphic and sometimes violent 
descriptions of events. Nevertheless, lighter 
content was interspersed throughout the evening. These kept the show from being too depressing while also reinforcing the purpose of the show with their equally relevant feminist 
messages.
After a brief introduction from the directors 
which included a trigger warning for the 
audience, act one began, focusing mainly on 
cis-women and their relationship with their 
vagina. This first scene, titled “Hair, ” details one woman, portrayed by Vanessa Fitzpatrick, and her discriminatory experience with her now ex-husband and a marriage therapist who chastised her for refusing to “please her 
husband” by shaving her pubic hair. Suzana 
Hossain takes a more humorous approach with the daily inconveniences women face in “My Angry Vagina. ” In this episode, the character 
she portrays lists the many grievances her 
vagina has had with numerous things, such as dry tampons and uncomfortable sex. At the end, the character unapologetically admits, “My vagina wants everything, ” highlighting the 
gross disparity in how little society cares about 
the wants and necessities of women compared to men. Sage Murphy-Cristal also sheds light into an asexual woman’s struggles in “My 
Hematite Ring, ” in which her character initially 
laments that her vagina must be “broken” due to its lack of “excitement. ” Ultimately, she comes to accept herself and uses her hematite ring as a symbol of her identity 
and commitment to supporting the asexual 
community. Staying mostly true to the original format of “The Vagina Monologues, ” the first act was a poignant reminder of lingering 
societal problems towards the treatment of 
women.
After a brief intermission, the cast played a video where several of them explain intersectionality and how important it is to the advancement of “The Vagina Monologues’” 
message. True to their word, they took a 
noticeable shift in the following act, focusing on social justice issues related to feminism. The scene “Dictionariess Got to Go, ” for 
example, focuses on one character, portrayed 
by Elle Lammouchi, showing the struggles LGBT people have with people refusing to deem gay marriage as legitimate. Ryan Sullivan’s performance in “Sit Down, Stay 
Quiet” describes the immense familial and 
societal pressure on transgender and gender non-conforming people such as his character to abide by gendered norms. Racism is also 
addressed in several of the episodes. “Black 
Girl” focuses on the fetishization of black women, with the character portrayed by Alexis Eubank denouncing the ignorance of one man’s attempts to seduce her using her race. “Not 
Fair, Not Lovely, ” featuring Shivani Das, also 
shows one woman’s experiences with colorism, ending with her rejecting products designed to lighten one’s skin and fully embracing her 
darker complexion. Each part of the second act 
serves a distinct purpose to broaden the scope of “The Vagina Monologues” to other groups. This act, although somber at times, seemed to evoke a rise-to-the-challenge atmosphere, fueled by many of the strong, defiant attitudes 
the cast embodied as they refused to abide by 
society’s rules.
Tightly organized around two clear 
goals of empowering women and improving 
intersectionality, “The Vagina Monologues 
and Their Stories” was a phenomenal series of short plays. Emotive and real, each cast member clearly threw themselves completely into their performances, utilizing both their 
shared and unique experiences to color their 
final product. They had full reign over the emotional atmosphere of the room, driving the audience from jovial laughter to pensive silence 
within the space of a breath. With their fairly 
empty stage setups, barring the occasional times they used a chair or recliner for effect, they also proved that a full-budget production isn’t required to pull viewers to the edge of 
their seats. For all this, they deserve a standing 
ovation. 
 
—  Steven Zhou
Staff WriterHumorous yet gut-wrenching, the cast of “ The Vagina Monologues and Their Stories” created a beautiful performance demanding attention 
for the injustices women continue to face.
PLAY   REVIEW
Location  Price Center East Ballroom
Performance Date   February 22 – 25, 2019
Directors  Jordan Krikorian, Suzete Lourenco, Sriya PodilaThe V agina Monologues
CA-CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
SAMMY MILLER & THE CONGREGATIONTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
MAR 4 - MAR 10
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6 • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
BODY COMPOSITION – THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. 
10am
UCSD BLOOD DRIVE - BLOODMOBILE 
ON LIBRARY WALK
The Gift that Keeps on Giving! Donate blood and 
save a life! Appointments will be honored first. Schedule an appointment with the San Diego 
Blood Bank by logging onto 
http://www.sandiegobloodbank.org, click on 
Donate Blood select Appointments Provide Sponsor Code: UCPC *Walk-ins are welcome as 
openings are available* Picture identification is 
required. Donors are eligible to give blood every 
56 days. Earn points for each blood donation and shop online at the Donors 4 Life Store.
11am
ART AND SOUL – THE ZONE
Enjoy a fun DIY arts and crafts project! Discover your creativity and destress. srlu@ucsd.edu
5pm
THE PERFECT PREDATOR: AUTHOR 
TALK AND BOOK SIGNING – GEISEL 
LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
Delve into the realms of predatory superbugs with 
infectious disease epidemiologist Steffanie Strathdee and her husband, psychologist Thomas Patterson during a discussion, followed by a Q&A and book signing to mark the release of their new book, The Perfect Predator. This medical-mystery memoir tells the incredible story of Strathdees fight to save her husbands life, which led her to rediscover a forgotten treatment for antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Her search led to an unprecedented treatment that saved his life. A book signing will follow the talk; copies of the book will be available for purchase from the UC San Diego Bookstore. This event is free and open to the public. Contact: mfellows@ucsd.edu 8585340533 
10am
FLASH FITNESS – STRETCHING MAT 
IN RIMAC
Starting Jan 24th empower your fitness in a flash 
(only 20 minutes) with Brandon in these FREE workshops. Just walk into the RIMAC weight room stretching area at 10am Thursday and Fridays! Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu
5pm
R&R SQUAD – THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS VIJAY IYER 
& MATT HAIMOVITZ – CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Cellist Matt Haimovitz--an artist whose 
barrier-breaking performances have taken him around the world--joins forces with genius jazz composer-performer pianist Vijay Iyer in a program that truly defies definition. This special event showcases Iyers own composition alongside the music of Zakir Hussain, John McLaughlin, J. S. Bach, Ravi Shankar, Billy Strayhorn, and others to create a program of unprecedented virtuosity and depth. Duets are the centerpiece, but also expect solo performances by each of these mesmerizing players. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduTUE3.05
THU3.07MON3.04
10am
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DESTRESS MONDAYS - PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Mondays can be stressful, so start your week on a 
high note with FREE tea and snacks! Come 
destress with University Centers EVERY MONDAY 
this winter quarter! #DestressMonday. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu. 
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based on 
first come, first serve. Questions? Contact the 
zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu. Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
12pm
DISCOVER THE LAW - ERC ROOM, 
SNAKE PATH ROOM, WARREN 
ROOM, CENTER HALL 212
Join us in our last week of Discover the Law! We 
have several exciting workshops for you to choose 
from: Landlord Tenant Jeopardy (ERC Room), 
Career Prospects for Law Grads (Snake Path 
Room), Law School Admissions (Warren Room), 
Civil Rights: A Living Movement (Warren Room), 
and our last Cram Saturday featuring four 
workshops: Student Loans: Know Your Rights as 
the Borrower, Free Speech & the First Amendment, 
Willings and Living Wills, and Party Time, Not Jail 
Time (Center Hall 212). 
3pm
MENS TENNIS: UC SAN DIEGO VS. 
BALL STATE NORTHVIEW TENNIS 
COURTS
The Tritons continue a season-long nine-match 
homestand against Ball State on Monday. 
Admission is free. Parking permits are required.
10am
FLASH FITNESS – STRETCHING 
MAT IN RIMAC
Starting Jan 24th empower your fitness in a 
flash (only 20 minutes) with Brandon in these FREE workshops. Just walk into the RIMAC weight room stretching area at 10am Thursday and Fridays! Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu
 
7pm
GLO 2019– GREAT HALL AT 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
Lights out at GLO 2019 for our BLACKLIGHT 
DANCE PARTY! 
Our DJ will be spinning upbeat hip hop, EDM, 
and pop bops all night long. Throw on some neon/white clothes and get ready to hit the dance floor under a full blacklight experience. Don't miss out on the free desserts, photobooth, and special giveaways! Limited FREE tickets will be released on February 25th at 12PM and will be available on a first-come first-serve basis to all UC San Diego undergraduate students. Admission to this event will be CAPPED - make sure to register before tickets run out! Hosted by UCSD Thurgood Marshall College and MAC - Marshall Activities Committee. Contact: cbn004@ucsd.eduFRI3.08
SAT2.091pm
POP TOUR 2019: LIGHT YEARS 
AWAY – LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE 
2910 LA JOLLA 
The year is 2068. Having discovered a new 
inhabitable planet named YOLO 6, NASA sponsors a contest to discover who should be chosen to live on this new world, and three 5th graders are up for the challenge! They embark on a storytelling journey, learning about the real problems, as well as the real beauty in their current world and what they think should be created in the next. Through their new-found friendship, this individual mission turns them into a team of thinkers ready to lift off on a new path. Audiences will get an opportunity to decide who gets to go to YOLO 6, launching them on their own voyage to dream bigger and celebrate teamwork. Contact: lmedofer@ljp.orgSAT3.09
7pm
JULIA HOLTER – THE LOFT 
Aviary is an epic journey through what Julia 
Holter describes as "the cacophony of the mind in a melting world." It takes as its starting point a line from a 2009 short story by writer Etel Adnan: "I found myself in an aviary full of shrieking birds." SUN2.17WED3.06THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK – 
THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
5pm
NICHOLAS PAPADOPOULOS 
ENDOWED LECTURE IN LGBT STUDIES – GREAT HALL, I-HOUSE (ERC)
Andrea Ritchie is a Black lesbian immigrant and 
police misconduct attorney and organizer who has engaged in extensive research, writing, and 
advocacy around criminalization of women and 
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) 
people of color over the past two decades. She recently published Invisible No More: 
PoliceViolence Against Black Women and Women 
of Color now available from Beacon Press. 
Contact: cgs@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS SAMMY 
MILLER AND THE CONGREGATION – THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Sammy Miller and the Congregation are on a 
mission to put generosity back into jazz and bring art back to the people. A native of Los Angeles, Grammy-nominated drummer, singer, and bandleader Sammy Miller has become known for his unique maturity and relentless focus on making music that feels good. Upon completing his masters at Juilliard, Miller formed his ensemble, the Congregation. As a band, they are focused on sharing the power of community through their music--joyful jazz, a style that enriches, entertains, and uplifts. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
“F” WORDS
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Color-deficient
5. Peaks of perfection10. Holiday honoree
14. Side by side?
15. Libation
16. ‘’Private Lives’’ playwright Coward17. Wise investors19. Treater’s phrase
20. Go one better
21. French Riviera resort
22. ‘’Rabbit Hill’’ author Robert24. Novel enhancement26. ___ Fein
27. Geologist’s suffix
28. Twists out of shape
32. Billiards stroke for sharks35. Like a plug, but not a socket36. Plane section
37. Suffix with sermon or usher
38. ‘’Sugaring Off’’ artist
39. What this gun’s for?40. Roger Rabbit, e.g.41. He told the story of Rudolph42. Made it through crunch time?43. Special attention45. Start for Marcos or Mateo46. Contemporary of Ellery and Agatha47. Common quintet51. Lesotho locale54. Source of misery55. Certainly not the silence of the 
lambs
56. Like a long shot’s chances57. Think tank product60. Global extreme61. ___ nous62. K-663. Clairvoyant64. Type of surgery65. Not one, to Jethro BodineDOWN
1. Minestrone ingredient2. Gawain’s suit3. Vaulted
4. It may be pulled
5. Esteem highly
6. Ridiculous lie7. King Solomon had one8. Compass point
9. Penthouse views
10. Ignoramus
11. They’re all charged up12. Lost fish13. Campbell in ‘’True Grit’’
18. CD alternative
23. Formicary inhabitant
25. Smart aleck26. Cobbler’s supplies28. Court events
29. Kind of check
30. It keeps on rolling
31. Luge32. Allot33. Bit of nuclear physics34. ‘’Say no more’’35. Dinner companion?38. Identify incorrectly42. Aarhus dwellers44. Parabolic portion45. Reprobate, e.g.47. Word with laissez or savoir48. Congo river49. Less plentiful50. ‘’What Makes ___ Run?’’51. Snakes in hieroglyphics52. Ice mass53. Infuriate54. Some make it to Cooperstown58. Genetic material59. Royal flush componentCARS
2019 Nissan Nv200 in San Diego, CA. 
2019 Nissan NV200, 4D Cargo Van, Fresh Powder 2019 Nissan NV200 SV FWD CVT with Xtronic I4Recent Arrival! 24/26 City/Highway MILES-PER-GALLON Price includes: $500 - Nissan Customer Cash - National. Exp. 02/28/2019...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Ford Fiesta SE Sedan in San 
Diego, CA. Features: A-c, Powered win -
dows, Power Locks, Powered steering, Tilt Wheel, AM/FM CD/MP3, Satellite, Immobilizer, Remote keyless entry, Dual Airbags Front Head and Side, Active Seatbelts….ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2016 Toyota Tacoma in San Diego, CA. 
4D Double Cab, Clean CARFAX. Red 2016 Toyota Tacoma SR RWD six Gear 
Automatic 2.7L I4 DOUBLE OVERHEAD 
CAMSHAFT 16 VOLT ANTI-LOCK 
BRAKING SYSTEM brakes, Electronic Stability Control, Lighted entry, Low tire pressure warning...ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
BIKES
Custom like New/Redline 20’’ bmx bike/
Full Chromoly/Freestyle/Park in San Diego, CA. Up for sale is a Custom Redline BMX bike for multiple riding disciplines; Freestyle/ Street/ Park/ Ramp/ Trails/ and or track use. Frame is Redline freestyle series 7.1 Frame and forks are Full (All tubing) Chromoly. Frame top tube 20” 3/4” (center head tube to center seat post)...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Haro ICS 4.0, 2003 Men’s Front-
Suspension Mountain Bike (27 Speed) in San Diego, CA. Haro ICS 4.0, 2003 Men’s Front-Suspension Mountain Bike. 27-Speed, Aluminum frame, Shimano components, Rock Shox Pilot fork, addi -
tional Michelin road tires. Condition: Excellent - original owner. History: Used 
primarily for street and trail riding; kept 
indoors - no serious mountain biking, 
accidents, or weathering...ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information2010 Trek 2.1 Road Bike in San Diego, 
CA. I have a 3yr old Trek model 2.1 road 
bike for sale. Frame size is 56cm so it’s 
good for someone around 5’9-6’ tall. 
Only 3 yrs old and in fantastic condition. Comes with Shimano 105 derailleurs, 
crank, and brakes which are very good. 
ten speed cassette...ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
HOUSING
2102 Meade Ave $2000 - July 31st, 2020. Beautiful 1926 Craftsman style bungalow in the heart of University 
heights. Brand new kitchen with granite 
countertops, open shelving and stain -
less steel appliances. Hardwood floors 
throughout. Updated bathroom with original cast iron tub... ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2821 Morena Boulevard $1460 - Mission 
Bay View | Large Studio Apartment - Wonderfully located, large studio apartment in Bay Park with Panoramic Mission Bay/Ocean views. Easy access to fwy 5, shopping, Mission Bay, PB & USD...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
7653 Mission Gorge Road Unit 48 $1995 
- This BEAUTIFUL remodeled TWO mas
-
ter bedroom/2 full bath is available for only $1,995.00. The unit has a spacious floor plan, with an upgraded kitchen 
featuring stainless steel appliances, 
granite countertops...ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
CROSSWORD SOLUTION
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
TRITON OUTFIT TERS
WINTER // 2019SAN DIEGO, CA
TO.UCSD.EDUThe No. 14 UC San Diego Tritons came 
ready to play on Friday, Feb. 28 as they took 
both home games from California State 
University, Sonoma with scores of 14–4, 
and 1–0, respectively. These wins propel 
UCSD to an 11–4 overall record and 6–4 
California Collegiate Athletic Association, 
which has the team back near the top of the 
standings. 
The first game of the day featured plenty 
of offense. The Tritons got to work early, 
posting back-to-back 4 run innings in the first and second innings, giving the home team an 8–1 lead from the get-go. Redshirt sophomore catcher Aaron Kim continued his hot streak by blasting home runs in 
both the first and second frames, including 
a grand slam in the second. Kim has four homers this season batting .355. Redshirt third baseman Alex Eliopulos, who was 
starting his 90th consecutive game, also 
did some damage as he gave the Tritons their initial 2–1 lead on a screaming two-run homer in the bottom of the first. The 
Tritons’ 8 early runs knocked Sonoma State 
pitcher Dominic Garihan out of the game 
after just 4 outs, and  the onslaught would 
continue. 
UCSD starter Preston Mott tallied the 
win, pitching 5 quality innings in which he gave up 4 runs and stuck out 7. However, the team was truly guided to victory by the Tritons’ o ffense. They knocked in 3 more 
runs in both the sixth and eighth innings 
due to timely hitting from redshirt junior 
Steven Schuknecht, who drove in two in the sixth, and cost the Seawolves two errors in the eighth. Freshman pitcher Michael 
Mitchell closed out the game for the 
Tritons, only allowing 2 hits in 5 innings of scoreless pitching. 
Junior Luke Mattson kicked the second 
game o ff just about 45 minutes a fter the end 
previous at 6:45, as the temperature began to take a dip in Triton Stadium. The Tritons 
were looking to build o ff their o ffensive 
prowess in the earlier game, but both teams, even the baserunners, struggled to get hits 
throughout the game. 
In a game that was only slated to last 7 
innings, a pitching duel extended it to 10 
innings and was put to rest on a one-out single down the right-field line o ff the bat 
of Blake Baumgartner. In the ninth inning, however, a leado ff single by the Seawolves’ 
Zach Guardino gave Sonoma State some hope. With the score still tied 0–0, the next batter hit a high chopping ball that seemed 
like it was going to be a tough play for first 
baseman Baumgartner, yet he got down in 
the dirt and fielded the short hop cleanly 
and made the play. This play had the crowd 
holding its breath because if it weren’t for his remarkable defensive eff ort, the 
Seawolves likely would’ve scored. 
UCSD managed just 6 hits, less than 
half of its 15 hit total in the earlier game. 
Pitchers junior Luke Mattson, senior Kyle 
Lucke, and senior Jonah Dipoto were stelar all night long and combined for a 3-hit, 10-inning shutout. Sonoma State starter 
Robert Towne was also impressive, keeping 
the Tritons neutralized o ffensively by 
holding them to 3 hits through 5 innings in addition to 7 strikeouts. 
Next weekend, UCSD will travel up to 
the Bay Area to take on California State University, San Francisco — currently undefeated (7–0–1) — in a four-game series beginning on Friday.
HA YDEN WELLBELOVED   HWELLBELL@ucsd.edu
Overall Team Effort Carries Tritons to Doubleheader Sweep
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICSBY HAYDEN WELLBELOVED
STAFF WRITER16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
It’s been a historic regular 
season, but they’re not done 
yet. The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team took down the California State University, East 
Bay Pioneers 77–69 at RIMAC 
Arena on Saturday, March 2 
to finish its regular season 
undefeated. The Tritons’ perfect 
California Collegiate Athletic Association record has not been 
matched since the 1991-92 season 
by California State Polytechnic 
University Pomona, and more 
notably, no CCAA team has ever 
finished its entire regular season 
without a loss. 
In the win against the Pioneers, 
the Tritons jumped out to a 27–9 
lead built o ff of their 50 percent 
shooting from both the field 
and from 3-point range. While 
the home team would slow 
down o ffensively as the game 
progressed, to the point of being outscored 27–17 in the fourth quarter, UCSD was never really 
under threat of losing the lead. 
Part of the problem in the second 
half for the Tritons was their 
underwhelming shooting, as they 
went from shooting 50 percent to 
finishing the game going just 9–26 from deep. 
But even without their usual 
sharpshooting, the team’s scoring 
leader on the night and on the 
season, junior forward Mikayla Williams, did not attempt a single 
3-pointer. She led UCSD with 
20 points against CSU East Bay. 
Williams led the team on defense 
as well, adding 5 blocks and 2 
steals to her solid final line. 
On the season, Williams led 
the team in minutes played, shots 
made and attempted, and field goal 
percentage, as she was the only player to shoot over 50 percent from the field. In addition, her 46 
blocks led the team by more than 30 over the next closest player.
Williams will be essential to keeping the Tritons’ o ffense a float 
during the playo ffs if for whatever 
reason the 3-pointers don’t find 
the bottom of the net. 
But of course, this team is built 
on threes. Junior forward Haleigh 
Hatfield and junior guard Sydney 
Sharp have been the team’s most 
consistent shooters from behind 
the arc. Against the Pioneers, 
the pair shot a combined 4–12 
from the 3-point range; however, 
they may need to improve in the playoffs when the Tritons begin to 
take on tougher opponents. 
The team will be the No. 1 seed 
in the playo ffs, and its first game 
will be on Tuesday, March 5 against 
the No. 8 seed, the California State 
University, San Francisco Gators, 
at 5:30 p.m. at RIMAC Arena. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Cal State San Bernardino
vs. San Francisco Stateat Sonoma Stateat San Francisco Stateat StanfordUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Basketball
W Basketball
Softball
Baseball
M Volleyball7:30PM5:30PM
12PM
2PM7PM3/53/53/83/83/9
Men’s 
Basketball 
Secures 
Second Seed in CCAA 
Tourney
A week of wins gives the 
Tritons home court against San 
Bernardino. men's Basketball
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team closed out the 
2018-19 regular season with two 
home games against two conference 
rivals: California State University 
Monterey Bay and California State 
University East Bay. In both outings, 
the Tritons were able to come away 
with wins, li fting their overall 
record to 22–7, 17–5 in California 
Collegiate Athletic Conference play. 
With this week’s results, UCSD 
firmly places itself in second place in 
CCAA rankings. Though UCSD is 
technically tied with California State 
Polytechnic University Pomona in 
terms of conference record at 17–5, the Broncos beat the Tritons when 
they faced o ff in early February, 
giving them the tiebreaker, and 
the top seed in the CCAA playo ff 
tournament.
In the final week of the regular 
season, the Tritons were able to handle business, stopping their sub-
par play just at the right time. First, 
the team broke out of their slump 
in a big way, defeating CSUMB by a 
record-setting final score of 118–66 
and then beating CSUEB 70–57. 
In the two games, the Tritons 
outscored their opponents by a 
combined 74 points. Senior guard 
Christian Bayne was a consistent 
performer in both games. In the 
two games, the CCAA Player of the Week put up a combined 37 points. Redshirt junior center Chris Hansen 
had an explosive game against 
CSUEB, throwing down a team-high 26 points that night. 
This was a nice bounce-back for 
the redshirt junior a fter he only put 
up 8 points in the previous game against CSUMB. In the final game 
against CSUEB, UCSD switched up its starting five, putting redshirt 
junior Ben Rico and senior Eric Patton in at forward and guard, instead of junior Scott Everman and 
redshirt sophomore Mikey Howell. 
It did not have a larger e ffect on the 
game (Everman and Howell, despite not starting, did log a signi ficant 
amount of game minutes), but it is interesting to see bench players getting more playing time in preparation for the playo ff push. 
The Tritons hope to carry this 
momentum into the postseason. UCSD starts o ff the postseason with 
the CCAA tournament this week. On Tuesday, UCSD squares o ff 
against seventh-ranked California State University San Bernardino in 
the first round of the tournament. 
During the regular season, 
the Seawolves and Tritons played 
twice: UCSD won the first matchup 
at RIMAC Arena 97–63 and San 
Bernardino took the second game 
77–75. Though the Tritons handled 
the Seawolves in their first game, 
the game was played way back in 
November. San Bernardino had 
a lot of time to adjust and learn between games. And they did. The Seawolves were able to beat the 
Tritons in their next meeting in a 
close game. Despite the close score, San Bernardino’s ability to stay 
determined and come away with 
the win will be crucial, especially in 
elimination, tournament-style play. 
UCSD closed out its season on 
a four-game winning streak, while 
CSUSB went out on a four-game 
losing streak. Their new-found 
momentum seems to be the key 
difference between the teams that 
will get the Tritons the win. The 
game against CSUSB will be a home 
game at RIMAC Arena on Tuesday, 
March 5 and tipo ff is at 7:30 p.m.
WESLEY XIAO   wex057@ucsd.eduBY Wesley Xiao
STAFF WRITERPHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICS
JACK DORFMAN   SPORTS@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Women’s Basketball Rewrites History with Weekend Win
Tritons cap of their regular season and head into the playoffs as the top seed. 
JACK DORFMAn
SPORTS EDITOR
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICS