UC San Diego Health recently 
became one of the first health 
centers nationwide to adopt the 3D imaging technique, Dynamic Morphology Correction, in aortic aneurysm surgery. This new procedure offers greater efficiency for the treatment of aortic aneurysms while also lowering the difficulty of the operation and minimizing human exposure to medical radiation. 
The aorta is the main blood 
vessel that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the human body. “ Aortic aneurysm” refers 
to the weakening and bulging 
of the aortic wall typically due to aging or disease. Without surgery, damaged aortic tissues may rupture and cause life-threatening internal bleeding. In surgeries of an aortic 
aneurysm, surgeons implant a stent graft made of plastic and a fabric-coated tube with wires wrapped around it. This device serves the function of carrying blood instead of the damaged 
aortic tissues. Meanwhile, the 
implantation process must be handled with extra care as the stent graft must be oriented UC San Diego scientists have recently 
discovered the mechanism that allows 
tardigrades, a microscopic animal species, 
to survive extreme conditions. Published on Oct. 1, 
2019 in the eLife journal, the study established 
how Dsup, a protein found only in tardigrades, 
functions in the animal’s body. 
Tardigrades, commonly known as water bears 
or moss piglets, are aquatic micro-animals that 
live almost everywhere on Earth. Considered 
extremophiles, tardigrades have been found to even be able to survive in space against the vacuum 
and radiation of low-Earth orbit. When not in 
the water, tardigrades go into a dehydrated state, allowing them to be much more resistant to outside conditions. 
With the scientific community’s increasing 
interest in tardigrades over the years, distinguished professor of biological sciences Dr. Jame Kardonaga found that his lab could be well-suited to do the 
research. 
“[Dsup] looked like a protein that had to do 
with chromatin (natural form of DNA packaged with proteins), ” Dr. Kadonaga said to the UCSD 
Guardian. “We’ve been working on chromatin 
for the last 30 years and it looked like Dsup was a 
chromatin protein. So when Carolina Chavez, who 
was an undergraduate here, contacted me to find a lab to work in, I let her start working on it. ”
The tardigrade study was written by 
undergraduate Carolina Chavez (now a Ph.D. student at UCLA), Postdoctoral Fellow Grisel Cruz-Becerra, Assistant Project Scientist Jia Fei, Research 
Scientist George A. Kassavetis, and Distinguished 
Professor James T. Kadonaga.
Previous research on tardigrades had already 
made the connection between Dsup and its protection against X-rays, but research had yet to indicate how this mechanism works. Through this 
new study, the UCSD scientists were able to fill in 
this gap of knowledge.  “X-rays create hydroxyl radicals that hit the 
DNA, ” Dr. Kadonaga said. “We found that the 
Dsup binds to [units of chromatin], creating 
a protective cloud that protects the cell from hydroxyl radicals. That explains how Dsup proteins 
make cells resistant to X-rays. ”
With this link, the scientists were able to 
understand how Dsup functions in tardigrades 
and how the protein creates a protective barrier. 
This barrier in turn would make possible practical 
applications when applied to humans.
“Theoretically, if you add Dsup to [human] 
cells, it could promote cell longevity and durability, ” Dr. Kadonaga said. “Some pharmaceuticals are made with cultured hamster cells; [with Dsup], you might be able to make the cells tougher. It 
might even be possible to use [Dsup] in cell-based 
therapies for cancer by modifying blood T cells to be tougher. ”
The study also made an additional discovery 
but has yet to fully fathom those results. It turns out that Dsup has a particular binding pattern that is very similar to a binding protein for chromatin that 
is found exclusively in vertebrates. The connection 
between the binding protein in tardigrades and 
vertebrates has yet to be explained. For now, the 
scientists are continuing to study Dsup to better 
understand the protein’s functions. 
“Our immediate goal is to get a more precise 
understanding of what the protein does, ” Dr. Kadonaga said. “We want to narrow down exactly what part of the protein binds to the [chromatin unit]. We also wanted to understand each of the 
functional regions of Dsup. This could be useful for 
the applications of the protein I talked about: if we really understood all the working parts, we might 
be able to engineer an improved version of Dsup. ”
Following the release of the paper, tardigrade 
experts from around the world reached out to the team to commend their work and provide positive 
feedback.VOLUME 53, ISSUE 3  MONDA Y , OCTOBER 14, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Analyzing AS — The 
Fund Allocations in 
Detail 
$112,035.98 was allocated to 57 different 
undergraduate student organizations to provide funding for a number of programs.
MEDICINE
UC San Diego Surgeons Use New Technology to Repair Aneuryisms
UCSD student DJ Edric opens the DVC music event along with other student artists Bex, ZAN, and Scales // Photo by James SongA.S. Council rolled out 162 
written reports to allocate a total 
of $112,035.98 to 57 on-campus 
student organizations using a portion of its budget funded by 
student fees. These funds were 
allocated to allow a variety of groups, including Greek life, religious groups, and academic 
organizations, to put on 162 
different events or projects over the course of Fall Quarter.
The funding for programs 
provided by A.S. Council is available to every undergraduate 
at UC San Diego who is a principal 
member of a registered student organization. These funds can go to a number of projects, including 
hosting a speaker, putting on a 
concert, throwing a cultural event, or having a general body meeting.
While available to everyone, 
student organizations are only 
allowed to request up to a certain 
amount of funding depending on 
how many undergraduate students 
are expected to attend the said program. This ranges from up to 
$150 for events with a predicted 
attendance of anywhere between one and 25 students to a potential total of $9000 in funding for 
events with over 501 students in 
attendance.
There are a number of ways to 
break down how this large budget was allocated. The largest allocation of all was $13,818.48 to the 
Multicultural Greek Council, which 
will fund three different events — Summerfest, the Multicultural 
Greek Council Fraternity and 
Sorority Life Conference and the MGC Info Night. Greek life, in general, received the largest 
plurality of the funds, with 10 
different organizations falling 
under the greek category receiving 
$43,738.87 to fund 22 different projects.
Science, technology, 
engineering, and math groups took home another large chunk of the budget — receiving $25,422.85 
to fund 70 different programs. 
The groups receiving these funds include the Association for Computing Machinery, the Institute 
of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers, the Health and Medical Professionals Preparation Program, 
the Triton Engineering Student 
Council, the Biological Sciences Student Association, the American 
Chemical Society Student Affiliates, 
the Alpha Epsilon Delta Pre-Health Professional Honor Society, the Biomedical Engineering Society, 
the Medical Educational Missions 
and Outreach, the Cognitive Science Student Association, the 
American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers, the Pre-Pharmacy Society, Society of Undergraduate By  andrew ha   
editorial assistantRESEARCH
Researchers at UCSD Study the Extreme Lives of  TardigradesPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"There are still a lot of 
unanswered questions 
about the true health 
risks of vaping, 
but its unwavering 
popularity is scary."
RESOURCE  CENTERS
KISS  MY  AZTECMinority  Support
The  On-Campus  MusicalOPINION,  Page   4
A&E ,   Page  8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"The free marketeers 
at Colt and UC are 
misdirecting us from 
the hand that really 
compelled them 
to halt sales and 
divest: the hand of 
democracy."MONDAY
 H 69 L 56
WEDNESDAY
H 74 L 59
TUESDAY
H 72 L 57
THURSDAY
H 70 L 57
THE POLITICIAN..............8
DOWNTON ABBEY ..........9
WHAT’S THE TEA..........10
TIMEOUT........................15
WOMEN’S SOCCER......16ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Niall Twohig
Letter to the Editor: Democracy
 PAGE 5UC San Diego Health is the third medical institution in the nation to implement this 3D technology.
BY zhouying lin
contributing writerBY JACOB SUTHERLAND
NEWS editorA BUNCH OF
SMOKE AND MIRRORS
Features, page 6
See ANEURYISMS,  page 3 See FUNDS,  page 2
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
These fries suck.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Jahfreen Alam
Chloe Esser
Colleen Conradi
Annika Olives
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 Mathematics Students, Insight 
Pre-Optometry, Microtomes, 
and Out in Science, Technology, 
Engineering, and Mathematics.
Religious student organizations 
took home $6,331.50 to fund 11 different programs. These groups include the Catholic Student Community, the Muslim Student 
Assocation, Reedemer’s Grace 
Church, Navigators, and 4Corners Christian Fellowship at UCSD.
The Associated Students 
programming funds are available to be applied for six weeks prior to the event date, with applications 
either being approved or denied 
five weeks before the prospective event date. Students interested in 
applying for programming funds 
through Associated Students can learn more about the funds in the updated online Associated 
Students Funding Guide.The programming funds are available to all undergraduate students who apply six weeks before their event date
▶ FUNDS , from page 1
Sunday, Oct. 6
12:08 a.m. Injury - Muir Tennis CourtsMale slammed into another player while playing volleyball. Report taken.1:44 a.m. Disturbance - Vehicle - The Village EastLoud vehicle driving around with passengers screaming inside. Unable to locate.7:14 a.m. Medical Aid - Brennan HallFemale drank too much alcohol, elevated heart rate. Transported to hospital.
10:56 a.m. Welfare Check - The 
Village EastMother concerned about daughter, hasn’t heard from her in a while, acting unusual; contact made. Checks OK.12:52 p.m. Water Leak - Price CenterWater leaking from ceiling. Referred to Facilities Management.2:42 p.m. Petty Theft - One MiramarBicycle stolen; loss $600. Report taken.9:19 p.m. Petty Theft - Mesa Nueva Building DIndividual heard using grinder tool being used to cut bike locks. Unable to locate.
Monday, Oct. 7
12:41 a.m. Possession of Marijuana - Village East 
Building 3
Odor of marijuana near laundry room. Unable to locate.1:27 a.m. Noise Disturbance - Tamarack ApartmentsHears subjects yelling inside apartment. Referred to Student Conduct.4:43 a.m. Medical Aid - Argo HallAdult female with heart palpitations, dizzy with headache; conscious and breathing; Transported to hospital. Referred to San Diego Fire Department.11:21 a.m. Medical Aid - Goody’sAdult female conscious, having 
trouble breathing; medics 
enroute. Referred to San Diego Fire Department.11:49 a.m. Hazard Situation - I-5 southbound between Genesee and La Jolla Village DrMale on freeway riding bicycle. Referred to California Highway Patrol.8:39 p.m. Welfare Check - Mesa Nueva Building AReporting party has not heard from son tonight, requesting son give her a call. Service provided.10:32 p.m. Possession of Marijuana - Revelle ApartmentsReporting party smelled odor of marijuana when they saw four residents run into apartment refusing to answer the door. Referred to Student Conduct.
Tuesday, Oct. 8
12:18 a.m. Disturbance - Domestic Violence - Via MallorcaDispute over child custody. Referred to San Diego Police Department.2:51 a.m. Citizen Contact - Meteor HallFour subjects found sleeping in lounge. Will cooperate.4:30 a.m. Illegal Camping - Deep Sea Drilling Program WestTransient male sleeping outside custodian locker. Field interview.8:26 a.m. Information Only - North Torrey Pines Ct
Report of fumes coming into 
building. Referred to UC San Diego.12:25 p.m. - 1:50 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle - RIMAC Bike RackFront and rear lights stolen off bike; loss $12.99. Online Report.2:00 p.m. Illegal Parking - Koman Family Outpatient PavilionFemale parked and left vehicle in valet blocking other vehicles; female threw keys on ground and went inside the building. Service provided.7:07 p.m. Psych Subject - Frankfurter HallReporting party concerned about son having suicidal ideations. Report taken.
Wednesday, Oct. 9
12:48 a.m. Noise Disturbance - 
Douglas HallHears people talking loud and shouting. Referred to Student Conduct.9:49 a.m. Information Only - 64 DegreesReport of male transient talking to himself. Information only.11:06 a.m. Disturbance - Verbal Argument - Rady School of ManagementMale refusing to leave; subject is now leaving building. Cancelled.Unknown time. Vandalism - Humanities and Social Sciences BuildingUnknown subject(s) painted 
graffiti and used an unknown 
object to put a hole in a wall. Report taken.2:34 p.m. Medical Aid - Carlsbad State BeachFemale was bitten by something in the water. Referred to City of Carlsbad Lifeguards.3:40 p.m. Stay Away Order - Price CenterTransient male took item away from janitor’s area and causing a disturbance. Report taken.8:10 p.m. Attempted Battery - UCSD Medical Facility - HillcrestPsychiatric patient attempted to strike medical staff in the face. Hospital security report taken.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edujacob  sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
INTO THE LIBRARY 2 
By Michi Sora
Play The Game That
   Will Change Your Life...
at UL TRAZONE
...
...
RANKED AMONG
IN USA
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  619.221.0100
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at 
20% OFF Your Event!UCSD 
Greeks / Student Orgs:
#ultrazonesd
“COLLEGE 
  NIGHT” 
Thursday —
3rd Game FREE
GROUP 
EVENTS
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
COLLEGE 
” 
3rd Game FREE
Huge Party Area 
to 200 Guests
LATE NIGHT
at the ZONE 
Fri & Sat • 10:30pm to Midnight
$6.50 per Game
This new 3D technology , developed by Cydar Medical, cuts surgery for aortic aneuryisms in half  
▶ ANEURYISMS , from page 1
correctly and in an upright position to 
connect to the other blood vessels.
Contrast dyes composed of 
radioactive iodine are necessary to show blood vessels in an X-ray image due to the black and white nature of the image.  By adding iodine into patients and taking X-rays continuously throughout the operation, surgeons could locate blood vessels and position the stent graft in the right place. However, this process 
is highly complex and challenging, as 
the radioactivity of both iodine and X-rays can cause harm to both patients and surgeons. 
“ Aorta becomes tortuous as we get 
old,” Dr. Mahmoud Malas, the first vascular and endovascular surgeon to operate aortic aneurysm with 3D 
imaging at UCSD Health, said to the 
UCSD Guardian. “It moves when you put the stiff wire [in] … X-ray doesn’t show you the aorta, so you just keep 
shooting dyes to see where the vessel is. ”
Now with Dynamic Morphology 
Correction, which was originally 
developed by Cydar Medical, the need for contrast dyes is significantly reduced. Prior to the day of operation, surgeons use the technology to build a computerized 3D model of the patient’s aneurysm using a CT scan. Surgeons then take an X-ray of the patient on operation day and align this image with the previously built 3D model using two bone landmarks marked in the CT scan. This then gives back a real-time image of a patient’s blood vessels.
“Cydar incorporates machine 
learning, it adjust itself and you can also manually move [the image], ” Malas said.
Malas mentioned that holes 
connected to other blood vessels are also colored on the Cydar model. He explained that this helps surgeons locate visceral vessels in a shorter time, and 
noted that the procedure time has 
been cut in half because of this new technology.
UCSD Health is the third medical 
institution in the nation and the first on the west coast to apply 3D imaging in aortic aneurysm. Despite paying thousands of dollars as annual fees to Cydar Medical, UCSD currently does not charge its patients with an aortic aneurysm an extra fee for the incorporation of the new technology.
zhuoying  lin  zhl509@ucsd.edu
Questions? Contact 
Us at news@
ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  Younger
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Going,  
Going , GoNE :
After a decade of rapid expansion 
and another record-breaking year of admissions offers, UC 
San Diego will be home to nearly 39,000 students this year, all of whom will need help with some combination of housing, financial aid, academic advising, mental 
health counseling, tutoring, and social 
integration. UCSD has introduced a number of developments to compensate for such rapid population growth: new parking structures, nearly 2000 new beds 
and more classrooms, all introduced in 
the North Torrey Pines Living Learning Community currently under construction where the long-dead Muir parking lots 
once lived. 
UCSD is pouring millions of dollars 
into the NTPLLC trying to meet the basic 
requirements to accommodate such a large student body, but these developments have 
some blind spots. Each addresses universal 
obstacles to higher education — those that affect the campus population as a whole but do not include unique challenges faced 
by certain communities. Minority groups 
on campus confront the same barriers to higher education as the rest of the campus, but with additional challenges 
on top for good measure. Yet UCSD has 
not addressed how rapid expansion will affect these communities or how new developments will incorporate minority 
student’s needs. 
Minority groups already have enough 
barriers to success in higher education just 
as the campus is now. Black and Hispanic 
students at UCSD have markedly lower 
retention rates than their White and Asian counterparts. Undocumented students are unable to access resources for financial aid and housing for fear of exposure. 
LGBT+ students are more likely to 
experience violence and harassment than other students. Resource centers exist on campus to bridge the gaps in the college 
experience groups like these, but UCSD has yet to expand these institutions 
anywhere near the rate that they are expanding the campus. 
Resource centers perform functions 
that universal projects and resources can not: they offer counseling and education as it relates to their target students, they 
help students navigate campus and local 
bureaucracies to identify other useful resources, academic or otherwise. And perhaps most importantly, they concentrate increasingly diffuse communities around 
a set point within an impersonal campus. 
Resource centers ensure modest but 
vital accommodations that make higher education more accessible and more sustainable experiences. They will be 
the first to feel the pressure of over-
enrollment, though. 
Just numerically, more students on 
campus means more people putting 
pressure on existing resources. Many 
institutions, like the financial aid office or Housing-Dining-Hospitality, serve very large populations and always have. Comparatively, rResource centers reach 
much smaller audiences, so increases to 
campus populations create relatively more strain. Shocks to HDH result in longer lines at dining halls —- a complication 
for students but more an inconvenience than a necessity. Shocks to resource 
centers, especially given that they do not expand based on the number of students 
they serve, can mean a failure to provide 
the resources to UCSD’s most vulnerable students. 
Treatments for stress on resource 
centers are not financial or physical necessarily; more money and bigger spaces will not inevitably close gaps in retention rates or acclimate students to their campus communities. UCSD needs 
to adopt a more comprehensive approach 
to meeting the needs of its students by specializing typically universal resources for specific audiences. 
Tutoring, housing aid, financial aid, 
mental health counseling, and a whole host of resources exist on this campus but usually at a universal level; They often do not address the ways that membership in a 
minority group might affect these needs. 
Counselors in mental health services may not be equipped to tackle issues of race or legal status, and a universal approach to 
financial aid may not lift queer people to 
an economic place where higher education is an option at all, for example. Expanding resource centers will become more and 
more necessary; UCSD should focus on 
filling those gaps between the universal issues faced by all students and the niche issues faced by social and economic 
minorities. 
Resource centers are the forgotten 
institutions getting lost in all the planning 
and development committees. For most of 
the campus, the existing plans will meet 
their needs, but for members of UCSD’s smaller communities, the campus will likely become an increasingly alienating and stressful place. Expanding resource 
centers can mean the difference between 
enabling these students to thrive or losing them in the crowd. 
“Resource centers 
ensure modest but vital 
accommodations that 
make higher education 
more accessible and 
more sustainable 
experiences. They 
will be the first to feel 
the pressure of over-
enrollment, though. By: Chris Robertson // Senior Sta ff WriterResource Centers 
Need Love too
OASIS
HDHCAPS
FINANCIAL AIDOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
The Invisible Hand of Democracy
Don’t be misled. We, the people, have won two small 
victories in the struggle for democracy: We forced Colt to 
stop selling assault rifles to the public. We forced the UC system to divest from fossil fuels. 
Reading statements from Colt and UC financial 
planners, however, you might think another hand was at play. For them, the invisible hand of the market dictated their decisions. The market compelled them from 
unprofitable sectors to more viable and equally pro fitable 
ones. For them, the choice to halt sales and divest just makes sense, economic sense.
But that’s all nonsense. The free marketeers at Colt and UC are misdirecting us 
from the hand that really compelled them to halt sales and divest: the hand of democracy. 
That hand is composed of real people, invisible to 
corporations and corporate media, but visible to those at the grassroots. It is made up of ordinary folk who refuse to numb themselves to mass shootings and the pillaging 
of the earth: Parkland students and parents; sustainability 
collectives within the UC system who protested or lobbied for fossil fuel divestment; students striking for climate justice; indigenous communities who continued a long tradition of stewardship and resistance by blocking pipelines and bulldozers; queer, feminist, Chicanx and BLM activists who refuse to have their people, communities, and ecosystems marked as disposable.
That hand is composed of real people, but it is propelled 
forward by the dead, by those who died prematurely from gun violence, environmental catastrophe, warfare, or because the market didn’t see value in giving them the medicine, food, or working conditions needed to live. 
That hand labors for the future, for those who will 
inherit our earth. It strives to hand them a democracy no longer hijacked by industries of death and destruction. It strives to hand them a living, egalitarian world. 
The free marketeers want us to forget all that. They want 
us to focus, instead, on the invisible hand of the market. 
Have faith in that hand, they tell us. It will guide us to 
a promised land where we can have our pro fits, second 
amendment rights, and planet too.
But we, at the grassroots, don’t buy it.Like Dorothy in Oz, we see through the financial 
wizard’s smoke and mirrors. We see that their God is really a machine built and operated by an elite class of men who is willing to spill blood, drain oil, and burn forests so they can reap a pro fit. 
Their machine — capitalism — is broken. The physics 
that drives their machine — endless consumption and endless pro fitability — can no longer be sustained. 
This becomes more evident each day.The last trick the neoliberal wizards have up their 
sleeve is to fool us into thinking that the broken machine is our only option. That we must bow 
down to it as if it were God. That we must keep 
faith in its laws. That we must continue to 
operate by its rules. 
This is precisely what the financial wizards 
of Colt and the UC are telling us to believe. That’s precisely what Trump and Bolsonaro 
are telling us to believe. 
But their God is dead.Or rather, we at the grassroots of democracy, 
know that God never existed. We’ve always seen the men behind the machine. We’ve 
always known it was our hands and labor 
that restrained their inhumane markets. We’ve always known it was our hands and labor that held back the fascism they turned to when their machine faltered. We’ve always known greater freedoms than the ones they sold us.
No. We won’t be fooled by the free marketeer’s 
rationale. Th eir hands were tied. 
The hand of democracy halted Colt’s public sales of 
assault rifles. The hand of democracy divested the UC 
from fossil fuels. That hand will continue to break free 
of obsolescent industries. It will do so, not to maintain profits, but to sustain this priceless and fragile spark of 
life endowed to each and every one of us.Free marketeers want us to believe their rationale for halting assault rifle sales 
and divesting from fossil fuels. We don’t buy it.
By: Niall Twohig  // Guest Writer
Niall Twohig teaches systemic analysis in Warren 
College Writing.
This piece was originally published in the Ob Rag 
https://obrag.org/2019/09/the-invisible-hand-of-
democracy-wins-two-small-victories-over-colt-and-the-university-of-california/6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
Popular culture has the ability to make anything mainstream. 
From certain fashion trends to the hoverboard, there are always new developments waiting to infiltrate the general public. Some 
of the trends, like the now fossilized hoverboard, have short lifespans and are quickly replaced with the newer and trendier. Other products can evolve into cultural staples and are pushed to the forefront of a new generation. 
Vaping has reached these heights. Vaping is the action of inhaling 
and exhaling the vapor produced by an electronic cigarette or a similar device that may look like a flash drive. Vapes are now most commonly associated with Generation Z, which is the demographic group of those born in the mid-1900s to early 2000s, because vape companies target younger age groups. It is impossible to walk around any major city without seeing at least someone 25 years or younger vaping to their heart’s desire. There is a lot of advertising by way of TV commercials and billboards that promote vaping as a tool to quit smoking cigarettes. 
A lot of these ads simply promote it as a cool thing to do, especially with 
the availability of all of the different flavors. The variety of flavors gives the vape a taste that will appeal to pre-teens or children who might view it more as a toy with  a sweet taste rather than something that could damage their lungs.
Juul Labs, a company established 2015 in San Francisco, is the face of 
the vaping movement. The company created and sold 17 million units of a vape fittingly called the juul. The juul is the most popular commercial vape, and the company has taken over the whole nicotine scene by being one of the first companies to target the youth rather than adults who are looking for an alternative source of nicotine. The branding of the juul as a modern cigarette alternative took the whole vaping industry to a higher status within party and popular culture. It isn’t just Juul Labs —  a variety of other vape companies like Suorin or Smoktech are benefiting from the popularity of e-cigarettes as well.
The start of the now-established vaping industry can be traced to a 
marketing campaign that began when Juul launched and ended in late 2018. It featured a social media heavy campaign to reel in the youth at the high school level. This campaign was described in a Vox article by Julia Belluz which stated that “Juul launched a “Vaporized” campaign. Again, its colorful ads — blasted out on billboards, in magazines, and 
on social media — featured happy, playful 20-something models. ” 
The slogans that were featured in Juul marketing campaigns featured tag lines like “simple, smart, intensely satisfying” or promises to “improve the lives of the world’s 1 billion adult smokers by eliminating cigarettes. ” By promoting the juul in a fashion that implies it carries less consequences than smoking a cigarette, Juul entered the mass market with more innocence than big tobacco companies, which are legally required to provide a health warning statement upon sale. Once the ball started to roll when it came to marketing, it led to the youth maintaining the marketing as it became cool to vape, especially to use a Juul. All that it takes for a nicotine product to stick is for some audience to use it. Following the start, people become hooked for life and the companies receive marketing from the people as they will promote the product themselves. This was the manner in which Juul Labs is able to sustain momentum in the marketplace. 
This targeting of a younger audience soon became apparent 
to regulators and it led to a response from the Food and Drug Administration. It issued the following statement on September 9, 2019.
“The U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning letter 
to JUUL Labs Inc. for marketing unauthorized modified risk tobacco products by engaging in labeling, advertising, and/or other activities directed to consumers, including a presentation given to youth at a school. ”
The warning did result in a halt of the marketing towards the 
younger audience as they toned down the social media usage. Still, the popularity established prevented the warning from affecting the sales. 
Many argue that only strict legal regulations will lead to the 
product losing steam. So far the states that have banned vaping sales or pursed policy for vaping regulations include New York, California, Washington, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Michigan. Most of these come as a response to the aftermath of the incidents related to vaping. With the recent media coverage, the politicians have felt the pressure to push some sort of policy. 
Their audience has reached high schools, college campuses, and even 
middle schools alike as stress and party culture has led it to uncharted popularity even on a smoke-free campus like UC San Diego. The possible health risks are still up in the air, but there have been enough studies done in order to establish some risks that are known and others that are simply being projected by the stigma of smoking.
According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, there 
have been 1,299 probable lung injury cases since 2016 that have been a result of vaping. Thirteen percent came from products that only contain nicotine and 58 percent came from nicotine products that have THC, the main ingredient in cannabis, in them. Fifty-four percent of these patients were 24 years or younger, the typical age of a college student. There have been 26 deaths from these cases. Although it appears to be that the cartridges with THC infused with nicotine have been the cause of most lung injuries, there some of the injuries have been caused by extreme usage of juuls. Introducing vaping into a young audience itself 
 
A  Bunch  of  Smoke 
and  Mirrors
There are still a lot of unanswered questions about the true health risks of vaping, but its 
unwavering popularity is scary.
By Nelson  Espinal    Contributing writer
The rising dominance of vaping is a cultural phenomenon that can be traced back to 
societal rejection of tradition cigarettes. Will vapes see the same fallout in the future?ART COURTESY OF LEANNE CHEN
See VAPING,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
does contribute to the vaping injuries to some extent and Juul Labs 
can’t avoid the blame by pointing to the THC as the problem itself. The making of the vape mainstream does lend them liable to all of these injuries. 
These incidents have led to political measures being seriously 
considered. The city of Los Angeles is considering a ban of all e-cigarettes. 
“The city of Los Angeles is not content to wait and do nothing as 
the numbers of illnesses and even deaths associated with unregulated vaping devices increases daily, ” Councilmember Paul Koretz stated in USA Today.
His announcement came a couple of days after President Donald 
Trump called for the banning of e-cigarettes. 
“We want to discuss the situation because not only is it a problem 
overall but, really, specifically, with respect to children, we’re getting some 
stories that we don’t want to hear, ” 
he said at a White House hearing. “ And we may very well have to do something very, very strong about it. ” 
The recent activity from these 
politicians, especially Trump, symbolizes a murky future for Juul 
Lab and other companies, as they may 
have their products pulled until there is definitive proof that vapes do not cause significant harm. 
The solution to the vaping problem is not as simple as restricting 
vape sales. Some good has come from the rising popularity of vapes: e-cigarettes have helped cigarette smokers quit by knowing that there are other ways of receiving nicotine and they are even more accessible. The lack of long-term studies on vaping effects is concerning due to simply having a lack of information, but it is known that cigarettes are directly linked with lung cancer. A UCSD student who wished to remain anonymous explained how vaping helped him significantly cut back on his once-heavy cigarette use. 
“Vaping fills the need for nicotine that cigarettes created, ” he said. “ As 
a whole, it’s more pleasant and accessible at all times. With a cigarette, you have to smoke the whole thing at once, but with a vape you can pace yourself. It just became more practical and I am still getting nicotine. ”
There is a lot of value in transitioning people away from cigarettes 
into an alternative method of receiving nicotine. For adults who struggle with smoking cigarettes, vaping provides a way to buy time until they can possibly quit smoking all together. A study done by the New England Journal of Medicine showed that e-cigarettes allowed for 18 percent of smokers to quit while other methods like nicotine gum 
only yielded 9.9 percent of people that stopped smoking. It concluded 
that, “E-cigarettes were more effective for smoking cessation than nicotine-replacement therapy, when both products were accompanied by behavioral support. ” The demonization of vaping could potentially lead people who have transitioned to go back to cigarettes and erase some of their progress via bans on vapes.  The question looming over the vaping industry is about the long-
term effects of vaping and whether it is definitely better than smoking a cigarette. Although the chemicals and carcinogens are different when it comes to vaping, that doesn’t make them better. There is a lack of answers when it comes to this question as there are a lot of studies that contradict each other in different fashions. 
A now infamous study conducted by Public Health England 
concluded that “the results of the demonstration visually illustrate the stark contrast between the impacts of smoking and vaping. Research estimates that while not risk-free, vaping is at least 95 percent less harmful than smoking. ” The results should be promising for vaping, but there was a lot of backlash based on these findings as they were commonly criticized. Dr. Albert Rizzo, Chief Medical Officer for the American Lung Association, told the New York Times that, “To say that 
something is safer than a product like cigarettes that kills seven million 
people in the world each year because 
of tobacco-related disease, and half a million people in this country, is not saying a lot. ” Contracting findings like these are commonplace throughout the scientific community as there simply hasn’t been much time to 
analyze the effects that vaping has on 
people and their bodies. Making very extreme claims on either side would 
be unfair to the scientific method. 
On the other hand, a study by Dharma N. Bhatta, and Stanton A. 
Glantz published in the Journal of the American Heart Association concluded that the “Effect of e ‐cigarettes are similar as conventional 
cigarette and dual use of e‐cigarettes and conventional cigarettes at the same time is riskier than using either product alone. ” This finding would coincide with studies that show nicotine causes problems with blood pressure and the heart as a whole. Finding a direct link to lung cancer has not been cemented yet as it is early in the life of vaping, but there is risk of heart problems in the future via consumption of nicotine. The combination of these potential cardiovascular risks and the lurking threat of the chemicals found in vape leads to an alternative to cigarettes that can be potentially just as dangerous.
At the end of the day, vaping will remain as a prevalent feature 
of culture for our generation going forward. It has been normalized among Gen Z and has a good portion of teenagers already hooked. Significant evidence argues that e-cigarettes are not safe to use and that they actually provide detrimental health risks. The following steps of the government and other regulators will prove to be important as more studies are done into the health risk of vaping. Until then, there 
will be just as many questions about vaping as about the exact concerns 
for anyone who is already vaping or looking to start. There is potential for the marketing of vaping products to cause serious health problems for those that are already hooked, or it may end up being a legitimately viable tool for those looking to turn to a healthier way of smoking.
“Although the chemicals 
and carcinogens are 
different when it comes to 
vaping, that doesn’t make 
them better.”▶ VAPING , from page 6
NELSON  ESPINAL   NESPINAL@UCSD.EDUA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
“The Politician” is a disaster — I love it. “Kiss My Aztec” from the La Jolla Playhouse is a fun, unapologetically silly re-imagining of Aztec history.
When “The Politician” seduces you, it 
does so loudly, with firm direction and vibrant color. In its first 15 minutes, it 
promises a show that is clever and current, but light enough for a weekend Netflix binge. We 
start off with Payton Hobart (Ben Platt), a high 
school senior who has been set on one goal his whole life: becoming president. Every aspect of his life has been mapped out through his careful study of all presidents, past and present. The next step in his plan is clear: become class president of his upper-class Santa Barbara high school. The catch? His newly-announced opponent, River Barkley (David Corenswet), a golden boy with 
shocking depth, is the boy that Payton has also 
been having a secret affair with for months.
“ Ah, ” you might think, contentedly, at this 
point in the show. “I see what this is going to be about. This is a relevant show exploring the wild ins and outs of our current political world through the microcosm of high school. This campaign will go to ridiculous lengths to achieve success, but we, the viewer, will still be fully invested in all the twists and turns and 
subterfuge. In the end, our heroes will learn an 
important lesson about sexuality, and ambition at the price of being yourself. ”
Well, you thought wrong. “The Politician” is a delightful mess, 
happily picking up possible plot threads and then dropping them moments later in favor of something shinier. Are we talking about Payton’s self-detrimental ambition now? His mother’s lesbian affair? An assassination attempt staged through a school musical? His vice-presidential 
candidate’s (possibly not real) cancer and her 
domineering grandmother? Characters are disinherited and reunited seemingly at the whims of a bored god with a short attention span. They attempt to poison each other in one episode and appear as the best of friends in the next. Despite its concise eight-episode season, “The Politician” still finds the time to completely forget that it’s about a school election, 
spending episodes on unrelated side drama, 
before anxiously remembering and picking up that plotline with a renewed fervor. 
The show’s creators are Ryan Murphy, Brad 
Falchuck, and Ian Brennan. Murphy, Falchuck, and Brennan are also known for their work on “Glee, ” which certainly seems to make sense at first glance. There is definitely a ghostly resemblance to “Glee” that runs through the heart of the show — in it’s Type A, endearingly 
terrible protagonist, its penchant towards bizarre 
storylines and overblown drama, and of course, the musical numbers. “The Politician” is no “Glee” though, which for all its infamy, was at least purposeful and competent in its first seasons. “The Politician’s” stylized over-direction far overshoots “charming” and nearly lands in “headache-inducing” territory. Payton’s character and growth are often left by the wayside, only for the show to pretend it was central by its end. The musical numbers exist on an inconsistent 
basis that feels like it depended less on narrative 
pacing, and more on someone in the writer’s room suddenly remembering that they had Ben Platt as the lead. 
But here is the key: It is very fun. Y es, the 
plot is convoluted and poorly paced, but it hardly seems to matter as the constantly moving machine of stray plot threads constantly provides something to keep you excitedly clicking on 
the next episode. It would be wrong to call 
“The Politician” a particularly funny show, but there’s a light-hearted feeling even in its darker moments, and enough well-placed jokes to keep the viewer entertained despite anything else. Ben Platt shines especially as he brings both his musical and acting talent to the show, adding an endearing and even relatable element to Payton, who otherwise could have easily been made unlikeable due to his ambition and privilege. 
Gwenyth Paltrow appears as Payton’s mother, 
a woman formerly disillusioned by love who must choose between her own happiness and her family’s, and does a fantastic job with a relatively small role. Jessica Lange, of course, absolutely kills it as Dusty Jackson, an unstable woman caring for her sick granddaughter while struggling with her tendencies towards narcissism and control. What “The Politician” lacks in subtlety and nuance, it seems to make up for in a strong cast and good humor.
The final episode of “The Politician” is a 
bizarrely paced epilogue, in which we catch up with characters four years in the future and wonder why we are until the very end. But finally. there it is: The promise of a season two and another election, this time against an incumbent New York state senator whose scandalous sex life may provide the key to her downfall. And wouldn’t you know it, those b------- did it again! 
I know that season two of this show isn’t going 
to be the witty, satisfying, overblown political drama it so artfully has already set itself up to be. But part of me, the part that has been trained by a history of media generally making some sense, still expects it to be that. But I know it won’t be. But I also know that it will be beautiful, it will be ridiculous, it will be entertaining, and, most 
of all, it will be bad. But I will still be watching.
—  CHLOE  ESSER 
A&E EditorIn the first musical number of the chaotically fun play “Kiss My Aztec, ” our ancient Aztec protagonists leap onto the stage to sing 
about the invading Spaniards (“White People On Boats”). During the song, the male lead Pepe (Joel Perez) says in an uncanny President Donald Trump imitation, “They’re bringing disease. 
They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And 
some, I assume, are good people. ” 
Pepe is, of course, referring to white 
Europeans. The moment receives a big laugh, but it also serves the purpose of drawing a line 
between the past and present. “Kiss My Aztec” 
asks the audience to consider: What might have happened if the Aztecs had won against the Spanish in the 1500s? And what would that look 
like as a comedy? 
The story starts with a prophecy from the 
witch Tolima (Maria-Christina Oliveras): If the 
Aztecs do not defeat the Spanish before the coming of the blood moon, the Aztecs will be 
doomed to extinction. The Aztec chief (Chad 
Carstarphen) plans an attack on the citadel, where the wealthy Spanish viceroy resides with his children. The resulting story explores the day before the attack, and it is equal parts dramatic 
twists and splashy dance numbers. 
When at its best, “Kiss My Aztec” is an 
enjoyable and unapologetically silly musical 
with exceptional choreography, rap music, and 
Latinx actors showing off their comedic chops. 
Zachary Infante, who plays the viceroy’s son Fernando, is a particular standout among the cast. A subplot involves Fernando’s enormously entertaining relationship with his gay lover, the 
leader of the Inquisition. In one memorable 
number (“Tango in the Closet”), the conniving yet sweetly endearing couple dance across the stage and sing, “God must be gay!” The close of 
the song brought well-deserved, ear-deafening 
cheers from the giddy audience. 
Also of note are the charmingly anachronistic 
costumes. The Aztecs first burst onto the stage wearing a mix of modern clothes and battle gear 
— colorful tank tops and animal masks, Converse 
high tops and furs. Meanwhile, their Spanish enemies are dressed in frilly royal clothing with puffy sleeves. There is no question about who the good and bad guys are. The good guys are the 
ones who look cool as hell. 
Writers John Leguizamo and Tony Taccone, 
both of whom have won Tony Awards, clearly 
have the know-how to tell a compelling story. 
There is rarely a slow moment in the plot. From 
epic battles to delightful romances, every scene is packed with drama and jokes at every corner. Not all the jokes succeed — there is a recurring gag involving puppets that gets tiresome after 
the third or fourth or … tenth time — but on the 
whole, the play is a pleasure to watch. 
And yet, as humorous as the musical is, 
the tragedy of its true history cannot help but 
hang over the story like an insidious cloud. 
Recent years have brought plenty of historical fictionalized stories told from the perspectives of marginalized peoples, and rightly so. “Kiss My Aztec, ” though, eschews history and attempts to 
change the past altogether. What if the Spanish 
conquistadors had been ridiculous, bumbling fools instead of a terrifying imperial power with guns? What if magic and fate and the gods had been on the side of the Aztecs? What if worldwide 
imperialism could have been defeated by a small, 
ragtag team of heroes? What if? 
Perhaps the play intends to be purely escapist, 
a pleasant fantasy where history had been kinder 
to our heroes. If that were the case, though, 
the characters wouldn’t be making continuous references to Trump’s wall or to the current horrors of immigration law. The play frequently tries to be both escapist and relevant to modern 
issues, and so it doesn’t fully succeed at either. 
Still, that doesn’t change that “Kiss My Aztec” is genuine fun. The Aztecs may not have actually won against the Spanish, but it sure is nice to 
pretend, just for a bittersweet couple of hours, 
that they had.
—  TANY A NGUYEN
Staff Writer
TV   REVIEWMUSICAL   REVIEW
The  POLITICIANKiss  My  AZTEC
PHOTO COURTESY OF LA TIMESPHOTO COURTESY OF LA TIMES
Created by   Ian Brennan, Brad Falchuk, Ryan Murphy
Starring  Ben Platt, Zoey Deutch, Lucy Boynton
Premiered  Sept 27, 2019 on Net flix
Director   Tony Taccone
Starring  Angelica Beliard, Chad Carstarphen, Julio Catano, KC De La Cruz
Runs   Sept 3 to Oct 13, 2019
Location   La Jolla Playhouse
CC+CBA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your new F all 
Quarter U-Pass today! 
Valid September 13, 2019 through January 3, 2020.Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.“Downton Abbey” reimmerses fans into the lives of the Grantham family and staff, offering celebration and resolutions nearly four years after the show’s finale.
The following review contains spoilers for the 
“Downton Abbey” show, although not for the film.
For six years, “Downton Abbey” won over the 
hearts of fans with its drama, beloved characters, 
and tongue-in-cheek humor, the latter mostly 
provided by the infamous Maggie Smith. Set 
in the 1910s and 1920s, this show centered on the Grantham family and their staff to provide a glimpse of how society functioned during the final years of British grand estates. Now these same characters and their stories appeared on the big screen for the first time, allowing fans the chance to revisit Downton one more time. It should be noted that this is a movie clearly 
made for its fans, opting to spend its runtime 
focusing on progressing past the show’s finale instead of bogging itself down with explanations and appeals to unfamiliar audiences. As such, I would advise anyone considering seeing the film “Downton Abbey” to watch the series first (the whole show is free with Amazon student prime accounts). 
The film “Downton Abbey” takes place in 
1927 — almost two years after the show’s finale — and opens with the Grantham family receiving a letter that King George V and Queen Mary are going to visit Downton Abbey as a part of touring country estates. This throws the household into a whirlwind of eager anticipation as the family and staff prepare to host their finest guests yet. However, several days before the royals are to arrive, their own household staff precedes them 
and tries to usurp the Downton staff. The rest of 
the movie chronicles the misadventures that take place over the course of this royal visit, all the while weaving in the personal lives of both the Grantham family and staff. The most prominent of these subplots involves, per usual, the Dowager Countess of Grantham (Maggie Smith) as she confronts her estranged relation Lady Bagshaw 
(Imelda Staunton) about her choice to leave her 
entire fortune to her lady’s maid. Additionally, Tom Branson’s (Allen Leech) past as an Irish Republican with anti-monarchical values catches up with him over the course of the royal visit. Other notable side stories include relationship drama for Daisy Mason (Sophie McShera), Edith Pelham’s (Laura Carmichael) adjustment to marriage, and Thomas Barrow’s (Robert James-
Collier) continued efforts to find an accepting 
community as a closeted gay man. 
While many other critics accuse the film 
“Downton Abbey” of not being intricate or engaging enough — with a review in The New Y ork Times even going so far as to claim “the movie is mainly empty calories” — I feel that this is an unfair assessment of what the film was trying to accomplish. The movie “Downton Abbey” is as 
much a celebration as it is a continuation of the 
Grantham family and staff’s stories. It’s apparent from the way that the camera lingers on certain scenes, inviting viewers to examine the rooms and actions in a more stylized, slow manner that we’re supposed to feel a part of the Abbey. Of course the plotline and character development can’t be as rigorous as the show; here they’re working with two hours to showcase the characters’ progress in 
two years rather than spending a whole season on 
that same amount of time. If anything, watching this movie felt more like watching an extended episode than a stand-alone film. And that’s all we needed: just a little glimpse back into the lives of the Downton household to see how they’re faring as the roaring 20s slow to a close. “Downton Abbey” is a reunion, a commemoration, and a 
farewell — assuming the producers don’t fall into 
the aforementioned trap of churning out sequels. 
The element of “Downton Abbey” that 
truly cemented my thoughts that its goals were celebration and further resolutions was the further character development witnessed for both Tom Branson and Thomas Barrow. At the time of the film’s plot, nearly seven years have passed since Sybil, Tom’s beloved wife, died due to childbirth 
complications. There were two occasions where 
Tom could have moved on and developed further romantic relationships, but he never pursued them seriously. As much as it saddened me to watch Tom’s loneliness and grief, I appreciated that the show allowed his character to process his loss and come to terms with being a single father. Y et in this film, fans finally get a chance to witness Tom in a more optimistic, healed 
light, exchanging adorable glances and whispers 
with Lady Bagshaw’s lady maid. Furthermore, we witness a reexamination of Tom’s staunch Irish Republican politics and overall identity as he has to interact with the king of England. How Tom conducts himself in these pivotal moments of the plot illustrate that while his views and manners have changed significantly due to his time at Downton Abbey, he remains individualistic. 
Turning to Thomas Barrow’s character 
development, audiences get the chance to observe similar themes of relationships and coming to terms with one’s identity. Since the show’s first episode, fans have been aware that Thomas is a closeted gay man. Over the course of the following six seasons, Thomas faced ostracization and threats of prison sentences, tried phony 
medicinal cures to make himself straight, and even 
attempted suicide in the final season. I’ve always felt that his character development and storyline were the most important additions to “Downton Abbey” because they touch on the harsh realities gay men had to navigate living in both the1920s and sadly still to this day. In this film Thomas’s journey is continued, and while he doesn’t get to have the promise of a perfect “happily ever 
after” due to historical circumstances, there is 
a message of hope. Thomas in this film is a far cry from the vindictive and depressed character he was in season six, and he takes active steps toward accepting his identity as he encounters more gay men who have come to terms with their sexualities. 
Overall, “Downton Abbey” is a joy to watch 
and a must-see for fans. This is due largely to its 
continued characterization, but it’s also worth 
mentioning its musical score and cinematography blend perfectly, allowing this film to be as aesthetically pleasing as ever. In the words of the Dowager Countess, “If I were to search for logic, I would not look for it among the English upper class” — but I would certainly look for a great deal 
of entertainment.  
—  Daisy  Scott
Editor-in-Chief
FILM   REVIEW
DOWNTON  ABBEY
PHOTO COURTESY OF LA TIMES
Starring  Michelle Dockery, Maggie Smith, Hugh Bonneville, Laura Carmichael, 
Elizabeth McGovern, Jim Carter, Allen Leech, Sophie McShera, Rob James-Collier
Premiered  Sept 27, 2019 on Net flixCB+10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Better Buzz Coffee Roasters 
Iced Pumpkin Spice Latte with 
Oat Milk: $6.25
On presentation alone, this drink stands out. 
A minimalist glass cup with a paper straw in an 
open- air aesthetic really elevates this PSL to a 
whole other level. However, what matters most is how the drink tastes, and it’s safe to say that 
Better Buzz hits the mark for fitting all of the best 
flavorstastes of fall into a 16-ounce glass. The pumpkin flavor is very refreshing, and the coffee is subtle enough as to not overpower the drink, 
while still allowing you that caffeine buzz we all 
crave. Getting it with oat milk definitely adds a certain level of creaminess to the drink that I 
found to be worthy of five stars.
Better Buzz has several locations throughout San 
Diego, with the closest (and newest) being in La 
Jolla. Take the 30 towards downtown, getting off 
at Silverado St. and Herschel Ave. Walk down Silverado St, making a right on Fay Ave, and the 
shop will be on your right on Prospect St.On the Hunt in SD: Pumpkin Spice Latte
by Jacob Sutherland, News Editor
Growing up in the Midwest, I never realized how much I took autumn for granted. Feeling the colorful leaves crunch under 
your feet, finding the best pumpkin in the patch, and biting into a warm apple cider donut on a cool Saturday morning are 
all nostalgic joys that are not easy to come by in the everlasting summer of San Diego.
That being said, one universal #ChristianGirlAutumn staple is the pumpkin spice latte. The warmth (or cold, if you like it 
iced like I do) of the pumpkin mixed with the amazing buzz of the espresso is truly a fall classic. So in the spirit of #thotumn, I went around San Diego to find the very best pumpkin spice lattes the city has to offer.
S3 Coffee Bar
Iced Pumpkin Spice Latte with Housemade 
Almond Milk: $5.00
This latte was not my personal favorite, however, I 
can understand why someone may enjoy it. S3 combines 
espresso, pumpkin butter, pumpkin spice, and your choice of 
milk to put their own spin on the fall classic. Where it falls short for me is the pumpkin butter — it makes the drink a 
little too rich and creamy for my taste. However, if you are 
looking for your PSL to have a little bit more of a fruity and grounded taste to it, then S3 Coffee Bar is the spot for you!
Take the 41 to Fashion Valley Mall, then hop on to the Green 
Line Trolley toward Santee, getting off at Grantville. From there, take the 13 toward Kaiser Hospital, getting off at 
Mission Gorge Rd & Vandever Ave. The shop is in the plaza 
across Vandever next to Subway.
The Forum Coffee House
Iced Pumpkin Latte with Coconut Milk: 
$4.50
A campus favorite, the Forum Coffee House offers a number 
of drinks and snacks, including a solid fall favorites menu. 
In regards to their Pumpkin Latte (no spice advertised in 
this version), the drink is definitely a hit! This version is not super heavy, especially with the coconut milk addition, but the 
pumpkin flavor along with the light espresso flavor is a solid 
drink to add to your list of PSLs to try.
Take the 41 south, getting off at Genesee Ave and Derrick Dr. The 
If you are a big fan of the flavor of espresso, then Dark 
Horse’s fall favorite is going to slap for you. Their take is coffee 
first, pumpkin second, which makes sense considering that 
they are known in the San Diego area for their coffee beans. This was also the most affordable option on the list, and one 
thing that I really appreciated was that they offered this iced 
version of the drink in a small (something most coffee shops do not have as an option). Definitely give this one a try if you want something both refreshing and energizing.
Take the 150 south towards downtown, getting off at Front St 
& B St, transferring to the 2 towards North Park. Get off at 
Broadway & 25th, and the shop is 4 short blocks south.Dark Horse Coffee Roasters
Pumpkin Spice Latte with Oat Milk: $4
Everyone loves their pumpkin spice lattes prepared in 
different ways. Some want to have the fall beverage elevated 
to new heights, while others are looking for a safe and familiar 
option. Holsem Coffee’s take on the fall beverage is definitely the latter, and that is not at all a bad thing. Their take offers a strong espresso and spice flavor, with a subtle pumpkin after 
taste. While certainly nothing crazy, this drink is something 
to write home about if you are looking for a basic (and tasty) version of the pumpkin spice latte.
Take the 150 south towards downtown, transferring at Old 
Town to take the 10 to University Ave. and 30th St. The shop is 
just a few steps behind you.Holsem Coffee 
Iced Pumpkin Spice Latte with Oat Milk: 
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
GET INVOLVED
APPLY NOW FOR OPEN POSITIONS WITHIN ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
Visit as.ucsd.edu to apply. Applications due: (10/4-11/1)• CHIEF OF STAFF
• MARKETING STRATEGIST
• GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS 
   DIRECTOR
• JUDICIAL BOARD MEMBER
AND MORE 
Varies by position 
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 10am-3pm
Wednesday: 11am-3pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-4pm
Friday: 1 2pm-5pmFALL 2019Located in the heart of downtown San 
Diego’s Little Italy, modern Modello stands 
apart from the other restaurants in the 
neighborhood. I headed here with a group of friends on a Friday night, and it did not 
disappoint. 
The Food
Monello’s claim to fame is their cheese 
wheel, which involves tossing hot pasta — sauce and all — in the middle of a 
carved wheel. This dish changes weekly, but our night it was spaghetti in a lobster 
bisque sauce, topped with prawns. It was 
good, but definitely very indulgent and filling because of all the parmesan, so I would only recommend getting it if you 
know you can handle the richness. I chose 
the Spaghetti Neri, which also came with the lobster bisque sauce but had sauteed 
octopus. I loved it; the octopus was cooked 
to just the right tenderness and was the perfect balance to the lobster. 
There were other pretty inventive dishes 
on the menu, like gnocchi with brown butter and beef bone marrow or ravioli filled with ricotta and shrimp, but there 
were also classics like ragu or carbonara. 
Monello also offers “fai da te” for certain items, where you can customize your dish to the type of pasta and the type of sauce 
you’ d like. No matter what you’re getting, 
all the pasta is housemade and organic. 
Everyone at my table got pasta, but 
Monello also has pizza options if you’re feeling like a different type of carb, and a range of appetizers if you’re hungry 
enough. 
The Ambiance
Monello does not resemble your typical 
Italian restaurant. They’ve ditched the white tablecloths for sturdy wood and marble tables and there are few decor 
pieces, though I was facing a picture of the Milan Cathedral for the duration of my meal. The concrete, the pipes running 
along the ceiling, and the full wall of windows made it feel sort of industrial, 
which I thought was kind of a weird vibe. 
I missed the homey feeling you get when 
you walk into an Italian restaurant, and it 
felt like Monello was trying too hard to be casual and chic at the same time. 
The Price
For the quality of the food, I thought 
the prices were reasonable. Pasta dishes 
ranged from $19-26, with the most 
expensive options being seafood and the cheese wheel. Drinks are a bit pricier at 
$11-13 for a glass of wine, but that’s to be 
expected in downtown. It’s definitely not a place you can go to often on a college student’s budget, but it’s a nice choice for 
a date, dinner with visiting family, or a 
special occasion. 
Why You Should Go
I’ d come back for the food, since there were other things on the menu that 
seemed interesting. If you’re 21 or older, 
I’ d recommend trying the Happy Hour, which takes place from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The drinks won’t be cheaper, but their 
Milanese aperitivo features a rotating menu of complimentary small bites, so you can enjoy your vermouth and get a little 
taste of Monello along with it. 
Bite-Size Reviews is a short column 
featuring local eateries all over San Diego.Bite-Size Reviews Monello
with Annika Olives, Lifestyle Staff Writer
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  O C T O B E R  1 4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
2 FREE LYFT RIDES
So What’s the T ea (and Coffee)?
by Natalie Duprey, Lifestyle Staff WriterCaffeine Cravings: A Guide to the best Coffee and T ea in San Diego
On Campus
Roger’s
While this might be an unpopular opinion I think the 
drinks from Roger’s are actually pretty good. When I lived 
on campus, it was the perfect mix of convenience and caffeine. There were plenty of good options in the fridge 
and pantry if you needed a snack. They also have more 
baristas working, so the order was usually done pretty quickly. I know the other markets on campus offer the same drinks, but there’s something about the student workers at 
rogers that gives it a seal of approval for me (especially the 
worker that gives everyone nicknames!)
Art of Espresso
While Roger’s is good if you have left over dining dollars, 
Art of Espresso is the place to go for the best quality 
coffee and experience. The reason it’s my favorite is that 
it’s cheaper and I love the outdoor area by Mandeville. It’s the perfect place to sit outside, soak up the sun, and enjoy an iced chai latte, one of my favorite drinks. Plus, you can 
watch all the cool art by the graffiti park change throughout 
the year.
Off Campus
Refill
This has to be one of my favorite places to get away 
from campus to fuel my caffeine addiction. Its layout is so aesthetically pleasing and I could die for the caramel macchiato. They also serve crepes and omelets, so if you 
need a new place to try for Sunday brunch, this is the place 
to go. Like all good coffee shops, it’s usually pretty crowded, but between the amazing smell of coffee and the Instagram-worthy meals, it’s worth the wait. They also have a happy 
hour and game nights that I have yet to try, but I’ve seen 
plenty of good reviews about them as well. Refill is a bit far from campus, but I assure you it’s worth the trek to North 
Park.
Franchise
Peet’s
I have had many long days at Peet’s because it is the true 
neutral of coffee shops. It has a wholesome yet soothing 
atmosphere, with a smell of coffee that just hits differently. The baristas are also the most relaxed and always seem 
genuinely happy to see you if you frequent there as much 
as I do. Peets is simple yet satisfying for the average coffee lover.
Dunkin’ Donuts
I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again, but the West Coast is 
sleeping on Dunkin’ Donuts! Not only do they have amazing 
drinks (if you haven’t tried a Coolata, you’re missing out on 
so much frozen sugary joy), they have so many fun flavors of doughnuts. I love the classics like Boston Creme and 
Strawberry sprinkle but they also have some bold flavors, 
too. Since it’s Spooky Season (formerly known as Fall) they have their limited edition pumpkin flavored doughnuts. During other holidays such as Valentine’s Day, they sell pink 
heart-shaped doughnuts! If you are not a doughnut person, 
don’t fret because they also have a full breakfast menu with 
everything from croissants to hashbrowns. Whenever I want to be reminded of home or just want to look at the 
magical rows of doughnuts, I always get Dunkin’ Donuts.
Where Should I Go next?
I still have a year to go until I graduate, so I’m still 
looking for new coffee shops to try and would love to get suggestions. I already have my eyes on Better Buzz and 
Lestat’s. But until my next coffee run I think I will save my money and get energy the old fashioned way by sleeping in 
next weekend.Like the average college 
student, I am running on 
50 percent motivation and 50 percent caffeine. While I can’t necessarily help you find motivation, I can recommend some of my favorite places to get your caffeine fix in San Diego.CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
ALL THINGS TRITONS FOR TRITONSOCTOBER 18-20
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS -CULTURAL 
CENTER
An informal drop- in group designed for Asian 
American students to discuss topics relevant to 
their experiences in a supportive environment. 
Bring your lunch and join us!. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408
12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM - GSA GRAD LOUNGE, ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
A supportive drop-in space for graduate and 
professional school students seeking strategies or resilience, perseverance, and flourishing. Common themes include: stress management, sustaining motivation, recovering from set-backs, work/life balance, and navigating interpersonal challenges(personal and professional). Contact: Dr. Miriam Adrianowicz, Psy.D 858-534-7710 or diquach@ucsd.edu. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408
2:30pm
THE COMING OUT GROUP - THE 
WOMEN'S CENTER
The Coming Out group is a place to meet and 
gain support while discussing your sexual and/or 
gender Identities in a confidential setting. This 
group is for lesbian, gay, bisexual,transgender, straight, or questioning folks who are coming out, considering coming out or may already be out. For more info, please contact Cat Thompson at cathompson@ucsd.edu or Luis Legaspi at llegaspi@ucsd.edu . If you are an individual with a disability who requires an accommodation, please contact Maribel Gomez at 8588223493 or at mpgomez@ucsd.edu. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
3pm
FLOURISH @ UC SAN DIEGO - CAPS 
CENTRAL OFFICE, 190 GALBRAITH HALL
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well 
at UC San Diego? Dr. Julie Badaracco and a Wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, and self- compassion. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408!"#$%&%'#()*%!+ ,
(
2pm
COPING WITH STRESS - STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES, MURRAY'S 
PLACE
Learn research-backed strategies to manage 
the stress of being a student, including time management, self-compassion,conquering unhelpful thoughts, and mindfulness and relaxation.
5pm
OUTSIDE THE BOX FORUM - 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal group is a safe space for 
students, faculty, and staff of mixed/ multiracial/multiethnic and other non-dominant identities to share their experiences and discuss issues in an open and supportive, community atmosphere. This group is co-sponsored by the Cross Cultural Center. Contact Dr. Cat Thompson, Ph.D. 858-534-3987 or cathompson@ucsd.edu Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 8585349408TUE10.15
THU10.17
9am
HOMECOMING: TRITON SPIRIT RUN 
- STONEHENGE LAWN
Sprint from one signature campus landmark to 
the next in the most spirited Triton run ever! The fun will start and finish at Stonehenge. Pick up spirited swag at each stop as you build your Triton-inspired wardrobe. Then race to the finish linedecked out in your Triton blue and gold gearfor the win! Prizes will be given for individuals and teams: most spirited, fastest (first, second, third place), and social media. Participants must cross timing pads at each location to qualify for prizes. Enjoy a lively start and finish line experience, featuring a DJ, photo booth, spirit stations, and fun refreshments.$10 for students. Contact: jtgrantham@ucsd.edu 8583539754SAT10.19MON10.14
10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND - THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and 
anxiety and improve your mood. This practice 
will lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is a clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. 
All levels are welcome! Yoga Mats are provided!
11am
JOUSTING RING FUNDRAISER - 
SUNGOD LAWN
Need to relieve some stress? Is a friend getting 
on your nerves? Come participate in our jousting 
ring! Open to everyone! Bring a friend to 
compete with or come on your own and well pair 
you up Get 3 rounds for $5 Compete in a pull-up 
competition to win a t-shirt and free Jamba 
Juice
2:30pm
GAY MEN'S RELATIONSHIP FORUM 
- WOMEN'S CENTER, SMALL 
GROUP ROOM
Starting Week 2, join CAPS and LGBT Resource 
Center for conversations about our experiences 
as gay men. This forum addresses relationships, 
sexual health, community building, and more! 
Contact: Dr. Greg Koch 858-534-3585 or 
gkoch@ucsd.edu
7pm
BIRCH AQUARIUMS PERSPECTIVES 
LECTURES: BIOMIMICRY: 
INNOVATING USING NATURE - 
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS
Dimitri Deheyn, Integrative Biologist and 
Bioinspired Researcher. Over millions of years of 
evolution, organisms on earth have developed 
and perfected complex adaptations that allow 
them to survive and eventually thrive under 
specific environmental conditions. Join Dimitri 
Deheyn who will unveil how his laboratory is 
working to understand and replicate these 
highly refined biological properties for 
development of sustainable and economically 
valuable technologies.
3pm
UCDC SPRING 2020 APPLICATION 
REVIEW - RED SHOE ROOM, PC WEST
Are you interested in applying to UCDC for the 
Spring Quarter? Would you like information on internship interests and resources to improve your resume and cover letter? Come to this event to have your questions answered and learn more about the UCDC application process! UCDC is an academic program that allows students to continue their studies and gain valuable on-the-job experience. Open to all majors, Washington, DC hosts extraordinary internship opportunities in every field. Contact us at: ucdc@ucsd.edu https://aip.ucsd.edu/programs/ucdc/Contact: ucdc@ucsd.edu Website: http://aip.ucsd.edu/programs/ucdc/index.htmlFRI10.18WED10.16homecoming.ucsd.edu
2pm
TRAIN YOUR BRAIN, DE -STRESS 
WITH BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Learn how to incorporate state of the art 
technology for stress management. Come to The 
Zone for a one-on-one Biofeedback 
demonstration with one of the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators! Learn about biofeedback, deep breathing, and progressive muscle relaxation techniques that all help to reduce stress. And if you have time, get a free de-stress massage 
from the R&R Squad too! Check out The Zone 
calendar for info on this and other free wellness 
programs! Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu 858-534-9408
3pm
HOMECOMING: GAME NIGHT - 
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM AND JOHN MUIR ROOM
Are you interested in interning in Washington 
D.C. for a quarter but want to know more? Come to our Fall 2019 information session on October 9th at 4PM in the Red Shoe Room, PC West. More information for this information session can be found on the Facebook @UCSanDiegoUCDC event page. In this info session our UCDC team will tell you what the UCDC program encompasses, how you can apply, and answer any questions you may have. If you're interested, please attend! Contact: ucdc@ucsd.edu Website: https://aip.ucsd.edu/programs/ucdc/index.html
5pm
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING 
MAJOR INFO SESSION - STRUCTURAL AND MATE
Learn about the Structural Engineering major. 
Structural engineers design & analyze buildings, bridges, aircraft, ship hulls, marine structures, automobiles, & essentially any structures that carry loads to ensure their safety, serviceability, cost-efficiency, & sustainability. Choose one of four focuses: civil structures, aerospace structures, geotech, or structural health monitoring. Dept has world-class faculty with expertise in civil, mechanical, and aerospace engineering. Please RSVP: https://forms.gle/sMGuBdNfjRD3PZVo6
Contact: jmeller@ucsd.edu Website: 
https://forms.gle/sMGuBdNfjRD3PZVo6Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
OCT 14 - OCT 20
2019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
TEAMWORKCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. TSite of the Taj Mahal
5. Faux --- (blunder)8. “Edward Scissorhands” star
12. Tries for the prize
13. Exhorts
15. Malarial fever16. Start of a Yogi Berra quip19. Disco guy on “The Simpsons”
20. Hooded snake
21. Weigh heavily on
22. Jr. ’s son23. Poison ivy problem25. Darling
26. U.S. visitor since 1976
27. Part 2 of the quip
31. Once again32. Highway bailout33. Society newsmaker
34. Low point
36. Choose
38. Lacquer ingredient42. --- cit. (where cited)44. “___-la-la!”46. Puerto ---47. Part 3 of the quip52. Time of note53. Nice notion?54. Musical Tommy55. Irving or Grant56. Circus safeguard57. Blow it58. Good place to get in hot water61. End of the quip65. Debussy’s “Clair de ---”66. Silence breaker67. Became frayed68. Cartesian conjunction69. Grassy expanse70. Apt name for a guy in debt?DOWN
1. Ovid’s bird2. Kind of wrap3. Came full circle
4. Grate stuff
5. Make ready
6. Long trailer7. Nasal partition8. ‘50s sitcom staple
9. Snob
10. Discipline
11. Fashionably small13. End result14. On the agenda
17. Manhattan border river
18. City in SW England
24. Freely25. Ranch hand27. Pallid
28. Santa --- wind
29. Soft murmur
30. King of the fairies, in folklore35. Rodeo feat37. Truck scale unit39. Supplement to the main event40. Hostile, as a reception41. Turn-downs43. Officers in training45. Souped-up wheels47. Short-legged hound48. “Knight Without ---” (1937 Marlene 
Dietrich film)
49. Hen’s work50. Upgrade the machinery51. Baby’s output57. Sicilian landmark59. A Dumas60. Revival cry62. Prefix with classic63. “A Boy Named ---”64. Afternoon hourBIKES 
HARO Mirra 20” bmx freestyle bicycle/
XL frame /chro-moloy. Up for sale is 
an excellent freestyle bike which can 
easily handle; Park, Street, Track, Trails, 
and Ramp riding. I search Southern 
California for BMX bikes that I like to 
collect, and also sell. What I like about 
this bike, is that the XL frame size makes 
the bike easy to control for me (I’m 5’10” with long arms). Another feature 
is the short rear end of 14” , which makes 
manualing much easier. The balance 
point is so much more controllable with 
a shorter ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
92 Robinson SST Loop Tail BMX Bike. 
SST LOOP TAIL ‘92 Robinson Chromoly 
BMX BIKE “VINTAGE” almost like New 
Conditon good enough for collectors 
edition Must See to appreciate Pro Style 
Chromoly FRAME, Oversized Axles, Super Grip Pedals, Pro Heavy Duty 
Crank, 20” BMX Wheels, asking $ 250.00 
Cash or bank check or Paypal account 
any ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Moorized Bikes Custtomer Made $399. 
Today I’m selling MOTORIZED BIKES, these things get 150-180mis per-gallon they are easy to work on and very safe. I can build any motor any color exactly what you want ( extra cost ).( ONLY two DAYS TO BUILD )and I’m local so no driv -
ing to deep san diego just for your bike that you will have to pay 600 for, perfect 
if you just lost your license or if you 
aren’t old enough to drive, or maybe 
you just like to cruise along the beach and get a ton of complements these are totally legal, i will ride it to you within fifteen mies if you want a bike call or text me at- or email (click to respond) SORRY BUT I WILL ALSO NEED HALF 
DEPOSITED TO ….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
CARS
2012 Jeep Wrangler 4WD 2dr Sport. At Iconic Coach We Strive To Provide 
The Highest Level of Customer 
Satisfaction With a Willingness To Go 
Above & Beyond For Our Customers & 
by Offering Great Quality Vehicles. We 
Offer Easy Financing & Happily Accept 
All Trades….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2007 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 
LTZ EXT. Cab 4WD EXTENDED CAB 
Just traded!. Schedule a test drive 
today.. Low miles!. Won’t last long!. 
Amazingly well maintained. . WWW.CASASPIANAUTOMOTIVE.COM. Bad 
Credit, No Credit. We Can Finance You.. 
RARE PACKAGE..... HARD TO FIND!!!. 
OFFROAD….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
2007 Mercedes-Benz R-class R350 
Sport Utility 4-Dr Just traded!. Schedule a test drive today.. Low miles!. They 
don’t come much cleaner than this!. 
Amazingly well maintained. . WWW.
CASASPIANAUTOMOTIVE.COM. Bad Credit, No Credit. We Can Finance You.. True Head ….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS 
Supply Chain Planner at Starbucks. This job contributes to Starbucks success by 
developing tactical and strategic supply plans, and establishing inventory levels for assigned production materials or finished goods to achieve customer ser -
vice, supply chain and financial objec -
tives. Ensures that the right product is in 
the right place at….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
R&D Beverage Specialist at Starbucks. 
We are seeking someone to join one 
of the world’s most admired innovative 
companies and contribute to Starbuck’s 
vision of being a performance-driven company, through the lens of human -
ity. We are courageous in our pursuit 
of innovation to deliver products and 
experiences that win the hearts and 
minds of our customers and our baris -
tas. We are always curious and eager to 
learn and know more. We are looking 
for an engaging and energetic part -
ner….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Income Tax Analyst at Starbucks. This 
job contributes to Starbucks success 
by preparing required tax filings for a global multinational corporation and 
assisting with quarterly &amp; annual 
tax compliance processes, projects, and technology to ensure Starbucks com -
pliance with tax laws and to minimize overall tax liabilities. Models and acts ….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of page
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
NOVEMB ER 11-15,  2019andHUNGER
HOUSELE SSNESS
AWA RENESS WEEKfacebook.c om/
tritonfoodpa ntry as.uc sd.edu b asic need s.ucsd .ed u
Triton 
Timeout
The troubling 
contradiction 
of playoff emotion 
in sportsWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
When you play a team sport, 
your number one goal is to help 
your team make the playo ffs, and 
once in the playo ffs, your goal is 
to win a championship. When you win a championship, you are flooded with emotion; it’s bit-tersweet. The happiness that you 
accomplished what you set out to do with the teammates you love is exactly why you play sports. 
And the same goes for fans. 
When you’re following a team for your entire life, you can feel a very similar connection to the team and its successes and failures, es-
pecially in the playo ffs. 
For me, a hopeless Los Ange-
les Dodgers fan, the recent loss in 
Game Five of the National League Division Series to the Washington Nationals definitely left me feeling defeated and a little bit empty. 
I poured so much of my atten-
tion and energy into rooting for the team all season long, just as I have done for over 15 years, and now what do I have for the fruits of my labor and love? An empty feeling in the pit of my stomach and a few months to brood on the details of the defeat before Febru-ary rolls around and pitchers and catchers report to Spring Train-ing? At the end of it all, I find my-
self wondering: Was that all worth it? 
And imagine if I was one of the 
players, whose livelihood liter-ally depends on my performance in such games. My successes and 
failures directly correlate to the 
happiness of millions of fans, many of whom pay for a jersey with my last name prominently embossed across the upper back and pay to see me and my team-mates play — sometimes every single night we’re at home.How does one cope with that 
pressure and the emotion that surely must come with it? And is it worth it to you? If it really is just a job you do to get a salary, then would you want to be on a team 
with no playo ff aspirations just 
to keep your fans shielded from 
the possibility of a playo ff loss, or 
from a playo ff drought that has — 
in the case of many franchises — extended across generations and lifetimes? 
For me, the playo ffs are what 
sports are all about precisely be-cause they elicit so much emo-tion. I don’t garner much emotion from my day-to-day life outside my interactions with family and friends, and none of that emotion is consistently as raw as what I’ve experienced a fter playo ff losses. 
Some of my most poignant mem-ories are those involving playo ff 
sports, from Dodger wins and losses experienced with my family and friends to playo ff wins in rec-
reational league baseball with my teammates. 
Last year though, I got to expe-
rience college playo ff losses for the 
first time from the perspective of a reporter. UC San Diego playo ff 
wins and losses hit me just as hard as any I’ d experienced previously even though I’ d been at the school for less than six months at the time, especially when I saw how hard they hit the teary-eyed play-ers and coaches. 
As tough as they can be, sports 
bind people together and create commonalities and meaning out of thin air and a little bit of sweat. Isn’t that something worth feeling sad about once a year during the playoffs?
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 14, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs Chico State
vs Santa Claravs Chico Statevs Chico StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW Volleyball
M Water Polo
M Soccer
W Soccer7PM6PM
4:30PM
7PM10/1810/1810/1810/18
Tritons Explode for 5-2 Win
In their highest-scoring per-
formance of the season, UC San 
Diego women’s soccer (9–0–1, 4–0–1 in conference) defeated the California State University, Hum-boldt Lumberjacks (1–6–2, 0–4 in conference) in a 5–2 rout that saw redshirt senior midfielder Natalie Saddic notch her second two-goal match of the season. The win is 
the second-ranked Tritons’ fourth straight, keeping them undefeated on the season.
UCSD opened the scoring in 
the 10th minute with a beautiful display of teamwork. Junior mid-fielder Maddy Samilo made an 
incisive through pass to find ju-
nior midfielder Michelle Baddour 
down the right flank; Baddour 
crossed the ball to redshirt sopho-more midfielder Kameryn Hoban, who booted it into the back of the net to make it 1–0. But the Lum-berjacks countered in the 16th minute as Humboldt State’s fresh-man midfielder Kelsey Bess stole the ball from Hoban and passed to freshman forward Selena Osorio in space, who cut right and equal-ized the game at 1–1.
In the 30th minute, a colli-
sion left UCSD junior defender and midfielder Natalie Widmer 
down on the field for a couple of 
minutes with an apparent leg in-
jury. Widmer eventually had to be helped o ff the field and carted 
off. “Structurally, it looks like it’s 
OK, so we’re going to see how she feels in the morning and go from there, ” head coach Kristin Jones said post-match.
The Tritons would finally get 
that go-ahead goal in the 37th minute o ff a corner from fresh-
man midfielder Mika Celeste that was deflected to the feet of Saddic, whose shot ricocheted o ff a de-
fender into the top of the netting. 
After a relatively uneventful be-
ginning to the second half, Celeste and sophomore midfielder Emily Killeen pulled o ff a textbook one-
two pass in the 66th minute to fool the Humboldt State defend-ers, giving Celeste an open shot that she nailed, making it 3–1. “It’s good because it means they’re having fun, ” Coach Jones said 
about UCSD’s teamwork. “When 
they can play with a little more freedom, they tend to pull things out like that. ”
The final 10 minutes of the 
match saw three goals, beginning when an 80th-minute cross from UCSD sophomore defender and midfielder Ashlynn Kolarik hit 
the outstretched hand of a Hum-
boldt player, giving the Tritons a penalty kick. A fter Saddic’s first 
attempt was waved o ff by the ref-
eree, she finished the next one to 
notch her team-leading fifth goal 
this season and her second of the night. A minute later, UCSD de-fenders were caught unaware as a Lumberjack cross found Bess all alone, and her goal made it 4–2. In the 84th minute, a Tritons cross was intercepted in front of goal, but sophomore forward Marissa Ray immediately made a great tackle and finished from close 
range to up the score to 5–2.
Although the Tritons snatched 
their fourth straight home win, Humboldt State snapped a six-game shutout streak by UCSD’s redshirt senior goalkeeper Angel-ica Ramos. “I think that was the most mistakes we’ll make [on] the defensive half all season, ” Coach Jones said. “But when those mis-
takes came, we ha[ve] done well 
enough [on] the o ffensive half to 
give ourselves a bit of a cushion, so there was never really a need to panic. ” 
UCSD remains second in the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association behind California State University, Sonoma (5–0) in conference play. The Tritons 
have three more home games on the schedule before they go to Sonoma State on Oct. 25 in what could be a match with CCAA tournament implications. 
By Praveen Nair
Staff Writer
Pra veen  Nair  prNair@ucsd,edu
This week, the UC San Diego 
women’s volleyball team lost 3–0 in a 
challenging match against California State University, San Bernardino. After getting steamrolled 12–25 in 
the first set, the Tritons demonstrated 
their mettle by grinding through a long second set before losing 26–28. But despite the close score in the second, UCSD came no closer in the third, dropping the final set 20–25.
Head coach Ricci Luyties came out 
of the game disappointed with the result, but not defeated. “We’ve had a couple of weeks that have been up and down, ” he said.“We knew it was 
going to be a lot of tough games in 
a row so I was hoping to win all of them, but we knew that they were going to be tough to win. ” 
Luyties is experimenting with 
new lineups and making use of the entire roster. Looking to next week, Luyties commented, “We’ve switched around the lineup quite a bit, so there’s always possibilities for other things to happen. ” Junior Emily Hubbard seems to have supplanted senior Alyson Penrose as the team’s starting libero. At the starting libero position, Hubbard led the team with 13 digs. Penrose was still rotated into the game to serve. Luyties also made a point to involve the team’s younger talent for significant portions of the game. Freshman outside hitters Sarah Rieble, Marin Willick, and Josie Collier all recorded time in the loss. The three freshmen combined for 31 
attempts, 8 errors, and 5 kills.
Despite the loss, the Tritons still 
have a path, albeit challenging, to a playo ff bid. To qualify for the 
postseason, UCSD would need to place at least second in the California Collegiate Athletic Association South Division. With the most recent loss against San Bernardino State, UCSD drops to fourth place in CCAA South Division, but the Tritons are not far behind the three teams ahead of 
them. 
It is unlikely the Tritons make a 
run for the top spot in the division 
— San Bernardino State is in solid possession of first place with an 
undefeated 16–0 record (9–0 in conference play) — but UCSD does have a shot to get into second and making it into the postseason. 
Third place California State 
University, San Marcos is tied with UCSD in conference play at 5–4. With one more conference win, the Tritons would find themselves in third 
place. California State University, Los Angeles, who the Tritons were swept by earlier this week, currently sit in second place. Right now, UCSD (5–4) only trails CSULA (6–1) by one conference win. 
With only eight regular-season 
games left, the final leg of the season 
is incredibly important if the Tritons want to contend for a championship. In the final four games of the season, 
the Tritons will play conference rivals San Marcos State twice and CSULA once and jockey for a playo ff spot. 
Those late-season matchups could 
decide who makes it into the playo ffs 
and who ends their 2019 season early.
Next week, the Tritons face o ff 
against California State University, Chico and California State University, Stanislaus in back-to-back home games for homecoming weekend on 
Friday and Saturday night. 
Women’s Volleyball Falls at Home 
Against Top-seeded San BernadinoUC San Diego Women’s 
Soccer kicks off the season, 
continuing with their four-
game streak. 
By Wesley Xiao
Senior Staff Writer
Wesley Xiao wex057@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS