At least 20 student shuttle drivers have either 
been paid below their agreed wages or have 
not been paid at all, according to multiple 
sources. A number of discrepancies and mistakes in the 
payroll for student drivers over the fall quarter has led 
to an internal review from UC San Diego transportation 
services. 
In December, the UCSD Guardian received a letter 
that denounces these mistakes as well as the inaction of staff members to resolve the issues. 
The current wage rate for some shuttle drivers is 
$16 per hour. Some students who were hired after the wage increase have been paid only $15 per hour. Jasmin 
Moran, who was listed in the letter, was paid below 
her $16 per hour pay grade for the entirety of the fall quarter.
According to the letter, driver Jay Noonan was hired 
in October and, as of the drafting of this article, has still not yet received a single paycheck for their work. 
Noonan estimates they are owed at least $1,000 for their 
work.
“I had to borrow money to be able to afford my rent 
because I still have not seen a single dime, ” Noonan told the UCSD Guardian.
Noonan stressed that the immediate managers were 
making efforts toward resolving the issue.
“My managers have been doing everything they can, 
but payroll has been less than cooperative, ” Noonan told 
the Guardian.
Shuttle Dispatcher Francesca Hummler was paid 
$11.85 per hour for over a year when the correct rate was $15 per hour. The letter claims the department 
owed her over $3000, “which they deposited over two pay periods without explanation, causing her to believe she had accidentally been overpaid. ”
Hannah Gillespie was paid $64 for 50.5 hours of 
work, amounting to $700 owed to her. The letter claims she has still not yet received this payment.
“[The] disregard for putting in the correct job code 
into the payroll database has affected too many of our staff, ” the letter reads. “We are students who need to pay rent, put gas in our cars, and buy groceries. ”
In response to these issues, Director of Transportation 
Josh Kavanagh sent out an email to the 20 employees addressing their concerns. In it, he wrote that the 
problem stems from a number of contributing factors, 
mainly citing hiring and promoting people around the 
time of wage raises.
“When a student has appointments in multiple 
departments, one department’s timekeeper is primary and makes the submission to payroll, ” Kavanagh said 
in an email to the Guardian. “Errors can occur when a student stops working in the primary department 
without the secondary department being informed so 
that they can move into the primary role. ”
“Each employee has a specific [timekeeper] assigned 
to them to ensure that they get paid, ” Francesca Hummler said. “I’m not sure how the positions differ, but I know that our managers directly approve our time 
cards, and then there is another person that is assigned 
to us to ensure that we get paid. ”
Kavanagh wrote that the department will be 
conducting what he called “regular auditing. ”
“We conduct self-audits when we have reason to 
believe something may be incorrect, ” Kavanagh said. 
“Going forward, we will be conducting periodic audits 
of student pay rates as a routine function, even if there is not an indication that something may be incorrect. ” 
The UC Board of Regents is likely 
to eliminate the position of student 
advisor by allowing the pilot program for the position to sunset at the end of 
the current term, a letter from the Chair 
of the Governance and Compensation Committee Richard Sherman sent on Dec. 17 indicates. The letter was distributed to all UC student media 
by current Student Advisor Edward Huang, who objects to the decision.
The position of student advisor 
was first established in January 2016 as a means of providing input from 
the student group not represented by the student regent, meaning that if the student regent is a graduate 
student, the student advisor will be an 
undergraduate and vice versa. While the student advisor has no vote on the Board, they are permitted to attend all open sessions of the Board and its committees and serve as an advisor to the committees. 
At the time the position was 
founded, it was determined that there would be a two-year pilot program for the position, and if the Regents did not act affirmatively to continue the 
program at the end of the pilot period, 
the program would sunset.
In addition to the student advisor, 
the Board hears from the student VOLUME 52, ISSUE 11  MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 7, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Donor Audrey Geisel 
Passes Away at Age 97
The philanthropist and wife of Dr. 
Seuss was a benefactor of the school.
CAMPUS
BY  Tyler Faurot
News Editor
UC Regents Leadership Likely to Remove Student Advisor Position
Mac DeMarco performs with his guitar at  Music Box.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by Ramona RosasAudrey Geisel, a notable 
philanthropist supporting literacy, 
education and the arts, widow to 
Theodor Seuss Geisel (Dr. Seuss) and 
major benefactor to the Geisel Library, passed away in her La Jolla home on Dec. 19. Geisel has donated more than 
12,000 pieces of Dr. Seuss’ works and 
creative items to the library’s collection, as well as tens of millions of dollars to institutions across campus.
“She passionately believed in our 
mission and vision, and consistently supported us, through thick and thin, ” University Librarian Erik Mitchell said of her passing. “ Although we will miss 
her greatly, we are extremely fortunate 
that her legacy will live on in Geisel Library and through the phenomenal Dr. Seuss Collection housed in our Special Collections. ” 
Following the death of her husband 
in 1991, Geisel became the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises and the Dr. Seuss Foundation, presiding over his literary 
estate. In 1995, she donated $20 million 
to the school’s central library, which was subsequently renamed in her and her late husband’s honor.
In addition, the main floor coffee 
shop was named “ Audrey’s” after her substantial donation toward library renovations. 
Since then, she has donated at least 
another $12 million dollars to the library alone, as well as to other projects 
and developments across campus. 
Geisel also served on a number of Library boards and councils, as well as the Board of Visitors of the School of 
Medicine, the UC San Diego Moores 
Cancer Center Board, and was also a member of the university’s Chancellor’s Associates.
Chancellor Khosla awarded 
Geisel in 2010 with the Chancellor’s Medal as part of the university’s 50th Anniversary in recognition of her charitable donations and involvements.
“ Audrey Geisel was a steadfast and 
beloved friend of the campus who will be truly missed, ” Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla said in the school’s press release. “UC San Diego would not 
be the same top-ranked research 
institution it is today without her enthusiastic generosity and vast university involvement. ”
As family friend Jeanne Jones 
told The San Diego Union-Tribune, “Those things were important to her because she knew they would have 
been important to him. ”
In addition to her charitable works, 
Geisel was also served as producer 
for such recent films as “The Lorax, ” “Horton Hears a Who, ” and the 
live action “How the Grinch Stole 
Christmas. ” She also is famously credited as encouraging Dr. Seuss’s more socially commentative works 
such as “The Lorax. ”
Audrey Geisel is survived by her 
two daughters, Lark Grey Dimond-
Cates and Leagrey Dimond.By Tyler FAURot   news EditorCAMPUS
Payroll Errors Leave Student Drivers Without Proper PayPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
The UC San Diego 
pep band o ffers a 
fun and ful filling 
outlet for UCSD’s 
many passionate 
musicians.
STUART   ART  COLLECTION
POSTHUMOUS   RELEASE  NO  STUDENT  INPUT
PROFITEERING  OR  AN  HOMAGE?Opinion,  Page   4
A&E,   Page 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE “Airport security may 
cost billions of dollars 
annually, but if American 
citizens value the safety 
and security that such 
security provides, then 
the immense cost could 
be justified. The issue 
is that many airport 
security measures have 
not been effective at 
making air travel safer.”MONDAY
 H 63 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 63 L 52
TUESDAY
H 68 L 52
THURSDAY
H 62 L 53
TSA..................................4
AQUAMAN.......................8
MAJOR REGRET............10
RESOLUTIONS...............11
M. BASKETBALL............15COMMUNITY
Suzanne Golshanara
 PAGE 4The decision to eliminate the position was supported by other student representatives to the Board of Regents.
BY  Lauren Holt
Managing Editor
See REGENTS,  page 3See WAGES , page 3PEP BAND:
A FAMILY OF MUSIC
Features, page 6
tyler faurot  news@ucsdguardian.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
AT THE BOOKSTORE By Michi Sora
Wednesday, Dece mbe r 19
9:28 p.m. Assist Other AgencySan Diego Police on call for possible prowler Information Only
Thursday, December 20
11:17 p.m. Noise DisturbanceComplaint regarding construction noise Information Only11:28 p.m. Noise DisturbanceLoud talking and banging in Mesa Nueva Building A
Will Cooperate
Friday, December 21
1:51 a.m. Welfare CheckVia 911, ICU patient with high blood pressure stating he isn’t being treated and is being held against his will in Thornton Pavillion Referred To Other UCSD Department
4:18 p.m. Battery
Patient at UCSD Medical Center Hillcrest stated a female nurse smacked her on her buttocks, reporting party declined to press charges Hospital Security Report Taken
Sunday, December 23
1:42 p.m. Trespass
Alumni affiliate showing his family around engineering building, locked himself on rooftop with kids Service Provided
Monday, December 24
4:03 p.m. InjuryJuvenile male hit in head by rock at 
La Jolla Cove, bleeding, no loss of 
consciousness Referred To Other Agency ‐ San Diego Fire Department8:04 p.m. Welfare CheckReporting party hasn’t heard from son since Thanksgiving Checks OK
10:10 p.m. Drunk Driving
Report of drunk driver, last seen driving toward freeway Referred To Other Agency ‐ San 
Diego Police Department
Tuesday, December 25
9:13 p.m. UC Policy ViolationSmoking contact Central Mesa 
Apartments
Verbal Warning Issued11:40 p.m. Citizen ContactVerbal argument between couple Mesa Nueva Building CField Interview
Wednesday, Dece mbe r 26
1:00 p.m. Grand Theft
Unknown suspects entered an 
unlocked fenced construction site near Library W alk and stole equipment, loss $2,000.00 Report Taken2:30 p.m. Grand TheftVehicle’s generator was stolen in Lower Marshall, loss $2,500.00 Report Taken
5:53 p.m. Injury
Male that was attempting to slide down a staircase rail near Rupertus W ay fell approximately 12 feet Transported to Hospital
Thursday, December 27
7:46 p.m. BatteryPatient complaint regarding nurse in 
Hillcrest Medical Center being too 
rough while cleaning patient’s private parts Hospital Security Report Taken
Friday, December 28
11:00 a.m. Petty TheftUnknown suspect stole a wallet and 
attempted to use the victim’s credit 
card, loss $30.03Report Taken12:00 p.m. Medical AidAdult female in surgery at Shiley Eye Center went into cardiac arrest Transported to Hospital2:27 p.m. Disturbance2 males trick skating at loading dock 
near Oceanview Terrace
Gone On Arrival7:20 p.m. Recovered Stolen VehicleLot 010Report Taken
Saturday, December 29
12:04 a.m. Suspicious Person3 males trick skating with an electric 
skateboard near Stephen Birch 
AquariumGone on Arrival2:50 p.m. Disturbance6 males trick skateboarding near Muir CommonsVerbal Warning Issued7:00 p.m. TheftPatient’s boyfriend stole her purse at 
SCVC Building
Hospital Security Report Taken
Sunday, December 30
12:31 a.m. Welfare CheckTransient walking in the middle of the road near Voigt DriveService Provided2:07 p.m. Psych Subject
Subject having suicidal thoughts
Transported to HospitalMonday, December 3111:22 a.m. Gas/Water/Sewer LeakPossible water main break on Voigt DriveReferred to other UCSD Department
12:05 p.m. Domestic Violence
Verbal argument between couple at Brennan HallReport Taken1:08 p.m. Disturbance 4 males doing tricks on scooters near Price CenterVerbal Warning Issued
Tuesday, January 1
12:12 a.m. DisturbanceGroup setting off fireworks at Lot 704Gone on arrival6:04 p.m. UC Policy ViolationSubject vaping in the La Jolla del Sol ApartmentsService Provided11:53 p.m. Noise Disturbance
Reporting party advised someone is 
doing laundry and it is extremely loud at La Jolla del Sol ApartmentQuiet On Arrival
Wednesday, Januar y 3
12:02 p.m. Welfare CheckPer Custodians, unknown subject in Central Mesa Apartment 
restroom for last two hours
Unable to Locate12:47 p.m. FireRV fire at Gliderport, San Diego 
Police already enroute Information Only
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
We’re sodomites, mother.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Richard Lu
Jade  Knows His Gun-Wong
Madeline Park
Chloe Esser
Daisy Scott
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Co-Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
@ucsdguardianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
In addition, the email promised 
other process improvements, such 
as a “formal tracking system for all 
personnel actions between when the file is submitted for raises and 
the implementation date, along with 
opening up new recruitments at the future wage earlier so that pay rates don’t need to be changed for new hires. ”
Kavanagh also wrote that the 
timekeepers, or the people who make sure time cards are complete and 
accurate, will notify employees on 
each payday to review their checks and report any discrepancies to them immediately. He wrote that he will personally oversee the new changes in 
their processes as well as the amending 
of the issues.
“I thought it was nice that they 
were acknowledging it, ” Noonan said of Kavanagh’s email. “I wish there was a more specific goal about when we’ll be getting paid. ”
The public letter concludes, 
“We deserve to be rewarded for our work with pay increases for staying with the department for much of 
our undergraduate careers and with 
being paid the correct amount. If the department fails to realize our value as workers and does not rectify these grievances, we will be forced to take 
more drastic action. ”regent, student regent-designate, 
Student Observers to standing committees, and student advocates to the Regents, who are allowed to speak 
with the Regents in between meetings 
and at lunch, known as StARs. 
Sherman did not explicitly state 
his rationale for recommending the program sunset, just noting that it was 
“based on [consultation with student 
leadership] and an analysis of the goals and outcomes of the program. ”
According to Sherman’s letter, 
Student Regent Devon Graves, a graduate student from UCLA, collected input from the student leadership of the UC Student Association, UC Graduate and Professional Council, and the 
Council of President on whether to 
extend the student advisor position during discussions about the selection of the student regent. The organizations 
expressed that they believed the StAR 
and Student Observer programs to be more effective because they interact more directly with the Regents and offer more variance in perspectives.
Graves released a statement on Dec. 
23 elaborating on his recommendation for the elimination of the student advisor position, citing essentially the 
same reasons as Sherman.
“Based on discussions with student associations and an analysis of the pilot program conducted
by the Regents’ Office, it became 
clear that the student advisor position 
is not the most effective channel for 
amplifying the student voice, ” Graves 
wrote.
Graves additionally explained that 
he believes the student advisor does 
not have the support and resources 
needed to be an effective member of 
the Board because the student advisor 
does not receive an office, tuition 
waiver, or assistance from the Regents’ staff. He also justified his decision by noting a general lack of interest in the 
position: 19-26 students applied for 
the student advisor position during its two-year pilot while 40-50 students applied to be the student regent during that time.
In his email to UC student media, 
Huang expressed displeasure with the suggestion by Graves and UCSA to terminate the student advisor position 
at the end of his term, writing that 
they “do not seem willing to fight for student membership on the Board. ” 
Huang also made it clear that 
he opposes the recommendation 
altogether.
“Eliminating the Student Advisor 
position strips away essential student representation at the highest level of UC governance and rejects years of 
hard-fought work to bring the student voice into university governance, ” Huang said.
Huang informed the UCSD 
Guardian via email that he was not made aware that input was being collected regarding the continuation 
of his program at the time it occurred, 
which was likely September, and 
that while he was informed of the 
recommendation to sunset the 
program, he was never sent the letter from Sherman directly. 
Huang noted that once the program 
sunsets, there will be no undergraduate representative on the Board as next year’s student regent is a graduate student. 
“The existence of the Student 
Advisor position guarantees that there are always both undergraduate and graduate members on the Board and that students of differing backgrounds 
are present, ” Huang stated in an email 
to the UCSD Guardian. “Removing the Student Advisor position means that the diversification of student representation is no longer guaranteed 
on the Board. ”
Although, according to Sherman’s 
letter, the student organizations that Graves consulted in evaluating the continuation of the student advisor 
program supposedly claimed that the StAR and Student Observer programs “provide students with more direct 
engagement with members of the 
Board, ” Huang appears to disagree with this notion.
“The Student Regent, Regent-
Designate, and Advisor have much greater access than the other positions 
at the Regents meetings, ” Huang wrote 
to the Guardian. “They can partake in 
discussion and deliberation on issues at the meeting. Outside of the Regents meetings, they also have access to 
Regents dinners, Regents materials, 
individual Regents, and other UC staff. The other positions are very restricted in their involvement and speaking privileges at Regents meetings and do 
not have the same level of access to the 
UC and its decision-makers outside the meetings. ”
According to Graves, other student 
representation on the Board was strengthened in order to compensate for the loss of the student advisor position.
“I have worked with student 
leadership to increase the number of student advocates to the Regents, and worked to secure time on the agenda for the UCGPC president to 
present before the Board of Regents, 
similar to the UCSA president, ” Graves said in his statement. “ Additionally, I requested to increase the committee 
observer positions to add one more 
observer for the new Regents’ Special Committee on Basic Needs. ”
Graves also requested the positions 
under the StAR and Student Observer programs remain filled at all times, 
which has not previously been the 
case.
According to Huang, however, 
“if the [StAR and Student Observer] 
positions need to be strengthened, then 
that can be done without dropping the 
Student Advisor position. ”
When asked by the Guardian if 
there is any consideration of a future, similar student advisor position that 
addresses the issues he highlighted, 
Graves responded that for right now, he will be “continuing to strengthen the StAR and committee observer 
positions. ” 
The Current Student Advisor Has Been V ery Outspoken in His Opposition to the Recommendation
Transportation Ser vices Has Acknowledged the Mistakes and Plans to Conduct an Inter nal Audit▶ REGENTS , from page 1
▶ WAGES , from page 1Lauren Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
Tyler Faurot  news@ucsdguardian.edu
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
Transportation and Security Administration workers 
have been working without pay for over two weeks because 
of the government shutdown, greatly straining airport security services around the holiday season. The current dysfunctional state of America’s airport security may be caused by the government shutdown, but there are many other critical issues with the TSA that need to be reformed. 
America’s airport security protocols are based less off of 
what is proven to be necessary and effective at preventing terrorist attacks and more off of the paranoia proceeding 9/11. The ostensible goal of America’s stringent airport security measures is to protect the country from potential airborne terrorist attacks. The reality is that not only does airport security fail to protect the American public, but it is also cumbersome, inconvenient, and costly. 
Airport security may cost billions of dollars annually, but 
if American citizens value the safety and security that such security provides, then the immense cost could be justified. The issue is that many airport security measures have not been effective at making air travel safer. In fact, in a test conducted by Homeland Security in 2015 where officials 
attempted to sneak guns and bombs through security 
checkpoints, these officials were successful in 67 out of their 70 attempts. As can be seen by its 95-percent rate of failure, the Transportation and Security Administration and its procedures are hardly monitored, leading to serious concerns with the department’s performance. 
Bans on passengers checking in liquids of over 3.4 ounces 
have been found to be ineffective, and have accordingly been scaled back in the European Union. Meanwhile, the United States is heading in the other direction and asking passengers to also remove any snacks they may have from their bags during the screening process. The bottom line is that the measures implemented to protect airline passengers have not been proven to be effective. Whether it be taking shoes off, limiting liquids, or removing jackets, 
security measures should not have to be blindly accepted 
as law without the government providing any proof that these measures do indeed work. Unfortunately, such proof is not likely to be provided since the TSA is responsible for regulating itself during the screening process. 
Aside from whether or not airport security actually prevents terrorist attacks, this security has immense costs, bringing up the question of how much saving a life is worth. While it is a highly contentious subject, Stanford economists found that an additional year of life is typically valued at $129,000. Research done by W. Kip Viscusi found the value of a human life to be approximately $7 million. In the United States, federal government agencies value saved 
lives at $1 million to $10 million. An Australian study 
found that the Federal Air Marshal Service protocols cost $180 million for every life saved, which is significantly larger than the U.S. government’s $1 million to $10 million cost-benefit ratio for saving a life. On the other hand, the study argued that hardening cockpit doors was a cost-effective security protocol since it cost $800,000 per every life saved, which is well below the government threshold. 
The government does not have unlimited sources of 
funding, so it is important to use its funds to help save the greatest number of lives possible. The United States’ current airport security measures are far too costly and in need of a major restructuring. The TSA has proven to be unaccountable with respect to the effectiveness of its 
protocols, which fail to meet the federal government’s cost-
benefit ratio for saving lives. There should undoubtedly be airport security measures implemented to protect airline travelers, but to what extent and at what cost these measures come should certainly be a matter of heavy consideration and analysis.Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
When the agreement for the Stuart Art Collection was first formalized in 
1982, it promised to be a sculpture garden of “real vision” with “fresh and solid 
thinking behind it.” Standing in front of the plain water fountain that comprises 
the entirety of “Untitled” (1991) by Michael Asher, the eleventh stop on my 
self-led walking tour of the Stuart Art Collection, it became overwhelming clear 
to me that for the last three decades, the students of UC San Diego have been 
largely absent from this “vision” and this “thinking” and from our campus art in 
general. The Stuart Art Collection has removed students from consideration in 
selecting and presenting its pieces, making it inaccessible. In failing to provide 
public art that is actually intended to appeal to and represent students, the UCSD 
administration has taken an approach to campus art that is anti-student. 
The public art positioned in UCSD has always been visually disappointing. 
On a campus with architecture that seems limited to unattractive rectangles and 
a color palette so dominated by gray, white, and tan that it encompasses even 
the plants, the Stuart Art Collection does little to compensate for this lack of 
vibrancy and color. I might be alone with this particular complaint, but the fact of the matter is that the Stuart Art Collection does not resonate with students 
in general. Pieces like “Sun God,” “Fallen Star,” and the neon “Virtues and 
Vices” are widely adored, but the consensus seems to be that much of the other 
sculptures are either incomprehensible or overlooked as part of the Stuart Art 
Collection entirely. 
When “What Hath God Wrought?,” the new 195-foot pole that blinks Morse 
Code, was first erected, a student called campus police to report it as someone sending out an SOS signal. Students are regularly seen sitting on top of the row 
of limestone blocks next to Marshall Field that is “UNDA” like it’s a bench. Tour 
guides use the giraffe catchers myth when presenting “Two Running Violet V Forms,” the large blue fences outside the Faculty Club, instead of even attempting 
to explain it as art. Unrecognizable as sculptures and difficult to understand, there 
is a clear disconnect between students and the Stuart Art Collection as a whole.
The Stuart Art Collection also makes no attempt to improve the accessibility 
of its pieces for students. On its website, the Stuart Art Collection offers detailed explanations of the artists’ intentions and meanings for the pieces, but it does not make this information available at the site of each sculpture, which could easily 
be done with a plaque as is typical of museums. Instead, it keeps students in the 
dark, leaving them to view “Untitled” as the only free-standing drinking fountain 
on campus rather than the ironic monument of administrative environments it’s 
apparently meant to be. 
For all the fuss the university makes about hosting the Stuart Art Collection on 
our campus, it has failed to provide students with an array of art that they actually 
understand and appreciate. Part of the disconnect is that the collection seems 
to favor sculptures that blend into the landscape, like the “Something Pacific” 
scattering of TVs outside Solis Hall, or opts for obscure pieces over more readily 
intelligible ones. However, the ultimate culprit is that the administrators behind 
the Stuart Art Collection do not actually factor student input into the art selection 
process and instead impose their high art standards.
The Stuart Art Collection is very transparent about how pieces are chosen 
for inclusion: Director Mary Beebe reaches out to artists that she believes could offer valuable additions, and then their proposals are reviewed by the Stuart Art 
Collection Advisory Board and ultimately sent to the chancellor for approval. 
At no point are students consulted, and students are not considered as potential 
artists for the collection.
Of the nine members of the Advisory Board, UCSD Professor of Visual Arts 
Kim MacConnel is the only representative actually from this university — the 
rest of the board is dominated by former and current museum art directors and 
art officials from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Yale University. 
Given that the Advisory Board is essentially an assembly of experts who do not 
regularly interact with the collection, its neglect of student input and its ivory tower nature are unsurprising. 
Even the description of the Stuart Art Collection on its own website does not 
make a single mention of the students, instead highlighting the notoriety of its 
artists and its innovation. 
Although the disregard of students by the Stuart Art Collection officials is By: Lauren Holt  //  Managing EditorThe UC San Diego Administration’s 
Approach to Campus Art Is Anti-Student
Suzanne  Golshanara   smgolsha@ucsd.eduDoes Airport Security Save Lives 
or Cost Them?
By: Suzanne Golshanara // Senior Sta ff WriterSee ART, page 5
Airport security may cost 
billions of dollars annually, 
but if American citizens value 
the safety and security that 
such security provides, then the 
immense cost could be justified. 
The issue is that many airport 
security measures have not been 
effective at making air travel 
safer.
“
“
“
“The UCSD administration deprives students of public art that truly represents and resonates with them. In only 
featuring the Stuart Art Collection, the UCSD administration limits campus art to pieces for which students are 
offered no consideration and that are conceptually inaccessible to them.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
we want to 
hear it.
Got letters ?
email us at 
opinion@ucsdguardian
we publish  them .submit  your op-eds at 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSAY?got something 
to
concerning, art should not pander 
to its audience. If the Stuart Art Collection were only one of many other sources of public art at UCSD, 
it would be much less of a problem 
with the inability of many of its pieces 
to appeal to students. However, the issue, and the reason why the administration as anti-student on 
art, is that the university makes no 
attempt to provide art that is actually intended to represent students or 
even to make the art comprehensible to the students who share its space. 
The university administration 
relies almost entirely on the Stuart 
Art Collection to provide the 
campus with public art. Despite being in a position to supplement 
the Stuart Art Collection with murals 
and other forms of art directed at highlighting the student experience, 
the administration has not done so. Additionally equipped with the 
resources to commission student 
work so that student talent is visible 
in our campus art, the administration offers no such opportunities. 
In only offering the Stuart Art 
Collection, the administration has 
failed to make space for students in 
campus art, both in depicting our diverse interests and backgrounds in the art itself and in the process of 
creating art for the campus. Pieces 
like the “Chicano Legacy 40 Anos” mosaic or upcoming murals in Earl 
Warren College and John Muir College that do seek to do this are 
primarily the work of the colleges 
and other campus organizations. 
In addition to this inaction, the 
administration has also obstructed 
the efforts of other entities to 
diversify our public art and include 
students. In 2016, the University Art Gallery, which showcased student 
art, was shut down over the protests of the visual arts department and 
will be replaced with a classroom. 
In 2011, the students of Movimiento 
Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán had to push to make the “Chicano Legacy” mosaic a permanent fixture in the 
wake of the Compton Cookout racial 
tensions even though it had already 
been well-received as a temporary piece. 
The administration has the 
capability to ensure students have art 
that they enjoy viewing and connect with, but it doesn’t. Instead, they 
have practically granted a monopoly on campus art to a a council of distant 
academics and a single university 
employee and made no independent effort to include those who actually 
spend their lives on this campus. The administration deprives students of 
art specifically for us and by us, and 
that’s anti-student.
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu  ▶ ART, from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
MADELINE PARK & JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
On the sidelines of any UC San Diego basketball or volleyball 
game, you can find members of the UCSD pep band, cheering 
as loudly as they can, stomping their feet, and playing their 
hearts out on their various instruments. Their spirit and vigor make 
any competitive-sport environment more exciting and their blaring 
renditions of pop songs and fight songs reverberate off the walls of the 
venues they play in.
The simple truth is that the pep band exists for the sake of fun — to 
spread it, share it, experience it with each other, and to create it for those who come and listen. The band doesn’t offer any class credit and 
enforces no strict time commitment. The musicians are there purely 
because they enjoy both the music and each other’s company.
Sixth College junior Paul Wilson, majoring in math and computer 
science, is the assistant manager and plays the piccolo in the pep band. An unusual choice 
of instrument, some might say, 
but Wilson liked the pitch of the piccolo, which is even higher 
than that of a flute. He was head 
drum major in his high school’s marching band and stumbled 
upon a pep band rehearsal 
during Week 0 of his freshman year. 
“Week 0 of freshman year, I 
was just trying to find friends. I went to RIMAC to play ping-pong with my roommate. We heard music, 
and me being a band geek, I had to go! It was my people!” Wilson said. 
“They ended up being on the fourth floor of RIMAC. No announcements had been made for freshmen to come; I just happened to find them. ”
Encouraged by a friend, he decided to join, and he hasn’t regretted 
it since. Other students like Wilson had assumed their musical careers were over when they graduated from high school and came to UCSD. 
Kyle Pineda, a senior from Sixth College majoring in biochemistry and 
cell biology is one of the head conductors of the pep band, but before joining his freshman year, he never imagined he’ d continue to play his 
saxophone or trumpet in college.
“When I first came to UCSD, I thought my music career was done. 
I didn’t even bring any instruments. Week 0, I showed up to pep band’s rehearsal without an instrument. I was interested, so I came back with 
my instrument the next week, ” Pineda said. “I distinctly remember a moment when we were playing something and I thought to myself, 
‘Wow, this is exactly where I need to be right now. ’ It really clicked for 
me right away during Week 1 of freshman year. ”
The pep band plays from a songbook filled with the sheet music 
for about 60 to 70 different songs. They play plenty of pop songs that audiences will recognize and get excited about, but they like to stray from the beaten path when it comes to the artists they cover.“Compared to other college bands, we tend to have a lesser percentage 
of recognizable pop and rock pieces, but they’re very fun to play for us. 
Sometimes we play ska music, which is a mixture of pop, rock music, a 
little bit of jazz, ” Pineda said. “Sometimes we consider expanding our book a bit to have more songs people might recognize and if we really 
need to play something that people need to recognize, we can do that. 
But it always comes back to the idea that most of the time, we’re playing for our enjoyment. ”
A pep-band favorite is the punk rock band Streetlight Manifesto, 
whose songs the band always saves for the end of gigs and rehearsals. 
The title of the traditional rehearsal-ending song aptly reflects the band’s 
teamwork-oriented mindset.
“ A standout song is ‘We Will Fall Together. ’ After every rehearsal, 
we have a tradition: We finish all the songs we’re practicing, 
the conductor cuts 
us off, and we start packing up. Then 
the drummers start 
playing a song, starting off with a drum beat. 
Usually, it’s ‘We Will 
Fall Together, ’” Wilson said. “It’s the most 
rambunctious, weird 
song. It’s really cool 
because the conductors aren’t conducting us, we’re just walking around 
and doing it on our own. I don’t know how to describe it, but it’s really 
fun. That’s one of my favorites. ”
The pep band’s versatile repertoire means it is able to play at a 
variety of different events, including men’s and women’s basketball and volleyball games. There, the musicians cheer vociferously, taunting the opposing free throw shooters. For their numbers, they play very loudly, 
their music bouncing off the gym walls. They truly seem a part of the 
sports teams’ success. 
The band has also performed at water polo games, played in a few 
parades off campus, and have been invited to play at campus dining halls. The group even played on Library Walk during Founder’s Day. The favorite event seems to be the parade and the battle of the bands 
showdown at the UC Davis Picnic Day, which is — as Pineda puts it — 
“the culmination of the year. ” 
“We take an eight-hour bus ride up to Davis and the bus is usually 
full. We have a parade, and then...we’ll have the Battle of the Bands. It’s a lot of fun. It can last anywhere from six to eight hours, ” Pineda said. “One of the older students always told me, don’t play during the parade, 
because you’re not going to be fine later. I didn’t listen to him and I was 
“Not to be cliche, but it’s always the people, my 
friends. Games are really fun; they’re a lot of yelling 
and heckling, ” Pineda said. “It’s kind of disappointing 
sometimes that there’s not a lot of people at games 
here. But for us, it kind of makes it more fun because 
you can hear everything we’re yelling at the players. 
There’s nothing to drown us out. ” 
The Story Behind 
the UC San Diego 
Pep Band and How They Learned to March to the Beat 
of Their Own Drum 
PHOTO COURTESY OF KYLE SZETO
The UC San Diego 
pep band o ffers a fun 
and ful filling outlet for 
UCSD’s many passionate 
musicians.
By Charlotte Armstrong // Senior Sta ff 
Writer
SeePEP BAND , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
so tired! We usually go all the way till Davis wants to end, and then we head out. ”
Besides the UCSD pep band, those participating in the mock competition 
include bands from UC Berkeley, UCLA, UC Irvine, Humboldt State University, 
Stanford University, and of course, the UC Davis marching band. As assistant manager, Wilson is in charge of organizing the trip to the event.
“It’s so much fun. All the music we practice and everything we do leads up 
to that. For the Battle of the Bands, all the bands are lined up, and one band will 
play a song, then the next, and so on. It loops back around and the first band to 
repeat a song loses, ” Wilson said. “This goes on from noon until sometimes 2 a.m. It’s just a blast. It’s exhausting, but it’s absolutely my favorite part of the year. 
Just being around the other schools; it’s essentially like a big party.”
The camaraderie among the band’s members seems to be a highlight for most 
musicians who are part of it. Lily Dunn, a freshman from Eleanor Roosevelt College majoring in political science, plays tuba in the pep band. As a commuter 
student, she found it was hard to make friends when she started at UCSD.
“Joining the pep band enabled me to kind of have a social life and get some 
friends. Whenever you’re in a group that hangs out all the time — we have rehearsal every week for two hours — it’s a natural thing that you end up making friends in the group, ” Dunn said. “I really like the community that comes out of 
it, and all the friendships. ”
When asked what his favorite part of playing in the pep band was, Pineda 
didn’t hesitate before answering.
“Not to be cliche, but it’s always the people, my friends. Games are really 
fun; they’re a lot of yelling and heckling, ” Pineda said. “It’s kind of disappointing 
sometimes that there’s not a lot of people at games here. But for us, it kind of 
makes it more fun because you can hear everything we’re yelling at the players. 
There’s nothing to drown us out. ”
The band doesn’t require auditions and it’s open to musicians at all levels. 
They rehearse once a week and they encourage interested students to check out their website online if they want to join.
“We would accept anyone, quite literally. We’ve had students who have come 
in and didn’t even know how to read music and they became officers since then, ” Wilson said. “It’s not a class, there’s no credit, and it’s 100 percent volunteer. There’s no strict time commitment either, because we understand that all the 
members are students and we’re here at UCSD to be students. Because of that, 
the players who do come tend to be confident and strong. ”
Pineda would love to see the pep band grow and build up its numbers, 
which would give it a more consistent sound. The more members they have, the more likely they’ll have every instrument they need playing at each gig. He 
successfully recruited many people for the band this year, and they had a high 
turnout at their first meeting, but a lack of organization meant that not everyone stuck around throughout the quarter.
“Some people might say, we’ll sound better if we’re smaller and we practice 
more. But at least for me, the way I look at it, the more people we have, the easier it will be to sound better, ” Pineda said. “The size that we’re aiming for is maybe 
like 50 people that consistently show up. ”
Wilson agrees that an ideal situation would see the band grow, especially 
because UCSD is planning to transition its sports teams to Division I. 
“Ideally, we’re hoping to see the pep band grow, just because sports will 
become a bigger deal at UCSD, and we’ll want a bigger band to hype the crowd 
up. If the band can grow later, I would love that. But I won’t complain if that 
doesn’t happen because I’m very happy with how the pep band is right now and 
I wouldn’t change it, ” Wilson said. “What I want in the future is for everyone in the pep band to be there because they want to be there. It’s a good time where 
everyone is really happy. It might sound cliche, but that is what I want for the 
pep band. ”
The group seems an ideal chance for any musician, proficient or aspiring, to 
get a chance to do something they love with other people who enjoy it as much as they do. At basketball games, they joke and laugh with each other, pausing to play out their Streetlight Manifesto songs and cheer at the top of their lungs. 
It’s not hard to see the appeal of such a close-knit group and the band members’ 
testimonies speak for themselves.
“This is my main friend group, ” Wilson said. “My lifelong friends are being 
made in the pep band. ”▶ PEP BAND , from page 6
Charlotte Armstrong  c1armstr@ucsd.edu
Good luck going 
into winter 
quarter!
- The guardianA&E EDITOR // DAISY SCOTT
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Fun action scenes and visual e ffects keep “ Aquaman” entertaining despite a confusing plot and an unnecessarily lengthy runtime.
Earning over $822 million worldwide, 
“ Aquaman” has the second highest global earnings of any DC movie, behind 
“Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. ” This is especially notable considering it hasn’t left theaters yet. While the movie boasts of ambitious special effects and entertaining action scenes, but 
the plot is too convoluted to hold the viewer’s 
attention for the nearly two-and-a-half hour runtime. 
The movie’s introduction centers around the 
story of how Aquaman’s (Jason Momoa) parents, 
Queen Atlanna (Nicole Kidman) of Atlantis 
and lighthouse keeper Tom Curry (Temuera Morrison), met and and gave birth to Arthur Curry, their half-Atlantan, half-human son. 
The introduction continues on to show how 
Arthur discovered his ability to communicate with sea creatures while being bullied at school. From there the film cuts to an adult version of Aquaman saving the crew of a Russian submarine 
from pirates, having fully developed his powers. 
This is when he meets the man who will later become the movie’s first villain, Black Manta (Y ahya Abdul Mateen II).
Meanwhile, King Orm (Patrick Wilson) of 
Atlantis, Arthur’s half-brother, decides to wage 
war against the surface world for polluting the 
ocean and killing innocent sea creatures. In order to build a strong enough army, he must gain the support of at least four of the seven nations under 
the sea. He sets out with the Atlantean army to 
win over the other nations.
Meanwhile, Orm’s fiancee, Mera (Amber 
Heard), travels to land to recruit Aquaman and convince him to take his place as the king of 
Atlantis, as is his birthright. After almost losing 
a battle to Orm, Arthur and Mera escape to search for the fabled all-powerful triton that once belonged to the first king of the seas. 
Meanwhile, Orm recruits the villain 
introduced at the start of the film — Black Manta — to find and kill Arthur and Mera on land while the duo search for the trident. Orm continues to try to gain the support of other nations under 
the sea. 
This all happens in the first half of the movie. 
There’s another story, which begins with the search for the ancient trident that takes up the 
second half of the film, which includes a few more “meanwhiles. ” Although the film stays fairly 
accurate to the comics, all of the combined 
storylines and the inclusion of two powerful villains, each worthy of their own films, distract from the dialogue and ruin the pace of the film. 
There’s also a few flashbacks about Aquaman’s 
childhood interspersed throughout the multiple storylines, which make the movie even harder to follow. 
However, Jason Momoa shines in the role of 
Aquaman, and it’s hard not to believe that he’s essentially playing himself. Nicole Kidman and Amber Heard compliment Momoa well, but Momoa ultimately steals the show. Unfortunately, 
between the action sequences, flashbacks, and the 
frequent shifts between storylines, there wasn’t a lot of time for character development or much witty dialogue. Since Disney will certainly make a sequel after the success of the first audiences 
will hopefully see more of the character’s sarcastic 
comments and jokes in future movies. 
Despite its drawbacks, one of the best aspects of the film is its visual effects. Director James W an does a great job of making the underwater movement seem realistic, and the worlds he 
creates in the depths of the ocean are unique 
and beautiful. Despite much of the film taking place deep underwater, past the reach of sunlight, the lighting of the scenes is natural. W an strikes 
a balance between capturing the beauty of the 
cities and creatures that exist underwater and preserving the mysterious qualities of the deep. W an’s previous works include “The Conjuring” and “Fast and Furious 7, ” and his experience 
with action scenes is easily evident in “ Aquaman. ” 
The visual effects used in these scenes when the characters are underwater keep the movie entertaining, and they’re what make the movie 
memorable long after audiences have forgotten all 
the things that actually happened.
—Promita Nandy
Guest Writer
FILM   REVIEW
AquaMan
PHOTO COURTESY OF IGN.COM
PHOTO COURTESY OF BILLBOARD.COM
Directed by   James Wan  
Starring  oJason Momoa, Amber Heard, Nicole Kidman, Patrick Wilson, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Willem Dafoe, Temuera Morrison
Release Date  December 21, 2018
Rated  PG-13CB
June 25, 2009. This date is significant as many individuals can 
quickly recall where they were when they heard that Michael 
Jackson, the King of Pop, had passed away. Michael Jackson 
was a star from his youth onward, and he left this Earth with a 
legacy ranging from the music of the Jackson 5 to his various solo 
projects. Despite his passing, his music will live on forever.
June 29, 2018. Drake, one of the biggest names in modern hip-
hop, released his album “Scorpion, ” which featured vocals from the late Michael Jackson. Obviously, Jackson was not able to record his 
voice on the song “Don’t Matter to Me. ” Drake simply obtained the rights to Jackson’s previously recorded and unfinished vocals. 
Many fans quickly went to social media, tweeting about the eye-
catching feature Drake had on his tracklist, but for many, it instantly felt wrong. It was immediately called to question: Would Jackson 
want to be on a Drake album? Regardless of whose approval Drake 
was able to buy, there is no way to determine how Jackson himself would have felt about this decision made on his behalf. Jackson’s 
name will always be attached to a Drake album he never agreed 
to be a part of. His unfinished vocals will now sing the hook to a song he never heard, and it does not seem morally correct. Some 
may argue that because the artist is gone, what is done thereafter 
holds no significance, but art will always be different. An artist should have the ultimate say in what they are attached to, and in a 
situation where they are incapable, it does not imply a pass. Music 
itself is vastly personal, and what is released to the world should be representative of what the artist intended. 
As time passed, this “Don’t Matter to Me” controversy seemed 
to fade away, and “Scorpion” slowly fell off the charts. However, the issues of posthumous music releases continue to trouble the music industry.
In recent months, the hip hop music community has tragically 
seen the passing of two of its most heralded young talents, XXXTentacion and Lil Peep, at the ages of 21 and 20, respectively. 
With this came what is to be expected — grieving fan bases, left to 
wonder what could have been and only left to appreciate what the artists had already released. The community would listen to the 
work these artists had poured their hearts into and would be able 
to reminisce with the music left behind. 
To this day, “Rest in peace X” and “Rest in peace Peep” fill the 
Twitter feeds, Instagram stories, and every social media outlet imaginable. Nonetheless, there was too much money that could be made after the artists’ death to let this be true, too much money left 
on the table for these artists to truly rest in peace. Executives saw a 
market that would undoubtedly stream a posthumous album to the top of the charts, pulling in revenue for just about everyone at the 
expense of artistry and baseline respect. The industry is cutthroat, 
and that doesn’t change when tragedy presents itself.
Grieving fanbases hoping to hear just one more song were an 
exploitable market that apparently couldn’t be passed up. With unfinished vocals and pieces, both artists had albums released on their behalf. XXXTentacion’s “Skins, ” was released over five months 
following his passing. The reaction was just as to be expected — his 
young and adoring fans streamed the album to the top of the charts. However, many are left to wonder, who are they really listening to? 
The music that is climbing the charts is that of various producers, 
sound engineers, and individuals who are not representative of X himself. Despite efforts to match the artists tastes, it is undoubtedly the case that the music released, had X himself been alive, would 
minimally have several different aspects to it. No matter the 
intentions behind the various individuals finishing the album, it is impossible to capture the essence of an individual who is not 
longer with us. 
Undoubtedly, the vocals of XXXTentacion are those featured 
on the album, but the art is not up to par with the work he released prior to his death. XXXTentacion was an artist who deserved 
to have the final say in his art that is released to the world. No matter what the artist’s contractual obligations are, they should be 
abolished the second an individual tragically loses their life.
The music that is being streamed by millions across the world 
delivers artistic work that is not of Michael Jackson, XXXTentacion, or Lil Peep. These artists have been wronged and forcibly have 
their names attached to music they did not approve, art they did not create, and a message they may not even share. These fallen 
artists may turn in their graves as executives capitalize on work 
that should have been stamped void in favor of letting their already established legacies live on as they were, and their spirits live on 
in peace. “Rest in peace” means nothing if they may not truly be 
in peace. There are few situations where morality is an objective item, but when it comes to dealing with issues such as these, there 
is no argument. Art, no matter its form, should be created by the 
individual it claims.The Morality of  Posthumous Music Releases: Continuing or Corrupting a Legacy?
In recent months, the music industry has seen tragic losses of life, raising questions regarding how to handle the un finished art that is le ft behind.
matthew rudas  mrudas@ucsd.eduA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
On a cold December 4th in San Diego, 
hundreds of hipsters crowded together in 
Little Italy’s three-storied Music Box to see 
Mac DeMarco, a name that is ubiquitous among indie fans. The gap-toothed Canadian 
artist known for his sleepy brand of lo-fi indie 
concluded his three-week solo tour with a marathon 20-song set that featured tunes 
from his entire discography.
I say “marathon, ” but anyone familiar with 
DeMarco’s work knows that he’s never really in a hurry, musically. His signature style is 
a sauntering introspection that doesn’t rush to the point. He’s most definitely not a punk 
artist or overly energetic. This attitude was 
persistent in the entirety of his show.
The concert was front-loaded with crowd 
pleasers “Salad Days, ” “Still Beating, ” and “This Old Dog, ” to which a good majority of the crowd responded enthusiastically. The 
bulk of the set, however, was spent pulling out 
oldies and rarities that dyed-in-the-wool fans would appreciate. 
Each song was introduced with an anecdote about the circumstances that influenced its inspiration. DeMarco regaled stories about 
past tours, living in Montreal, defrauding a 
community center, and the untimely death of a cat he was supposed to watch for a friend. 
For other songs, such as between “Treat 
Her Better” and “One Another, ” DeMarco popped a pimple on his face, and talked 
about YouTube videos of people removing 
their ingrown toenails, which had absolutely nothing to do with the songs. Even DeMarco 
observed at one point, “The banter is very 
strange tonight. ”
On songs like “Ode to Viceroy, ” the crowd 
cheerfully sang the guitar solos in the absence of a lead guitar player. Mac yodeled and sang falsetto for other notable instrumental fills. 
These human substitutes for instruments gave 
a more stripped back and intimate attitude to the songs, which fit the atmosphere well. 
The stage was littered with the kind of 
things you would find at a garage sale in the suburbs: giant plastic Christmas candle lights, 
an old-school globe, various busts, a Kool cigarettes storefront sign, a moon-shaped 
lamp, and an obnoxiously loud Halloween 
animatronic that would decapitate itself. Set 
before a Party City disco ball and a projector screen displaying a loop of slo-mo aerial 
footage taken at sunset, this was the kind of 
low-budget, tongue-in-cheek aesthetic that DeMarco is known for. 
In the middle of “ Annie, ” the moon lamp 
that was suspended over the projector screen fell to the stage floor with a disruptive clunk. 
DeMarco, without missing a beat, turned 
around to see what had happened, then lamented “Oh, my moon! I got that f----er 
at CVS!” 
A stagehand promptly replaced the lamp 
to its perch to enthusiastic cheers from the audience. 
At the conclusion of the song, DeMarco 
began a story about his various stage props malfunctioning on tour, before realizing one 
of the Christmas candles went dim.
“What the f---, the candles out, too!”
DeMarco closed the night with “Still Together. ” Despite having endured a nearly 
two-hour set of slow, stripped-down songs, 
the crowd loudly and energetically cajoled 
him back on stage for an encore. DeMarco, in a pantomimed reluctance, played an 
abbreviated rendition of “Watching Him Fade 
Away” on the keyboard before pronouncing, “Bye bye for real, ” dropping the mic, and 
sprinting offstage.
Part prop-comedy, part VH1 Storytellers 
and laced with burps and poop jokes, DeMarco’s solo set was distinctly reminiscent 
of an unassuming kickback with your stoner friends. Unusually more intimate than his full 
band shows, the set still feels familiar. It was 
decidedly goofy, but nothing felt out of place or artificial. Everything about his set, from 
the banter to the stage decor, felt genuine and 
on-brand. Mac DeMarco is one of the more self-aware artists of the indie genre.
— Tyler Faurot
Staff Writer
“Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse” combines smooth animation and novel writing into a movie unique in a market saturated by generic movies.
Starting with the 2002 “Spider-Man” 
movie starring Tobey Maguire, movie studios have spent the better part of two 
decades trying to get this iconic superhero right on the big screen. With  “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, ” they have finally hit the mark. Three characters set this story in motion: Miles Morales voiced by Shameik Moore, 
Spider-Man (Peter Parker) voiced by Chris 
Pine, and the main antagonist of the movie, Kingpin voiced by Liev Schreiber. The movie centers around Miles Morales, a 13-year-old boy struggling to find himself, when he is 
bit by a radioactive spider in an old subway 
station. He exists in the timeline of a Spider-Man that is meant to be an amalgamation of all the onscreen Peter Parkers that came 
before him, a young charismatic hero who 
has the heart of New York City as he keeps them safe from evil. This Spider-Man meets his end in a catastrophic incident while he was trying to prevent Kingpin from creating 
a transdimensional portal, a death that Miles 
bore witness to when he went back to the old subway station looking for the spider that bit him. As Spider-Man is dying, he tasks Miles with a mission, to disable the portal, and that is the basis for the rest of the movie. 
Several storylines blend together to keep 
the audience enraptured all the way to the end, a testament to the pacing and world-building in the movie, as the runtime is just shy of two hours. Although Miles opens as the anchor 
story and remains so throughout the movie, 
the rest of the characters are fleshed out in a way that make them compelling, allowing viewers to become invested without being overwhelmed. Peter B. Parker voiced by Jake 
Johnson, the first alternate universe Spider-
Man we meet, is a haggard and demoralized version of the character who spends most of the movie making self-deprecating and 
sarcastic remarks and serving almost as an 
anti-hero. Throughout the movie we see how interacting with Miles, and even unwillingly, teaching him the ropes helps him regain a sense of self. The rest of the motley crew of 
alternate universe Spider heroes also seem 
to grow from the movie in their own, much smaller, character arcs. The attention to detail in the story development in the movie is incredibly impressive and one of the key factors in making this movie such a success. 
The animation of the movie was a feat of 
technological advancement and dedication to the project. It is meant to inspire the feeling of being inside a comic book, with line work and speech bubbles and the look 
of comic art — but in fully fleshed out CGI 
animation. This was achieved by combining the aforementioned CGI with 2D techniques and the results are impeccable. Each of the multi-verse characters looks like the type 
of animation their character would have. 
For example, Peni Parker voiced by Kimiko Glenn, is animated like one would expect of anime-style animation, and the Spider-Noir, 
voiced by Nicholas Cage, style is presented 
with what one would expect if mystery novels were animate. They each exist within the main comic book frame but look and feel like their own separate characters, which allows 
audiences to really immerse themselves in the 
notion of the multi-verse.
The movie has everything going in its favor — a compelling story, a brilliant script, and gorgeous animation. The writing was brilliant, the humor of all types abounds, especially 
from Peter B. Parker whose apathy and dry 
wit play into larger situational jokes. Each character plays into their universes’ ‘genres’ for their humor, for example, Spider-Noir relies on overly dramatic and exaggeration 
statements, which comes from noir novels’ 
convoluted and dramatic plots. Miles is a main character of color, whose race is not used for politically correct brownie points but is instead just a part of his identity. Miles is an Afro-
Latino character, not a caricature, and that is 
a very important part of what solidifies this movie. Fundamentally, the movie represents a divergence from the cookie-cutter superhero 
movie we have all come to expect, with a 
diverse range of characters and intelligent script writing that elevates the movie from a simple kid cartoon movie to an artistic piece.
 
— adriana barrios
Contributing Writer
FILM   REVIEW
spider-man:  into  the  spider-verse
PHOTO COURTESY OF GEEKYTYRANT.COM
Directed by   Peter Ramsey, Robert Persichetti Jr., Rodney Rothman 
Starring  Shameik Moore, Jake Johnson, Hailee Steinfeld, Mahershala Ali
Release Date  December 14, 2018
Rated  PGCA
CONCERT  REVIEW
Mac  Demarco
PHOTO COURTESY OF DIYMAG.COM
Event Dates   December 4, 2018
Venue   Music BoxCA-10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  7 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Probably the most commonly answered question by many college 
students is, “What is your major?” I, for one, knew what I wanted to major 
in when I was a high school senior — dental hygiene. After spending a year and a half in community college and finishing most of the prerequisites and general education requirements, I decided to halt the idea of having 
my hands in people’s mouths for the rest of my life. Clueless with what I 
wanted to do with my future and having unhelpful advisors, I talked to a fellow friend who majored in my current studies, and he convinced me to switch away from healthcare.
I was not entirely sure whether I would enjoy the major but knew my 
parents wanted me to obtain my bachelor’s degree as soon as possible and had thought it was “easy. ” Admittedly, the core major courses I have taken at UC San Diego are not as difficult as I had thought. It turns out that I 
have absolutely no interest in them and slowly found myself envying my 
friends in other fields of studies. Yes, I am a coward. I was afraid to switch my studies knowing that I may have to stay a few more quarters up to an entire year. However, I figured that I will somehow discover what I want to 
do with my major and that everything would be fine. That was not the case.
Before school began this year, I began to worry a lot. I was a senior with 
only a year left of college and had little to no internship experience. What 
am I going to do with my life? Students in my studies usually end up in 
media production, marketing, or public relations. Not only do I personally 
think my department does not well-prepare its students with these skills, but more importantly, I have no passion in these fields. Understanding my circumstances, in Spring 2018, I added a business minor after a friend 
strongly recommended the program and knowing that a couple of my major 
elective courses can also be used to fulfill the minor. 
I fell in complete love with the business minor. I am interested in the 
topics I have been learning and am excited to attend lectures to learn practical skills. Soon, I realized that I chose a major unfit for me. When I decided that I wanted to focus my career in finance then eventually management, I noticed that majors such as economics or international 
business would have been a better fit for me. Nevertheless, the next 
problem arises: finding internships and joining clubs related to my interest. Since I am late to the game, I missed out on many different networking opportunities, leading me to struggle to compete with other applicants for internships, and even had a mid-quarter crisis about my future. 
Eventually, I have learned to accept the fact that I regret my chosen 
major, but ultimately I will be fine. I am preparing to attend graduate school upon graduation for a field that I am truly interested in. I do not blame 
UCSD for the personal choices I have made; in fact, it taught me that I 
should have ignored the idea of the traditional four-year college. I may not appreciate my major, yet I enjoy the experiences and friends I met through my major’s classes. Though I am not sure where I will be next year this time, I am taking life slowly and definitely ready to accept what the future 
holds for me.I Regret My Major and I Am Okay With It
by Rebecca Tsang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Welcome back to San Diego! The new year has a lot in store for this city 
of ours, starting with a range of fun events in January. 
Have a laugh and learn something new with Stand Up Science with 
Shane Mauss . Part stand-up comedy show, part academic discussion, this 
unique Jan. 10 event features comedians and researchers sharing their 
funniest material on brainy topics. The American Comedy Co. also has 
a great lineup of comedians this month, such as Shawn Wayans  on Jan. 
11-12, Pablo Francisco  on Jan. 17-19, and Joel McHale  on Jan. 25-26. 
Get a glimpse of winter with the Poway Winter Festival  on Jan. 11-12. 
Build a snowman, sled down the hill, roast some marshmallows, and have 
a go around the skating rink. Food vendors will also be present at this 
magical celebration. 
You don’t have to go far for good food. On Jan. 18, Triton Fest and 
Multi-Asian Student Association are teaming up for the annual Asian 
Night Market  on Library Walk. Grab some free treats, but bring some cash 
to try the amazing Asian dishes that will be right on our campus. San Diego Restaurant Week  is back! From Jan. 20-27, over 180 
different restaurants across San Diego County are offering special deals for multi-course meals. Prices range from $10 to $50, making it the perfect 
opportunity to return to a favorite or try a place you’ve been meaning to 
go to. 
Join fellow beverage and chocolate lovers on the San Diego Caffeine 
Crawl  on Jan. 25-27. Visit roasters, cafes, and other companies, try samples, 
and learn about the local caffeine scene along the way. There are a total of 10 routes to choose from, each with a different selection of participants, 
meaning there’s something for every schedule and every taste bud. 
Ever wanted to be an Instagram star? Head to Triton Fest’s Under the 
Influencer  event to meet and hear social media influences talk about their 
journey. Take some aesthetic pictures at the photo ops and join Stephanie 
Soo (Missmangobutt) for a live mukbang on Jan. 26.P eeks and Previews:
January
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle EditorLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
New year, new you? The new year may be the time for fresh goals and 
glittering promises, but few people actually stick to their resolutions. Here are 
some tips I’ve learned for creating resolutions that last for the next 12 months. 
Be realistic. 
Resolutions should be accomplishable. As much as we’ d all like to become a 
billionaire or have our face in a magazine, those things don’t happen right away. The best way to form resolutions is to think of those big dreams, and 
then formulate little goals that can help you get there. If you want to be a 
CEO, maybe focus on getting an internship in your field. If you want to be a musician, contact local cafes or small venues to see if they’ll let you play. 
Be specific. 
Go over your list and see what sounds vague. What does “exercise more” 
actually mean? Is it running in the neighborhood, lifting three times a week, 
or attending a yoga class? Is “eating healthier” cutting out all processed foods, or adding more fruits to your diet? Adding tangibility to things forces you to 
focus on what you actually want, and it gives you solid objectives to follow. 
Instead of “read more, ” try “read at least one book every month” or “stick to a book club. ” Instead of “be more present, ” commit to “no phones in social 
situations” or “no electronics before bedtime. ” Be accountable. 
Keep your list somewhere that’s easy to find, like a journal or desk drawer. If you don’t mind having your list out in semi-public, like pinned up on a 
bulletin board or on the fridge, it can be helpful to be reminded of your goals every day. Pick a day each month to go over your resolutions and see how 
much you’ve achieved. 
Be kind. 
Don’t think of your resolutions as finite and set in stone — they are working 
goals that can be adjusted. If you find that your schedule doesn’t allow you to accomplish everything you set out to do, alter your goals until they work. 
Ultimately, don’t write down a resolution that you actually don’t want to do 
or that makes you unhappy. Resolutions are meant to help you improve the quality of life to your wants and needs, not to anyone else’s. 
Happy 2019!  by Samirah Martinez // Lifestyle Staff WriterHow to Keep a New Year's Resolution
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  J A N U A R Y  7 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Follow us on 
social media!
@ucsdguardian CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
JONATHAN NUSSMANTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
JAN 7 - JAN 13
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 11 • 7pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org10am
ON UCSD- TV TONIGHT —SHAPING 
OUR DYNAMIC MICROBIOMES FOR 
LIFELONG HEALTH—EXPLORING ETHICS
Our lifespans are ever-increasing, but our 
healthspans are not, leading to long periods of unpleasant and expensive suffering with chronic 
conditions. Many of these conditions have 
recently been linked to the microbiome. We 
change our constantly shaping our microbiomes through the foods we eat, the environments we 
experience, even the people we live and work 
with. Through the American Gut Project, the 
largest crowdsourced and crowdfunded citizen-science project yet conducted, we now know about the microbiomes of many types of people, from the healthiest to the sickest. Potentially real-time analysis of our microbiomes could guide our daily decisions in a way that optimizes our microbiomes for extending our healthspan. Although the potential benefits of such research are clear, what are the risks (e.g., privacy concerns) that need to be identified and addressed? Rob Knight, PhD explains.
5pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
DIY BULLET JOURNALS – PC EAST BALLROOM
FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. Happy New Year! 
Kick off 2019 by getting organized at DIY Bullet 
Journals! Come and set goals! Come and be 
creative! Bullet Journals can be used as planners, goal trackers, sketch books, class notebooks, and much more! We’ll be providing empty bullet journals with customizable planner inserts, washi tape, gel pens, and ALL THE STICKERS! **SUPPLIES ARE LIMITED AND IT IS A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS** Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu5pm
WOMEN’S CENTER IS HIRING 
2019-2020 INTERNS – WOMEN’S CENTER
Applications due Tuesday, January 22nd. 
Submit Apps to the front desk by 4pm. Hiring Information Sessions: Fall Week 10: Tuesday, Dec 4th at 3pm. Winter Week 1: Thursday, Jan 10th at 5pm. Both sessions will be held in the Women’s Center! Applications & job descriptions will be available at the front desk and online starting December 1st. For more info, please email Jessica Martinez at jem132@ucsd.edu. Contact: spanchag@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS SOMI – 
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Singing in English and a wide range of African 
languages, Somi has had a fascinating artistic 
evolution. Born in Illinois to immigrants from 
Rwanda and Uganda, she has spent the last decade building a career as a jazz vocalist, songwriter, and activist through transatlantic sonicism and storytelling. Her newest album, Petite Afriquea darling, relevant refashioning of what jazz and African music means inspired by the vibrant African immigrant community that has become a vital part of Harlem. Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduTUE1.08 THU1.10 MON1.07
9:30am
WHALE WATCHING WITH BIRCH 
AQUARIUM - TWICE -DAILY 
CRUISES DEPART FROM 
DOWNTOWN SAN DIEGO 
Embark on an unforgettable journey with the 
ocean experts at Birch Aquarium at Scripps! 
Witness the longest mammal migration in the 
world, when approximately 20,000 gray whales 
pass San Diego on their annual 10,000-mile 
round-trip journey from the Bering Sea to the 
lagoons of Baja California.
Trips leave from the Flagship Cruises and 
Events docks in downtown San Diego (about a 
20-minute drive south of Birch Aquarium).
Contact: Birch Aquarium  •  
aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu  •  858-534-3474
7pm
JONATHAN NUSSMAN, BARITONE 
– GRADUATE RECITAL – CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
Jonathan Nussman is a baritone whose varied 
interests include opera, theater, and chamber 
music, with a special emphasis on music from 
the 20th and 21st centuries. His strong musicality and thoughtful interpretations have made him a unique performer and contributor to the music scene on both the East and West Coasts. As a performer, he explores multi-disciplinary intersections of contemporary vocal practice, theater, new technologies, performance art, visual art, movement and dance, improvisation, and more traditional operatic and concert repertoire. Contact: lbrindam@ucsd.eduFRI1.11CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
SAVE THE DATES...14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
HAPPY WINTER
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Stockpile
6. Prehistoric dwelling10. Right away!
14. Gem weight
15. Till bills
16. Ice unit17. Join18. Pleasant
20. Ascot
21. Ceremonial events
23. Primp24. Spring holiday26. Ancient object
28. Classify
30. Seas
34. Strike37. Des Moines natives40. Fight
41. Tosses
42. Vocation
43. Gambling cubes44. Rink surface45. Open shoe46. Poems of praise47. Early car (2 wds.)49. Tiny insect51. Oozes54. Merited58. Personal preference61. Fibbers63. Period in history64. Intolerant of delay66. Meager68. Tidy69. Mexican snack70. Supernatural71. Poker opener72. Flower stalk73. MisplacesDOWN
 1. Sharp2. Excessive excitement3. Zodiac ram
4. Used a stool
5. Music system
6. Outerwear7. Infuriate8. Stanza
9. Opposite of WNW
10. Not abundant
11. Toothpaste container12. Talented13. Adolescent
19. Heroic poems
22. Aggravate
25. Recipe abbr.27. More in need of company29. Ripped
31. Enthusiastic
32. Kind
33. Observes34. Thin35. Cuckoo36. Asleep38. Bankroll39. First man43. Active person45. Icy precipitation48. Landed property50. Hanging ornament52. Kilt fold53. From that time55. Advances56. Bert’s friend57. Calendar numbers58. Rocker ____ Turner59. Prayer finale60. Argument62. Potent particle65. ____ a boy!67. Corp. headCARS
2005 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. LS, Pickup 
Truck, Gas, This 2005 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 LS is proudly offered by Rancho Chrysler Dodge Jeep RAM Low, low mileage coupled with an exacting maintenance program make this vehicle a rare find. Based on the exceptional condition of this vehicle, along with the options and color, this Silverado 1500 LS is sure to sell fast... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2014 Nissan Sentra Sedan SV Sedan 4D. 
four Cylinder, 1.8 Liter, FWD, Automatic, 
CVT w/Xtronic, Traction Control, Vehicle 
Dynamic Control, ANTI LOCK BRAKES 
(4-Wheel), Keyless entry, Air conditioner, 
Powered windows, Power locking doors, 
Cruise Control, Powered steering, Tilt && 
amp; Telescopic Wheel, Am-fm stereo...
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2002 Ford Thunderbird Convertible 
PREMIUM Convertible. Raising the trip. 
Amazing acceleration! For a True Lexus 
Experience make sure to contact our USED 
ONLINE SALES MANAGERS at -LRB-888-RRB-
632-XXXX. Car purchasing Pressure-Free. 
Ford has outdone itself with this beautiful 
2002 Ford Thunderbird and with these low 
miles at this cost, it just doesn’t get any 
much better! Motor Trend Car of the Year 
in 2002…  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more informationBIKES
Antique Bicycles *** Best Offer. St Vincent de Paul - Specialty Items On-line Internet 
Auction
CalAuctions.com Only the best donations 
have been saved for this on-line auction! 
This sale is packed with amazing antiques 
including: Bronze Statues, Fine Art, 
Antique Furniture, Rugs, Quilts, Silver, 
Coins, Sporting Goods, Chairs, Mid Century 
Furniture, & Much MORE! Location: 815 
33rd Street,San Diego, CA 92102 1st Items 
starts closing on April 16th at 12:07PM... 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Moutain Bike Gary Fisher, Marlin, 
Womens - errific Condition. Hasn’t been 
ridden in 5 yrs due to being over seas. 
Size smallComponentsComponent 
Group: Mountain MixFront Derailleur: 
Front DerailleurRear Derailleur: Back 
DerailleurBrakeset: Promax aluminum 
brakes, aluminum leversShift Levers: 
Shimano Alivio RapidFireCrankset: 
Bontrager Sport… ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Women: Blue/Silver OCR 2 Compact Road 
Bike in excellent condition. Women’s -size 
small- road bike which comes with a brand-
new Tule Bike rack for two bikes, a helmet, 
bike pump, tools for changing tires,etc. Bike 
has new tires, has recently been tuned up 
and is ready to roll… ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationJOBS
Nanny needed - Hi! I need a nanny for my 
four children. Monday 9-12, Wednesday 10-4pm and Friday 8:15-12:15. And occasion date nights if possible. Rate is negotiable ($15-20) My children are on a great schedule so I really need someone that is reliable and loving that can be apart of their lives until at least May. Thank you! Melissa 619-762-0599 ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Clinical Lab Director (Part-Time). Highly 
Complex Lab - PhD or MD ONLY We are a 
clinical laboratory based in San Diego, CA 
in need of a part-time Clinical Laboratory 
Director. Our laboratory focuses on clinical 
toxicology and molecular testing. The 
Laboratory Director can work remotely 
from the laboratory with limited hours per 
month. If you are interested in applying to 
this role, please provide a cover letter and 
resume tohumanresources@phamatech.
com or apply online at www.phamatech.
com. ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
After School Instructor - Check out Coding 
with Kids - we are looking for instructors to teach coding to elementary and middle school students as well as camps. We will 
provide paid training and get you ready 
to teach with another instructor. We have 
opportunities at many local schools. 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
UC San Diego 
Continues Undefeated Streak
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team continues its 
dominance in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association conference play 
with an undefeated 9–0 conference record. The Tritons easily defeated 
California State University, San 
Bernardino (81–62), Humboldt 
State University (72–58), Sonoma State University (86–47), California State University, Los Angeles (81–
72), and California State University, 
Dominguez Hills (89–73) to keep their streak alive. 
Several key players continue to 
stand out through this successful 
winning streak:
Junior forward Mikayla 
Williams has been an essential part 
of the Triton o ffense and played 
an important role in the Triton’s five-game holiday break victories. 
Currently, Williams leads the CCAA with 20.1 points per game and is 
second with 11.3 rebounds per 
game. To round things out, Williams is also converting on 55.7 percent of her shots. Teams have been and will continue to struggle against the 
Tritons until they can find a way to 
handle Williams.
Senior guard Joleen Yang has 
been a steady presence for UCSD as well. Upping her points per game 
average from 9.4 last season to 12.3 this season, Yang wreaks havoc from both inside and outside the arc 
and provides consistent scoring for 
UCSD.
A new addition to the Triton 
squad, freshman guard Julia Macabuhay averaged 15.8 points 
per game during the holiday 
break games. Her scoring and facilitating was impactful for the Tritons. Macabuhay, alongside 
freshman guard Brianna Claros, 
lead the CCAA conference in assist-to-turnover ratios (2.9 and 2.7, respectively). As the season 
progresses, look to see Macabuhay 
and Claros facilitate the explosive Triton o ffense.
UCSD will play Stanislaus State 
University on Saturday, Jan. 12 at 
Fitzpatrick Arena in Turlock, CA. 
Tipoff is set for 5:30 p.m.
Women's   BasketballUC San Diego 
Continues 
Undefeated 
Streak
Many of the team’s star players 
excelled in the dominant 
performances
PHOTO COURTESY O F  UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS
BY Richard lu
Sports Editor
Richard Lu  ril014@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 7, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RICHARD  LU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
@ Sacred Heart
@ Cal Poly@ Harvard@ Stanislaus State@ Stanislaus StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
Swim & Dive
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball3PM
11AM
4PM
5:30PM7:30PM1/111/121/121/121/12
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team played at the Hawai’i 
Convention Center for the Hoops in 
Hawai’i D2 Power Invitational from 
Sunday, Dec. 16 to Tuesday, Dec. 18. The Tritons advanced past Hawai’i 
Pacific University (72–49) and 
Western Oregon University (73–63) but fell to Chaminade University in 
the championship game (64–70). 
Following the tournament, the 
Tritons returned home to RIMAC 
Arena to host the Humboldt 
State University Lumberjacks in 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association conference play. UCSD 
easily handed Humboldt State an 
85–62 defeat. The Tritons shot a 
blistering 15–27 from 3-point land, which the Lumberjacks were unable 
to match. 
Several days a fter defeating 
Humboldt State, UCSD faced o ff 
against the Sonoma State University 
Seawolves in a New Year’s Eve game 
that came down to the wire. Leading 
for the entirety of the game, the 
Tritons gave up a 10-point lead 
with 3:32 remaining. The Seawolves 
rallied back, pressuring the Tritons 
and closing the de ficit to 3. With 
the game at 80–77, redshirt junior 
center Chris Hansen turned the ball 
over. Fortunately for the Tritons, the 
Seawolves missed the game-tying 
shot and fell, 80–77.
Coming o ff the turn of the New 
Year, the team traveled up to Los Angeles to play California State University, Los Angeles. The Golden 
Eagles handed the Tritons their first 
CCAA loss of the season, 55–61. 
UCSD — the team that leads the 
CCAA in 3-point field goal attempts 
and 3-point field goal percentage 
— shot poorly from behind the arc 
and only converted on 7 of 29 shots 
from downtown. Averaging out to 
24.1 percent, this uncharacteristic 
shooting performance led to the 
Triton’s defeat in Los Angeles.
Unshaken by its first conference 
loss, UCSD rallied back to shut 
out California State University, 
Dominguez Hills. The Tritons 
regained their shooting stroke 
against the Toros and dropped 14 
shots from 3-point territory on 
43.8 percent shooting. Hansen notched a 21-point and 10-rebound 
double-double on an efficient 7-of-
12 shooting performance. Redshirt 
sophomore guard Mikey Howell 
contributed with 12 points of his 
own alongside a game-leading 8 
assists.
As it currently stands, the Tritons 
are 13–3 overall with an 8–0 record 
at home. In the CCAA conference, 
UCSD sits in the number one spot with an 8–1 record.
With the holiday break coming 
to a close, the team looks to its next 
conference contest against Sonoma State University. The Tritons will 
play the Warriors on Saturday, Jan. 12 at Fitzpatrick Arena in Turlock, 
CA. Tipo ff is scheduled for 7:30 p.m.Men's basketballUC San Diego Men’s 
Basketball Tops the 
Competition
A Hawai’i tournament was the site of the 
Tritons’ climax over Winter Break.
BY Richard Lu
sports editor
Richard  Lu  ril014@ucsd.edu
Tweet  your  
favo r ite  m em o ry 
of  break  to  us!
@ucsdguardianPHOTO COURTESY O F  UC SAN DIEGO ATHLETICS