UC San Diego announced that 118,372 
prospective freshman and transfer 
students have applied to the university, 
breaking last year’s record of 116,452 applicants, and 
coming in second place as the UC school that was 
most applied to, after UCLA.
According to the UC San Diego News Center, 
over 65 percent of this year’s freshman applicants and 80 percent of transfer applicants were from 
California, following a trend of more and more Californian high school seniors applying to the 
university.
Among all high school seniors, nearly 10 percent 
more arts majors and 8 percent more humanities 
majors applied to the campus, in comparison to last year’s applications. Among transfer students, there 
was about a 10-percent increase in applications for 
arts majors and a 5-percent increase in humanities.
“We are pleased to receive a record number of 
applications from so many diverse and talented young scholars, ” Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla said in the news release. “ As a university constantly 
pushing the frontiers of knowledge to benefit 
society, UC San Diego continues to attract the best and the brightest students who make up our vibrant 
campus community. ”
Last year, UCSD offered admission to 38,926 
undergraduate students at an acceptance rate of 30.2 percent for freshmen and 49 percent for transfer 
students. This marks a dramatic increase from the 28,587 admitted undergraduates in 2017.
UCSD has spent the past couple of years trying 
to brand itself as a world-class science, technology, engineering and math research institution, 
tying with UCLA for 18th in the nation for best undergraduate engineering programs. Likewise, the 
university has tried to expand its undergraduate 
humanities programs, recently adding majors in 
Political Science - Data Analytics, and US Latino/a and Latin American Literatures.
The UC system is anticipating an increase in 
systemwide undergraduate enrollment of 2,500 in 2019. In anticipation of a growing student body, 
UCSD has undertaken several construction projects 
to improve campus accessibility, living spaces, and class sizes. The North Torrey Pines Living and 
Learning Community began construction in June 
2018, and is expected to increase on-campus parking 
and create over 2,000 new beds for undergraduate 
students.
Likewise, the school recently partnered with 
the San Diego Metropolitan Transit System to expand the trolley system northward, connecting the university with downtown San Diego and San 
Ysidro. MTS also recently reached an agreement 
to expand service for the 201/202 buses that serve UCSD and the surrounding area.
While the administration is excited for this 
increase in applicants, students do not necessarily have the same opinion. D’ Angelo Duarte, a first-year 
Psychology major from John Muir College, pointed 
out that the school should focus on the current limitations that admitted students face on campus as 
a result of the school’s recent growing pains.
“It is careless for UCSD to be accepting so many 
applicants when there’s already a huge amount of [students] and minimal housing space. [The 
campus] is extremely crowded, and classes are hard to get into, ” Duarte said. “Overall, UCSD 
should be more strict with their application process, 
Black Lives Matter co-founder 
and 2002 UCSD graduate Alicia Garza will give a talk for the winter 
2019 edition of the Marshall Speaker Series on Feb. 26. Garza is expected 
to discuss her perspectives on 
“sparking comprehensive societal change and ending social injustice, 
police brutality and systemic racism in America. ”
Along with Patrisse Cullors 
and Opal Tometi, Garza created 
the Black Lives Matter movement in 2013 following the acquittal of 
George Zimmerman in Florida for 
the murder of African-American teenager Trayvon Martin. The 
phrase “Black Lives Matter” is 
attributed to Garza’s Facebook post in response to the verdict in which 
she stated “Black people. I love you. I love us. Our lives matter, 
Black Lives Matter. ” Garza is also 
responsible for the establishment 
of  Black Lives Matter chapters throughout the country as a result of 
the 2015 Freedom Ride to Ferguson, 
Missouri that she led protesting the police shooting of Michael Brown. 
Since her work founding the 
Black Lives Matter movement, VOLUME 52, ISSUE 15  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 4, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC Regents 
Lose $9 Billion in Investment Assets in One Fiscal Quarter
The losses were attributed to a poor 
U.S. market and bad investment plan.
UCSD
BY madeline leon
staff writer
Marshall Speaker Series to Host Black Lives Matter Founder and Alum
UCSD students protested the unfair treatment of a graduate student with M.S.  UCSD Guardian // Photo by James SongThe UC Regents lost 
approximately $9 billion in 
Investments Assets under 
Management at the end of the fourth quarter of 2018. The UC Regents’ 
Assets under Management dropped 
from $123.1 billion on Sept. 30, to $114.0 billion by Dec. 31 after the 
Endowment of Oakland moved 
about $0.5 billion of its cash into alternative investments throughout 
the third and fourth quarters, with 
60 percent invested in real estate, 20 percent in real assets co-invests, 
and 15 percent in other absolute 
return strategies that did not rely on directionality of markets. 
Before the fourth quarter, the UC 
Regents investment plan consisted of decreasing investments in public 
markets and increasing them in the 
private markets and alternatives in an attempt to diversify the fiscal 
portfolio. Between the third and 
fourth quarters the UC Regents surpassed their private market policy portfolio weight of 12% by 
2.4%, which is an increase in $0.4 
billion. The UC Endowment actually decreased the value of their public 
equity portfolio by 4.4% (or $0.8 
billion), ultimately performing below the policy weight of 42%. 
According to Investopedia, an 
online economic encyclopedia, “generally, public equity investments 
are usually safer than private 
equity. ” This could be due to a greater liquidity for public markets, 
meaning that the portfolio assets are 
more likely to be moved throughout the market through transactions. 
After investing $0.5 million in 
alternative markets, the UC Regents took a $9 billion loss in Assets 
during the fourth quarter of 2018. 
The biggest loss was in the Pension Plan, which decreased by $5 billion 
in the 4th quarter of 2018.  The 
Endowment lost $0.6 billion, the Retirement Saving portfolio lost $2.2 
billion, $0.8 billion was lost in Total 
Return and $0.8 billion was lost in Total Return. Although it is unclear 
how these losses might immediately 
translate into the UC campus funds, the Pension Plan, which controls the 
income given to retired employees, 
might see one of the largest dents in the $9 billion loss.
At the Jan. 15 Regents meeting, 
the board attributed part of the loss to two factors: their investment plan 
made at the end of the third quarter 
and decision to invest in more By jacob sutherland  contributing writerCAMPUS
Number of  Fall 2019 Applications Sets New RecordPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
BEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
 
The Ocean Lovers 
Club strives to make 
a small impact in a 
big way on the issue 
of plastic pollution in 
our oceans. 
HOT  AND  COLD
PEEKS   AND   PREVIEWSONLINE  INFLUENCERS
THE  BEST  OF  FEBRUARY Opinion,  Page   4
LIFESTYLE ,   Page 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE“To keep the door 
closed, figuratively 
and literally, on 
ongoing issues that 
his student body feels 
strongly enough about 
to want to bring to his 
attention directly flies 
in the face of his own 
university’s stance.”MONDAY
 H 62 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 57 L 46
TUESDAY
H 59 L 52
THURSDAY
H 60 L 46
ADMIN SILENCE..............4
SEX EDUCATION..............9
LA JOLLA LOCALS.........11
OUTSIDE EDUCATION...12
M. BASKETBALL............16UC SYSTEM
Tyler Faurot
Administrative Silence
PAGE 4Alicia Garza, who graduated in 2002, is attributed with having coined the slogan for the movement in 2013.
BY  lauren holt
managing editor 
See APPLICATIONS,  page 3THE OCEAN 
LOVER’S CLUB
Features, page 6
See INVESTMENTS,  page 3 See BLM,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
UNDERGROUND SECRETS By Michi Dora
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianFriday, January 25
12:51 p.m. Animal CallDog locked in vehicle at V A Hospital 
under hot weather conditions 
Checks OK
2:00 p.m. Welfare Check
Male subject at Residential Hall threatening to hurt himself Transported to Hospital
3:00 p.m. Bicycle Theft
Biomedical Library, Loss $320 
Online Report
7:06 p.m. Animal CallSeal stranded on rocks at La Jolla 
Cove
Referred to Other Agency7:08 p.m. Citizen ContactFemale saw an unknown subject at 
Central Mesa Apartments taking 
photos of possibly her and her 
roommate 
Report Taken11:33 p.m. Animal CallMouse in bedroom of Matthews 
Apartments
Referred to Other UCSD Department
Saturday, January 26
2:18 a.m. Grand Theft
Reporting party states Lyft driver took 
colleague’s phone Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Police 
3:08 p.m. Drunk in Public
Female who appeared intoxicated 
going into ocean at Beacon’s Beach   
Checks OK10:16 p.m. Disturbance7‐8 subjects seen smoking and 
urinating outside Oceania HallUnable to Locate11:40 p.m. Welfare Check
Group of people seen carrying a girl 
near Latin America Hall
Referred to Student Conduct11:48 p.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting Party feels that he is being targeted after his posters were taken 
down from Mandeville Art Gallery
Service Provided
Sunday, January 27
7:41 a.m. Suicide AttemptStudent having suicidal ideations 
Transported to Hospital
9:13 a.m. Smoke Check
Smoke coming from parking lot along 
Regents Rd.Gone on Arrival
11:45 a.m. Marijuana Contact
Complaint of roommate smoking marijuana in Village East Building 1Service Provided
2:50 p.m. Hazard Situation
Approximately 50 bees in room in 
Douglas Hall
Referred to Other UCSD Department 3:00 p.m. Hazard SituationApproximately 10 bees inside an 
apartment at Brennan Hall
Referred to Other UCSD Department
6:00 p.m. Grand Theft
Unknown suspect(s) took nitrogen tank from Urey Hall, loss $1,500 
Report Taken
10:43 p.m. Welfare CheckReporting party concerned for a subject in Goldberg Hall who is 
having a panic attack and has a 
history of depression and narcotic use 
Field Interview
Monday, January 28
1:22 a.m. Outside Agency Assist
Assisted San Diego Police Officer with 
arrest of combative female at Nobel Dr.
Report Taken
7:12 p.m. Suspicious Persons
Voices heard on 3rd floor of Pepper Canyon Hall, area should be empty 
Checks OK7:32 p.m. Chemical Spill
Bromobenzotrifluoride spilled on the 
floor at Pacific Hall
Referred to Other UCSD Department
11:52 p.m. Suspicious PersonRoommate’s ex ‐boyfriend ringing 
doorbell at Village East 1 
Unable to Locate
Tuesday, January 29
7:30 a.m. FraudStudent at 3869 Miramar Street paid 
large sum of money to unknown 
suspect, in response to fraudulent for rent Craigslist ad Report Taken
10:30 a.m. Grand Theft - Bicycle
200 W Arbor Drive, Loss $2000 
Report Taken
11:36 a.m. Animal CallDog in crate, inside a vehicle with windows rolled up at Campus Point 
Parking Structure
Field Interview
5:00 p.m. Petty Theft - Bicycle
Center Hall, Loss $340 Report Taken
Wednesday, Januar y 30
9:30 a.m. Petty Theft - BicycleTaken from Pines Dining Hall, Loss 
$200 
Online Report
9:32 a.m. DisturbanceReporting party’s debit card taken near Gliderport hiking trail by unknown males 
Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego 
Police Department 
11:26 a.m. Disturbance
Reporting party advised she was 
pushed by male at Genesee Ave.
Referred to Other Agency ‐ San Diego Police Department
12:20 p.m. FraudUnknown subject(s) fraudulently used 
victim’s credit card in La Jolla
Information Only
10:22 p.m. Suspicious Person
Subject drinking alcohol inside Biomedical Library Stay Away Order Issued
11:13 p.m. Welfare Check
Reporting party’s roommate 
threatening suicide via text message 
Unable to Locate
Thursday, January 31
9:56 a.m. Citizen ContactPossible hit and run at Lot 752, reporting party tried calling number 
left on note, but no answer 
Referred to Other UCSD Department 
‐ Thornton Hospital Security
10:26 a.m. InjurySubject fell off skateboard and injured ankle at Urey Hall, medical 
transportation declined 
Checks Ok
10:53 a.m. Person Down
Older female possibly unconscious inside vehicle at I-5 / Genesee
Referred to Other Agency ‐ California 
Highway Patrol
3:05 p.m. Property DamageSkateboarder lost control and 
shattered main entrance window at 
Geisel Library, damage $4,000 
Report Taken
—  Tyler Faurot
News Editor Lights & SirensLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
UwU
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Tyler Faurot
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Madeline Park
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Lisa  ChikEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Co-Editors
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMultimedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Rani Snankar
Business Manager
Suzan Diricco  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Rowena Ma
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 private markets, as well as what UC 
Regents Chief Investment Officer 
Jagdeep Singh Bachher ascribes as 
“choppy markets” when the U.S. stock market plunged in November 
and December of last year. 
“At  c e r t a i n  p o i n t s  i n  t h e  y e a r,  
our cash balance may have gone up to as much as 12 percent or so, ” 
Bachher stated at the meeting. “ As the year proceeded, we brought that 
down, looking at the overall liquidity 
position, in and around 5 percent. We also had a pipeline of private 
market opportunities that, in the last 
two quarters of the year, got fulfilled, and as a result, capital was called. ”
Senior Manager Director of Absolute Return Edmond Fong, who handles how much the financial 
portfolio earns or loses in accordance 
with an investment stated,“We have been talking about our desire to 
remain opportunistic, but also at 
the same time we were concerned that this growth risk factor was so 
dominant in our portfolios that we 
also wanted to diversify as well. ”
Although Fong stated that the 
Endowment is “now ahead of its target schedule” in private equity investments and predicts a two-
to-three percent cash cushion 
due to inbound capital from FFE’s (furnitures, fixtures, and 
equipments), this may change due to volatility in the markets. Between 
the third and fourth quarter, the 
UC Endowment increased its value 
in alternative investments such as absolute return, private equity, real 
estate and real assets, but decreased 
its position in public equity.  
The board also points toward 
the US economy in November and the recent government shutdown in December as major contributing 
factors for the loss at the end of the 
fourth quarter. 
Furthermore, UCOP Chief 
Risk Officer and Senior Managing Director Richard Bookstaber associates these risks of volatility 
with three factors, including uncertainties in the markets relating 
to technology, demographics of the 
labor force and climate change. 
The UC Regents sees a reduction 
in Investment Performance. “If you fast forward and we do the math 
on all the negative returns in the stock market and the bond market, 
essentially, what you’ll see is fiscal 
year to date are all in the negative territory… about negative 2.5 to 4.5 
in the Pension Plan, ” Baccher stated.
Endowment Managing Director 
Ronnie Swinkel also sees a change in the Endowment’s holdings. “We 
expect to be down about 12%...The main reason for that is the 
significant underweight for the exposure to emerging markets. ”
According to the online 
financial newspaper that chronicles 
investments, Pensions and Investments, “ As of Dec. 30, the 
endowment’s allocation was 38.6% 
public equity, 22.4% absolute return, 14.2% liquidity, 13.3% private equity, 
7% real estate, 4.2% real assets and 
0.4% cash. ”
The UCOP declined to comment 
on how these losses will affect university campus funds. NEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
UCSD Has Struggled with Overadmittance Before
The UCOP Risk Officer and Senior Managing Directed Considers Climate Change a Factor of  the Recent InvolatilityAnderson: Garza’s Advocacy Fits the Activist Focus of  Marshall College
▶ APPLICATIONS , from page 1
▶ INVESTMENTS , from page 1▶ BLM , from page 1
admitting students at a capped limit 
until the campus can fully provide 
all (current) students with adequate 
resources. ”
In an interview about 2018’s 
high number of applicants with the San Diego Union-Tribune, Khosla remarked that UCSD had not been 
prepared for such a high number of applicants. 
“We weren’t expecting it, ” Khosla 
said last year. “We need to be a little 
more measured and controlled. ”
UCSD is not alone in having 
problems with over admittance. UCLA and UC Berkeley have reached their maximum capacities 
at 44,947 and 41,910 students, 
respectively. The UC Board of Regents argues that increasing the 
percentage of undergrad students who complete their degrees in four 
years or less from two-thirds to 
76 percent by 2030 will alleviate 
some of the growing pains many campuses face.
In November 2018, the Regents 
met to approve a new budget that 
will increase accessibility to the UC system at large and discussed 
plans to lobby the state legislature 
to let students apply Cal Grants to 
summer courses.Garza has continued her advocacy and activism through many 
interviews, articles, and acts of 
protest and is currently serving as the Special Projects Director for 
the National Domestic Workers 
Alliance. Identifying as a queer woman, Garza incorporates her 
sexuality and gender into her vision and ideas: “In order to truly 
understand how devastating and 
widespread this type of violence 
is in Black America, we must view this epidemic through of a lens of 
race, gender, sexual orientation and 
gender identity. ” 
In addition to her activism 
fighting oppression and violence against Black Americans, Garza organizes for rights for domestic 
workers and students and issues of health.
Dean of Thurgood Marshall 
College Bernard Anderson stated 
that Garza’s work is a reflection of the values promoted by Marshall 
College, which coordinates the 
Marshall Speaker Series.
“It’s an understatement to say 
that we’re thrilled to welcome Alicia 
Garza back to her UC San Diego 
home, ” Anderson told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Thurgood Marshall 
College’s grassroots legacy is firmly rooted in activism and social change, 
and I know that Alicia will inspire 
us with her presence and vision. Her courageous and tireless efforts in 
stemming the tide of social injustice 
and combating systemic racism will no doubt solidify her place in the 
pantheon of revered civil rights activists and visionaries. ”
The Marshall Speaker Series 
hosts a talk every quarter by an 
accomplished individual who embodies the college’s philosophy of 
creating a “more just society. ” Past 
speakers include the son of Thurgood Marshall, former executive editor of 
the New York Times Bill Keller, and Nobel Laureates Derek Wolcott and 
Wole Soyinka.
The event featuring Garza will 
be held in the Price Center West 
Ballroom from 5:00-6:30 p.m.. No 
admission fee will be charged, but 
attendees must register in advance through Eventbrite. 
Jacob Sutherland  jasuth@ucsd.edu Lauren Hol t  lcholt@ucsd.edu
madeline leon  m7leon@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Adriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Hot and Cold:
Are social media in fluencers toxic for their followers?
Administrative Silence Undermines Student Activism#instagreat Insta-Famous, more like Insta-Fraud
Rather than being a source of toxicity, most influencers create a positive 
online environment for their followers.
 One critique of influencers is that brand deals lead to followers 
being manipulated into buying unnecessary products and services. 
However, many influencers only choose to endorse companies they themselves use. Furthermore, in the few cases when this does not happen, 
followers are able to tell whether or not the influencer is genuine in 
their endorsement. A study from the Center for Management Studies at Jain University found that followers tend to view the credibility of an influencer’s opinion based on their regular content’s quality rather than their popularity. This suggests that, even though influencers are paid for these ads, their overall authenticity is what ultimately affects the reception of brand deals.
 Another critique of influencers is that they promote unattainable 
beauty standards and lifestyles. While some do promote a hyper idealized version of themselves, many influencers serve as positive role models to their followers, because they promote either healthy lifestyles, self 
love, or relatability. Likewise, just because some influencers promote 
toxicity does not mean that their actions are representative of the entire influencer community. Many popular health and wellness accounts, like @diaryofafitmommyofficial, allow followers to engage with them on their journey towards a healthier lifestyle, without the use of photoshop. Conversely, influencers without an initial mainstream appeal, like @trishapaytas or @bretmanrock, often gain a following before becoming famous because of their relatability. People turn to influencers not only for the quality of their content, but also for the content of their character.
The influencer community has proven itself to not be a source of toxicity 
because authentic accounts provide honest opinions through brand deals and because many influencers distinguish themselves from toxic accounts through their promotion of healthy lifestyles, self love, and relatability.
UC San Diego prides itself as being a world class 
university, more than just a leading research institution. As 
the now second-most populous campus in the UC system, UCSD is tasked with fostering civic engagement within its ever-growing student body. In this pursuit, the school’s own websites and public statements assert that an open exchange of ideas, however radical or unsavory, is necessary. If not 
just to openly criticize and evaluate certain worldviews, this 
should serve to encourage civic engagement in its student body, an important staple in every healthy democracy. 
 At least, that’s what it says in writing. In practice, 
Chancellor Khosla has left something to be desired.
Just this past year, student Savanah Lyon launched a 
petition to remove a class on the works of filmmaker and alleged pedophile Woody Allen from the school’s catalogue. The petition gathered more than ten thousand signatures. 
There were no flipped cars, there were no broken windows. 
Lyon went about the matter in an objectively civil manner. Khosla very bluntly weighed in on the matter when he told the San Diego Union Tribune, “I would have told her to move on and get out of my classroom..I get to teach in my class.” While this may not have been the reaction or result 
that Lyon and the students who signed the petition had 
hoped for, it was, at the very least, an acknowledgement of students engaging with and exercising civil discourse. It was a two way street with institutional acknowledgment.
 Fast forward to just this past December, when a 
coalition of student workers marched to the Chancellor’s office to deliver a list of demands to Khosla’s desk. The group was met with a locked door. He made no statement on While instagram influencers have a platform from which they can do 
good, the way that a majority of influencers choose to portray themselves 
and their content harms their followers, whether they like it or not. 
Instagram influencers are toxic for their followers because they idealize 
themselves and their lives — due to simple human nature Instagram influencers are prone to showing only the beauty and glamour of their 
lives. Portraying an idealized lifestyle and/or standard of beauty harms 
their followers body image and mental state as a result. In a 2017 study published in Computers in Human Behavior, researchers reaffirmed that individuals put forward photos that make them look the most physically attractive. Further, the study found that viewing users idealized photos caused viewers to feel a stronger desire for socially sought after beauty characteristics, feel negative feelings post-viewing, and overall feel worse about their bodies. Essentially, while influencers preach body positivity and healthy living among other things, this does not seem to be their followers’ key take-aways. 
Critics are correct to realize these results apply to any attractive Instagram 
content. However, instagram influencers are known for disproportionate use of editing software like facetune, use of plastic surgery, and more. Hence, influencers play more into negative body fads than the average instagram user. 
Additionally, while some people claim that instagram influencers 
make a positive difference because they have a strong relationship with their followers and are followed for their personalities as opposed to attractiveness, research shows this doesn’t negate the previous results. For example, a study from Psychologists at Australia’s Flinders University, demonstrated that the more individuals “worshipped”, i.e role-modelitized, the celebrity whose photo they were viewing, the more the content made them feel inadequate with their physical appearance. 
Instagram influencer culture needs to change, not be creating more 
“role models”. 
Jacob Sutherland   jasuther@ucsd.edu Geena Roberts   G1robert@ucsd.eduby Jacob Sutherland // Senior Staff Writer
by Tyler Faurot // Contributing Writerby Geena Roberts // Senior Staff Writer
See ACTIVISM, page 3OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
the matter.
Khosla’s silence seems all the more jarring considering 
UCSD’s own claim that “while at times the exchange of 
controversial ideas and opinions may be distressing to 
our community members, it is important to recognize that 
the university acts as a home for diverse and sometimes 
contradictory ideas and opinions.” 
In the past, Khosla has come out in plain words to address 
the concerns of students on his campus. To keep the door 
closed, figuratively and literally, on ongoing issues that his student body feels strongly enough about to want to bring to his attention directly flies in the face of his own university’s 
stance. If he and his colleagues truly believe that an open 
discourse of ideas, to bring them out into the open for analysis and critique, is a valuable example to set for a civil student body, he himself should be engaged in a dialogue in which his own words can be analyzed and critiqued. Stonewalling 
a discussion by not engaging in it is antithetical to the 
university’s written values.
If all he did was acknowledge that he had considered the 
workers’ concerns, that would still be better than nothing. By not allowing the concerns of his student body to have their moment in the sun, it lowers the efficacy and delegitimizes 
this idea of engaging in a civil discourse.  
healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.eduAS PRESENTS:
AN OVERVIEW OF THE UC BUDGET
Light Dinner will be provided.FEBRUARY 12
5 - 7:30pm • PC TheatreRepresentatives from UC Office of the President as well as campus 
CFO Pierre Oillet will present on the University of California 
systemwide budget as well as where money goes on our own campus.
RASPBERRY PI   
By System 32
Tyler faurot   news@ucsdguardian.org▶ ACTIVISM , from page 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITORS
MADELINE PARK & JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
For the dedicated members of the Ocean Lovers Club at UC 
San Diego, Saturday mornings are for beach clean-up. They dot 
the sand around La Jolla Shores, reusable canvas bags and gloves in hand. They bend to pick up stray bottle caps and scoop up the endless, tiny pieces of plastic that wash up onto the dunes of the wet sand.
The amount of plastic is rather astonishing. A glimpse at the 
glittering waves of La Jolla Shores and its pristine sand doesn’t capture the amounts of littered plastic it truly holds. A closer look at the sand reveals the plastic pollution that we hear about on the news but often don’t recognize. The beach clean-ups are meant to open the eyes of students who care about keeping their oceans clean, as well as to contribute to solving the problem itself, however small the contribution may be. 
Alexis Durham, the 
president of the club and an Eleanor Roosevelt College senior majoring in social psychology, describes how most newcomers to the beach clean-ups are struck by how tiny the pieces of plastic are. As bigger pieces of plastic are broken down by water and sun over time, they become harder and harder to eliminate.
“I like beach clean-up because you can talk all you want about 
conservation and making a change, but to actually go forth and give people an outlet where they can participate, I think that’s my favorite, ” Durham said. “I think just one individual person makes a big enough difference. There’s like ten people here, and we all have our own trash bags. That’s how much less trash is going to be out in the ecosystem. ”
Lucille Bell, a Thurgood Marshall College junior majoring in 
visual arts, appreciates the hands-on nature of the beach clean-up. As she bends down to sort through the minute pieces of plastic in the wet sand, she describes how cleaning up beaches inspires her to adapt her lifestyle to a more waste-free approach.“Beach clean-ups are one of the ways we can reduce our 
impact or take back what we’ve already done, ” Bell said. “It’s not exactly the most fun activity to do on a weekend, but it reminds you of how important it is to reduce your plastic use. [In] your day-to-day [life] at school, you forget how important it is. And then you see all the plastic on the beach, and you realize you have to clean it up. ”
The Ocean Lovers Club first took shape when Jack Shurtz, a 
Sixth College senior majoring in marine biology, met Durham, and the two of them decided to use their passions for their environment to form a group focused on ocean conservation. 
“We both talked 
about how we wanted to start a club that would connect not only marine biology students but people who care about marine science and keeping the oceans healthy,” Shurtz said. “We also thought it would be cool to be able to organize those who want to do beach clean-ups but don’t have people to do it with. ”
Since then, the 
Ocean Lovers Club has added a number 
of other events to their activities. Bell describes a personal favorite where a professor taught the group about the prevalence and harmfulness of microplastics.
“There’s actually so much more plastic than we can see with 
just our eyes. It’s in the sand, the water, and it leaks into our water systems and food through irrigation. Microplastics are a huge issue, ” Bell said. “We see the pictures of animals who eat plastic in the ocean, but no one has ever looked at a human stomach and seen how much plastic is in us. ”
Shurtz was in charge of arranging a research expo last quarter, 
inviting professors, graduate students and researchers well-
“There’s actually so much more 
plastic than we can see with just our 
eyes. It’s in the sand, the water, and it 
leaks into our water systems and food 
through irrigation. Microplastics are 
a huge issue, ” Bell said. “We see the 
pictures of animals who eat plastic in 
the ocean, but no one has ever looked 
at a human stomach and seen how 
much plastic is in us. ” 
The  Ocean 
Lovers  Club 
and  Their 
Mission  to 
Clean  Up  The 
Oceans
The Ocean Lovers 
Club strives to 
make a small impact in a big way on the issue of plastic pollution in our oceans.
By Charlotte Armstrong // Senior Sta ff 
Writer
SeeOCEAN LOVERS , page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
versed in marine biology, environmental studies and the like to speak to students about their work and how they can make a difference. It’s 
particularly important to Shurtz that those researchers come from a wide variety of fields, and that they’re knowledgeable about applicable, 
real-world environmental issues.
“T alking about microbes in the ocean and their chemical processes of breaking down seaweed isn’t necessarily interesting or applicable 
for most people, ” Shurtz said. “But we had a researcher last quarter who talked about the science behind plastic and whether we are able 
to find out how harmful it actually is. This coming quarter, we’re going to have someone who studies water in California talking about California fires, which is extremely applicable. ”
The Ocean Lovers Club members feel they are contributing to both a national and worldwide issue — even if they’re starting at the local 
level. All of them have ideas about how to reduce waste and protect the planet’s oceans. Bell thinks that though often much blame is placed on the consumer, it is the big-time corporations which create the most waste and force their customers to do the same.
“If there’s more incentive for corporations to reduce their plastic or carbon emissions, it could be easier for everyone to live more 
sustainably. There needs to be a third-party regulator to encourage sustainability and punishment if you’re not sustainable, ” Bell said. “There’ s the argument that stopping oil will mean a loss of jobs, but you can easily replace those jobs with solar or wind energy. ”
Durham concurs. For her, plastic food packaging is one of the main problems in the amount of waste the average American creates 
each and every day.
“Food packaging does not need to be as intense — you can buy something in a box in a plastic sleeve, and then everything in that plastic 
sleeve is still individually wrapped — we don’t need to do that, ” Durham said. “Turning more to paper-based products might make it a little easier to transition. Then from paper-based to glass or reusable materials, but that’ll be a slow transition. ”
The members of the club have varying opinions about how UCSD is doing in their pursuit of a sustainable campus. Bell commends 
HDH for offering reusable containers and utensils, and for stopping the distribution of plastic straws. But she thinks there is much work to be done, especially at the Oceanview Terrace dining hall, where there are no reusable dish options. She recommends students speak up about the issue to the UCSD Inter-Sustainability Council, of which the Ocean Lovers Club is a part.
“OVT has all-plastic, and everything is disposable. When you get your food, there’s no ‘for here’ option. A lot of student voices need 
to be heard so there is that change, ” Bell said. “The Inter-Sustainability Council is a group on campus that does a lot of listening to what students have to say. And they have a lot of resources within faculty and administration who can actually make the changes that we want ... happen. It’s just a matter of talking to them and having good reason. ”
Shurtz agrees that the Inter-Sustainability Council holds a lot of potential to promote change at UCSD.“Going to their meetings, you can see that there are clubs that are trying to enact programs on campus with the main goal of reducing 
waste, reducing plastic use, and promoting sustainability to college students, ” Shurtz said. “Usually, the last thing on students’ minds is sustainability. But if you have programs that make it easy for them, you can do a lot of good. UCSD as a whole is getting better at it, and the Inter-Sustainability Council is leading the way. ”
Though she admires the passion of the groups on the Inter-Sustainability Council, Durham thinks there is much more that needs to be 
done at UCSD, also citing the issue of plastic usage at Oceanview Terrace. She points out that the decisions the university is making as a company do not always line up with the sustainable goals they have for themselves. 
“Each restaurant has their own water station with plastic cups when [there are] water fountains in the building. There’s no need for that. 
Audrey’s just started offering plastic cups when they’re 10 feet away from a water fountain in the library, ” Durham said. “ As a sustainability org, a lot of us are having problems trying to fight back. We felt like we just got ahead and now we’re two steps back because of the university. ”
Shurtz encourages students to do all they can locally to help reduce waste and plastic usage, as plastic pollution in the ocean is a problem 
which affects each and every world citizen. As plastic is broken down into smaller and smaller pieces, it makes its way into the stomachs of sea life, harming or even killing them. The consequences extend to life out of the ocean as well. Humans eat the seafood that has ingested the plastic they’ve polluted, potentially harming their own health as well.
“The oceans filling up with plastic is an international problem that we all share. Whether trash dumped in America ends up somewhere 
else, it’s still something that makes its way into seafood that we all eat internationally, ” Shurtz said. “There’s only so much you can do in terms of talking to your representation throughout the country to let the government know that we want changes in terms of how much fossil fuels are being turned into plastics. But it is also a local issue, and I think we’re contributing to that. ”
Durham also thinks that the way to make a change is to start with students. The strategy might be to start small, but it nonetheless 
makes a big difference. She uses her own coffee mug to get coffee two times a day and points out that she would produce much more waste if she used a disposable cup. Furthermore, she emphasizes the fact that students underestimate the powers their voices have at initiating change on the UCSD campus.▶ OCEAN LOVERS , from page 6
Charlotte Armstrong    c1armstr@ucsd.edu
Want  to  get  involved  with  student  
journalism?  our applications  are  
always  open  at  ucsdguardian.orgA&E EDITORS // DAISY SCOTT & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
On a cool Saturday night, hundreds 
of people lined up outside The Observatory North Park for a 
concert featuring the dynamic electronic-dance singer Nao. With the help of her opener, Xavier Omär, she was continuing the “Saturn” tour while making a stop in San Diego. Fans 
anxiously waited, discussing which songs they 
could not wait to hear live. The atmosphere was inviting and warm, a contrast to the cold January night. 
 As the crowds poured into the 
venue, Omär hit the stage as soon as he could. Omär, a rhythm and blues singer best known for his songs “ Afraid” and “Blind Man, ” delivered a wonderful opening set. 
With a limited set design, he was vocally 
spectacular and engaged impressively with the crowd. Despite being the opener for the more anticipated Nao, it was apparent that the two artists shared many fans. Omär prompted the crowd with the question, “Who has seen me in concert before?” to which a strong amount of individuals quickly screamed with 
admiration.  
The peak of Omär’s performance was his 
performance of “Blind Man. ” Not only were 
his vocals formidable, but also the audience’s 
passion shone and made clear just how 
appreciated he was. Within the crowd, the 
lyrics echoed with a sort of emotion that 
would be considered rather strange for an 
opening act. If the event was observed with no prior knowledge, one would think Omär to be the main event. To the dismay of the crowd, his set ran shorter than expected. However, his charisma and charming vocals 
left their impact on the night, establishing 
an environment in which the crowd was comfortable and open to interacting with the music.
When Omär exited the stage, the lights cut and the anticipation for Nao quickly built. After about 15 minutes she hit the stage, revealing a beautiful set design. With her name in neon lights, the backdrop was layered with balloon-like figures that crafted 
a pleasing aura reminiscent of her “Saturn” 
album cover. The ambience established by the 
visuals set the tone for the superb performance 
that ensued. 
 Nao herself was draped in a 
glimmering green dress that paralleled her charming charisma. With a full band accompanying her, Nao performed hit songs 
such as “Bad Blood, ” “Girlfriend, ” and “Fool 
to Love. ” What was particularly exciting about 
the show was how well executed the entire 
set was, providing much more than just the 
outstanding vocals. With nothing more than 
a green fan and the lighting team creating a silhouette of Nao, the artist struck several poses as she performed her song “ Adore You” to the enjoyment of all in attendance. She then proceeded to hand out glowing white balloons 
to the crowd, crafting a sea of scattered orbs. 
The entire scene was planned to perfection. 
When performing a rendition of her piece 
“Love Supreme, ” Nao allowed her band behind 
her to truly shine. As her guitarist executed a 
lovely guitar solo, Nao exited stage right to give him time in the limelight. 
 Ultimately, the performance built to 
its climax as the visual team and Nao’s vocal performance made for a spectacular rendition of “Girlfriend. ” With each beat drop, the stage illuminated and Nao reached pitches that 
would impress the most haughty analyst. Prior 
to exiting the stage, Nao made sure to thank all those in attendance and prompted applause for her talented band. 
 To no surprise, the crowd chanted 
for an encore, filling the Observatory with chants of “One more song! One more song!” Nao came out and performed “Bad Blood” once again, as well as “Firefly. ” Even as the 
night neared its close, the crowd’s energy was 
at an all-time high, with no one standing still, everyone belting out the lyrics to the best of their ability and simply being immersed in the music. 
 Nao’s performance was one to be 
remembered. Regardless of how devoted of a fan anyone in the venue may have been, it felt as though there was a community to be found. 
From the opener to the chants of encore, the 
crowd was engaged and welcoming, much to the credit of both performers. Nao’s visuals, vocal performance, and charisma remain unparalleled. 
— Matthew Rudas
Staff WriterNao continued her “Saturn” tour in San Diego, delivering a spectacular performance for an abundance of 
adoring fans.
CONCERT   REVIEW
ALBUM   REVIEW
Location  The Observatory North Park
Concert Date   January 19, 2019NAOPHOTO COURTESY OF EVENING STANDARD
CA
Recently on “Saturday Night Live” was a sketch starring Leslie Jones and Matt Damon. 
The two portrayed Weezer fans, but one was a self-proclaimed purist (a fan of the older albums like the “Blue Album” and “Pinkerton”), the other a “real” fan (a fan of all the 
band’s music, including its contentious recent releases). As embodiments of the two halves of Weezer’s current fanbase, how would either character feel about the band’s latest self-titled release, also known as the “Teal Album”?
Dropped online without warning on Jan. 23, the “Teal Album” is a cover album of 10 hit songs 
primarily from the ’80s. It features a good selection of songs, such as “Billie Jean, ” “Everybody 
Wants to Rule the World, ” “Take On Me, ” and “Sweet Dreams (Are Made Of This). ” But why 
covers?
It all started with Twitter account @weezerafrica launching a campaign in Dec. 2017 for the 
band to cover Toto’s “ Africa. ” Weezer, with its proclivity to be involved in the internet’s memes (just look at its music video for “Pork and Beans”), responded in May 2018. If you’ve listened 
to the radio or sat in a dining hall recently, you’ve probably heard Weezer’s cover of “ Africa. ” 
Listening to it can be startling at first, but you may realize that it’s strangely not that bad. The “Teal Album” goes a step further to make you admit, “Hey, this is actually pretty good” — as far as covers for famous songs go, at least.
The names of the songs on the tracklist are enough to make anyone wonder how Weezer 
sounds covering songs like TLC’s “No Scrubs” and hit “play” out of sheer curiosity. The answer is, surprisingly well. There’s something for everyone. For the Weezer purist, the appearance of crunchy electric guitars and heavy drum beats is very much welcome. For the “real” fan, these 
songs are  much like the band’s goofy, poppy style of recent albums. For the unacquainted, it’s 
half an hour of some serviceable covers of well-known songs.
Listening to the songs, it’s surprising to hear the effort the band has put into an album 
that received no marketing prior to its release. While the album is clearly not something that required endless hours of recording and editing (I mean, they’re covers), it also doesn’t sound like a production-rushed jumble of songs. The songs work thanks to the band’s experienced instrumentation and lead singer Rivers Cuomo’s flexible voice, which fits well with both pop and rock. As a result, stand-out tracks from the album that are worthy tributes to the originals 
include “Mr. Blue Sky” and “Happy Together. ”
Admittedly, there’s little reason to listen to these songs over the originals other than the 
fact that they’re covered by Weezer, which could either be a selling point or a deterrent for the 
public. No, the covers don’t meet, never mind surpass, the originals, and they don’t offer any real creative spin to them. The effect is a watered-down, cleaned-up version of the original songs 
that, save for your personal favorites, you ultimately can’t relisten to more than a few times. But 
they’re more than competent enough and ultimately a harmless listen.
Still, the album’s silly yet respectable vibe makes it so that it sounds like a professional version 
of a group of friends singing in the car. And unlike the band’s previous releases, which lean a little too hard on the crutch of their pop influences, the “Teal Album” actually feels refreshing 
to listen to. With its synth keyboards and groovy guitar riffs, the “Teal Album” is genuinely fun 
even though it’s nothing technically new. 
To some extent, it may be a cash grab or a marketing move to build anticipation for the band’s 
long-awaited “Black Album, ” out March 1, but nonetheless, the “Teal Album” is a surprisingly 
welcome addition to the band’s discography. While critiques of Weezer straying from its roots 
remain reasonable, it’s frankly admirable watching a band— one that for the last several years has become a punching bag for critics and older fans— disregard the notion of maintaining a preconceived image that would meet its fans’ expectations. Weezer’s comeback may still be in 
the works, but listening to Weezer jam to Ben E. King’s “Stand By Me” makes the wait a little 
more enjoyable.
—  Natalie Tran
 Senior Staff Writer
Weezer  (Teal  Album) by  Weezer
Release Date  January 23, 2019
A Weezer/’80s hits crossover. Sweet dreams really are made of this.BA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
EARN A MASTER’S IN 
BUSINESS ANALYTICS IN 
10 months.
Netflix hooks viewers up with a new series, “Sex Education,” that embraces the awkwardness of teenage relationships.
When it comes to sex talk, the new 
Netflix series “Sex Education” hits the G-spot in delivering a charming 
coming-of-age dramedy on a taboo subject. Its first season is just an introduction to the narrative, but the misfit characters and their ubiquitous naivete over sexual experiences is so comically 
realistic and relatable, it will make millennials 
wish the show had been released sooner. 
The show features Otis (Asa Butterfield), a 
nerdy teen who becomes the school’s unofficial sex therapist through his surprising expertise 
on love and intimacy despite, ironically, being a 
virgin. Otis is accustomed to his peers’ hilariously awkward and racy issues, as his mother (Gillian Anderson) is a professional sex guru, unafraid of 
explicit conversations and casual genitalia home 
decor. So, when social pariah and bad-girl Maeve Wiley (Emma Mackey) spots Otis’ counseling potential, the two start a business in advising on their classmates’ sexual issues while capitalizing 
on their sexual repressions and inexperience.
Although the story takes place in England, 
the backdrop of “Sex Education” curiously feels 
aesthetically American. The characters chat by 
their lockers, sport the school’s varsity jackets, 
hang in cliques, and plan upcoming school dances, which are all stereotypically within American high school culture. The humor also doesn’t feel “British, ” which usually caters to cynicism or sarcasm. Rather there are rosier moments that allude to John Hughes’ films’ light-
hearted humor. Subsequently, the show feels like 
it takes place in a zeitgeisty ‘80s even though it’s set in the modern day. The wardrobe is colorful and oversized, and the soundtrack is nostalgic, 
vibing a throwback, vintage spirit. 
With a bizarre plan in motion, the characters 
also begin to display their endearingly amusing 
natures. The actors themselves all fit into their characters like gloves, which heightens the 
authenticity of their performances. Otis’ mousy 
and gawky traits are incredibly comical in flustering situations, which happens frequently considering the show’s premise. Eric Effiong 
(Ncuti Gatwa), Otis’ best friend, is especially 
a scene stealer with his ebullient attitude and witty remarks, often generating great rapport and camaraderie between the buddy-buddy duo. Maeve becomes the brains of the group with 
her sharp-tongued, edgy sense of humor. Even 
Otis’ mother, Dr. Jean Milburn, is facetious, with her hip and brazen youth. Other zany side characters include Aimee Gibbs (Aimee Lou 
Wood), a popular airhead in a “Mean Girls”-
esque squad, and Lily Iglehart (Tanya Reynolds), a geeky clarinet player who writes alien erotica. Well-timed and well-executed, the comedy and the weirdos of the show are worth the watch.  
Now, with a title like “Sex Education, ” how 
accurate is the show’s discourse on the birds 
and the bees? Well, the series is no instruction 
manual. It doesn’t get clinical or technical with coitus. Though there are certainly moments that surround intercourse and romantic pursuits, the 
show primarily centers on the characters’ mental 
and emotional depth, concentrating on concepts of self-doubt, self-discovery, self-hate, and self-love. Interestingly, many of the young characters are initially neurotic about their sex lives, but 
the crux of their problems or solutions are rarely 
about sexual relations. The general topic of “sex” is used to segue into these characters’ true underlying struggles of teen-hood: wanting to 
fit in with the crowd and looking desperately for 
others’ approval. The show shares a raw insight of juvenescence, rife with failures and feats.
“Sex Education” explores individualism, and 
it does so further by seamlessly delving into 
the bigger political matters, like feminism and 
sexuality, that weave into the characters’ identities. At first, each character seems to be pigeonholed into a typical character trope, but the show 
subverts that by fleshing out three-dimensional 
personalities and compelling journeys. Eric’s open homosexuality and Maeve’s unwavering feminist ideology are empowering. There is also a heart-wrenching scene about abortion that has turned into a memorable and well-handled subplot, cautious to not overstep boundaries and 
being quite diplomatic to people’s sensitivities. 
The series is careful not to get preachy, so anyone watching is eased into the perspective of these communities and feel a sense of empathy. We see 
that some characteristics and ethics are significant 
parts of these individuals, but they are not wholly defined by those qualities. This allows viewers to have a more nuanced understanding of these characters that help them arrive at the bigger 
picture — that at their cores, these wide-eyed and 
anxious youngsters are learning to navigate the entangled ropes of the world.  
“Sex Education” approaches its main topic 
of sexuality with an open-minded (and open-legged) sensibility, but it is also doesn’t shy away from being silly. Its honest take on the perplexity of adolescence, replete with sexual insecurities and delicate matters, is refreshing. All in all, it’s 
a fun and sentimental series, one that audiences 
can binge with an apt “Netflix and Chill. ”
—  Ashley  Chen 
Senior Staff Writer
TV   REVIEW
Sex  Education
PHOTO COURTESY OF TIME.COM
Created by   Lauren Nunn
Starring  Asa Butter field, Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa, Emma Mackey, Connor Swindells
Airing   January 11, 2019 on NetflixCa10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Typically, when one thinks about passion and love this time of year, those thoughts are 
associated with finding a significant other. I, however, like to think that there are many 
different types of love that are often overshadowed by romance and can be focused on 
hobbies and other interests. People who are passionate about what they do have always 
inspired me, so I decided to focus on some local businesses in La Jolla that are run by 
people who love what they do.
One sunny afternoon, as I was walking around downtown La Jolla with my friend 
Nia, we came across the Nautical History Gallery & Museum. The small storefront’s door 
is decorated with different types of knots and an old-fashioned bell to get the attention 
of the owner, Joe Frangiosa Jr., so he can welcome you to his museum. As you enter his workshop, you suddenly find yourself walking through a time capsule full of antiques and 
intricate, handmade ship models from the 1800s to World War II. I couldn’t help but be 
reminded of the “I Spy” books that I cherished as a child when looking at the collection of 
U.S. Navy antiques. It seemed that Joe had everything from cannonballs to coffee pots in 
his quaint museum, as well as stories and the memories behind each piece.
After that incredible experience, I had to go back and find out more about the man 
who created such a unique and awe-inspiring experience. Joe has always been intrigued 
with building things that are more complicated than your average Lego set. “ As a kid, my 
first model was when I took door hinges off a dollhouse and attached them to the hood of a toy car, so it was more realistic, ” he said. 
Since then, Joe has always enjoyed drawing and sketching out designs for things. He 
served four years in the Navy followed by 16 years in the Marine Corps as a helicopter 
pilot. While serving his country, Joe would find himself researching different ships and 
designing smaller models. “I didn’t realize it at the time, but it was a form of therapy for 
me: a way for me to remember my service but also to relax, ” he said.  
One of the most interesting parts of the Nautical History Gallery & Museum is the 
incredible amount of effort that goes into the models. It starts with a lot of research and sketches that Joe does himself. Then, he builds a wooden frame to get the basic shape of 
his models started and slowly replaces those placeholder pieces with more accurate and 
durable ones over the course of six months to ensure it is as authentic as possible. What 
I like best about this process is that where I would see shoe anklets and door knobs, Joe 
sees portholes and helms. He turns odds and ends from hardware and crafts stores into a 
unique mini-model of history. 
There is also Joe’s extensive collection of U.S. naval memorabilia. After his service, 
Joe started collecting pieces of U.S. Navy history to share his appreciation of the past 
with others. Some pieces include a bayonet that’s almost 6 feet long and small airplanes. 
Through this collection, you can also see how many pieces evolve over time. Joe’s favorite pieces that have evolved are the hats. His prized piece is a Prussian-era helmet from the 
1800s that took him over two years to find. As you look around the room, you can see 
different styles of hat, like the po’ boy and traditional sailor caps, as well as more modern 
ones, like Joe’s own helmet. 
The amount of genuine passion and appreciation that Joe has for his work is both 
incredible to his visitors and inspiring for people who want to do what they love. 
Supporting local businesses and craftsmen is always important because you never realize 
how much talent and potential is right around the corner. 
My final question for Joe was how the UC San Diego community can give back to him 
and others like him. “I just need more media attention. If I can get noticed by younger people who are curious and love history, or donors who I can make specific models for, I 
really can expand and show off more [of] my collection, ” he said. So if you find yourself 
exploring downtown La Jolla, I highly recommend giving this storefront a visit for the 
aesthetics and the wonderful craftsmanship. 
For more details and contact information be sure to visit Joe’s website at http://www.
nhgallery.org/ or his free Museum at 1012 Pearl St., San Diego, CA.La Jolla Locals: Nautical History Museum and Gallery
by Natalie Duprey // Lifestyle Staff Writer
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
February may be the shortest month, but that doesn’t mean there’s 
less to do. Read on to get a glimpse of what events are happening in our 
community for the next four weeks. 
February is Museum Month in San Diego! Pick up your discount 
pass at a city or county library to get half-off admission at more than 
40 local museums, including Fleet Science Center , the Whaley House 
Museum , and the San Diego Natural History Museum . The pass can 
be used an unlimited amount of times. 
Explore more of San Diego with the Barrio Art Crawl on Feb. 9, 
a self-guided tour that takes you around to murals, open studios, and local businesses in the Barrio Logan Cultural District. Look through the 
flea market for unique finds, buy a piece of locally handcrafted jewelry, 
or stop in for a bite at one of the participating restaurants. 
Ring in the year of the pig with Balboa Park’s Chinese New Year 
Festival . Enjoy a range of performances, including lion dance, dragon 
dance, and kung-fu, and plenty of delicious food. Festivities will take place on both Feb. 9 and Feb. 10 at the International Cottages. 
For all you cinephiles, the San Diego Film Festival  o f f e r s  a  F i l m  
Insider Series. Once a month, a film that’s on its festival run shows at ArcLight Cinemas in La Jolla, and attendees have the opportunity to interact with filmmakers in a Q&A session. The pass is for all six 
viewings; the first showing of the year is The Hummingbird Project  
on Feb. 13. 
No Valentine’s Day date? Head over to Price Center West Ballroom 
on Feb. 14 for an unforgettable performance by Sean Kingston , who will 
have you singing “Beautiful Girls” all night. 
Join in on a city-wide celebration of performing arts such as San 
Diego Theatre Week , which is taking place from Feb. 14-24. Hum along 
to “Luck Be A Lady” at the Coronado Playhouse’s showing of Guys and 
Dolls, have a laugh at the National Comedy Theatre’s improvised show, 
or watch the San Diego Ballet dance to live jazz music. 
Celebrate World Bookmark Day  on Feb. 25 by making your own 
bookmark at Geisel Library! An exhibit of unique bookmarks will also 
be on display in Geisel West all throughout February. 
On Feb. 26, co-creator of Black Lives Matter and UC San Diego alum 
Alicia Garza will be speaking on our very own campus! Reserve your 
ticket now to see her talk about sparking societal change and ending 
social injustice in the Price Center West Ballroom.P eeks and 
Previews:
February
by Annika Olives // Lifestyle Editor
12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  4 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLEhealthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
At one time or another, the majority of us Tritons have lived on campus. 
We’ve grown tired of chicken tenders from Pines or Café Ventanas and 
opted for an overly priced package of cubed pineapple from John’s or 
Roger’s Markets. Dining Dollars dwindle faster and faster as we try to 
choose fresh but expensive produce from a market over greasy but cheap 
pizza from a dining hall.  
We’ve lived in residence halls and perhaps stayed another year in 
apartments. We learn to live in close quarters with strangers and friends, 
blowing off steam together as we power through essays and assignments for rigorous classes such as Making of the Modern World in Eleanor 
Roosevelt College or Humanities in Roger Revelle College. We also put in 
fix-it requests, and maybe, depending on where we’re living, we might put 
in many throughout the year: dysfunctional doors, leaky faucets, flooding 
floors, and old, faulty desks. 
We attend a world-renowned research-based institution here at UC 
San Diego, where we get the opportunity to receive an award-winning 
education. But at what cost? 
As this school gets more and more applicants and gives out more and 
more acceptances each year, living quarters become tighter and class sizes get bigger. Finding a parking spot becomes an extreme sport for students. 
Unless students truly push their way through others to make themselves 
known to a professor, they will remain just another PID in a lecture hall 
for the quarter. 
I know I’m extremely lucky to be here. I’ve met great people and have been able to establish a routine for myself. I knew upon arrival that this 
school is primarily an institution for research. In fact, on my very first day 
of class as a freshman, one of my professors told all of us fresh-faced first-
years that “this school doesn’t care about you. ” We knew he meant well and 
was just using a tough-love approach to encourage us to make our college 
experience what we want it to be instead of waiting for the school to do it 
for us. But is it wrong for us to want an elite education while also feeling 
valued and being seen as real individuals by this university?
Currently, plans are underway for Seventh College, but I can’t help 
but think of what other things that money and budgeting can do. This school can continue to be as great and groundbreaking as it is known to 
be in research while also having higher-quality housing and affordable 
dining. Expansion space can be used to satisfy the long, unanswered cry 
for student parking spaces. Counseling and Psychological Services would 
absolutely benefit from expansion and more hires, as many students have 
complained about the wait time to receive help with their mental health. 
More outreach can be done within each college to truly make it feel like a 
smaller community within such a large population. 
I think UCSD is an amazing school and all of us fellow Tritons are 
very fortunate to be here. However, a university shouldn’t need to sacrifice the overall well-being and happiness of its students in order to uphold its 
reputation. Hopefully, as UCSD continues to expand and do great things, 
it will also begin to create more of a balance between the campus’s inward 
and outward appearances. Funding More Than Just an Education
by Colleen Conradi // Lifestyle Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
UCSD COLLEGE BOWLTahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DIEGO
FEB 4 - FEB 10
2019
POWERED BY THE STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN COMING FEBRUARY!
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30pm
BODY COMPOSITION – THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter 
is available to registered UCSD students. 
11am
ART AND SOUL – THE ZONE
Enjoy a fun DIY arts and crafts project! Discover 
your creativity and destress! Contact: 
srlu@ucsd.edu
12:30pm
ILEAD WEEK 5 - 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST
GTough conversations are unavoidable in life. 
Your roommate is once again late paying their share of the rent, even though they promised you they would pay on time. Your relationship with your partner is not going well lately, and you're not sure how to say what you need to say to them. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS LEYLA 
MCCALLA - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
A former member of the Carolina Chocolate Drops, 
multi-instrumentalist Leyla McCalla ventured out on a solo career to pursue a personal sound. A New Yorkborn Haitian American living in New Orleans, McCalla is deeply influenced by traditional Creole, Cajun, and Haitian music, as well as by American jazz and folk. Her music is at once earthy, elegant, soulful, and witty. It vibrates with three centuries of history, yet also feels strikingly fresh, distinctive, and contemporary. McCallas latest album, A Day for the Hunter, A Day for the Prey, explores issues of social justice and pan-African consciousness. She has spent the last year and a half touring extensively around North America and Europe, and plans to release her third album in 2018.
10am
FLASH FITNESS - RIMAC 
STRETCHING AREA
Want to up your workout game? We have you 
covered! Join us on Thursday or Friday mornings for a quick 20 minute workshop to learn new techniques to get the most out of your workouts! Starting next Thursday! See our Facebook event for details!
2pm
ILEAD WEEK 5 - 2ND LEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
Tough conversations are unavoidable in life. 
Your roommate is once again late paying their share of the rent, even though they promised you they would pay on time. Your relationship with your partner is not going well lately, and you're not sure how to say what you need to say to them. Contact: kbrecht@ucsd.edu
5pm
COLLEGE BOWL - ALL COLLEGES
COLLEGE BOWL IS HERE! Grab some friends to form a team and put your knowledge of just about everything to the test. Come represent your college and win some cool prizes while you're at it. More details in the link below! More info here: https://www.facebook.com/UCSDrec/TUE2.05
THU2.07MON2.04
12pm
HUNGRY 4 HEALTHY – THE ZONE
Come join us as we demo healthy recipes and 
enjoy some free samples! All materials and 
ingredients will be provided. Seating is based 
on first come, first serve. Questions? Contact 
the zone (858) 534-5553 or zone@ucsd.edu.
5pm
COLLEGE BOWL - ALL COLLEGES
COLLEGE BOWL IS HERE! Grab some friends to 
form a team and put your knowledge of just 
about everything to the test. Come represent 
your college and win some cool prizes while 
you're at it. More details in the link below! More 
info here: https://www.facebook.com/UCSDrec/
6:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS X UC SAN 
DIEGO MUSIC PRESENT: BLACK 
FEBRUARY – THE LOFT
University Centers x UC San Diego Music 
Present: Black February. Recurring every 
Monday of February! Doors: 6:30PM Show: 
7:00PM. FREE for UCSD Students w/ ID. Black 
February featuring Stephanie Richards 
(conductions) and students and faculty of the 
UCSD graduate department.
7pm
BLACK FEBRUARY – THE LOFT
Each Monday of February, the Loft will present 
an evening of Conductions by Stephanie 
Richards and ensemble. Developed by the 
pioneering artist Butch Morris, Conduction can 
be described as a duet for conductor and 
ensemble. In honor of his trailblazing Black Feb 
series in 2005, The Loft is celebrating this 
unparalleled approach to music making by 
presenting three dynamic nights of Conduction 
throughout the month of February.
10am
FLASH FITNESS - RIMAC 
STRETCHING AREA
Want to up your workout game? We have you 
covered! Join us on Thursday or Friday mornings for a quick 20 minute workshop to learn new techniques to get the most out of your workouts! Starting next Thursday! FRI2.08
7am
2019 CACCCHE & UC SAN DIEGO 
STUDENT -SCHOLAR CONFERENCE - 
PRICE CENTER
Volunteer at the 2019 CaCCCHE Student Scholar 
Conference! Registration has closed.  Link to sign up: tinyurl.com/CACCCHEvolunteer  UC San Diego SPACES is hosting the 3rd Annual CaCCCHE Student-Scholar Conference on Saturday, February 9, 2019. This one-day drive-in conference is designed to create a pipeline for student-scholars to enter the field of social justice, identity development, and advocacy on college campuses. It features workshops by student-scholars and full-time staff who have made a career out of work for cultural/identity centers. Contact: spacesassistant@gmail.comSAT2.0912pm
COWLES MOUNTAIN 
MOONLIGHT HIKE -COWLES MOUNTAIN
You will be amazed at just how much the 
moon lights up the mountain on this great local adventure. Cowles Mountain is just 20 minutes from campus in Mission Trails Park. Hiking three miles in the moonlight and taking in the panoramic views of the skyline are a great way to spend a few hours away from campus. UCSD Students & Rec Members - $18 / 21, Non-Members - $30 / 35 More info here: https://www.facebook.com/events/2030855036980920/SUN2.09WED2.06MORE INFO, emailc griebenow@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK 
– THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness 
Peers! Measure your psychological stressors 
and learn more about what makes you most 
stressed, how it affects your well-being and how to keep your stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
5pm
COLLEGE BOWL - ALL COLLEGES
COLLEGE BOWL IS HERE! Grab some friends to form a team and put your knowledge of just about everything to the test. Come 
represent your college and win some cool 
prizes while you're at it. More details in the 
link below! More info here: https://www.facebook.com/UCSDrec/
5pm
THE JUDGE: FILM SCREENING 
AND DISCUSSION - ROBINSON 
AUDITORIUM, SCHOOL OF 
GLOBAL POLICY AND STRATEGY, 
UC SAN DIEGO
THE JUDGE is a unique and timely 
documentary about Kholoud Al-Faqih, the first woman judge to be appointed to the Middle Easts Sharia (Islamic law) courts. Judge Kholoud was top of her class in law school and a highly regarded lawyer who specialized in representing women and families in civil and criminal court cases. Her stunning strategies and perseverance to become a Sharia Court Judge was not only historic, but it also embodies so many aspects of inter-faith and cross-cultural perceptions and misperceptions about women and the law far beyond Islam. There will be a panel discussion and short reception following the screening.
7pm
WEDS@7 PALIMPSEST - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT 
HALL
Curated by Erik Carlson. Featuring the works 
of Eva-Maria Houben, Catherine Lamb, Anthony Vine, and Pauline Oliveros. Contact: publicity@music.ucsd.edu
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
FOOTBALL
CLASSIFIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o com munity.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. __ fide (genuine)
5. Enjoy bubble gum9. Makes a sketch
14. Brother of Cain
15. Where you live
16. Bouquet flowers17. Highway18. Take a crack __ (try)
19. Keats or Shelley
20. Balance-sheet total
22. HS juniors’ exams23. ‘’Electric’’ fish24. Fruit-filled dessert
25. Walked casually
29. 100-yard dash, e.g.
34. Merchandise35. Mouse catcher36. Zhivago’s love
37. __ now (so far)
38. Angry
39. Nest-egg accts.40. Does not exist41. Raucous noises42. Ben Franklin’s bill43. Student’s reading45. Gave one’s autograph46. Completely47. Nightclub performance48. Pet protection org.51. Obligated, so to speak57. Takes a glance58. Part of an ear59. Otherwise60. Grown-up61. U.S. Pacific island62. Depend63. Fills completely64. Penny-__ poker65. Ghost soundsDOWN
1. Farm building2. Woodwind instrument3. In good order
4. Alan of ‘’The West Wing’’
5. Pursued
6. Travel-guide recommendation7. Give off8. Moistens
9. ‘’Change the subject!’’
10. ‘’Twilight Zone’’ creator
11. Where Borneo is12. Toward sunset13. Former fast fliers: Abbr.
21. Takes a glance at
24. Vatican leader
25. Be patient for26. En __ (as a group)27. Borough north of Manhattan
28. Football position
29. Candid
30. Meal for a mare31. Composer Copland32. Fruit box33. Made simpler35. Threesome38. Object of worship42. Refer to44. Explosions45. Devious plan47. Facing the pitcher48. Regretful word49. Carbonated drink50. Sulk51. Gymnast Korbut52. Person, place, or thing53. Basil or rosemary54. Margarine55. Norway’s largest city56. Locksmith’s creationsCARS
New 2015 Subaru Impreza WRX Limited in 
San Diego, CA. Body Style: Sedan, Exterior Color: Crystal Black Silica, Inside color: Carbon BlackY, Mileage: 0mis, Transmission: M... ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2014 Chevrolet Suburban LT 1500 in 
San Diego, CA. Body Style: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE, Exterior Color: black, Inside color: Y, Mileage: 29701mis, Transmission: A… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Used 2012 Volkswagen Touareg in San 
Diego, CA. Body Style: S-U-V, Exterior Color: Dark Flint Metallic, Inside color: BLACKY, Mileage: 28243mis, Transmission: A… ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor-mation
BIKES
Custom like New/Redline 20’’ bmx bike/Full Chro-moly/Freestyle/Park in San Diego, CA. Freestyle/ Street/ Park/ Ramp/ Trails/ and or track use. Frame is Redline freestyle series 7.1 Frame and forks are Full (All tub-ing) Chro-moly. Frame top tube 20” 3/4” (center head tube to center seat post). Rear section 14” (center of crank spindle to center of rear wheel axle). Bars are Redline Chro-moly 26” x 8” 3/4” (Uncut). Stem is Hoffman…ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Diamondback Viper Chrome 20’’ BMX Style 
Bike in San Diego, CA. i purchase bike sev -
eral years ago for my son. he hardly used it, it sat out a bit. i cleaned it up a bit and stored it. Now i need the room to workout. it has a nice cushioned schwinn seat that is in exceptional shape (like new). tires are hardly used, installed new inner tubes, because old 1 didn’t hold air….ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
PRO BMX Bikes FOR SALE in San Diego, 
CA. ALMOST NEW BMX FREE STYLE Bike Diamond Back “GRIND” 18” center bar PRO FRAME mdl # 04013, 4X Aluminum Foot Pegs, 360 degree Full Handle bar rota -
tion, Front and Rear Hand Brakes, Rear gear neutral spin, Oversize Axles, Sealed Self Lubricating Bearings, Pro Heavy Duty Crank, Super Grip BMX Pedals 20” BMX Wheels Asking $250 or Best CASH ONLY...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
JOBS
Watersports Instructor and Sales executive - Aquatic Aviation is watersports company in San Diego that specializes in flyboard, hoverboard and jet pack sales, training, and events. We are looking for a new team member seeking a work life that includes time in the office as well as teaching our customers how to fly our products. Duties Provide flyboard, hoverboard, and jetpack instruction and training...ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Studio Artist, Painting With A Twist - We are 
hiring a part time studio artist!- Must be over 21 (because we have a bar)- Must be available for 3.5-4 hour shifts on Saturdays and Sundays (between 10am-10pm)- Preferably available during the week as well… ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Accounting Assistant - Title: Accounting 
Assistant, Location: San Diego, CA, Salary: $18.00 - $23.00 Hourly, Part Time Hours - 20-25 per week, Long Term Contract. Our client is a premier provider of com -
plex design and engineering services to the aerospace and defense industry. Additionally, they provide program man-agement support to many of their clients’ R&D departments and are actively engaged in the development of several next gen-eration platforms...ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
Create custom apparel
to promote your group,department or studentorganization!
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
The UC San Diego men’s 
volleyball team squared o ff against 
Concordia University Irvine on Feb. 
1, taking the match in five sets, 3–2. 
UCSD and CUI came into the game 
pretty evenly matched: Both play 
in the same conference (Mountain Pacific Sports Federation) and have 
four wins this season. The game 
was close; momentum flip-flopped 
between the Tritons and the Eagles, 
but the home team ultimately was 
able to hold on. 
UCSD took the first two sets 27–25 and 25–22, but CUI took the next 
two sets 25–19 and 25–21. In the 
fifth and final set, UCSD was able to 
pull off a 15–13 victory, winning the 
home team both the match and the entire game 3–2. The largest margin 
of victory for any was just 6 points, 
demonstrating how close the two 
teams really were. 
Despite the closeness of the 
game, some statistics tell a di fferent 
story. The Tritons had 72 total kills, 
while the Eagles managed just 57. 
This begs the question: If UCSD 
generated so many more points, 
why were the games so close? The 
answer is errors. The Tritons had 27 attack errors and 19 service errors; 
the Eagles had 24 attack errors 
and just 9 service errors. UCSD’s dominant o ffensive production 
was counterbalanced by serving mistakes. 
Sophomore outside hitter Wyatt 
Harrison embodied UCSD’s ups and downs for the match. Harrison not only lead the team in kills with 23, 
but he also lead the team in errors, 
recording 23 kills and 8 errors on the night. Overall, Harrison put together 
a nice performance against the 
tough Eagles. The best performance 
on defense for the Tritons was junior 
libero Ryan Lew. He dominated the Tritons’s backcourt, putting up a team-high 19 digs. Sophomore 
opposite Collin Shannon also had a strong match. The 6 foot, 7-inch 
sophomore had 17 kills, 11 digs, and 2 block assists. The next two 
leading kill-getters for the Tritons 
were redshirt junior Xander Jimenez 
and redshirt sophomore Vlad Pesic. They finished with 11 and 10 kills, 
respectively. They were followed 
by freshman middle blocker Shane Benetz, who had a solid game as 
well with a season-high 9 kills in the 
game, four of which came in the first 
set. 
Over the next two weeks, UCSD will have a doubleheader against 
University of California, Irvine. 
Their first game on Feb. 8 will be at 
home at RIMAC Arena; their second 
game on Feb. 14 will be in Irvine at 
the Bren Events Center. The 10–2 
Anteaters will be a tough challenge 
for the 4–6 Tritons. UCSD has 
shown some success at home, but has struggled to produce on the road 
thus far. The Tritons hopes to ride 
this week’s success into a potential 
upset in its next outing.healthpromotion.ucsd.edu / smokefree.ucsd.edu
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 1 1am-1pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 1 1am-3pmWINTER 2019wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
Men’s Volleyball 
Falls to Visiting 
Princeton, Beats CUI
UCSD only narrowly won over CUI, 
committing many errors throughout 
BYWesley xiao
staff WriterMen's VolleyballPHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICSFor the second time this season, 
the No. 2 UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team faced off against an 
interconference foe, the California State University, Stanislaus Warriors, 
sweeping the season series at 2–0 with 
a 94–67 win and extending its amazing 28-game winning streak that dates back 
to last year. Although the Tritons have 
been focusing on just one game at a time 
during this winning streak, this game had 
to mean a bit more than any other for the team, as the Warriors were the last team 
to defeat them on their home floor. From 
start to finish, the Tritons commanded all facets of the game and avenged this past 
loss with a dominant win.
Fresh off Head Coach Heidi 
VanDerveer ’s 150th win, it was evident the Tritons were playing with some extra 
inspiration. Many fans and students also showed up for the 2019 Spirit Night, and 
their presence seemed to invigorate the 
Tritons early on as they jumped out to a substantial lead in the first half. Junior guard Sydney Sharp was feeling it early in the game, draining three 3-pointers in 
the first quarter alone and 7 on the night, 
as she helped the Tritons build a sizable lead. 
Once the blue and gold had seized 
the lead, there was no looking back. At the end of the first quarter, UCSD had 
all the momentum and a 21–16 lead. In 
the second quarter, the Tritons, hitting on all cylinders, fully demonstrated 
what makes them so dangerous and 
so successful in this thrilling winning streak. In addition to their barrage of 3-pointers and constant ball movement, 
the Tritons were stellar on defense, 
holding the Warriors to only 4 points over a six-minute period. The Tritons’ 
ferocity and energy on the boards helped 
them to out-rebound the Warriors 42–29 and record 6 blocks, all of which helped 
the team to a 44–24 lead at the half. 
Junior forward Mikayla Williams 
demoralized the Warriors with her stout defensive effort as she put out 3 
total blocks while also pouring on 19 points for the Tritons. Junior forward 
Haleigh Hatfield was also instrumental 
to the Tritons’ success, leading the team in scoring and rebounds while also recording a block and steal during their 
big second quarter run. 
During the second half, the Tritons 
kept their foot on the pedal all the way until the end, shooting an improved 51.4 
percent (18–35) from the field in the second half versus 46.7 percent (14–30) 
in the first half, which guided them to the 
victory in front of their home crowd in RIMAC Arena. 
Perhaps more impressive was the 
Tritons’ ball movement, led by freshman guard Brianna Claros, who notched a game-high of 10 assists. As a team, the 
Tritons posted 19 assists and involved all 
team members, as six Tritons scored in double figures. 
After this statement win, UCSD now 
sits at 18–0 on the year, including a 14–0 in-conference record. The Tritons will 
look to keep their winning streak alive 
when they travel up to Kellogg Arena to take on California State Polytechnic 
University, Pomona on Feb. 7. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at CSU San Marcos Invitational
vs Cal State Dominguez Hillsvs UC Irvineat Cal Poly Pomonaat Cal Poly PomonaUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Golf
Softball
M Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball7:30 AM
1PM7PM
5:30PM7:30PM2/42/82/82/72/7
The smoke machines were 
working to perfection, clouding the 
air above the RIMAC Arena floor 
as UC San Diego prepared to tip o ff 
against California State University, Stanislaus in what would end being 
yet another big win in what has been a season of routs for the Tritons. 
The team took down the visiting 
Warriors 73–56 on Spirit Night in 
front of 1,713 excited fans, who 
showed up despite the rainy weather. 
In what was a sort of stop-and-
start game o ffensively for UCSD, the 
team was led by sophomore guard 
Gabe Hadley, who came into the game a fter five minutes of almost 
no offense by either side. Hadley 
paced the Tritons with 17 points, going 5–8 from 3-point range, and 
was supported by the inside-out 
presence of redshirt sophomore and freshman guards Mikey Howell and 
Tyrell Roberts. Howell was the team’s 
best interior scorer with redshirt junior center Chris Hansen having 
somewhat of an o ff game, even 
though the 6’7” center still scored 
9 points and pulled in 9 rebounds. Hansen played just 23 minutes in the game, giving way to increased 
bench minutes from Hadley and 
senior forward Eric Patton, who added 4 points and 2 rebounds in 
his 13 minutes. 
Howell dropped 9 points and 
6 rebounds and Roberts shot 4–7 from three, hitting most of his shots 
in the second half; he finished with 
13 points and 3 rebounds. 
The atmosphere was electric 
early on in the game, especially after Hansen won the tip. However, 
as the Tritons missed their first few 
shots, the crowd quickly de flated. 
The crowd had really wanted to 
see a three-pointer drop early on, once again anticipating a barrage of three-pointers from the school that 
has hit the most 3-point shots in the 
nation to this point in the season.
After UCSD missed its first three 
attempts from deep, Howell gave the Tritons the 5–2 lead with a three that prompted an early timeout from the 
Warriors. 
While UCSD was having a tough 
time scoring, its defense kept it in control early on. The Triton defense 
forced an impressive 12 turnovers in 
the first half, helping it have the time to settle in and start knocking down shots. 
The first big run for UCSD began 
with a corner three from Hadley, a shot that would be repeated many 
times by him on the night. On the 
next Triton possession, redshirt junior guard Jeremy Johnson hit 
a three to put the team up 13–4, 
prompting another Warriors timeout. Coming out of the break, 
Hadley brought the crowd back 
to life right away as he hit another three-pointer on an assist from 
freshly-inserted redshirt junior 
guard Connor Peterson, pushing the UCSD lead up to 12.
After a mini-run by Stanislaus 
State, Hansen and Howell scored inside on alternating possessions, 
with Hansen throwing down a one-
handed dunk and Howell hitting a contested layup in the lane, bringing 
the lead back to 20–10. On the next 
Triton possession, Howell found Hansen inside for an easy open 
layup, prompting another Stanislaus 
State timeout. 
The rest of the first quarter would 
hold little excitement beyond a student fan winning a free bike and riding laps with it around the court until the Triton mascot chased him out. 
To end the half, junior forward 
Scott Everman spun inside and scored to the delight of the home 
crowd, and a fter a steal by Hadley, 
Howell tried to send the crowd into 
halftime with even more to cheer 
about by going up for a two-handed dunk; however, the young guard was met at the rim by Stanislaus 
State’s Andy Cleaves. Luckily for 
the Tritons, senior guard Christian Bayne cleaned up the miss, driving 
the score up to 38–15. The Warriors 
would hit one more three heading 
into hal ftime, trailing 38–18 to the 
spirited home team. 
After the annual Spirit Night 
musical chairs event at hal ftime, 
UCSD came out of the locker room having already outshot the opposition 32–20, having hit 6 out 
of 15 three-pointers compared to 
Stanislaus State’s single three on just five attempts. 
The slow start to the first half 
was not to be repeated to start the second for the Tritons as the team 
ran up the score to 46–22 on a big 
three by Hadley right in front of the UCSD bench. This led to a big cheer from the home crowd that was sustained by the appearance of 
the Dance Cam on the jumbotron, 
and just a few minutes later much of the crowd would start to head for 
the exits early. This was because the 
Tritons had just capped o ff another 
big run, one characteristic of their 2018-2019 campaign, hitting three 
3-pointers on four possessions before the Warriors would be forced 
to call a timeout to stop the bleeding. 
At that point, the score was 57–
27 in favor of UCSD, its biggest lead of the night. While Stanislaus State 
would bring it back to within 17 points by games end, the game was 
decidedly over at this point. 
The No. 19 Tritons regained 
first place from California State 
University, East Bay with the win, 
moving to 12–2 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
The team’s next game will come on 
the road on Thursday, Feb. 7 against 
the California State University, Pomona, in what will be the first of a 
short two-game road trip beginning 
next week. 
Men's BasketballCrowd 
Brings the Energy in 
Win on Spirit 
Night
Men’s basketball achieved victory 
over Stanislaus State without 
difficulty. PHOTO COURTESY OF TRITON ATHLETICS
BY jack dorfman
sPorts Editor
jack dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd.edu
Ha yden Wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.eduWomen’s 
Basketball stays perfect against Stanislaus State
Second-ranked Tritons beat down 
the visiting Warriors. BY Hayden Wellbeloved
Contributing Writer