The San Diego Superior Court 
issued a notice of dismissal in the 
lawsuit of Roger Revelle College 
junior Maria Flores against UC San Diego, the City of San Diego, and several other entities on April 11. 
Flores filed a personal injury and 
property damage lawsuit in 2017 after she was hit by a car during an on-campus protest that spilled onto the interstate. 
According to the notice, the case 
will officially be dismissed without 
prejudice on May 25 unless one of 
the following two actions occur: The plaintiff files a judgment or dismissal or requests a continuance. 
In the latter, Flores would appear ex 
parte, a legal proceeding in which only one party is involved, and explain to the judge why the case 
should not be dismissed. 
Flores was participating in a 2016 election night protest on 
campus that spread onto Interstate 5, according to the original lawsuit 
filed on Nov. 2017. An emergency 
vehicle that was driving in an ‘S’ formation hit Flores, leaving her with a crushed pelvis, fractured 
leg, and other severe injuries. Her 
attorney, Jerold Sullivan, argued that UCSD was liable for Flores’ injuries because it “organized” the The Muslim Student Association at UCSD 
hosted the annual Justice in Palestine Week 
from May 6 to May 9. The week-long 
event, centered on wooden banners discussing the 
Israeli occupation of Palestine, included a variety of 
evening speaking engagements.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is an ongoing 
struggle of nationhood between Israelis and 
Palestinians which has continued on for over 
50 years. While the current boundaries between 
the two states were drawn up in an armistice agreement following the 1948 Arab-Israeli W ar, 
the conflict has persisted, most recently with Israeli 
settlement in the West Bank and a continuous military conflict in the Gaza Strip, both regions of Palestine.
A description on the event’s Facebook page 
written by the UCSD MSA explained that the goal of the week is to offer education about the conflict.
“We have a moral responsibility to educate 
ourselves on the history of an illegal occupation, ” the description read. “It is with this intention, that we embark on learning about the current struggle 
of the Palestinian people. ”
Topics for the evenings included a seminar on 
the difference between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism, the history of the Israeli occupation 
of designated Palestinian lands, and a panel of speakers who shared their experiences as both 
Palestinians and Palestinian Americans.
In addition to the nightly speaking events, 
members from the MSA tabled on Library W alk 
with donuts and coffee to have conversations 
with students. They also had a letter writing 
table for students to write their Congressional representatives in support of H.R. 2407, a bill that 
would prevent Israel from using U.S. military aid to 
detain Palestinian children.
A student from the MSA who wished to remain anonymous for fear of future employment repercussions for going on the record as supporting 
Palestine, told the UCSD Guardian that the use of 
the word “conflict” does not accurately describe the relationship between Israel and Palestine.
“We don’t like to call it a conflict because that 
(word) implies that the two parties are on equal footing, ” the student said. “What Israel is doing to the Palestinian people is oppression. ”
The student went on to talk about how the goal 
of the week-long event is to bring awareness to the issue rather than to outright bring an end to it.
“ A lot of people have a misunderstanding (on 
the situation), so we are trying to create awareness, ” the student said. “We’re not trying to create a solution; we (just) want people to know what is 
going on. The way we can resist is through peaceful 
protest. ”
The student went on to talk about how on 
Wednesday, May 8, tensions rose during the tabling 
event when several Jewish students confronted the 
MSA.
“Y esterday we had some heated stuff from 
Jewish students who came to stop what we were 
doing and (were) trying to get us to do stuff we 
don’t want to do, ” the student said. “Hillel sent (us) 
an email as a response to what we’re doing stating 
that they have spies around the wall to report on what we’re doing.. They painted over our (painting) 
in graffiti art park. Why are they doing this now 
when we (only) do this once a year?”
Hillel did not respond to emails from the 
Guardian to address these claims.
Dr. Farid Abdel-Nour, a professor of Political 
Science and Islamic and Arabic Studies at San Diego State University, gave a talk Monday night 
titled “on this land... The Palestinian Plight & 
History of an Illegal Occupation. ” Dr. Abdel-Nour told the Guardian that events like Justice in VOLUME 52, ISSUE 27  MONDA Y , MA Y 13, 2019  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Student Health 
Services takes 
Preventative Action 
Against Measles
This comes after several outbreaks of the 
disease have been reported statewide.
MEDICINE
Court Dismisses UCSD Student’s 2016 Election Night Lawsuit
King Triton helps out by carrying donations during the stu ff the bus food drive Saturday  // Photo by Shayna KalerUC San Diego Student Health 
Services, an on-campus healthcare 
resource and primary care provider 
for many students, is taking preventative measures against 
the possible spread of measles. 
The Center for Disease Control confirmed over 700 individual cases of measles this past year 
across 23 states, making this the 
greatest number reported in the United States since 1994 and since 
measles was declared eliminated 
in 2000.
According to the CDC, measles 
is a contagious airborne viral disease. The symptoms of the disease include fever, coughing, a runny nose and a rash of tiny red 
spots.
UCSD’s Office of Student Health 
and Wellbeing sent out an all-campus email on April 26 to alert 
students about a measles outbreak 
in Los Angeles. More than 1000 
students and faculty at UCLA and 
California State University, Los 
Angeles were quarantined or sent home earlier that same day.
The email included guidance 
from the CDC and the California Department of Public Health encouraging vaccination, 
supporting early identification, and 
providing information about the measles virus and its symptoms. 
It also urged students to review 
documentation of their measles vaccination and immunity status 
and to contact SHS if they suspect 
that they’ve been exposed to measles. 
As of the time of this article’s 
publication, 44 confirmed measles cases have been reported in California this year. San Diego 
County has not had a reported case 
of the measles since 2017.
The LA Times reported that past 
measles outbreaks in California are the result of a fall of vaccination rates due to unfounded fears that 
vaccines cause autism and other 
chronic diseases. As of 2017, the state-wide vaccination rate is 96.9 
percent, above the nationwide rate 
of 91.1 percent.
In an email to the UCSD 
Guardian, the SHS Director of 
Medical Services Dr. Stacie San 
Miguel said that they are taking action to identify students who do 
not have documented immunity to 
measles. 
“We are currently working 
to identify those students who are not immune to measles, ” Dr. San Miguel said. “If there was an exposure, these students would be 
quarantined until their immunity 
status was determined. They could be quarantined for up to 8 days if 
exposed. ”
Dr. San Miguel also said that By JACOB SUTHERLAND   
NEWS EDITORCAMPUS
Students Hold Week Long Event in Support of  PalestinePHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"...the first person I told 
reacted very excited, like, ‘Oh 
my god, that’s you?!’ It was 
weird; this campus is so big, 
I never expected anybody to 
actually notice more than one 
or two of them."
IMPOSTER  SYNDROME
MARVEL  UNIVERSETHE  GENDERED  STRUGGLE
A&E   GOES  HEAD-TO-HEADFEATURES,  Page   6
A&E ,   Page 9
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"I think that too many 
teenagers come out of 
high school without proper 
coping mechanisms for 
failure and even being 
average. Giving students 
these abilities at the start of 
their college career would 
prepare them for success 
and increase the quality of 
a UCSD education."MONDAY
 H 67 L 61
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 61
TUESDAY
H 67 L 61
THURSDAY
H 65 L 60
STEM CELL TRAILS.........2
SUN GOD.........................4
STUART ART..................10
DR. SCOTT.....................12
REFEREES.....................15HEALTH
Alex Rickard
Mindfulness
 PAGE 7The student’s attorney argued that UCSD had the responsiblity to contain the protest that spilled onto I-5.
BY  Daniel LI
Contributing WriterBY  TROY TUQUERO
Staff writerGOOGLY-EYE GUY:
AN INSIDE PEEK
A&E, page 8
See LAWSUIT,  page 3 See MEASLES,  page 3See JUSTICE,  page 3
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ROADTRIP By Michi Sora
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
I’m so lonely in this studio.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Christopher Robertson
Lauren Holt
Jacob Sutherland
Adriana Barrios
Jack Dorfman
Jade Knows His Gun-Wong
Daisy Scott
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Francesca Hummler
Alex Rickard
Hojune Kwak
Kritin Karkare
Anthony Tran
Ranjani SharkarEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo EditorDesign EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard, Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Darren Lam, Divya Seth, Brian Frastaci,
Hakyung, Daniel Li, Cristina Hernandez
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
@ucsdguardianDerek Ruff, a San Diegan 
who was diagnosed with stage 
IV metastatic colon cancer, will be the first patient to participate in a United States Food and Drug Administration-approved clinical trial involving the use of emerging stem cell research. The immunotherapy treatment offered through UC San Diego’s Moores Cancer Center and San Diego-based biopharmaceutical company Fate Therapeutics marks the beginning of a new type of cancer-fighting stem cell treatment, which officially began 
in March 2019.  
After having originally battled 
cancer over nine years ago, Ruff 
was diagnosed with stage IV colon cancer in May 2018. Ruff ’s condition showed no signs of improvement following three months of chemotherapy. He was eventually invited to participate in a separate clinical trial at UCSD Health’s Moores Cancer Center, but that trial did not yield any positive results. 
The lack of responsiveness 
to any medical treatments led doctors to offerRuff a placement in another trial involving cancer-killing stem cells. He received his 
first dose in February 2019. 
The trial–expected to go on 
until June 2022–uses a human-induced pluripotent stem cell-
derived cell therapy known as FT500.  iPSCs are human adult cells that are re-inserted into stem cells that have the capacity to replicate almost any type of cell. In FT500, iPSCs were reprogrammed into natural killer cells, specialized immune cells known for being effective at killing cancer cells, and used in treating Ruff ’s colon cancer.
Beginning in December 
2017 and in collaboration with Fate Therapeutics, UCSD began research on this new method. This new effort is the first to mass produce cancer-killing cells derived from stem cells. The study was led by Dr. Dan S. Kaufman, professor in the Division of Regenerative Medicine, Director of Cell 
Therapy, and leading expert in 
the differentiation of iPSCs to natural killer cells.
“This is a landmark 
accomplishment for the field of stem cell-based medicine and cancer immunotherapy. ” Kaufman said in a statement published earlier last month by Trial Site News. “This clinical 
trial represents the first use of 
cells produced from human induced pluripotent stem cells to better treat and fight cancer. ”   
In an interview with the UCSD 
Guardian, representatives from Fate Therapeutics explained the forthcoming of clinical trial FT500, as well as its relevance to expanding accessibility of patients to the NK cells. 
“Fate Therapeutics is 
exploring ways to harness the immune system to treat cancer through the manufacture of genetically engineered immune cells, ” Wayne Chu, Ph.D, and Vice President of Fate’s Clinical Development said. “[Immune cells are] designed to specifically attack and kill target cancer cells. ” 
According to Fate 
Therapeutics’ Chief Development Officer, Bob Valamehr, the trial, which received clearance by the FDA in November 2018, took approximately three years to obtain approval. 
Chu noted that the “off-the-
shelf ” treatment is a game-changer due to its strong potential benefits offered in the progression of methods to defeat cancer, and when compared to existing treatments where a cell therapy called chimeric antigen receptor, or CAR T cells are more widely known in the market. 
“The use of iPSC derived 
therapies such as those being developed at FATE presents a tremendous opportunity to develop true off-the-shelf cellular therapies for the treatment of cancer, ” Chu said. “[The therapy] has multiple potential advantages over current-generation cellular therapies. ”
This method is beneficial to 
patients because there would be less of a time delay  to access the immunotherapy. Patients would now have the ability of receiving the treatment multiple times instead of in singular session. The therapy will also avoid serious side effects prevalent in prior existing cell therapies.  
Fate Therapeutics and the 
Moores Cancer Center are currently enrolling any new patients recommended by their physicians with advanced stages of cancer, where conventional treatments had no lasting or positive impact and face limited to no alternative treatment options.  Those interested in learning more about FT500 
clinical trial, including eligibility 
criteria, are encouraged to visit www.clinicaltrials.gov.
BY  Rebecca camacho
Senior staff WriterMEDICINE
UCSD Health’s Moores Cancer Center Launches  New Stem Cell Cancer Treatment Trials
This new type of treatment is the first of its kind worldwide, and is currently accepting patients with advanced stages of cancer.
Rebecca  camacho  rlcamach@ucsd.eduNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN |  MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Palestine are necessary to shed light 
on a conflict that is often forgotten.
“What makes the injustice 
they suffer particularly worthy of campus attention is that… the 
messaging coming out of official 
US governmental channels and from the mainstream of the Republican and Democratic 
parties tends to obscure the grave 
injustice that Palestinians have suffered for over 71 years now, and 
that they continue to suffer, ” Dr. 
Abdel-Nour said. “The academy is where difficult truths must be told, 
especially when the government 
circulates lies. ”Dr. Abdel-Nour said that events 
like those at UCSD had previously 
taken place on campus at San Diego 
State University. However, several incidents occurred at the university 
that caused students who had been 
active within the “Free Palestine” movement to be fearful to express their points of view.
“I very much regret that no such 
event has taken place over the last couple of years, ” Dr. Abdel-Nour 
said. “SDSU students who were 
active in Palestine solidarity work were attacked, intimidated, and 
threatened in 2016, and regrettably 
this had a chilling effect on their solidarity work. My hope is that they will put this fear behind them 
and resume their important work 
in future years. ”
Reaffirming the goal of the 
movement, Dr. Abdel-Nour said that the purpose of the “Free Palestine” movement is centered around equality.
“The Palestinian people’s 
struggle is a demand that they be treated as equals, that their interests, 
dreams, aspirations, fears, and 
suffering be taken seriously, ” Dr. Abdel-Nour said. “The dynamic of 
this conflict from the early 1900s 
until today is one in which the Palestinian people were treated as if they are an inconvenience, as 
if they are an obstacle, in the way 
of someone else’s dream … Their struggle was and remains about 
being treated as equals. ”
The UCSD MSA meets 
periodically throughout the 
quarter. In addition to the annual 
Justice in Palestine Week, the MSA 
has hosted other events, including Anti-Colonialism Day, Islam 
Awareness Week, and a program 
on Islamic Studies.SHS will hand over authority to San Diego County in the event of a measles outbreak at UCSD. No 
adjustments to these contingency 
plans have been made in the face of the recent reported measles cases.
“If there is an outbreak of measles 
at UCSD, we would first contact the San Diego County Public Health 
Department, UC San Diego Health 
and various campus departments, ” 
San Miguel said. “Our main priority is to get students who 
have incomplete documentation 
of measles vaccination up to date 
on their vaccines now, so that if 
there is a case of measles at UCSD, the students will already have immunity. ”
Starting in Fall of 2016, a 
UC system-wide requirement mandates that all students provide 
documentation of up to 6 vaccine 
preventable diseases, which 
includes measles. A person is 
considered immune to measles if 
they received 2 doses of the MMR 
vaccine or if they have tested positive for immunity by proof of blood test.
When asked what role students 
can play in aiding UCSD’s 
preventative measures, San Miguel 
encouraged students to visit SHS for either testing or vaccination 
in the event that they do not have 
documentation of their immunity to measles. The measles vaccine is 
fully covered for students with the 
UC Student Health Insurance Plan. 
Students with Reduced Access Fee for Tritons or their own private 
insurance will have to pay $78 for 
the vaccine. 
San Miguel also stressed that 
students need to practice good hygiene techniques to prevent the spread of infection like “[covering] 
their coughs, not [sharing] utensils 
or drinks, and [washing] their hands frequently. ”
Associated Students’ AVP 
of Health and Wellness Revati 
Rashingkar told the Guardian that 
the Office of Health and Wellness 
is hoping to partner with SHS in 
creating a vaccine clinic to aid preventative measures.“The Office of Health and 
Wellness and SHS have begun a discussion about the possibility of 
having a vaccine clinic for measles, 
but nothing has been decided yet due to the measles vaccine 
having temperature regulation 
needs that the clinic structure may interfere with and other [logistical] 
concerns, ” Rashingkar said. “I have 
also offered my support however 
needed to [Dr. San Miguel] in [SHS’s efforts] to prevent a measles 
outbreak. ”
Rashingkar noted that she 
was unaware of what UCSD 
administration has done so far to reach out to faculty and staff regarding immunization. She 
expressed her hopes that university 
officials have taken action to guarantee that “[something has 
been done] to ensure that the 
members of our campus who 
are not students also get fully 
immunized if possible, since SHS 
is exclusively for students and their 
efforts won’t reach every person on campus that could contribute to an outbreak. ”
Earl W arren College freshman 
Genesis Campbell expressed 
disbelief that students have to worry 
about a measles outbreak even with the availability of vaccination.
“I think more than anything, 
I’m shocked that [the measles virus] is threatening the wellbeing 
of students, ” Campbell said. “We 
shouldn’t be dealing with this when 
there’s a perfectly-tested vaccine that is 100 percent effective. ” 
As of the writing of this article, 
no measles outbreaks have been 
reported on campus. Students 
showing symptoms of the disease are encouraged to call SHS at 858-534-3300 for further instructions. 
They should not visit SHSs in 
person or any health care facility until they have spoken to a 
healthcare provider.protest and did nothing to stop 
it, allowing protestors to enter the 
freeway.
“Plaintiff was participating in 
a citizen protest that had been 
organized by the University of California, San Diego and/or the 
University of California Regents, ” 
the original complaint reads. 
“The protest continued all over 
campus for hours and was never 
stopped, controlled, or refrained 
by the County of San Diego, City 
of San Diego, State of California, 
University of California Regents or the University of California, San 
Diego. ”   
This motion also comes roughly 
eight months after Judge John S. 
Meyer ruled against Flores and in 
favor of the City of San Diego on 
Aug. 10, citing that her attorney’s argument was irrelevant and 
invalid. In his ruling, Meyer also 
held that the City had no obligation 
to pay for any of the damages.
In response, Sullivan filed an 
amended complaint against the 
Department of Transportation, arguing that the Department 
should be held responsible because 
the emergency vehicle attempted to shut down the protest in an “inadequate and negligent” manner. 
Neither Sullivan nor Flores 
could be reached for comment. It is unknown whether or not they 
will take any action to reverse the 
dismissal.
Vaccine available through SHS for free to students with UC SHIP , $78 for other insurances A complaint was filed
Muslim Student Association wants to start a conversation on what is going on in the Middle East▶ MEASLES , from page 1 ▶ LAWSUIT , from page 1
▶ JUSTICE , from page 1
Daniel  Li  dal234@ucsd.edutroy  tuquero  ttuquero@ucsd.edu
Jacob sutherland  news@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONAdriana  Barrios
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
A year ago, I wrote an article called “Sun God is Dead” in 
which I denounced A. S. Concerts & Events for wasting its 
almost $1 million of student fees on a low-rent Coachella. 
It was a sentiment that was echoed throughout the student body, because we all saw the fundamental failings with an event that felt 
disconnected from students. Fortunately, it seems ASCE took notes 
for this year’s festival. The event did away with the unnecessary two-
stage set up, featuring a single stage with bigger artists. In place of the second stage, they hosted di fferent activities that aimed to create 
a more unique entertainment experience. 
It was a pretty signi ficant restructuring of the event which 
pretty clearly targeted the unhappiness people had with the event. 
In a school where administrative decisions take years to come to 
fruition, it demonstrates that they heard people’s complaints and 
tried to address them. Despite this, people still had things to say 
about the event, complaining about security measures and the lack of student involvement. Many felt that Sun God Festival was the social expenditure meant to placate our cries for a more lively 
campus. The festival this year, though, shows a clear and concerted 
effort from the students in ASCE to address these issues, and it is 
about time students make a more authentic e ffort to improve their 
own campus. 
 Given the complaints of over-policing on campus, there 
seems to be a fundamental misunderstanding as to what it means to 
be responsible for the well-being of thousands of people. Depending 
on the source, the national average of mass shootings since the 
beginning of the year has been one a day. On the day of Sun God, 
twenty minutes away from our campus, there was a shooting at a 
synagogue. If anything were to happen at an event on our campus, 
the number one question anyone would be asking is why there 
wasn’t more security or why they didn’t foresee this happening. 
This rationale stops non-students from entering the festival. As a 
person of color, seeing police o fficers on campus is one of the worst 
parts of my day, on any given day, but as someone who acknowledges 
the national epidemic of gun violence we are currently experiencing, there comes a point where you compromise. To say it is triggering for 
people of color to see police o fficers seems like a gross minimization 
of how triggering it is to be marginalized on this campus on a general basis. Many are rightfully uncomfortable around the police 
officers on this campus, but when concerning an event the size and 
proportion of Sun God, it comes across more ignorant than “woke” .
 The cruci fiction of ASCE also needs some perspective. 
A.S. Council  is primarily made up of students who are o ften 
underpaid and overworked. There are inherent issues with it as a 
bloated bureaucratic organization that faces pressures from both 
its constituency and the administration and needs to balance the 
happiness of all parties. Stuck in this perpetual balancing act, they 
often seem to get less done than what they promised but there’s not 
that much they can do. That being said, if people were as invested 
in fixing Sun God as they are in complaining about it, maybe they 
should attend the town houses and meetings that they hold every 
single quarter regarding these events. They also take on student 
volunteers for their events and they have increased the number and 
visibility of their feedback sources. It is very clear that they apply 
student input when they can, given they did so this year with Sun 
God. 
 I am the first person to support students criticisms of ASCE 
and of the larger UC San Diego administrative body, especially 
when it concerns the use of student funds. That being said, beating 
the very dead horse of comparing our campus to our sister schools 
does not create solutions or change. It just breeds unhappiness. We 
get it, UCLA is more fun and UC Berkeley is more well-known, but 
the unfortunate reality is that you do not attend those schools. So, 
we should seek to improve our lot here as much as we can. Criticism 
is only e ffective when it is constructive and when it endeavors to 
see improvements, otherwise it is just wailing. This year’s festival 
may have not been the best concert I have ever attended but it demonstrated clear and focused e fforts on the part of fellow students 
to create something better for all of us and to be responsive to student input. By Adriana Barrios     Opinion Editor
ILLUSTRATION    BY   JESSICA   NIEven after A.S. Concerts and Events’ clear effort to improve this year’s Sun God 
Festival, many were left with the same disappointment plaguing students each 
year. The event might not have been perfect but it proves that ASCE is willing 
and able to apply student input, if they are willing to give it.       IN   Defense   of   Sun   god
A  World  Of  Difference
opinion  editor   opinion@ucsdguardian.orgOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
ANTI-VIRUS PROGRAM   
By System 32
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
JADE KNOWS HIS GUN-WONG
features@ucsdguardian.org
Everyone has experienced feelings of self-doubt or of not belonging at 
some point. Such impostor feelings are extremely common among 
those pursuing science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
fields because the fast-paced nature of these disciplines fosters comparison and makes it easy to feel behind. Especially at a competitive, STEM-oriented 
university like UC San Diego, these feelings of impostor syndrome are likely 
to be more prevalent than many probably think. 
Impostor syndrome is a persistent psychological feeling in which an 
individual doubts their accomplishments and feels like an “impostor” 
in a role they are in fact qualified enough to have. Those with impostor 
syndrome feel as if they don’t deserve their success, often attributing their 
achievements to luck, timing, or other external factors instead.
“They let everybody in. ” “If I can do it, anyone can. ” “I don’t deserve this 
position. ” “I feel like a fake. ”
Impostor syndrome is a basic human feeling that nearly everyone 
experiences at some point. But it’s especially common among high achievers 
who tend to exhibit perfectionist tendencies, and it disproportionately 
affects minorities and women, who face unique barriers to success and 
attaining respect.
In 2017, UCSD’s Computer Science and Engineering program was 
ranked 14th in the nation. UCSD’s computer science major is notoriously 
challenging and intense; many students 
are deterred from even trying it due to the 
elite association the program carries in the 
first place. 
Computer science, as an industry, 
is also culturally associated with those 
who are predominately white and male. 
This continues to discourage others from 
entering an industry where they might 
feel less welcomed, or where they might 
face feelings of isolation, on account of 
deviating from the typically experienced, 
white, male-centric cultural norm. 
However, some people are surprised to hear that computer science was 
once dominated by women. According to a New York Times piece about 
the history of gender balance in the field, women played a crucial role 
in programming and cracking code during World War II. Coding was 
considered to be mundane, non-elite labor, surprisingly accessible to the 
average white-collar woman or to anyone who possessed basic skills in logic, 
math, and reasoning. Making the actual hardware was viewed as masculine 
and interesting, whereas writing the code was viewed as feminine and 
secretarial. In many ways, women working with computers aligned with the 
traditional gender stereotype that women should execute instructions; they 
were needed to do the menial work of testing the programs until they finally 
worked. 
The Times piece proceeds to explain that it was only with the advent 
of the personal computer in the 1970s and ‘80s that the demographics of computer science began to change. As personal computers entered wealthier 
households, more privileged children began to spend their spare time 
tinkering with them and exploring the functions of computers. Parenting 
techniques shifted to reflect the presence of the computer as yet another 
gendered factor of raising children. Unsurprisingly, it became more likely for 
boys to be gifted computers than girls. Boys played with electronics and girls 
played with dolls — that’s just how it was. 
Privileged boys started to enter university computer science classes with 
heightened levels of programming experience in relation to other students, 
especially women, who had little to no knowledge of programming due 
to their lack of exposure to computers. An elite culture developed around 
computers and computer science, leading many of those who lacked 
the privilege of having satisfied what became these unspoken coding 
prerequisites for many university CS programs, as well as those who 
struggled to keep up with the pace of these programs, to feel like impostors. 
While many of these computer science stereotypes continue to persist, 
UCSD is taking steps to combat impostor syndrome and make CS more 
accessible to a broader variety of students. CSE Professor Christine Alvarado, 
who focuses on engaging underrepresented groups in computer science, is at the helm of many of these efforts. 
As a professor in a highly competitive field like CS, she frequently 
notices signs of impostor syndrome among her students. “There are a good number of students who feel like they don’t belong, ” she observed. “It’s often 
because they struggle and they think that nobody else is struggling. They 
think something along the lines of ‘Oh, somebody’s going to notice that I’m 
struggling and point out that I shouldn’t be here. ’”
Alvarado has started to check in on her students via i-clicker questions 
to better understand to what extent impostor syndrome impacts her CS 
students at UCSD.
“I’ll ask, ‘Have you ever doubted yourself or felt like you didn’t fit in 
because of something we did in this class?’” she said. “ And a preposterously 
high number of students will say yes. They’ll say that they doubted their fit, 
because the class was challenging or because they got stuck on something 
they feel like they shouldn’t have been stuck on. ”
Many of these feelings of inadequacy can also be attributed to a more 
UCSD-specific CS microculture. A lot of UCSD CS students tend to 
prioritize a certain level of academic achievement that leaves little room 
for mistakes or uncertainty. Alvarado also described the pressure to earn 
a prestigious internship, preferably at Google or Facebook, as yet another 
factor contributing to feelings of imposter syndrome. There seems to be 
an unspoken narrative that there’s one correct, career-driven goal of being a 
UCSD CS student and that any deviation 
from the path marks you as an outsider 
from the predominant culture. 
Yet one of the most unique things about 
UCSD, Alvarado believes, is the diversity 
of the student body. Students from all 
backgrounds and levels of experience enter 
the program, but upon seeing the strength 
and prestige of the CS department, it’s easy 
for many to believe that such a heightened 
level of experience and achievement is the norm even when it only represents a small percentage of UCSD’s undergraduate population. Such feelings 
additionally contribute to feelings of imposter syndrome among CS students. 
Because not all students enter UCSD with the same level of CS 
experience, Alvarado developed the Early Research Scholars Program to 
engage undergraduate students in CS research. 
“The hypothesis was that, by engaging students in research in their 
first two years, they would become more connected to their peers and the 
CS department, ” Alvarado explained. “This was particularly for students 
who weren’t as experienced coming into college. So women, students from 
underrepresented racial and ethnic groups, first-generation college students 
— all of these students tend to have less exposure to CS before college. And 
that can basically make them feel more excluded when they come in because 
they see all their peers and feel like imposters. ”
 The program puts second-year undergrads into teams of four and 
matches them with already existing research projects in the department. Then, later on in the year, they get to engage in their own independent 
research. Examples of research projects have focused on analyzing cancer 
research, ranking the relevance of online reviews, and estimating ocean 
depth. 
“My hope is that [the program] show[s] them what they could do, ” 
Alvarado said. “That it gives them confidence to see that they can do more 
than just the problem sets in their classes, but they can actually have an 
impact on a real-world problem. ”
 UCSD is taking other initiatives to make CS more equitable. Even 
so, there is still much for students to do because many cultural factors 
furthering impostor syndrome are perpetuated by the student body. “Some 
of it is just getting away from this notion that you either get it or you don’t, ” 
Alvarado said about steps students can take to combat impostor syndrome 
on a personal level. “Taking more of the attitude to realize that some people 
learn quick, but also that it takes some people a lot of time. It takes some 
people less time and sometimes that’s because they’ve had a lot of experience 
that they learn it faster, but treating it as something that everybody can learn, 
rather than you’ve got it or you don’t. ” 
The  Role  of  Imposter  Syndrome 
in  Computer  Science
The Guardian explores how impostor syndrome reinforces the gender gap for computer science students.
By LARA  sanli      senior staff Writer
“There seems to be an unspoken 
narrative that there’s one correct, 
career-driven goal of being a UCSD 
CS student, and that any deviation 
from the path marks you as an outsider 
from the predominant culture.”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
Every Thursday morning in the Women’s Center, gathered high above the bustle 
of campus, a group of students explores what it means to be human. They’re a part of Principles of Clarity, a one-unit seminar headed by psychology 
Professor Karen Dobkins. The class revolves around practicing mindfulness through introspection, discussions of experiences, and meditation.
This particular morning while on the subject of eye contact, Dobkins goes from 
student to student, taking a long pause in front of each to gaze into their eyes. A peaceful silence falls as she has a beautiful moment of connection with each student, uncovering joy, sorrow, wonder, and pain. Then she sits back down.
“I could look at each of you for an hour. There’s so much joy in seeing someone. ”Dobkins joined UC San Diego’s psychology department as a professor in 1995. 
Coming from a background in neuroscience, she conducted research on the cognitive development of infants and children up until 5 years ago.
“I realized, I don’t wanna do that work anymore; it’s not feeding my soul. Sure, I’m 
successful and I’m making money and I’m publishing papers, and I have a big lab full of employees and postdocs and the dream, but I wasn’t fulfilled by the dream, and I 
had to really take an honest look at myself and say, ‘Why am I not really happy with 
my research?’ And the answer is because again I realized that the questions I was asking weren’t the questions I was dying to know the answers to. ”
After 25 years with the university, Dobkins found a question that she was dying 
to know the answer to: Why was she seeing more and more depression, anxiety, and loneliness in her students?
“I’ve seen students more worried about their future; I’ve seen them not really 
present in the classroom. And it saddens me because it wasn’t like that when I was in college. In fact when I was in college, none of us were worried about what we were going to do after college. When we were done, we all sort of went, ‘Ok, now I’ll figure out where I’m going next. ’”
Dobkins has seen this decline in students’ mental health firsthand during her office 
hours.
“When I hold my office hours for my big undergrad class, which is behavioral 
neuroscience, I’ d say almost the whole two hours of my office hours, the room is filled and we’re talking about life because the students know that this matters to me. ”
With her growing concern for her students’ mental health, Dobkins shifted her 
research to the subject of mindfulness and well-being. Despite having joined a field where she had zero experience and accolades, she’s much more content pursuing research that genuinely interests her.
Data from her lab shows that UCSD students are experiencing levels of loneliness 
higher than the national average.
“ According to the UCLA Loneliness Scale, on average across all universities the 
mean score [of loneliness] is something like a 39, 40. And we at UCSD are at a 46, 47. So we’re way above the national mean, ” she explained.
So why are UCSD students so lonely? Dobkins believes it comes down to a 
number of factors: the partitioned layout of the campus, the academically competitive atmosphere, and the large population of transfer and international students who tend to experience higher rates of loneliness.
“International students are literally 10,000 miles away from home, away from their 
families, in a completely new environment, ” said Dobkins.
As for transfer students, she continued, “It’s hard to get connected and find your 
community. People have already made their bonds during freshman and sophomore year, and now here you are, a junior transfer student coming in. ”
Dobkins will further explore this question in 
an upcoming town hall meeting titled “Why is UCSD Lonely?” She’ll be joined by speakers Josh Abrego, class of ’19, and Earl Warren College junior Zahabiya Nuruddin, who have both led various 
mental health awareness efforts at UCSD. The 
purpose of the town hall meeting is to introduce Dobkins’ proposed solution to UCSD’s well-being predicament: the Learning Sustainable Wellbeing (LSW) initiative.
The ultimate goal of the LSW initiative is to implement a mandatory, 1-unit 
seminar on well-being — like Principles of Clarity — to be completed within the first two years of an undergraduate career. It is the responsibility of the university, Dobkins asserts, to cultivate mental wellness for its students through its curriculum.
“I really believe there will be a point in our evolution where humans look back and 
go, ‘Yeah, of course 8 billion people all agree that schools have some well-being course. ’ I think it’s the responsibility of the education system to bring in that component of education to the curriculum, which is how to be a human, how to actually navigate. 
“I don’t have to convince you that there’s so much craziness in this world; there’s 
so much hatred, there’s so much killing, judgment, why? I really believe if all children were brought up consciously, we would eradicate all of that stuff in a couple hundred years. ”
Since the initiative’s inception in 2018, Dobkins has been working with various 
UCSD administrators to realize her efforts. She hopes to enact a two-year pilot program for the LSW initiative during which one of the six undergraduate colleges would adopt the seminar as a general education requirement. If this initial program proves to be effective for students’ well-being, then the university could further expand it to a campus-wide General Education requirement.
This would mean scaling the seminar, which is currently taught to a class size of 25, 
up to a 100-person lecture. Dobkins noted that this would require multiple professors, including herself, to lead multiple seminars.
“Part of my dream with the LSW is that it’s the professors themselves who teach 
these well-being courses. You could hire outside people who are in fact trained in 
well-being. But I like the idea of the professors teaching these courses because first 
of all, they say that the best way to learn something is to teach it. All of a sudden, the professor who’s teaching the course wakes up, starts the work themselves. “I think if the professors are teaching these courses it would also help with the 
connection between profs and students because that’s lacking on this campus. Students don’t feel seen by their professors. ”
In collaboration with Assistant Vice Chancellor of Student Retention and Academic 
Success Jeff Orgera, Dobkins and her team are currently looking at academic records to see if there’s a relationship between GPA and well-being. Additional research in support of the LSW initiative includes examining the correlation between loneliness and mindfulness in students. Dobkins and psychology graduate student Taylor Bondi have found a strong, negative correlation between the two –– it’s clear that practicing mindfulness could very well be a solution to UCSD’s loneliness problem. 
Dobkins and her lab have also been gauging student interest in having a 
mindfulness seminar as a GE requirement. Comparing data from around 8,000 students, the majority of students see the value of a one-credit, well-being class. This held true with the undergraduates I surveyed myself.
Nelson Espinal, a Roger Revelle College freshman, said, “I think it would have been 
beneficial to have a class like that since it could have provided a few tips on having better mental health. I haven’t encountered many mental health resources during my time here. I know there is Counseling and Psychological Services, but I don’t think it should be therapy or bust. ”
Warren junior Alex Rickard agreed, saying that such a class would be especially 
helpful to first-year students.
“I think that too many teenagers come out of high school without proper coping 
mechanisms for failure and even being average, ” Rickard said. “Giving students these abilities at the start of their college career would prepare them for success and increase the quality of a UCSD education. Maybe it could even be packaged with the first-year experience classes. ”
Dobkins’ data shows that, among those who say 
they would want a well-being class, older students are more likely to express interest.
“If you look at the distribution, it’s tilted toward 
the older students, which I think makes sense because I think you don’t even realize it until you’ve been here. Because then you go, ‘Yes, that would’ve been nice to have a well-being class, ’” said Dobkins.
This was certainly true for the students who 
were nearly or recently graduated. Alma Trinidad Javier, a John Muir College senior, reflected, “I 
believe a mindfulness class would have been beneficial. It would have been a good way to know how to deal with stress. I think it’s important to make it mandatory as well because we all deal with stressful situations in college. We all go through it. ”
Rebecca Chhay, Muir class of ’18, shared a similar sentiment: “I would have loved 
a seminar. I’ve done some meditation retreats before, and whenever I mentioned it to other students they’re always really interested in hearing about my experience. I think it would be popular. ”
That’s not to say, however, that every student is totally on board with the LSW 
movement. Jenny Lee, a Sixth College freshman, expressed, “Ideally, I think any class on how to do life is helpful. But realistically, I don’t think I could have gotten comfortable talking about these topics with people I don’t know. I think I would be too shy to talk about something I consider to be a bit personal. I would prefer to learn these things one-on-one with a friend or counselor. ”
Lee continued, “It’ll feel like a chore at first — like how people see their writing 
sequences — but then if the class is good enough in capturing our attention, it’ll work. ”
Having established that student interest in a well-being class is there, now it’s just 
a matter of pushing for change.
“This loneliness at UCSD takes, in my opinion, a paradigm shift, a real change in 
how we’re thinking about education. That education is more than academics, ” said Dobkins.
“I know it’s gonna be bumpy for the first few years because it’s a whole new idea, 
but it can happen just like any big change has happened. Because people sort of realize there’s a need for it, they’re willing to go through the bumpiness to make it happen. ”
The town hall meeting “Why is UCSD Lonely?” will take place on Tuesday, June 4 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Price Center East Forum. 
MANDATORY  MINDFULNESS
Professor Karen Dobkins discusses her vision of integrating a well-being class into the 
undergraduate general education curriculum.
By  Jade  knows  his  gun-wong       Features editor
“It is the responsibility 
of the university, Dobkins 
asserts, to cultivate mental 
wellness for its students 
through their curriculum.”Professor Karen Dobkins leads her seminar in an exercise on mindfulness.
A&E EDITOR // CHLOE ESSER & DAISY SCOTT 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Y ou’ve seen his work around campus — dining halls, Ridge W alk, even Geisel Library. The Guardian sits down with none other than the “Googly 
Eye Guy. ”
Anyone can, theoretically, claim that they’re behind 
the googly eyes trend on campus. So why you?
Well, I did it in high school, and I started doing it 
here as well. I’m not the first person to ever do it in the 
world. There’s even a subreddit for it, which I didn’t find out about until I started doing it here. But I didn’t invent 
the hobby. But I guess I’ve been doing it for a while now. 
I’m pretty sure I’m the first guy to do it at least at this university.
Why did you start doing this? Did you have any 
inspiration, any purposes in mind?
No, not really. In high school, it was because my 
classes were fairly easy, I didn’t really have anything else to do, I was just bored. I thought it was really stupid, but it made me laugh seeing them on garbage cans. I thought it was funny. I don’t know where I first saw the idea of that; I assume somewhere on the internet. But it’s not an original idea that I had. I didn’t invent it.
Could you describe your process and methods?
When I first started, I bought them at this craft store, 
but you had to put tape or glue on the back, and I used 
tape so you can take them off easily ‘cause I didn’t want 
to permanently vandalize anything. So I started out with 
tape, and then sticky tack that you hang up posters with. 
Those were kind of slow and inefficient. That’s what I started with here, too, but after I ran out pretty fast, I bought a bag of, like, five hundred on Amazon, and they came with a thing you peel off and it just sticks on the back. That was a real game changer.
I have a habit now of seeing faces in inanimate objects. 
Whenever there’s a circle or people. Like pictures, posters.
What was the first thing you “googly eyed” at UC San 
Diego?
I don’t remember. I think it was a trash can or 
something. I think it was either one of the trash cans in Sixth College by the apartments — which is where I live — or maybe one of the dryers in the laundry place; I’m not sure.
What was your latest?
The last one I did … Oh, yesterday morning [Thursday, 
May 9] I was really conflicted about this one. You know, 
in Pines there’s the “Chef Ivan” picture — he seems like 
a really chill guy. I saw that picture of him a while ago, 
and I was like, “Oh, I should do that, ” but then I thought, “Well, that’s a person, ” and I don’t want people to think I’m being a d--- or disrespectful. But in my head, I don’t really think of it as, like, disrespectful. I just think, “Hah, look it’s funny. ” But I don’t want people to think I’m a d--- or something, so I didn’t do it. But I guess yesterday, I was particularly bored or something. I was just looking at the picture of him, and, I don’t know, maybe it was his facial hair or his hat or his facial expression; he just seemed like a guy who wouldn’t really care about it. So I made an executive decision.
Have you ever been close to getting in trouble?
No. Okay, kinda by The Village at Torrey Pines, there 
are silhouettes of people on banners for Rady School 
of Management. I did those, and I had to stand on the railing to do it. It was after I broke my collarbone, so it was kind of physically difficult, but I climbed on there. I waited until I didn’t see anybody, but one guy walked by and was like, “Oh, are you the guy that’s doing that?” And I was like, “Yeah, that’s me, ” and he said he enjoyed my work. So, yeah, nobody’s been like, “You damn degenerate kids and your pranks. ” I think of it as a pretty innocuous thing, but you never know.
They’re easy to remove, too.Yeah, if you don’t like it, or if you are offended, you 
can just take them off. But at my high school — it was a Catholic high school — we had a bunch of pictures of religious figures and stuff, and I never did those. I didn’t want my school’s administration to suspend me or something. I’ve been trying to walk the line between innocuous and harmful.
How many things have you googly eyed?
Oh, man. The bag I get off Amazon — depending 
on how big the individual eyeballs are, the bag could 
have anywhere between 100 to 1,000. I don’t know, I would say over 1,000, at least. But a lot of them get taken down really quickly. There are some that I put up in, like, October that are somehow still up now, but there’s also some, like whenever I do dining halls, I always get taken down by the next day. [He jokes.] Yeah, it’s really demoralizing. No, I don’t really care. Like, at OceanView Terrace, I go there a lot because the pizza’s good and they’re open late, but I always do the soda 
machine, and it’s always down the next day. It’s 
real disappointing. Sometimes when you peel 
them off they leave a little white adhesive, so I 
always see those. I can always tell when they’ve been taken down.
When did you first start doing it at UCSD?
I started doing it right when I moved here, 
which was late September or early October.
Which ones are you most proud of?
The two that I’m most proud of got taken 
down pretty quickly — I don’t know if you saw 
them. One of them — there’s that bridge that connects Sequoyah Hall and some economics building, I think. I did those.  But the other one, the one I’m probably most proud about, was this one, but it got taken down. [He pulls out his phone and shows a picture of Geisel Library with googly eyes above the entrance.] I did it at, like, 5 a.m., and then I went home and went to sleep. And then I woke up, and it 
was not there at, like, 9 a.m., so I was really 
sad, but got the pictures.
There was someone else who did Geisel, 
but they put them in the windows, and that wasn’t me. I was kinda happy, like “Hooray, I started a trend, ” but I was also not really sad, but more like, I don’t know — I just had conflicted feelings.
You  w i sh e d  you  d i d  it ?
Yeah. You know, ‘cause I was waiting for the 
right time, for the stars to align, to do mine, and they did 
theirs first. I was waiting to do mine because the weather was really rainy, and I didn’t know how well the poster board would hold up in the rain.
What do you think of other people jumping on the 
googly-eye bandwagon?
I don’t know. Part of me is pretty stoked. It feels nice to 
start something. I guess one downside is that if somebody else does it, and they permanently vandalize something, or somehow someone gets hurt ... I don’t want it to get blamed on me because I have told people that it’s me. 
The other part of me thinks, well, if other people do it, 
if somebody gets hurt, then I can claim that it’s not me. Overall, I’ d say it’s cool because other people do it.
But one person I was sitting next to in lecture noticed 
the googly eyes on my backpack, and she was like, “I noticed you joined ‘Googly Eye Gang. ’” I think I said, “ Actually, I started ‘Googly Eye Gang. ’” And then I said, “It’s not really a gang. It’s just me. ” But that feels kind of dishonest because other people have done it, maybe as a gang — I don’t really know.
It feels weird to take credit for it even though other 
people have done it, too. So now when I tell people, I 
gotta be like, “Yes, I did it, but there’s some that I haven’t 
done. But they started doing it because I started doing it, ” you know? Like, somebody asked me if I did the Geisel one that was in the windows, and I was like, “ Actually, I didn’t do that one. But I did all the other ones. ”
Do you have any tips or tricks for those who want to 
start?
The ones on Amazon you want to buy. They’re 
advertised as having self-adhesive. Those are the ones you want to buy because they’re really easy. You just peel them off and they stick.
But if anybody wants to do them, I would say don’t 
permanently alter something. Don’t do anything that would get me in trouble because I’ve told too many people about this. So don’t do anything that would implicate me and anything illegal or dangerous.
When I was making the big ones for Geisel, I was 
really worried about how I was going to actually stick them there. I was going to use tape, and I had duct tape and packing tape, and they were both pretty sticky. That’s how I stuck the black poster board to the white poster board. I figured it would work, but I went to test it one night and slapped it on the concrete to see how it would stick, but it peeled right off with no weight on it. So that was really disappointing — just threw a wrench in the works.
Then one day I had this epiphany that I don’t need to 
actually stick the big eyeballs on the concrete. I can just tie fishing wire around something heavy and just hang it over the other side. I used a brick. I was kind of worried. I always try to imagine the worst case scenario. I figured maybe somebody tries to pull the eyeball down and it pulls the brick over and kills somebody. But I guess that didn’t happen, so we’re all right. So don’t do anything that would hurt anybody, and don’t do anything that would get me in trouble because I’ll be upset.
But, no, the more, the merrier. It’s a fun hobby. Plus if 
you ever have to say an interesting fact about yourself, if you’re in a new class, that’s a pretty good one. Like, “Oh, one thing I like to do for fun is mildly vandalize things. ”
Have you used that?
Not in classes because in the past, the first person I 
told reacted very excited, like, “Oh my god, that’s you?!” 
It was weird; this campus is so big, I never expected anybody to actually notice more than one or two of them.
How long do you think you’ll keep doing this?
Till I’m dead, I guess. [He laughs.] It’s a weird hobby, 
but so far it hasn’t gotten old. You think it would get old, 
and honestly I’m the type of person that criticizes other people for doing the same thing over and over again. Like, all my acquaintances who were at my high school would smoke weed every weekend, and I would always make fun of them, like, “Doesn’t that get boring after a while?” and they’ d be like no. But here I am doing this every weekend. And it doesn’t get boring. I don’t know, it’s weird, it’s like one of the things that actually makes me laugh sometimes ‘cause it looks funny, I guess.
Finally, what do you plan to googly eye next?
Well, I did my two big ones. I made those pairs Dec. 
11. After I got rid of those, I thought, “Well, I’m done 
now. What do I do next? I can’t really one up that. ”
I do have some bigger googly eyes. I have a drawer in 
my apartment that’s full of them. You know those sphere things outside of Center Hall? I’m going to do those. But honestly, after that I probably don’t have any big ones. I’ll just keep doing the little ones. You run out of ways to increase the scale of it.
It’s nice being at a university because it’s a contained 
area where the same people go to the same places every day, so it’s bound to catch on more or become more known. But after I graduate, if I work for some company or something, I’ll probably do that, but if I’m self-employed or whatever, I’ll just walk around whatever city I live in and just throw them everywhere. Maybe, I don’t know. I’ll figure it out. But for now, it’s a fun, weird, stupid hobby that makes me laugh and hopefully other 
people.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
— Natalie  Tran
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF @KIMBERLYVENA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICESI CHOOSE TRANSIT.
How I get there deﬁnes me.
Mobile 
TicketUC San Diego  
STUDENT SUMMER
TRANSIT PASS
Use your phone as 
your mobile ticket to ride with the
COMPASS CLOUD APP  Buy a Summer Pass on Compass Cloud and get 
unlimited rides on MTS and NCTD buses, Trolley and SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express routes excluded.) 
Current registration/enrollment for Summer Sessions  
or continuing students from Spring 2019 to Fall 2019 required.
summerpass.ucsd.eduExclusive student discount. 
Valid through September 30.
ONLINE SALES ONLY: 
JUNE 19 – AUGUST 31Head-to-Head: Marvel Cinematic Universe
It’ s the franchise that needs no introduction. From “Iron Man” to “ Avengers: Endgame, ” there’ s no 
denying that Marvel has been a major cultural force for well over the last decade. For better or worse, it’ s brought actors out of obscurity and into the spotlight, helped push geek culture into 
the mainstream, and defined this century’ s franchise films. If you’ve managed to go the decade without running into something related to the Marvel Cinematic Universe at least once a week, then you might 
be living under a rock. (And, god, I wish I was there with you). 
But with the recent release of “Endgame” marking the “end” of the first “arc” of the “story, ” the 
conversation we should be having about Marvel isn’t about whether it’s annoying or omnipresent, or 
whether you personally enjoy superheroes or its long battle scenes. It’ s about Marvel as an industry, and 
it’ s also about the way that Marvel has failed both as a storyteller and as a business with integrity. 
The storytelling aspect becomes obvious in massive crossover events like “ Avengers: Infinity W ar, ” 
but this same logic applies to every trilogy following a single superhero. If I enjoyed the first Captain 
America movie, I can’t enjoy the rest of his trilogy on its own; at the bare minimum, I need to be familiar with the entire Avengers franchise to understand “Civil W ar. ” The picture becomes even more convoluted as we look at films like “Infinity W ar, ” and even the franchise as a whole — a tangled spider web of disparate storylines and characters who half know each other. Marvel’ s penchant for handing off the torch to director after director without having a clear vision on the franchise’ s narrative direction is hardly conducive to storytelling. But what does Marvel care for storytelling? This is not a creator carefully weaving together a story with a “Game of Thrones”-ian number of points of view — this is a business looking for return customers. W e can see this in the “spoiler culture” that follows Marvel around: 
Learning who lives or dies seems to matter more than the story itself. This is also a reality on the movie 
sets. The Russo brothers reportedly did not even let T om Holland know who his character would be interacting with during filming. The earliest films, arguably Marvel’ s best, made audiences invested in the characters. And boy are they cashing in. 
This isn’t all that unusual — it’ s Hollywood after all — but what makes Marvel so noteworthy is the 
absurd lengths it has gone to create a ridiculous number of films on a regular basis. This isn’t a matter of rolling your eyes at a sixth “The Fast and the Furious” — there are 22 total films in total in the “Infinity Saga, ” with more to undoubtedly join the universe. In its very structure, Marvel has rendered the telling of a single, overarching story impossible, while simultaneously disallowing smaller, self-contained stories 
from taking place within the main framework. If it’ s not a story, or some kind of superhero anthology, 
then what is it? 
I think we all know the answer: It’s a product.Of course, there’ s the most recent argument that despite its faults, Marvel’ s portrayal of superheroes 
from marginalized communities has been historically significant. This is a recent argument because, until last year, there was no evidence to support it. Y ou won’t hear me arguing that “Black Panther” was a good film, but having your first superhero film with a black lead in 2018, after years of black characters like The Falcon being sidelined, is inexcusable. And yes, Marvel cried “girl power” with “Captain Marvel, ” its first female-led film (yes, you read that right. It’ s first, in 2019, a full 11 years after the franchise’ s first 
installment), which was also partially funded by the U.S. military in order to promote women joining the 
Air Force (yes, you read that right too). But only putting these films out now, after DC’ s “W onder W oman” already proved that female-led films were a safe bet, is far from revolutionary. Instead of being celebrated for their alleged inclusivity, Marvel should apologize for not creating these types of films sooner.
The MCU has certainly had its high points over the years. With the time and money that was invested 
in the 22 films, it would be a shock if none of them were winners. But as the franchise has evolved, true storytelling has been sacrificed for the sake of plot twists and big-budget battle scenes. And this is Marvel’ s insurance: it doesn’t matter if the actual story fails as long as audiences are still hooked on knowing what happens next. It’ s a formula designed for profit, and it’ s one Marvel has mastered, caring very little that 
the cost of doing business is only its soul.I did not grow up watching Marvel films in theaters. Sure, I watched them when they came on 
FX or ABC Family on a Saturday night, but I did not by any means keep up to date with the latest fan gossip or plot twists. This all changed once I reached college. Out of a mere social 
curiosity to see what the fuss was about, and my friends’ persistent requests, I decided to catch up on the Marvel films that I had not seen when everyone else did. I began this marathon with 
an open mind, expecting to be entertained but not wowed, to enjoy the films but not to start a 
new obsession.
Considering my stance in this debate, you can deduce that this is not what happened. Once I started what was supposed to be my brief, educational marathon, I couldn’t stop. I 
watched eight Marvel films that week — and it was Week 5 — culminating in seeing “ Avengers: Infinity War” in theaters that following weekend. Those of you who have seen it can relate to my 
reaction. I left that theater bleary-eyed, drained, and completely hooked on Marvel films. 
The reason I share this anecdote is not to argue that my experience is universally applicable, 
but rather to express that there is an undeniable charm to the Marvel franchise beyond others’ 
claims of the influence of nostalgia. On a superficial level, all their films boil down to predictable themes such as good versus evil, or that heroes are found in even the most unlikely places. Y et there Marvel’s adherence to tropes stops. Many people don’t understand that you’re supposed to watch Marvel films for the community as much as the stories. What is truly compelling about a Marvel film is that each character is so well developed that they seem to act beyond any preconceived plot-based notions. It is so easy to imagine Marvel characters interacting with each 
other and living beyond the scenes canonically shown on screen. For many viewers, watching a 
Marvel film doesn’t feel like your average movie. They are a return to a familiar yet distant world.
In the Marvel Universe, there is a hero for everyone. I don’t mean in terms of representation 
per say, although with recent films such as “Black Panther, ” “Spiderman: Into the Spiderverse, ” and “Captain Marvel, ” clear steps have been taken to represent more communities. It remains evident that Marvel, along with the rest of Hollywood, still has a long road ahead of them in terms of inclusion. Yet beyond this dilemma, every Marvel viewer has their favorite hero, a figure that they connect with on a more intimate, emotional level than all the others. This is the character you secretly hope to get as your result on “which Marvel character are you?” Buzzfeed 
quizzes, whose actions make you dig your nails into your chair’s armrest, who inspires you long 
after the credits (and end-credit scenes) are over. For me, this is Captain America. His constant optimism, moral righteousness, and affinity for the old-fashioned warms my heart more than any other Avenger. Yet others who prefer a more imperfect hero may opt for Tony Stark’s troubled past in weapons dealings, or those who enjoy heroes beyond this realm may find themselves drawn to Thor. And then there’s your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man, Peter Parker, still in school and doing his best, like so many student viewers. At the end of the day, heroes are supposed to inspire and encourage just as much, if not more than they’re supposed to protect. Marvel has mastered the art of ensuring that there is at least one hero who can accomplish all of 
these goals for each viewer. 
Is Marvel a major corporation? Absolutely. Are the recent films part of a larger, systematic 
franchise? Clearly, especially given that by the time this prints it’s very likely “ Avengers: End 
Game” will have grossed well over $1.5 billion globally. Y et this commercial aspect does not invalidate the quality of Marvel’s work. After all, Marvel has been developing and evolving these characters for over half a century, all the while maintaining and growing an ever eager fan base. In short, while this sounds simplistic, Marvel movies make people happy. They are reassuring, exciting, tear-jerking, and hilarious. They stir something within their viewers, and their continual ability to captivate and entertain are not easily dismissed by even the most speculative of critics. 
At the end of the day, as long as Marvel exists, there are sure to be fans that will love it 3000.Arts and Entertainment takes on a new debate: Should the Marvel Cinematic Universe get snapped, or should it stay?
SNAP IT - Chloe Esser - A&E Editor LET IT STAY - Daisy Scott - A&E Editor10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 3 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
All Tritons are familiar with the famous Stuart Collection of art 
pieces placed around campus. They have become an integral part of 
both our experiences as UC San Diego students and to our university’s online meme page. Now that we have made all the jokes we can about adjusting to the world’s biggest street lamp upon its arrival to campus, it is time to pit these creations against each other in order to reveal which one will become UCSD’s Next Top Stuart Collection Piece. So, we have one question for these unique creations … You wanna be on top?
Snake Path vs. Warren Bear
Starting from Geisel Library’s “third floor, ” Snake Path winds its 
way down into Earl Warren College, which serves as a nice shortcut to lecture halls for those coming from the northern parts of campus. With its surrounding plant life and wonderful view from the top, Snake Path is also a popular spot for graduation pictures. Though it is dreadful to make the trek from bottom to top, I will give credit to this tortuous path for knowing how to slither, but make it fashion. However, Snake Path is not the only art piece to be found in Warren. It is impossible to forget the famous Warren Bear, with its mysterious boulder build. No one seems to know how this monstrous teddy bear was put together, but for students, it doesn’t seem to matter. Whether the bear is dressed up for Valentine’s Day with heart-shaped glasses or even its own “Bear-y Potter” costume, the Bear is always ready for a good time, which is why, Bear, you are still in the running to become UCSD’s Next Top Stuart Collection Piece. 
Music Tree vs. Vices and Virtues 
Night has set once you’re out of your 8 p.m. discussion in Warren 
Lecture Hall, and you begin your trek across campus to your dorm room. The changing colors of Vices and Virtues turns the ground around you shades of red, yellow, and blue, and you stop for a second to look up. The word Anger flashes at you, slowly followed by Hope. Fitting. You continue your journey past Price Center and up the hill towards Peterson Hall, and a low hum slowly starts to fill the air. While nothing but background music in the day, the music tree’s nighttime sounds are slightly terrifying, and they make you quicken your pace. Vices and Virtues wins this round for always being able to guess your multifaceted moods. 
Two Running Violet V Forms vs. What Hath God Wrought 
Ah, What Hath God Wrought, our newest addition to campus. For 
those not familiar with the name, this piece is the 199-foot tall pole with a flashing light on top. Additionally, the flashing light actually spells out the name of this structure in Morse Code. Upon its arrival, I, in addition to many others, questioned its existence. However, over time I find its presence to be somewhat endearing. There is something fun about being able to see the flash at night from far away. Coming up to face What Hath God Wrought is the infamous Two Running Violet V Forms piece, otherwise known as the “giraffe traps. ” This piece has become a crowd 
favorite, simply due to the urban legend that accompanies these blue 
fences. Long ago, it is said that the giraffes residing at the San Diego Zoo escaped from their exhibit, running wild around the city. In an effort to catch these rogue giraffes, UCSD stepped in to build these giraffe traps to save the day and have remained on campus ever since. Though I am beginning to grow fond of our giant street lamp, nothing beats the historic Two Running Violet V Forms piece. Congrats, you legendary giraffe traps, you’re still in the running. 
Fallen Star vs. Sun God 
Fallen Star, perched precariously on top of the Jacobs School of 
Engineering building, is always a sight to behold for new students and UCSD visitors alike. Many wonder what the little blue house is for and how it got there, and it certainly gets extra points for being a more interactive piece, since people can actually enter the house. However, Fallen Star is still overshadowed by the huge bird standing on an arch halfway across campus — the infamous Sun God. With its gold crown and colorful appearance, Sun God has become UCSD’s adopted mascot. (Triton, who?) Plus, Sun God is a grade granter — walk backwards through the arch to have good grades set upon you. Sadly, Sun God’s many talents is not something Fallen Star can compete with. 
READ/WRITE/THINK/DREAM vs. Another
Who knew that the words above the doors to Geisel Library were a 
Stuart Collection piece? These words, along with the primary colored sliding doors that turn into different colors when they overlap, make up READ/WRITE/THINK/DREAM. While the message and concept is inspiring, the unfortunate location of this piece must be considered, as many students are often too tired to notice what is written on the doors on their daily walks into Geisel. A second surprising contender is Another, the large graphic in Price Center of two clocks with running text that displays the news. Another wins this round for its practicality as well as location. When you want to take a break from studying or eating in Price Center, feel free to take a look at the red text to learn something new. 
Crowning the Winner
Now, I have ten beautiful art pieces before me, but only one can 
become UCSD’s Next Top Stuart Collection Piece. Vices and Virtues and Fallen Star put up a bit of a fight, but Sun God has, of course, been a fan favorite since the beginning of the season — and the judges’ favorite as well. As odd as it sounds, this giant bird-like statue is vital to our identities as UCSD students — plus, what other Stuart Art piece has a music festival named after it? Whether you love or hate UCSD, you can always find a sense of unity with Sun God, and it’s proven it will continue to be on top for years to come.
UCSD’s Next T op Stuart Collection Piece
By Colleen  Conradi  and  Annika  olives       Lifestyle editors
The champion, now and forever.LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Staff members at the renowned Geisel Library at UC San Diego are integral in 
keeping our campus running, and each individual is an important and interesting 
part of the UCSD community. In order to learn more about the staff here at UCSD, I spoke with Kate Saeed  about her job and her life at UCSD and in San Diego. Saeed is a Manuscripts Processor for the Special Collections & Archives within Geisel Library. Special Collections & Archives holds a wide variety of resources: manuscripts, rare books, UCSD archives, Scripps Institution of Oceanography archives and many other unique or primary source materials. Special Collections is a great resource for students to do research on poetry, anthropology, past UCSD faculty, and much more! Saeed uses her research expertise in order to prepare collections for use and make them easily accessible for researchers. 
Working for UCSD is a great way to get involved in a multitude of activities. 
When asked why she enjoys working for the University, Saeed explained, “I like attending cultural events that the university offers and taking classes whenever I can. I’ve attended many concerts, lectures and plays during my 10-plus years here and have taken several classes, from conversational Russian, to improv acting, to screenwriting, to classical guitar. ”
“I learn something new every day, whether it’s a new word, a new language, a 
place on a map or different way to describe something, ” Saeed said. Through my own interactions with other students, I have observed that not everyone knows about the resources that Special Collections offers. In fact, Saeed uses library resources herself and explained, “Since I help create them, I look at our online Manuscripts & Archives finding aids quite a lot. That’s probably what I look at the most. But information can come from lots of different resources: our online catalog “Roger, ” the Digital Library Collection, and the Online Archive of California. ”
 In order to further show the personality behind the individuals in this department, 
I asked why she enjoys working in the archives. “It’s a good profession for someone who likes to organize other people’s stuff and who is interested in multiple topics. Actually, I’m very curious by nature, so if I wasn’t working in a Special Collections library I probably would be outside observing lemurs or something, ” Saeed said. 
While talking to a library staff member, I had to ask about favorite books. “I 
have lots of favorite books, so it would be really hard to pick just one. A few I’ve read recently are: Haruki Murakami’s The Strange Library and Norwegian Wood, Julian Barnes’s The Only Story, Talking it Over and Love, etc., Andre Aciman’s Call Me by Your Name … Kafka’s letters, anything Margaret Atwood, Francine Prose or Kazuo Ishiguro, ” Saeed said. I also noticed that Saeed’s desk and cubicle are nicely decorated, and she cheerfully told me about her favorite things in her workspace. “I have a lot of favorite pencils and pens. The right pencil or pen can really help get you through the day. I have a floaty pen from the Peggy Guggenheim Museum in Venice. It has a miniature gondola that floats back and forth. ” Working in San Diego is also great for Saeed’s love of nature. She said, “San Diego is obviously great for outdoors activities — hiking, cycling, walking on the beach or going to Balboa Park. I guess my favorite thing is when I see a different kind of bird or lizard or beetle that I haven’t seen before. ”  
Talking with Saeed was a great insight into the life and interests of library staff. 
Students can visit Special Collections in the Geisel library or browse their available collections and materials online. UCSD is a great community of staff, students, and faculty who work hard every day to create a unique and successful university environment. Interview with UCSD Library Staff: Kate Saeed
By Carla  al tomare       Lifestyle contributing writer
Geisel’s rare book collection includes some incredibly interesting tomes.12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  M AY  1 3 ,  2 0 1 9  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
HELPING TRITONS IN NEED
Triton Food PantryTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERMonday: 2pm-5pm
Tuesday: 11am-5pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 1am-5pm
Friday: 2pm-5pmSPRING 2019As a new cognitive science major, I wasn’t really sure what to expect of the 
professors, because of the diverse specializations that are within the department. 
However, I definitely was not expecting UC San Diego’s sarcastic sweetheart, 
Professor Taylor Jackson Scott. Professor Scott is a relatively new professor, but 
he is no stranger to UCSD, as he served as an instructional assistant for Edwin Hutchins during his studies. But enough with the formalities, let’s learn more about the life of the man behind the podium.
Hailing from the small town of Hoxie, Kansas, what Professor Scott misses 
the most is the thunderstorms. “We get some rain but I’m talking about a full-on thunderstorm, with big rips of thunder and flashes of lightning and the smell of a late summer rain, ” he notes. While he is in San Diego though, you can often run into him at the Vons off Regents Road where, “I once had a student ask me for a selfie there, ” or perhaps while he is out on a walk, listening to a podcast. Maybe in the future, you can catch him during his future travels; “Iceland, anywhere [with] very natural environments mostly because I want to do a photography expedition. ” 
As for this summer, if he isn’t teaching he will be catching up on all of the 
shows and books that he doesn’t have time for during the school year. As for book recommendations, Professor Scott suggests, “ Annihilation” by Jeff VanderMeer, “The Wind-up Bird Chronicle” by Haruki Murakami, and “The Mind’s I: Fantasies and Reflections on Self and Soul” by Douglas R. Hofstadter and Daniel C. Dennett. Summer also gives him more time to do what his students know him for: browsing Reddit in search of the spiciest memes. In fact, he prefers to start his mornings with a cup of coffee — due to his time in Seattle working on his doctorate — and browsing through Reddit to see what he has missed since falling asleep.  After consulting his account, he explained why he is into the following subreddits. 
“r/Perfectfit has oddly satisfying instances where two things fit together really, 
really well. It’s a specific thing, and I find it weirdly soothing and calming. r/perfectlycutscreams, I don’t know why they make me laugh so much, but they do. I also really [have] been liking r/shittymoviedetails, a parody of r/MovieDetails, which is its meme account. ”But like many professors, many of the most exciting parts of the job are, “For 
me, one of my favorite things is when I see students get excited about an idea. I also really like when students come to office hours and come talk about their hopes 
and fears. Those humanizing aspects of interactions between me and students, 
both in seeing them get excited about some topic or thing and interacting with them in office hours, those more one-on-one interactions are more rewarding. It keeps me going and excited to teach. Oh, and having summers off. ” If you do find yourself in his office, be sure to check out one of his favorite pieces: an abstract painting that he commissioned from his friend. In terms of artistic vision, when asked who he would switch lives with, Professor Scott responded with, “Stanley Kubrick; he’s my favorite director and I would be able to get sight into how his mind worked and his own authorial intent with his own films, and then compare them to my own. I think it would be interesting to see a body of art through the perspective of the artist, than through the audience. ” 
You might be in for some insightful advice during office hours, too. When 
asked “What would you go back and tell yourself on the first day of freshman year of college?” I was met with an unexpected response: “How much time do I have? If I can talk for an hour, it’s different. If I can say ‘Don’t go to this place at this time!’ I would probably just tell myself that it’s gonna work or like, it’s gonna be OK. I feel like as students we focus too much on our worries and anxiety. And if future you comes back and says it’s gonna be OK, it puts your mind at ease a lot. But, it’s also a paradoxical way of saying ‘It’s gonna be OK, ’ but then you don’t try as hard and then it doesn’t turn out OK. But if I knew it would screw things up or cause a time crisis, I probably would just tell myself everything is gonna be OK. ” After questioning my existence and time paradoxes for a minute, I knew I had to ask what the key to passing his class was. He responded the way he does to most questions in his class, “It depends … ”
If you ever feel like you need a human-computer interaction mentor or more 
help with his class, be sure to stop by Professor Scott’s office hours, because he offers a fun time with plenty of meme culture and great life advice for the struggling student. He left me with the following words of wisdom for all students to hear: “No decision is set in stone and you’ve always got options. Also, delete Facebook. ”
Informal Office Hours with Professor Scott
By  natalie  duprey       Lifestyle Staff writerCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ARTPOWER PRESENTS: DORRANCE DANCEWEDNESDAY, MAY 15
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
ART AND SOUL -THE ZONE
Get crafty! New and unique diy crafts each week. 
Materials provided, space is limited. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
2pm
2019 NCAA DIVISION II WOMEN'S 
TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP: UC SAN 
DIEGO VS. AZUSA P-NORTHVIEW 
TENNIS COURTS
UC San Diego will host an opening-round match 
in the 2019 NCAA Division II Womens Tennis Championship against Azusa Pacific University, Tuesday, May 14. Start time is 2 p.m. for doubles action at Northview Tennis Courts. Admission remains free for the NCAA event, but parking permits will be required. Contact: triton-tix@ucsd.edu 858-246-3121. Website: http://ucsdtritons.com/
4pm
NAVIGATING SELF -CARE - CARE AT 
SARC (STUDENT SERVICES CENTER, 
ROOM 500 )
May is Mental Health Awareness Month and CARE 
at SARC is hosting an event providing a space for 
students to make DIY self-care kits while 
exploring various grounding exercises. Giveaways 
include: scent sachets, snacks, touch stones, 
custom music playlist, calming jars Full kits 
available to first 35 undergraduate & graduate students. For more information contact careinfo@ucsd.edu. This event is wheelchair accessible. Contact: careinfo@ucsd.edu. 
12pm
MAYA VANDERSCHUIT: SOFT WAVE, 
ELECTRIC SOUL -309 VISUAL ARTS 
FACILITY
Soft Wave, Electric Soul is an MFA thesis 
exhibition of recent work by Maya VanderSchuit. The mixed-media installation uses the surfaces of digital video projections and iridescent materials to explore the body's phenomenological relationship to real and virtual spaces. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu 
7pm
MIRANDA CUCKSON, 
VIOLIN-CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER EXPERIMENTAL THEATER
Program to be announced. Contact: 
anegron@cloud.ucsd.edu
7pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE 
LOFT -THE LOFT
You know the drill, it's YATL season again! Sign 
up for our quarterly open mic featuring free fries and flatbread pizzas, catered by Zanzibar. Sign up to perform! http://bit.ly/YATL. Contact: ascemarketing@ucsd.eduTUE5.14
THU5.16
10am
UC SAN DIEGO 9TH ANNUAL 
POWWOW -MARSHALL FIELD
Event is open to everyone! 
4pm
CAMBODIAN STUDENT ASSOCIATION'S 14TH ANNUAL CULTURE SHOW -PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOM EASTSAT5.18MON5.13
5pm
ADELANTE!- MATTHEWS QUAD 
Come on a journey through Latin America to learn 
about the various cultures throughout the Latinx 
community as we understand the diaspora of the 
people and experience their culture through 
traditions, food, art, and dance. Contact: 
aaa028@ucsd.edu. 
5pm
COOKING - TAMALE 
WORKSHOP -UNIVERSITY 
LUTHERAN CHURCH
Learn the art of tamale making. In this workshop, 
you will be introduced to two types of tamales in 
the husks and the accompanying fillings and 
toppings. A must for the tamale lover! Lots of 
sampling. Yum! Contact: clsung@ucsd.edu. 
5:30pm
URIM CONFERENCE -PC WEST 
BALLROOM AB
Calling all aspiring future physicians! Discover 
different organizations and programs that offer 
various opportunities to support your journey in 
health field! Get inspired by our keynote speaker 
Dr. Khan, known as TheFemaleDoc on Instagram, 
who has overcame barriers in health field and 
successfully achieved her dream of being a 
neurological care physician! You will be entered 
into a raffle to win many amazing prizes including 
a hydroflask when you RSVP! Scan the QR code or 
click on the ticket url to register! (not required to 
attend the event) WHEN: Monday, 5/13 from 5:30 
PM to 8:00PM. WHERE: PC West Ballroom. 
Contact: hopeps@ucsd.edu. 
7:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: MIZ CRACKER- THE 
STAGEROOM
Miz Cracker is coming to campus! Your favorite 
Ru Girl will be right here on campus at The 
Stageroom. The best part? Student tickets are free 
for UCSD undergrads with a valid student ID. 9am
FLOURISH @ UC SAN 
DIEGO-STUDENT HEALTH 
SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
Want to find ways to belong, be you, and be well 
at UC San Diego? Dr. Wesley Kayne and a wellness Peer Educator provide fun ways to help you flourish! Topics will include: managing stress, building social confidence, mindfulness, self-care, and self-compassion. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
12pm & 5pm
LAURYN SMITH: AS IT 
SEAMS-COMMONS GALLERY, 404 
VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
As is Seams is an exhibition of work exploring 
quilting as both a material and a subject through sewn sculptural wall pieces and vinyl wall texts. This is MFA candidate Lauryn Smith's first year review exhibition. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu 858-822-7755. 
4pm
CGIU + IBM 
HACKATHON-UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO: MET 
AUDITORIUM, SCHOOL OF 
MEDICINE
The hackathon is being organized in 
collaboration with IBM and CGI University, and aims to develop tech solutions to address global disaster response and recovery efforts. The event is open to students of all academic backgrounds and graduation years. Register through Handshake Search through the Upcoming events page until you find the IBM/CGI U Codeathon. Contact: cgiu@clintonglobalinitiative.org. FRI5.17WED5.158pm · MANDELL WEISS THEATRE
12pm
GRACE MAE HUDDLESTON: DIRTY 
WORLD, ACCIDENTAL GIRL -PERFORMANCE SPACE, VISUAL 
ARTS FACILITY 306
Dirty World, Accidental Girl is an immersive 
exhibition of dystopian drawings in an acidic 
color palette. The series of drawings work with a 
collection of creative writing to tell the story of a teen girl and her experiences in an underworld of charismatic life. A soundtrack by John Dombroski and Lauren Jones add to the exhibition's rich sensuality. Last but not least; this opening reception event will include the release of the artist's two new self-published books. Contact: nlesley@ucsd.edu. 
2pm
RELAXATION SKILLS DROP IN 
WORKSHOP -190 GALBRAITH HALL
Come spend an hour learning a variety of basic 
relaxation skills that will help you deal with daily anxiety. You will leave with practical exercises you can apply immediately to manage and reduce the symptoms of stress in your life. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE -THE 
WOMENS CENTER
Join us for conversation about experiences as Black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. Contact: Tacorbett@ucsd.edu. Website: http://www.facebook.com/BlackWomensCollective
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS DORRANCE 
DANCE -MANDELL WEISS THEATRE
A collaboration between "one of the most 
imaginative tap choreographers working today," (New Yorker) Michelle Dorrance and company member Nicholas Van Young, ETM: Double Down celebrates the origins of tap dance, in a contemporary context, by using electronic trigger boards. Turning the entire stage into an instrument, the score is not just danced to but danced by the company. ETM, which stands for electronic tap music, features eight dancers and six musicians exploring acoustic and digitally produced sounds. Founded in 2011 by artistic director and 2015 MacArthur Fellow Michelle Dorrance, Dorrance Dance is an award-winning tap dance company based out of New York City. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu. 
9pm
'GAZA' (2019 ) FILM 
SCREENING-PRICE CENTER 
THEATER WEST
Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) at UC San 
Diego will be hosting an exclusive film screening of the still-unreleased and highly acclaimed GAZA (2019) documentary Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
MAY 13 - MAY 192019
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
HEY DR. SUESS 
CLASSI FIEDSGuardia n Class iﬁeds are  FREE for  the U C San Dieg o community.
 www .ucsdguardian.org/classiﬁeds
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKUCARS
2016 Lincoln MK-Series in San Diego, 
CA. Certified. CARFAX One-Owner. Hybrid FWD Aisin e-CVT Powersplit 
2.0L I4 Atkinson-Cycle iVCT Lincoln 
Certified Used Info: * Vehicle History * Includes Car Rental and Trip 
Interruption Reimbursement * Warranty 
Deductible: $100 * Roadside Assistance 
* Transferable Warranty * … ucsdguard-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Used Volkswagen Tiguan 2016 Night 
Blue Metallic, 32.1K miles in San Diego, CA. 2016 Pre-owned Volkswagen Tiguan for Sale. Features: Window Grid And Roof Mount Diversity Antenna, Audio Theft Deterrent, Radio w/Seek-Scan, 
MP3 Player, Clock, Speed Compensated 
Volume Control, Steering Wheel 
Controls and Radio Data System… 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Used Volkswagen Jetta Sedan 2016 
Black Uni, 33K miles in San Diego, CA. 
2016 Pre-owned Volkswagen Jetta 
Sedan for Sale. Features: Window Grid 
Diversity Antenna, one LCD Monitor In The Front, Audio Theft Deterrent, four Speaker Audio System, Radio: 
Composition Color w/5 Touchscreen 
-inc: Am-fm stereo, Compact disc player 
w/auxiliary-in and Bluetooth connectiv -
ity, Radio w/Seek-Scan … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKES
Fuji Newest 3.0 Road Bike with STI shift -
ers (Santee) in San Diego, CA. It is in very 
attractive condition, 27 speed, 43CM, 
brand new tires, carbon fork, ready to 
ride, VERY LIGHT, asking 260, please call 
or text ***. Please check my other list-
ings, I have several bikes for sale, type 
in my phone number … ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
53cm Trek Soho 3.0 Roadbike hybrid 
bike $250 (Carlsbad) in San Diego, CA. 
Was used for riding to work but now 
its just hanging in the garage. In terrific shape and was maintained at the trek shop. Just needs a new home. . Wheels 
and Tires Hubs: Shimano M525 Tires: 700 x 25 Components Brakeset: juicy 
hydraulic  … ucsdguardian.org/classi-fieds for more information
Beach Cruiser Bicycle - Used (East 
County) in San Diego, CA. Firmstrong Urban Man Single Speed - Used Beach Cruiser Bicycle 26-Inch, Black * 26-inch men’s single-speed cruiser bike for easy, relaxed riding * Classic curvy beach cruiser design with 17-inch durable steel frame and 26-inch aluminum wheels … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Structural Engineer Interns And Entry 
Level in Poway, CA - HTK Structural 
Engineers located in Poway is seeking 
*INTERNS and entry level ENGINEERS to perform structural design and detailing 
for a variety of commercial and resi -
dential projects. Knowledge of wood, structural steel, concrete masonry and 
current building codes is desirable … 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Executive Administrative Assistant at 
Luxury Fashion Company in New York City, NY - Directly support CEO and Creative Director, professionally greet and handle studio visitors and call -
ers and manage showroom and office 
appearance and functionality. - Manage 
calendars for CEO and Creative Director 
- Book travel arrangements for execu-
tives … ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Supply Chain Planner  in Seattle, WA 
- This job contributes to Starbucks suc -
cess by developing tactical and stra-tegic supply plans, and establishing 
inventory levels for assigned production 
materials or finished goods to achieve 
customer service, supply chain and 
financial objectives … ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
2
CROSSWORD SOLUTION
ACROSS
1 Edible bow ties
6 Largemouth fish10 Places
14 Twitter message
15 Provoke
16 Shimmery sushi fish17 God of Islam18 "Happy Gilmore" actor Sandler
19 Song sung alone
20 Good reason to reopen a closed 
case
23 Intent
24 Former franc fraction
25 Broad genre that began in Van 
Gogh's time
31 Important purchase for a bride
35 "__ Fideles": Christmas carol36 Miami University state
38 "Figured it out!"
39 Emeralds and diamonds
40 Enlarge, as a road42 Elvis __ Presley43 "Who am __ judge?"44 Unit of force45 Natural ability47 __ Rica49 Original thought51 LAX or JFK, for American Airlines53 Joule fraction54 Title of Obama's 2009 Cairo 
speech, and what 20-, 25- and 49-Across have in common
61 Festive party62 Tree house?63 Spine-chilling66 Like Homer's "Iliad"67 Hudson Bay native68 Furnish with more weapons69 Eraser crumb site70 Pay attention to71 Eyelid woes Indiana city of songDOWN
1 "Harper Valley __"2 Hole-making tool3 Ego
4 Rip
5 Deep down inside
6 Rodeo bull7 White House staffer8 Pole or Czech
9 Big rigs
10 One who puts on airs
11 Atop12 Soft rock13 Horse's footwear
21 Muscular
22 Birdbrain, or extinct bird
25 Hocus-pocus
26 Words that start many Keats titles27 Band samples
28 Twisty road curve
29 Beverly Hills's __ Drive
30 Alexander-Great link
32 Like some seals
33 Glistened34 Rudolph's boss37 Apprentice
41 B&B
42 Baba who tangled with thieves
44 Slap on, as paint
46 Casbah city48 Hitting sound
50 Blew off steam
52 Where second stringers sit
54 Like fine wine
55 Scruff56 Yale alumni
57 Richard of "Chicago"
58 Words of understanding
59 Hair removal brand
60 Cloudy64 Anger
65 Letters after elsSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
Why “Playing by the Rules” is More Complex than it Seems
Down 3 points with nine seconds 
left on the clock in Game One of 
the NBA Western Conference 
semifinals on April 28, Houston 
Rockets star James Harden pulled up for a game-tying three-pointer with the Golden State Warriors’ 
Draymond Green in his face. There 
was contact, Harden went down, 
the shot hit the rim, and no foul was called. The moment was a 
culmination of, to hear the Rockets tell it, a series of illegal defensive closeouts by Golden State. A fter 
the game, Harden and teammate Chris Paul were openly frustrated about the o fficiating – said Harden 
in his post-game press conference, “I just want a fair chance, man. ”
The drama following Game 
One was just the latest in a never-ending pattern of controversy about the role of referees in sports. The Rockets added fuel to the 
fire the next day when reports 
indicated they compiled a memo of 81 missed calls from Game 7 of last year’s conference finals alone. 
Ultimately, the problems stem 
from a balance that sports leagues have spent the last century trying to refine – an attempt to formalize 
the nebulous idea of ‘playing the way the game is supposed to be played’ while simultaneously weighing the safety and ordered structure of gameplay against the dangers of overregulation.
A similar situation played out 
on 3rd-and-10 with under just two minutes le ft in the NFL ’s NFC Championship game on all the way back on Jan. 20, as Rams cornerback Nickell Robey-Coleman rocked Saints receiver Tommylee Lewis before the ball even reached him – an obvious instance of pass interference. But the foul went uncalled, and it was the Rams, not the Saints, who 
would advance to the Super Bowl. 
In the wake of such injustice, 
fans often call for more objectivity; 
if we could only make calls less 
subjective, there’s less room for the officials to mess up, or so the 
argument goes. For example, the use of a video assistant referee, or V AR, in the 2018 World Cup was almost universally lauded. And 
so, like clockwork, NFL owners 
voted to allow reviewing pass interference in direct response to the Robey-Coleman hit. And that’s the answer, right? Setting aside the fact that just about everything looks like a foul in slow motion, explicit objectivity seems like the solution to bad calls.
If only it were so clear cut. 
Sometimes strict adherence to the letter of the law doesn’t give us the result we want. Just as dangerous as incorrect calls are the teams whose style of play revolves around exploiting rulebook loopholes – and chief among them is the Houston Rockets. Former player Richard Je fferson pointed out 
on ESPN’s Jalen and Jacoby that Rockets sta ff track the pattern 
of calls by di fferent referees and 
tailor playstyle accordingly, and SportsCenter host Scott Van Pelt showed tape of Harden kicking out and jumping forward on contested threes to oversell contact. Harden, last season’s MVP , has received criticism for years for abusing defensive rules, hooking opponents’ arms to simulate contact, and playing for free throws rather than good shots. 
But if the Rockets, one of the 
premier NBA teams of the last few years, have gained success through this behavior, is it really such a bad thing for the game? And maybe more importantly is it really their fault? 
It seems unfair for fans to 
criticize a team – whose only objective is to win – for doing what the rules allow them to do to reach that goal. The fact that Harden and 
Paul karate kick their legs out every time they shoot a jumper is simple game theory, and if the NBA allows this to become the dominant strategy under their rules, they are 
responsible for the unappealing 
result. Vague and confusing rules, like the NFL ’s notoriously convoluted de finition of a catch, 
or the very discretionary rules on what an NBA technical foul is, are also to blame for confusing sports fans, players, and referees further.
The cat-and-mouse game between teams trying to gain a competitive advantage and leagues trying to regulate will never end, and neither will anger at referees (after all, fans’ opinions rest more 
with whether the call goes against their team than the accuracy of the decision). We can only hope 
to avoid games where, as with 
Warriors-Rockets or Saints-Rams, being bogged down in rules and those who enforce them overshadows the players and sports we love.
BY Praveen nair
contributing writer 
pra veen nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 13, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
NCAA West Regional
vs. Azusa PacificWestern Sprints @ Rancho Cordova@ Concordia-IrvineUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball
W Tennis
M Rowing
SoftballTBD
2 PM1 PM
12 PM5/165/145/18
5/16
Softball Bounces Back from Early 
Losses, Wins the NCAA West Regional
Women’s Water Polo Knocked Out of NCAA Tournament by No. 1 USC
Triton Offense Stymied; Baseball Knocked from CCAA TournamentAs first baseman Brittney Ross-
Smith tagged out California State 
University, Chico’s final runner, 
the UC San Diego dugout erupted with cheers; players and coaches emptied out onto the so ftball 
diamond to celebrate. They had 
done it. UCSD had won game 7 of the NCAA West Regional Tournament. The season wasn’t 
over yet.
On the other side of the field, 
the Chico State Wildcat’s dugout responded to the end of the game with disappointment. For Chico State, this is the end of the road, 
the official close to its 2019 season; 
for UCSD, it is another step closer 
to the ultimate goal: an NCAA championship title.
Looking back at before the start 
of UCSD’s playo ff run, the team 
seemed out of sorts and a Regional 
title seemed unlikely. The Tritons, 
ranked No. 1 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association, split their four-game home series against conference opponent California State University, San Bernardino, ranked No. 6 in the CCAA. Though the win-loss 
ratio looks even, the Tritons were outscored 18–8 in that series with a resounding 10–0 loss in their second game. 
This disappointing level of 
performance followed the Tritons into their postseason, at least in the beginning. In the CCAA tournament, their first playo ff 
action, the Tritons dropped their first two games to California State 
University, Sonoma (5–4) and San Francisco State University (3–0) and were eliminated from the tournament for the conference they were perched atop just a few days before. 
Despite not winning the CCAA 
tournament, UCSD managed to earn a spot in the NCAA West Regional Tournament. The Tritons 
were the no. 2 seeded team, but there was still uncertainty around the team. 
UCSD seemed to dispel 
these doubts in the first round, 
defeating the University of Central Washington 2–1, marking their first playo ff win. The second round 
of the tournament, however, was when UCSD’s playo ff bug seemed 
to resurface. In game 3 of the tournament, the Tritons lost to Chico State 6–4. A fter an explosive 
start, where the Tritons scored three times in the first two innings 
and held the Wildcats to just 1 run, it looked like UCSD was well on their way to advancing to the next round. But, the Triton’s big start petered out and Chico State climbed back to win. 
With this loss, UCSD was 
bumped to the losers bracket. The 
Tritons had a tough road ahead of them, but they were not entirely eliminated. In order to win the tournament, the Tritons would have to do the following: beat Sonoma State in game 5 (which begins only a few hours a fter game 
3), face Chico State again in game 6, and then beat Chico State again in game 7 (the tiebreaker round). 
And the Tritons did exactly that. 
They took down Sonoma State 5-2 
and then beat Chico State twice in two very close games, 5–4 and 2–1, respectively, to extend their season.
Senior third baseman Maddy 
Lewis played a crucial role. In the two wins against Chico State, Lewis averaged 2 hits and 1 run 
each game and recorded 4 stolen 
bases. 
Next week, the so ftball team 
heads to Irvine, CA to face o ff 
against Concordia University Irvine in a two game series for NCAA Super Regionals. The two 
teams will play for the West Region title and a spot in the NCAA National Championship.
Top-ranked University of 
Southern California put an end to UC San Diego’s season on Friday with a 14–8 win in the NCAA quarter finals, the last match of 
the Western Water Polo era for the Tritons’ women’s water polo squad. Despite a 5-goal showing from sophomore attacker Grace Pevehouse, the Tritons (22–14) could not create enough o ffense 
to counter a balanced attack from the defending champion Trojans (26–1). 
USC started the match o ff on the 
offensive, but they hit the post five 
times in as many minutes to start the contest. The Tritons were able 
to capitalize on the dry stretch by scoring first, with team captain and 
senior attacker Krista Schneider assisting Pevehouse on a powerplay goal to open the scoring. But the Trojans wouldn’t trail for long, tying the match up just 28 seconds later; they would score twice more in the period to hold a 3–1 lead entering the second.
In the second period, the Tritons 
looked poised for a comeback, as a goal from senior center and WWPA Co-Player of the Y ear Chanel Schilling and a pair of scores from Pevehouse had the Tritons just a goal back at 5–4 with a minute to go in the half. But the Trojans would put the game out of reach down the stretch in the third quarter, scoring the next seven goals, six in the third period, to amass a commanding 12–4 lead going into the final period. 
Although the Tritons had an 
efficient o ffensive fourth period 
(with goals on 4 of 7 shots), it was just too little, too late for the Tritons. Between goals from sophomore utility player Sydney Boland and senior attacker Shelby Stender, Pevehouse notched her team-leading 65th and 66th goals of the season. But USC held on, scoring twice early in the period themselves, securing the 14–8 victory and keeping their season alive.
The Tritons just could not 
muster some of the o ffensive 
firepower that propelled them to 
a seventh straight WWPA title a couple weekends before, with Pevehouse having to carry the majority of the scoring burden; meanwhile, UCSD’s All-WWPA keeper freshman Bennett Bugelli managed only three saves against 12 goals allowed. However, the Tritons did manage a much better showing than their 13–4 loss to the Trojans in January.
On the other end, a dream 
season for USC continues. Despite the arrest of coach Jovan Vavic mid-season for his involvement in the widespread college admissions scandal, the team roll into the next round as favorites to defend their title. The semifinals feature a 
pair of California faceo ffs, as USC 
takes on fourth seed University of California, Berkeley and No. 2 Stanford University (the only team to defeat USC this season) meets UCLA.
The Tritons reached the 
quarter finals after a 12–8 victory 
over Wagner College Seahawks in the play-in game on Tuesday, led by a four-goal haul from Stender. UCSD, which had been eliminated by Wagner (30–10 overall record) in each of the last two NCAA tournaments, did not trail the entire match. The Tritons would 
lead 4–1 a fter a first quarter that 
featured two scores from Stender, and never look back, maintaining at least a two-goal cushion for the remainder of the match. Both teams shot lights out, as the Tritons scored on 12 of 13 shots and the Seahawks scored 8 of their 9. 
While the tournament run might 
be over, UCSD faces a transition to the Big West for the 2020 season. While the Tritons, who won a seventh straight conference championship this season, have not lost a WWPA match since 2012, they are looking to step up recruiting e fforts to begin their 
inaugural Big West season on the right foot.
No. 4 UC San Diego entered 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament on a seven-game win streak and a with a league-leading record of 35-–10. With newly named 2019 CCAA MVP sophomore shortstop Shay Whitcomb and company, the Tritons were heavy favorites to close out the last few games before the NCAA Regional Tournament and win the conference championship. However, two crushing back-to-back losses against California State Polytechnic University, Pomona and San Francisco State University knocked them out, and likely will move the Tritons down in seeding for the NCAA Division II tournament. For game one of the CCAA 
tournament, the Tritons took on Cal Poly Pomona falling by a final 
score of 3–2. Whitcomb, a .335 hitter with 8 home runs and 36 RBI this season, has been amazing all year for UCSD and in his first 
at-bat since being awarded league MVP , he sent a 1–0 pitch over the fence in the bottom of the first, 
giving UCSD a 1–0 lead. The game 
remained close for its entirety, as each team relied on its defense and pitching in a game that featured only 8 total hits combined. Senior utility RJ Prince added to the lead in the 6th inning a fter smacking 
his 4th homer of the year to put the Tritons up 2–0. 
However, a fter 5 scoreless 
innings from sophomore right-handed pitcher Noah Conlon, the Mustangs got to junior reliever Ted Stuka a fter giving up 2 hits, a walk 
and issuing a wild pitch in the 7th. And after manufacturing another 
run in the 8th, the Mustangs held on to win the game 3–2. 
The Tritons troubles would not 
end here, though, as in the next game of the CCAA tournament, in Stockton, San Francisco State (24–20–1) managed to take down the Tritons by a score of 5–1, and marked junior starting pitcher Brandon Weed’s first loss of the 
year, moving his record to 9–1. The was the first meeting of the 
year between these two teams as the series earlier in the year was cancelled due to poor weather. Offensively, the Tritons looked 
over-matched, for besides a solo home run from redshirt sophomore infielder Blake Bumgartner, the 
Tritons failed to make anything happen at the plate. For one of the few times all year, the CCAA Pitcher of the Y ear Weed was not able to keep the Tritons ahead, albeit his o ffense only provided 
him with one run. 
Although this doesn’t kick 
the Tritons out of the NCAA tournament, they may have given up home- field advantage for 
at least potentially the second game. Head Coach Eric Newman, 2019 CCAA Coach of the Y ear, remained optimistic with his ballclub, however, as in a postgame press conference for the CCAA he said “What happened over the past two days doesn’t diminish this season you had, and you get to keep playing, so let’s learn from what just happened and get better next weekend. ” 
Newman is right, the Tritons should be con fident with two 
CCAA MVPs, the CCAA ’s best record, and the CCAA ’s best coach at the helm as they head into next week where they’ll begin the postseason with the NCAA West Regionals. With a full week of rest, the Triton should be 100 percent and ready to play with some passion following the disappointing end to the CCAA tournament and hopefully are able “to learn from their mistakes” . 
BY Wesley Xiao
Senior Staff writer 
BY Praveen nair
Staff writer 
BY hayden wellbeloved
Staff writer wesley xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.edu
ha yden  wellbeloved  hwellbell@ucsd.edu
Women's softball