Governor Gavin Newsom 
sent his proposed budget, which 
includes increased spending in higher education, to the California 
State Legislature on Jan. 10, 2020. 
The budget, which is expected to be 
passed later this year, will increase 
the University of California’s core educational spending ability by 
$217.7 million.
Newsom’s total budget calls for $36 billion to be allocated toward 
general higher education spending, with $21.2 billion funded through 
property taxes and the rest funded 
through other revenue sources. 
These funds are distributed to the 
UC system, the California State 
University system, the California 
Community Colleges system, 
the California Student Aid 
Commission, and other undefined outlets.
Most notably, the UC system 
will see an increase of 1.3 percent in total state funds. This is up from the approximately $9.4 billion allocated in the previous fiscal 
year. Conversely, the CSU system 
will see a decrease of 1.4 percent 
in total funds, down from last 
years’ approximately $8.0 billion 
allocation.
According to Andrew Gordon, 
the associate director of media 
relations for the UC Office of the President, the proposed $217.7 The North County San Diego Women’s 
March held a morning rally of approximately 200 people on Saturday, 
Jan. 18, at the Oceanside Civic Center. In line with the theme of “Embrace, Educate, Empower!, ” the rally included speeches from local activists and presentations by indigenous community members.
The NCSD Women’s March was held in 
concurrence with the broader nationwide Women’s March, which included demonstrations around the country in cities such as Washington D.C., Chicago, and San Diego.
Activist Angela de Joseph, founder of 
Indivisible Watu and event producer of the Women of Color Roar breakfast, served as the emcee. The event began with a blessing and ceremony that paid respect to the local indigenous people and thanked attendees for coming.
Demonstrators held signs ranging from 
“Impeach Trump” to “Nevertheless, She Persisted” as a show of opposition to President Donald Trump’s policies.
Local activists delivered speeches on a variety 
of issues, ranging from immigration reform to environmental justice. Los Ojos Del Condor, a Chilean feminist group that seeks to educate San Diegans about events in Chile, led participants in a chant that denounced gender-based sexual violence titled “Un violador en tu camino, ” which in English translates to “ A rapist in your way. ”
“Patriarchy is a judge that sentences us at 
birth, ” the chant begins. “ And our punishment is the violence you don’t see. ”
In an interview with the UCSD Guardian, 
Congressman Mike Levin talked about the importance of the Women’s March in bringing attention to issues of concern for UC San Diego students.
“What I am hopeful of … is that UCSD 
really is a very engaged campus with student-centered concern of the future of our country, with issues like climate change and gun violence prevention, ” Levin said.
Organizations that attended the event 
included Moms Demand Action and the North County LGBTQ Resource Center, as well as various local and presidential political campaign chapters. 
The NCSD Women’s March also collected 
new clothing items for survivors of gender-based violence in donation stations around the rally site. Palomar Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanx de Aztlán, a Chicano empowerment group, presented an interactive art wall in remembrance of trans women of color who have been murdered.
Thurgood Marshall College senior Michael 
McCauley told the Guardian that he attended the Women’s March because of his agreement with their goals.
“I believe in strong, progressive policy for 
our state and our nation moving forward, ” McCauley said. “I know that [in my position] as a student, I can do everything I can to volunteer, intern, and educate myself on the political processes that encompass [all] of us. ”
The Women’s March first debuted on Jan. 
21, 2017, the day after Trump’s inauguration, and marked the largest single-day protest in United States history. The Women’s March’s mission is to “to harness the political power of diverse women and their communities to create transformative social change. ” VOLUME 53, ISSUE 13  TUESDA Y , JANUAR Y 21, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CALIFORNIA
Gov. Newsom Proposes Expanded Budget for Higher Education
Silversun Pickups with the Wrecks at The Observatory North Park in San Diego. // Photo by Francesca Hummler
By  troy  tuquero   Senior Staff wRiterACTIVISIM
North County Women’s March Draws Hundreds of  AttendeesPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"Having lost their last 
14 against UCLA, the 
Tritons’ chances at 
victory seemed slim 
at best ... but there’s a 
reason they play the 
games."
VA P I N G
MARRIAGE  STORYA  FOLLOW-UP
FILM  REVIEWFeatures,  Page 6
A&E,  PAGE 8
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Ranking universities 
on branding and 
facilities illustrates an 
inaccurate depiction 
of what type of 
success a student 
will experience 
during their time in 
college."TUESDAY
 H 60 L 51
THURSDAY
H 64 L 51
WEDNESDAY
H 61 L 49
FRIDAY
H 65 L 51
NEIGHBORHOOD...........2
DISNEY+.........................8
2010’S FASHION............10 
NEW YEAR......................12
TRITON TIMEOUT...........15Julia Nee
 Tuition and Ranking Inflation
 PAGE 4The California State budget increases the UC system’s core educational spending fund by over $217 million.
BY jacob  sutherland
News EditorMEN’S VOLLEYBALL:
A LONG-AWAITED WIN
Sports, page 16
See BUDGET,  page 2See MARCH,  page 3
Airport Authority 
Approves Terminal 
One Replacement
The airport’s Terminal One will be 
replaced after over 5 decades in use.
Terminal 1 of San Diego 
International Airport is planned 
to be replaced with a larger, more efficient facility under a $3 billion redevelopment plan by 2024. The San Diego County Regional Airport Authority Board of Directors certified the Final Environmental Impact Report for the plan on Thursday, Jan. 9.
According to airport officials, 
being more than five decades old, Terminal 1 has become outdated in design and energy efficiency. Jonathan Heller, 
Airport Authority director of 
communications, spoke to the UCSD Guardian to share insight for what sparked the need for change.
“San Diego International 
Airport is the busiest single-runway commercial airport in the U.S., ” Heller said. “It has seen record growth in passenger volumes over the past six years, and the impacts of this growth are most evident in Terminal 1. When it opened in 1967, it served 2.5 million passengers that year. In 2019, the same facility served more than 12 million. ”
In response to this, the Airport 
Development Plan revised a scheme to provide upgraded customer experience. These changes include:
- The expansion of the size of 
Terminal 1 to 1.2 million square feet .
- The addition of 19 new gates.- More gate seating, 
restaurants, shops, and additional security checkpoints with more lanes.
- A new interior, post-security 
passageway that would connect the new terminal to the existing Terminal 2 East, which would eliminate the need to pass through security a second time when moving between terminals.
If all goes as planned, 
construction is slated to begin in 2021, with the first phase of the new terminal opening for public use in 2024.
Kimberly Becker, the 
president and CEO of the Airport Authority, discussed in a post on the airport’s website about the changes the airport will be expecting in the coming year.
“In 2020, we will work toward 
several more milestones, ” Becker said. “We will advance the RFP and RFQ bid packages, we will prepare applications for the necessary Coastal Development permits with the California Coastal Commission, and we LEGISLATION
BY  shungo  najima
Contributing writer
See CHURCH,  page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
No one’s here :(
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 million increase will go to a variety 
of different initiatives. Broken 
down, this includes $169.2 million 
to support ongoing operational 
costs and student support services, 
$25 million to expand enrollment 
and increase operational support 
for the UC Riverside School of Medicine, $15 million to expand 
the UC San Francisco School of 
Medicine Fresno branch campus 
in partnership with UC Merced, 
$3.6 million to support operational 
costs for UC Agriculture and 
Natural Resources, $3 million 
for the UC San Diego Center for Public Preparedness multi-campus 
research initiative, $1.6 million for 
graduate medical education grants, 
and $345,000 for immigrant legal 
services.
Following the release of 
the budget, UC President Janet Napolitano and UC Board of 
Regents Chair John Pérez released 
a public statement expressing their 
support for the governor’s proposed higher education spending.
“The governor’s spending plan provides critical, continued funding for the UC Riverside 
School of Medicine and the UCSF 
Fresno branch campus, helping 
to expand medical care access 
to underserved communities in 
California, ” Napolitano and Pérez 
wrote. “Moreover, the proposal also invests in much-needed 
research on wildfire preparedness 
as well as crucial legal services for 
UC’s immigrant students. ”
UC Student Association 
President Varsha Sarveshwar issued a statement on the budget 
on Jan. 14, 2020, expressing support for the funding increase, 
while also outlining the intent to 
work closely with the governor 
to work on securing additional 
funding for student-related issues.
“Over the upcoming months, 
the UC Student Association looks forward to working with the 
Governor and state legislators 
to secure additional investments 
that reflect UC student priorities: investments in outreach and 
retention programs, mental health services, and resources for 
undocumented students, foster 
youth, and formerly incarcerated 
students, ” Sarveshwar wrote. 
“UCSA also hopes to work with 
the Governor’s office and members 
of the legislature to secure the 
funding necessary to avoid a tuition increase. ”
Newsom’s budget includes 
expansions for several other 
important areas of economic 
policy. Medi-Cal, California’s low-
income health care program, is 
granted increased funding for 
several projects under the new plan. This includes the allocation 
of more than $80 million to provide 
coverage for undocumented 
seniors over the age of 65, which 
is currently estimated to be around 
27,000 residents.
Another notable feature of the 
proposed budget is the emphasis on criminal justice reform. 
Newsom allocated over $24 
million for the treatment of those who are determined to be unable 
to stand trial due to mental illness or developmental disabilities.
In an effort to combat the 
recent epidemic of youth vaping 
incidents, Newsom proposed a 
$2 tax for every 40 milligrams of 
nicotine contained in an electronic 
cigarette. Revenues from this tax, 
which are estimated to reach up to $32 million by 2021, will be 
invested into programs to further 
combat youth vaping throughout 
the state.
State legislators will begin a 
thorough analysis of Newsom’s budget later this month, which will 
be followed by policy discussions and budget negotiations. The 
legislature has until June 15, 2020 
to review, edit, and pass the same 
version of a completed fiscal 
plan in both the California State 
Senate and the California State 
Assembly before sending a copy back to Newsom to be reviewed 
and signed into law.
San Diego Named Best City for 
Keeping New Y ear’s Resolution 
San Diego has been named the 
number one city in the United 
States for people keeping New 
Y ear’s resolutions, according to a 
survey conducted by WalletHub. The survey evaluated the most popular resolutions, such as 
weight loss and reducing stress, 
and summarized them into 57 key metrics including gyms per capita, 
employment outlook, and income 
growth.
The rankings of 182 U.S. cities 
were determined by the total number of points earned from each metric. WalletHub categorized the metrics into five key dimensions. 
Among them, San Diego ranked 
first on health resolution, second on relationships resolution, 27th on 
school and work resolution, 33rd 
on bad habit resolution, and 81st on financial resolution. The top three cities for 2020 are San Diego, California, Scottsdale, Arizona, and San Francisco, California.  
Lime Withdraws from San Diego 
Mobility Market 
After San Diego County banned 
the use of electric scooters on the boardwalks at Mission Beach, Pacific Beach, La Jolla Shores, and the Mission Bay Park Bayside 
Walk last December in response to 
safety concerns, Lime announced an end to its partnership with San 
Diego. The company is currently 
in the process of removing its 4,500 electronic scooters as well 
as closing down its warehouse in 
Old Town.
Since summer 2019, the San 
Diego City Council has placed a 
scooter speed limit and restrictions 
on where scooters can be parked, along with granting city officials 
the right to impound devices. 
According to the San Diego Union-Tribune, Lime and other scooter and bike companies have complained about the lack of transparency of the impounding policies. The present regulations 
on scooters was a main reason for 
Lime pulling out of the city.
Lime had been partnered with 
San Diego since February 2018 and made the city one of the first to offer both dockless bikes and scooters. The largest remaining 
scooter companies in San Diego 
now include Bird, Spin, and Lyft.  
The Shutdown of Coal-Fired 
Plants Proven to Save Lives and 
Increase Crop Yield 
UC San Diego environmental 
scientist Jennifer Burney found that the U.S. transition from coal to natural gas as a primary energy 
source has saved approximately 
26,610 lives and 570 million bushels of crops including corn, 
soybeans, and wheat between 2005 
and 2016. According to her study published in Nature Sustainability on Jan. 6, 2020, coal burning generates particulate matter and ozone in the lower levels of the atmosphere, which causes human 
health problems and localized 
climate change. 
“We hear a lot about the overall 
greenhouse gas and economic impacts of the transition the U.S. has undergone in shifting from coal towards natural gas, but the 
smaller-scale decisions that make 
up this larger trend have really important local consequences, ” 
Burney said to UC San Diego 
News Center.
The inverse calculation 
suggested the damage caused by coal-fired units which were to continue operating over the same period of time could lead to 
329,417 premature deaths and the 
loss of 10.2 billion bushels of crops, equivalent to about half the typical 
annual production nationwide.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor Neighborhood  notesNeighborhood Notes is a 
compilation of short blurbs on 
what’s happening on campus and 
throughout the San Diego area.Other projects funded under Newsom’s proposed budget include expanding Medi-Cal and an e-cigarette tax
▶ BUDGET , from page 1
jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2019 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
FRIENDS
By Michi Sora
According to The Atlantic, the 
leadership of the Women’s March has 
been heavily criticized due to accusations of past anti-semitic comments. Former leading organizer Tamika Mallory and current board member Carmen Perez  allegedly stated that “Jewish people bore a special collective responsibility as exploiters of black and brown people. ” 
These controversies have led local 
chapters such as the North County San Diego Women’s March to try to distance themselves as independent from the national organization.
The first Women’s March notably 
excluded pro-life feminist organizations such as New Wave Feminists and And Then There Were None. A number of local organizers have since created a splinter group, March On, after criticizing the New York-based Women’s March’s lack of “resonance” with red states.
The NCSD Women’s March plans to 
announce a conference in the coming weeks to further shine a light on issues discussed at the rally.
must clear one more regulatory hurdle with the federal environmental review process. ”
The Airport Authority is already on 
its way to addressing some of these environmental concerns. They are currently building solar panels on terminal roofs and carports in parking lots to generate renewable electric power for the airport and making a stormwater capture system at the Terminal 2 Parking Plaza to reduce runoff to San Diego Bay. 
Additionally, it is one of two airports in 
North America to reach Airport Carbon Accreditation Level 3+, or “carbon neutrality” .
The redesign of Terminal 1 will 
also include numerous roadways and transportation improvements to make it easier for everyone to access the airport. One of the aforementioned future programs is to develop an all-electric shuttle service that would carry transit 
passengers between Old Town Transit 
Center and the airport.
“The Airport Authority has been 
working with SANDAG, the Port District, the City of San Diego, MTS, NCTD, Caltrans, the County of San Diego and other regional agencies to assist in their efforts to analyze circulation around the airport, as well as to determine the best transit solution for carrying people to the airport, ” Heller said. “ A proposed on-airport entry road would remove an estimated 45,000 cars per day from Harbor Drive. ”
In addition to providing expanded 
electric vehicle charging infrastructure, the ADP’s strategic alignment with the City of San Diego’s Climate Action Plan will also create a bicycle path on Harbor Drive, as well as new incentives 
to promote alternative commuting 
habits among employees. The plan also includes further efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
Finally, as a benefit to San Diego 
citizens, the airport has also created a big economic impact on the community.
In 2018, the Airport Authority 
conducted an Economic Impact Study for the airport which indicated a dramatic increase in regional employment, 
payroll, and economic impact as a result 
of the airport. The study quantifies the airport’s total economic contributions to the region at an additional $12 billion annually.
With panned-out plans and efforts 
to overcome environmental regulations, San Diego International Airport is well on its way to opening the first phase of the new terminal by 2024. Their next step is to be reviewed by the California Coastal Commission, and get approval from the federal environmental review process. Any inquiries regarding the expansion or the airport are encouraged to be asked on their website, at https://www.san.org/Travel-Info/Contact-Us.
The NCSD W omen’s March also collected new clothing items for survivors of  gender-based violence
Plans for airport renovations include expanding upon and creating new terminal transit routes▶ MARCH , from page 1
▶ TERMINAL , from page 1troy  tuquero   ttuquero@ucsd,edu
Shungo  najima   snajima@ucsd.edu4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
As the new year rolls in, one can expect bigger and 
better things coming to universities nationwide: Bigger tuition costs and “better” facilities and 
services. Since 1988, tuition costs have increased by 213 percent. Each year, tuition rises steadily by eight percent. This constant rise of tuition negatively impacts 
students by increasing the amount of student debt they face after graduating. In fact, the UC Board of Regents 
will meet next week to discuss the possible increase of undergraduate tuition. The steady increase of tuition 
has less to do with the level of education an individual one is receiving, but rather with the types of favors and accoutrements the student receives.
The inflation of college tuition started with the passing 
of the GI Bill in 1944. During this time, the demands for a higher level education blossomed. However, does this 
increased demand fully explain why tuition costs have 
risen from just about $2,275 in 1777 to $34,740 in 2018? Yes and no. The demand for higher education fueled the 
spread of universities, which then sparked a competition for financial gain to expand campuses and build brands 
which is how college ranking is determined to this day. 
In 1910, colleges were ranked by how many scientists 
were associated with the institution. Now, colleges are ranked more based on their facilities and brand name. So much so, that the university evaluation is called reputational ranking. In fact, much of the ranking of a college does not have to do with the rigor in the classroom, administration policy, or student success. Regardless, researchers have found that many high school students are greatly in fluenced by the ranking 
of universities when choosing what colleges to apply to. Today, the ranking of colleges and universities has become just as commercialized as the ranking system itself. Several publishers like Money magazine, The 
Princeton Review, Forbes, and U.S. News & World Report publish new college rankings annually based o ff 
of the university’s reputation and branding. 
The advancement of university facilities and services 
to achieve better rankings and students can be seen right here on the UC San Diego campus. Clicking onto the UCSD webpage, the first image that pops up is graphic 
art of Geisel Library. While some may argue that Geisel Library symbolizes knowledge and a place for learning, Geisel was likely created to bolster UCSD as a campus that integrates bold and vivid architecture into the school campus. It adds a symbol of uniqueness to the UCSD campus which in turn makes UCSD stand out from other universities. In the end, Geisel boils down to just another facility intended to grow UCSD’s reputation. 
The students at UCSD are directly harmed by the 
materialistic spending competition between universities. 
An example of UCSD playing into university competition 
can be seen in Price Center, which opened on April 21, 1989 and cost about $66 million. This in turn increased 
the student fees to cover the construction and expansion costs. The new Sixth College campus location, the 
addition of new colleges, RIMAC, and the introduction of Division-I sports are also major changes that UCSD is using to attract more potential applicants and level up in the university ranking scheme. However, these advancements take a financial toll on UCSD and its 
students. RIMAC was a $33.5 million investment that increased student fees and was a stepping stone for the transition into Division-I sports, which also added to the increase of student fees. These so-called advancements 
are additions that do not only pertain to UCSD. Many other universities have taken it upon themselves to create an area that is a social hub for students and citizens.
To find the solution for tuition in flation, one must 
strip the excessive branding and multi-million dollar facilities universities are buried under. Without the layers of commercialism and marketing, universities are at their core: learning institutions. In fact, this is why universities were created in the first place. Universities 
should not compete on the basis of branding, but rather on how enriching the education is. Universities were created to educate students, which should still be their  ultimate goal today. Universities need to focus on academics instead of creating new facilities and branding. This could decrease tuition greatly and make 
higher education  more accessible for students. This 
competition between universities has le ft universities 
stained with corporate models inside of what should be learning facilities. In fact, Richard Arum, author of “ Academically Adri ft, ” speaks about how classroom 
settings closely resemble an atmosphere where students feel like consumers. 
While some may argue that universities need to grow 
with the demand for higher education, that does not mean that the tuition costs need to increase. By changing the way universities are ranked, the issue of tuition in flation 
can be resolved. University rankings need to be based on student success, not branding and unnecessary facilities. Student success could be measured by student retention, GPA, the percentage of undergraduates graduating, the statistics of undergraduates pursuing graduate school, or the statistics of undergraduates getting a job right out of college. Ranking universities on branding and facilities illustrates an inaccurate depiction of what type of success a student will experience during their time in college. If publishers of university rankings changed the ranking system from branding and marketing to student success, then universities will realize it is not about the millions, if not billions, of dollars they spend to try and upgrade the campus. It is about the type of education the university can o ffer the student.
Tuition In flation and In flated Rankings 
From the flooded apartments at Marshall Lower 
Apartments to the daily struggle for students 
in wheelchairs to make their way throughout 
campus, we can all see the need for improvements here at UC San Diego.
Our university faces the same challenges as all the 
state’s public four-year universities and colleges: Older buildings and too little money to maintain and update them. 
Nearly 60% of the UC’s public buildings are older than 
most of us: More than 30 years old. More than 40% of the UC’s public buildings are even older: Built between 1950 and 1980. In the CSU system, half the space is 40 years or older, and a third is more than 50 years old.
Funding for capital improvements, building 
maintenance and modernization – including better accessibility – at the state’s four-year universities and colleges plummeted during the Great Recession. As 
a result, UC San Diego and all the state’s four-year 
universities have big backlogs of deferred maintenance.Throughout the UC campuses, we see the 
construction of new buildings and areas, yet there are still buildings in need of upgrades and maintenance. These aging buildings mean that many of us now find 
ourselves in housing that is not properly equipped to prevent flooding, attending lectures in seismically 
deficient classrooms, working with outdated equipment 
and occasionally shut out of certain courses because of the limited available class space. 
Among California’s youngest students, millions now 
attend classes in obsolete, unsafe and unhealthy K-12 facilities, which can harm their education and their health. 
That’s why I’ve joined the bipartisan California 
Coalition for Public Higher Education; teachers, doctors, nurses, firefighters and military veterans in supporting a 
$15 billion bond measure on the March 3 ballot. Prop. 13 will provide desperately needed new funds to protect 
the health and safety of California students in higher 
education and in pre-school to grade 12. It places a priority on fixing earthquake, fire and other life safety 
issues. 
The bond measure, which is o fficially titled the 
California Public Preschool, Kindergarten-12 and College Health and Safety Bond, was given the same number as a more famous tax measure by the Secretary of State. But this version of 
Prop. 13 will be providing funding for education. 
Proponents call it the strongest statewide school bond measure in California history. 
For higher education, Prop. 13 will provide $6 billion, 
which will be divided equally among UC, CSU and Community Colleges. It is the first bond measure since 
2006 to provide signi ficant funding for higher education 
infrastructure.
Another $9 billion will fund the removal of asbestos 
and mold; and pay for replacing outdated drinking water systems and vital repairs to ensure California’s pre-k-12 Support Education Bond Measure to Fix Old 
Buildings and Create a Better Future for our State
By: Kamron Williams // Vice President of External A ffairs for Associated Students, UC San DiegoBy: Julia Nee // Contributing Writer
See BOND,  page 5ART BY ANTHONY TRAN ART BY ANTHONY TRAN OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
u-pass.ucsd.edu
TRANSPO RTATION SE RVICES
Use your phone 
as your mobile 
ticket to ride. 
Download the 
COMP ASS CLOUD APP.
Get your Winter Quarter 
U-Pass today! Student fees provide unlimited rides for 
students on MTS buses & Trolley and NCTD 
buses & SPRINTER. (Rural and Rapid Express 
routes excluded.)
Current registration/enrollment and valid  
@ucsd.edu email address required to  
activate account.
Valid January 1 through 
March 25, 2020.schools are safe for students. California’s charter and technical schools will receive 
$100 million to make those campuses safer. 
Because rundown buildings are most o ften found in low-wealth school districts, 
the bond measure includes key reforms to ensure equitable school facilities funding by investing in districts that most need the funds. 
Prop. 13 also has signi ficant protections for taxpayer money. It requires public 
hearings to get public input, and any campus that receives funds from it will be required to develop a five-year plan to create more a ffordable student housing. Prop. 
13 also limits administrative costs and mandates independent performance audits of the projects it funds. 
In addition to making campuses safer, Prop. 13 will help us meet the demand for 
more educated workers in the future. In the next 10 years, the nonpartisan Public 
Policy Institute of California (PPIC) said the state’s employers will need 1.1 million 
more graduates with bachelor’s degrees than are expected to graduate now. 
Our colleges and universities need to have well-maintained classrooms, dorms 
and equipment to educate students and ensure our economy continues to thrive. As 
students, we can play an important role in improving our own campuses and assuring a strong economic future for us when we enter the workforce. 
We can do this by registering to vote and voting in the state’s March 3 election. If you’re not registered to vote, you need to do so by Feb. 18 by going here. If you miss that deadline, you can “conditionally” register and vote at your county elections office.
If you’re like me, and registered to vote at your parents’ home or somewhere else 
and won’t be there on election day, please get an absentee ballot by completing this form. Those forms must arrive by Feb. 25. 
The March 3 election is closer than it seems. Absentee voting will begin in February, 
and this will be a closely watched election, with presidential candidates at the top of the ballot. Please don’t stop there though! Keep going down the ballot to the ballot measures and cast your YES VOTE for PROP . 13. 
I know some of may think your vote doesn’t count or that you can’t e ffect change. But 
consider this: There have been elections in this state and this country that have been 
decided by one vote – and many more by just a handful of votes. If we come together 
under the common goal of making all Educational Facilities safer and healthier for all 
California students, then we will have the power to e ffect the change that is needed and 
ensure that is seen through to the end. 
Please cast your vote to make the improvements that will protect campus housing 
from flooding and will help ensure we have safe, up-to-date buildings and equipment 
for all Tritons. Vote YES on Prop. 13 on March 3.
Kamron Williams is Vice President of External A ffairs for Associated Students, UC 
San Diego. For more information about Prop.13, please visit http://yestohighered.org/▶ BOND , from page 4
Hundreds of thousands of feminists globally turned 
out for the fourth annual Women’s March this past 
weekend. As with any large social movement, there are bound to be disagreements amongst its supporters, and the Women’s March is no exception. With the march having just taken place, I wanted to take a moment to acknowledge and work through one of the initial and unfortunate shortcomings of the first march — misuse 
of privilege.
The day a fter the inauguration of the current occupant 
of the White House, millions of feminists around the world took to the streets to express their frustrations with the election of a president whose previous statements and actions have been anti-women. Of these millions of demonstrators, around 470,000 traveled to Washington, D.C. to protest. While many of the protests taking place 
around the world were true representations of feminist 
diversity, the one in Washington appeared a bit more homogenous — speci fically more upper-middle class.
There is nothing wrong with turning out to support a cause you believe in, especially when you have the opportunity to do so directly in spite of your oppressor. However, the problem with so many people from around the world traveling to Washington to protest in front of the White House was the fact that the costs of doing so severely outweighed the bene fits. Many of 
those who attended the march in Washington could only do so because they had the financial ability to 
take time o ff of work and a fford a roundtrip airfare and 
accommodations.
According to the Women’s March website, there were 
673 marches globally, with 408 being held in the United States. This means that most of those who traveled to the 
Washington march had a local march they were leaving behind. The amount of privilege exuded in wasting such 
funds to go to the nation’s capital for an Instagram post 
rather than attending one’s local grassroots march is a 
slap in the face to the many feminists around the world who do not have similar levels of privilege.
Those who traveled to the Washington march would have done a lot more good by attending their local marches and donating the money they saved from not traveling to Washington to feminist organizations like Planned Parenthood, the Times Up Legal Defense, and the Trans Women of Color Collective, to name a few. Going forward, the Washington march should serve as a lesson for all activists with higher levels of privilege to evaluate how best to utilize their time and resources to maximize the betterment of those in their respective movements who are struggling the most.
PC Princess: Support Your Sisters, Not Just Yourself
By: Jacob Sutherland // News Editor6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
The rapid pace at which vaping entered mainstream youth culture 
presented little time for researchers to confidently determine its safety. This lack of certain research often allows for a notion of 
safety to enter the minds of vape users, even when there might be more harmful consequences. Determining the level of safety when vaping is an ever-evolving question that requires additional research in order to track the long-term effects. The process of having these findings trickle down to people who are considering vaping or have just started has been elongated because of the vape-positive studies that came out at first that portrayed it as a safe and viable alternative to smoking. This hurdle limits how seriously it will be seen by people who currently vape.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has recently been 
providing constant updates on hospitalizations and deaths from vape-associated lung injury, also known as EVALI. Its website lists the symptoms of lung injury as “respiratory symptoms, including cough, shortness of breath, or chest pain” and “gastrointestinal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, or diarrhea” with other general symptoms like fever, chills, sore throat, et cetera. The aerosol, which is found in the smoke that is both inhaled and exhaled, has been labeled as a key cause for these symptoms because it contains compounds that can cause cancer and possible lung injury. The 
CDC started tracking EVALI in June 
2019 and provided monthly updates on its latest findings. 
According to its website, there 
have been 357 EV ALI-related deaths in 27 states as of Jan. 7, 2020. Additionally, 2,602 people have been hospitalized for EVALI. 
Recent CDC research provides potential explanations for EVALI’s 
causes, stating that“the latest national and state findings suggest products containing THC, particularly those obtained off the street or from other informal sources (e.g. friends, family members, illicit dealers), are linked to most of the cases and play a major role in the outbreak. ” 
This finding links THC, the compound that generates cannabis’s 
physiological effects, in tobacco-based vapes as a potential cause of EVALI. The CDC has not definitively labeled a certain component of electronic cigarettes as the main cause of the outbreak of EVALI because it can only draw conclusions based on its most recent sample that began in August 2019. 
According to its website, “no one compound or ingredient has 
emerged as the cause of these illnesses to date; and it may be that there is more than one cause of this outbreak. We do know that THC is present in most of the samples tested to date, and most patients report a history of THC-containing products. ”The early conclusions about vaping studies were positive because 
vaping was framed as a safer alternative to smoking. The overall feeling about vaping was generally positive despite the warnings about a lack of research. A study from the Royal College of Physicians dating back to 2016 also highlights the initial wave of positivity around vaping. 
“The hazard to health arising from long-term vapour inhalation from 
the e-cigarettes available today is unlikely to exceed 5% of the harm from smoking tobacco, ” the RCP’s Tobacco Advisory Group concluded. “Technological developments and improved production standards could reduce the long-term hazard of e-cigarettes. ” 
This past study presents current-day ramifications for a person that is 
interested in vaping or who currently vapes. They can use the RCP study to provide a foundation for a counterargument against the work that the CDC is actively doing. A back and forth occurs between older studies that endorse vaping and newer ones that shed a negative light on vaping. This constant clashing can lead to further misunderstanding.  
The brand of vape used does 
matter when it comes to EVALI cases, as there are tobacco-based vapes and also those modified to include both THC and tobacco. According to the CDC, “the most commonly reported product brand included Dank Vapes (56 percent), followed by TKO (15 percent), Smart Cart (13 percent, 
and Rove (12 percent). ” When THC 
and nicotine are mixed, there appears to be a trend of unhealthy results. The brands responsible for the high 
volume of hospitalizations and fatalities show that the combinations of nicotine and THC result in damage to the lungs. 
On a different note, the CDC reports that there are 13 percent of cases 
in which the patients reported use of tobacco-only vape products. The variety of different vapes used by the victims calls for more time needed to directly pinpoint the root cause since it is not narrowed down to a specific type of vape. It is possible that it may simplify to certain kinds of vapes eventually, but until then, generalized leads create a lack of clarity on what devices to avoid.
The Food and Drug Administration issued a federal ban on flavored 
vapes on Jan. 2, 2019 as reported by CNBC. This action was an attempt to slow down the marketing that targeted children. “The ban has little to do with the vaping-related lung illness, ” a FDA official said in the article, explaining that this policy was not meant to address the issue of THC-infused vaping products. The same FDA official also said that the THC vapes are a separate issue and their current focus is stopping younger audiences.  
The  Smoke  alarm  is  still  ringing
Recent vaping-related deaths and hospitalizations linked to certain THC-infused vapes, 
Recent research links vaping-related deaths to certain THC-infused vapes. Sta ff Writer Nelson 
Espinal provides the latest updates in a follow-up to his previous feature about vaping.
By nelson  espinal   staff writer
See VAPING,  page 7
ART BY ANGELA LIANGART BY ANGELA LIANG
“The early conclusions 
about vaping studies were 
positive because vaping 
was framed as a safer 
alternative to smoking.”FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
Apart from what the FDA did to control the marketing toward 
younger audiences, UC San Diego addressed the THC-related vaping 
issue by sending a campus-wide notice via email on Nov.r 15, 2019 from Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Alysson M. Satterlund and CEO of UC San Diego Health Patty Maysent. In this email, they alerted the student body to refrain from vaping until further findings are determined. 
“The California Department 
of Public Health (CDPH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have issued an advisory urging everyone to refrain from vaping effective immediately, due to a continued increase in vaping-associated pulmonary injury, ” the email stated “Until the 
cause of the condition is known, 
the state is advising against ALL manners of vaping or electronic cigarette use. ” 
Apart from the EVALI-based research done by the CDC, the CDPH 
has “identified 136 cases of acute lung disease in California among people with a history of vaping cannabis or nicotine. All patients required hospitalization, with some needing respiratory support. Three deaths associated with the disease have also been reported. ” These are separate cases from the lung injury EVALI that is being researched by the CDC. Now with multiple illnesses being linked to vaping, the UCSD email gave students who vape some advice.
“Quit vaping altogether, no matter the substance or source, ” the 
email stated. “For those who continue, please avoid purchasing any vaping products on the street and never modify a store-bought vape product. ”
The findings from both the CDPH and the CDC lean toward the 
conclusion that vapes are not completely safe products. With this in mind, it is important to gauge how people who actively vape reacted to the most recent findings. A group of students were collectively vaping outside the bounds of 
UCSD near the bus stop around the Keeling Apartments. They were sharing a single vape amongst the four of them. The mango scent caught my attention and I went to ask them about the findings that recently have come to the forefront.
 “I know that there are a lot of issues with vaping, but I’ve been doing 
this for three years and I trust the brand that I use, ” one of the students, 
who wanted to remain anonymous, said. “I feel like it is people that don’t do the research that end up being hurt. ” The statement carried plenty of confidence and it soon became clear that it was the only words that I would get out of this particular group. 
On a separate occasion, as I 
walked to my car, I saw a student smoking a cigarette in the parking lot. As a self-described “traditional smoker,” her resistance to the 
vaping trend must be grounded in fear of vaping. Her reaction to the findings confirmed my intuition.
“There is no way that inhaling all of those artificial chemicals could 
be good for you, ” the student said with a proud smile “That is why I stick to natural tobacco. If smoking is going to be the end of me, it has to be the real thing. ”
With a lack of a conclusive, definite cause for EVALI and the acute 
lung disease discovered by CDPH, there is still some uncertainty that comes in accepting these recent findings. While the off-market devices have been pegged as more dangerous than those of bigger brands like Juul, the latest results show that no brand is completely safe. The end result is a lack of ability to dissuade people who vape consistently since they have typically been doing it for a while and have not suffered any immediate consequences. The fire alarm has now started to sound and these findings can initiate some hesitancy in starting to vape.
“‘There is no way that inhaling all of 
those artificial chemicals could be good 
for you,’ the student said with a proud 
smile ‘That is why I stick to natural 
tobacco. If smoking is going to be the end 
of me, it has to be the real thing.’”▶ VAPING , from page 6
In late 2019, UC San Diego researchers revealed that they have been studying the negative effects of vaping on student health.
nelson  espinal   nespinal@ucsd.eduA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
Disney + marks the oversaturation of the streaming industry, giving an unclear future.Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson receive an unwarranted amount of praise for their super ficial and unconvincing performances.
On Nov. 12, 2019, The Walt Disney Co. ’s new 
streaming service Disney+ was launched in the 
United States, Canada, and the Netherlands. 
Disney’s new venture into the streaming industry is part of 
the rising trend of large production companies launching 
— or planning to launch — their own streaming services, 
with Time Warner Cable and NBC serving as other examples. This article will not be a critique of Disney+ and its crashing on launch. Rather, this article will serve 
to answer the following questions: How did things get this 
way? Have there been similar events in the past? What does having this amount of streaming services mean for the 
consumer? What can be done in the future?
 First, to understand what allows streaming 
services to operate, it is necessary to look at the current playing field. Currently, there are seven major streaming 
services: Netflix, Hulu, Disney+, Amazon Prime Video, CBS All Access, and Apple TV+. Each specific streaming service has its library of both non-original content and 
original exclusives, like Netflix having “Breaking Bad” and 
“Stranger Things” respectively. Now, why can’t a service like Netflix stream one of the nonoriginal exclusives on Hulu, 
like “Lost?” Well, the answer is fairly simple: Companies 
want to maintain exclusivity over intellectual property. A show or movie being considered an intellectual property means it is protected by law against unlawful plagiarism 
and redistribution. In other words, intellectual property is, 
to some extent, its own monopoly as no other entity can have it. Therefore, when a streaming service has exclusive 
rights to a show, they technically have a monopoly over 
that show. Then, as when any monopoly is present, there is little to no competition. Technically, while the content is 
a monopoly, the small group of streaming services would 
be considered an oligarchy, but this still renders little to no competition. In this scenario, competition can be explained 
as having the most shows to attract the most viewers. When 
this is the case, services like Netflix cannot “compete” with Hulu as there is only one “Lost” that cannot be replicated. When done enough times among multiple services with multiple intellectual properties the “competition” will be 
diluted to every service only having a small selection of 
shows that people want to watch. What does this mean for the consumer?
Within an ecosystem of healthy competition, the 
consumer generally wins. The competitors will always do something to improve their product, whether that be through innovation or trying to maintain quality while 
lowering production costs. However, as stated earlier, 
within oligarchies, there is little to no competition. In the case of these streaming services, there is no need to 
compete and innovate because the consumer will more 
than likely pay for multiple services to watch their favorite shows. Thus, these services are swindling people of their 
money because of their need for entertainment. As a result, 
if more services begin to rise leading to access to fewer popular shows amongst each service, consumers would eventually turn to piracy for their shows and movies. 
While streaming services are rather new, there was once a 
similar issue in the ‘30s and ‘40s with production companies and movie theaters. In brief, production companies, like 
Paramount Pictures Corporation, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
Studios Inc., and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., were buying or making partnerships with theaters to only screen their movies, often through the practice of block booking, 
which is selling multiple films as a unit. These production 
companies were vertically integrated, meaning a company owns two or more stages of production usually performed 
by other companies, as they owned both the means of 
production and distribution. As a result, these production companies were creating an oligopoly with little reason to 
compete against one another. Eventually, this whole issue 
found its way to the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc. 
in 1948. Using the precedent of the Sherman Antitrust 
Act of 1890, the Supreme Court held that the practices of these production companies were anti-competitive and monopolistic. Seeing the scale that this issue came to, it begs the question of what can be done for streaming 
services now?
There are a few possible scenarios that can happen 
in our current situation. One scenario is that consumers allow streaming services to continue down their current 
path. This would probably lead to the oversaturation of the industry. Then, within this scenario, consumers would then turn to piracy as their main source due to the decreasing 
quality of these services. A second scenario is the end of 
exclusivity. With the end of exclusivity, multiple services can have the same shows, similar to movie theaters. Thus, 
they would be competing through the innovation of their 
user interface, cheap prices, etc. This scenario would lead to further competition between all the services. A final 
scenario could be one where there is only one service for 
all the popular shows that could be accompanied by more niche streaming services for things like documentaries and independent works. In this scenario, the consumer gets 
various options for services, as each service will revolve 
around interests as their selling point rather than specific properties. Thus, despite there being the main service, the 
addition of other smaller services will keep the big one in 
check, creating competition similar to scenario two. 
All in all, the issue of streaming services is still quite 
young, considering Netflix only launched its current 
streaming services 12 years ago. However, the pace with 
which streaming has grown cannot be ignored and is quite frankly becoming a major problem. While no one knows 
what the future holds, Disney+ marks a major tipping point 
for this industry.
 
— Hector  arrieta 
Staff WriterWith the 92nd Academy Awards just around the corner, it has become increasingly impossible 
to avoid the widely-discussed and somehow 
critically-acclaimed film, “Marriage Story. ”
The Netflix film starring Adam Driver and Scarlett 
Johansson recently became available for streaming on Dec. 
6, just before the peak of film awards season. “Marriage Story” has since received six Academy Award nominations, including the Award for Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best 
Actress. In addition, it received seven nominations for the 
Critic’s Choice Awards and six more for the Golden Globes. 
Quite frankly, I don’t get it.
While it’s not surprising to me that yet another bland 
story about a white, middle-class family (featuring an almost 
entirely white cast) has received Oscar buzz, I have watched 
this movie again and again, trying to keep an open mind as 
to how it could have possibly received the critical acclaim that it has, and I’m simply drawing a blank. The only decision made by the Academy that I do agree with is the nomination 
of Laura Dern for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Her 
performance, in my opinion, is the film’s sole element worthy of praise.   
For those who have successfully avoided the film thus far, 
maybe due to the fact that not everyone has both a Netflix 
subscription and two hours to waste, no need to worry. I 
believe I can successfully capture the essence of “Marriage 
Story” in a single word: mundane.
The performances of Oscar nominees Adam Driver 
and Scarlett Johansson offer an unconvincing portrayal of a middle-aged, American couple undergoing a strenuous 
divorce. Charlie, an up-and-coming theater director, and his 
wife Nicole, once known for her work as a teen actress, find 
their relationship succumbing to the difficulties of married life, parenting, and show business. Often disagreeing on 
which parenting methods to use when raising their son, the 
two eventually enter a custody battle.
Throughout the film, Driver and Johansson demonstrate 
a limited and inconsistent performance. Johansson’s range 
of emotion alternates exclusively between showing none 
whatsoever, and exaggeratedly loud fits of rage. The two leads rely on screaming at each other to distract viewers from the 
sense of awkwardness that becomes apparent while they’re 
doing literally anything else. One such display is exemplified through a climactic scene in which the estranged couple 
engages in an intense, irreversibly detrimental fight. As 
discussed by V ariety writer Matt Donnelly, this scene has been named by critics as “the defining moment of the film. ” Director Noah Baumbach himself has expressed how the 
majority of the plot encompasses this one specific fight.
In the scene, which has been mocked endlessly on social 
media, the near divorcees are unrelentingly bursting with the rage they had previously internalized for the sake of their son. 
While the intense exchange may be viewed by some critics 
as raw, authentic emotion, members of the Twittersphere 
have utilized the unconvincing display as fuel for a wave of 
new, extraordinarily popular memes. Countless viral tweets 
blatantly vilify Driver and Johansson for their laughable execution of the infamous fight scene, specifically regarding the painfully cringe-worthy moment when Driver indolently punches a wall. The two actors have been widely commended 
for the elements of continuity demonstrated through several 
lengthy monologues, and in this instance, I do have to agree with the critics. Their seemingly never-ending rants are, in 
fact, continuous — continuously uninteresting.
The ongoing issue of emotional inconsistency simply 
left me unconvinced and unable to hold back laughter 
during moments that were clearly intended to be serious. 
In what has been acknowledged by some as one of the most 
sentimental scenes of the movie, Charlie creates a list of reasons as to why he loves his wife, one of them being the 
way she dances. “She’s a great dancer, ” he writes, “infectious. 
She makes me wish I could dance. ” Unsurprisingly, his words are immediately followed by Johansson dancing in such a 
way that it appears as though she is summoning rain. There 
are countless moments throughout the piece that serve as an obvious attempt to invoke emotion, such as the dance scene. However, the poor decision-making by those involved in the 
film has done nothing but contribute to an overpowering 
sense of mediocrity.  
The story of this marriage is one of tedium and monotony, 
and just like with the film itself, I was grateful that it ended.
— Camila  morales 
Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
MARRIAGE  STORYMARRIAGE  STORYPHOTO COURTESY OF TV GUIDEPHOTO COURTESY OF TV GUIDE
Director   Noah Baumbach
Starring  Adam Driver, Scarlett Johansson, Laura Dern, Ray Liotta
Release Date  Dec. 6, 2019
Rating  RCC
Disney+, What Does That Mean for Us?A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
“The Two Popes” places the viewer behind the closed doors of the V atican.Sam Mendes’s war epic “1917” is a technical feat, but falls into conventionality as an Oscar frontrunner.
On April 19, the year of our Lord, 2005, the College 
of Cardinals elected Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger as 
the 265th leader of the Catholic Church after Pope 
John Paul II died. Fast forward to 2012, and this is where 
the majority of  “The Two Popes” takes place. Cardinal Jorge 
Bergoglio wishes to retire and demands that Pope Benedict 
allows him to. However, Benedict bars him from doing so in what he later refers to as a “theological conundrum. ” 
“The Two Popes” is a Netflix exclusive movie directed by 
Fernando Meirelles, known for works like “W aste Land” and “Cidade de Deus, ” and written by Anthony McCarten, known for “The Theory of Everything” and “Bohemian Rhapsody. ” 
The film stars Jonathan Pryce as Cardinal Bergoglio, Juan 
Minujín as young Jorge Bergoglio, and Anthony Hopkins as Pope Benedict. This movie is a character-driven movie that humanizes two of the most revered religious figures in recent 
memory. 
The entire film centers around the various interactions 
between Cardinal Bergoglio and Pope Benedict. At the start of the film, the viewer can sense the disdain that Pope 
Benedict holds against Cardinal Bergoglio. For example, Benedict pauses at the sight of Bergoglio’s picture, and even 
refuses to shake his hand and acknowledge him amongst 
the other cardinals. A lot of the tension between Benedict 
and Bergoglio is accredited to their major ideological 
differences: Benedict is more conservative and traditional, 
while Bergoglio stands at the forefront of progression within the church. The tension between the two comes to a head when Benedict summons Bergoglio to his summer residence 
and the two begin walking and talking in the estate’s garden. 
Their dialogue is akin to a battle between two swordsmen; rather than using swords, it is a battle of wit and intellect with lots of banter and sarcasm alike. Their debate covers theological topics like the nature of God and sacraments, the 
stances of the church, and even the pedophile scandal within 
the church. 
The performances of Pryce and Hopkins are amazing 
in this movie. The viewer can see the fire in their eyes as they defend their respective stances. The beauty between Benedict and Bergoglio lies not only in their opposition but also in their attempts to be more like brothers under Christ. 
Seeing these two characters converse about trivial things like 
soccer, coffee, and pizza, and seeing them enjoy themselves as Benedict plays the piano, humanizes these religious figures 
in a way I have never seen before. While the two might not 
see eye-to-eye in terms of belief, they can tolerate each other as the film progresses. So much even, that when Bergoglio confesses his past sins of allowing his ego to push away 
people he was trying to protect during a bloody dictatorship 
in Argentina, causing people to suffer, Benedict reminds him he is only human. All in all, the film does a good job 
of keeping the characters fairly consistent, justifying their 
actions through their past experiences and current outlook on life.  
Aside from character development, the film also has 
good cinematography. There were shots in the movie that 
resembled a religious renaissance painting. For example, 
towards the beginning, a still shot from the side of the 
procession of cardinals into the Sistine Chapel had this appearance. Also, in the garden scene between Benedict and Bergoglio, the decision to have shots of Benedict be obscured 
by branches, potentially hinting at his muddled conscience, 
was a good decision.
While there are a lot of things this movie does well, there are also a few flaws. One notable flaw is how the script makes certain moments explicitly obvious. For example, when young 
Bergoglio entered his local church after hearing a saxophone 
and begins a confession, the priest basically spells out, “Hey, this is the sign that God is giving you to become a priest. ” 
Also, I found the choice of ABBA ’s “Dancing Queen” over the 
first papal conclave scene to be off-putting. Other than this, there were no other weird choices in music. In addition, the film focuses more on the past of Cardinal Bergoglio, and I 
would have liked to see Benedict’s past rather than just being 
told it. However, the film’s biggest sin is its delivery of the revelation of Benedict’s resignation. Benedict’s resignation 
was an event that completely shocked the Catholic church to 
the core. Here it comes off as a buddy comedy, meant to be funny. After Benedict tells Bergoglio about his plan to resign, Bergoglio is understandably confused about the situation. 
However, Benedict appears to be taking the situation very 
nonchalantly as he stands up and walks away pretending like he did not just tell someone news that would shake the 
church.
Overall, “The Two Popes” is a well put together film that 
truly makes these religious figures feel like true human beings through the use of internal church affairs. While this film 
does not have many flaws, the ones it does have keep it from 
being a film of a lifetime… and because the only way to watch 
it is on Netflix. 
 
— Hector  arrieta 
Staff WriterAcademy Awards nominations always have their share 
of snubs, but this year’s list feels particularly lacking 
in filmgoer favorites. “The Farewell, ” “Rocketman, ” 
“Us, ” “The Lighthouse, ” and “Uncut Gems” are just a handful 
of accolade-worthy titles that twist conventions and upturn 
expectations, yet somehow fail to agree with the academy’s 
selective tastes. However, the war epic “1917” was an obvious shoo-in since the buzz surrounding its trailer release. With Director Sam Mendes, Cinematographer Roger Deakins, 
and A-list British actors in its armory, little surprise arose 
when “1917” snagged 10 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture.
With “1917, ” Mendes adds to an already-impressive 
filmography, which includes “Skyfall, ” “ American Beauty, ” and “Revolutionary Road. ” Centered around two British 
soldiers tasked with delivering a message that will stop a 
deadly battle, “1917” brings the frontlines of World W ar I onto the big screen. In several heart-pounding, armrest-clenching scenes, we see Lance Corporals Schofield (George 
MacKay) and Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) crawl through 
no man’s land, dodge enemy fire, and wrestle between their fears and their duty to their country.
By far the most celebrated aspect of this film is its one-
shot experience. Shot by cinematography luminary Deakins, the camera tracks the characters’ journey through rolling 
green fields and decimated, body-strewn trenches without 
the impression of any cuts. We, as audience members, are limited to what the characters see and hear, not knowing what 
dangers lay around the corner. The one-shot method thus creates a deeply engaging viewing experience that can also be, 
ironically, distracting when you pick up on the hidden cuts.
Despite how stylistically impressive the film is, one can’t 
help but also draw visual parallels and comparisons to other movies and forms of media. Alejandro González 
Iñárritu’s 2014 “Birdman” already did the sleek one-shot 
movie with more flair and finesse. Christopher Nolan’s 2017 “Dunkirk” already did the technologically impressive, all-senses immersive war movie with a greater sense of urgency 
and scale. I even found myself reminded of “Call of Duty” 
and other first-person shooter games because of the way we follow behind gun-touting characters through unfamiliar 
places, achieving little quests that guide them toward their 
final mission.
Thomas Newman’s Oscar-nominated original score leaves 
one cold, spare for certain scenes. Music plays as uninspired ambiance with little sense of an overall theme in most scenes. However, the score comes to life in a few climactic moments. These moments, most notably one that takes place during 
nighttime, are accompanied by a beautifully haunting, almost 
dystopian opera. This particular scene pairs Newman’s song, “The Night Window, ” with nightmarish shots that look like 
real-life paintings. It’s a phenomenal union of sounds and 
visuals that strike awe and that, I argue, makes this whole movie worth watching. 
Despite the amount of talent working on and off-screen, 
and some critics hailing it as one of the best war movies of all time, “1917” is arguably nothing new. The film’s simplistic 
plot and one-sided characters are unremarkable and almost underwhelming. There are no overarching messages or 
themes to pull away besides a vague anti-war sentiment. Brief 
appearances by great British actors — Colin Firth, Benedict 
Cumberbatch, Andrew Scott, Mark Strong, and Richard Madden — make for far more interesting characters than the 
two stoic leads.
Nonetheless, “1917” remains one of the strongest 
contenders of this year’s Oscars. Being a safely conventional, 
technically impressive war film nearly guarantees it to be 
a front-runner by the academy. It’ll battle Bong Joon-ho’s 
“Parasite” for Best Picture and Best Directing, and it’ll likely win Best Cinematography, Best Production Design, and other 
technical categories. It’s both an audience and a critic favorite 
that doesn’t stir much controversy for its nominations, unlike “Joker” and its 11 nominations. But “1917’s” nominations 
also mean less award recognition for films with more diverse 
creators and boundary-pushing stories.
While “1917” is a good film in many regards, it is yet 
another film that has little new to say and yet is still widely 
recognized and praised — a privilege that not all movies and 
movie creators are granted.
 
 
— natalie  tran 
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEWFILM   REVIEW
The  Two  PopesThe  Two  Popes19171917
PHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIXPHOTO COURTESY OF NETFLIXPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW  STATESMANPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW  STATESMAN
Director   Fernando Meirelles
Starring  Jonathan Pryce, Anthony Hopkins, and Juan Minujín
Release Date  Nov. 27, 2019
Rating  PG-13
Director   Sam Mendes
Starring  George MacKay, Dean-Charles Chapman
Release Date  Dec. 4, 2019
Rating  R
CA-CB+10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  J A N U A R Y  2 1 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
A CONCERT BEYOND
ASCE PRESENTS:
1.24.202 0  |  RIMA C ARE NA
Registration  opens  January • BeyondTheHorizon.UCSD.EDU • #BeyondTheHorizon
ASCE PRESENTS:
HEADLINED BY:
1.24.202 0  |  RIMA C ARE NA
Register NOW! • BeyondTheHorizon.UCSD.EDU • #BeyondTheHorizonA Decade of Fashion
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
As the new decade begins, it 
would be wrong not to reflect 
on some of our best, and worst, style choices of the past 10 years! Let’s look back together and decide what we can carry with us through the ‘20s and what we need to leave in the 2010’s! 
2010
Hello skinny jeans! If you 
wore colored skinny jeans that were so tight you weren’t sure you could bend down without ripping a seam, then you were on trend, baby! Put on some Ke$ha while getting ready for school and don’t forget to top off the outfit with those new clip-on 
feathers in your hair!
2011
We need some sunglasses to 
look back at this year because 
of all the neon! Don’t forget to put on those little neon, spiky rubber ball earrings you just bought from Claire’s for the middle school dance! They’ll go great with that lace dress you got on sale from Forever 21. 
2012
We love a collared, button 
down, sleeveless top! Bonus points for wearing it with leggings and boho fringe boots. If you want to be fancy, throw 
on a high-low dress or skirt 
to impress the boy at school wearing his brand new Nike elite crew socks, school P .E. shorts, and One Direction styled hair. You  c an  p au s e  h e re  t o  s w o on .
2013
The year of comfort! Rock 
those halls with a PINK sweatshirt, some black leggings, and Uggs (off brand from Ross is still okay). Boys, make sure 
you’re buttoning that shirt all the 
way up to the neck!
2014
The influence of Ariana 
Grande was very prevalent this year. Ladies, ponytails up and high-waisted, pleated mini-skirts on! Pair the skirt with an oversized sweater or tight crop top. For the boys, the 
preppier the better! Put on those 
Chubbies-styled shorts, and Vineyard Vines t-shirts. 
2015
Hello, punk revival! Ladies 
and gentlemen, get yourselves to Goodwill and thrift those oversized flannels now! Doc Marten style boots or Converse in addition to a t-shirt for a band you’ve never actually listened to, but the vintage style looked cool to you in the store, will give you that extra edge in the hallways. 
2016
Anything that looks like it 
came from Brandy Melville is welcomed. Ripped skinny jeans, tight crop-top, and that light-brown/beige oversized cardigan that everyone seems to own is right on trend, ladies! Gentlemen, baggy yet skinny 
jeans with an oversized t-shirt 
and fresh Timberlands are the way to go. 
2017
Another Brandy Melville 
trend to follow: flowy shorts! Comfortable and stylish, which is possibly the best combination you could ask for! T-shirt dresses and Converse are always a safe option, too! For both ladies and gentlemen, make sure you grab that denim jacket on your way 
out of the house! Bonus points 
for heart-shaped sunglasses. 
2018
A-line skirts everywhere! 
Plaid, corduroy, and more! Not feeling a skirt today? Break out your flowy wide leg, cropped pants and you’re on your way! For the guys out there, throw on your patterned, button up shirt and make sure you roll the short sleeves a bit. Now get on your way, you Harry Styles look-alike! 
2019
Calling all VSCO girls and 
e-boys! Strut your stuff with a wedged pair of espadrilles and lots of yellow! Don’t forget your scrunchies and hydroflask! Boys, time for pierced ears, an Aaron Carter haircut, and cuffed pants with a chain hanging from the belt. 
PICTURE COURTESY OF HYPEBAEPICTURE COURTESY OF HYPEBAELIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
VOTE
ASSOCIATED STUDENTS
UC SAN DIEGOASSOCIATED STUDENTS
UC SAN DIEGOW
OMEN’S COMMISSIONPanel discussion about 
women's voting rights 
And voting behavior
of  female-identity 
folks around the world. 
Welcome to all genders 
and sexual orientation. 
For additional information, 
contact Hannah Truong at 
tht036@ucsd.edu
619-718-1783WOMEN' S VOTING RIGHTS 
FEBRUARY 4IAROUND THE WORLD
VOTE
VOTEGREEN TABLE ROOM
GREEN TABLE ROOM, LEVEL 2THE UNTOLD HERSTORY: 
Eating Your Way To a Smaller Carbon Footprint
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
A few months ago, I was one 
of those people who believed 
that going vegan to help climate change was kind of bogus. After all, how could the impact of one person cutting out animal products make a difference in the grand scheme of things? 
All that changed this past 
winter break, when I somehow fell down the YouTube rabbit-hole of vegan content. I found that the world’s food system is responsible for around one-quarter of greenhouse gases, with the meat and dairy industries having the largest impact and plant-based foods having the lowest impact. Additionally, 
researchers at the University of 
Oxford found that not eating meat and dairy products can reduce an individual’s carbon 
footprint by 73 percent. 
I was shocked; simply 
changing my diet could have a 
bigger impact on my personal carbon emissions than reducing the number of flights I take or driving an electric car. Before the new year came around, I decided to make it one of my 2020 resolutions to eat less meat and dairy. 
Here are some tips I’ve 
gathered to try to make my goal a reality. 
Stick to the 80-20 Rule 
In a given week, try to eat 
80 percent plant-based and 20 percent meat and dairy. This doesn’t have to be a hard and fast rule, but it can be helpful with planning out your meals and helping you decide what to buy at the grocery store. 
Find Easy Meatless Recipes 
When you get home after a 
long day, the last thing you want 
to think about is how to veganize 
your dinner. Familiarize yourself with a few meatless meals that are easy to make and taste good, like vegetable pasta.
Opt For Vegan Baked Goods
Baked goods are often the 
easiest to veganize — and they still taste amazing! Buy vegan pastries, and, when baking, swap 
out eggs for flax eggs, mashed 
banana for butter, or non-dairy milk for cow’s milk. You can also experiment with vegan recipes 
to find ones you like; this one 
from Tasty simmers toasted pecans in coconut oil to create a “browned” butter, which I think is pretty genius. 
Nuts and Beans Are Your 
Friends
Nuts are a great source of 
protein! Other than eating them out of the bag as a snack, you can add them to salads for more texture, use peanut butter in sauces, or add them as an ingredient in stews. Beans are 
also an amazing staple and can 
be flavored to go with essentially everything — replace chicken with chickpeas in an Indian Butter sauce or black beans in tacos. 
Tr y Vegetarian Dishes
Go to vegan or vegetarian 
restaurants in your neighborhood, and if you like the meals enough, try to replicate them at home! This is especially helpful when you’ve eaten roasted vegetables for four days in a row and you need to find new, creative ways to cook squash. Grains in University Heights has a vegan bahn mi 
made with jackfruit instead of pork, and it’s pretty incredible.
 
Take Your Time 
I feel like one of the main 
reasons people don’t want to go 
vegan is that they’re so used to cooking and eating meat and dairy. Switching diets can be scary, but you don’t have to do it all at once. Start out easy, like with meatless Mondays or by committing yourself to having a vegan breakfast. Try a few vegan or vegetarian dinner recipes, and 
if you like them, consider adding them to your routine. Yes, your 
meals may taste different, but a diet without meat isn’t lackluster — it just means you haven’t found the way to cook vegan that works for you.
I’m not pledging to go full 
vegan. I’m not even pledging to go vegetarian. I’m just committing myself to do what I can and make more conscious decisions about what I eat, because even eating less of the foods that have a big climate footprint can make 
a big difference.
PICTURE BY BROOKE LARKINPICTURE BY BROOKE LARKIN12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  J A N U A R Y  2 1 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
New Year, Better You
by Tori Anderson Lifestyle Contributing Writer
The holidays have passed and the 
quarter has just begun, so it’s grind time. 
This is a guide on how to jump start your quarter and new year. Here are some tips and motivation to start and keep the year going how you want it. 
It is easy to let the stress of the new 
quarter get to you, but instead of letting it control you, use this opportunity to create and stabilize new habits. Every year, we can collectively say that we set out goals and resolutions to conquer but do not change our habits to accomplish them. This all comes down to basic everyday habits that we let slide which create a domino effect, and that  is why half of our 
goals do not get accomplished. So, time to 
take the bull by the horns, friends.
Tip 1:Write Down Your Day and Week 
Goals
“ A dream written down with a date 
becomes a goal. A goal broken down into steps becomes a plan. A plan backed by action becomes reality. ” - Anonymous.
One of the most effective ways to 
accomplish what you want is to write them down. There is a reason why we write down notes because it actually makes us retain and remember the information presented. I have my weekly goals in my planner and I have my year goals also in my planner and on a whiteboard in my room. I have my goals in multiple places to remind myself what I’m working towards and to give me that continuous motivation. I personally think it is so important to write them down because seeing what you want for yourself starts to bring life to what was just a thought. 
Tip 2: Change Your Mentality 
Time to flip that switch and get out 
of the holiday relax mode as fast as possible. It’s week three  or four  and more assignments are starting to be due. 
There will be a time to relax when you 
get your work done. Be disciplined with yourself. Acquire the four most important mindsets during this time: 
1. Positive mindset: A positive mindset 
goes such a long way! If you start to change negative thoughts to positive affirmations, you will see shift in your moods and outlooks on yourself and goals. 
2. Learning mindset: a mindset that 
will continuously keep you growing. Every day, you take something away from it, whether it’s education, hobbies, challenges, or favors. In each of these, there is potential to learn and grow from it and it is up to you to recognize those opportunities. 
3. Focused mindset: This helps with 
procrastination and loss of motivation. Being focused and having this type of mindset helps with the next; 
4. Goal-setting mindset: to bring your 
dreams and thoughts to reality. Having discipline bridges the gap between goals and achievements. Set your goals from short term to long term. The more you achieve, the more the desire to reach your goals increases. Each of these mindsets gives you attributes that will only benefit your life. If you keep these four mindsets 
all quarter long — and hopefully all year 
long — you will keep your sanity and achieve the goals you wrote down. 
Tip 3: Do Not Be Afraid of Change
“Do the things you fear and the fear 
loses its control over you. ” - Anonymous
 One of the main reasons why we do 
not accomplish our goals is because we are afraid of change and are rather content remaining stagnant. This falls in the Status Quo Bias: a preference for an individual’s situation or environment to remain the same. Y es, change can be scary, but there’s so much beauty and excitement behind it. Whether you fail or not, it’s an experience you tried, and once you have tried, you realize it’s not that scary. Change is good. Everything that I once was afraid of has only made me grow as a person and I could not be more thankful to myself for taking those risks. Change does not have to be a huge one but rather a small one. It is about not staying stagnant waters and exposing yourself to something new and  better. 
Lastly, some motivation for y’all: no 
matter how hard or stressful this quarter is or will be, do not give up on yourselves or your dreams. Prioritize you and your 
health before anything else. I believe that 
you can accomplish anything you put your heart into. Make 2020 the year you manifest all your desires and go full force in achieving them. Put your head down and grind all 2020 and see all your goals become reality. I believe in you. 
PICTURE COURTESY OF PROBLOGGERPICTURE COURTESY OF PROBLOGGERCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
COURAGE TO UNITE FOR JUSTICE
UNDER THE INFLUENCER WITH JOSH PECK  SATURDAY, JANUARY 25
TRITON FEST • PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WEST
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org9:30am
COFFEE HOUR AT ISPO - STUDENT 
CENTER B, GROUND FLOOR, 
EUCALYPTUS GROVE ACROSS FROM 
ISPO'S MAIN ENTRANCE
Join us for a casual, fun and relaxing atmosphere 
to meet new friends and connect with staff from your College or the Graduate Division, as well as the International Peer Coaching Program, and various Student Affairs Offices and Student Organizations at UC San Diego. This event is part of Changemaker Week. To learn more about additional events taking place within Changemaker Week, please visit changemaker.ucsd.edu.
11am
TRANSLATING THE VALUE OF YOUR 
UCSD EXPERIENCE - BEAR ROOM, 2 ND LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
Connect with fellow UCSD student changemakers 
and learn how to capture and share your experiences and skills developed beyond the classroom. This workshop will provide an opportunity to translate the value of your contributions and showcase your work using the Engaged Learning Tools. Presented by Shawna Hook-Held and Melissa Campbell, Engaged Learning Tools Specialists for Teaching+Learning Commons-Experiential Learning Hub Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
12pm
STUDENT LUNCHEON WITH VCSA - 
FREE LUNCH! - RED SHOE ROOM
You are invited to quarterly luncheon with VCSA 
Dr. Alysson Satterlund on 1/21! Join us in this informal setting to learn more about topics identified as topics identifies as important issues to our students. This upcoming luncheon on 1/21 will focus on Student Centeredness. Please see the attached flyer for more information. Space is limited! To reserve your spot, please RSVP to Kirby Knipp (kknipp@ucsd.edu).
,8am
SUSTAINABILITY SCAVENGER HUNT 
- UC SAN DIEGO COMMUNITY GARDENS
Participate in a social media scavenger hunt that 
will take participants across campus to explore the numerous community gardens on campus and learn what makes them unique! Collect pictures from the list posted on the UC San Diego Sustainability event page (list will be posted on 1/21/2020 at 8:00 AM) and post them to Facebook before Friday, January 24 at 4:00 PM using the hashtags #tritonchangemakers and #findagarden as well as tagging UC San Diego Sustainability (@sustainucsd) to be entered in a drawing to win sustainability swag. 
3pm
CAPS MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY 
LIVING - STUDENT HEALTH 
SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
If you have been curious about mindfulness, this 
workshop is a perfect way to explore it. Mindfulness can help you reduce stress, anxiety, and depressive mood. You will engage in various Mindfulness exercises, so you incorporate them into your life. All students are welcome to attend this workshop, no matter your level of experience with mindfulness.
3pm
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER 
INVOLVEMENT FAIR - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER 
COMUNIDAD ROOM, PRICE CENTER 
EAST
Hear firsthand from student leaders how you can 
make change on campus and in your community! Join us at the Cross-Cultural Center Involvement Fair where you can meet student org leaders, and get to know some campus resources! Participants will also get to decorate and fill their own tote bag with school supplies and snacks, and can enter for the chance to win one of four $15 Triton Cash Cards. This event is part of Changemaker Week. To learn more about additional events taking place within Changemaker Week, please visit changemaker.ucsd.edu.TUE1.21
THU1.23MON1.20
5pm
DINING WITH PROFESSIONALS 
2020 - UCSD MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
Focus on success! SASE at UC San Diego is 
hosting their annual Dining with Professionals (DWP) event on January 25th, 2020! Dining with Professionals is an amazing opportunity where UCSD students can come dine with professionals from many different fields in industry, research, and academia in the San Diego area. Here, students can learn more about their career passions and find out more beyond the surface of typical job descriptions and delve into the mind of an actual professional with a personal backstory.
8pm
IMPROV APOCALYPSE - LEDDEN 
AUDITORIUM
Come see our free comedy show! UCSD's funniest 
comedians will go head to head against comedy teams from UCLA, SDSU, UCI, and more! Our free two night show is Friday and Saturday night at 8pm in Ledden Auditorium. Cant wait to see you all there!
8pm
TRITON FEST PRESENTS: UNDER 
THE INFLUENCER WITH JOSH PECK 
- PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WEST
We'll learn how Josh's career has grown since his 
Nickelodeon days, and explore his exciting rise as an influencer. Event is exclusively open to current UC San Diego undergraduate and graduate students with valid school ID.SAT1.25WED1.22
12pm
WINTER ORG WILDERNESS FAIR 
2020 - LIBRARY WALK
Interested in learning more about the many 
organizations on campus, and getting more involved? Want to take a break from midterms 
and come play games with your friends? ... Or 
even get free food? If you answered YES to any of 
these questions come join The One Stop Desk and AS Office of Student Organizations on Library 
Walk, Jan 22 for our annual Winter Org. Fair to 
learn more!
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS @ THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the 
opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management! You'll learn strategies such as progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress as well as learn about some cool technology. We'll have free giveaways each week AND you can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! See you on Wednesdays! 
5pm
TV DINNER: THE FAST AND THE 
FURIOUS - THE LOFT
Get a whiff of the Fast and the Furious racers 
with FREE car fresheners and food from the Loft! We will be showing the first movie of the Fast and the Furious series! Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu4pm
TRITONS ART INSTALLATION - 
REVELLE PLAZA, MARSHALL UPPERS, SIXTH RES LIFE, WARREN S. ACTIVITIES CENTER, CAFE VENTANAS, PINES
TRITONS Art Installation is a yearlong project 
intended to raise awareness among the UC San 
Diego community about mental wellbeing. 
Students are encouraged to write notes of self-affirmation, encouragement, or anything positive and tie them to any BLUE letter that is scattered around campus that spells the word TRITONS. We will be highlighting all of the notes in 
Revelle Plaza starting January 20th! Stop by any 
college to write your affirmation! Contact: 
b1lui@ucsd.edu
6pm
AMERICAN ARTIST GUEST LECTURE - 
VAF 306 PERFORMANCE SPACE,
AMERICAN ARTIST is an interdisciplinary artist 
whose work considers the visibility and labor of 
blackness in the context of networked virtual life. 
Their practice makes use of video, installation, new media, and writing to reveal historical dynamics embedded within contemporary culture and technology. 
FRI1.24
12pm
BIAS AND THE BRAIN 101 - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
Bias and the Brain 101 is an interactive 
workshop that presents an overview of implicit and explicit bias, the socio-cultural factors that influence our perceptions, what happens in the brain, and social implications. Participants will have discussion opportunities to learn from one another and what we can do to effect change around our biases. 
5pm
BLACK WOMEN'S COLLECTIVE - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for conversations about experience as 
black women and connect with other women on campus. Light refreshments will be provided. 
6pm
SIXTH LUNAR NEW YEAR 
CELEBRATION - SIXTH COLLEGE DOGGHOUSE
Join Outreach and Co-board as we celebrate 
the Lunar New Year! Come enjoy free food and learn to make dumplings, do calligraphy, decorate paper fans, and lots more! Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
JAN 20 - JAN 26
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
1-word MOVIES
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Choir member
5. Between9. Animated deer
14. Surprise attack
15. Waiter’s handout
16. Audibly17. Frosted18. Wimbledon projectile (2 wds.)
20. Meal ender
22. Give a right to
23. Young woman25. Writing implement26. In danger (2 wds.)
30. ____ Thurman of “Paycheck”
32. Stare
36. Mediterranean island37. Ship’s pole38. Fled
39. Races the engine
40. Earn
41. Broadcast42. Water (Fr.)43. Warning sign44. Part45. Stride47. Lip48. Caught49. Halloween mo.51. Prepare copy53. Smoker’s need57. Intense joy62. Unsuitable for surgery64. Diva’s specialty65. ____ O’Donnell of TV66. Darn it!67. Jail room68. Use a broom69. Mild oath70. SnatchDOWN
1. Waterless2. Delicate fabric3. Makes a knot
4. Chances
5. US rail service
6. Convenes7. Wayside hotel8. Hill of sand
9. Moisten while cooking
10. Lacking pigment
11. Castle ditch12. Matador’s foe13. Doing nothing
19. To some extent (2 wds.)
21. If not
24. Ultimate26. Land measures27. Trick or ____!
28. Musical show
29. The I in TGIF
31. Foremost33. Welcome34. Cyclist ____ Armstrong35. Concluded37. Large truck40. Building cement41. Pose44. Cherished animals46. Savory pastry (2 wds.)48. Friendliest50. Crawl52. Letter after gamma53. Broadcasts54. Winter flakes55. Sprinkler attachment56. House’s lot58. Diplomacy59. ____ code60. Fine fabric61. Connecticut university63. SaloonFULL-TIME JOBS 
Sales Representative (Entry Level) at 
Initium Consulting - Our local team is now hiring ambitious and goal-driven 
Entry Level Sales Representative order 
to take on our market’s rapid expan-sion. The responsibilities of the position 
include working on client campaigns 
and serving as the brand expert for 
sales, customer service, and public rela -
tions….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Entry Level Mechanical Engineer  - Our 
client, a US Fortune 250 organization 
and global Medical technology cor -
poration serving Healthcare industry & technologies, is actively seeking an 
accomplished Mechanical Engineering 
Technician….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Entrepreneurial Outside Sales 
Representative at Symmetry Financial Group  - Symmetry Financial Group 
is seeking motivated, career-minded 
individuals to join our team, helping 
American families protect their homes. 
We are currently looking for repre -
sentatives ranging from entry level to 
experienced professionals seeking a dif -
ferent, more rewarding career and ….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
BIKES 
Gary Fisher 1999 Joshua F2 Mountain 
Bike - 1999 Gary Fisher Joshua F2 
Mountain Bike for sale. Aluminum frame 
insanely light approx 28.0 pounds, Front 
and Rear suspension, 26” Tires. With 
amazing spider-webbed blue and black 
custom paint job. Overall this bike is in 
well over superb condition. This bike 
would cost you….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Shimano Ultegra 6500 Group & Rolf 
Vector 700c - converting road bike to 
fixie. selling take off parts. MAKE FAIR OFFER... not looking to give parts away..
could always just toss them in garage 
storage bin...so no low ball ridiculous 
offers Shimano Ultegra….  ucsdguard-
ian.org/classifieds for more informationDiamond Back “ Grind” With Upgrades Pro Frame  - Almost NEW BMX FREE STYLE Bike Diamond Back “GRIND” 18” 
center bar PRO FRAME mdl # 04013, 
4X Aluminum Foot Pegs, 360 degree Full Handle bar rotation, Front and Rear 
Hand Brakes, Rear gear neutral spin, 
Oversize Axles, Sealed Self Lubricating 
Bearings, Pro Heavy Duty Crank….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
CARS
New 2020 Volvo s60 T5 FWD - Sunroof, 
Panoramic Roof, Satellite Radio, iPod/MP3 Input, BLOND, LEATHERETTE SEATING SURFACES W..., DENIM BLUE 
METALLIC, PREMIUM PACKAGE, Back-
Up Camera, Turbo, Alloy rims, four 
year/50,000 mi Manufacture Warranty plus three years Free Factory Scheduled Maintenance….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -sifieds for more information
New 2020 Volvo XC90 T5 AWD 7 
Passenger - Heated Seats, 3rd Row Seat, 
Sunroof, iPod/MP3 Input, Panoramic Roof, Power Liftgate, DENIM BLUE METALLIC, harman/kardon UPGRADED MUSIC SYSTEM, SENSUS NAVIGATION-PRO, CHARCOAL, LEATHERETTE SEATING SURFACE..., Turbo Charged, Back-Up Camera, Alloy rims, 4 yr/50,000mi Manufacture….  ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
2010 Ford Transit Connect Cargo Van 
XLT - Clean CARFAX. XLT FWD four Gear Automatic with Overdrive Duratec 2.0L I4 DUAL OVERHEAD CAM Recent Arrival! Awards: * NACTOY 2010 North American Truck of the Year * 2010 KBB.com Brand Image Awards Reviews….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
6
14
82
31
45
42
6
87
8
9
53
65
86
7
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
My time had come; my 
number had been called. Baseball 
was the subject of national discussion on Thursday, Jan. 16, 
as part of a discursive explosion surrounding the Houston Astros’ cheating scandal, and as the biggest baseball fan in the lives of many of my friends, I became a resource more valuable than gold. Many of the group chats I’m a part of devolved into chaotic Q & A sessions, with myself not-so-firmly grounded as the center of 
attention.
While screenshots of social 
media tirades and accusations swirled through my head and darted across my phone screen, 
I was peppered with all sorts of 
questions. What exactly is going on with the Astros? Why are the buzzers a big deal? Does it really 
matter if you know what pitch is 
coming? Why aren’t more teams doing this? How come the Astros only got fined $5 million?
If my only goal was to try 
and add to the maelstrom of unprofessional opinions surrounding the scandal, I may have sought to answer all of these questions in this very article. In fact, that was my first reaction 
to fielding all of these questions, 
maybe I should just write an article about it.
And I guess I’m still doing 
that. But instead of going through the grit and grime of the scandal, I decided to take a step back and attack the issue from the perspective of a student of sports rather than as an expert or a super-fan.
Realistically, even if I know 
the literal answers to many of the questions being asked of me, they carry much less weight than questions I was asking myself about the same situation.
Is the sports world, and 
specifically the baseball world, 
my preferred place of refuge since I can remember, really just like the world I brave every day? Is there really just as much profit-mindedness, purposeful 
inequality, and exploitation in baseball as there is in any industry?
The intuitive answer is yes, and 
for someone less connected to the game than me, I probably could have come to that answer without 
needing to see the breadth of the 
‘Trashtros’ scandal play out on social media first. But because I 
have buried myself underneath 
so many di fferent layers of sports 
mud, I really am a bit desensitized 
when it comes to the inherent problem areas found within it. 
At least I got to the necessary 
conclusion, right?
Through all of the fog, one idea 
shone through. All of the cheating and the accusations and the cruel social media assaults served to remind me of something I read from David Halberstam, one of the greatest American writers of the 20th century, which I’ll just paraphrase here: Sports may mirror society, but sports don’t heal society, they just distract from the pains, struggles, and anxieties of everyday life.
Instead of focusing on 
impeachment and impending war with Iran, millions of people all reacted and watched others react to the downfall of one of the most successful baseball teams in recent memory, one that notably has done a great job of isolating itself through poor media relations and insensitive stands on women’s rights and domestic violence. No one will remember the exact date, but many baseball fans will likely remember the outpouring of spiteful remarks and absurd claims that stemmed from the Astros’ cheating scandal. That sort of cultural signi ficance 
is important, and the common distraction served to connect many people, baseball fans and otherwise, to ironic and comedic limbs of the scandal (like the many trash can jokes that popped up online) is probably more positive than negative.
What is negative is deeper 
than the immoral connection of cheating in sports and the short-cut laden business world we live in today though. This relatively 
insigni ficant scandal is alluring 
because it is entertaining in a way that it is uncommon and unexpected, and because of 
that, many respected athletes 
and sportswriters have opinions known.
What’s really disappointing 
and frustrating about this scandal is how weightier moments in recent baseball history, like the potential downsizing of the professional baseball minor leagues, the painkiller epidemic, the penalties for domestic violence, or the circumstances of poor, underrepresented Latin American players and their journeys stateside, all received 
far less air time and thought 
from most people. The things 
most deserving of our time and attention have received the least attention in this instance.
And unfortunately, that tracks 
with much of sports media’s current moment. Highlight videos flaunt expensive shoes and 
jerseys instead of the camaraderie of the team or the struggles of the players whose last option is on the court.
Of course, bastions of these 
sorts of stories still exist, and sometimes they come from the same outlets that bring us the flashy dunks and that fetishize 
$500 custom-made kicks. But the stories that generate the most buzz, and thus the most clicks, are the ones that provide some sort of easily-digestible and easily repostable material, which means drama, scandals, personal attacks, and conspiracy theories, which reminds me a lot of the rest 
of the entertainment and news 
industries.
Certainly, the world of sports 
has moments of perfection, with 
players and managers visiting 
hospitals and donating massive sums of time and money to charities and their hometowns. 
But as a sports fan, I think 
especially today, during a time of a sports entertainment ‘glut’ as Halberstam has said, it is important to be aware of all angles. Sports is no longer just a game, an innocent pastime of semi-professionals having a good time for a few thousand people. It is a mega-industry, with trillions of dollars on the line, and as such, inherent morality should not be assumed.
Triton 
Timeout
Trying to be a 
responsible sports 
fanWith Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
@ Lindenwood (MO)
@ San Francisco State@ San Francisco State@ San Diego ChristianUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
W Basketball
M Basketball
Baseball5PM
5:30PM7:30PM
6PM1/231/231/231/21
Something’s Bruin at UCSD, Tritons 
Stun No. 3 UCLA in Straight Sets
The score was 6–54. That was 
UC San Diego’s all-time record 
against the UCLA Bruins in men’s volleyball before Friday, with the last UCSD Tritons win coming all the way back in 2012. That’s the backdrop under 
which the current iteration of the Bruins came to La Jolla, with an undefeated record and ranked No. 3 in the nation. Having lost their last 14 against UCLA, the Tritons’ chances at victory seemed slim at best, and a sweep would have been unthinkable.
But there’s a reason they play 
the games.
UCSD dominated the match 
from wire to wire, taking the match 25–22, 25–17, 25–21 in front of a rollicking Spirit Night crowd of 917 at RIMAC Arena. Junior outside hitters Kyle McCauley and Wyatt Harrison led the team with 13 and 11 kills, respectively, as coach Kevin Ring’s squad took down their highest-ranked opponent since, in a poetic twist, a March 2012 win against a then-No. 3 UCLA.
UCSD came out strong in the 
first set, and a fter a back-and-
forth opening sequence, two straight Bruin errors followed by a Harrison kill gave the Tritons an 11–7 lead going into a timeout. But a fter the pause, 
a deflating series of errors from 
the Tritons evened the match at 13. The Tritons would hold a 
tenuous lead for the remainder of the set, but that lead was all they needed. With the score 23–21 following a costly UCSD net violation, junior opposite hitter Collin Shannon dove forward to keep the ball in play o ff the 
ground, and on the next return, Shannon joined sophomore middle blocker Logan Clark on a block that landed for a Triton set point. Two serves later, a McCauley spike bounced out o ff 
a blocker to hand the Tritons the first set by 3.
The Tritons continued their 
onslaught in the second set, as a Harrison kill kicked o ff a 7–0 
run to go up 7–1 early. (“Septuple the score! Septuple the score!” taunted the UCSD pep band. “That’s times seven!”) A fter the 
score reached 10–2 on a four-hit call on UCLA, the Bruins were forced to call a timeout, and the Triton crowd began to smell blood. (“Quintuple the score!” cheered the pep band. “ That’s 
times five!”) A 4–0 Triton run on 
McCauley’s serve increased the lead to 16–5, and despite a late 5–1 run, McCauley finished o ff 
the set with a kill to take the 2–0 
lead. 
On their last leg, the Bruins 
came out firing in the third set, 
taking their largest lead of the 
night a fter a kill from senior 
outside hitter Austin Matautia made it 7–4. But UCSD fought back, and with the score tied at 8, senior setter Connor Walbrecht made an electrifying block on the right side to absolutely stu ff 
Bruin freshman outside hitter Alex Knight at the net, firing up 
the crowd and giving the Tritons the lead. Five serves later, both McCauley and Walbrecht made diving saves to keep a ball in play, and Harrison ended the rally with a massive kill to take the 12–10 lead. Later, Shannon delivered an absolute beauty of an ace into the back le ft corner to 
give the Tritons the 19–13 lead. The match ended as Walbrecht 
made his game-high 28th assist to sophomore middle blocker Shane Benetz, who slammed it home for the sweep of the 
Bruins. The crowd erupted, and 
the players poured onto the court 
in celebration.
After the match, 15th-year 
coach Ring praised the resilience of his squad: “ Any little slip-ups we had, we got ourselves right back on track – and that’s the sign of a really strong team, to be able to keep your composure when your opponent is very good and they’re pushing back, ” Ring said. “To see the guys’ composure in the late game—we were the better team a fter 20, a fter 18, and 
it was a great fight. ”
The Triton domination was 
evident on the box score, as they more than doubled the Bruin hit percentage (.360 to .179). In addition to McCauley and Harrison’s kill numbers, Shannon led both sides with 2 aces, 3 blocks, and 10 digs. The 
win was UCSD’s second against a ranked opponent this season, after a season-opening five-set 
win against Loyola University Chicago. 
Tactically, Ring noted the 
team’s technical execution as 
another reason for the win. “We 
served really well, pushed their guys o ff the net … We just really 
stayed on task, ” Ring said. “Every match we talk about some things we need to do a little better – we had a couple things before this match, and they did [those things] tonight. So that’s just the credit of a veteran team working hard, and the entire sta ff and 
players putting in a lot of work. ”
The Tritons will try and carry 
the momentum from the UCLA win (and the previous contest, another straight-set victory against Vassar College) into a four-game road trip, before returning to La Jolla to face Princeton University on Jan. 28.
“The season’s early, and we’ve 
got a lot of matches ahead of us, and a lot of training to do, ” Ring said. “It’s simple to say, but just one match at a time. ” 
But while Ring might 
emphasize that Friday’s victory was just another notch in the win column, to the hundreds of fans who streamed out of RIMAC Arena following the program’s biggest win in seven years, nothing could seem further from the truth.
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.eduPHOTOS COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTOS COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS