Accessed: 7/9/2020 Black Student Union Issues Statement of Demands to UCSD - UCSD Guardian
 July 6, 2020  Niloufar Shahbandi
The Black Student Union at UC San Diego released a statement  on June 22 with a list of 
demands for the university to improve conditions and allocate further  resources for 
Black students. The statement, driven by the ongoing nationwide police brutality 
protests, calls for cutting ties with the University of California Police Department, hiring 
more Black administrators, and increasing the Black student population on campus to 
10 percent by 2025. 
The BSU’s statement also addresses the recent hardships that have plagued the Black 
community, such as disproportionally higher COVID-19 death  rates as well as increasing 
reports of acts of hate toward Black people. 
Amid public outcry  for institutions to take action rather than solely express support, the 
BSU statement calls for UCSD administrators to take more meaningful measures. Many 
institutions have received criticism for only participating in performative acts, such as 
releasing statements of support without making substantial changes to their policies. To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 7/9/2020 Black Student Union Issues Statement of Demands to UCSD - UCSD Guardian
Over the past few weeks, multiple UC administrators have been involved in these  same 
public relations stunts, including UC President Janet Napolitano, Chancellor Pradeep  
Khosla, and various UCSD college provosts who have all sent emails in support of the  
national protests without taking any action.  
“In short, campus-wide emails expressing support are insufficient without actions that ‘go to  
the root’ of racial inequity,” the BSU statement reads. “Because we know that the actions  
offered to students are not broad or deep enough to address systemic racism at UCSD.”
Some of the immediate demands by the BSU involve changes to the format of remote classes  
and grading to relieve some of the stress placed on many underrepresented students. This  
includes policies such as asynchronous assignments, no-fault final exams, and reducing the  
grading workload for teaching and research assistants.
The BSU also demands that the university stop using vague terms such as “people of color”  
and instead use the term Black and African people to specifically address the specific  
hardships these communities face.
In line with national demands to defund the police, the BSU demands UCSD to “cut ties with  
and divest from University of California Police Department (UCPD) and local municipal  
police forces,” while transitioning to replace UCPD with a “community-controlled system of  
safety.” In the meantime, the BSU asks that the university be more transparent about 
UCPD’s budget to include spending on officer salaries, weapons, and technologies, as well as 
information on the terms and agreement of officers’ contracts. 
There have been other calls by student groups to dismantle the police departments at UC 
campuses, such as the June 2  statement  by the University of California Student Association.
Additionally, the statement criticizes the low number of Black students, staff, and faculty at 
UCSD. It demands that the university increase both its Black student and staff population to 
10 percent each, a figure that falls in between the statewide and national Black population. 
Since the university’s founding in 1960, its Black student population has never exceeded 
three percent, which is the lowest of all of the UC campuses. Black students only make up 
four percent of the student population across all UC campuses. 
To increase the Black population on campus, the BSU demands more ambitious recruitment  
efforts, which include hiring two full-time recruitment officers. Additionally, they ask thatAccessed: 7/9/2020 Black Student Union Issues Statement of Demands to UCSD - UCSD Guardian
the university prioritize recruiting Black students by developing relationships with certain  
schools, expanding the Historically Black Colleges and Universities exchange program, and  
introducing stronger incentives to recruit Black graduate students, among many other  
measures. 
Moreover, to create a more racially conscious campus environment, the statement demands  
that all UCSD faculty and staff undergo “mandatory, in-person anti-racist, culture, and  
diversity training every two years.” It also encourages increasing the number of Black deans,  
provosts, and UCSD administrators across all departments and “not just in equity and  
diversity positions.” 
Other demands by the BSU involve further expanding and celebrating the Black community  
on campus, such as creating a Black studies undergraduate major as well as a new college  
dedicated to Black culture and history. 
The statement gave the university a June 26, 2020 deadline to respond to these demands,  
but there has been no official response by administrators. 
The UCSD Guardian contacted the BSU and the UCSD News Center, but neither responded 
to requests for comment. 
Photo courtesy of Joe Riley for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 2/12/2021 BREAKING: International Students Solely with Online Courses Not Permitted to Stay in U.S. - UCSD Guardian
 July 7, 2020   Andrew Ha 
Please be aware that the US rescinded the international student ban on Tuesday, July 14, 2020. 
All students on F-1 or M-1 Visas are allowed to stay in the US regardless of whether they have 
in-person classes. To learn more, please refer to our Facebook post.
In a broadcast message  by the United States Immigration and  Customs Enforcement agency, 
international students on F-1 or M-1 student visas will not be allowed to be in the U.S. if  they are 
taking university courses entirely online in the fall. This comes as a change for ICE’s Student and 
Exchange  Visitor Program which permitted students to stay in the U.S. for last spring due to 
COVID-19. 
ICE stated that international students currently in the U.S. with entirely online coursework will 
not have their visas  renewed and must either leave the country or take other measures to have 
in-person courses. Students who plan to return  to the U.S. for online university will also be 
prevented from entering the country. 
Accessed: 2/12/2021 BREAKING: International Students Solely with Online Courses Not Permitted to Stay in U.S. - UCSD Guardian
This announcement comes following UC San Diego’s decision to have hybrid classes in Fall 
Quarter 2020 as part of its Return to Learn program. According to ICE, students attending 
schools using a hybrid model will be able to take multiple online courses but cannot take an 
entirely online courseload. In order for international students to stay on campus in the fall, 
they will need the university to complete an I-20 Form on their behalf to verify their eligibility 
for nonimmigrant student status.
The more than 5,600 international students on campus  at UCSD make up a total of 18.6 
percent of the undergraduate student population. As a whole, the University of  California has 
27,205 international students out of its total 226,125 undergraduate students. If the broadcast 
message  goes into effect, these students will be unable to be in the U.S. for their next quarter 
of study unless they take at least one  in-person course.
“Seeing how COVID played out in my own country [of China], I took the pandemic seriously, 
and at times even took over-the-top precautionary measures when nobody else did,” 
Thurgood Marshall College junior Irvin Yang said. “I did my best  to carry on with my life, but 
now we [international students] are forced to spend thousands of dollars on plane tickets, risk  
the lives of ourselves and our families, and possibly bring the virus back to our home 
countries. It is incredulous to see the  U.S. not only fail to control the pandemic but also make 
students’ lives unnecessarily difficult to get a degree. This is a  poor attempt to shift the blame 
toward Chinese international students, distracting from [the administration’s] own  failures.”
The University of California has announced on July 8 that it plans to ask the court to prevent 
the federal government from enacting their new international student visa policy. The suit 
argues that ICE did not follow the proper procedures for federal agencies to issue new 
regulations. It also claims that the university’s and the students’ reliant interests were not 
earnestly taken into consideration when the new policy was developed.
“The University of California’s legacy and leadership would not be the same without the 
international students and faculty who have come to this institution,” said UC Board of 
Regents Chair John A. Pérez in an press release. “It is imperative for UC to file this lawsuit in 
order to protect our students. To UC’s international students, I say: ‘We support you and 
regret the additional chaos ICE’s action has caused.’ To the courts, I say, ‘We are the 
University of California. UC knows science, UC knows law, and we approach both in good 
faith. Our opponents have shown you time and again that they do not.’”
Although this announcement came from a U.S. agency, the decision has not been codified and 
is not yet enforceable by law. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security will soon publishAccessed: 7/9/2020 BREAKING: International Students Solely with Online Courses Not Permitted to Stay in U.S. - UCSD Guardian
guidelines to make the broadcast message into a  temporary final rule.
If you or a friend are affected by this broadcast message, please contact  UCSD International 
Students and Programs Office for more information and next steps. To learn more about 
possible  courses to take in-person at UCSD, please visit this community-run spreadsheet.
This article was updated on 7/7/2020 at 8 PM to clarify the amount in-person classes UCSD 
students will need to take in order to stay in the US.
This article was updated on 7/8/2020 at 7:23 PM to include the University of California’s 
new court case against the federal government.
This article was updated on 7/14/2020 at 1:50 PM to state that the ban has been rescinded.
Photo courtesy of Eva Hambach via Getty Images.Accessed: 7/9/2020 UC System Must Follow Community Colleges, Do More to Support Students - UCSD Guardian
 July 8, 2020    Jack Dorfman 
As the Fall Quarter approaches, the reality of the proposed learning conditions due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic continues to sink in. For students and staff across the University of 
California campuses, even with Return to Learn plans in place, the situation still feels 
everchanging. No matter how specific the testing or distancing measures are,  plans for this 
fall will not fully satisfy students whose situations are in flux. 
The UC system has a responsibility to its students not only to educate, but also provide an 
environment that is  conducive to learning.
Access to housing and food that many students enjoyed six months ago now are up in the air, 
and international students  may not be allowed back on campus in the fall.  This is not an 
environment conducive to learning, especially when the  current social moment surrounding 
racial justice, while necessary and promising, provides additional emotional  stressors for 
students of color on campus.
Governor Gavin Newsom signed California’s 2020-21 budget into law early last week.
Accessed: 7/9/2020 UC System Must Follow Community Colleges, Do More to Support Students - UCSD Guardian
Changes to the  budget comes in response to earlier attempts from Newsom to slash education 
budgets  and other social services  that are needed now more than ever due to the pandemic. 
The new budget carves out roughly $202 billion dollars, of which nearly $2 billion will be 
headed to the California  Community College system, the California State University system, and 
the UC system. The CCC system is set to receive  nearly $800 million, while the latter two will 
each receive just under $500 million each. 
Despite similar figures going to each, there is one planned CCC program that varies widely from 
any required of the UC  system. Over the next budget year, the state government plans to 
provide community colleges with roughly $120 million  of state and federal funding  “to support 
a basic needs/learning  loss/COVID 19 response block grant to colleges to support expenses such 
as mental health services, housing and food  insecurity, reengagement for students who left 
college in Spring 2020, technology and development of online courses  and student supports.”
This sort of funding is nonexistent within the UC system budget. While the UC system may be 
too independent budget-wise for the state Legislature to control, that does not mean individual 
campuses can’t act quickly and reassure students  that some of this funding will go to supporting 
their well-being. 
Even though the UC system’s  own research  from 2017 found that five percent of undergraduate 
students experienced homelessness the year before  and four percent experienced both 
homelessness and food insecurity, its students are primed to receive no legislatively mandated 
relief from the state. Though the governor and state Legislature are not mandating any funds be 
spent to support impacted UC students, the UC system must act on its own accord on behalf of 
its students. 
While CCC students may generally be in a more pressing need category, with a 2019 report 
stating that 19 percent of students experienced homelessness at some point in the previous year, 
this does not diminish the struggles of UC students. The situation becomes increasingly 
pressing because of the widespread economic hardship facing students during the pandemic.
Some student groups  at UC San  Diego feel that they have not been protected by the university 
since the pandemic closed campus in March. Undergrads4COLA at UCSD articulated the 
findings of its Return to Learn Town Hall in late June in an email to the administration, 
explaining how “students, faculty, and parents are experiencing […] uncertainty, anxiety and 
insecurity due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and UCSD’s Return to Learn program is only 
exacerbating this uncertainty.” Accessed: 7/9/2020 UC System Must Follow Community Colleges, Do More to Support Students - UCSD Guardian
Although UC campuses across the state are losing money without students on campus, this does 
not excuse inaction  when it comes to supporting students, especially due to discretionary 
funding from the state in the proposed budget.  With $24.4 million  designated for “core 
operations, including … student support services” and a $169.2 million overall increase  in the  
systemwide budget, the UC system needs to act quickly to reassure struggling students that if  
they return to learn in the fall, they will not be left behind. 
Even in the midst of a pandemic, the UC system has financial flexibility that allows itself to  
broadly provide the necessary aid and services to students in large part due to the new state  
budget. The longer the UC system goes without supporting its at-risk students, the longer  
students must deal with the anxiety and frustration that stem from uncertainty. If the UC 
system portrays itself as supporting its students’ well-being, then a portion of the newly-
allocated state budget must be used towards that end. 
Photo by Sharon McCutcheon  on Unsplash  Accessed: 7/9/2020 Dr. Michael Drake Appointed as First Black UC President - UCSD Guardian
 July 8, 2020   Troy Tuquero 
Through a unanimous vote, the UC Board of Regents appointed Dr. Michael V. Drake as 
the next president of the UC system at a virtual teleconference meeting held on Tuesday, 
July 7. Drake succeeds UC President Janet Napolitano as the first Black person to hold 
the position  and is set to start on Aug. 1, 2020. 
Drake, who completed his M.D. and fellowship in ophthalmology from UC San Francisco, 
most recently served as president of The Ohio State University. Before that, Drake held 
multiple positions in the UC system, first serving as the systemwide Vice President of 
Health Affairs and later as Chancellor of UC Irvine.
In a press statement  released by the UCOP, Drake was touted for his accomplishments in 
these roles. As Chancellor of UC Irvine, Drake oversaw a more than 18 percent increase in 
four-year graduation rates and increases in undergraduate enrollment and diversity. 
7/9/2020 Dr. Michael Drake Appointed as First Black UC President - UCSD Guardian
At Ohio State, Drake’s tenure saw “record-high applications and graduation rates,  
groundbreaking research and strong donor support,” according to the statement. He  
spearheaded several programs focused on student access and affordability, such as a 
tuition guarantee program and increased grants to lower income students.
UC Newsroom
@UC_Newsroom
This just in: The University of California Board of Regents have 
announced the appointment of Michael V. Drake, M.D., as the 
21st president of UC’s world-renowned system. Learn more: 
bit.ly/2ZP4qP8
5:27 PM · Jul 7, 2020
1.7K 608 people are Tweeting about this
“Much has changed in the 15 years since I was given the privilege of becoming Chancellor at 
UC Irvine, but not my absolute belief in this great University and its time-honored  
mission,” Drake said. “I look forward to working with the regents, chancellors, students, 
faculty, staff, alumni, and our broader community as we, together, guide the University 
through the challenging times ahead. Brenda and I are thrilled to be back. Fiat Lux!”
Napolitano announced her plans to retire from her position as UC President on Sept. 18, 
2019. The UC Board of Regents established a special committee soon after to begin the ten-
month process to find a replacement that met the strict criteria they established.Accessed: 7/9/2020 Dr. Michael Drake Appointed as First Black UC President - UCSD Guardian
“Stepping down as president of the University of California is bittersweet, especially after seven  
wonderful, dynamic years, but I depart knowing Dr. Michael Drake will lead with experience  
and integrity, with the critical support and guidance of the UC Board of Regents,” Napolitano  
said. “Michael has my full confidence, and I am excited to see how his fresh infusion of ideas  and 
new perspectives will shape the University in the months and years ahead.”
Napolitano’s seven-year term had success in a variety of policy initiatives. Under her  
administration, the UC Office of the President announced the  Carbon Neutrality Initiative  in 
2013 to  commit UC buildings and vehicle fleets to having a net zero carbon footprint by 2025. In  
September of 2017, the UC system was the first university to sue President Donald Trump’s  
administration for ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals  program. 
However in 2017, the California State Auditor accused  Napolitano’s office of hiding $175 million  
dollars in slush funds from the UC Board of Regents and the public. Additionally, Napolitano’s  
term saw mass protests by graduate students calling for a cost- of- living adjustment, which led  
to the mass firing  of 74 UC Santa Cruz teaching assistants in March  2020 for participating in a 
grading strike.
Drake and John Perez, chair of the UC Regents, will be hosting a live-streamed conversation at 
11:30 a.m. on  Friday, July 10 for Drake’s formal introduction to the UC community. Drake will  
officially take  over as UC President on Aug. 1 in the midst of great social upheaval and a public  
health crisis due to COVID-19.
Photo taken by Susan Walsh for the Associated Press.Accessed: 7/17/2020 UC Students Call for Divestment from Mauna Kea Project - UCSD Guardian
UC Students Call for Divestment from Mauna Kea Project
 July 11, 2020   Zhuoying Lin 
The Associated Students of UC San Diego’s Office of External Affairs penned a  statement to the 
UC Board of Regents on July 6, calling for the UC system to divest from the Thirty Meter 
Telescope  project located at Mauna Kea, Hawaii. The project aims to build the largest visible-
light telescope in the world with its 30-meter prime mirror diameter and provide new  
observations in the field of astronomy.   
The statement claimed that the TMT poses a religious and cultural threat to the native  
Hawaiian people, who regard the mountain of Mauna Kea as a sacred place.
“The project stands in blatant violation of multiple articles in the United Nations Declaration of 
the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,” the statement reads. “The UC partnership and participation  
in the TMT project not only violates these provisions, but also underscores the University of 
California’s continued disregard towards indigenous populations.” 
The statement was shared across UC campuses and has received hundreds of endorsements  
from individual students and campus organizations.
Accessed: 7/17/2020 UC Students Call for Divestment from Mauna Kea Project - UCSD Guardian
“We were asked to make a statement by the Mauna Kea Protectors,  which is what caused the 
creation of this open letter,”  Vice President of External Affairs Alisha Saxena said. “The 
Mauna Kea Protectors need our  support in any way possible, and we thought that bringing 
student support in one place would  make that impact statement to really force the UC Board 
of Regents to reconsider their  investment.”
Despite numerous lawsuits  by Native Hawaiian cultural  practitioners such as the Mauna 
Kea Anaina Hou, the Supreme Court of Hawaii permitted the  construction of TMT on top of 
Mauna Kea in October 2018 — site construction began in July  2019. According to the 
statement, the UC system has pledged more than $68 million for the  project while the 
project is anticipated to cost $2.4 billion dollars. 
“The UC needs to reconsider its actions pertaining to indigenous peoples in California 
obviously, but also beyond,” said Sixth College Senator Zaccary Bradt. “This [divestment] 
would represent  a turning point for the UC and a start to respecting the lands and rights of 
indigenous peoples.”
Mauna Kea was chosen as a preferred site by the Thirty Meter Telescope International  
Observatory for a TMT in 2009 after a thorough evaluation of the site’s quality and the 
atmospheric properties that were deemed  crucial for the performance of the telescope, 
including water vapor and wind speed. The TMT’s  construction is expected to be completed 
in July 2027.
The Office of External Affairs’s statement will be sent to the UC Regents on Saturday, July 
11 after endorsements close on the evening of Friday, July 10. 
Picture taken by Caleb Jones for the Associated Press.