Accessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: T
wo UCSD Health Workers Test Positive for Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: Two UCSD Health Workers Test Positive for 
Coronavirus
 March 16, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
Two UC San Diego health workers have tested positive for COVID-19, according to an 
announcement made by the UCSD administration on Monday, March 16. This marks the first 
reported case of the virus for any member of the UCSD community, and comes after students 
at both San Diego State University and the University of San Diego tested positive  for the 
virus on Friday, March 13.
The announcement, which was made via Triton Alerts, said that UCSD Health is working to 
identify any other individuals who may have come into contact with the virus.Accessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: T
wo UCSD Health Workers Test Positive for Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
“UC San Diego Health has launched an extensive effort to identify any patients or health  
system colleagues who may have been in recent contact with either of the two health  
workers,” the statement said.
No other UCSD health workers, students, or faculty have tested positive for COVID-19 at the  
time of this article’s publication. Students are encouraged to wash their hands frequently and  
not spend time in large groups of people if possible in order to prevent the spread of the  virus.
The UCSD Guardian will continue to monitor this story as it develops.
Photo by McKenna Johnson for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/22/2020 COVID-19: UC Regents Postpone Five-Year Tuition Increase Vote in Wake of Coronavirus Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
The University of California Regents have postponed a vote on a five-year tuition 
increase due  to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Los Angeles Times. The vote 
was scheduled to take place this  week after having been originally postponed from 
taking place during the Regent’s Jan. 22,  2020 meeting.
The increase would have resulted in an initial two percent increase in tuition for 
incoming students in the 2020-2021 academic year, and would have had smaller 
subsequent annual increases  each academic year through 2024-2025.
UC Regents board Chairman John Peréz explained the decision to postpone the vote in 
an interview with the Los Angeles Times.
anticipate is  not the right course of action,” Peréz said.
COVID-19: Two UCSD Health Workers Test Positive for 
Coronavirus
 March 16, 2020 Jacob Sutherland“In this moment of great uncertainty, adding a change to people who couldn’t fully 
anticipate is not the right course of action,” Peréz said.COVID-19: UC Regents Postpone Five-Year Tuition Increase Vote in Wake of Coronavirus Pandemic - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/22/2020
The increase plan, which was one of two  originally proposed, would  have raised 
funds to supplement the $217.7 million new, permanent funds that were proposed  
by Governor Gavin Newsom in his 2020-2021 fiscal year budget. The funds raised 
by the increase would be allocated primarily towards further supporting UC 
students who currently  receive need-based grants.
The March 18 meeting where the increase would have been voted on was held 
virtually using Zoom due to the coronavirus outbreak. This marks the latest change 
in UC system  protocol due to the virus, as campuses have transitioned to online 
coursework for the remainder  of the school year and several have canceled 
graduation ceremonies.
The UC Regents have yet to announce when the tuition increase vote will take place. 
Their next scheduled meeting is set to be  held from May 19 through May 21 at UC 
San Francisco Mission Bay.
Screenshot courtesy of the University of California Board of Regents.