Planning and enrolling in 
classes is arguably one of the 
most exciting and stress-inducing periods of the quarter. Many 
Tritons view each quarter as 
a fresh start with new classes, 
professors, and opportunities. 
For others, however, whether or not they are able to enroll in a 
required class could determine 
when they graduate. Some courses that meet major 
and college requirements are only offered at certain points througout 
the year. For example, MMW 14 
and MMW 15 are required to 
graduate as an Eleanor Roosevelt 
College student, but they are only 
offered during Winter and Spring 
quarters, unless students want 
to take them over the summer. 
Likewise, many necessary courses within the Math and Engineering 
departments are only offered on a 
limited, quarterly basis.  Additionally, due to the size 
of the campus, students have to consider the distance between 
their classes’ locations when 
planning their schedule. The 
average passing period between 
lectures is about ten minutes. The 
ability to plan classes back-to-
back can unfortunately all too 
often rely upon access to a bicycle 
or skateboard. 
These dilemmas raise the Two Associated Students Senators have alleged 
that A.S. Advocate General Hannah Kreitman has 
taken steps to increase future Executive Board powers and has been recruiting students with 
little A.S. knowledge to join a potential slate ahead 
of the 2020 A.S. Elections in Spring Quarter. 
These actions are allegedly taking place to allow Kreitman and others elected to the Executive Board to have the ability to more easily pass their own rules of conduct.
According to two Senators who requested 
anonymity for fear of retaliation, Kreitman 
has been contacting students with little to no 
knowledge of or experience with A.S. Council 
to run in a potential, unannounced slate. 
Recruitment is not considered to be a form 
of campaigning, something which is prohibited from taking place outside of the allotted campaign 
period. This year’s period begins on Feb. 24.
Kreitman was originally appointed to the 
Advocate General position in January 2019, and has also been serving as the Chief of Staff for the 
Office of the President. The Advocate General is 
a completely neutral position that serves to offer 
guidance towards decisions made within A.S. 
Council and the Standing Rules Committee.
Allegedly, the potential slate will include 
Kreitman running for Vice President of Campus 
Affairs and Campus Wide Senator Kimberly 
Giangtran running for A.S. President. Neither 
Kreitman nor Giangtran confirmed or denied any 
intentions to run for these positions. However, Kreitman did comment on the separation of the 
roles one has as a candidate and as a student leader in a statement to the UCSD Guardian.
“I do … want to reiterate the importance of 
separating a student leader from their current 
role within AS and any potential future roles, ” Kreitman wrote. “There is a hard line drawn, separating one’s current position and any work 
they do for their role, from their role as a candidate and what they potentially can do in the future. ”
According to the anonymous Senators, 
Kreitman has been recruiting people to join a 
potential slate, predominantly adding first-year 
and inexperienced students on Facebook and messaging them online. Kreitman has allegedly maintained a standard of not disclosing who else would potentially be running to the recruits.
One student, who requested anonymity 
because they agreed to join Kreitman’s potential 
slate if it manifests itself, spoke about the draw 
that Kreitman’s recruiting methods had.
“I decided on joining Hannah’s slate because 
I felt that I had no chance at winning if I didn’t, 
since running as an independent is so much harder, ” they said.
Angel Gomez, a John Muir College sophomore 
and the Environmental Advocate for Muir College Council, spoke to the Guardian about how despite 
having no interest or experience with A.S. slates, 
Kreitman attempted to add him on Facebook.
“I denied her friend request on Facebook 
because I felt uneasy about the whole thing, ” 
Gomez said. “It was only once [a Senator] told 
me about all of the slating issues within AS that I 
remembered Hannah requested me. The timing 
of it is close to when [a Senator] told me this was 
all happening. [They] told me this last week that 
Hannah had been approaching members to slate 
the weeks prior, which was around the time when she requested me. ”
Gomez went on to comment about Kreitman’s 
recruitment strategy at large.
“I find Hannah’s strategy extremely immoral, ” 
Gomez said. “She is only gathering slate members so she can have a constant presence on Library Walk for tabling come election season … She VOLUME 53, ISSUE 17  TUESDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 18, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CURIOUS TRITONS
Curious Tritons: How is the Schedule of  Classes Generated? 
Tritons defeat UC Irvine volleyball team in the Saturday game. // Photo by Ellie Wang
By  jacob  sutherland   News EditorAS
AS Senators Allege Attempted Power Abuse Ahead of  ElectionPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"As an American coming 
into the Korean music 
industry, and a Korean-
American coming into the 
Western music industry, 
Nam has always been 
different."
CODEPENDENCY
ROAD  TRIP  DESTINATIONSUNHEAL THY  RELA TIONSHIPS
CALIFORNIA  ADVENTURESOpinion,  Page 4
LIFESTYLE,  PAGE 10
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Even in a film nearly 
devoid of men, 
Marianne and Héloïse 
remain subject 
to the demands 
of a patriarchal, 
heteronormative world 
that discourages the 
natural expressions of 
women.”TUESDAY
 H 63 L 51
THURSDAY
H 67 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 63 L 49
FRIDAY
H 62 L 52
IN SUPPORT OF COLA..4
BEYHIVE MOMMA..........6
ZACK VILLERE................9 
ESSENTIAL OILS...........11
TRITON TIMEOUT..........16Laura Hatanaka
Portrait of a Girl on Fire
 PAGE 9In this week’s editon of Curious Tritons, we examined course scheduling and quarterly class creation.
BY  Daisy  Scott
Editor-in-chiefCONCERT REVIEW:
ERIC NAM
A&E, page 8
See SCHEDULES,  page 2See ALLEGATIONS,  page 2
Students Employees 
Rally for Affordable 
Housing
The demonstration took place on 
library walk in conjunction with the 
broader ‘COLA ’ movement.
Rallying for affordable housing 
and an end to rent burdens, UC 
San Diego Academic Student 
Employees marched from Library 
Walk to the Chancellor’s Office 
on Feb. 10, 2020. Taking part in 
the Cost of Living Adjustment 
movement, these students called upon the university to take greater 
steps to reduce the costs of student 
housing to promote affordability. 
Working in conjunction with 
the United Automobile Workers 
2865 union, the protesting 
students noted that they are paying on average $1,067 per 
month for rent and utilities even 
though they are earning a post-
fee salary of $2,259 per month. 
This housing cost would equate 
to 47 percent of the students’ total 
earnings, which is well beyond the 30 percent baseline to be defined 
as rent burdened by the United 
States Department of Housing 
and Urban Development. 
“The first demand is to give 
a housing stipend to all of the student teachers and graduate 
students on campus so that we are 
no longer rent burdened, ” third-
year graduate student and UAW 
2865 organizing committee lead 
Dillon Travis said to the UCSD 
Guardian. “The university has 
new graduate student housing that 
they are charging an exorbitant 
amount of money on and we can’t afford it. And our third demand is 
that in the future, they build more 
high-density affordable housing 
on campus as well. ” 
Once the march made it to the 
Chancellor’s Office, the protestors 
left a letter for Chancellor Pradeep Khosla regarding housing 
affordability. However, according 
to the UAW , no one from the 
office has reached out to them. 
“The protest is not over, ” Travis 
said. “The administration has not 
contacted us at all and they do not want to open up bargaining. So 
we will continue to escalate the 
situation … We are going to have 
more and more demonstrations as 
the year goes by. Not just marches, 
but we will have grade-ins and 
[use other methods of] civil disobedience. ”
The UCSD administration 
has responded in return by 
stressing that they are supporting 
the Graduate Division at levels which exceed all the tuition that is 
collected. $150 million is allocated 
annually to support PhD students, 
$21 million for teaching assistant 
salaries and $72 million in grant funding. 
“Effective January 1, 2020, 
any graduate student within the 
period of support guaranteed 
by their admission letter is now 
supported at the minimum level 
equivalent to a 50 percent TAship (20 hours per week employment); 
in prior years, some such students CAMPUS
BY  andrew  ha
news editor
See PROTEST,  page 22 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. I just flew in this 
morning and boy are my arms tired.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Andrew Ha
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Co-Editor
 
Opinion EditorSports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Alex Rickard
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 is targeting inexperienced people 
because they are believing in her 
promise of power, but it’s unlikely 
that a slate comprised of these 
people will bring about anything 
substantial. ”
One of the anonymous Senators 
told the Guardian that they felt 
these practices were being utilized in an effort to fill the potential 
slate with students who would be 
less likely to question the authority 
of Kreitman and Giangtran.
“Why would you want an 
executive board that’s super 
experienced and knowledgeable 
but trying to fill the slate with 
people who have no experience, ” the Senator said. “They are 
reaching out to people and 
purposely keeping them in the dark. Imagine being on a slate and not finding out who the president 
is until election season comes 
around. ”
In a statement to the Guardian, 
Giangtran neither confirmed nor 
denied any of the allegations, although she did comment at large 
on the practice of recruiting first-
year students and students with 
little to no experience with A.S. 
Council to run.
“I believe that any individual 
interested in running for office has the right and should be able to ‘recruit first-year 
and inexperienced students, ’” Giangtran said. “[These] students provide an extremely overlooked 
and necessary viewpoint that is 
essential to making Associated 
Students a productive body … By restricting candidates to a 
limited and exclusive pool, one 
is doing a great disservice by 
leaving out students who come 
from underrepresented and 
underserved communities that 
need a seat at the table. ”
While these recruitment 
efforts have been taking place, 
members of the Standing Rules Committee have been pushing 
for an amendment to the A.S. 
Constitution that would allow 
the VPCA to have the ability to 
decrease the pay of Senators and 
A.S. Executive Board members. 
The committee is comprised of Kreitman, A.S. President Eleanor Grudin, A.S. Vice President of Campus Affairs Melina Reynoso, and several other A.S. members 
and advisors.
The proposed amendment, 
which was outlined in documents 
obtained by the Guardian from one of the anonymous Senators, 
reads: “Pay can be withheld at the discretion of the VPCA, who will be responsible for reporting 
deductions to the Clerk, for the 
following work related expectations 
based on the following criteria: Pay 
will be reduced by a factor of 0.25 of the original amount for each 
of the following: Outreach hour 
not completed, Weekly report not 
completed. ”
This amendment would also 
allow for A.S. Executive Board members to their own rules of conduct for their individual positions up to three weeks into 
the new Senate term after they are 
elected.
Reynoso explained the 
reasoning behind her personal 
push for the proposed amendment in an interview with the Guardian.
“I think that it’s really important 
to have accountability for ourselves to the students because we are 
elected or appointed officials and 
we are using student fee money to compensate ourselves for the work 
that we’re doing, ” Reynoso said. “In the past we’ve had exec who do 
the bare minimum that they can do when they’re receiving such a high stipend … The purpose is to 
make sure that we’re accountable 
and that we have people in the 
positions that are doing the work for the students that the students 
deserve to have. ”
Reynoso said that the reasoning 
behind having Executive Board 
members define their own 
individual rules is because each 
position on the board varies in 
responsibilities and commitments, so there is no way to create a standard for every member. Likewise, Reynoso explained that 
because each elected Executive 
Board member has the ability to 
do their own projects from year 
to year, there is no clear cut way 
to create a strict standard for any 
given position beyond a handful of parameters, although having a set of general guidelines was proposed to the Senate.
“To Senate, I did point out that 
whatever we do, that if we keep the same system that we’re gonna have 
a clear set of expectations … so 
that way we’re not able to shirk on our responsibilities, ” Reynoso said. 
“I find it really concerning that [the anonymous Senators] didn’t bring this point to your attention 
because it was specifically stated 
and talked about on Senate floor. ”
According to the anonymous 
Senators, having a Senate full of inexperienced members who 
do not know one another would 
allow Kreitman and Giangtran to 
have their drafted rules of conduct more easily passed.
“It seems like Hannah and 
Kimberly really want to have a stronger executive board and be able to push legislation that they 
want without any objections, 
which it would be easier to do 
with people who don’t have any 
experience, ” one of the anonymous 
senators said.
In response to this claim, 
Reynoso explained that a set of 
standards would be drafted to 
allow for the future A.S. members 
to see what each position should 
be responsible for.
“I think some concerns were 
brought up … in terms of like, 
well there’s a new senate so it 
could come off as they don’t know what an exec should be doing so we could get to a point in a year 
where an exec could just propose 
something because they know 
they can get away with it, ” Reynoso said. “[This] is why within the 
committee we’re going to create 
a set of standards and have those 
get approved by Senate in order to 
see what a good set of standards 
would look like. ”
Reynoso went on to explain that 
the nature of Kreitman’s position 
as Advocate General removes any ability for her to push an agenda with any given amendment 
proposed in the committee.
“Our Advocate General is 
a completely neutral position, ” 
Reynoso said. “Their job is to not 
have an opinion, so anything that 
we talk about or ask about in the committee is more logistical. Any notion of them pushing an agenda just literally would not work especially when our A.S. advisors 
are in there to make sure that the 
person in that position is neutral. ”
Kreitman reiterated this notion 
in her statement to the Guardian.
“Compensation procedure, 
as talked about in standing rules 
committee, is a direct reflection of an assembly members attendance 
and therefore would fall under my 
job description, ” Kreitman wrote. 
“I was a part of that conversation 
because I, more than anyone, understand attendance protocol. 
However, the advocate general is 
a neutral party within AS, so I 
have no say over whether or not compensation procedure should 
be changed, I only comment on 
how it would work if the voting members decide to change it. ”
While the amendment was 
ultimately not voted on when it 
was up for debate during the Jan. 15 
2020 A.S. meeting, Reynoso noted 
that future discussions on such 
an amendment would be more inclusive in regards to the timing 
of the Standing Rules Committee 
to allow every Senator interested 
in voicing their opinions on the 
matter to be able to do so.
Reynoso concluded by 
speaking at large on the nature of A.S. and the perception that students have of the elected body 
and its members.
“I feel like there’s this notion 
about A.S. and exec that we’re 
doing things to like ‘gain prestige’ 
or ‘put something on our resumes, ’” 
Reynoso said. “That notion is very upsetting to me as exec because 
that isn’t our intention at all. We’re 
literally here serving students, 
working 40 hours a week, and 
we’re not getting paid as much 
as we should be. But we’re doing 
things to make students’ lives 
better. ”
Kreitman and Giangtran have 
neither confirmed nor denied any intentions of running in 
the next election. Likewise, no 
discussion on a future amendment 
in regards to pay deductions has 
been scheduled at the time of this 
article’s publication.The proposed amendment would allow future Executive Boards to set their own standards of  conduct
▶ ALLEGATIONS , from page 1
News  Team   news@ucsdguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
FEEDBACK FORUM
For more information, contact AS Campus Aﬀairs at asvpcampusaﬀairs@ucsd.edu.Join Associated Students and voice your opinion at our 
monthly Feedback Forum. We will be asking for your 
feedback on the current campus construction.TOPIC:
CAMPUS
CONSTRUCTION FREE FOOD!Tuesday, February 18 • 4–5 pm
Red Shoe Room • Price Center West, Level 2were supported at lower levels, but that 
is no longer occurring, ” a university 
spokesperson said to the Guardian in 
an email. “The Graduate Division is also 
presently working with academic units, 
GSA, and Student Affairs to strengthen 
fellowship support, smooth the matching 
process between students and TAships, and better match TAships with courses 
according to pedagogical needs. ”
Even with these initiatives, COLA 
and UAW believe more needs to be done. Depending on which demands 
the organization has outlined, they will 
have to work with either the university 
administration or the self-supporting 
Housing, Dining, and Hospitality 
department. Because student housing is controlled by HDH, bargaining will 
become a more complex process. 
“Our demands for having a 
housing stipend will come from the 
administration, ” Travis said. “For our demands for affordable housing, we would have to have the university bargain 
on our behalf to HDH or we will have 
to bargain directly with HDH. But the 
administration, as we continue to escalate 
[protests], will try to divide faculty, 
student teachers, and undergraduates. In 
the coming months, it is important we are all united in solidarity. ”
In response to student demands, the 
administration has also made efforts to 
highlight their current support programs and to refute claims that housing is not 
affordable. 
“UC San Diego is committed to 
providing on-campus housing for 
students at rates that are at least 20 
percent below market value, ” the spokesperson said. “ Additional support 
for student needs is also available. UC 
San Diego has established a Basic Needs 
Emergency Fund to directly support 
students needing assistance up to $1,500. The Basic Needs Hub provides resource referrals for UC San Diego students 
from a collective of on campus program 
collaborations and services, and off 
campus program partnerships in the 
greater San Diego area. ”
That 20 percent, the protestors claim, 
is not enough to offset the high costs of housing. Urban affluent areas like La 
Jolla remain expensive for students to 
live even when the 20 percent is factored 
into the overall monthly rent costs.
To learn more about UAW’s 
demands, please refer to their Cost of Living Framework Summary. The 
administration has noted that HDH 
holds regular meetings to discuss the 
budget, the next being held on Feb. 24, that students can attend to share their 
opinions.PROCRASTINATION
By Michi Sora
COLA protests took place concurrently to the one at UCSD on other UC Campuses 
Course scheduling is primarly handled by the Scheduling Office, which processes proposed class times▶ PROTEST , from page 1
▶ SCHEDULES , from page 1
question: How is the schedule of classes 
generated each quarter? 
Unfortunately, there is no single, 
straightforward answer regarding how many courses or sections of each course 
are offered. Every academic department 
within UC San Diego is individually 
responsible for deciding which courses 
will be available in upcoming quarters. 
“The process is very detailed and 
specific to each department, ” a representative from the Roger Revelle 
College Academic Advising office 
commented to the UCSD Guardian.
The departments take into account 
details such as professor availability and graduation requirements when outlining 
any given quarter’s course selections. The 
size of classrooms largely determines the 
location of each course. 
Departments then submit their course 
plans to the Scheduling Office, which oversees the process of organizing the 
master schedule of classes that is later 
listed online on WebReg for students. Each department must submit their course plans, including professors, 
building locations, and enrollment limits by a set deadline. 
For instance, in order to plan the 
upcoming Spring Quarter, academic departments had to submit their initial 
course schedule paperwork by Oct. 24, 
2019. The Scheduling Office reviewed 
each of the files, and after running the 
completed schedules by the departments 
one more time for any final revisions, 
the complete Spring 2020 quarter class 
schedule was finalized on Jan. 21, 2020 and made available to students on Feb. 7. 
Regarding the class times, the 
Scheduling Office has a timetable of 
standard teaching times for reference. 
Departments whose courses align with 
these standard times are given priority 
with room reservations. All other classes 
who do not fit the standard schedule are 
generally moved to take place after 5 p.m. 
If for some reason issues arise after 
the class schedule has been published online and the enrollment period 
has begun, the Scheduling Office has 
protocols in place to make revisions. 
These revisions include requesting 
new sections for courses, increasing or 
capping the amount of students in a 
course, cancelling courses, and changing 
professor assignments. Each of these change requests are the responsibility of 
the individual academic departments. 
The Scheduling Office also has 
procedures for class schedule changes 
in the middle of the quarter. Examples 
of this include if a department wants to 
reserve classrooms beyond their usual schedule for review sessions or finals, or 
to add a new section for a course. 
Students interested in learning more 
about course scheduling should contact 
their major and college departments. To 
learn more about the scheduling office, 
visit their page at blink.ucsd.edu. 
Daisy  scott   editor@ucsdguardian.orgAndrew  Ha   news@ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
This past Friday was Valentine’s Day, which means students were inundated 
with couples romantic Instagram posts, people walking around with cute 
Valentine’s day gi fts, and sights of couples being “cutesy” and declaring their 
undying love for another. However, I found it interesting that I saw these couples together all the time. In fact, they seemed unable to function without each other. And, the more I thought about it, the more I realized that UC San Diego might be encouraging such seemingly codependent and unhealthy relationships. A fter all, 
UCSD’s “socially dead” environment, disconnected campus, and underfunded mental health and student support services make it harder for students to build healthy relationships with friends, signi ficant others, and themselves, creating 
conditions where students are more likely to fall into abusive and codependent relationships. 
For one, UCSD’s campus layout and culture makes it di fficult for students 
to meet people, learn about campus happenings and entities, build campus community, and create a support system. According to data from the University of California’s 2010-11 financial report, UCSD’s campus is the largest urban campus 
among the UC campuses and about five times larger than UCLA ’s. Moreover, 
the university is separated into several colleges and campuses and its student centers seldom hold large-scale events or even have spaces to fit the thousands 
of students on campus at once. This environment makes it harder for students 
to run into the same people, see friends without excessive planning, and come together as a campus community. Additionally, UCSD’s research-heavy culture discourages social mingling. As such, it becomes harder for students to prioritize social connections over academic and professional development. Consequently, students struggle to build connections organically, feel like a part of a larger community, build a support system conducive to emotional and mental health, and be in healthy relationships.
Furthermore, UCSD’s isolationist and cut-throat culture makes people feel 
like they have to look out completely for themselves. This puts students, already 
struggling in UCSD’s isolationist environment, at increased risk for mental health problems and unhealthy relationships. For example, because UCSD’s academic culture normalizes unhealthy behavior, a UCSD student facing mental health concerns may be less likely to acknowledge their issues. Moreover, UCSD’s anti-social climate worsens students’ mental health. According to a 2020 article published in Psychology Today by Dr. Rob Whitley, loneliness is a risk factor for adverse mental health outcomes and a barrier for mental health recovery. While this is concerning in and of itself, it is especially concerning because people struggling with mental health concerns are more likely to be in codependent relationships. According to an article by psychotherapist April Eldemere, those struggling with mental health concerns are at a higher risk for codependent relationships. 
As Eldemere explains, “codependency is an unhealthy relationship pattern that manifests as one partner enabling another person’s poor mental health, addiction, and/or coping strategies. ” According to Eldermere, people struggling with mental health issues are likely to use unhealthy habits to cope if they are not receiving necessary treatment, and a codependent relationship can serve as that coping mechanism. Thus, since UCSD students struggle to build support 
systems and access mental health assistance, they are likely more likely to rely on significant others to cope. While relying on signi ficant others for support is not 
inherently unhealthy, that reliance can turn into a codependent or even abusive relationship if it becomes a coping mechanism for more serious mental health concerns.
Similarly, according to the Youth.gov website, a tool created by the U.S. 
government to disseminate information regarding youth issues and programs, depressed mood, maladaptive or antisocial behaviors, unhealthy coping mechanisms, and low help-seeking proclivities make people more likely to be victims of an abusive relationship. This is important because these are all 
behaviors UCSD’s culture can worsen. Our anti-social environment can increase 
depression and our di fficult-to-access resources can make people less likely to 
change unhealthy coping mechanisms and discourage help-seeking. Thus, UCSD’s 
culture creates conditions that put those most susceptible to abusive relationships 
at increased risk. Moreover, according to an article in Psychology Today, victims are likely to stay in abusive relationships due to low-self esteem, lack of outside emotional support, financial and logistical dependence, and love for their abusers. 
This information is important because in both cases, a lack of outside emotional 
support and reliance could keep students in harmful relationships. Thus, while 
UCSD does not necessarily create unhealthy relationships, it creates situations where students are encouraged to rely on unhealthy relationships to get the support and help they need, pushing them into toxic and abusive relationships.
Therefore, “UC Socially Dead” and a campus with underfunded student 
services and resource centers make it harder for its students to have healthy relationships with themselves and others. Combating these challenges requires dealing with UCSD’s lonely culture, resource allocation towards student well-being and mental health resources, and mental health stigma. Still, despite systemic barriers to mental and emotional health and healthy relationships, students have some control over the situation. For example, despite shortcomings, CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center works to prevent unhealthy relationships and is a helpful resource for victims. Moreover, the rest of us can begin changing campus culture as well by reevaluating our relationships, our desire for love, and the value-systems through which we validate ourselves and our peers. A fter all, 
romance does not determine emotional well-being, internal validation is much more important than good grades and picture-perfect Instagram shots, and love comes in many forms — self-love, romantic love, familial love, and platonic love — but it de finitely does not come as dependence or abuse.  I See, UC(SD), We All See 
Unhealthy Relationships 
By: Pankhuri Kohli  // Contributing Writer
ART BY YUI KITAART BY YUI KITAOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui KitaOpen Letter to the Chancellor: Y es to COLA
My name is Alex Aslam Ahmed (Revelle College 
‘11), and I am about to complete my PhD in Computer 
Science at Northeastern University in Boston. A decade ago, I was working towards my bachelor’s degree at UCSD, while writing for the Guardian and the Muir Quarterly. During that time, my graduate TAs were instrumental to my education. I write now in support of UCSD graduate workers’ demands for a cost-of-living 
adjustment (COLA) amounting to $1422 per month. I 
am also asking you to do all in your power to increase the 
availability of a ffordable graduate student housing. I can 
say with complete certainty that I will not be donating to 
UCSD until these demands are met, and I will be urging my fellow alumni to do the same.
My TA for Revelle’s intensive Humanities course series 
completely transformed my educational experience for the better. While my professor’s lectures were important, it was my TA ’s thoughtful feedback on my essays, clarifying discussion sections, and one-on-one meetings during his o ffice hours that made the course 
so impactful. I o ften say, completely seriously, that this 
TA taught me how to write, and those skills have had cascading positive e ffects on my work since then.
When I was an undergraduate, I did not fully understand the nature of graduate student labor. Now that I am a PhD student myself, I do. As a result, I am filled with appreciation for all of my former TAs at 
UCSD. My colleagues at Northeastern and I have been trying to improve our working conditions -- the low pay, mistreatment from advisors, lack of a ffordable housing 
and comprehensive health care, especially for those with families or dependents, and a host of other issues -- by 
forming a union, but my university’s administration 
refuses to fairly bargain with us. 
Please set a positive example for other institutions by 
engaging with your graduate students in good faith and giving them a COLA, thus addressing the very serious and worsening problems of housing and financial 
insecurity. Otherwise, the quality of education that UCSD undergrads receive will suff er.
Thank you for your attention to this matter.
By: Alex Ahmed
Doctoral Student, Personal Health Informatics
Northeastern University
ART BY ANTHONY TRANART BY ANTHONY TRAN6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
If you ask the average person to name the matriarch of 
Beyoncé’ s fandom, a first guess is likely to be Tina Knowles-
Lawson, Beyoncé’s mother, or maybe even Queen Bey herself. But for the 150,000 members of the aptly titled Facebook page “BEYHIVE” and the private page “BEYHIVE MOMMA, ” one distinct person comes to mind: Gwen Denholm.
Ms. Denholm, who is lovingly referred to as “Momma” by the 
group’s members and requested to be referred to as “Momma Gwen” throughout the remainder of this article, is a 53-year-old Beyoncé superfan from Scotland. She originally began listening to Beyoncé in the early 2000s when the singer was a part of Destiny’s Child, but one song that particularly stuck out to Momma Gwen was “Diva. ”
“No one song got me into Beyoncé, but if I had to pick one I 
would have to say Diva, ” Momma Gwen said. “My husband jokes about me being a diva, so I kind of took that as my song. ”
Momma Gwen explained that she eventually got an iPod and 
would use it to listen to her favorite Beyoncé songs. This proved to be especially useful when she was later diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder, which led to her being hospitalized and unable to work at the time.
“I was hospitalized for 5 months and Beyoncé’s music really 
pulled me through, ” Momma Gwen said. “No other artist has 
done anything like that for me besides Beyoncé. Her strength, 
her energy, her standing for her beliefs meant so much for me that I kept that in my head and it helped me. ”
Momma Gwen would go on to continue listening to Beyoncé’s 
music, attending several of her concerts over the years. However, it would not be until early 2018 when Momma Gwen would first join the Facebook group “BEYHIVE. ” Here, Momma Gwen found herself in a community of individuals who all had a 
similar love for Queen Bey.
Shortly after joining, Momma Gwen began to be referred to 
as the group’s momma after engaging with some of the other 
member’s posts. At first, the moniker was used as a lighthearted joke, although it would eventually become synonymous with her persona.
“[The nickname] was a joke back in early 2018, ” Momma 
Gwen explained. “It was all good fun and the [administration was] playing along with it. Then people started to take it seriously and referred to me as ‘Momma’ and to this day they still refer to me as ‘Momma. ’”
The label led to some members of the Facebook page who 
would find themselves going through personal mental health crises to reach out to Momma Gwen for support.
“I think just because I was older and had a more responsible 
attitude I was able to calm some of them down when they got 
out of hand and the admin really liked that, ” Momma Gwen said. 
“The admin said that they didn’t want to make me an admin because I already had respect as the ‘Beyhive Momma. ’ A lot of [the group members] don’t have parents, so I was able to fill in for them in that way. ”
Being labeled as the matriarch of the group page, Momma 
Gwen began to gain a sort of following of her own. She explained how this new following provided her an opportunity to reach out and help those going through personal mental health struggles.
“It’s a little bit strange, but it’s quite enlightening to realize 
that there’s people out here who need a mother’s touch, ” Momma Gwen said. “I try to help as many individuals as possible because it’s not about me, it’s about them, it’s about everyone else. I think in a way the internet has opened up a whole new world for me for what’s out there for what I can do because I used to be a nurse before I got sick. I’m able to do what I used to, maybe not in a physical sense, but I can reach out over the net. ”
Momma Gwen explained that throughout her journey as the 
page’s “Momma, ” the original group’s administrators have been very supportive in making sure that she was not taking on more than she could handle.
“I enjoy the group very much, and I wouldn’t be where 
I am today without [the group] and without the help of the admins, ” Momma Gwen said. “Wolfgang Gebeterter [a group administrator] set a private chat up for me with the admins to keep me safe and to guide me when it went viral. ”
After a couple of months, it became increasingly clear to 
Momma Gwen that there may be a better way to offer mental health support to Beyoncé fans than simply via Facebook Messenger.
“I began to realize that this was becoming too much for me 
to do alone because I couldn’t answer every message due to time zones, ” Momma Gwen explained. “So I thought that I had to create my own group. ”
Momma Gwen created “BEYHIVE MOMMA ” during summer 
2019 to be a community of Beyoncé fans who could offer mental health support to one another.
“I had to establish the group and go on it quite a lot in the 
beginning, ” Momma Gwen said. “But now they all can help each other and they’re so grateful for this space because they all 
love Beyoncé as well. We call it the ‘sensitive hive’ because it’s 
something special and that’s what made me open the group. ”
Natashia, one of the page’s five administrators who requested 
her last name remain anonymous, explained that Momma Gwen reached out to her when the page was first created.
“Gwen approached me with the idea of setting up her own 
group, with it predominantly being about Beyoncé but also as 
somewhere for people to discuss issues that may affect their 
everyday life, ” Natashia said. “We were very clear from the get go, that this group is a safe haven and has a zero tolerance on negativity and bashing people. And actually what we’ve found is that the group just wants to uplift and help one another, it’s just been awe inspiring to watch. ”
Shauntoya Vaugn, another “BEYHIVE MOMMA ” page 
administrator, spoke about how Momma Gwen’s group has been 
much more than just a corner of the web dedicated to Beyoncé 
fans.
“‘BEYHIVE MOMMA ’ is a family, not just a group, ” Vaugn 
said. “Not only does our love for Beyoncé connect us, but we can be ourselves, completely and honestly. Gwen has created something special and harmonious. Sure we disagree with each other, but we can agree to disagree. We are one big dysfunctional family!”
Momma Gwen noted how running this group has encouraged 
her to be more open with her own struggles in order to reassure her fellow page members that the site is truly a safe space.
“Running the page from my home, it was hard work to begin 
to establish the group and make everyone feel comfortable, ” Momma Gwen said. “I use quite a bit of self-disclosure to show everyone that I’m not any different just because I lead the group. I can’t believe how far we’ve come in six months, and I’m just so 
delighted that it worked out. It feels like an achievement with all 
of these lovely people from all over the world. It’s fantastic, it’s global, it’s wonderful. ”
Recently, Momma Gwen was diagnosed with Parkinson’s 
Disease, which has affected her ability to move and work. However, she has been able to find hope and solidarity within the community that she had originally created to help others.
“The internet is such a lifeline to me, ” Momma Gwen 
explained. “I want to be treated the way that I treat everyone else with respect. This is why the group means so much to me because everyone is different — we all have different issues and they’ve all stood by me with my Parkinson’s disease. They are my rock. Just as much as I’m there for them they are there for me. ”
Bear Balentine, a member of ‘BEYHIVE MOMMA, ’ spoke 
about how Momma Gwen’s story inspired her to be more proactive with being open to having conversations on the topic of mental health.
“When Gwen bravely shared with the group of her own 
personal medical struggles, I knew that I was going to take a chance as well and be ‘all in’ with this group, ” Balentine said. “Every single person I have interacted with through the group has greeted me with open arms and a non-judgmental ear. 
 A  Dive  into  One  of  the  Internet's   Most  
Wholesome  Pages  and  the Beautiful  
Mind  Behind  It
By Jacob  sutherland   News editor
See BEYHIVE,  page 7FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
Balentine went on to discuss her personal journey with making 
lasting connections with fellow group members on the page.
“It wasn’t long until I would start reaching out to members 
privately when they would openly share of their own struggles, 
checking in and utilizing my own mental health training to ensure that they knew of the resources available to them and to determine that they would not cause harm to themselves or others, ” Balentine said. “To this day I consider these folks like family, after what we have emotionally gone through together, I know Bey would be proud because like her, this family is our sanctuary. ”
Balentine went on to say that the difference between this 
fanpage and others is the intent to follow through on the positive messages Beyoncé puts out into the world.
“I truly believe that this group is more aligned with Beyoncé’s 
own moral compass, than any other page, ” Balentine said. “Beyoncé has led by example how hard work, perseverance and acceptance can do to change one’s life. She is able to rise above and create in an undiscovered world, leaving breadcrumbs for us to find our own way too, reminding us that anything worthy is going to take respect and time. It isn’t just a coincidence that we all adore her, it is truly meant to be, we were meant to find each other and we were meant to be a family. ”
Momma Gwen explained that while there is no explicit policy 
for member conduct, there is a strict adherence to maintaining a safe space for all.
“I would say in the past 6 months we’ve only had to remove 
two people for misconduct, ” Momma Gwen said. “It was two comments that were made and that was it. We don’t give second chances because we want to keep our people safe. We’re quite proud that we’ve only had to do that twice. ”
Joanne Dowling, another page administrator for “BEYHIVE 
MOMMA, ” reiterated the groups’ desire to maintain the page as a safe space for all.
“The Beyhive Momma group is the best fan based group out 
there in my opinion, ” Dowling said. “We don’t allow trolls or negativity it’s all about helping others and creating a safe and friendly environment. “
It was in the spirit of honoring all of the accomplishments the 
group’s members had made that inspired Momma Gwen and the page administrators to create an awards show. Modeled after the Beyhive Awards of the original page, the Beyhive Momma Awards were unique in that they highlighted the personal accomplishments of the group’s approximately 400 participants rather than any professional achievements.“Our awards were so unique in the sense that [the performers] 
were not professional when they were performing, ” Momma Gwen said. “They were all individuals who had gone through some sort of crisis in their life and had overcome anxieties and gotten self confidence and had put themselves out there and they performed and were wonderful. ”
The Beyhive Momma Awards consisted of five awards for 
Best Female, Best Male, the Blue Ivy Carter Rising Star Award, the Rumi and Sir New Comer Award, and the Beyhive Momma Award for Outstanding Achievement. The awards were presented by the page’s administrators, with Momma Gwen herself hosting the show. In between the award presentations, six singing and dance performances were given by the group’s members. Due to the group members being in different time zones, all of the videos for announcements and performances were pre recorded, and then uploaded at a specified time.
“I wanted to give them something back as well because I felt like 
they had achieved something tremendous in the past six months, ” Momma Gwen said. “It was so difficult for the admin in the group to decide who would be nominated and then we had to let the group decide who the winners were. But the whole thing was so very exciting and the group was so excited with it as well. The pleasure of it is just in my heart and it is amazing. ”
Momma Gwen noted that she and the other page administrators 
are planning on continuing the Beyhive Momma Awards next year 
in conjunction with other shows like the Oscars and the British 
Academy of Film and Television Arts Awards.
While it’s unclear as to whether or not Beyoncé herself knows 
about the group’s existence, it is clear that Queen Bey would most certainly be proud of the achievements the group has made over the past six months. The group truly embodies the kindness, self-love, and strength that Beyoncé speaks on through her artwork.
As for Momma Gwen, if she could meet Beyoncé, she only has 
one thing she would wish to do.
“We would just sit down around the dinner table with my 
grandkids and her kids and we would just all sit together and all have dinner and play with the kids and have family time, ” Momma Gwen said. “I’m a family girl and my kids have grown up and I have the grandbabies now and she has her three kids and it would just be lovely if we could all sit down and be a family for the day. ”
‘BEYHIVE MOMMA ’ is a private Facebook page that continues 
to serve as a safe space for its members to support one another through the good and the bad.
The Facebook page “Beyhive Momma “ was created to be a community of Beyonc é  fans who could offer mental health support to one another.
▶ BEYHIVE , from page 6
Jacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.orgART BY ANTHONY TRANART BY ANTHONY TRANA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
CONCERT   REVIEW
ERIC  NAMERIC  NAM
Location   House of Blues
Concert Date  Feb. 1, 2020CA-PHOTOS BY MCKENNA JOHNSONPHOTOS BY MCKENNA JOHNSON
Eric Nam brings fun, party, and a whole bunch of emotion to the House of Blues.
Korean-American singer-songwriter Eric Nam kicked off the first date of his 
“Before We Begin World Tour” at the San Diego House of Blues. Similar to Girls’ Generation’s Tiffany Y oung and f(x)’s Amber Liu, Nam is a veteran K-pop 
artist trying to establish himself in the Western pop industry. Notably, it’s important to understand Nam’s background as more than just a musician — being a radio star, podcaster, and South Korea’s go-to host for years has led Nam to be a pop culture icon in his own right both in South Korea and to his adoring international fans. But, coming back to the U.S. is the start of something new for Nam. Or, like the title of his recent album “Before We Begin” suggests, the beginning of starting something new.
Knowing all of this beforehand, it still surprised me to see fans not only lining the 
whole block but also around the corner, eagerly waiting for entry and to get a good spot in the pit. Fans walking along the line handed me a photostrip, cute fan-made merch item typical to find in a K-pop loving audience. I spoke to a group at the front of the line who had lined up since 6 a.m., holding up fansigns with cute phrases like “ERIC CUTIE” or “GAYS 4 ERIC. ” I was happy to see they rightfully snagged spots in front of the stage. 
Before the set, the DJ played a mix of pop-inflected R&B and Korean R&B, which 
perfectly fit the atmosphere as Nam’s sound is at the intersection of the two genre-wise. Everytime the playlist cut out, fans cheered Nam’s name in excitement, and it fueled me to leave my comfy spot in the balcony and scurry toward the stage as close as I could. The merch table was my companion for the night, and I had a perfectly angled view of both the stage and audience.
Nam began his set with “Come Through” and “Runaway, ” two of his most popular 
songs off “Before We Begin. ” With their free-spirited nature, both songs are the epitome of danceable and had the crowd grooving along. But it amazed me to see Nam engage in choreography with his four male dancers. Maybe I thought that in order for Nam to “make it” in the West, he would have to shed some of his K-pop identity, but I was sorely mistaken, and really, really glad that I was proven wrong.
Afterwards, Nam admitted it himself that he’s not the best dancer, but his 
choreography was simple, clean, and full of personality. What was there not to like?
“This is Not a Love Song, ” the first song of the night sung primarily in Korean, 
is a moderately upbeat acoustic track hiding rather sad lyrics about losing a lover. This could’ve been a moment for the crowd to simp along, but Nam did the opposite. Through sweet fan interactions and an endearing stage presence, Nam turned the song on its head into a very cute, very flirty, totally maybe is a love song. And this is exactly where Nam shined — in his ability to create a genuine relationship with his fans.
Throughout the show, Nam gave life updates, or what he referred to as “lectures” to 
the audience. From mindless chatter about his failed attempt to get Jollibee before the show to relaying the story of his Korean mother becoming “more American” to relate to Nam’s white sister-in-law, it felt like listening to an Eric Nam vlog or podcast in real time, both of which are things he does regularly. His transparency is so likeable and charming, it’s easy to see how this led to his fan base of different ages and nationalities, which was fully exemplified by the crowd. 
But of course, after engaging with the audience for a bit, Nam began the “sexy” 
portion of his setlist with a medley of tracks fit for a bouncy club. “Potion, ” a boozy declaration to youth and “Don’t Call Me!, ” a punchy, sassy anthem both featured flashing lights, sick drops, and a sexy, slinky electronic chorus. Switching up from his pop ballads, these upbeat bops were the high-speed fun that the crowd needed, and Nam certainly delivered. Even with hopping to the pulsating beat and performing alongside his dancers, Nam’s vocals never faltered for a single second.
Nam’s vocal skill was best demonstrated in “Let This Love Die Young, ” which marked 
a stark maturity in his work compared to his previous bubbly pop sound. From starting as a track about feeling burnout from his rigorous schedule as a K-pop artist, Nam turned it into something more relatable: feeling burned out from a relationship.
Backed by a slow, thumping beat, Nam exhibited beautifully emotive and controlled 
runs. Crowd engagement was at its peak, and there’s something about a wildly diverse crowd harmonizing with Nam as he wistfully sang, “Please don’t let this love die young, ” that just pulled at your heartstrings. While the audience took out their phone flashlights to sway along, Nam was bathed in white light, focusing on two things only: the music and his fans.
Earlier in the show during one of his asides, Nam mentioned needing more of 
“cultures coming together. ” As an American coming into the Korean music industry, and a Korean-American coming into the Western music industry, Nam has always been different. He’s part of a larger movement trying to bring Asian-American representation in Western music to its forefront. He continues to transcend different demographics, and with his experience in nearly every aspect of the entertainment industry, Nam continues to transcend demographics and aims to do what he does best without labels caging him in: creating great, relatable music.
— Jahfreen  alam
A&E Editor
Nam smiles at a fan with a “GAYS 4 ERIC” sign. Joyful fans at the barricade watch Nam’s performance.A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Despite artists claiming that they consider their fans 
to be friends, realistically, we know this not to be true. There is a constant barrier that separates the 
two groups. This can come in the form of stage fences that separate the crowd from the performer, or can be symbolic, if the artist is no longer relatable to their listeners. No matter how this barrier exists, this restraint disconnects the musician from their listeners to some degree. 
This wasn’t the case with Zack Villere. His show felt like a 
jam out session between a laid-back musician and his friends in the basement of his parents house while an unsupervised younger sibling chugged some beers in the corner. This is both amazing and not so great. On one hand, it was extremely refreshing to be so connected to the performer, as there was absolutely nothing separating the stage from the fans. Villere was close enough to the audience to be a part of it, and this lack of physical separation erased the “performer-listener” roles entirely from the concert. His set was more focused on everybody simply having a good time and vibing out to the music, rather than worrying about nuances in the performance itself. The modest amount of audience members in the room also contributed to the intimate atmosphere.Villere continuously engaged in lighthearted jokes and conversation with his fans who didn’t feel the need to shout for his attention. Instead of the aggressive behavior exhibited at many concerts where fans fight to get noticed, the listeners in the room remained fairly respectful to Villere and to each other; we all gathered in a tight-knit circle around the stage to support a relatively underground artist whom we all believed in. 
However, despite the cozy familiarity of the show and 
the praise for the intimacy of the performance, the actual set did not go perfectly. Some songs were restarted from the beginning due to mistakes made in the middle of the performance. This in itself isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but the amount of times that songs had to be performed again made it become an issue. One of the songs off of his new album was stopped and repeated five times before Zack and Alex Szotak, his guitar bassist, finally got it right. The show felt unprepared, and the level of professionalism present within this show fell a few notches lower than what would have been expected from a larger artist. 
Despite this criticism, I still believe Zack Villere 
performed well given the circumstances: This was the first show on the first stop of his first tour, and performance is 
something that an artist learns from experience. There are 
so many unseen factors that go into performing, such as sound technology, the obvious nerves from playing in front of a collective group of strangers, and simply unaccounted for issues with anything else. Underground artists like him pave the way for other indie artists to break the standard for what music is, and reshape music for what it could be. It is 
precisely musicians like Villere who break the long-rooted 
idea that music has to be manufactured with financial restraints in order to be successful. His unpolished yet 
catchy sounds are what make him stand out in the midst of 
overproduced songs from major record labels. His appeal is in his reliability and accessibility. His tracks sound more like they were created in Garageband in his bedroom rather than in a professional multi-million dollar studio. The answer 
to why his simple melodies and lo-fi beats need no further 
introduction is simple. His talent speaks for himself. 
His recognition is the start to greater inclusivity and more 
diverse sounds within the world of music. That night in the House of Blues, as we simultaneously sang along to the hits we knew, and quietly listened to those off of his unreleased album “Cardboard City” that we were not yet acquainted with, we were all witness to what I know to be the start of Villere’s promising career. 
— Erin  Chun
Senior Staff Writer
CONCERT   REVIEW
ZACK  VILLEREZACK  VILLERE
Location   Voodoo Room
Concert Date  Feb. 7, 2020CB-PHOTOS BY ERIN CHUNPHOTOS BY ERIN CHUN
Rising songwriter, and producer Zack Villere premiered his album in San Diego for his first tour. 
A powerfully rich portrayal of women and art, “Portrait of a Lady on Fire” is a truly remarkable masterpiece.
It is rare to experience a film that achieves a perfect 
balance between beauty, emotion, and intellect, however, historical drama “Portrait of a Lady on Fire” effortly 
accomplishes this feat. Director Céline Sciamma deftly suffuses her characters with real depth, encouraging her audience not only to watch, but to understand. What begins as a simple premise expands into something profoundly thought-provoking, and yet the film never feels stuffy or heavy-handed. Awarded both the award for best screenplay and the “Queer Palm” at the Cannes Film Festival of 2019, “Portrait of a Lady on Fire” is a beautiful and stirring representation of the lives of women.
“Portrait of a Lady on Fire” takes place on an island in 
Brittany. The film opens at the end of the 18th century, as skilled artist Marianne (Noémie Merlant) remembers a deeply personal memory after seeing one of her paintings. 
Y ears ago, Marianne was hired by a countess to paint a 
portrait of her soon-to-be-married daughter, Héloïse (Adèle Haenel). However, Héloïse refuses to pose for a portrait since she does not want to marry a stranger, forcing Marianne to paint her without her knowledge or consent. Disguised as a companion for her morning strolls, Marianne comes to befriend and understand Héloïse, while attempting to capture her likeness without her knowledge. When the portrait is complete, Marianne insists on revealing the painting to Héloïse first, who is disappointed in the lack of resemblance between the painting and herself. Unsatisfied, Marianne destroys the painting before Héloïse’s mother can see it, and begins again.
When Marianne starts the next portrait, Héloïse consents to pose for her. During this time, Héloïse’s mother leaves for Italy, leaving the two women alone with Sophie, the household maid. Now liberated, the women are free to talk, read, draw, and play cards with one another, and they develop a strong bond. The two care for Sophie as she experiences a painful ordeal and learn about one another as Marianne paints Héloïse’s portrait. As they spend more and more time with each other, they become very close and eventually fall deeply in love.
The most striking undercurrent of “Portrait of a Lady on 
Fire” is the connection between women and art. In this film, women, like art, are objectified and commodified. Even in a film nearly devoid of men, Marianne and Héloïse remain subject to the demands of a patriarchal, heteronormative world that discourages the natural expressions of women. The film’s camera angles portray women and their surroundings 
as tableus, making them art subjects. However, the bond 
between Marianne and Héloïse is strengthened through art forms such as painting, music, embroidery, and reading, rendering them as artists. As such, the film constantly reaffirms the importance of consent in both the creation of art and the understanding of women. At the turn of the film, Marianne is frustrated that Héloïse dislikes her first portrait. According to Marianne, the portrait will represent Héloïse so long as Marianne follows the strict rules of painting. But Héloïse argues that in order to accurately and fully portray her, Marianne must first know her as a person.
The film seeks to confront the objectification of women’s 
bodies in an effort to challenge the confines of classical high art. Instead of portraying a woman’s body as the site of eroticism and male ownership, it becomes the site of sapphic tenderness and womanhood. The women in this film have body hair and menstruate. Scenes of nudity are deliberately made mundane and casual to emphasize the lack of inherent sexuality of naked women. Marianne and Héloïse are not exposed for the sake of the audience, but rather their own convenience, comfort, and desire. Refreshingly, they enter a sanctuary of female jurisdiction that permits them to exceed external and societal boundaries that prevent them from physical activity and enjoyment. As a result, the audience is privileged to see the lives of the women change, which in turn, transforms Marianne’s work. In the second half of the movie, Marianne’s most beautiful works of art are those that receive willing and active consent from Héloïse, as the women struggle to create beauty in an impossibly painful situation.
“Portrait of a Lady on Fire” is a memorable and moving 
portrayal of women, art, and sapphic love that is as visually appealing as it is intellectually engaging. With gorgeous and refined cinematography and a nuanced, symbolic use of lighting, it is one of the most lovely films as of late. From this beauty emerges an important expression of women’s frustration as they struggle for agency in a world that offers none.
—  Laura  Hatanaka
Senior Staff Writer
FILM   REVIEW
POrtrait  of  a  lady  on  firePOrtrait  of  a  lady  on  firePHOTO COURTESY OF METRO WEEKLYPHOTO COURTESY OF METRO WEEKLY
Director   Céline Sciamma
Starring  Noémie Merlant, Adèle Haenel, Luàna Bajrami
Release Date  Dec. 16, 2019
Rating  RCA+10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 8 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26
LIBRARY WALK • 1 1am–3pm
FREE CHURROS
from Churros El TigreFREE GIVEAWAYS
Stress balls, gum, and more...Join Associated Students on Library 
Walk to voice your opinions and 
interact with your student advocates! 
as.ucsd.edu
Spring Break Road Trips in California
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
As we trudge on through Winter Quarter, a small light shines at the end of the tunnel: 
the promise of spring break. With only a week to rest between Winter and Spring Quarter, 
most students choose to go home and binge as much Netflix as they possibly can, which I 
wholeheartedly support by the way, but if you’re in the adventuring mood, why not choose to hit the road and visit someplace new? 
California is usually bottled down to beaches and palm trees, but our state has so much 
more than our stereotype lets off. This list of locations can serve as stand-alone destinations, but if you want to go to bigger cities like Los Angeles or San Francisco, add some of these 
places in as stops to truly discover all the Golden State has to offer.  
San Luis Obispo
Affectionately referred to as “SLO, ” this laid-back town is roughly located halfway 
between NorCal and SoCal. As a kid, my family ventured here to visit the Mission, which 
has free admission, a beautiful garden, and is worth your time even if you’re not religious. While you’re there, stick a piece of gum onto Bubble Gum Alley, have a drink in one of the Paso Robles wineries, or watch the sunset from Pismo Beach. Book your stay at the world 
renowned Madonna Inn, known for its over-the-top decor and themed rooms, or just stop 
in for a bite at the Copper Cafe. 
As an additional adventure, about 40 miles from the city is Hearst Castle, which was 
owned by wealthy media mogul William Hearst. It boasts over 160 extravagant rooms, lavish gardens, the remains of a private zoo, and an airstrip on a 123-acre property and was known as a celebrity getaway in the 1920s. 
Monterey & Carmel
Most people probably know Monterey for it’s aquarium, which boasts over 35,000 
different creatures in 34 different galleries. I’ve been here multiple times and my favorite exhibit has always been Jellies, which houses thousands of colorful and graceful jellyfish. The aquarium is located on Cannery Row, a historic district that was once home to sardine 
canneries and the iconic setting for John Steinbeck’s novel, “Cannery Row” . Now, the area 
is home to many restaurants, wine tasting rooms, shops, hotels, and water activities. Y ou’ll definitely want to grab a bite of seafood while you’re here! 
After exploring Monterey, take the scenic 17-Mile drive through Pebble Beach to enjoy 
some of the best coastal views California has to offer, and feel free to stop along the way. The route will take you to nearby Carmel-by-the-Sea, which is a beautiful town filled with 
picturesque cottages and old-school charm. The city center is small and easily walkable, but 
boasts no shortage of good finds — pick up a treat at a bakery or sweets shop, peruse the antique jewelry stores, or pop into one of the many art galleries. 
Solvang
About an hour past Santa Barbara is Solvang, a historic Danish village in the Santa 
Ynez Valley. Filled with windmills and half-timbered buildings, it’ll feel like you’ve been 
transported to Denmark once you step foot into this town. Visit the replica of Denmark’s 
Little Mermaid statue, stop into Solvang Restaurant for some aebleskivers which are fluffy Danish pancakes, and browse hundreds of unique shops, including a clog store. Make sure 
to pick up some Danish pastries for the road before you leave! Napa Valley
Gather up the girls, or the guys, and head up to California’s wine capital for a vino-filled 
getaway. There are over 400 wineries to choose from in Napa Valley alone, so make sure you 
do your research and schedule winery appointments in advance! Even if you’re not a wine person, plenty of the wineries have beautiful architecture and vineyard tours where you can 
learn about the history of wine making. Napa Valley has also become a foodie destination for 
its numerous Michelin star-rated restaurants and other eateries. 
Since we’re on a student budget here, try to find wineries that have tastings between $15 
and $25, or $30 if you really want to splurge, and stop at Oxbow Public Market or a grocery to pick up a baguette, cheese, and protein for lunch. Y ou don’t need to spend hundreds of dollars to have a good time! 
Yo s em ite
For a taste of nature, visit a national park that’s only about a seven hour drive from 
our campus. With its giant granite cliffs and tall sequoia groves, Y osemite truly looks 
otherworldly, and visiting the park has always been a reflective and refreshing experience for 
me. Y ou’ll probably spend most of your time in Y osemite Valley, which serves as the starting point for many hikes, like the Mist Trail or Cook’s Meadow Loop, and has a visitor center 
where you can learn more about the park’s history (shoutout to John Muir) and pick up some 
souvenirs. Tunnel View is one of the most beautiful viewpoints in the whole park because you can get El Capitan, Bridalveil Falls, and Half Dome in one photo. Taft Point and Glacier 
Point are also two popular lookouts. 
If you’ d like to camp in the park, the spots go quickly, so make your reservation at least 
six months in advance. Also, be prepared for traffic! Many of the roads inside Y osemite are 
only one lane in each direction — it once took my family and I two hours to just get out of 
the park.
PHOTO BY ANNIKA OLIVESPHOTO BY ANNIKA OLIVESLIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
A Guide to Using Essential Oils
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
In the past few years, the topic of using essential 
oils has gained a lot of popularity in the media. With 
advertisements offering a variety of benefits such as better sleep, less stress, and overall wellness, it’s hard to know not only which one to use, but also to know why we even need to use them in the first place! For those who are new to using them, essential oils are the essence of different plants that are used as a complementary 
and alternative medicine. At first, I too was a skeptic. 
However, personally I’ve grown to enjoy using them for some aromatherapy and other things. So, if you’re at all interested in trying out some essential oils, I’ve got some different scents lined up for you along with their most common uses:
Lavender
This is probably one of the most common essential 
oils used because of its best known benefit: reducing stress and anxiety levels. In addition to that, lavender is 
used to soothe skin irritations and is often used before 
bed for sleep. The calming nature of the lavender essence can help you relax and feel ready for a good night’s sleep. I like to use a lavender essence pillow spray every once 
in a while before going to bed and I find it to be helpful! 
Lemon
Lemon, along with other citrus oils, is best known for 
its energizing properties with the nickname of “Liquid 
Sunshine. ” Lemon can be used as a mood and energy booster in addition to being cleansing for all aspects of the body. Some people even use it for a boost in metabolism as well. I love lemon oils because of their light and airy feeling that can definitely help improve my mood. 
Eucalyptus
Eucalyptus oils are often used for its cleansing scent 
that promotes relaxation and soothing anxieties. It also 
has health benefits such as being an anti-inflammatory 
on skin. Eucalyptus can be used alone, but is also very commonly combined with a variety of other oils. Some popular complimentary essences include tea tree oil and spearmint oil. Tea tree and spearmint work well with eucalyptus because they both contain emotionally soothing qualities. Tea tree oil can also help treat skin inflammations similar to eucalyptus oil. 
Ginger Root
Ginger root oil has many widely known benefits such 
as being a comfort to sadness and anxieties, soothing redness in skin, and promoting a healthy digestive system. When it comes to using ginger root for its support for the digestive system, drinking ginger root tea is also a great option. If you are someone who tends to get 
stomach aches from stress or anxieties, ginger root might 
be a helpful option for you!
Rose
Many of us have probably seen the trend of using rose water sprays, but the benefits of rose oil are no joke. Rose oil can help ease a long list of things such as menstrual cramps, stress and anxiety levels, depressive symptoms, and can even be used as an antifungal. Not only does rose oil smell amazing, but keeping it around with you might really help increase those dopamine levels!
Orange
Similarly to lemon oil, orange oil has energizing and 
mood boosting effects because of its bright, citrusy scent. However, it can also simultaneously promote a calming 
effect that helps reduce heart rate. Orange oil can help 
with complexion of skin and acne. Additionally, when orange oil is applied by massaging it into the skin, it is known to help increase blood flow, which in turn can help with headaches and menstrual cramps.
PHOTO COURTESY OF CHRISTIN HUMEPHOTO COURTESY OF CHRISTIN HUME12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  T U E S D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  1 8 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
How to Kickstart Your Fitness Journey
by Tori Anderson Contributing Writer
If you’re just starting to exercise, the gym can be 
intimidating because you are afraid of people judging you 
or you really don’t know where to start. I’m here to help you get motivated and feel confident while working out! 
I felt like this when I started going to the gym by 
myself because I didn’t want people to look at me or judge the weight I was lifting. However, I got over my self-consciousness when I realized that no one is paying 
attention. People at the gym are there for two things: to 
work out and get that blood pumping, and to escape from whatever is going on and relieve some stress. It may seem like people are looking at you but the majority of the time they are zoned out, so do not worry! 
In order to gain motivation, you just have to do it. 
You have to get up and go because once your blood is pumping, you feel better and you do not regret it. I try to go as soon as possible to the gym before I can make excuses because by the time I’m done debating on whether or not to go, I could have been half-way done 
or fully done with my workout. However, if I find those 
excuses are getting to me, what I also do to gain some motivation is look at people’s progress pictures and see the physical and mental growth they made; it is truly so 
motivational in that alone. If I still do not feel motivated 
to go, I look up quotes or I write down the reasons why I do not want to go and then I write the reasons why I should go. Ninety percent of the time, the benefits always outweigh the excuses. Do not get me wrong, if your body needs a rest day, give it a rest day. But we are talking about getting started in the gym, do not wait to start next week or on a certain day. If you have the time to go that day, just go!
Alright, now that you know how to motivate yourself 
before the gym or your workout, it is time to discuss how to feel confident while working out. I highly recommend starting simple and progressing towards the gym. Start with going on a walk for 30 minutes or do a quick abdominal or circuit routine in your dorm or apartment. 
They should not take longer than 15 minutes! Having 
the gym as an end goal builds confidence while getting a workout in, which will be greatly beneficial to you and your body instead of jumping straight into it. 
Once you have built the motivation and confidence to get to the gym, it is important to write down or mentally note what target areas you want to work out and what primary exercises you want to do. This will help eliminate unnecessary time in the gym and makes you more focused, where you tend to forget that others are there. Also, if you are still too timid to lift weights, you can start off with cardio or do resistance band exercises. They give you a great burn and ease you into lifting weights because they are usually grouped into different resistance levels that allow you to experience the tension of lifting without the weights. This helps build those muscles and help sculpt your body. With each of these steps, your confidence should be building and if you haven’t already, it is time to lift those weights! Start off a reasonable weight that’s enough to challenge you! Lighter weight and more repetitions will help you get used to each exercise and help perfect your form. 
Okay, it is time to take this advice and put it into use! 
Start off small and be active in some way. We are all there to better ourselves. Do not be afraid or embarrassed if you have questions or need help, we’ve all been there!
PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHNATHAN BORBAPHOTO COURTESY OF JOHNATHAN BORBACALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
DEIRDRE BAIRTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20
THE LOFT • 8PM
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org11am
COMMUNICATING LOVE | DOUBLE 
STAMP - BEAR ROOM, PC WEST 
LEVEL 2
How do you tell people in your life that you love 
and appreciate them? Learn about the power of appreciating others. Using Gary Chapman's Five 
Love Languages, participants will learn about the 
different styles for giving and receiving love, learn 
about cultural differences in expressing love and appreciation, identify their own primary love 
language, and gain insight into the love 
languages of parents, friends and partners. After 
taking this workshop you will be better able to show important people in your life that you care in 
a way that they will understand. Presented by 
Tiffany OMeara, Manager of Tritons Flourish 
Initiative and CAPS Counseling Psychologist
12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal drop-in group is designed to talk 
about topics relevant to Asian American students at UCSD in a supportive and problem-solving 
atmosphere. Issues such as career and academic 
success, family pressures, cultural identity, and 
relationships are common topics. Contact: Dr. Diana Quach, Ph.D. 858-5345-7710 or 
Diquach@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural 
Center
12pm
STUDENT LUNCHEON WITH VCSA - 
FREE LUNCH! - RED SHOE ROOM
Colleagues, You are invited to quarterly luncheon 
with VCSA Dr. Alysson Satterlund on 2/18! Join us in this informal setting to learn more about topics identified as important issues to our students. This upcoming luncheon on 2/18 will focus on the transition to Division 1. Please see the attached flyer for more information. Space is limited! To reserve your spot, please RSVP to Kirby Knipp (kknipp@ucsd.edu). Contact: kknipp@ucsd.edu 8588220505
,3pm
BRAZILIAN CARNAVAL - MUIR 
QUAD
Come and celebrate the famous Brazilian 
Carnaval at Muir! With some traditional cuisine, be ready to have your mouth watered from chicken coxinha, cheese balls, and kibbeh! Refresh yourself with some free Yerba Matte and Acai. For dessert? We wouldn't be complete without some delicious brigadeiros! A Samba Performance will also take place for you to learn or practice your samba moves! Contact: muiroutreach@ucsd.edu
3pm
CAPS MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY 
LIVING - STUDENT HEALTH 
SERVICES, MURRAY'S PLACE
If you have been curious about mindfulness, 
this workshop is a perfect way to explore it. Mindfulness can help you reduce stress, anxiety, and depressive mood. You will engage in various Mindfulness exercises, so you incorporate them into your life. All students are welcome to attend this workshop, no matter your level of experience with mindfulness. Contact: ssweetwood@ucsd.edu 858-822-0134
8pm
DEIRDRE BAIR - THE LOFT
National Book Awardwinning biographer Deirdre Bair explores her 15 remarkable years in Paris with Samuel Beckett and Simone de Beauvoir, painting intimate new portraits of two literary giants and revealing secrets of the biographical art in her new book, Parisian Lives. In 1971 Bair was a journalist and recently minted PhD who managed to secure access to Nobel Prizewinning author Samuel Beckett. The next seven years of intimate conversations, intercontinental research, and peculiar cat-and-mouse games resulted in Samuel Beckett: A Biography and propelled Bair to her next subject: Simone de Beauvoir. TUE2.18
THU2.20MON2.17
2pm
SIXTH CARES - FOODWORX LOT
Join us in giving back to the San Diego 
Community and get the opportunity to PIE AN RA! Ah yes, revenge is sweet. Contact: aaa028@ucsd.edu 9516758824SUN2.167am
JOSHUA TREE BACKPACKING TRIP - 
JOSHUA TREE PARK
Joshua Tree is a hiker's dream and offers a 
perfect setting for backpacking in the high desert. Amazing rock formations, plants, and wildlife make traveling here like walking on a different planet. Come see the famous Joshua Tree (the inspiration for The Lorax by Dr. Seuss) and enjoy some of the most majestic scenery in Southern California! This is a beginning backpacking trip and we will cover all that you need to know to enjoy backpacking. **Sign up at https://rec.ucsd.edu/Program/GetProgramDetails?courseId=332ea35d-704c-4c52-b797-f3be156fa60e&semesterId=e0e8c3f2-ec43-436e-be5c-ab6a311e8bf6 SAT2.22WED2.19
12pm
PARTNERSHIP SCHOOLS 
PROGRAM-INFO SESSION - TMC ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, ROOM 132
The TMC/CREATE Partnership School Program is 
seeking students to volunteer at the two UCSD partnership school sites this spring quarter: The Preuss School UCSD (http://preuss.ucsd.edu/) and Gompers Preparatory Academy (http://gompersprep.org/). Program participants support students in grades 6-12 at high-need charter schools, where educators are utilizing innovative and effective methods of shaping positive outcomes for low-income, first-generation college-bound youth. Contact: vmorales@ucsd.edu 9515183151
12pm
LGBTQIA+ HEALTH DAY - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTERLEVEL OF 
PRICE CENTER WEST
Come learn how to cultivate radical self-care in 
the LGBTQIA+ community. This event will include campus resources, free HIV testing, a wellness workshop, DIY skincare and more! Contact: bhamlet@health.ucsd.edu 8588220455
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS - THE ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to incorporate state of the art technology for stress management! You'll learn strategies such as progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress as well as learn about some cool technology. We'll have free giveaways each week AND you can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The Zone calendar for info on this and other free wellness programs! 10pm
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND – THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are 
provided! 
12pm
BAJA ON HORSEBACK - LA BELLOTA 
RANCH
Put yourself back in the days of the Old West 
where the cattle roamed free and there were no 
fences. We will head southeast of Tecate, to the 
gated and secured guest ranch in the middle of 
Guadalupe Valley Grape Country, where you can 
try your hand as a vaquero (cowboy). After 
instruction in horseback riding, we will hit the trails. We will be Western style riding through 
shady oak groves, hidden water pools, quiet 
secluded valleys and vast mountain ranges 
throughout the 2800 acre ranch. **Prices (Earlybird by Jan 20th / Regular) Student: 
$335/365 Member: $335/365 Non-Member: 
$375/400 **Pre-trip Meeting - 6pm Wed 2/12 @ 
Outback Rental Shop Contact: mcc030@ucsd.edu
FRI2.21
12pm
HDH ECONAUTS WASTE AUDIT - 
MIDDLE EARTH BY CAFE V
Come join the EcoNauts from 12-1pm on Friday, 
February 21st at Middle Earth (by Cafe Ventanas) for our winter waste audit! Check out what's in your trash and learn how you can divert waste away from the landfill. This is a great chance to have fun and learn about simple ways to be more sustainable. Free snacks, games, and prizes! Contact: ucsdeconauts@gmail.com
6pm
EXPRESS YOURSELF: CELEBRATING 
BLACKNESS - MIDDLE OF MUIR
For Black History Month, M.O.M. and Black 
Resource Center will be hosting a night of music and dance as give Black students the opportunity to share songs that define Blackness for them. We can make the space our own as we celebrate each other and the iconic contributions Black artists have made in music and in our lives. The event is February 21st from 6pm-8pm. We are still currently collecting song suggestions so please fill out or google form. Contact: dleonard@ucsd.edu 9515416032Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
FEB 17 - FEB 23
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
US PRESIDENTSCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Moisten while cooking
6. A few10. Hearing-impaired
14. More frosty
15. Imitated
16. Frenzy17. Worn out19. China’s continent
20. Visualized
21. Director Woody ____
22. Solidifies23. Skin woe25. Small bay
26. Theater platform
29. Journalist ____ Sawyer
32. Bemoan34. Aggravate38. Bullring cry
39. Mass ____ (subways, e.g.)
41. Actor ____ Gibson
42. Produce44. Gloomy46. Document47. Tiny particles48. Rot51. Not working53. Raise54. Gleamed57. Sharp pain61. On top of62. Admission64. Plant stalk65. Yachting66. Punctuation mark67. Whetstone68. Army chow69. Map featureDOWN
1. Small pieces2. Tooth discomfort3. King’s title
4. Almost grown
5. Historic period
6. Costly fur7. October’s stone8. Simple
9. Eve’s garden
10. Police drama
11. Artist’s stand12. Spry13. Sumptuous meal
18. Actor ____ Aykroyd
24. In the middle
25. Monogram letter26. Walk heavily27. “A ____ of Two Cities”
28. Prayer response
29. Roadside eatery
30. Tax agency (abbr.)31. Dry33. Golf hazard35. Military supplies36. Athletic group37. House additions40. Noshed43. Typical example45. New spouse’s boy48. Splash49. Type of bean50. Many times51. Native Peruvians52. Poor grade54. Sting55. Firefighter’s need56. Individuals58. Intentions59. Alaskan city60. Small pest63. Physics, e.g. (abbr.)BIKES
Diamondback Viper Chrome BMX Style Bike 
– I am selling a Diamondback viper bmx style bike. I purchase bike several years ago for my son. he hardly used it, it sat out a bit. I 
cleaned it up a bit and stored it. Now I need 
the room to workout. it has a nice cushoned schwinn seat….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Women’s XC Mountain Bike - Women’s XC 
Mountain Bike - REI Novara Piedra - 13.5 in Extra Small - Barely Used! For sale is my 
spouse’s Novara Piedra mountain bicycle. 
She has actually put less than 100 mis on the bike, considering that we primarily did road riding. We are returning east and require to let it go! I….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Motorized Bike - Hello today I’m selling 
motor bike, these things get 150-180 mis per-gallon they are perfect if you just lost your license or if you aren’t old enough to drive, or maybe you just like to cruise along the beach and get a ton of complements 
these are totally legal, easy to work on and 
very safe. I can build any motor any color exactly what ….  ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
FULL-TIME JOBS
Certified Electrician - Service technician for electrical on residential and commercial properties. Remove and replace existing devices from ballasts to breakers and light -
ing to panel boards. Tenant improvements and home upgrades and remodels. Install new raceways from underground to over-head racks and raceways….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Bioinformatics SW Test Automation Engineer 
- Smedix, Inc. is looking for a software engi -
neer with test automation experience who shows initiative towards improving the 
quality of software solutions for our cli-
ents in the medical devices and life science tools industries. The successful candidate will demonstrate strong technical leader -
ship within a bioinformatics team working in San Diego. Your role will be to work with Bioinformatics SQA (software quality assur -
ance) engineers and members of the bioin -
formatic….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Data Analytics Engineer - Responsibilities 
for this position will focus on developing high-quality Python/SQL analysis modules based on complex requirements for 5G, Car2Cloud, RFFE, and Modem Systems data 
analytics use cases. Developing insightful 
dashboards using visual analytics platforms such as Tableau, Qlik….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS
2017 Toyota RAV4 LE - Certified. Black 2017 Toyota RAV4 LE FWD six Gear Automatic 2.5L four Cyl DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i Black w/Fabric Seat Trim. Clean 
CARFAX 1-Owner. Local San Diego Trade In. 
Recent Arrival! Odometer is 605 mis below market average! 23/30 City/Highway MILES-PER-GALLON Toyota Certified Pre-owned Vehicles Info: * Roadside Assistance * 16….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
2019 Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross ES - Black 
2019 Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross ES four wheel-drive CVT 1.5L I4 Turbocharged DOUBLE OVERHEAD CAMSHAFT 16 VOLT LEV3-ULEV70 152hp **Coming Soon** Another fantastic Internet Direct Priced vehicle from 
Toyota San Diego. The vehicle you have 
selected is currently undergoing our exclu -
sive used inspection and get ready process. To be the 1st person in line or to simply receive more info and pictures please call or contact us via the web sitetoday. Recent 
Arrival! 25/28 City/Highway MILES-PER-
GALLON Who we are….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2018 Toyota RAV4 XLE - OVERHEAD 
CAMSHAFT Dual VVT-i AWD, Black w/Fabric 
Seat Trim. Clean CARFAX 1-Owner. Local San 
Diego Trade In. Recent Arrival! Odometer is 2383 mis below market average! 22/28 City/Highway MILES-PER-GALLON Awards: * 2018 KBB.com 10 Best SUVs Under $25,000 * 2018 KBB.com Best Resale Value Awards * 2018 KBB.com 10 Most Awarded Brands 
Who we are: Winner of Toyota Presidents 
Award 2010-2015 for Outstanding Sale….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!5
26
7
2
943
5 48
93
5
4
23
91
62
6
1
8
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
In their 16th-straight win, 
the No. 4 UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team (24–1, 18–1 
CCAA) defeated the California 
State University, Los Angeles Golden Eagles 80–67 on Saturday, clinching at least a piece of their second-straight California Collegiate Athletic Association conference title. Despite trailing in the opening minutes of the game, the Tritons went on a 20–0 run and never looked back, even 
as the aggressive CSULAdefense 
made things chippy down the stretch.
As the last home contest of 
the regular season, Saturday’s match was also senior night, and redshirt senior guard Connor Peterson, senior forward Scott Everman, redshirt senior guard and forward Christian Oshita, 
and redshirt senior center Chris 
Hansen were honored before the match by teammates, friends, and family. A fter the tipo ff, 
though, a pair of early Golden Eagle three-pointers had CSULA up 10–4 four minutes in. But Everman responded with 2 straight tough paint layups to regain momentum; on the next possession, redshirt sophomore guard Tyrell Roberts stole the ball, broke down the court, and hit a quick three to give the Tritons the lead, 11–10. Soon a fter, with the Triton run 
at 14–0, CSULA junior guard Michael-Isaiah Ajiboye missed 
2 straight free throws, failing to 
stop the run and further fueling UCSD’s momentum. On the next possession, redshirt junior guard Mikey Howell drove down the baseline for an open layup; then, he stole the inbounds pass, backed out to the three-point arc, and found junior forward Marek Sullivan cutting down the 
lane for an easy layup, the 20th 
consecutive Triton point. The 
Tritons kept their foot on the gas for the remainder of the half, ending the period on a 13–3 run, capped o ff by an Oshita three on 
an assist from the high post by Roberts. UCSD ended the half up 42–23, having outshot CSULA 65.4 percent to 29.2 percent in 
the period, and with 16 bench 
points to the Golden Eagles’ none.
“I thought we took care of the 
ball offensively; if we don’t turn 
it over, we got guys that can put it in the basket, ” head coach Eric Olen said about the run. “ A fter 
the first couple possessions, we 
settled down and did a nice job of making some plays defensively, forcing turnovers, and getting some easy ones in transition. Big runs like that typically come o ff 
the defensive end, and I thought that was the case for them tonight. ”
The Golden Eagles came out 
of halftime playing an aggressive 
full-court press, disturbing the Tritons’ momentum — CSULA made two quick three-pointers to open the half, forcing Olen to call an early timeout to reorganize. Throughout the half, the press forced the Tritons into making rushed, long-range passes — but it also allowed them to find 
space with quick ball movement around a misaligned defense. But Roberts drained a pair of paint jumpers on consecutive possessions, and a fter a Golden 
Eagle triple, Sullivan found Oshita at the top of the arc for a three-pointer to go up 17. The 
Tritons would lead by double digits for the rest of the match, 
with a pair of threes from junior 
guard Gabe Hadley and one from Oshita maintaining the lead late. The Tritons dribbled out the final 
seconds of the clock to clinch the 80–67 win. 
“Our guys mostly did a good 
job. When they disrupt the flow 
of the game with a style like that, it’s always an adjustment — especially when it happens halfway through, as opposed to doing that the whole game. [ The 
Golden Eagles are] in a position where they don’t have a lot to lose, ” Olen said about how the team dealt with an aggressive defense. “It’s not something 
we’ve seen a whole lot of this year 
because our guards are hard to pressure that way, and we shoot pretty well behind it, but when you’re behind you can make gambles like that. ”
Oshita led the Tritons with 
19 points and 9 rebounds, with Roberts and Hadley both coming up with 14 points each. The 
match only featured one lead change — just 5:26 into the first 
period —a fter which the Tritons 
were dominant on both sides of the ball. The win clinches at least 
a share of UCSD’s second straight CCAA title — if both California State Polytechnic University Pomona and California State University, San Bernardino fail 
to win out, the Tritons will hold 
the title alone.
After the game, Olen praised 
the team’s seniors. “ Those four 
in particular really set the tone for us … To win a conference championship with two weeks left in the season is really di fficult, 
and I think it speaks to their consistency and performance. ” 
The night was a special one 
for the seniors on the squad, as they were presented with framed jerseys and joined their families on the court before and a fter the game in celebration of their contributions to the team. “It was a fun experience. It was great to 
have my whole family out here, 
it was a lot of fun, and I’m just happy we got the win, ” Oshita said. 
With the momentum of a 16-
game win streak at their backs, the Tritons will seek to enter the postseason on a high note, as they face four CCAA opponents on the road before they return 
to RIMAC Arena for the 
CCAA conference tournament, beginning on March 3. 
As for the team’s approach 
going into the final stretch, 
Oshita said, “Just one game at a time, not thinking too far ahead in the future. We have goals in mind, but we just want to take each one as it comes. ”
Tritons Clinch Piece of CCAA Title, Extend 
Streak to 16 with Senior Night Win
pra veen  nair   prnair@ucsd.edu16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 18, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
vs. Stanislaus State
@ UC Irvine@ Sonoma State@ CSU East Bay@ CSU East BayUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESSoftball
W Tennis
Baseball
W Basketball 
M Basketball1PM2PM2PM
5:30PM7:30PM2/212/192/212/192/19
The UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team celebrated their 
Senior Night by extending their 
ten-game winning streak against their California Collegiate 
Athletic Association rival the 
California State University, Los Angeles Golden Eagles, taking the visitors down 82–72 in a game that 
was much closer than the final box 
score on Saturday, Feb. 15.
Senior guards Stephanie Moore 
and Sydney Sharp were honored 
for their four years at UCSD before the game. The team’s coaching 
staff presented the two soon-to-be 
graduates and their families with framed jerseys as the crowd gave them a rousing ovation.
“It was surreal having my 
family here, ” Moore said a fter the 
game. “ They live pretty far away so 
it was definitely special [for them to be here]. ” 
But despite the early energy, 
CSULA got up to an early lead, 
closing out the first quarter up 
24–20. The Golden Eagles defense 
played tight man defense inside the arc, but played loose on the 
perimeter, allowing the Tritons to shoot from the three-point line. UCSD was not able to capitalize 
though, going 4–10 from outside 
the arc early on. On the other side, Golden Eagles’ o ffense played very 
aggressively, pushing the ball into the paint, rarely attempting threes.
In the second quarter, the 
Tritons started to turn the game around. The key to their 
comeback was the team’s leading 
scorer: sophomore guard Julia 
Macabuhay. Midway through the second quarter, Macabuhay 
scored the Tritons first points of 
the second quarter on a four-point 
play, hitting the three-pointer, 
taking a foul, and making the free 
throw. She followed that up with two more jumpers, taking UCSD into halft ime with a 39–34 lead.
By the second half, Macabuhay 
was unstoppable inside the key, driving up the left and right 
seams to attack the rim. The 
team’s top scorer was aided by 
fellow sophomore guards Sydney 
Brown and Brianna Claros. A fter 
reclaiming the lead in the second 
quarter, the Tritons would never 
give it up. A late-game layup by 
Macabuhay would bring UCSD’s lead up to 75–70, just enough to 
put the game away.
Macabuhay had a phenomenal 
night. She led the team with 
30 points, including two three-
pointers, to go along with 6 rebounds, and 2 steals in the win.
Despite it not technically being 
the team’s final home game of the 
season — the Tritons will host at least one playo ff game at RIMAC 
Arena — the significance of their Senior Day still played a role. “It was definitely diff erent in 
the locker room ... more emotional 
than normal, ” Sharp said. 
As their tenure playing for 
UCSD comes to a close, both 
seniors wanted to take advantage 
of their last games as Tritons. 
Moore was a bit nostalgic as she thought about the end of her 
playing career. “In the games, even 
leading up to this, we’re playing that last time at Chico, the last 
time at Humboldt ... It’s do or die. ” 
Sharp echoed that sentiment 
saying, “[We are not taking] any game for granted. We are coming 
down to the end of it so it’s about playing your hardest every game 
and giving it all you got. ”
Both seniors did seem to 
give their all in this game. Sharp had 7 points, 6 rebounds, and 4 assists. Moore, though she fouled 
out midway through the fourth 
quarter, also had a good night, 
especially on defense, racking up 7 points, 7 rebounds, 2 assists, and 2 steals.
When asked about their 
favorite memories at RIMAC, both responded with the same 
thing: half-court shots before 
games. While Moore has made a couple so far, Sharp admitted 
she has yet to make a half-court shot since her sophomore year. 
But, luckily for Sharp, the Tritons 
have a few more games left in the 
regular season and possibly more depending on how deep they get 
into the playo ffs.
Next week, the Tritons head 
off to Northern California to 
play California State University, East Bay on Thursday, Feb. 20 
and California State University, Monterey on Saturday, Feb. 22. 
UCSD holds onto the top rank in the conference and if they win out next week, they will put 
themselves into prime position to 
contend for the No. 1 seed in the CCAA tournament. However, the 
Tritons have to play their best ball 
coming down the stretch because No. 2 ranked California State 
University, San Marcos is only one loss behind them. Tipo ff against 
CSUEB and CSUMB are at 5:30 p.m. and 1:00 p.m., respectively.Women’s Basketball Pushes Streak 
to 10 Games on Senior Night 
wesley  xiao  wex057@ucsd.edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
The money in sports today is 
incredible. Professional athletes 
are some of the wealthiest people in the world and their cultural impacts are increasingly extending beyond the field of play. As salaries 
across all major sports continue to balloon, so too has the widespread celebrity of the athletes that make these games so popular even beyond their respective sports.
But even if all of the major 
sports are seemingly in the best economic periods of their histories, not all of these leagues have done an equal job of marketing their biggest stars. Nowhere is this more clear than in 
Major League Baseball. 
While National Basketball 
Association and National Football 
League stars are starring in movies, venturing out into music careers, 
and publicly taking on societal 
issues while hanging out with mega-celebrities from the other branches of the entertainment world, the best players from MLB are far less visible on social media and really on any form of media. 
Despite having similarly 
impressive physical abilities, athletes who choose baseball over other sports seemingly have a lower chance of broadly marketable fame, despite having arguably the best contracts in terms of guaranteed money and the longest season in the widest range of cities. 
While this problem certainly 
has been around for more than just a few seasons, MLB players are becoming more vocal, especially this o ffseason, during 
which baseball players have become more of a national center of attention thanks to the Houston Astros cheating scandal. 
Chief among the dissenters 
of the cheating scandal has been Trevor Bauer, a starting pitcher 
for the Cincinnati Reds who 
single-handedly has been the best in the bigs at promoting himself and extending his celebrity status into his own business. The MLB 
social media pages don’t work to promote the genius behind his actions, his skills, or the fiery 
passion for winning he possesses nearly as well as he does himself. And in my estimation, that really sets baseball apart from the other major sports, even at lower levels. 
While Bauer, an All-Star caliber 
talent with a quirky personality, is not well-marketed, basketball and football players at the high school and collegiate levels have larger follower bases on social media. Bauer, a vocal players’ rights advocate, argues that some of these disparities in marketing success are a direct result of MLB’s own rules. While basketball players and football players are able to market themselves through whacky cleats and working out 
with celebrities, some of that 
ability is lost in baseball. MLB limits players to only three colors of cleats, except during the Players Weekend when all bets are o ff in 
terms of on-field fashion.
If MLB wants to attract fans, 
Bauer also feels that it needs to be more liberal in its videos, which can easily be found online or on social media, to show the impressive exploits of the players. 
In basketball and football, even 
at the lower levels, up-close and personal camera angles have helped make people feel like they are more a part of the highlights, especially when they are absolutely inundated with videos all over social media by major accounts like Bleacher Report. 
The same sort of disparity 
exists in collegiate sports as well. Certain schools that have built a historically strong brand name receive a disproportionate amount of the coverage, and while some of that is deserving, I’ d argue that at least some schools can make a bigger push to help promote their athletics. 
At UC San Diego, students who 
live on campus get sports channels included in their Spectrum cable 
package, allowing them to watch 
San Diego State University Aztecs and professional San Diego sports without any additional cost. But the streams for many UCSD events not done through ESPN3 are not free for students, meaning 
that students who want a chance 
to watch their own school have a tougher time doing so. 
I think that if these sorts of 
streams are made free and if 
students are given even more 
content to sift through, there could be a larger sports presence on campus at UCSD, and that’s a lesson that MLB could serve to listen to as well. 
Triton 
Timeout
Not all sports are 
marketed equally, 
but they could be With Jack Dorfman, 
Sports Editor
Jack Dorfman  jdorfman200@ucsd,edu