Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mobilizing from Protests to Polling Places - UCSD Guardian
 June 15, 2020   Jack Dorfman 
Given the  Minneapolis City Council pledging to completely revamp its approach to  
policing, the massive peaceful protests and the cries for “Defunding the Police” in the  
weeks following the murder of George Floyd seem primed to create lasting change.
While these changes in perception are salient reminders of the power of protest, we are 
still a far cry from promoting justice through government policy. Those of us who seek 
active roles in imbuing justice into our communities must demand new laws, and not just 
at the federal level. 
City, county, and state-level voters will be the ones who ingrain the progress protestors 
have made, and will do so through the ballot box. Voting at these levels proves vitally 
important because these elected officials are so intimately connected with the budgets for 
programs that affect our everyday lives. 
To establish themselves as the demographic politicians need to cater to in the future, 
younger voters need to flex their electoral muscle in upcoming elections, and there may beTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mobilizing from Protests to Polling Places - UCSD Guardian
no better  place to ignite this change than California, a state  known to lead the way  for other 
liberal states in social justice and environmental policy.
Budgets for public safety and protection are determined on the city and county levels, and in  
California, a few of these budgets are well above $1 billion dollars. Local governments have  
finite resources, and colossal spending on policing means less money for mental health  
services, homelessness solutions, and the many other social programs cities and counties are  
tasked with running. 
In the City of Los Angeles alone,  the police department received $1.6 billion for their 2018-19  
budget  on top of the just  over $1 billion going to the LA County sheriff’s department. In the 
2018-2019 budget, Los Angeles County could only spare a meager $75 million  for programs 
combatting homelessness despite a rising homeless population.  As a result, Los Angeles 
police departments, like many nationwide, are tasked with cleaning  up homeless 
encampments and interacting with homeless people without requisite training.  
Despite their important role in determining the budgets for services we interact with every  
day, elections for city, county, and state officials often receive a miniscule amount of 
electoral  participation. In 2017, only 25 percent of eligible New York City residents voted in 
the mayoral election, and only 20 percent of potential Los Angeles voters participated in 
their City Council elections. Therefore, if college-age voters collectively vote and slightly 
increase turnout statewide, there could be the difference that firmly cements liberal policies 
across all levels of government. 
Young college-age voters make up a sizable chunk of the state, and their heavily liberal-
leaning makeup means that their impact could be greatly felt in lower-level elections. In 
California and nationally, this group is more racially diverse and liberal than any generation 
before it, according to Pew Research Center. According to the 2018 Census Bureau data, in 
California, voting-eligible 18-29 year olds actually outnumber the over-65 age group. 
However, the older group is at least 20 percent more likely to vote  than the youngest. 
In 2018, the citizen voting age population in California was over 25 million, and yet on Nov. 
6, 2018, an election with a gubernatorial race, only 50.45 percent of the CVAP exercised their 
right to vote. California ballot measures garner a similar tally of votes, even though they 
often represent weighty budgetary and policy decisions that affect millions, such as 
Propositions 1 and 2 in 2018 that focused on funding for veteran affordable housing and 
mental health programs. Accessed: 6/29/2020 Mobilizing from Protests to Polling Places - UCSD Guardian
These policies benefit those who face many obstacles that keep them from demonstrating  
their support at the polls. Registering to vote is easy enough for those of us privileged 
enough  to have drivers licenses, a permanent address, and an internet connection, but for 
the poor  and homeless, these processes can prove near impossible. Additionally, voting in 
lower-level elections with less media coverage means the information cost to become 
informed on the subtle differences between candidates, especially in primaries, means 
potential voters  who have more pressing issues may find themselves out of the loop. 
Additionally, while turnout in state-wide elections is ripe for change, city and county  
elections provide even more agency for young voters. Elections of this size are won and lost  
by a few thousand votes or less, which means rising turnout amongst young voters can create  
tangible results beyond increased awareness. 
For example, in a special election for a Los Angeles District 12 City Council seat in the 
summer of 2019, the Republican-leaning candidate won the seat over his Democratic-
leaning opponent by only 1,167 votes. In this election, neither candidate received 20,000 
votes despite nearly 170,000 registered voters, a common theme for City Council elections in 
Los Angeles. 
Importantly, choosing between two candidates lowers the information cost for many voters, 
which makes such low turnout numbers especially shocking. But for young voters to make an 
even stronger impact, primary elections should be targeted as well. 
In the 2013 primary elections in LA, only 20.79 percent of the more than 1.8 million 
registered voters made their preferences for mayor, inarguably the most visible city 
government official known, and City Council elections saw five of the seven races finish with 
less than 20,000 total votes cast. 
In these elections and thousands more like them every year across the country, the millions 
of increasingly liberal, educated, and diverse young voters could provide a decisive chunk of 
support for candidates who will, for example, transfer police funds to better fund social 
services. By voting at higher rates in both general and primary elections, young voters can 
not only decide who represents their communities, but also who even gets a chance to in the 
general election.
As we’ve already seen in Minneapolis, the moves of city councils, along with other local and 
state-level government actions, can translate the ephemeral movement into lasting policy. 
To reallocate funds from militarized police stations and sheriff’s offices to social services, weAccessed: 6/29/2020 Mobilizing from Protests to Polling Places - UCSD Guardian
must actively participate in city and community-level government elections.
Photo Courtesy of the City of Los AngelesAccessed: 6/29/2020 Senior Sendoff: Asiyah Syed - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Asiyah Syed  
Being part of the Guardian will always be a highlight of my college years. I’ve had some of 
the funniest conversations and (not-so-serious) arguments on the second floor of the old 
student  center. Getting to write about pretty much anything was also a big help in 
pushing myself to  think differently. I’m missing it already, and I know I’ll continue to 
miss it.
Thanks for the company, y’all.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Senior Sendoff: Alex Rickard - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020  Alex Rickard 
I think what I’ll miss most is the cart. It’s kind of funny that my favorite part of working at  
The UCSD Guardian isn’t the work itself but the chance to ditch the work briefly and take a  
joyride to Price Center with a couple of others desperately clinging to the bed of the cart.  
Small moments like these are what built up my time at The Guardian and I could fill ten 
pages talking about the tiny details and stories that have made me so grateful for my time 
here.
Honestly, however, I can’t begin to put into words everything The Guardian has given me. 
The three years I spent with the paper showed me what it means to care deeply and work 
for something and the people I spent that time with pushed me to always be the best 
person I could be.
More than anything else in my time at UC San Diego, The Guardian made me who I am 
today. I will always be grateful for both the relationships I built here and the memories that 
I’ll keep forever.Accessed: 6/29/2020 Senior Sendoff: Daisy Scott - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Daisy Scott  
I joined The UCSD Guardian my freshman year because I wanted to find a place to make  
some friends on campus. I was intimidated by the size of UC San Diego and figured that  
joining the newspaper was a surefire way to learn more about my new surroundings, 
write, and meet people I could connect with. Now, I can safely say that joining this paper 
was the best decision my eighteen-year-old self ever made. 
I’m grateful for the sense of community The UCSD Guardian has provided me these past 
four years. It’s no secret that UCSD is a STEM-focused campus. Due to this, I anticipated 
being a writing major would inherently place me in my own private, social sphere along 
with the rest of the humanities students. And to a certain extent, this was true for my first 
couple quarters of college — beyond my freshman dorm members, the only other people 
I hung out with were fellow classmates from my literature classes. 
Yet the longer I wrote with The UCSD Guardian, the more I realized our campus is full of 
writers and creatives, even if the university hasn’t labelled them as such. The range in 
majors, backgrounds, and talents among our staff and editors continues to amaze me. IAccessed: 6/29/2020 Senior Sendoff: Daisy Scott - UCSD Guardian
wouldn’t  have met half the friends I made in college if it weren’t for this paper. This truly is 
a group of  individuals who are brought together sheerly by their common interest in student  
journalism. 
So, before I log out of WordPress one last time, I want to thank and recognize my fellow  
graduating editors — Rani, Jacob, Geena, Lara, Alex, Annika, Anthony, Alexa, and Chloe. 
I’m so grateful for your dedication and to have known you. I can’t imagine how this past 
year would have worked without you, and wish you all the best as you figure out life post-
UCSD.
As for The UCSD Guardian 2019-2020 staff as a whole, I’m so proud of you. We managed to  
still put out 30 weeks worth of papers amidst a global pandemic, Zoom classes, and  
everything else 2020 threw at us. It has been an honor to work with each and every one of  
you. 
And for the staff members who will be continuing into the 2020-2021 academic year — you  
all don’t need me to tell you how challenging this upcoming year will be. But I know that  
there’s no better team to handle it. Jahfreen and Jack, you’re going to be an amazing editor 
in chief and managing editor duo.
Congratulations, everyone! 
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Chloe Esser - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Chloe Esser 
As I’m sure everyone will say, nothing about this year has been normal. For me, this is  
compounded with the fact that I technically already graduated last quarter, but still, after  
four years I’ll be damned if I don’t get to write one of these things.
Where do I start? Tentatively joining during Spring Quarter my freshman year, feeling 
late to the game and more than a little insecure about my lack of experience? About 
joining Arts & Entertainment, something I never thought I would do — after all, isn’t a 
newspaper about News? — and falling in love with a whole other world of journalism and 
media?
Or do I start after that, with the hours I spent in the office with the other editors, sending 
memes in the A&E group chat, and dragging myself out of my apartment every Sunday 
morning for a production meeting?
There’s no question that The UCSD Guardian defined my college experience — from my 
first article interviewing a UC San Diego grad student to my final senior send off, I haveAccessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Chloe Esser - UCSD Guardian
grown as a writer in ways I never would have imagined, and found a community through the 
school  that I didn’t think was possible when I first set foot in recruitment. 
In my time with A&E, I’ve had the privilege of working with three different co-editors, two of  
which would go on to become Editor-in-Chief of the paper themselves. I don’t know if it’s  
impressive that I stayed with A&E so long, or if it shows a lack of ambition that I never tried  
to do anything else, but honestly, I loved where I was at. A&E, you’re the best. But you  
already knew that. 
I want to give special shout-outs to Sam and Alicia, who won’t read this but hired me my  
freshman year and subsequently changed the course of my college career. To Daisy, who 
went  from being my assistant to my co-editor to my boss, which is honestly What She 
Deserves, and I’m sure is just a preface to an incredible career in journalism. And of course, 
to Jahfreen, who was the best co I could have asked for and will thrive as EIC, and Hemmy, 
who I could not have more confidence in for the future of A&E. 
Class of 2020, it’s been weird; it’s been good; it’s been scary and frustrating, but it’s also sure  
as hell been worth it <3
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Annika Olives - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Annika Olives 
After a stressful four years of writing and editing for my high school newspaper, I thought I  
wanted a break from journalism in college. Yet, after not joining any creative organizations  
my fall quarter, I was aching to write. I don’t quite know what compelled me to turn in an  
application for the Guardian, but I soon found myself at a table in M.O.M., sitting across  
from the then-Lifestyle Editor, Brittney. I joined Lifestyle that very day, and though our 
team numbers have fluctuated from two to ten to three to seven over the last four years, 
every Lifestyle writer has shared the same passion and love for storytelling. 
Being on Lifestyle opened up my eyes to what journalism can be. While journalism is 
breaking news and current events, it can also be tales about culture or lists of family 
recipes. It can be living room conversations or odes to closed coffee shops, explorations of 
“home” or breaking down stigmas, speaking out about mental health struggles or candid 
takes on life. Journalism can be personal, indignant, passionate, beautiful, and sad. I’m 
grateful that Lifestyle has given me — and many others — a platform to share my thoughts, 
opinions, and ideas, and I hope the tradition of including personal narratives will continue 
for years to come. Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Annika Olives - UCSD Guardian
Thank you to the UCSD Guardian for reinstilling in me a love for journalism and for  
introducing me to a group of amazing people who always motivate me to report better, 
write  better, and do better. Thank you especially to Colleen, my co-editor and the next 
Lifestyle  Editor; the section is in incredible hands with you in the lead. In our present 
world, the need  for reliable, thoughtful, and conscious journalism is more important than 
ever, and I know future generations of Guardian writers will never cease to impress, amaze, 
and inspire.  
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Lara Sanli - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Lara Sanli 
Writing for The UCSD Guardian was without a doubt the most meaningful thing I did during  
my college experience. Through my investigations into topics affecting students, I learned  
about the journalistic metaphor of  “gathering string ,” or the process of connecting seemingly 
unrelated ideas to find a substantive story where no one would expect there to be one.
As a writer, and then as Features Editor, I spent my undergraduate career doing just that: I 
gathered ideas, combined them into something bigger, and looked for substance in the most 
unlikely of places. I found myself writing about weirdly niche topics such as Spotify’s 
algorithm or the commodification of self- care, and ultimately realized that there can be a 
story in anything —  should I try to look for it. Perhaps more so than any class I’ve taken, my 
time at The Guardian taught me to never stop asking questions.
I remember joining the Features section as a freshman without any journalism experience. I 
was shocked and excited to hear that the campus newspaper somehow accepted me, and 
decided to use the opportunity to explore different perspectives and experiment across 
different sections. I never anticipated that I would find my niche here or that the people atAccessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Lara Sanli - UCSD Guardian
The Guardian would become some of my closest friends. 
My fellow editors and writers are among the most intelligent, thoughtful, and hardworking  
people I’ve ever met. Throughout college, they supported me through the roughest of times  
and helped me learn from my mistakes. I’m honored to have worked with them. They hugely  
impacted my life for the better. 
To my Features writers — and to Nelson, especially —  I’m proud of you. Writing long-form,  
investigative articles is no small feat, especially when you have to work through millions of  
comments on the Google Doc. But as one of my favorite writers — I bet you all know who —
says, it’s an honor to be edited hard. You have all grown so much during your time here and 
I can’t wait to read your future articles. 
I’m honored to have been part of this newspaper. Thank you all for everything.  
Art by Angela Liang for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Alex Liang - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Guardian Staff 
I joined the Guardian as an artist in October of my very first year at UCSD, 2015, and have  
stuck with it and its art team for almost five years up until June 2020.
I’ve created dozens of illustrations for articles throughout the years, and I have saved 
every one that was physically printed.
This last year has been a trip, from filling in for recruitment twice to the quarantine 
leaving all illustrations on articles online only. Though I’m sad to leave the team, I 
understand the paper will be in the good hands of talented people.
Thank you for these years and all the great experiences!Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Anthony Tran - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Guardian Staff 
When I started college, I wanted to continue drawing as much as possible because it was a  
passion of mine. I searched the school for clubs related to art and joined as many as I could. I  
am graduating as a member of the Comicbook Club, Origami Folders, Intermission  
Orchestra, and The UCSD Guardian newspaper.
I joined the newspaper because I wanted to make comics and throughout the years, I created 
four different series that never seemed to finish. I illustrated many articles and had to teach 
myself design, color, and composition.
When I became Art editor my third year, I learned how to lead a group of talented artists and 
how to work with a passionate team of editors. It was a lot of hard work but I wanted to 
remember this experience in the future, so I collected each and every printed issue of the 
paper.
It was sad I was not able to do this for my last quarter. Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Anthony Tran - UCSD Guardian
Still find it amazing I was able to get so involved with the newspaper. (Coincidentally, at 
least  four people who had my high school AP English teacher entered their college 
newspapers.  Shout-out to Aileen Nguyen and Kristie-Valerie Hoang from the Daily Bruin 
and Divya Seth  from the Guardian.)
I am so blessed to have such a dedicated art team producing so much quality art, especially 
in my final quarter. They gave so much for the newspaper and their illustrations are a 
constant inspiration.
Also a huge thanks to my associated art editors Jessica Ni, Yui Kita, and finally Angela Liang  
who will be taking my position next year. They supported me and the newspaper so much  
when school work was piling up. I am happy to be part of such an open, friendly, and  
opinionated team and am grateful to have been able to spend my college time with them.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Laura Hatanaka - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Laura Hatanaka 
As I reflect on my two years with The UCSD Guardian, I am reminded of how fortunate I  
have been to experience all that the paper has offered me. It’s because of The Guardian that I  
have had the opportunity to watch “Anastasia” in orchestra seats at the San Diego Civic  
Theater on my birthday.
It’s because of The Guardian that I was able to learn more about myself as a writer as I 
gained confidence in my opinions and learned from my editors. It’s because of The Guardian 
that I was able to see the role of student journalism in socio-political activism. And most 
importantly to me, it’s because of The Guardian that I was privileged to meet and learn from 
so many of my incredible student peers.
I have cherished every moment spent with the paper, and especially with my Arts & 
Entertainment family, whom I thank for their love and support, particularly during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Laura Hatanaka - UCSD Guardian
I want to close by reaffirming my support and admiration for the Black Lives Matter  
Movement and what they represent. I am proud to have been a part of a student newspaper  
that values the rights and lives of the African American community, who have been  
systematically and historically disenfranchised. 
With love,
Laura HatanakaAccessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Steven Zhou - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Steven Zhou  
As someone who sucked at putting my thoughts to paper or even having a thought, I never  
would have pegged myself as a writer back in high school. Life decided otherwise I guess and  
I found myself hanging in the student media side of UC San Diego with some of the niche-est  
people on campus.
Through my experiences with writing and the random debates/duels in the office, I feel like 
I’ve gained an immeasurable amount of creativity and self-confidence that I would never 
have obtained with some random academic org, research lab, or satirical newspaper — who 
even reads satire these days?
Just as I could never have predicted my STEM-oriented self becoming a writer, so too am I 
unprepared for this insane yet anti-climatic end to my UCSD experience. Leaving Arts & 
Entertainment, especially like this, will be hard, but I look forward to seeing the section 
continue to evolve under newer, more talented whippersnappers.
Thank you editors for somehow not firing me after all these years, and thank you A&E kiddos 
for being such a boss section to be in. Zoom bless you. Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Jacob Sutherland - UCSD Guardian
 June 16, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
When I first joined The UCSD Guardian in October 2017 as an inexperienced Opinion 
writer, I could never have imagined that I would be sitting here today as News Editor, 
writing from the comfort of my home in Illinois amidst a global pandemic.
And yet here we are. Hi June 2020, how are ya?
I stepped into the role of News Editor at the end of April 2019, and it has been through this 
position where I have been able to improve my writing and leadership skills, as well as 
become a worse person, but in the best way possible [if you know, you know]. Likewise, I 
have had the privilege of writing “PC Princess,” a column which was initially stifled for a 
year and a half, but has grown into a body of work I am grateful to call my own.
I truly am proud of the work we have been able to accomplish this past year. Within my 
section, we have expanded the issues we cover, shed light on a number of important 
problems, and provided consistent coverage to what the student body cares about most, Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Jacob Sutherland - UCSD Guardian
whether that be the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the COLA protests, or anything in 
between  and beyond.
To my team: thank you so much for your dedication to your craft. This truly was a group  
effort and I have been so inspired by all that you have done and continue to do. Your passion  
for fair and honest coverage is something that cannot be said about every student 
newsroom, and for that, I am grateful.
To my fellow editors: y’all are literally amazing. Thank you all for trusting me to serve as  
News Editor, listening to my rants ranging from the serious [engagement is a hill I will die  
on] to the silly [Meghan McCain is most CERTAINLY a gay icon], and providing a sense of  
community when I had no where else to go.
To our outgoing Opinion Editor Geena: WE F*CKING DID IT. I truly could not have 
gotten  through this year without you, and I am so thankful to call you my work wife and 
one of my closest friends.
I wish I could tell you, dear reader, that I am on a flight right now across the country to  
accept a job as a columnist for The New York Times, but that unfortunately is not the case.  
And while I don’t know what the future holds, what I can tell you is this: even if you have to  
change from plan A to plan B to plan C, D, or E, as long as you stay motivated, you will  
accomplish amazing things. This has been a lesson I have learned during my tenure at The  
UCSD Guardian, and I couldn’t be happier for having had the opportunity to learn this.
Do amazing things, but don’t forget to take care of yourself along the way.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Ranjani Shankar - UCSD Guardian
 June 17, 2020   Ranjani Shankar 
I have had the chance to deeply reflect on my college experience the past few months,  
especially because of the COVID-19 pandemic placing everyone in quarantine. When I look  
back, I realize that a lot of the best decisions I made in college were opportunities I got purely  
by chance and luck. One of those decisions was joining The UCSD Guardian.
I still remember my first quarter at UC San Diego when I was looking for an extracurricular 
activity that would improve my writing skills. What better way to learn how to write than to 
join the campus newspaper? When I went to recruitment, I was in awe of all the editors that 
spoke about their sections. I could see everyone’s passion and how they contributed to the 
paper. But when I realized that I would have to submit a writing sample as a part of my 
application, I was immediately turned off by the idea of applying. I did not have any 
confidence in my writing abilities, and I was sure that I would be rejected. Moreover, the one 
section I was interested in joining, Arts & Entertainment, was extremely competitive to join 
and almost full. However, I still wanted to be a part of an organization in which students from 
different backgrounds and majors come together to publish a full-fledged newspaper.Accessed: 7/1/2020 Senior Sendoff: Ranjani Shankar - UCSD Guardian
My solution was to join the copy team. By coming in every Sunday for a few hours to read 
and edit the upcoming week’s articles, I hoped to get involved with the paper n  and also 
find a content section that I wanted to join. Fast forward a year and I realized the only 
section that  truly interested me was the one I was a part of all along — copy. My love for 
copy was  definitely not “love at first sight.” There were many Sundays where I would have 
rather slept  in or gone to brunch at the Bistro with my friends. But it didn’t take me very 
long to change  my mind. The interesting articles, discussions on strange topics, and debates 
on whether or  not to capitalize a word made it all worth it. I eventually became Head Copy 
Editor, but I  never expected to be Managing Editor during my final year at UCSD.
I previously believed that the highest positions in the paper were held by people who were  
intending to pursue journalism as a career. When Daisy asked me if I would want to apply 
to be Managing Editor, there were many questions that ran through my head. Why me? 
Would I be good enough? Weren’t there other people in the paper who were more 
passionate and  vocal than I was that could probably do a better job? But this time, these 
feelings of insecurity  and uncertainty were familiar because they were the exact same 
feelings I felt when I first  joined the paper. I knew at this moment, I was wrong. Even 
though I was not the most vocal  person in meetings, I cared deeply about the well-being of 
the paper and grew to be  extremely passionate about student journalism. I knew I would 
give it my all as Managing  Editor of The UCSD Guardian. And I definitely did even though I 
unexpectedly graduated a  quarter early and Spring Quarter was completely online
Lastly, I have to thank all the remarkable people I have met through the paper. Everyone’s  
opinion and perspective on various topics were enlightening and made me learn so much. I  
am not sure if I will ever get the chance to meet and interact with such a diverse group of  
people who share a passion for journalism. The editors this year were especially challenged  
due to the pandemic, but I am extremely proud of each and every one of them for how they  
handled their responsibilities during such a stressful time and allowed The UCSD Guardian 
to thrive against the odds. And, of course, congratulations to all the graduating seniors! We 
did it!Accessed: 7/1/2020 HDH Temporarily Lays Off Employees - UCSD Guardian
 June 18, 2020   Andrew Ha
UC San Diego Housing Dining Hospitality temporarily laid-off staff members on Monday,  
June 15 after the department saw major reductions in undergraduate housing and Summer  
Session occupancy due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The approximately 200 laid-off  
employees will not receive pay through the summer but will likely return to work at the 
beginning of September in time for Fall Quarter.
The workers will have two weeks of full salary pay until the end of June in accordance with 
the University of California’s pay continuity  program. Employees will also still have access 
to their UC-provided health benefits and support from the Faculty and Staff Assistance 
Program throughout the summer.
“HDH implemented numerous cost-saving measures, including hiring freezes and project 
deferments, but due to a substantial decrease in summer duties, HDH made the difficult 
decision to place some of their staff members on temporary layoff,” Associate 
Communications Director Leslie Sepuka said to The UCSD Guardian in an email. “We 
understand the pain and uncertainty this will cause… however, we must acknowledge and 
respond to the challenges our campus is facing as a result of the pandemic.”Accessed: 7/1/2020 HDH Temporarily Lays Off Employees - UCSD Guardian
Accessed: 7/1/2020 HDH Temporarily Lays Off Employees - UCSD Guardian
For HDH employees like Joe Fejeran, the news of the layoff came as a shock, even though it  
has been a real possibility since the rise of the pandemic. Workers are now left to find new  
ways to earn an income through the summer to support themselves and their families. 
“My immediate concern is everything to do with personal finances and weighing the options  
of picking up temporary work during this time,” Fejeran told The UCSD Guardian. “I’m  
choosing to remain positive though because it is a temporary layoff. In the meantime, there  
will be at least a month and a half where I won’t see a paycheck.”
Many have also taken to social media to publicize the lay-off and to garner financial support  
for the affected employees. A  GoFundMe page  has been created to support them by raising 
money through  the website, which will then be sent to Teamster and the American 
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees unions to be processed and sent 
directly to the workers. The funds will be divided evenly among the workers after fees are 
paid to GoFundMe.
Accessed: 7/1/2020 HDH Temporarily Lays Off Employees - UCSD Guardian
“The description says that Latinx folks predominantly make up the demographic of people  
who are laid-off,” Fejeran said. “When it comes down to this and living in the time of 
COVID,  which disproportionately affects [African and Latinx American] communities, I 
think about this particular fundraiser as a way for us to provide mutual aid.” 
In 2019, Hispanic or Latinos make up 24 percent of the professional and support staff  
workforce at UCSD. Although some employees are laid off for the summer, the University  
expects to reinstate all of them in September.
The UCSD Guardian has reached out to other affected employees for comment, but they 
have not responded back. 
The article was edited on June 23, 2020 at 6:45 PM to reflect a change in the way money 
would be distributed through the GoFundMe campaign.