Accessed: 6/10/2020 TV Review: "The Great" - UCSD Guardian
TV Review: “The Great”
 May 25, 2020   Chloe Esser 
“The Great” doesn’t care about history, and neither should you.
From creator of “The Favourite” Tony McNamara comes another historical retelling that 
slides right out of the conventions typically associated with the period drama genre into a 
terribly clever, terrifically dark piece of its own. “The Great” covers Russian empress 
Catherine the Great’s rise to power as a teenage girl  — with some massive liberties. The 
show neatly balances the courtly decadence and subtle power plays of “The Favourite” with 
the blood, sex, and quick wit that’s to be expected in a world where all historical dramas 
must compete to be the next “Game of Thrones.” Nevertheless, it’s a well-maintained 
balance. Heavily stylized, effortlessly witty, and maybe a bit needlessly obscene, “The 
Great” is a show that knows exactly what it is, whether or not that has anything to do with 
actual history.  
The show begins with German teenager Catherine (Elle Fanning), who has come to Russia 
to marry a man she has never met –– Emperor Peter III (Nicholas Hoult). An idealist and 
intellectual caught up in the wave of Europe’s Enlightenment, Catherine has big plans forTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 6/10/2020 TV Review: "The Great" - UCSD Guardian
her new home, and she is disappointed to find a court more concerned with hunting, sex, 
and booze than discussing the latest Voltaire. With Catherine caught between her own 
idealism  and the darker waves of discontent within the court, there seems to be one obvious 
way to  create the Russia she wants: lead a coup and murder her husband. 
On the surface, this matches up well enough with history, although even a cursory glance at  
Wikipedia shows that anything beyond a barebones description of the show is pure fiction.  
However, “The Great” revels in its own inaccuracies, appropriately subtitled “an occasionally  
true story.” Refreshingly, this pointed lack of interest in history allows the show to take  
liberties period pieces rarely do, including its tongue-in-cheek tone and its freedom to  
develop characters and plot lines however they wish. McNamara also used color blind  
casting, which allowed actors of color to feature in major roles within the royal court instead  
of being relegated to the background, as they so often are in the genre.
Fanning’s and Hoult’s performances as the unhappy couple are equally compelling and  
hilarious. Fanning’s Catherine is stunning and headstrong –– her early portrayal may  
frustrate audiences with her naivety, but she also inspires with her compassion and idealism.  
“The Great” allows us to watch her grow from a child to a woman of great political cunning  
within this harsh world she’s stepped into –– but always on her terms. 
Hoult, in contrast, is all comedy, and perhaps the show’s biggest selling point. Peter is  
hilarious, petty, and nearly child-like, yet often shocking with his out-of-proportion 
brutality. Still, Hoult’s performance almost  gives you hope for the character, even after his 
atrocities. 
The show, whose foundation is built around how badly these people fit into each other’s 
worlds, is at its absolute best when the two characters clash. Both begin as naive in their own 
way, with Catherine a genuine innocent and Peter still convinced that the world is his 
plaything, and their brutal back-and-forth of both admiration and hatred is easily the core of 
the show’s ten episodes. This core is reinforced, by a well-developed supporting cast. “The 
Great” establishes side characters’ private storylines and personal ambitions with the easy 
comedy of an ensemble-based sitcom, and it’s only when the show’s political wheels really 
start to turn that it becomes clear that what they’ve really been doing is laying out a 
chessboard. But don’t let that fool you –– at the end of the day, this is Catherine’s story, and 
the final moments are all hers. 
Still, the show is not without its flaws –– at the risk of sounding prudish, the series’ dark 
humor sometimes relies too heavily on its lewdness. There’s some degree to which the Accessed: 6/10/2020 TV Review: "The Great" - UCSD Guardian
obscenity feels appropriate to juxtaposing the show’s obscene world against the sheltered  
Catherine. And then, to another degree, it’s just funny. Nevertheless, there are only so many  
times you can watch Peter give detailed accounts of sexual exploits before feeling like the  
writers just didn’t know what else to do. “The Great” is also annoyingly guilty of the all-too-
common “all Europeans have British accents” fallacy so many shows seem to fall into, though  
this is a small offense. 
Overall, “The Great” juggles its material well, managing history with modern aesthetic tastes,  
mixing darkness with humor, and balancing its often stunning visuals with an occasional  
unapologetic gruesomeness oddly well. History fan or not, “The Great” is well worth the  
watch.
Grade: B+
Creator: Tony McNamara
Starring:  Elle Fanning, Nicholas Hoult, Phoebe Fox, Sacha Dhawan
Release date:  May 15, 2020 on Hulu
Rated:  TV-MA
Image courtesy of Den of Greek.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Head-to-head: In the age of COVID-19, Should Food Delivery Companies Provide more Benefits to their W orkers? - UCSD Guardian
 May 25, 2020   Pankhuri Kohli 
In this head-to-head, UCSD Guardian Opinion writer’s Sean Kim and Pankhuri Kohli 
present different views on how to help food delivery workers during the COVID-19 
pandemic.
Pankhuri Kohli – Yes!
During the time of COVID-19, delivery workers who work for food and grocery companies are 
crucial in providing normalcy. They deliver food and essential items and help local 
businesses stay afloat. Furthermore, since so many college students order online and 
participate in related jobs, this issue impacts us deeply. However, despite the significant role 
delivery workers play in our lives, they do not receive proper compensation and support. In 
the midst of a global pandemic, such conditions put delivery people and their consumers at 
risk. Thus, while COVID-19 remains an imminent threat, delivery companies need to provide 
better pay and benefits for their delivery workers. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Head-to-head: In the age of COVID-19, Should Food Delivery Companies Provide more Benefits to their W orkers? - UCSD Guardian
Since the pandemic began, more than 36 million people have filed for unemployment. Still, 
the unique demands of  the pandemic mean that the gig economy, which consists of 
temporary and flexible job  positions, has been one of the few  sectors hiring. Usually, 
delivery workers work for  supplemental income, flexible hours, and the freedom to work for 
multiple companies.  However, current conditions have increasingly made delivery work 
people’s primary job. In  fact, almost a third of gig workers  work full-time in their jobs. 
Despite changing circumstances though, delivery jobs do not  offer minimum wage, overtime 
pay, and benefits such as insurance and paid sick leave. While  these conditions make sense 
when people have the choice to treat delivery work as  supplemental, that is increasingly not 
the case. Thus, treating all delivery jobs as  supplemental endangers the well-being of 
workers who work full-time and rely primarily on  these jobs for basic necessities.
In addition to short-changing workers, the lack of benefits and adequate pay hurts 
customers  as well. Since companies underpay workers, delivery workers rely on customer 
tips to make  ends meet. As a result, worker pay becomes volatile even though customers 
taking on the  burden to pay more does not guarantee  them better service. This adds stress 
for workers and puts additional burden on customers without benefit to either party. To 
make matters worse, like most essential workers, delivery workers are constantly exposed to 
the coronavirus. However, their limited access to protective gear, health care, or paid sick  
leave incentivizes working when  sick, increasing the risk of infection for consumers. 
Consequently, delivery workers’ access to health care and paid sick leave is imperative not 
only to their own but also to their communities’ well-being. 
Moreover, bettering working conditions for delivery workers ensures that they benefit from 
the profit companies make from their labor. While countless companies have lost money 
due to the pandemic, tech companies such as those employing delivery workers have been 
the least affected.  Ensuring that companies adequately take care of delivery workers 
provides them their fair share for bolstering companies in this trying time. Additionally, 
while companies and their shareholders make profit, many delivery workers have to use 
unemployment benefits to survive, despite the fact that their employers do not contribute  to 
these payments. The need for delivery workers to use social safety nets unfairly burdens 
taxpayers. Furthermore, the government having to protect workers who should be protected 
by the employers they make money for takes away funds from other necessary services, 
which is particularly detrimental in this time of crisis. Additionally, in a broader economic 
sense, paying workers fairly is imperative to recover from the current financial crisis 
because without workers who can buy goods and services, we do not have consumers. 
Ultimately, the COVID-19 crisis continues to exacerbate inequities in our current economic Accessed: 6/10/2020 Head-to-head: In the age of COVID-19, Should Food Delivery Companies Provide more Benefits to their W orkers? - UCSD Guardian
system, such as the unequal burden put on workers to sustain risk. Moreover, companies  need 
to ensure delivery workers are protected for the sake of their consumers too, especially  as 
worker health is also community health. Additionally, ensuring adequate pay and benefits  for 
delivery workers is a necessary step in removing unfair burdens from workers and  taxpayers 
and ensuring economic recovery. To truly recover and learn from the lessons of  this 
pandemic, companies must provide delivery workers fair compensation and necessary  
benefits.
Sean Kim – No!
The age of COVID-19 has led many to shutter in their homes for weeks on end. One solace for 
many is food delivery, in which people can get their favorite foods ordered to their homes. But 
during a pandemic, the concerns around the health of delivery drivers are now more 
important than ever. Many drivers face significantly higher risks of contracting COVID-19 ––
they need to be in physical contact with the general public in order to be able to deliver food. 
Despite this, delivery drivers do not have access to benefits such as paid leave nor health 
insurance. But while drivers should absolutely have access to health insurance in one form or 
another, health insurance and other essential benefits that are tied to one specific employer 
could ultimately harm the workers more than it could help them.
Delivery drivers for services such as DoorDash, UberEats, Postmates, and the like are not 
legally classified as regular employees — they are independent contractors.  As such, labor 
laws like minimum wage and mandates for full-time benefits do not apply to them.  
While these are the downsides of being an independent contractor, the flip side of such a 
status is the flexibility and independence that such workers theoretically have; the Internal 
Revenue Service has mandated that companies  cannot exert a great deal of control over 
contractors on how they do their jobs.  And as someone who worked as a driver before the 
pandemic, this lack of control was clear. Delivery apps themselves could not determine when, 
where, and how I worked. I could determine when and how long I wanted to work. Any shift 
could stop at any time, purely at my discretion, and the company could not exert control over 
that fact. And in my specific situation, the flexibility afforded me the ability to pick my own 
hours and not have to work when I had lots of schoolwork. 
But new challenges in the context of COVID-19 have made many question the morality of such 
a classification. And this view is understandable –– drivers should have access to things such 
as health insurance. However, the problem lies in whom the insurance should come from. 
Insurance from the company itself could be problematic; insurance through an unaffiliated 
third party would not. Despite this, many point to the health insurance that many employee-     Accessed: 6/10/2020 Head-to-head: In the age of COVID-19, Should Food Delivery Companies Provide more Benefits to their W orkers? - UCSD Guardian
classified workers have access to from their employers and draw an analogy  to other 
independent contractors. At the surface, mandating that delivery apps provide  health 
insurance to their workers makes a lot of sense. However, such a position  misunderstands the 
differences in how these jobs work. Independent contractors do not  necessarily work for one 
specific company, and their jobs depend on the flexibility afforded to  them by being 
independent.
Mandating that the company itself provide health insurance could have a major unforeseen 
consequence for independent contractors: dependence on the company for health insurance 
benefits. This can be problematic for drivers who work for more than one service, which is 
quite often the more profitable thing to do. This is because it is more efficient to have multiple 
services running and looking for orders in order to reduce one’s downtime and therefore lost 
money. For example, in my case, running the DoorDash, Postmates, and UberEats driver apps 
simultaneously was the fastest and easiest way to receive more orders. For such drivers who 
work full-time, determining which company should provide health insurance would be 
fundamentally unclear. This is due to the fact that in a proper independent contractor 
relationship, the company is the contractor’s client — not their manager.
Furthermore, even if such vagueness could be resolved, the driver could ultimately end up 
becoming dependent on the delivery service for their health insurance. Should the companies 
themselves be forced into providing health insurance for their workers, it would not be far-
fetched to predict future exclusivity arrangements or merely a minimum number of orders 
required between the driver and the service. Such arrangements would erode the flexibility 
that such workers need as part of their jobs. Companies in the industry have also shown in the 
past that worker exploitation, such as tip theft, is not off the table. Such a dependence creates 
vulnerability, in which drivers would be unable to leave a service and head to better paying 
apps due to the health insurance they depend on from that company. In a time of a pandemic, 
such dependence is enhanced even further. While employee-classified workers face similar 
challenges and dependencies, they are already dependent on their specific employer because 
of the nature of their jobs; employer-employee statuses are defined by the exclusivity of the 
worker to the company, while such a standard does not apply to independent contractors.
By mandating company-specific insurance, delivery drivers may face a “worst of both worlds” 
type of situation: they would face the lack of flexibility that employees have while also facing 
the vulnerable nature of their employment that comes with contractor work. However, if 
health insurance is provided for by an external, uninvolved party, such as subsidized private 
insurance or government programs like Medicare, the need for health insurance for these 
workers could be met while also acknowledging the downsides such a mandate would bring.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Head-to-head: In the age of COVID-19, Should Food Delivery Companies Provide more Benefits to their W orkers? - UCSD Guardian
Health insurance for these workers should absolutely be a given, but mandating company-
paid insurance would ultimately make the nature of their jobs more complicated and difficult.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Growing Up as a Filipina-American - UCSD Guardian
Growing Up as a Filipina-American
 May 25, 2020   Priscilla Puno 
Before May ends, I wanted to recognize Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, which  
celebrates the accomplishments representing Asian American and Pacific Islander  
communities. Growing up as a Filipino-American, my experiences, both good and bad, have  
shaped me into who I am today.
Both of my parents emigrated from the Philippines with a vision of the “American Dream,” 
hoping to build a family and to flourish in the rich culture of the United States. Born in the 
southernmost part of San Diego, with a predominantly Filipino and Hispanic population, I 
was encouraged to build a community. This experience made us feel the basic human desire 
of belonging, and it seemed that we found our place in society.
I was around five years old when my parents decided to pick up all our stuff and move to the 
suburbs. With white picket fences and perfectly mowed grass, I started to experience small 
hints of microaggression.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Growing Up as a Filipina-American - UCSD Guardian
Throughout elementary school, my peers commented on the thickness of my hair, the  
darkness of my skin, and the shape of my eyes. I would bring traditional Filipino foods, such  
as sinigang or adobo, as my school lunch and receive snide remarks about how my food
“smelled weird.” At the ripe young age of seven, I felt the need to assimilate with my peers. I  
started asking my parents to pack me “normal” school lunches, leaving me with apples and  
ham sandwiches. Throughout my youth, I would beg my parents to change the littlest of  
things, such as serving pizza at birthday parties or even asking them to let me bleach my hair.  
I was subconsciously adhering to the standards of society and those around me. 
As an impressionable seven-year-old, I wasn’t capable of understanding how this would  affect 
me in the future. All I knew was I felt the need to fit in with my predominantly white  peers. As 
time went on, I reached high school and more aggressive comments were made.  Many would 
still comment on my eye shape and how it could potentially affect my driving.  One remark 
that will forever stick with me is being called “exotic.” The main thing people  would comment 
on was the color of my skin. Whether as a compliment or someone saying
“you’re too dark to be Asian,” it’s as if these words were permanently inked on my body.  
Growing up as a Filipina-American, my skin color was heavily mentioned in my family and by  
strangers. With colorism rampant throughout Southeast Asian countries, I was encouraged  to 
use papaya soaps and skin bleaching remedies to downplay my skin color. With my  
concentration heavily focused on the color of my skin, I embraced my culture less, and in  
turn, lost myself overall.
As I befriended more of my Asian American peers during high school, I suddenly felt a  
growing sense of belonging again. We understood our similar lifestyles, struggles, and ability  
to power through microaggressive comments. I was fortunate enough to have a group of  
friends that understood how our upbringings shaped who we were, and despite our small  
community, we proudly walked through the campus with our heads held high.
It wasn’t until college that I truly experienced a diverse student body. During my first quarter 
at UC San Diego, I joined the on-campus Filipino organization, Kaibigang Pilipin@, where I 
was able to truly immerse myself in the culture that wasn’t present in my youth. I’ve met 
amazing people through this club and it has helped guide me in my identity as a Filipino-
American. From its coordinated events to general board meetings, the Kaibigang Pilipin@ 
community has become a safe space for individuals like me to gain a sense of their cultural 
identity.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Growing Up as a Filipina-American - UCSD Guardian
On-campus Asian-American organizations help empower members of the student body to  
celebrate their identity and bring together a cultural community. Despite my negative  
experiences, I’ve learned the importance of growing with a group of people who understand  
who you are, where you have been, and what you are capable of.
APAHM has taught me to have pride in my culture and remind me of the traditions that have  
created not only my identity but the country as a whole. Despite chaotic times, diversity  
throughout the U.S. has influenced all aspects of society. This month signifies Asian  
Americans and Pacific Islanders who have felt lost, recognizing the events and individuals  
that continue to represent these communities.
Although the world is far from perfect, it’s these moments that allow us to reflect and  
appreciate the accomplishments that have been made by the Asian and Pacific American  
communities throughout the years.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Have No Fear, Sunflower Industry Won’t Wither Without MLB Customers - UCSD Guardian
 May 25, 2020  Jack Dorfman  
Dill pickle. Cracked pepper. Chilé lime. Ranch. Taco Supreme.
These are just a few of the many flavors offered by sunflower seed companies across the 
United States. These seeds, and others with similarly wacky flavors, have been enjoyed for 
the better part of the 21st century by baseball players of all ages.
Like bubble gum, sunflower seeds have been a healthy alternative to replace tobacco as the 
ballplayer’s chewing distraction of choice.
BIGS, one of the major sunflower seed companies that caters toward the baseball audience, 
proudly declares on their website how baseball and sunflower seeds go way back. 
Beginning in the 1950s and 1960s, sunflower seeds began to replace tobacco, and by the 
1980s, sunflower seeds were ubiquitous within the game.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Have No Fear, Sunflower Industry Won’t Wither Without MLB Customers - UCSD Guardian
The official sunflower seed purveyor of baseball and softball, DAVID sunflower seeds  
partners with Minor League Baseball and donates hundreds of sunflower seed packages to  
each Minor League team to help keep players away from tobacco, according to the National  
Sunflower Association website.
Sunflower seeds have become synonymous with America’s national pastime, and baseball  
players have become some of the biggest marketers for the snack. “The players eat a small  
amount [of seeds] overall but they are a great promotional tool,” John Sandbakken,  
Executive Director of the National Sunflower Association and a 24-year veteran of the  
sunflower industry, said. “We always encourage people to have healthy habits and baseball  
has been a great promoter of that.”
But with the coronavirus pandemic comes change. Due to the nature of the virus and its easy  
transferability via water droplets, if Major League Baseball comes back, the league has  
decided there will be no spitting and no sunflower seeds allowed.
For a Southern Californian kid whose childhood entirely revolved around baseball, this news  
sounded like a knockout blow for the sunflower seed industry. I’d never really seen anyone  
eating sunflower seeds outside the friendly confines of a baseball diamond. Unlike gum,  
sunflower seeds didn’t seem to have a wide market to weather a pandemic-altered season.
But even without their biggest and brightest marketers, the sunflower seed industry doesn’t  
seem too worried.
“There’s 330 million people in the U.S. and most of them aren’t baseball players,” 
Sandbakken said. “Anytime you lose a market you’ll feel it, but the majority of seeds aren’t 
eaten by baseball players; it wouldn’t be huge.”
Despite Sandbakken’s assurances, I’m still worried for the three brands I associated 
exclusively with baseball: BIGS, DAVID, and GIANTS. These three brands more than any 
other showed up in baseball bags throughout my career in dugouts and baseball bags all 
around the West coast.
GIANTS is associated with four MLB clubs, the San Francisco Giants, Minnesota Twins, 
Colorado Rockies, and Texas Rangers, but there doesn’t seem to be a definitive ruling on 
losing sunflower seeds for the season just yet. “We haven’t had much discussion on that level 
yet as they are still waiting for final details,” Robert Schuler, Vice President of Marketing for 
Giant Snacks, said. “A lot of teams already had regular season shipments sent out as we were 
nearing the end of training camp.”Accessed: 6/10/2020 Have No Fear, Sunflower Industry Won’t Wither Without MLB Customers - UCSD Guardian
Despite this connection and the increasingly long delay to the start of the baseball season,  
GIANTS doesn’t seem too worried.
“We believe that people chew sunflower seeds all over the place,” Schuler said. “My wife and  
father in-law only usually eat them at home watching TV, which I had no idea was a thing. I  
eat them at the office or outside. Many people eat seeds while driving, fishing, hunting, [or]  
sitting at the lake. While eating seeds goes hand in hand with baseball, people eat seeds  
everywhere.”
Sandbakken amplified that sentiment. “People are looking forward to finding ways to go  
outside. People want to enjoy the outdoors.”
Despite my baseball-centric perspective, the data backs this up. According to the National  
Agricultural Statistics Service, over the past three years U.S. sunflower farms produced an  
average of 265,325,000 pounds of confectionary or non-oil seeds, the type you find in  
baseball bags around the country. Despite the best efforts of ballplayers around the country,  
upwards of 250 million pounds of seeds is far more than baseball players alone could  
possibly chew on their own.
But either way, players will be unable to chew their way through this year’s harvest while on 
the field, no matter how many new flavors shells are coated with. While the industry may be 
stung by the season’s losses, Sandbakken sees the bigger picture.
“Any way to keep players and families is important. As we move beyond this season, we hope 
that we won’t lose that ability to have baseball players market the product, but we hope this 
is temporary.”
And so do I, because I have four bags of taco-flavored seeds waiting to go in my pantry that I 
can’t wait to stash in my bag and bring to the field.
Art by Susan SunAccessed: 6/10/2020 In the Decision to Reopen Sports, Who Calls the Shots? - UCSD Guardian
 May 25, 2020   Praveen Nair 
More than two thirds of states will be relaxing pandemic regulations this week, and  
discussions abound in every major American institution over the fragile decision to  
eventually return to life as normal. Sports, of course, are no exception. Although it’ll be  
months before tens of thousands of fans can safely pack arenas, and even longer until they  
can do so without protective equipment and significant paranoia, plans are already 
underway in every major sport for a limited return to action. But while everyone seems to 
have their own opinions on what to do, the hard choices ahead have brought to light an age-
old question: Between fans, owners, and athletes, who really runs sports?
The most heated discussions around reopening this week occurred in the MLB, as owners 
proposed a plan to begin spring training in June with an 82-game season ending in 
November; the plan also calls for 10,000 COVID-19 tests per week. The owners’ proposal, 
itself unlikely to be accepted without significant amendment due to player salaries being 
reduced to below even the previously agreed-upon prorated levels, received a 67-page reply 
from the MLB players’ union describing health and safety measures. The document all but 
confirms that when it returns, baseball will look markedly different: Players sit in the stands 
instead of the dugout, high fives, hugs, and even spitting will be banned, and fielders will be 
encouraged to step away from baserunners between pitches. Accessed: 6/10/2020 In the Decision to Reopen Sports, Who Calls the Shots? - UCSD Guardian
But even with these changes, which themselves will be an uphill battle to constantly enforce,  
there is still concern from players on the viability of the season. Washington Nationals  
reliever Sean Doolittle expressed his doubts on Twitter, pointing out that the MLB could  
divert necessary resources from hospitals and essential workers, and that many team and  
stadium staff members could be vulnerable — let alone players with pre-existing conditions).  
“It feels like the conversation about an MLB restart has shifted to the economic issues and  
that’s really frustrating,” Doolittle wrote. “Until there’s a vaccine, let’s focus on keeping  
everyone as safe as possible & minimizing the risks so we can play baseball again.” There is  
also the question of what it might take for the season to be suspended again – given that, at  
the very least, one in every couple hundred Americans has contracted COVID-19, how many  
positive tests out of the few thousand people involved in professional baseball will it take to  
shut it back down?
While the NBA pre-season normally does not begin until the end of September, the  
discussions around its return are similarly shrouded in uncertainty. The NBA, as you might  
remember, had the most dramatic sports closure in mid-March, as All-Star center Rudy  
Gobert’s positive test forced a rushed cancellation of a game just minutes before tipoff. This  
week, in what can only be called the Dream Team of Zoom calls, LeBron James, Anthony  
Davis, Kevin Durant, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Kawhi Leonard, Stephen Curry, and Russell  
Westbrook reportedly spoke and unanimously agreed that the season should finish. 
But, of course, this is far from a full endorsement of NBA players. e’ve seen that star players’ 
interests often do not align with the rank-and-file, most recently in the NFL’s collective 
bargaining agreement); however, Yahoo’s Chris Haynes reported that most players favored 
going directly to a playoff without playing the remaining 15 to 19 regular season games per 
team, which would halve the number of exposed players and personnel. 
Yet the NBA, like any league attempting to reopen under the current circumstances, has some 
tough questions to answer. Basketball, more than baseball, has a great deal of close physical 
contact, and if even a single player or staff member contracts COVID-19 — which is 
symptomless in many cases, especially for those with the physical gifts of an NBA player —the 
league could rapidly have an outbreak on its hands, even with the most stringent social 
distancing and testing measures. It took just hours to close down the NBA after Gobert’s 
diagnosis. Even if the NBA is able to continue to play under these circumstances, it’s 
debatable whether the resources and mental strain required are worth the return of the 
league. If a single positive test would shut down the league, commissioner Adam Silver said, 
“we probably shouldn’t go down this path.” So the league faces a tough choice between 
playing through multiple positive tests, and restarting the league only to stop it in the likely 
event of a player or staff test. Accessed: 6/10/2020 In the Decision to Reopen Sports, Who Calls the Shots? - UCSD Guardian
In addition to the legitimate public health nightmare that is reopening sports, the tension  
between ownership and players is reaching a boiling point. The owners of sports franchises  
have obviously been in favor of reopening, understandably, due to the amount of money their  
billion-dollar holdings have been hemorrhaging during this crisis. But franchise owners don’t  
have to worry about being down on the field, and they also have less cause to worry about lost  
revenue — the rate of appreciation of sports teams as a financial asset will more than cover  
that. Luckily for the players, however, all four major sports leagues’ athletes are represented  
by relatively powerful unions, preventing owners from outright forcing athletes to play. 
But missing in all this, of course, is the role of the fan. And the above financial arguments  
might sound ridiculous to all of us down here on the ground — just the bickering of multi-
millionaires against multi-billionaires. After all, as states begin to reopen, millions of  
employees across the country, lacking both the strong union representation and income of  
professional athletes, will be forced by necessity to return to their jobs with trepidation. Yet  
it’s still concerning to see people, from sports commentators to regular social media  
commenters, demand that players suck it up and return to work. 
It’s a curious phenomenon in nearly every sports labor dispute, wherein a large contingent of 
fans carry water for ownership by complaining about the supposed entitlement of players 
refusing to play, either because of their large salaries, the fact that they play a sport for a 
living, or because fans just want to see their favorite pastime back. But it’s always good to 
remember that athletes can be taken advantage of too, and that they aren’t any less 
reasonable than any other worker demanding their right to safety and the wages they’ve 
agreed to. If anything, our response as fans to the disconnect between the privileges of players 
and those of healthcare workers and essential employees shouldn’t be to chastise the athletes 
for having it too good – it’s to ask why the real heroes around us aren’t owed better. 
We all want to see sports back as soon as possible—as someone who writes sports articles 
every week, that feeling is as intense as anyone else’s.) But the need to watch our favorite 
stars should at the very least be accompanied by a respect for their rights and safety, as well 
as for the coaches and staff that support them. Reopening too late will incur an opportunity 
cost, yes, and it will be tough for the billions of sports fans around the world. But reopening 
too early could be at best stressful, and at worst, fatal. However much we may look to them as 
an escape from the world around us, sports remain inextricably a part of real life, full of real 
people with fears like you and I. If the demands of players for a safe working environment 
seem too far out of line with the ways in which we treat the workers who are actually 
responsible for running our country, then it should be obvious whose situation really needs to 
be changed.
Art by Anthony TranAccessed: 6/10/2020 Disruption and Disconnect: Zoom and the State of Remote Learning - UCSD Guardian
 May 25, 2020   Max Davis 
In the era of remote learning, Zoom provides a necessary educational service. Still, students  
and teachers raise concerns about classroom security and the effectiveness of learning  
remotely.
From college students to  kindergarteners, many current students know of Zoom through 
school since teachers began using the video conferencing tool as a means of remote 
instruction during the COVID-19 pandemic. But Zoom, a communications software company 
founded in 2011, was a video conferencing system fairly common in the workplace long 
before the platform’s sharp increase in popularity  due to the coronavirus. In a post on 
Zoom’s blog, Eric Yuan, the company’s CEO, said that in December 2019, the maximum daily 
number of Zoom users was roughly 10 million  people. Once schools and businesses began 
shutting down in response to the pandemic, those numbers exploded. In March 2020, Zoom 
reported 200 million daily meeting participants. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Disruption and Disconnect: Zoom and the State of Remote Learning - UCSD Guardian
In the same blog post, Yuan said that Zoom “was built primarily for enterprise customers —
large institutions with full IT support.” Before COVID-19, Zoom’s primary customers were  
large corporations, agencies, and some universities, not the average worker or student. 
Now, it seems like everyone uses Zoom in some capacity, often for class. Yuan reported that  
since February, over 90,000 schools have started using Zoom, all while competitors like  
Google Hangouts and Skype struggle to stand out.
Zoom offers a useful service, but some students warn of disruptions. Thurgood Marshall  
College freshman Lance Freiman recalled a past chemistry lecture where “someone who had  
joined the lecture late was unmuted” and began unintentionally “talking into their  
microphone” and distracting the class. Freiman said the disruption went on for at least a few  
minutes before “the professor finally couldn’t ignore” and had to intervene, asking the entire  
class to mute. 
Freiman lamented the increased opportunity for classroom disruption, noting that these  
types of disruptions on Zoom “happen at least once in almost every class.” 
Roger Revelle College freshman Ritika Singh shared a similar sentiment and added that part  
of the problem with disruptions is “professors are not equipped to handle these situations”  
due to inexperience with the new technology. 
Dr. Brian Leigh, an assistant teaching professor in the chemistry and biochemistry 
department here at UC San Diego, disagreed with the notion that professors are unprepared 
to stop class interruptions on Zoom. “I rotate passwords and retain the ability to mute the 
room and have the option checked so that if I kick someone out they cannot return,” he said, 
and he added that such features are easy to find in Zoom’s settings. 
Many teachers at UCSD have started using Zoom to teach classes remotely, but there have 
been some exceptions. Singh noted that Zoom has not been used universally by teachers on 
campus. “Half of my classes have pre-recorded lectures and the other half are on Zoom,” she 
said. 
Dimensions of Culture, also called DOC, is a writing sequence taken by all Marshall 
students. DOC professors decided to use pre-recorded podcasts and written content this 
quarter rather than hosting lectures on Zoom. I reached out to Dr. Megan Strom, a DOC 
lecturer, who said that part of the decision to use podcasts instead of holding lectures on 
Zoom was due to “concerns about access to reliable Internet, changes in living Accessed: 6/10/2020 Disruption and Disconnect: Zoom and the State of Remote Learning - UCSD Guardian
arrangements, increased family  and work responsibilities, and people living and learning in 
various time zones.” 
Access to technology is a potential concern for schools and students during this crisis. If a  
student does not have a working computer or reliable Internet at home, then they likely have  
no option but to fall behind as many libraries and other public resources are closed.  
Additionally, access to technology and the Internet is largely a  matter of wealth, and low 
income students are less likely to be able to afford all the technology  required for remote 
learning. The New York Times reports  that schools with many low income students have had 
particularly high absence rates during  the pandemic, likely due to issues with computer 
access. The switch to remote learning via  the Internet allows many students to continue their 
education during the COVID-19  pandemic, but the switch also places others at a serious 
disadvantage with new obstacles to  overcome.
Dr. Strom noted that the DOC program also considered privacy issues when deciding against  
using Zoom for lecture. “Particularly in the large lecture settings, we did not want students 
to be required to be on Zoom with so many other students without being able to ensure that 
all those present were enrolled in the class and respecting everyone’s privacy,” Dr. Strom 
said. 
In fact, Dr. Strom mentioned that she has “major concerns about the privacy issues 
associated with online learning tools including instances of Zoom bombing and other forms 
of harassment in digital interactions.”
The UCSD administration shares these concerns. In a campus notice from Brett Pollak, the 
director of Workplace Technology Services, and Michael Corn, the chief information security 
officer, the administration encouraged faculty to exercise “due diligence and caution using 
Zoom.” The notice warned of “Zoom bombing,” which it defines as “meeting hacking,” and 
stressed that Zoom bombing can go beyond harmless pranking. In fact, the notice warned 
that “the FBI has received multiple reports of conferences being disrupted by pornographic 
and/or hate images and threatening language” at other schools, and that UCSD has had 
similar reports. 
Some recorded examples from around the country of lighthearted Zoom pranks have gone 
viral, but many other cases have been much more serious, with some even resulting in 
student arrests. Some darker reports of Zoom bombing involve unwanted users spreading 
hate speech or explicit imagery, or even sharing personal details about other users. In early 
May, Zoom pledged to do more to prevent Zoom bombing in response to the recent uptick. Accessed: 6/10/2020 Disruption and Disconnect: Zoom and the State of Remote Learning - UCSD Guardian
Part of that response will involve investigating and banning perpetrators. Still, some 
school districts  and companies  have banned Zoom rather than contend with Zoom 
bombers. 
UCSD provided a list of “Zoom Meeting Safeguards” for faculty and staff, advising them on 
appropriate  measures they can take to prevent class disruptions on Zoom. Tips such as 
“mute  participants” or “turn off file transfer” guide teachers on how to control their virtual  
classrooms and protect them from “unwanted” and “unsolicited” content.
At the end of the provided list of safeguards, under the header “Keep Zooming 
Responsibly,” some postscript reminders highlight the importance of a basic respect for 
privacy on Zoom. These guidelines tell teachers to “always advise attendees that they are 
being recorded,” and take other measures to respect privacy, such as hiding attendees 
names when appropriate, and never recording Zoom meetings where protected health 
information is discussed. 
Dr. Leigh found that the main challenge of teaching a course using online learning tools 
like Zoom is the decrease in student engagement, not Zoom bombing or meeting security. 
Dr. Leigh said that in a normal week, his chemistry help rooms “would normally have 
around 100 people in it for two hours if this were in person.” This quarter, however, far 
fewer people are showing up; Dr. Leigh reported that on the day of our interview, only 11 
people attended his Zoom help sessions. 
This lack of engagement shows that some students are really struggling  with the switch to 
online learning. Singh has found Zoom useful given current circumstances, but overall a 
more uncomfortable learning experience than the usual lecture hall. “I find it hard to 
participate on Zoom because I feel very disconnected from my TA and my classmates,” 
Singh said, which “can often be a struggle since I am graded for my participation in many 
of these sections.”
The disconnect and lack of engagement in Singh and Dr. Leigh’s description of remote 
learning has been felt by schools around the country that are trying to cope with a 
struggling student body. Many universities have switched to some type of pass or fail 
grading system in response. At UCSD, the grading policy changed for Spring 2020 to allow 
students to opt in for pass or no-pass grading in any and all classes. 
With the world shut down and people staying inside, the current state of education, 
probably brought to you by Zoom, is unlike anything experienced before. Dr. Leigh, whoAccessed: 6/10/2020 Disruption and Disconnect: Zoom and the State of Remote Learning - UCSD Guardian
teaches a lab  course, said that his current students “are missing out on the experience of 
physically doing  the work” and added that he hopes “it does not penalize them in the future.” 
Zoom may never be the perfect remote learning tool. As Dr. Leigh said, “There is no 
substitute for doing. We  can only do the best we can.”
Graphic from Ink Drop / Shutterstock.com.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Academic Senate Approves Minor in Native American and Indigenous Studies - UCSD Guardian
 May 25, 2020  Troy Tuquero 
The UC San Diego Academic Senate Undergraduate Council approved the establishment of a  
minor in Native American and indigenous studies, effective Fall Quarter 2020, during its  
May 8 meeting. The minor is expected to be interdisciplinary in its study of the culture,  
politics, history, and contemporary experiences of indigenous peoples in the United States 
with comparative examples from communities around the world.
Professor Andrew J. Jolivétte of the Atakapa-Ishak Nation of Louisiana
(Tsikip/Opelousa/Heron Band) as well as the incoming chair of the UCSD ethnic studies 
department, spoke with The UCSD Guardian about his work in getting the minor approved 
and his personal hopes for its learning goals and objectives.
Upon his hire at UCSD as a senior scholar in 2019, Jolivétte noticed that the university 
offered many courses on native and indigenous studies and that there was a great amount of 
research being done on the subject matter. However, he felt that it was “important [to note]” 
that the university did not offer any type of undergraduate degree program in these topics,Accessed: 6/10/2020 Academic Senate Approves Minor in Native American and Indigenous Studies - UCSD Guardian
and subsequently decided to send the minor degree proposal  to the  Undergraduate Council.
“I think that a campus as focused on research [and] highly ranked [as UCSD] has to have …
native and indigenous studies programs,“ Jolivétte said. “[Setting up the minor] was  
essentially one of my main goals.”
Jolivétte then talked about the volume of support that his proposal received, specifically  
crediting ethnic studies Professor Ross H. Frank and Dr. Elena Hood, director of the  
Intertribal Resource Center, as “vital to these conversations.”
“[There was] a really broad range of folks and disciplines [that voiced their support for  
Jolivétte’s degree minor request] and I think it really speaks to the fact that Native 
American and indigenous studies touch so many different areas all across campus,” Jolivétte 
said.
“There is no area that can’t or should not be in contact with indigenous communities.”
In an email to The Guardian, Hood praised the new minor as “an incredible opportunity for  
our students and communities.”
“Native American students and prospective students benefit from seeing themselves  
represented and valued in the curriculum,” Hood said. “Non-Native students benefit from a  
more complete and accurate understanding of our society. The story of the United States is  
incomplete and erred when the stories of the original people, both historical and  
contemporary, are excluded.”
When asked by The Guardian about the type of work he anticipates students would be 
engaging in, Jolivétte said he hopes that the program can connect and collaborate with 
Native communities.
“I think what we really want to see with the minor … is affording students the opportunity 
academically to study this area … so that they can go back out to the communities and serve 
them,” Jolivétte said. “We also want these cultural programs to build stronger relationships 
with [Native communities] and center the wishes, knowledge of those communities [in] 
having a greater visibility and presence on campus.”
Specifically, he hopes students will assist in the existing work of the Intertribal Resource 
Center. Additionally, Jolivétte would like the program to include a local Native culture 
bearer in residence who shares the traditional knowledge of their community with students.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Academic Senate Approves Minor in Native American and Indigenous Studies - UCSD Guardian
Finally, Jolivétte shared his hopes that interested students come in with an open mind and  
have an “appetite and interest for seeing how this applies to their own majors.”
“This [minor] is for every student too, not just those who might be Native or indigenous …
because I think it helps many people augment their degrees,” Jolivétte said. “We welcome  
you and all of you who want to learn more [by taking] these courses and support this area of  
study.”
Effective Fall 2020, students may begin taking courses for the Native American and 
indigenous studies minor. Those interested in  academic advising for the minor are 
encouraged to reach out to Professor Andrew J. Jolivétte  by email at ajolivette@ucsd.edu.
Artwork by Yui Kita for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: A Detox from Reality - UCSD Guardian
 May 26, 2020   Tori Anderson 
I’m just going to start off by saying yes, this quarantine has been hard on me in some ways  
rather than others, so don’t judge because we are all human here. However, my main  
takeaway from my time in quarantine is realizing that I needed this time. I needed this time  
for myself, my thoughts and feelings, my eating habits, my school work, time away from  
work, and lastly needed time to catch a breath. I have been constantly  going nonstop since 
I was 16, to be completely honest. I overworked myself and gave myself away to others 
more than I gave time to myself. I continued this lifestyle through high school and 
community college, but especially during my first quarter at UC San Diego last Fall 2019. I 
overworked and stressed myself out so much that my mental health, along with my physical 
health, weakened. 
However, I learned and lessened my load for winter quarter, and then COVID-19 hit hard 
and we all got stuck in quarantine. I never really was worried about being in quarantine 
because I’m already so much of a homebody, but I knew a part of me was going to suffer 
because my one escape from all the craziness life brought to me was closed down —and yes,Accessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: A Detox from Reality - UCSD Guardian
I’m talking  about the gym. However, that is my escape, and it’s very therapeutic for me, so 
you can see  my worry. But what I will say now that we are now nine weeks in is: Quarantine, 
oh how I  needed you. Quarantine has not been easy, but it was definitely needed. While I 
know I always try to look on the positive side of every situation, I am going to give you an 
inside look  on my good days and my not so good ones.
Week 1:
I was excited to be home with my parents and the majority of my siblings. I had high hopes  
that I would still continue working out, eating healthy, and spending quality time with my  
family. I didn’t have to worry about commuting to school or work because my work closed  
down. I was going to keep my same schedule and fill the “free time” by spending time with  
family and reading more. I had high hopes for quarantine.
Week 2:
My grandma moved from Florida to my hometown, and while her house was being prepared  
for her, she had to stay with me and my parents. She was afraid of me bringing something  
into the house because I was going back and forth between my brother’s apartment and my  
parents’. Although my brother, his girlfriend, and I only hung out with each other, I  respected 
her concerns and moved into my brother’s apartment until she moved into her own  place. My 
family-filled quarantine was not looking like how I planned.
Week 3:
School was starting to stress me out because no matter how many countless hours I was 
studying for one of my classes, I was still doing poorly. However, I knew I wasn’t the only one 
because practically the whole class was failing, so it made me feel a little better, even though 
it shouldn’t have. My quarantine expectations were becoming false hopes. I could no longer 
see one of my sisters because she works for the jails, and she was at high risk. I would go to 
my parents once a week to see my dog, and it was not easy for me. My anxiety was abnormally 
high because of not being with my dog. However, I just tried to stick to my normal routine — 
better days to come.
Week 4: 
I went to visit my dog when she got into it with one of my parents’ dogs, and I decided it was 
best to take her back to San Diego where we were living before quarantine with one of myAccessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: A Detox from Reality - UCSD Guardian
other sisters. My sister and her husband were more than willing to take care of her for the  
time being. My mental health was starting to take the turn for the worse. I was eating more  
because I was in a funk and frankly bored. I knew this was bad, and I was falling back into a  
bad state. My anxiety was steadily increasing. I was getting anxiety attacks at the thought of  
sleep, so I would stay up until five in the morning doing homework or watching TV. I was  
scared to sleep. I was unmotivated to eat right and to workout. I was not okay, but better 
days to come.
Week 6-7:
I sat there one day beating myself up about school and how I let myself get into this funk  
when I realized I was just trying to fill voids that I didn’t want to acknowledge. The better  
days came. I let myself be in a funk for about two weeks. No matter what I did or tried,  
nothing helped. However, I started my normal routine from prior to quarantine. I started  
going on daily walks, worked out even when I didn’t feel like it, and reduced the unnecessary  
food. Slowly but surely I was getting back to my normal self. Then, tragedy hit and my  
brother’s apartment caught on fire from an old gas leak. Nothing was severely damaged, and  
no one was hurt. I realized that no matter what is going on, you can’t control life, but you can  
control your thoughts and actions — better days to come. 
Week 8:
I drove down to San Diego and spent the week with my dog. I focused on her and myself. My  
anxiety was lowering, and I was much happier. Being able to spend quality alone time with  
myself, my thoughts, and my dog brought this realization that I never really fixed my bad  
habits; I simply pushed them aside because I never had the time to fix them. I spent the week 
reading, working out, acknowledging when and why I choose to eat something not as healthy 
for me, and obviously doing homework. Day by day I am focusing on myself, and I have 
realized it is okay to be selfish.
My quarantine has been chaotic, but it has never stopped me from looking for positives out of 
every situation. I learned a lot about mental state during this time. I always pushed things to 
the side because I felt that I never had time to deal with them. This quarantine brought out 
the best and the worst of me, and that is okay. I took this time to heal and readjust to how I 
need to live. It is okay to fall off track, lose focus, and fail. All that matters is how you bounce 
back. Yes, I am summing up my quarantine chronicle in a positive light because there’s 
always light at the end of the tunnel —which I repeat to myself weekly. Quarantine will soon 
pass, and we will recover from the hard times. Most importantly, we will grow from what thisAccessed: 6/10/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: A Detox from Reality - UCSD Guardian
pandemic has taught us. Stay strong, as we are all in this together.
Photo by  THE 5TH on UnsplashAccessed: 6/10/2020 BREAKING: UCEAP Suspends All Fall Study Abroad Programs - UCSD Guardian
 May 26, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click  here.
The University of California Education Abroad Program has suspended all Fall 2020 study 
abroad programs due to concerns surrounding the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,  
according to The Daily Californian. This comes after UCEAP suspended it’s Spring and 
Summer 2020 programs earlier this year.
UCEAP had initially announced on May 20 that with a handful of exceptions, all of its Fall 
study abroad programs would continue as planned. However, the May 26 decision to 
suspend all programs was made in part to the information and recommendations provided 
to the university from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World 
Health Organization.Accessed: 6/10/2020 BREAKING: UCEAP Suspends All Fall Study Abroad Programs - UCSD Guardian
According to the article, students will not be charged cancellation or withdrawal fees.  
Additionally, some students may be able to transfer their applications for either the Spring 
or Fall 2021 terms. Students who had previously received financial aid for one of the 
suspended  programs will be contacted individually with further information.
Study Abroad UC San Diego has confirmed that students will not be charged any fees for 
programs which are  suspended pre-departure, and will be reimbursed any fees previously 
paid.
UCSD’s Global Seminars program, which is run separately from UCEAP, was also suspended  
for the 2020 term. Students interested in this program are encouraged to apply for the 2021  
term when the application goes live on November 1, 2020.
The UCSD Guardian has reached out to UC San Diego for comment. This is a breaking  
story, and The Guardian will continue to monitor it as it develops.
Photo courtesy of Thomas Melville for sdnews.com.Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Offers Short-Term Summer Residences to Students with Housing Insecurities - UCSD Guardian
 May 26, 2020   Daisy Scott 
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
UC San Diego will offer short-term on-campus housing for students facing housing 
insecurity due to the COVID-19 pandemic this summer from June 15 through September 5. 
Spring 2020 graduates, entering first year and transfer students, current undergraduate and 
graduate students, and international students are all eligible to apply. 
“We understand that there are students who may need flexible housing accommodations this 
summer,” the May 19 announcement email from UCSD Housing, Dining, and Hospitality
(HDH) read. “Some may choose to stay in San Diego while searching for jobs and graduate 
programs, while others may need to continue to reside on campus due to travel restrictions.”Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Offers Short-Term Summer Residences to Students with Housing Insecurities - UCSD Guardian
The summer housing application expands on this statement by clarifying that UCSD students  
should apply if they would otherwise face food and housing insecurities, personal safety risks,  
or be unable to continue learning on a virtual basis. Students may also apply if they are not  
able to travel to their homes, or are originally from an area greatly affected or threatened by  
COVID-19 outbreaks.
The application portal for the summer housing opened on May 18. The portal remains open  
with the condition that from June 10 onward, applying students need to provide at least three  
business days’ notice before their desired move-in date. Each student who applies for  housing 
will be required to sign a housing contract with the university in order to be accepted  and 
receive their move-in instructions. 
As of May 26, about 50 undergraduate and graduate students have expressed interest in the  
summer housing program. A representative from the university confirmed with The UCSD  
Guardian at the time of publication that students will be housed this summer in John Muir  
and Roger Revelle colleges, however if there is high enough demand additional dorms and  
residential areas will be opened. 
The UCSD Guardian interviewed Andrew Borell, a second year Earl Warren College student  
about his experiences with living on campus this quarter during the pandemic. 
“I’d honestly say living on campus right now is probably pretty similar to what it would be  like 
to live at home, me and [my roommate] are just cooped up all day, we only really leave to  get 
groceries,” Borell said. “One minor annoyance is that they’ve basically stopped stocking  the 
market except for a few things…They’ve also got the dining halls on rotation so only a  couple 
are open at once…Overall I’d say it’s been pretty much what I expected, and I don’t  have any 
major complaints about the way things are here.” 
According to the summer housing page on the  HDH website, students will pay $49 each night 
and sleep in their own rooms. However, these rooms will be part of campus housing’s shared 
apartment set-up, meaning that HDH will assign students to gendered housing, and that 
common areas, kitchens, and bathrooms will be shared by all occupants. Those students who 
may need financial aid are encouraged to fill out the university’s  basic needs assistance form. 
These shared areas will be cleaned by UCSD custodial staff on a weekly basis. The university 
also will continue with the preventative sanitation measures implemented in March, 
including disinfecting high-touch surfaces such as doorknobs on a regular basis, and 
employees wearing personal protective gear and practicing social distancing. Accessed: 6/10/2020 UCSD Offers Short-Term Summer Residences to Students with Housing Insecurities - UCSD Guardian
The website further clarifies that this short-term housing does not come with a required  
dining-plan. However, students will be able to access and receive meals from those dining  
halls and markets that remain open on campus. 
Those students interested in reading more or applying for the short-term summer housing 
program can do so here.
Photo by Mariyah Shad for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/10/2020 A.S. Announces Plans for Minority Caucus in Response to Recent Police Brutality and Inaction - UCSD Guardian
 May 28, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
The Executive Offices of Associated Students announced in a May 28 letter to the 
student body their intentions to develop a minority caucus within the Office of External 
Affairs in response to the murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor.
In the letter, A.S. President Kimberly Giangtran, Vice President of Campus Affairs Hannah 
Kreitman, and Vice President of  External Affairs Alisha Saxena expressed their collective 
frustrations over the recent incidents of police brutality and inaction  throughout the 
country.
“We continue to see that the arc of the moral universe does not bend towards justice for all, 
and that it continues to favor  white supremacy over racial equality,” the three wrote.
The letter continued on to state that A.S. will work to develop better relationships Black 
Resource Center, Black Student Union, and other groups which serve marginalized 
communities. Notably, the letter stated that the Office of External Affairs will work to 
develop a minority caucus to provide greater representation to the black community.Accessed: 6/10/2020 A.S. Announces Plans for Minority Caucus in Response to Recent Police Brutality and Inaction - UCSD Guardian
The letter concluded with a call to action, encouraging students to call Minneapolis Mayor Jacob 
Frey and Hennepin County  Attorney Mike Freeman to demand accountability for the murder of 
Floyd, which was commited by local police officer.  Likewise, the three encouraged students to 
participate in the BRC’s Virtual Intra-Community Space, which will feature Dr. Cat  Thompson 
from Counseling and Psychological Services. The event will be held via Zoom on Friday, May 29 
from 12-1 p.m.
While the UC San Diego administration had not made an official statement on the matter at the 
time of this article’s  publication, several resource centers and student organizations have. The 
LGBT Resource Center sent out an email on May 28  which also condemned the murders and 
called for students to attend the BRC’s event.
“The intersections of gender, race, sexuality, class, age, and documentation status can be places 
where traumas compound but  those intersections can also serve as powerful places for 
organizing,” the email stated.
The university administration later released a statement  on the matter, expressing their  
sympathies for the murders and denouncing racism.
“We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a 
country,” the statement read. “We  know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma 
caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination.  Collectively, let us continue to 
work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy,  
and community and collaborative efforts.”
Students interested in getting involved are encouraged to attend the BRC’s event. The A.S. 
Office of External Affairs stated in a follow up letter to The UCSD Guardian that students 
interested in learning more  about the minority caucus can fill out a google form using this  link.
Photo by Brendan Wilson for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated at 11:00 a.m. on May 29 to include a link for how to get involved with 
the minority caucus.
This article was updated at 2:45 p.m. on May 29 to include that the university made a 
statement on the murder after this  article’s publication.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board Statement on Recent Police Brutality and Inaction - UCSD Guardian
 May 29, 2020   Guardian Staff
With the recent police brutality and police inaction surrounding the murders of 
George  Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor,  we are again reminded of just 
how far our nation is from racial equity. This ongoing violence against the 
African American community draws up memories of the Compton Cookout, which took 
place at UC San Diego only ten years ago. This event served as a catalyst for our 
student body to come together and agree that racism should never be welcome on 
campus.
Unfortunately, UCSD remains an unwelcoming campus for many students from 
marginalized communities. Racist incidents such as anti-immigrant chalkings and the 
graffiting of swastikas outside of dorms continue to take place. In terms of 
representation and inclusion, only 2.6 percent of the student body identify as African 
American, an abysmal number considering the university’s commitment to diversity.
We stand in solidarity with all demonstrators––especially students––protesting against 
the racial injustice that has permeated all sectors of daily life.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board Statement on Recent Police Brutality and Inaction - UCSD Guardian
We stand in solidarity with all marginalized groups who continue to face prejudice and  
descriminantion.
We stand in solidarity with the journalists who are risking their lives and wellbeing  to 
cover these protests.
We stand in solidarity with the student resources centers both at UCSD and schools across  
America, who are tirelessly working to ensure a more equitable and safe campus  
environment for all students.
In solidarity, we encourage you to get involved in the fight for racial justice by any means 
you can. The Associated Students Office of External Affairs is developing a Minority 
Caucus, which can be found  here. The Black Resource Center  at UCSD hosts a number of 
programs and workshops which  serve to educate the student body on issues and fosters 
community for black students.  Organizations like the Minnesota Freedom Fund  are 
accepting donations to post bail for people of color who are unfairly incarcerated.
Black lives matter, and as a student newspaper we will continue upholding this message in 
every way possible.
Signed,
The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board:
Daisy Scott, Editor in Chief
Ranjani Shankar, Managing Editor
Jacob Sutherland, News Editor
Andrew Ha, News Editor
Geena Younger, Opinion Editor
Lara Sanli, Features Editor
In concurrence,
Jahfreen Alam, Arts and Entertainment Editor Tori Anderson, Staff Writer
Luke Burbidge, Multimedia Editor
Erin Chun, Arts and Entertainment Assistant Editor Colleen Conradi, Lifestyle Editor
Max Davis, Staff Writer
Jack Trent Dorfman, Sports Editor
Nelson Espinal, Senior Staff WriterAccessed: 6/10/2020 Editorial Board Statement on Recent Police Brutality and Inaction - UCSD Guardian
Saida Hassan, Design Editor 
Laura Hatanaka, Senior Staff Writer
Zara Irshad, Assistant Opinion Editor
Maddy León, Senior Staff Writer 
Daniel Li, Copy Editor
Annika Olives, Lifestyle Editor
Alex Rickard, Design Editor
Elías Román, Senior Staff Writer
Hannah Rosenberg, Staff Writer
Niloufar Shahbandi, Staff Writer
Anthony Tran, Art Editor
Natalie Tran, Senior Staff Writer
Troy Tuquero, News Editorial Assistant
Nancy Xu, Associate Media Editor
Steven Zhou, Senior Staff Writer
Graphic courtesy of Black Lives Matter.Accessed: 6/10/2020 Students Demand UCSD Change Finals Grading System In Light of Recent Police Brutality and Protests - UCSD Guardian
 May 30, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
UC San Diego students have begun an email drive to demand that the university adjust its 
grading policy for finals in light  of recent acts of police brutality and subsequent 
nationwide protests. The initiative has predominantly been advertised on Twitter, 
Instagram, and Facebook, with the emails to the UCSD Emergency  Operations Center and 
the A.S. Office of Academic Affairs calling for the university to modify its grading policy.
One UCSD Twitter user tweeted a thread which included a sample  letter  for students to  use 
when contacting the administration.
“Please do not force students that are paralyzed by the current events to disengage in their 
political environment,” the  sample letter states. “Please do not prioritize students’ exams 
over their mental and emotional health. Please do not force  students to choose their testing 
and grades over their obligations to protect and care about human rights … The Compton  
Cookout remains a dark stain of injustice and racism from the UCSD community; do not 
let this become another one. We must do better.”Accessed: 6/10/2020 Students Demand UCSD Change Finals Grading System In Light of Recent Police Brutality and Protests - UCSD Guardian
Alex de Leon, an Earl Warren College fifth year, spoke to The UCSD Guardian about the need 
for such a change to the finals grading system.
“In light of the current climate and systematic acts of violence towards the Black community, 
it would be entirely cruel and dehumanizing for us to expect our Black classmates at UCSD to 
have to carry on like everything’s good and normal,” de Leon said. “During these tragic and 
uncertain times, grades and finals should not have to be their top priority. 
De Leon went on to encourage students to participate in the email drive..
“Please fellow non-Black Tritons, show some compassion and show up for your Black friends 
when it counts — when it’s inconvenient for you,” de Leon said. “I am 100 percent for this 
movement and I am proud of members of the undergraduate student body fo removing past 
performative activism in favor of tangible action”
The university has already permitted departments to allow students to take courses within 
their major Pass/No Pass during Spring 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
However, this is not a universal policy and is subject to the approval of individual 
departments.
Hannah Legaspi, a Thurgood Marshall College second year, spoke to The UCSD Guardian 
about what motivated her to participate in the email drive.
“I personally have been exhausting so much energy simply using my platform, researching, 
donating, having hard conversations, empathizing, and grieving to even focus on my classes 
and have to catch up as we speak because the past week has been excruciating,” Legaspi said. 
“That is why I participated in the email thread, because if I, as a non-Black person of color, 
am already deeply affected, I cannot even imagine what Black students are going through 
right now and this is [a] way for me to support them, and myself, and stand in solidarity with 
the #BlackLivesMatter movement.”
quela
@micquelash
Sooo can someone start a petition or something for Black students at  
@UCSanDiego  (and other schools)? I don’t see how they expect us to 
focus and successfully study when Black people AT THIS VERY 
MOMENT are being harassed, murdered, ETC. all while mourning!!?
103 4:17 PM - May 29, 2020
56 people are talking about thisAccessed: 6/10/2020 Students Demand UCSD Change Finals Grading System In Light of Recent Police Brutality and Protests - UCSD Guardian
Neither the university nor A.S. have made official statements on the recent email drive. 
However, several students who sent  emails have received individual responses from A.S. 
Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs Adarsh Parthasarathy,  that includes offers to 
set up a Zoom session for students to express their opinions on the matter.
FRUITS OF OUR LABOR! HERE IS THE INFORMATION FOR TOMORROW'S ZOOM MEETING 
SUNDAY MAY 31, 2020 @ 12 PM
TOPIC: ADARSH PARTHASARATHY'S PERSONAL MEETING ROOM
JOIN ZOOM MEETINGHTTPS://T.CO/A16IOXYJMC
MEETING ID: 669 216 8554
PASSWORD: POIROT
FEEL FREE TO JOIN IF YOU CAN MAKE IT PIC.TWITTER.COM/NOLWWQFTET
— BLACK LIVES MATTER (@HNNHSOLO) MAY 31, 2020
Parthasarathy spoke with The UCSD Guardian about how initially there was some confusion 
with the amount of emails he had received, but became supportive after learning about the 
movement’s goals.
“I am amazed by the unity with which the student body responded to the terrible events that 
have occurred over the past week and I want to say that I am forcefully in support of the goal 
that my fellow students are after,” Parthasarathy said. “As of right now, I have been 
coordinating a set of asks for campus administration and the Department Chairs and have
reached out to the Dean of Undergraduate Education for an emergency meeting.”
Parthasarathy stated that he will continue to update students on his progress with reaching 
out to administration via Reddit and Twitter.6/10/2020 Students Demand UCSD Change Finals Grading System In Light of Recent Police Brutality and Protests - UCSD Guardian
A.S. VP of External Affairs Alisha Saxena told The UCSD Guardian that Associated Students is 
planning a meeting with the  students who have participated in the email drive “to ensure that 
the demands we send to administration meet their  requests.”
On Sunday, May 31, the A.S. Office of External Affairs released a resource  titled: “Black Lives 
ALWAYS Matter: A Legislative Action Guide Focused on Racial Justice,” which includes 
information on how to get involved with and educated on the broader black lives matter 
movement.
The university did release a statement on the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and 
Ahmaud Arbery on Friday,
May 29. The statement denounced the racist incidents and explained that the Office for Equity, 
Diversity, and Inclusion is developing a series of community conversations to “provide spaces for 
healing and identifying ways to be agents of change  in this moment.”
“We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a 
country,” the university’s statement reads. “We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and 
trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us 
continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, 
pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.”
Some students have argued that the university’s statement is not enough. David Nuñez, a third 
year John Muir College student, explained to The UCSD Guardian that more needs to be done to 
fully address the gravity of police brutality and the protests.
“While I appreciate UCSD as an institution standing in solidarity with Black communities at the 
moment, it’s important to remember that the UC System itself is also guilty of perpetuating 
police brutality,” Nuñez said. “Back in February, grad students protesting for COLA clashed with 
police employed by the [UC], resulting in some students being injured.”
Nuñez continued by saying that the best way to comprehensively address the situation is to uplift 
black students’ voices.
“I think the university should amplify the voices of Black communities who have been affected by 
police brutality in order to show solidarity with their students during this time period,” Nuñez 
said. “Additionally, I think the university should also highlight how racism has played a role in 
police brutality and its impact throughout the decades against Black and minorities of color.”Accessed: 6/10/2020 Students Demand UCSD Change Finals Grading System In Light of Recent Police Brutality and Protests - UCSD Guardian
The Executive Offices of Associated Students  released a statement in regards to the recent 
acts of police  brutality on Thursday, May 28 in which they announced their intention to create 
a minority caucus within the Office of  External Affairs. However, the letter has received some 
backlash for its phrasing, with several students claiming that it was  “sugar-coating” the recent 
acts of police brutality.
The UCSD Guardian reached out to the university and the Black Resource Center for 
comment on this story. This is a  breaking story and The UCSD Guardian will continue to 
monitor it as it develops.
Graphic by Jacob Sutherland for The UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated on at 2:00 p.m. on May 31 to include a resource put out by the A.S. 
Office of External Affairs.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego County Sunday Night Curfew Extended to UCSD Campus - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Lara Sanli
The San Diego County Sheriff’s Department has declared a countywide local emergency, 
and several cities across the County of San Diego have issued overnight stay-at-home 
orders in response to local protests, according to NBC San Diego . The curfew went into 
effect at 8 
p.m. this evening and will last through 5:30 a.m. on Monday morning. Chancellor Khosla  
has since announced that the curfew is extended to UC San Diego campus.
Beyond campus, the curfew took effect in La Mesa, Poway, Santee, Coronado, El Cajon, 
Lemon Grove, National City, areas around Spring Valley, and areas from Lakeside north to 
Poway. All law and fire enforcement, medical personnel, and members of the press are 
exempt. Those traveling directly to and from work, seeking emergency care, fleeing 
dangerous circumstances, or experiencing homelesness are also exempt.
Protesters throughout the country, including the County of San Diego, have been 
demonstrating for justice and racial equity since the murder of George Floyd on Monday,Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego County Sunday Night Curfew Extended to UCSD Campus - UCSD Guardian
May 25. Protests in San Diego were exacerbated by a recent  video of police brutality when  
authorities arrested a black man in La Mesa.
“The Sheriff’s Department and all law enforcement agencies in San Diego county stand  
united in supporting the public’s right to express their anger and frustration over the death 
of Mr. George Floyd through peaceful protests,” the Sheriff Department’s order reads.
“However, when those demonstrations turn violent and threaten life and property, law  
enforcement must act to restore safety in our communities.”
San Diego Sheriff
@SDSheriff
A curfew order has been issued by @SDSheriff  for some 
unincorporated areas of #SanDiegoCounty .  All residents in these 
areas are urged to stay home, indoors and off the streets.  We thank 
the public for their cooperation.
According to the Times of San Diego  banks and stores in La Mesa were  looted and burned  
between Saturday evening  and Sunday morning. Sheriff’s deputies tear gassed protesters 
around the police station. 
On Sunday, San Diego police officers also  used tear gas and flash-bang grenades  against  
protestors in the Broadway area due to what a SD Police Department tweet described   as 
“an escalation of  violence by the protestors.” Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego County Sunday Night Curfew Extended to UCSD Campus - UCSD Guardian
According to the statements, residents in the affected areas who violate the curfew’s orders  
are guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $1,000, six months in jail, or both. 
Chancellor Khosla announced a precautionary curfew in response to the county order. 
San Diego Police Department
@SanDiegoPD
Unlawful assembly order being given in the area of Broadway. We are 
asking everyone to disperse immediately due to the escalation of  
violence by the protestors.
503 3:19 PM - May 31, 2020
410 people are talking about this
Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego County Sunday Night Curfew Extended to UCSD Campus - UCSD Guardian
“As a precaution, it makes sense to expand our non-affiliates curfew to match the County  
Order,” the notice reads. “Currently, we have a curfew on non-affiliates on campus from  
midnight to 6am. We are proposing expanding that curfew to begin at 8 pm this evening 
and ending at 6am tomorrow morning. Please note this curfew is applicable to non-affiliates 
only. Thank you.”
In an Instagram post, Associated Students explained that the curfew does not apply to  
employees or students of the university, and that the term “non-affiliates” refers to other  
friends or guests on campus. A UCSD press release  says that campus is  authorized to 
impose curfew on non-affiliates “to protect the safety of the UC San Diego  community.”
This is a breaking story and The UCSD Guardian has contacted the university and  
members of Associated Students for further comment. 
This article was updated at 10:20 p.m. to include the UCSD press release on campus  
curfew.
Photo courtesy of Patrick Lazo for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Comic-Con 2020 - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Natalie Tran  
With San Diego Comic-Con 2020 canceled due to COVID-19 concerns, UCSD students 
who had planned to attend share their thoughts.
For the first time since its inception 51 years ago, San Diego Comic-Con has been canceled. 
The official statement, released April 7, cited “COVID-19 concerns” that deemed the annual 
fan convention unsafe. 
While many other festivals and concerts have been canceled and postponed, SDCC’s 
cancellation presents the largest blow to the San Diego region. It is estimated that the 
event, the largest  fan convention in the world, brings in $147 million for the local economy 
each year. 
For students at UC San Diego, the cancellation of the event hits close to home, literally. 
The UCSD Guardian interviewed 10 students who were planning to go to SDCC 2020. 
Almost all were not surprised by the news of its cancellation. After the cancellations of 
similar events like WonderCon and Anime Expo, the students agreed “it was only a matterAccessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Comic-Con 2020 - UCSD Guardian
of time” before SDCC made its own announcement.
The students shared some of their original plans for the convention. Many had looked  
forward to attending panels, looking at cosplayers, browsing Artist Alley, and shopping for  
collectibles. Others had been excited to meet friends, families, and fellow fans.
“Being from San Diego, I always think it’s so cool to be able to have everyone come and enjoy  
the city, knowing that some of the greatest artists of our time are hanging out downtown,”  
Thurgood Marshall College junior Melina Renoso said.
Half of the interviewees had planned to cosplay, some for the first time. A few interviewees  
shared pictures of their cosplays they planned to wear, including “Dude Vader,” Spider-Man,  
and an AT-AT walker:
Class of ’69 UCSD alumni Christopher Canole’s “Dude Vader” cosplay.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Comic-Con 2020 - UCSD Guardian
Declan Sullivan’s Spider-Man cosplay.
Declan Sullivan’s AT-AT cosplay.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Comic-Con 2020 - UCSD Guardian
Nonetheless, the event’s cancellation dashed several students’ plans.
“This is the only time I get to hang out with only my brothers. It’s our yearly retreat, and now  
that won’t happen,” John Muir College junior Emily Lazcano said. “My biggest  
disappointment is not being able to see my con family. These are people from all over the  
world that you hang out with only at the con.”
Other students were saddened to miss the chance to see their favorite stars. “This year has a  
lot of shows in their final seasons or movies that are ending,” Reynoso said. “I was looking  
forward to watching the panels and seeing the casts say goodbye.”
Three interviewees had planned to volunteer or work at the event, but their positions were  
unfortunately affected by the cancellation. While it may be a fun, temporary job for some, its  
loss can be critical in a time when students’ other jobs are already in jeopardy.
“I’m worried about my summer income and how small it probably will be because I won’t  
have this job and will be basically unable to work my other job as a campus tour guide,”  
admitted Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Wiley Bowen, who had planned to work for a  
fourth year at the convention.
Other concerns with the cancellation were raised, primarily regarding its economic impact. 
Students acknowledged the negative fiscal effects on local businesses and workers, as well as  
cosplayers, artists, and other creatives dependent on conventions for exposure and sales. 
Some even pointed out their concerns for Comic-Con itself, worrying that the popular 
convention will move out of San Diego once its contract with the San Diego Convention 
Center ends. Others were disappointed about missing out on their last opportunity to attend 
while still living in San Diego.
Despite these concerns and disappointments, students agreed that the cancellation was 
necessary. 
“It’s a time of community and unity for all geeks, and I’m going to greatly miss it this year,” 
Lazcano said. “But the safety of everyone outweighs a few days of fun.”
Some students, like Sixth College junior Declan Sullivan, reasoned that the convention could 
move online, negating the need for an in-person event. “Certain things can be released 
online to some capacity, so there’s no point in having events that could just worsen the 
situation we’re already in,” Sullvian said.Accessed: 6/11/2020 San Diego Comic-Con 2020 - UCSD Guardian
Another anonymous student suggested that “a potential upside to all of this is that it’s likely  
brought more people into online fandom.”
When asked about their hopes and concerns for next year’s Comic-Con, students voiced  
different opinions. Some were eager to reunite and celebrate with others, hoping for an even  
bigger and better event. Others were worried that the potential for spreading the virus was  
still possible and that attendees would remain fearful of one another and “cause fights at the  
con.”
Regardless, all the students hoped to attend San Diego Comic-Con in 2021, if possible. In the  
meantime, they will continue working on cosplays, saving money, catching up on comics, 
and concentrating on other activities.  “We will return to the San Diego Convention Center 
July 22 – 25, 2021,”  the official Comic-Con website  reads.
Art by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Sexism In Media Consumption - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Hanaa Moosavi  
It’s about time gender equality in the film industry becomes a reality and not just a pipe  
dream.
It’s no secret that the film industry uses gender stereotypes. Many companies cater their 
films to a specific gender or group of people. Now, although the film industry has made 
strides toward equality, it’s still not enough. This becomes very evident in “Birds of Prey,” a 
spinoff film about Harley Quinn and her life after separating from the Joker. When “Birds of 
Prey” was released, critics and film fanatics flocked to their computers to rip apart the film 
in their reviews. Reviews compared box office numbers of “Suicide Squad” to “Birds of Prey,” 
calling the Quinn spinoff a case of “go woke, go broke.” To somebody who hasn’t seen “Birds 
of Prey” yet, it might seem like the movie flopped dramatically, even worse than its mother 
film “Suicide Squad;” this, however, was not the case. 
“Birds of Prey” scored a whopping 51 percent more on Rotten Tomatoes then “Suicide 
Squad,” earning a ‘fresh’ rating. Unfortunately, the box office numbers did not reflect this. 
While “Suicide Squad” managed to earn $746.8 million at the box office, “Birds of Prey” only Accessed: 6/11/2020 Sexism In Media Consumption - UCSD Guardian
earned $201.9 million. This red flag — the juxtaposition between box office numbers and 
ratings — actually tells how little the film industry cares about advertising films about strong  
female leads.
By promoting the movie with a ‘soft’ release overseas, “Birds of Prey” crashed at the box  
office. “Suicide Squad” received $75 million in campaign fees while “Birds of Prey” only  
received $6.94 million. That $68.06 million difference alone should clue viewers on the bias  
in how the comic book franchise markets their specific movies. Looking at the numbers  
alone, production studios seem to tailor their promotions towards movies that their male-
dominated audience has historically shown a liking towards — male-centric superhero films.
“Birds of Prey” is not the only women-lead film that has faced this type of backlash regardless  
of its high ratings. In 2017, “Wonder Woman” was released and quickly attracted negative  
publicity despite landing high ratings. Men branded the film “feminist propaganda” and  
flooded Rotten Tomatoes, sprinkling in horrible reviews and ratings of the film. One man  
even praised the film, but still gave it one star. In 2019, “Captain Marvel” was released and  
became a boiling pot of negative user reviews on Rotten Tomatoes, containing some reviews  
by people who hadn’t even seen it. Many viewers were blasting Brie Larson, accusing her of  
being sexist against all men. One man, Dann M., even says that Larson, although providing a  
decent performance, clearly appears to be doing a Tony Stark imitation. Dann even went as  
far as raving about Samuel L. Jackson, Jude Law, and Djimon Hounsou, Larson’s male  
supporting cast members. This is from a four-star review of the film, and yet still bashes the  
main character of the movie. Based on these reviews, the comic book franchise learns that  
their audience dislikes superhero films revolving around women. When female-positive  
content is released, it seems as though men expect female-lead films to fail or end up terribly  
produced.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Sexism In Media Consumption - UCSD Guardian
This type of market tailoring happens with all films, not just in the comic book franchise. In  
an annonymous survey taken across different organizations on the UC San Diego campus,  
87.5 percent of students believe that certain films and film genres are marketed towards  
certain genders. Another question revealed that although 84.6 percent of students said that  
they would go see a movie about sexism or the female experience, around 84.2 percent of  
students said there was a stigma around what types of shows and movies a person could 
watch; for example, a guy should stay away from romantic comedies and women should 
stick to drama. When students say they would be open to watching movies that are female-
led, how likely will those students go and support the films that perpetuate a negative 
stigma against them?Accessed: 6/11/2020 Sexism In Media Consumption - UCSD Guardian
One student said, “According to common mentality, guys definitely stay away from romantic  
comedies and lean towards more raunchy stuff. Stereotypes also generally have girls  watching 
romantic comedies because they’re simp-y or boy-crazy.” Another student wrote,  “[Films are] 
more skewed towards male-presenting people encouraged to only look to  masculine coded 
characters, [while] female-presenting people are expected to be fine with  both male and 
female protagonists on the whole.” 
This type of thinking, in which women can be comfortable with watching any type of movie  
while men shouldn’t feel comfortable watching a movie about female struggle or a movie  
centered around women, has a great impact on how society views media consumption. Once  
this thinking is cycled through one generation, generation after generation thereafter will  
soon perpetuate the idea that men and women are divided. The only way to alleviate this  
cycle is if the film industry makes more of an effort to promote female-lead and male-lead  
films equally and recruit more women to create a more diverse range of content. To break the  
chain of sexism in media consumption, the film industry must change the way they view  
female-lead content.
Image courtesy of Comic Book MovieAccessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Justin Cho
Arts and Entertainment writer Justin Cho shares some anime favorites that are aimed 
at an older audience.
The other day I asked my little brother what anime he’s heard of. He knows nothing 
about anime, but he was still able to name popular shows like “Naruto,” “My Hero 
Academia,” and “Death Note.” These, as well as many other massively popular shows this 
decade, have something in common: they’re categorized as Shounen, a genre targeted 
towards a young demographic. Our cultural perception of anime is composed largely of 
the latest hot Shounen shows and Studio Ghibli films, and while there is absolutely 
nothing wrong with this style of entertainment, it may alienate viewers that are looking 
for something else. In order to expose sides of the medium that aren’t largely explored by 
the mainstream, here is a list of anime that are aimed at an older audience, whether it be 
through subject matter, presentation, or nuance of ideas.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
Rakugo is a traditional form of Japanese storytelling in which a single performer — referred  
to as a rakugoka — recites a narrative using only a fan and towel as props. It is up to the  
rakugoka to act as every single character by themselves, using only inflection in voice and  
body language to differentiate characters for the audience. It is a time-honored art where  
clarity, attention to detail, and personal flair separates the good from the great. “Shouwa  
Genroku Rakugo Shinjuu” is about the old, unrepresented world of rakugo.
The show begins by following a criminal who has just been let out of prison. Straight out of  
bars, this man wishes to leave the life of crime and become a rakugoka, so he goes straight to  
Yakumo Yuurakutei, a master of rakugo who had inspired the criminal in jail. Yakumo  
decides to take on the man and gives him the new name Yotaro. The show is about both 
Yotaro’s journey learning rakugo, and Yakumo’s past struggles in WWII and his own love of 
rakugo. The show deals with talent, sacrifice, empathy, and the wish to hold onto an old, 
dying artform. It’s a shame that many people are turned away from this show simply because 
they don’t know anything about this old, Asian form of storytelling. Most come in knowing 
nothing and come out entranced by the nuanced characters, smart writing, and cinematic 
directing. Despite the show’s relatively low popularity in the West, it has received 
overwhelming positive feedback from fans and critics alike. The show’s second season is 
currently the 26th highest rated anime on MyAnimeList and was around 16th right after it 
aired. At the risk of sounding pretentious, what strikes me most about the show is how 
incredibly mature the atmosphere feels. Everything from the shot composition, dialog, 
soundtrack, and artstyle feels very intentional. It pains me to see how many people skip over 
this beautifully crafted show, and I urge anybody, even those who hate anime, to check this 
one out.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
This 2011 adaptation of Takako Shimamura’s popular Seinen manga follows transexual  
middle schooler Shuuichi Nitori who was born biologically male. Nitori fortunately has a  
group of friends who understand her, especially Yoshino Takatsuki, a friend who was born  
female but also does not identify with her assigned sex. Together, these friends grow as they  
enter puberty, deal with love and friendship, and explore their gender identity. Utilizing a  
light, watercolor-like artstyle, this adorable slice-of-life drama explores sides of the LGBTQ  
discussion that aren’t very common in anime. While the story does contain some juvenile 
drama, the mature, largely underrepresented ideas in this show make it deserving of 
exposure in my eyes and lands it a spot in this list.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
“Samurai Champloo” is a brilliant blend of samurais, hip hop, and counter-cultural ideas.  
The debut work of Studio Manglobe and the second series directed by Shinichiro Watanabe,  
creator of the 1998 masterpiece “Cowboy Bebop,” “Samurai Champloo” follows Mugen, Jin,  
and Kasumi’s journey through Edo period Japan. Music is the beating heart of this show; the  
striking Western and Eastern fusion aesthetic pairs perfectly with the show’s amazing hip  
hop inspired soundtrack, and even the story arcs are designed to resemble a double LP vinyl  
record. The show’s soundtrack and musical motifs are a large part of why this show is still  
loved by many, and they were made possible with the help of Nujabes. Nujabes is a Japanese  
hip-hop legend who is famous for pioneering the popular LoFi hip hop genre that many still  
use to study and simp to today. Samurai Champloo is still largely associated with LoFi, and  
it’s why the genre is still often associated with anime imagery, like in the famous 24 hour  
YouTube LoFi stream. The show’s hip hop background has made it immensely popular in the  
West as well, making contributions to our hip hop culture and even inspiring many Western  
pieces such as the 2005 cartoon, “The Boondocks.” “Samurai Champloo” is a must watch if  
you’re a fan of anime or LoFi hip-hop. Accessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
“Serial Experiments Lain” (Studio Triangle Sta ,
1998)
“Serial Experiments Lain” is a cult classic anime from 1998 that was the brainchild of  
producer Yasuyuki Ueda, director Ryuutaro Nakamura, writer Chiaki Konaka — who is one of  
my personal favorite writers — and character designer Yoshitoshi Abe. The show is an  
allegory about the internet and how it will evolve. Some fascinating thoughts suggested  
include the idea that the internet will become not only a tool we use to communicate, but  
rather itself a layer of our reality: a layer that keeps everyone connected and a layer whose  
boundaries between it and “reality” will become vague. Those who we’re friends with online  
will eventually become indistinguishable from those we know in person. The show was very  
much ahead of its time, having a solid vision of the internet as far back as 1998. Despite its  
age, the piece is constantly revisited and studied, as many of its thoughts were very indicative  
of how the internet has developed to this day and may develop into the future. The themes  
and messages are also kept fascinating by the show’s abstract style signature of writer Chiaki  
Konaka. “Show don’t tell” is a philosophy you could use to describe the show’s presentation,  
as there is barely any dialog and the show presents many of its messages through abstract  
imagery and tone, sometimes to the point where certain scenes are completely  
incomprehensible without the subtext. If you watch this show with your brain off on a Friday  
night to relax, you may find yourself having no clue as to what’s going on, but if you’re into 
symbolic art pieces that people have written novel-length analysis pieces on, this show is for 
you. Accessed: 6/11/2020 Justin’s Anime Recommendations for Older Audiences - UCSD Guardian
Produced by Studio Madhouse in 2007 during the studio’s golden age before Masao  
Maruyama left, the show follows Ito Kaiji, a gambling addict who finds himself unemployed  
and stuck with a life that has hit rock bottom. After receiving an exorbitant debt from his old  
coworker, Kaiji is tricked into entering the brutal world of illegal underground gambling.  
Original manga author Nobuyuki Fukumoto has a way of coming up with the most wild,  
creative gambling scenarios that force his desperate, deranged, and horridly unlikeable  
characters to their psychological limit. The TV series makes amazing use of the blueprints  
that the manga left behind, cranking up the intensity and atmosphere with its shot  
composition, soundtrack, and unmistakably unique artstyle. Every scene feels heavy and  
makes you feel like you’re burning calories by just watching them. Animation director  
Takuda Haruhito did an amazing job translating Fukumoto’s distinct visual style into  
animation, giving the world a gritty, aged look and adding thick outlines that further  
highlight the intense atmosphere. The visual aesthetic is one of the biggest turnoffs for many  
because it’s just so different, but after overcoming this, you can experience one of the most  
creative, engaging, and sometimes painfully intense experiences in anime.
Images courtesy of Youtube, Anime B&B-Wordpress.com, IMDb, Frameland, simkl.com
Art by Angela Liang, Alex Liang, Allyson Llacuna, Yui Kita, Susan Sun for the UCSD 
Guardian.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Ways To Support the Black Lives Matter Movement - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Guardian Staff
Police brutality and police inaction led to the recent murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud 
Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and many more innocent  black folx. In light of these events, we 
decided to compile a list of ways to show support for and take action toward the Black 
Lives Mattermovement. This is by no means a comprehensive list; if you know of any 
resources that you’d like us to add, please email us at  lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org. 
Justice For George Floyd  
Justice for George
Justice for Breonna Taylor 
Justice For Ahmuad Aubrey  
Justice for Tony McDad e 
Julius Jones
Justice For Tamir Rice 
Justice for SeanAccessed: 6/11/2020 Ways To Support the Black Lives Matter Movement - UCSD Guardian
Justice for Amiya Braxton 
Justice For Emerald Black  
Free Chrystul Kizer  
Exonerate Eric Riddick  
Pass Georgia Hate Crime Bill  
Hands Up Act  
She Safe, We Safe
Black Lives Matter 
Educational Texts on Becoming an Ally
Find Your Local BLM Chapter
Anti-Racism Resources Document
Twitter Thread of Book Recommendations from Black  
Activists “The problem with saying ‘All Lives Matter’”
Bail Funds for Cities and State
Memorial Funds for Victims
Reclaim the Block  
Humanities Behind Bars
Black Visions Collective
North Star Health Collective
Black Lives Matter Fund  
Loveland Therapy Fund
NAACP Legal Defense Fun
National Police Accountability Project
Campaign Zero
Ways to Take Action if You Cannot Donate
26 Ways to Be in the Struggle Beyond the Streets  
Fight For Breonna
#blacklivesmatter Document
Actions for George Floyd Document  
Campaign ZeroAccessed: 6/11/2020 Ways To Support the Black Lives Matter Movement - UCSD Guardian
Incorporating Healing and Wellness into Direct Action  African 
American Mental Health | National Alliance on Mental Illness 
Crisis Text Line – text HOME to 741741  
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
Tips/Guidelines and Resources for Protestors  
Know Your Rights  
For Protesters Document
Black Resource Center
Black Student Union at UCSD  
A.S. Minority Caucus and Task Force  
Photo by  Julian Wan  on UnsplashAccessed: 6/11/2020 Multiple Students Report Racist Zoom-Bombing in A.S. Conversation on Potential Adjustments to Finals Grading Policy - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
A number of students have reported that an open Associated Students virtual discussion 
on potential adjustments to finals  grading policy was “Zoom-bombed” by several users who 
yelled racial slurs on Sunday, May 31.
The meeting was held by A.S. Vice President of Academic Affairs Adarsh Parthasarathy in 
response to the May 30 email  drive held to demand that UCSD change its finals grading 
system in light of recent acts of police  brutality and protests.
Accessed: 6/11/2020 Multiple Students Report Racist Zoom-Bombing in A.S. Conversation on Potential Adjustments to Finals Grading Policy - UCSD Guardian
A number of students have corroborated on Twitter that several users entered the meeting 
and started yelling racial slurs  targeted towards black students. It is unclear whether or not 
these users were UC San Diego students.
Parthasarathy shut down the Zoom call shortly after and took to  Twitter to address the 
situation.
“Our Zoom call was Zoombombed by racists,” Parthasarathy wrote. “I take full responsibility 
for this as the organizer and  cannot apologize enough. I am going to do my best to correct the 
security settings for the call so that nothing as disgusting  as that ever happens again.”
Parthasarathy began a second Zoom call later this afternoon, which required users to be using 
a UC San Diego Zoom  account to enter.
A.S. Vice President of External Affairs forwarded to The UCSD Guardian a petition for 
students to sign to demand that Zoom create a concrete solution to protect users from racist 
cyber attacks like the one that happened during the May 31 meeting.
At the time of this article’s initial publication, the university has not yet addressed students’ 
concerns surrounding the final  grading system nor the Zoom-bombing. However, both the 
university and Associated Students have released separate  statements on the recent acts of 
police brutality and protests.
The Executive Offices of Associated Students, joined by Parthasarathy, Vice Chancellor of 
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Becky Petitt, and Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Alysson 
Satterlund in a  joint statement  to address the Zoom-bombing after this article’s  publication.
“We apologize to every member of the community affected by the acts of hate that occurred 
during the Zoom call, and how they may have impacted members of the Black community at 
UC San Diego,” the statement read. “We want the Black community at UC San Diego to know 
that we will not stop fighting for everything that was discussed on the call in order to show, 
through action, how important their contributions were today.”
Additionally, the A.S. Office of External Affairs released a resource  earlier on May 31 titled: 
“Black Lives ALWAYS Matter: A Legislative Action Guide Focused on Racial Justice,” which 
includes information on how to get involved with and educated on the broader black lives 
matter movement.This is a breaking story, and The UCSD Guardian will continue to monitor it as it develops.
Photo courtesy of Zoom via MGN.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Multiple Students Report Racist Zoom-Bombing in A.S. Conversation on Potential Adjustments to Finals Grading Policy - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/11/2020 PC PRINCESS: Balancing Concrete Policy and Identity Representation - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Jacob Sutherland 
In this article, News Editor Jacob Sutherland discusses the need for individuals to demand  
both identity representation and tangible policy measures from their political candidates.
Around the summer of 2019, I remember seeing various tweets which followed the logic of: 
“If you don’t support Mayor Pete in this election then you’re not a good gay.” I was very 
much taken aback by this. At the time, the South Bend mayor had not even put out a 
concrete plan to accomplish any major policy goals, let alone to address problems within the 
LGBTQ community.
Despite this, there was a vocal portion of the gay population who disregarded Senator 
Bernie Sanders’ 50-plus years of supporting the queer community and Senator Elizabeth 
Warren’s plans to address issues within the community in favor of an inexperienced 
politician whose only redeeming feature at the time was his sexual orientation. This was 
done essentially in blatant disregard for tangible progress in favor of symbolic 
representation.Accessed: 6/11/2020 PC PRINCESS: Balancing Concrete Policy and Identity Representation - UCSD Guardian
Identity politics fuels the ambitions of many candidates, ranging from the lowest stakes  
elections like Associated Students, all the way up to the presidency. And by some metrics,  
this is not a bad thing. The United States’ foundation is rooted in the exclusion of minorities  
from the political world, especially for women and people of color. Seeing headlines like “A  
record number of women are running for the House this year” inspires those who have been 
traditionally left out of politics.
However, the danger of identity politics comes when policy proposals, or in some cases a lack  
thereof, are overlooked in favor of one’s personal background. Seeing an openly queer person  
running as the Democratic nominee for president would have been such an inspiring thing to  
see as a gay person. But the reason I personally did not vote for the only openly gay candidate  
during the primary was because other candidates had policy proposals that would help the  
queer community a million times more than simply having a queer figurehead with no  
substantial policy goals in office.
We have to find a balance between identity and policy if we are going to move forward into an  
era of maintaining a truly representative democracy. A common argument from those who  
discount the value of representation in its entirety follows: “white men are just better at  
politics because they have more experience.” This of course is nonsense, but is still an  
argument we must push past to achieve a healthy balance of identity and policy.
UC Santa Barbara social psychologist Brenda Major’s research suggests that the best way to 
have someone overcome their insecurities with  running for office is to go ahead and ask them 
to run. While Major’s work predominantly focuses on women, this principle can be applied to 
anyone — one of the greatest barriers to running is simply feeling that you are not confident 
in your own capabilities.
If we want to see a healthy balance of identity and policy, we must actively seek out those 
who share both our identities and our policy priorities and ask them to run. This may not be 
as practical for nationwide races like the presidency. That said, we all likely know someone 
personally who shares these characteristics and would be an amazing addition to A.S. 
Council, the local city council, or even the state legislature. And with a little introspection, 
whose to say we can’t ask ourselves to run and advocate for the policies we believe in while 
providing the representation we long for?
I encourage you all to approach politics through this lens of balance. We certainly can have 
our cake and eat it too, but we must be the ones to go visit the bakery and select a cake whichAccessed: 6/11/2020 PC PRINCESS: Balancing Concrete Policy and Identity Representation - UCSD Guardian
meets all of our intersecting priorities in the first place.
Art by UCSD Guardian artist Kyoko Downey. Accessed: 6/11/2020 My Experience as a Student Worker Working Remotely - UCSD Guardian
My Experience as a Student Worker Working Remotely
 May 31, 2020   Veronica Menendez 
As Spring Quarter comes to an end, I can’t help but look back on my experience of 
working my campus job remotely. In February 2020, I began working as a front desk 
worker at the  office of the Muir College Writing Program, also known as MCWP. My 
duties included  greeting students or visitors and providing them assistance with any 
questions they had,  providing office support to the instructors and staff, and assisting with 
data entry of excel sheets, word documents, and more. With all the duties assigned to me, 
I had to be very confidential since I was handling documents with staff and student 
information. Including me, three student workers in total worked the front desk in order 
to cover the entire time the office was open for the week. I was lucky that both my co-
workers were the friendliest people and made my transition into the job much easier. 
When news came that the school would be closing down, there was much uncertainty on 
whether the office would remain open. During those last days of Winter Quarter, I 
stressed out about the uncertainty of my job, figured out how my online finals worked, and 
worried about the impending pandemic. Once the news came that Spring Quarter wasAccessed: 6/11/2020 My Experience as a Student Worker Working Remotely - UCSD Guardian
going to be  completely online, I was stuck between going back home or staying in San Diego 
to work limited hours at the office — if it remained open. Luckily, my boss was able to keep all 
three  of us working from the comforts of our home. However, because we were no longer in 
the office, our hours were cut, but we were given special COVID-19 admin hours that could be  
added onto our time card as hours we would have worked if we were in the office. We were  
then required to download many programs onto our computer in order to access the MCWP  
files. Such programs included Microsoft applications and Google Drive file stream, which  
greatly impacted the iCloud storage on my Macbook. Plus, because I was still technically new,  
I was still learning how the files were organized and where documents were placed — adding  
another challenge to the process. It was a lengthy process to get the newly downloaded  
programs to work on my Macbook as well as getting access to MCWP software. I found  myself 
having to email Information Technology services at least 20 times. 
Microsoft Teams was the platform we used to communicate about what we each did on the  
day we worked; we called it our Daily Reports. I was scheduled to work Mondays and  
Wednesdays, and I started my day by calling my boss to receive instructions on what I was to  
work on during my shift. Until I was able to resolve my technical issues, my duties were fairly  
easy going. I worked on data entry that involved information about Spring 2020 logistics and  
planning for Fall 2020. I honestly never realized how much work and how many documents  
are required when planning a course. After days of talking back and forth with IT services, I  
was able to work with no problems. We even got a new project to work on: all three of us  
student workers would be given access to the Virtual Advising Center to assist with the  
plethora of incoming questions from students regarding MCWP. We were trained and given  
instructions on how to respond to students. 
I can honestly say that working from home has its perks. I would wake up 45 minutes before 
my shift, drink a cup of coffee with sweet bread, and work in the comfort of sweats and a 
baggy t-shirt. Working from home saves a lot of travel time and I can use that time to my 
liking. And, because I am at home, I’m grateful my mom cooks us breakfast, which beats my 
usual cereal. 
Yet, working from home can definitely have its stressful moments. Many times I suffered 
from lack of a good wifi signal, either because my family was using the wifi at the same time 
or the reception wasn’t good, which happens a lot in my area. This made me nervous about 
not being able to complete my assigned tasks and scared of being perceived as a bad worker. 
The constant back and forth communication between my boss and other co-workers 
definitely helped me manage work that was still new to me because I didn’t get a chance to 
fully learn the ropes of the job. However, even before I started working remotely, I was veryAccessed: 6/11/2020 My Experience as a Student Worker Working Remotely - UCSD Guardian
stressed out about all that I needed to do and download in order to have the right tools to  
work. It became another stressor aside from planning my Spring 2020 courses. I felt that I  
was doing a lot of work in order to do my job and because it took a long time for things to  
work properly for me, I secretly hoped my boss and co-workers wouldn’t view me as ‘holding  
back’ the workflow. But I would remind myself that because I was new, it was ok to make  
mistakes and ask questions. 
My experience of working remotely was certainly illuminating and revealing to me. I liked the  
comfort of working from my bedroom and not having the stresses of a “real-life” work  
environment. I did enjoy the extra time to sleep in because I didn’t have to get up early and  
ride the bus to campus. But it was also challenging and stressful for me. The fear of not doing  
something correctly and letting people down loomed over me on each shift, increasing my  
anxiety of trying to be a good worker. I also experienced technical issues that were hard to  
solve and were a lengthy process to get them resolved. But I learned that constant  
communication with your co-workers and boss most definitely helps things run smoothly. I’ll  
honestly say that I sort of missed being in a “real-life” work environment. Working remotely  
may be viewed as easier since it is done from home, but I stress that it also has its challenges.  
Fortunately, little by little, I am learning the ropes of the job remotely — with some help, of  
course.
Photo by Nick Morrison  on UnsplashAccessed: 6/11/2020 The Tale of Two Knees - UCSD Guardian
The Tale of Two Knees
 May 31, 2020  Hayden Wellbeloved 
Just days after George Floyd was tragically killed by a Minneapolis police officer, nationwide  
protests and unrest has flooded streets, cities, and even reached the White House. This is not  
the first time an innocent African American has been murdered by a white police officer or  
racist white person, and it is not the second or third. Over the past decade or so the  
devastating killings of black people have unfortunately been brushed aside and received no  
justice or punishment, even as media coverage has seemingly increased. 
We do not have to go back more than a few weeks to remember when Ahmaud Arbery was 
brutally hunted down and murdered. Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Botham Jean, Philando 
Castile, and Breona Taylor are also all African Americans who were murdered in cold blood— 
this list could go on and on. 
Many have seen the heartbreaking footage of Floyd being suffocated to death pleading for 
help as white officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck. It is gut-wrenching, disgusting, and 
uncomfortable to watch. Accessed: 6/11/2020 The Tale of Two Knees - UCSD Guardian
The first step towards progress is letting these issues sit with us until we all feel the pain. Can  
you imagine losing a loved one, or a family member in that manner? No matter the color of  
your skin, we are all human and there is no justification for taking a life like that. 
With all the racist and devastating murders of blacks in the past decade, the cries for help,  
change, and justice have become merely unheard voices. Back in 2016, quarterback Colin  
Kaepernick began kneeling during the national anthem to protest this ongoing police  
brutality and the mistreatment of black Americans. He received sharp backlash from many  
including the President who suggested the NFL get “that son of a bitch off the field”.  
Following the 2016 season, Kaepernick has essentially been blackballed from the NFL and  
since then has not signed or played a single snap in the league. This embodies the problem  
within our country. The NFL, owners, and much of society did not listen to his message, and  
the league wanted no part in assisting this systematic racism issue. They told him he could  
not protest in the way he did, politicized his argument, made it emotional, and in doing so  
completely missed the point he was making. 
Fast forward to today, where we have protests and riots taking place in cities across the  
country. Many citizens who enable this racial injustice, however, are calling for our nation to  
protest peacefully, asserting violence and rioting is not the way to go about solving the  
problem. Vice President Mike Pence shared this sentiment this past Friday when he took to  
Twitter to condemn “violence against property or persons” and claimed, “we [Trump’s  
administration] always stand for the right of Americans to peacefully protest and let their  
voices be heard.” 
However, during the 2016 season, when Kaepernick was kneeling every game to peacefully  
protest police brutality and racial injustice, Pence was in attendance and made a scene by  
marching out of the stadium before the game even started. After the game, Pence said, “I left  
today’s Colts game because President Trump and I will not dignify any event that disrespects 
our soldiers, our flag, or our national anthem.” 
Kaepernick is right and always has been. Pence and all that clash with Kaepernick’s protest 
are simply not listening, and either do not want to have constant reminders of the systematic 
racism that exists in America or are just flat out racists themselves. Many in America are 
criticizing the communities protesting, yet they have not listened to their voice and pleas for 
justice over the past century. What else can African Americans do to make themselves heard?
The NFL kicking Kaepernick out of the league is an example of why injustice still occurs 
every day in America. Any reminders or evidence of the mistreatment of blacks and people ofAccessed: 6/11/2020 The Tale of Two Knees - UCSD Guardian
color  are suppressed by the public and brushed off as a daily occurrence in many privileged  
communities. 
We cannot continue to allow this to happen. We need these reminders to enable all people  
and all races to feel this pain and let it boil within us to truly make us angry and motivated to  
fix the injustice of human rights that is and has been going throughout our country.  
Sometimes you have to cut the grass to find the snakes. It is time for change; it is time to cut  
the grass.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Wake up America: Systematic Faults of the Police System Fuel, and are Fueled by, Racist America - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Zara Irshad 
Americans have been told to maintain peace during the COVID-19 pandemic. Maintaining  
peace does not mean  kneeling on another man’s neck until he suffocates.  
Americans have been told to keep police phone lines clear in case of emergency. Keeping  
phone lines clear does not mean calling the police when you are asked to leash your dog in 
a park.
Americans have been told to keep taking care of each other. Taking care of each other 
does not mean turning a blind eye to obvious abuses of power within the police force. 
White privilege and power lust are ever-present in America today, even in the midst of a 
worldwide pandemic. That is merely a fact. An unacceptable and inhumane one, but 
nonetheless a fact. 
Over the course of the past few weeks, several stories have surfaced regarding racism andAccessed: 6/11/2020 Wake up America: Systematic Faults of the Police System Fuel, and are Fueled by, Racist America - UCSD Guardian
abuses of power within the police force: the violent shooting and murder of Ahmaud Arbery 
by two white  men, who was simply going for a run; the violent shooting and murder of 
Breonna Taylor, whose home was mistakenly raided by three fully armed white policemen; 
now, the brutal murder of  George Floyd, who was accused of forgery, restrained, and 
suffocated to death on the  street by a white police officer while several other officers stood 
by and aided.
Unfortunately, this harsh reality is not a new occurrence. A recent study found that in San  
Diego alone, police stop black people at a rate that is  219 percent higher  than white people. 
This discrepancy proves  that police brutality and corruption cannot simply be attributed to 
having a few bad seeds.  This is a systemic issue that needs to be addressed, as it causes the 
government to fail at  protecting its citizens yet again and perpetuates sentiments of racism 
and entitlement in our  society. It was found by the Reuters news organization that only 53 
percent of Americans  trust the police to be fair and just.  Considering that the official motto 
of the  Police Academy is “to protect and serve,” this is an absolute disgrace. By not fulfilling 
this message, people are left to fend for themselves not only against criminals but also 
against the  very system that was created to protect them. The police force needs to undergo 
some serious systematic reflection and welcome the intervention of state officials and 
prosecutors in holding officers accountable for their actions.  
The police should always act with the best interests of the American populous in mind, not 
their own racist agendas. The criminal justice system needs to actually implement 
punishments for those who do not abide by this and eliminate corrupt officers from the 
establishment rather than protect them. 
Arbery was shot to death on Feb. 23, but the police department only arrested the two men 
who shot him on May 7. It took 74 days to bring those murderers to justice,  despite the fact 
that there was video evidence of the crime. The only reason that the police finally took 
action was the immense public outrage on social media. 
Taylor was murdered in her own home in the middle of the night on March 13. It has been 
79 days, and the police officers that forcefully entered her home and shot her to death have 
yet to be arrested. Instead, the police tried to arrest and convict her boyfriend, Kenneth 
Walker , who fired on the intruding officers with a legally owned firearm in self-defense. 
Floyd was suffocated to death on May 25, unarmed and without resisting arrest. While the 
officer who murdered him, as well as the three officers who stood by and allowed this to 
happen, have been fired, it has been six days and only one of these men has been arrested. Accessed: 6/11/2020 Wake up America: Systematic Faults of the Police System Fuel, and are Fueled by, Racist America - UCSD Guardian
This is not protecting or serving the American people. 
The police system is failing to protect the public due to the extreme internal corruption that  
only seems to worsen over time. Police should not need a public outburst to provoke action.  
They should know to react — that is their job. The system is at fault, as there is little to no  
action being taken to reprimand the numerous officers who have reports or complaints of  
misconduct filed against them. 
For example, it was found that at the time of the murder, there was an ongoing 
investigation into Brett Hankison, one of the officers that raided Taylor’s house, after 
accusations of  “harassing suspects with unnecessary arrests and planting drugs on  
them.”Additionally, Derek Chauvin, the ex-police officer that suffocated Floyd, was 
reported to have received a dozen misconduct complaints  in his nineteen years working for 
the Minnesota police force. But not once was he disciplined or investigated for these 
actions until now. 
These types of reports and complaints should not be taken lightly, and officers accused 
need to be removed from duty, effective immediately. Currently, due to the lack of such 
measures, officers with records of being reckless and racist have been allowed to continue 
going out into the field, which puts the lives of civilians at risk — civilians like Breanna 
Taylor and George Floyd. 
These officers should not have been allowed to remain in the police force. It is as simple as 
that. The fact that these men were allowed to keep their badges and guns in the midst of 
these accusations tells them that they can act as they please without penalties. The lack of 
action that the police force, as well as the criminal justice system as a whole, has taken in 
the midst of these injustices perpetuates racism within American society and fuels public 
acts of hate by showing the population that it is okay to be racist. This inaction enables 
racist citizens to vocalize their discrimination and act on it.
One of the most recent examples of this has been Amy Cooper, a white woman who 
threatened to call the police on a black man who asked her to leash her dog in Central Park 
this past week. Another is Tom Austin, who called the police on a group of five black men 
who were using a shared office gym. These occurrences demonstrate the air of white 
privilege that has been provoked by governmental actions, or lack thereof.  
The best thing that we can go right now is to make as much noise as we possibly can, 
because that’s the only way that those in power seem to listen. We need to sign petitions, Accessed: 6/11/2020 Wake up America: Systematic Faults of the Police System Fuel, and are Fueled by, Racist America - UCSD Guardian
make phone  calls, protest, be vocal; that is how we got  justice for Ahmaud, and that is how 
we will get justice for Taylor and Floyd.
That is how we will prevent more tragedies like these from occurring. The system has failed 
at protecting us, so we must take it into our own hands. The news headlines providing global 
exposure to these injustices are causing ripples, but we need to make waves. 
Photo courtesy of MPRnews.org.Accessed: 6/11/2020 More Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD Guardian
More Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining
 May 31, 2020  Hannah Rosenberg 
Documentaries will never ever cease to give me a surge of inspiration from the new 
perspectives and insights they provide. If  someone handed me a timeline, I could arrange a 
wide collection of documentary titles by when I first saw them, all the  subsequent times I’ve 
returned back, and how they have changed my life. This might sound like an exaggeration, but 
I can’t  emphasize enough how powerful this type of media can be. If quarantine is also making 
you feel stuck and stagnant, expose  yourself to any of these films for a breath of fresh air in 
this continuation of my previous article, “10 Documentaries to Watch  While Quarantining.”
“Becoming”
I’ve had multiple friends ask me what made this film so incredible of a watch after insisting 
they watch as well, but my responses have felt incomplete because nothing I begin to type 
feels like a sufficient answer. Running on watch number three, I keep being transported back 
in time to election night 2008 with my family piled in front of the TV. Hope pulsed through 
the world as President Obama was elected, and throughout the following eight years Michelle 
Obama stepped up as a leader with a presence arguably more pronounced than that of any Accessed: 6/11/2020 More Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD Guardian
past First Lady. “Becoming” is a much-needed reminder of the good that  exists as well as the 
endless potential we have to become better. The film follows the “Becoming” book tour, the 
sold-out tour  moderated by different media personalities at every stop. It also includes an 
honest look at the early days of Michelle Obama’s life in southern Chicago where she wasn’t 
seen as equal to her peers except around her family’s dinner table. Find “Becoming” on Netflix!
“Who Shot the Sheriff”
Some of my earliest memories involve Bob Marley CDs on repeat bouncing through the house 
like nothing else in the world mattered. As a result, reggae music has become a type of comfort 
food to me, and recently, in quarantine, I’ve been reliving it. Netflix conveniently suggested the 
documentary “Who Shot the Sheriff,” which takes a look at the assassination attempt on
Bob Marley in 1976. There is a lot of insight to be gained on the sociopolitical Jamaican reggae 
scene through this film. If you’re in the mood for a good dose of music and history, this Emmy-
nominated documentary should be on your list.
“Miss Americana”
There are few artists who I feel I have grown up with as much as I have Taylor Swift. Even if 
you aren’t necessarily a Swift stan, it isn’t hard to recognize the force of positive change that 
she is and how she navigates her life, the music industry, and beyond with integrity. “Miss 
Americana” peels back the curtain, making you feel as though you’re there sipping coffee in 
Taylor’s living room as she plays piano and brushes the dust off old journals, revealing the raw, 
real truth of her life since her very young days of showing up to record labels unannounced in 
hopes of signing a deal. Additionally, Director Lana Wilson was able to capture many of the 
writing and recording sessions that went into the making of Swift’s most recent album “Lover,” 
the first time anyone beyond collaborators have stepped inside the studio in the midst of the 
process. This 360-degree view of her life won’t disappoint, and the montages especially convey 
the magnitude of her 10 Grammy career. The film premiered at the 2020 Sundance Film 
Festival and has since been praised by critics for its vulnerability. “Miss Americana” can be 
found on Netflix.
“Getting into Cirque Du Soleil”
It’s easy to be awestruck by cirque performers when they are on stage, but have you ever 
wondered what it took for these artists to get where they are today? The Cirque Du Soleil 
audition process can be brutal and extremely unforgiving. This documentary follows the many 
ups and downs and gives viewers a better appreciation of the guts it takes to make it into the famous spotlight. As the talent pool reduces as the audition cuts continue, the finalists are 
brought to the Cirque Du Soleil  headquarters. Meeting the costume designers and makeup 
artists gives further insight into the magical world that is cirque.  The viewing was recently 
blocked in the United States, but a web extension such as Hola should allow you to view this  
YouTube  uploaded documentary from the perspective of another  country where it is allowed. If 
it wasn’t worth the extra effort of outsmarting the system, it wouldn’t be on this list!
“Generation Wealth”
Photographer Lauren Greenfield’s exploration of the wealth culture in the shifted American 
Dream takes you on an adventure  inside the minds of some of the richest people in various cities 
around the world including Los Angeles, China, Dubai, and  Moscow. This documentary  
investigates the motives behind the lifestyles of the top 1 percent, and the endless great lengths  
people will go for social status. In this multi-portrait visual journey, it becomes increasingly clear 
that the obsession with  wealth roots deeper than the superficial layer it appears to start and end 
with. “Generation Wealth” also touches on child  pageant stars and Beverly Hills High School 
teenagers who have been surrounded by the wealth bubble and the social  pressures in their 
circles that come along with all they’ve ever known. This film will get you thinking about the 
duality of  money: how powerful it can be and yet how it can’t solve everything. You can find it 
here on Amazon.
“First Position”
As a dancer through my late teenage years in what now feels like a past life, I saw the coexisting 
pressures and beauty of the dance world. “First Position” follows several young dancers as they 
work towards their most important performance of the year: the Youth American Grand Prix 
which hosts over 10,000 dancers every year. A lot of pressure is placed on this competition 
because of the professional opportunities it can result in for the most promising competitors, 
such as scholarships and other educational experiences with premiere schools. While many 
dream of making it to a professional company, few have the tenacity to get all the way there. The 
work ethic required of those on the professional ballet track is unlike anything you’ve ever seen. 
While dance can be grueling, it is also a beautifully intricate sport and art that is well conveyed 
through these kids’ unrelenting passion. You can watch “First Position” on YouTube, Google  
Play, iTunes, or Amazon.
“I Am a Killer”
Until this docuseries, I wasn’t one for investigative crime documentaries, but after the firstAccessed: 6/11/2020 More Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/11/2020 More Documentaries to Watch While Quarantining - UCSD Guardian
episode, I was hooked. The two-season series focuses every episode on a different inmate on 
death row and the story that led them there. The multi-angled  view of their stories presented 
through intimate interviews with the inmates themselves, as well as with family members,  
community members, lawyers, and other professionals involved makes for a complex maze of 
information to attempt to piece  together. “I Am a Killer” also brings light to the intricacies of 
the American justice system, bringing into question what justice  really means. Hearing the 
unfiltered perspectives of the convicted killers over the span of the 45-minute episodes shines 
more humanity on these people than most are willing to give them. You can watch this eye-
opening docuseries on Netflix.
“I’m Possible”
For anyone sinking in self-doubt, this autobiographical film that stands at a quick 25 minutes 
might make a dent.  World  acclaimed professional photographer Jeremy Cowart’s story is 
about overcoming the “I can’t” mentality that holds so many of  us back. After nearly failing 
school, Cowart didn’t believe he had much of a future, but thanks to some important people in 
his life, he was able to switch the narrative. Through a series of career question marks, he 
eventually found himself picking up a  camera, never imaging that he’d soon be responsible 
for some of the most noteworthy album cover art, concert photography,  photography of world 
leaders, and photography-related social impact initiatives, leading Huffington Post to name 
him “Most  Influential Photographer on the Internet.” Jeremy Cowart is one of my favorite 
reminders that the word “impossible” can  instead mean “I’m possible.” Here’s his story free 
on YouTube.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Competitive Sports Gaming Lags Behind in ESports World - UCSD Guardian
Competitive Sports Gaming Lags Behind in ESports World
 May 31, 2020   Praveen Nair
On average, American men and women between 18 and 25 years old spend more time  watching 
esports and online gaming content than traditional sports. While sportswriters  have debated 
whether esports are “real” sports for years, it’s now a legitimate possibility that  within our 
lifetimes, esports could be more popular than any traditional sports.
Nowhere is the comparison between the two more stark than with sports video games, such as 
“Madden NFL,” “NBA 2K,” and “FIFA,” which many fans are looking to as sports alternatives 
while all major leagues are shut down. But especially when video games seek to emulate real-
life sports and are stretched to their absolute limit by high-level players, the cracks in so-called 
simulation games make them unsatisfying replacements for real-life sports.
On May 17, Raidel “Joke” Brito won Madden Bowl 20, the most prestigious tournament of the 
exclusive NFL video game, landing him a cool $65,000; in a display that would make the late 
19th-century originators of football proud, Joke passed the ball a total of zero times in his four-
match title run. Joke often lined up Washington punter Tress Way at quarterback  —in part 
because of a certain quicker handoff animation — and offensive linemen at wide receiver.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Competitive Sports Gaming Lags Behind in ESports World - UCSD Guardian
But none of this is in any way Joke’s fault — he just found a way to play the game in the best  
way possible, and this is what resulted from that effort. But the bizarre nature of the Madden  
Bowl shows just how, unlike in sports, high-tier competitive play is often antithetical to  
entertaining viewing.
Of course, these issues aren’t exclusive to sports video games — nearly every multiplayer  
video game must constantly issue patches and updates to ensure that there is no one  
completely dominant strategy to win. But sports gaming has the misfortune of trying to  
emulate something we’re all familiar with in real life — “League of Legends”  and “Fortnite”  
need to be balanced, sure, but they have no need to seem “real.”
So games like “Madden”  and “NBA 2K” need to balance games to be both fair and realistic,  
and those goals might often come into conflict. And no matter how much developers try to  
balance their games, players like Joke — who likely know games’ optimal strategies better  
than many of the people who created them — are always going to find ways to bend the game  
to their will.
There are also technical limits to perfecting a sports video game that are obvious to even  
casual players — chiefly, that there are a noticeably finite amount of things that can happen.  
Developers need to create animations for every action that a player can take, and even with  
the thousands of animations in the game, they still introduce a perceptible brittleness to  
games.
It isn’t uncommon to see someone complain about “a bad animation” on a layup in “2K” or 
on a catch in “Madden”, indicating frustration that the outcome of a play seems randomly 
chosen from a list of possible events rather than a result of their actions. The feeling of 
randomness that comes with these games, combined with the impossibility of perfect balance 
make for games that are ripe to be broken, and when it’s handed to players like Joke who 
make a living from breaking them, it leads to an ostensible spectator sports that is just not all 
that fun to watch.
So is this a problem that will fade away with time and increasing technical ability? It’s easy to 
imagine the objections of players now are just an advanced version of the likely objections of 
“Tecmo Bowl” players in 1987 that Bo Jackson could score fairly easily on every play. And as 
we move into a new generation of stunning progress in video games, it’s likely that a lot of 
the aforementioned problems will be mitigated and hopefully unnoticeable for casual 
players.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Competitive Sports Gaming Lags Behind in ESports World - UCSD Guardian
But as speedrunners, modders, or any of the other mostly unpaid and online gaming  
communities that use their shared knowledge and creativity to push games to their absolute  
breaking points can tell us, given the time and incentive, high-level players will always win  
that game against developers.
Just from a game theory perspective, the ability to root out unintended dominant strategies  
within a game as complex as “Madden” is mind-bogglingly hard; the ability to do so while  still 
remaining faithful to the style of real sports is bordering on impossible. Most sports  video 
games have virtually no competition, which certainly doesn’t help speed this process  along, 
either.)
None of this is to say that sports video games aren’t fun; for the majority of us who love  sports 
but can’t make a three-pointer to save our lives, they’re a unique way to engage with  sports, 
especially when sports are off the air. But even as esports rise to challenge — and  possibly 
surpass — many traditional sports, it’s unlikely they will ever defeat traditional  sports on their 
home turf. In other words, it’s hard to see how developers could make a sports  video game 
that’s more fun to watch than the sport it’s based on.
No matter whether sports video games fail to simulate reality or are tied down by it, they  
struggle to capture the unpredictability, infinite possibilities, and overall magic that real-life  
sports can offer, no programming needed.Accessed: 6/11/2020 Giving TEDx a New Look - UCSD Guardian
 May 31, 2020   Justin Cho  
Last weekend, the student organization TEDxUCSD held its annual public speaking 
event  online. Despite major hurdles, the team was able to design a very different type of 
TEDx event.
Last weekend, many students joined a Zoom call and found themselves wiggling their 
hands and feet in a game called “The Shake Down” as part of a warm-up and ice breaker. 
Only a few hours later, they found themselves discussing nuanced topics like identity, self-
acceptance, and systemic oppression. This interesting combo was part of TEDxUCSD’s 
new event, one that was designed for an online audience. 
Technology, Education, Design Conferences LLC is a massive media organization that is 
most known for producing inspirational and informational talks that have been seen by 
millions in its large live conferences and popular YouTube channels. Accessed: 6/11/2020 Giving TEDx a New Look - UCSD Guardian
Serving as an extension of TED, TEDx is a program affiliated with the greater TED  
organization that allows universities, cities, and communities to host their own independent  
“TED-like” events. The “x” in TEDx is intended to represent the idea that the event is
“independently organized” and the idea that it is making the TED experience more  accessible. 
These smaller, independent events must follow a number of guidelines to be  officially granted 
the TEDx title. 
TEDxUCSD is a student organization that hosts these TEDx events for UC San Diego  
students, usually organizing one major speaking event annually. Past themes have included  
“A Space in the Spectrum” and “When Bubbles Burst.”
This year’s theme was “Rebooted,” representing a reset and fresh start. The theme is  intended 
to inspire people who are not currently satisfied with themselves and offer  encouragement for 
reflection and change. This theme brought speakers such as writer and  artist Elizabeth 
Salaam, who talked about rebooting an authentic vision of oneself, and Amin  Shaykho, 
founder of numerous startups such as Kadama, who talked about rebooting his  approach to 
hard work.
Due to the unique circumstances currently presented by COVID-19, TEDxUCSD decided to  
host the event online for the first time. The finalized logistics differed from the standard  
template TEDx event. TEDx speakers pre-recorded their own talks, which were then posted  
on YouTube  the week  before the event. This was a big departure from the usual structure of 
delivering the TEDx  talks live in person and later posting them online.
The “live” component of this year’s event was primarily a collection of Q&A sessions during  
which participants could directly ask each speaker questions about the thoughts presented in  
their talk. 
The event was spread across two days and structured with an opening ceremony hosted by 
Gary Ware, founder of professional coaching and consulting company Breakthrough Play; 
Q&A sessions for each speaker that were hosted on Zoom, and a closing ceremony with a 
performance by the singer Cedrice, known for appearing on the popular singing competition 
show “The Voice.” In addition, a Facebook group titled the “Interactive Space” was created so 
that participants could continue the conversations started by the speakers’ talks.
Even before the pandemic, the organization had to address a myriad of tasks, such as 
scouting the speakers and marketing the event. The TEDxUCSD team had actually begun the 
early stages of preparation as early as last summer. Unfortunately, despite all of this workAccessed: 6/11/2020 Giving TEDx a New Look - UCSD Guardian
happening behind the scenes, when the university’s online shift happened, many of its pre-
established plans had to be dramatically changed or dropped if it wanted to continue through  
with the event. 
“Things started ramping up in terms of intensity towards the end of winter quarter,” Serene  
Issa, one of the TEDxUCSD co-directors, said. “We had everything really set up coming into  
spring quarter. Ideally, we would have had the venue; we had the speakers lined up. So when  
we heard that everything was going to be online and that most people went home, we realized  
this was [no longer possible].”
With much of their progress suddenly scrapped, the team heavily considered pushing back  
the event to next Fall Quarter. However, according to both of the event’s co-directors, it was  
the TEDx team’s passion and desire to bring the project to life that allowed the spring  
iteration of the event to survive. 
And so, ironically, the project was also “rebooted,” and the logistics had to be completely  
reworked to fit an online paradigm. The online switch proved to be difficult not only because  
of the small time frame, but also because, unlike a typical TEDx event, there was no clear  
model to base the event off of. There was no clear precedent for what an online TEDx event  
should have been like. In response, the team had to make many of the creative decisions on  
their own, essentially designing the format of a public speaking event from scratch.
Along with the team, the speakers also had to make quick adjustments to accommodate for  
the change in logistics. Speakers ended up with only two weeks to refine and pre-record their  
talks, a change that would ultimately cause some speakers to leave the project.
When the logistics were finally settled on and the speaker lineup was prepared, the new 
online TEDxUCSD event was almost born. However, with the massive changes, viewer 
turnout and participation became a concern looming over the minds of some team members.
“I think up until the last minute we didn’t know if anybody was going to show up,” Annika 
Olives, the other TEDx co-director, said. “Clicking on a zoom call, for some reason, can be a 
larger commitment, especially if they’re not familiar with the org or you haven’t been to any 
prior events. It can be a lot to be in a virtual space with people you don’t know and with no 
idea what to expect.”
Despite these concerns, the turnout for the event ended up being quite solid, and the 
engagement was strong. According to the TEDxUCSD Facebook page, 244 people respondedAccessed: 6/11/2020 Giving TEDx a New Look - UCSD Guardian
to the event, with 72 people marking that they went and 144 people marking that they were  
interested. Both Issa and Olives were pleased with the turnout.
Because the event was online, the event also became accessible to those who are not UCSD  
students. A quick perusal through the Interactive Space Facebook group reveals a portion of  
the attendees do not attend UCSD, with students ranging from UC Riverside, UC Irvine,  
California State University Polytechnic Pomona, and Princeton University. A great number of  
the Facebook members even seemed to be college graduates, including Donia Amer, a York  
University graduate that discovered the event through Facebook.
According to Amer, there were a number of things about the event that stood out to her.
“I think the way the TEDxUCSD team decided to structure the conference was very creative.”  
Amer said. “Staggering the release of the TED talks leading up to the Q&A sessions kept  
viewers excited while allowing them time to participate in activities and think of questions.”
In addition to the structure, the Q&A sessions themselves seemed to be well received by staff  
members and participants alike. Issa cited that it was one of her favorite parts of the event,  
and that “it was awesome to see that these audience members actually care about what we’re  
talking about and that we don’t have to force them to [participate].” 
Many seemed to also appreciate that the sessions encouraged participation between the  
speaker and the audience, creating a direct connection that typical TEDx events don’t have.
“I found that the event was actually more intimate than other TED talks I’ve attended,” 
Carissa Cesena, a John Muir College senior, said. “We were having a real conversation 
instead of just listening to a rehearsed talk.”
Fascinatingly, despite the massive distance between participants, many seemed to feel even 
closer together through conversation. The engagement is highlighted by the aforementioned 
Interactive Space Facebook group. Each speaker was given a discussion board, and many are 
filled with insightful comments and very personal stories. 
For example, Victor Ochoa’s talk about his Chicano heritage spurred a discussion that 
prompted many participants to share and discuss their own ethnic identities. The Facebook 
group also contained some conversations not directly affiliated with a particular speaker, 
such as the “Behind the Name” activity, where the participants were encouraged to talk about 
the meaning of their name. These activities were well received by every participant IAccessed: 6/11/2020 Giving TEDx a New Look - UCSD Guardian
interviewed.
The creative decisions like the inclusion of the aforementioned Q&A sessions and Interactive  
Space were designed with engagement in mind, and these decisions reflect how the co-
directors’ goals for the event changed after the online shift.
“I think, before everything happened, we wanted to sell out a huge venue,” Issa said. “But I  
think after things shifted our goals kind of went towards wanting more people to be engaged  
and wanting people to actually participate within either the live Q&As or activities.” 
With the loss of the big stage, the team turned away from the massive, bustling audience to  
create something more personal and tailored. In order to effectively adapt to the pandemic’s  
current circumstances, the TEDx team also adapted their strategies for reaching and  
inspiring people. However, while making these changes, the team made sure not to lose sight  
of their ultimate objective.
“Something I’ve said from the beginning is that as long as we impact one person in the  
audience, then we’re successful and we’ve achieved whatever we can,” Olives said. “I feel like  
TED is such a space where you want the audience to walk away, having felt something. I  
think that’s the goal, not just for us, but for TEDx everywhere. [This is the goal] no matter  
what the event looks like, whether it’s physical or virtual.”
Art by Anthony Tran for The UCSD Guardian.