Accessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
 April 20, 2020   Tori Anderson 
Let’s start this week off right with a new quarantine workout! This week will be focused on 
working all aspects of your upper legs. It will range from 30 minutes to an hour depending 
on whether or not you warm up with a jog or a walk. Make sure you give yourself a one to 
two minute rest between each rep, but try to go straight into the next exercise once you 
finish. You are going to feel the burn on this workout, but I promise it is a good one. So 
blast some music and let’s start this workout! 
Stretch for five minutes. Get those muscles loose. Once done stretching, go for a 10 minute 
jog or 15 to 30 minute walk. Then, kick start your workout with some core. If you want to 
do that after your workout as a finisher, that is fine as well. To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here →
2–3 sets of 15 reps each exerciseAccessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
In-N-Outs
•Sit on the floor and place your hands behind your back, either shoulder-width apart or
in a triangle behind the middle of your back.
•Lean back at a slight angle with your legs straight out and then pull them in to meet
with your chest.
Plank Hip Dips
•Get into plank position with your forearms on the ground. Make sure your back is
straight and engage your core.
•Do not sink down or stick your butt up, always keep your back straight.
Twist from one side to the other, always keeping your core engaged. Feel the burn!
Crunches
•Lay on your back with knees up, as seen in the video, and crunch up.
•Focus on your core and only lift up to where your shoulder blades are off the ground. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
•I use a resistance band as shown below, but if you do not have a resistance band, then  
you can use some sort of added weight and put it between your feet
•I place my hands behind and on the bench for grip.
•After the 15 reps, I did a quick five-rep pulse with a three-second hold on the last one  
rep. It’s optional, but it definitely makes you feel the burn! 
Leg Extensions
Focuses on quads3 sets of 15 for each exerciseAccessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
Dumbbell Stiff Leg Deadlift
Focuses on hamstrings. Secondary muscle used is glutes.
•Knees slightly bent. When you start to bend down, act as if there is a string wrapped
around your waist that is pulling your butt back. You will slowly glide your weights
down your leg as you pull your butt back. When you come back up, squeeze your glutes
inwards. You can also picture the rope that was pulling your butt back is now in the
front and is pulling your butt inward.
•Your back should always be straight and never slanted.
•Keep your neck and back aligned.
Dumbbell Static Lunge
Focuses on quads and glutes. Secondary muscle used is hamstrings.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
•Make sure your knees are bent at a 90-degree angle and your back is aligned with your
shoulders pulled back.
•Look straight or slightly up but not down because you’ll start to lean forward and your
back will no longer be straight and aligned.
•When you come back up, your knees should slightly be bent; do not lock them out.
•You can do it either with or without the resistant band. I personally like the extra
tension along with using dumbbells (or any extra weight).
Sumo Pulse Squats
Focuses on primary quads and glutes. Secondary muscle is hamstrings
•You want your stance a little wider than shoulder-width apart and toes pointed out.
•When squatting, try to get to a 90-degree angle, and on your way up to stop midway,
do a pulse squat (also known as a mini squat), and come back up with squeezing your
butt inwards.
Accessed: 6/2/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
Hamstring Curls  
Focuses on hamstrings
•Can do with towels or laying on a flat elevated surface.
•For the towel method, rest your weight on your shoulder blades with your back off  
the ground.
•Try to get your legs as extended as possible and then you are going to slide your feet  
back towards your butt. THIS IS KILLER!
•For the flat elevated surface method, lay on your stomach and place weight between  
your feet. Slowly raise your feet towards your butt and go back down.
•You do not want to overextend your legs when going back down. Keep your legs  
either slightly bent or straight but do not lock your knees out. 
I hope you enjoy this workout and feel the burn. Let me know if you want more circuit 
base  workouts or weight. Let’s take advantage of this quarantine and better ourselves !Accessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
 April 20, 2020  Daisy Scott 
Editor’s Note: This article was researched before UC San Diego’s transition to remote 
learning  due to COVID-19. The programs discussed in this article are temporarily not 
available for  student participation. 
If you asked UC San Diego students to name a type of tree on campus, most would respond  
with  eucalyptus. After all, the campus was constructed where a vast eucalyptus grove 
resided,  and the Stuart Collection’s  installments of  “Trees” and “Two Running Violet V 
Forms” hinge on the leveling of this grove for meaning. 
However, despite the eucalyptus trees’ prevalence and recognition, they are far from being 
the only trees on campus. In fact, there are more than a hundred different species of trees 
currently growing across UCSD. The beginning of the 2019-2020 academic school year 
kick-started three  new initiatives to encourage greater awareness and support regarding 
tree diversity on campus. 
In honor of Earth Day, The UCSD Guardian compiled this series  to share with readers 
what these new campus initiatives entail and their ultimate goals. Part 1 of  the series can 
be found here.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic, click here →Accessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
Thousand Tree Initiative 
The UCSD Thousand Tree Initiative is another way the university hopes to facilitate greater  
support for campus trees. Announced by the Resource Management and Planning unit in  
October 2019, this plan sets the goal of planting a thousand new trees on the UCSD campus  
within the next three years. 
“Many counties and municipalities are becoming aware of the importance of healthy and 
abundant tree canopies,” the  university’s sustainability website  stated. “In addition to 
serving as the most important component in the fight against climate change, trees provide 
oxygen, food, shade, wildlife habitat, and incalculable aesthetic value.”
The initiative began  on October 18 with groundskeeper Chris Johnson and several Eleanor 
Roosevelt College students planting two California Redwood saplings on the Eleanor 
Roosevelt College green. In January, Johnson helped with a second tree-planting event for 
the Thousand Tree Initiative by combining it with the Tree Tours, planting two more 
Torrey Pine trees on campus. 
“I was lucky enough to be a part of the planting of the first two trees as a kick-off, two 
redwoods in the ERC green,” ERC sophomore Clara Pierone said. “As per usual, Chris had 
generously dug one of the holes before any of us arrived, and once we were there, he 
patiently guided us through the process, making it a really valuable learning experience for 
us all.”
Beyond the Tree Tours and the 1,000 Tree Initiative, Johnson spends the majority of his 
time on the grounds of ERC, where he plays an active role in Ellie’s Garden. Ellie’s Garden 
is a student organization that allows students to practice gardening and composting in the 
plots of land between the ERC freshman dorms. For many students, Johnson is who 
defines Ellie’s Garden’s positive experience. 
“Chris’ devotion to bettering our campus and to teaching those around him about the 
environment and how we can better it really is amazing, he’s always willing to help 
someone who wants to learn, he’s never sparring with his generosity and he usually brings 
with him a funny joke and some yummy chocolate,” Pierone, who is also the president of 
Ellie’s Garden, added. 
“Chris is an extremely kind hearted man that is passionate about plants and teaching 
others,” ERC freshman Kalani Piotrowski said. “Every time I have volunteered at theAccessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 2 - UCSD Guardian
garden he has been  welcoming and knows such a vast amount of knowledge it is hard to 
not strike up a  conversation. Chris has been a monumental positive influence on my life 
and he deserves  recognition for the hard work he puts in for all of us at UCSD.”
The UCSD Guardian has contacted the Sustainability Resource Center on campus 
regarding how the Thousand Tree Initiative’s timeline has been impacted by current 
instructions to limit  campus visitations. The most recent numbers released numbered 
over 400 trees planted so far.  Chris Johnson has confirmed that he is planning to 
continue planting and tending to trees on  campus, and including his intentions to plant 
a tree by himself on Arbor Day to celebrate.  
Photo from @UCSanDiego on Twitter.Accessed: 6/2/2020 PC Princess: Addressing the Quarantine Protests - UCSD Guardian
 April 21, 2020   Jacob Sutherland
Last Wednesday when I saw reports of protesters in Lansing, Michigan calling for their  
Governor to end the state’s stay at home order, I laughed. “How could anyone be so 
stupid,” I  thought to myself as I watched maskless protestors donning Confederate flags 
and chanting “lock her up” in reference to their governor.
On Friday morning, however, my laughter quickly subsided after the man in the White 
House  tweeted out: “LIBERATE MICHIGAN.” I felt a sense of dread set in as similar 
protests erupted  around the country, including in San Diego and Encinitas.
As someone who has participated in a number of protests over the years, I fully 
understand the  push to demonstrate when you feel that your rights and liberties are 
being taken away. That  being said, the nature of the COVID-19 pandemic warrants 
strict stay-at-home orders that  simply cannot be dismissed.
We have already seen the repercussions of not following the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention’s guidelines in regards to social distancing. South Dakota Governor  
Kristi Noem refused to implement a stay-at-home order because she felt her state didAccessed: 6/2/2020 PC Princess: Addressing the Quarantine Protests - UCSD Guardian
Lor ena
@LorenaSGonzalez
Dear @SDSheriff — I’d like to know the 
justification for ticketing protestors in their cars 
at the Otay Mesa Detention Center last week, 
while coddling those in Encinitas protesting by 
violating social distancing this weekend.
12:14 PM · Apr 20, 2020not compare to  hard hit urban areas. Now, South Dakota is one of the biggest  
hotspots for COVID-19 outbreaks.
Likewise, a week after a stay-at-home order protest took place in Kentucky, the state 
experienced a surge  in COVID-19 cases. Looking at Kentucky, it is objectively clear 
that violating these orders causes an increase in the virus’s spread
One thing I could not seem to wrap my head around at first was why there was such a 
large turnout at these protests. There will always be those who want to “stick it to the 
man,” but seeing hundreds of people show up and risk the health of themselves and 
those around them, in my mind, would require an enormous catalyst.
Speaking about the protests on an April 20 episode of The View, conservative political 
commentator Meghan McCain explained how frustration can arise among the average 
American when mainstream figures equate their experiences to those of the average 
American.
“I’ve seen media figures complaining and talking about their fear, and again I want to 
say ‘check your privilege,’” McCain said. “You are not someone … who [will] be 
impacted in the same way as someone making minimum wage in the middle of the 
country is, and I think part of [these protests] is people reacting to a lot of the 
commentary that we’ve been seeing.”
There is a perception held by the average American, and predominantly in the middle 
of the country, that the “liberal elite” are out of touch with the average American. 
Therefore, it is unsurprising that every one of these stay-at-home order protests has 
taken on a right-wing tone. It is clear that this “out of touch” perception compounds 
the desperation some of these protesters to take to the streets. They feel protesting is 
the only way their experiences can be heard by those in power.Accessed: 6/2/2020
To those of you who want to go out and protest: Your frustration with the system is 
valid, but channel your frustrations into activism that will not affect the health of 
yourself or your  neighbors. Create at-home letter writing campaigns to encourage your 
elected officials to pass  more stimulus packages. Stay informed on the number of 
COVID-19 cases in your area, but be  weary that spikes in the virus can occur without 
warning. Be a good neighbor and help those  around you who are in need of assistance 
and support.
To those of you staying home, who come from a place of socioeconomic privilege: Do not 
equate  your experiences in quarantine to that of those who were already struggling to 
make ends meet  before this pandemic started. Likewise, being able to work from home 
or afford to live for  several months without a job is a privilege in and of itself. Equating 
your experiences to those of  others only frustrates those who have been struggling, and 
does nothing to change the situation  you find yourself in.
This pandemic is one of the greatest challenges most of us will ever experience. But if we 
want to get through this pandemic as quickly as possible, then we all need to do our part 
and stay the  f— at home. Only when we all work together to social distance will the curve 
flatten and our  lives slowly stabilize.
Photo courtesy of Chris Stone for the Times of San Diego .PC Princess: Addressing the Quarantine Protests - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
 April 21, 2020   Daisy Scott 
Editor’s Note: This article was researched before UC San Diego’s transition to remote 
learning due to COVID-19. The programs discussed in this article are temporarily not 
available for student participation. 
If you asked UC San Diego students to name a type of tree on campus, most would 
respond  with  eucalyptus. After all, the campus was constructed where a vast eucalyptus 
grove resided,  and the Stuart Collection’s  installments of  “Trees” and “Two Running 
Violet V Forms” hinge on the leveling of this grove for meaning. 
However, despite the eucalyptus trees’ prevalence and recognition, they are far from 
being the  only trees on campus. In fact, there are more than a hundred different species 
of trees currently  growing across UCSD. The beginning of the 2019-2020 academic 
school year kick-started three  new initiatives to encourage greater awareness and 
support regarding tree diversity on campus. 
In honor of Earth Day, The UCSD Guardian compiled this series to share with readers 
what these new campus initiatives entail and their ultimate goals. Part 1 of the series canAccessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
be found  here and Part 2 here.
Campus Tree Survey
Triton Tree Trust project is a program designed to provide an updated, digital map of 
every single tree at UCSD through a campus tree survey. This survey’s ultimate goal is 
to allow the  university to be able to measure the overall wellbeing of each campus tree 
species, observing  how their health and oxygen and carbon dioxide levels fluctuate over 
time. The TTT will also monitor other traits such as the removal of trees, soil health, 
and erosion. 
The mapping process began officially between September and October 2019, inspired 
and prompted by Urban Forester Mike Hogan and Groundskeeper Chris Johnson. 
Triton Tree Trust works in close collaboration with  Geisel Library’s Data and GIS
(Geographic Information System) lab in order to ensure that the surveying process 
runs smoothly and efficiently for surveyors. The program also works in collaboration 
with other University of Californias’ geospatial mapping efforts, including UC Davis’ 
tree map. 
According to Amy Work, a GIS librarian at Geisel Library, the project hopes to include 
students as future surveyors. The program uses a GIS system called “Arbor Pro,” which 
creates a virtual map of campus with each tree as a different data point. In addition, 
the GIS lab is currently working to expand the survey’s data collection through an app 
called “Survey 123,” which would allow students and faculty to contribute to data 
collection by relying on their phones’ GPS systems, which is ultimately more accurate 
than Arbor Pro’s system. 
“This all gets into crowdsourcing,” Work said. “We live in a day and age where 
information can be crowdsourced by the general public to contribute to a greater good. 
And so if we can have that on campus, once we have all the trees mapped… This is 
really about if we understand the trees on our campus as well, how does that better 
help us with understanding the climate changes happening around us?”
Participants with the survey go through training to recognize different species of trees 
by going out with campus groundskeepers and members with facilities management. 
However, the app’s setup does allow students to participate regardless of their 
experience or knowledge level. Individuals recording trees into the app’s database are 
able to upload photos of trees, notes about weather conditions, the methods used toAccessed: 6/2/2020 Hug the Trees: Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
detect the tree, as well as how confident they are  about their ability to identify the 
tree’s species. Submissions to the survey can then be reviewed  by trained faculty 
members to ensure accuracy. 
“This is really getting the crowdsourcing of information, we have experts out there, we 
have novices out there, and it’s a balance of managing that data input,” Work 
explained. “So can you  have a novice map a tree? Well if they submit a photo, then 
Chris can identify that [tree species]  from a photo.” 
Keith Pezzoli, an associate teaching professor in the department of urban studies and 
planning, has also played a key role with the project’s development and guiding several 
urban studies  senior sequence students to participate with the survey. 
“UC San Diego is undergoing a culture shift embracing the many benefits of creat[ing] 
more experiential learning opportunities for students to link knowledge to action,” 
Pezzoli wrote in a  statement to The UCSD Guardian. “TTT is a good way to elevate, 
understand and improve the  use of green infrastructure on campus as a mini city that 
needs to address climate change.”
“Hopefully, and this is what we’d like to do, that data could be available for 
students’ projects,”  Work said. “So could we allow a student to be able to analyze 
this data and figure out what tree  species is the most popular, or are there factors that 
could affect the health of that?”
As of mid-February, 16,900 campus trees were counted with the survey. However, even 
with this great number, large portions of the campus map were yet to be explored, 
including the  UCSD Health hospital and campus housing and dining properties. 
Due to the current campus access restrictions, students are not able to contribute to 
the campus tree survey at this time. However, the program is ongoing, and trees are 
still being counted this quarter by on-campus groundskeepers, including Johnson. 
Students interested in helping with the tree surveying process when campus activities 
resume can learn more by contacting Keith Pezzoli or reaching out to the student 
organization Roger’s Urban Farmlab. 
Image courtesy of Amy Work.Accessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Transportation Department Faces New Challenges Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
 April 22, 2020   Daisy Scott
This article was written and researched by The UCSD Guardian Editor-in-Chief 
Daisy Scott and News Co-Editor Andrew Ha, and is a part of our news series on the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  For information on how to prevent the spread of the virus, click  
here.
UC San Diego student campus transportation workers have requested hazard pay and 
improved departmental communication due to concerns surrounding working amidst 
the COVID-19 pandemic. These demands come after ridership dramatically decreased 
with the transition to  online classes for Spring Quarter 2020. As a result, the 
department has also reduced  available shuttle service  since March 30. 
Two student campus transportation workers contacted The UCSD Guardian with an 
email they sent to their supervisors, claiming that they had not received sufficient 
sanitization supplies in a timely manner and expressing concerns over an alleged 15-
hour restriction placed on student workers’ hours. Both students requested anonymity 
due to fear of retribution.Accessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Transportation Department Faces New Challenges Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
Since the California stay-at-home order  was enacted in Week 9 of Winter Quarter 
2020, the student workers alleged that they  have struggled to get a sufficient amount of 
supplies to ensure the sanitation of their  workspaces. They claimed that it was not until 
Week 2 of  Spring Quarter 2020 did student  workers get the necessary supplies. 
According to the student workers, career drivers––or non-student shuttle drivers––
were allegedly prioritized by transportation leadership. 
“Career drivers were given Clorox wipes, masks, and gloves, but by midday when all the  
supervisors left, there was nothing left [for the 7 student workers] but the gloves… [The  
Supervisor] locked extra Clorox wipes in their office,” one of the students workers said. 
It wasonly very recently [at the beginning of week 2] that we got supplies.”
The UCSD Guardian reached out to Transportation Services for comment regarding 
these  claims.  University Communications and Public Affairs responded by stating that  
Transportation Services had introduced various sanitation practices on March 4. They 
stated that the protocol has been to sanitize bus interiors daily and clean high-touch-
surfaces throughout the day. The University also said that they provided protective 
equipment for employees to use each workday. 
“When service resumed after spring break, additional measures were added [including]  
reducing service and transitioning drivers to telework or paid leave to support social 
distancing on campus and support the stay at home order; limiting rides to essential 
trips and individuals  with university ID; boarding passengers only through the rear 
door to physically distance  drivers from passengers; and limiting boarding and taping 
off seats to enforce social distancing  among passengers,” UCSD Associate 
Communications Director Leslie Sepuka said.
The student workers also claimed that during spring break, Transportation Services 
gave all  student workers 15 hours of online shifts, or telework, on top of their physical 
shifts. Although  they alleged that they were able to get more than 15 hours that week,  
Transportation Services allowed 15 hours of telework only if workers did not have any 
physical shifts beginning in Week  1 of Spring Quarter. 
“The ability to pick up shifts beyond 15 hours is not limited, but supervisors must 
manage the overall cost and give priority to those who do not have 15 hours of on-site 
work,” Sepuka said. “The university is also pursuing opportunities for telework 
wherever possible. Hazard pay will not be provided, but Transportation Services will 
continue to meet or exceed the recommended practices for workplace safety duringAccessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Transportation Department Faces New Challenges Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19.”
As per Transportation Services Director Josh Kavanaugh’s email to student workers 
on March 20, the department promised to grant a minimum of 15 hours per week for 
each student before  others are allowed to work more. The student workers expressed 
concern at this protocol,  alleging that in practice it led to their supervisors capping 
work at 15 hours a week instead.  Student shuttle drivers are paid $17 per hour, 
indicating that under a 15-hour restriction, the  maximum a student could make is 
$255 a week. 
“During a [normal] quarter we are allowed to go up to 35 hours per week,” one of the 
student  workers said. “Anything above 35 and we would have to get approval from 
the supervisor. [Many students] max out at 35 hours, because it is expensive to live 
here. Now that they are  limiting us to 15 hours, even if you do driving shifts, it doesn’t 
help. It doesn’t pay anything. It  doesn’t pay any bills.” 
On Friday, April 10, UCSD Shuttles Leadership, which consists of the departments’ 
student  dispatchers and trainers, sent an email to Shuttle Services Manager Raymond 
Wampler and supervisors Kenneth Wilson and Ione Tite. The email outlined shuttle 
drivers’ specific requests  and questions, beginning with hazard pay. This request 
derived from student workers’ concerns  about driving shuttles before the distribution 
of masks and disinfectant spray, even with the  reduced shuttle services schedule. 
“Only recently did we establish a general sanitation policy for all of our buses and 
offices and  additionally a policy on using masks and gloves in the office and when on 
route,” the email  claimed. “We were essentially driving buses (with few passengers ) 
but nonetheless with  passengers with absolutely no protection. In my opinion, that 
counts as a need for hazard pay.”
The email also pointed out that most shuttle drivers working on campus are students, 
while the majority of managerial staff work remotely. The student workers alleged 
that this practice contributed to departmental miscommunication, and requested 
increased supervisor presence to ensure better guidance. 
“This lack of physical representation and leadership in the office leads to a confusing 
and tedious workplace,” the email stated. “ It’s clear that our daily operations can 
function smoothly without supervisor presence, but with the number of calls and 
questions from employees and customers that we get daily, it becomes difficult for usAccessed: 6/2/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Transportation Department Faces New Challenges Amidst Pandemic - UCSD Guardian
to give the same answer.”
Student workers also alleged a lack of clear communication regarding administrative 
leave options, specifically regarding their ability to resume their usual shift schedules 
once they had  used up all of their leave hours. They also expressed concern over 
whether or not their allotted  administrative leave hours would renew with the 
beginning of UCSD Summer Session classes,  which will also be held remotely. The 
email concluded with  requests for clarification on the number of in-person hours 
employees would be allowed to work  in addition to telework. 
Kavanaugh responded to student workers on April 12 by sending a department-wide 
email. He announced three upcoming opportunities for “Student Staff Roundtables” via 
Zoom, when student workers will be able to voice their concerns. There were also Zoom 
links to recreational  events for Transportation Services employees, including “Team 
Trivia,” a “Virtual Scavenger  Hunt,” and “Talent Show and Scholarship Drawing.” 
“Participation in any of the above sessions may be paid time; however, all work must be  
approved by supervisors in advance,” Kavanugh’s email read. “For our student staff 
members, participation will count toward the 15 hours of work opportunity that we’ve 
committed to  providing. That means that participation may result in a reduction in 
scheduled hours whether  those are for traditional work, remote work, or online 
training.”
According to an email to transportation workers on April 9, Kavanaugh explained that 
student  workers could be given prorated administrative leave as a third option beyond 
physical or  telework shifts. Administrative leave would permit students workers to not 
hold shifts but still  get paid. Those who work 49 percent of a full-time worker, which is 
most student workers,  would be able to be awarded 62.72 hours of admin leave this 
quarter. 
At this time, student drivers have not sent additional emails or requests to the 
Transportation Services department. The UCSD Guardian will continue to monitor any 
further developments with this story. 
Illustration by Yui Kita for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/2/2020 What to expect for this year’s Virtual NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
 April 22, 2020   Wesley Xiao 
With essentially all sporting events being shut down for the past month and a half, 
sports fans  across the country are itching for the upcoming 2020 NFL Draft which 
will be held virtually,  this coming Thursday, April 23. Obviously, these are 
unprecedented waters and there will be  various significant changes to the fan-favorite 
event. But what we do know is that teams will  participate remotely including 
commissioner Roger Goodell and 58 prospects will attend  virtually. Although teams 
will not receive extra time to make their selections, the player  personnel department 
will stop the clock if a team runs out of time to allow for the pick or trade  of the 
selection to occur. 
It has been reported that front office and team executives have had IT teams install 
new wiring  and internet systems to prepare for the draft and try to prevent any 
technical problems. Former  NFL executive Bill Polian sees “glitches in  
communication” and  “trades becoming problematic”  as potential issues and are the 
reasons why all these team officials have been working with an IT  crew over the past 
week. Accessed: 6/2/2020 What to expect for this year’s Virtual NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
Others have brought up the potential difficulties of communicating between front office  
members and coming to a consensus pick in such a short allotment of time. As it stands, 
teams have 10 minutes for each first-round selection,  With people quarantined at 
home, all team  executives deciding on a pick together while fielding calls from teams 
looking to trade will more  than likely be chaotic to say the least. On the Lefkoe Show, 
football analyst Warren Sharp  suggested that teams should “incorporate non-verbal 
communication” to improve efficiency and  even run through some practice drafts with 
the full front office to find out the best way to  communicate come draft day.
All these issues stem from technological problems that could result from the draft being 
held virtually, but to make matters even more strenuous for NFL teams, the past month 
and a half of quarantine has significantly hindered teams ability to scout prospects, dive 
into medicals, and cement their big boards. Here are some things to monitor for this 
year’s unique virtual draft. 
Teams will take less risks
Teams are going into this draft with a lot less data than they are used to. The mountain 
of athletic measurements, interview answers, and college coach testimonials that teams 
would have collected from Pro Days and pre-draft meetings is gone this year. The most 
significant loss is that teams were not able to conduct their own medical evaluation of 
prospects. Personality and culture fit can still be gleaned from phone interviews and 
athletic measurements can be estimated from college tape, but there is no virtual 
substitute for a proper and in-depth medical check. Being able to stay healthy is one of 
the most important abilities of an NFL player and medical checks give teams a chance 
to look into any injury questions surrounding a prospect. Without the assurances from a 
medical check, players who are currently injured or have an injury history will fall in the 
draft. We are already seeing this with Tua Tagovailoa, a top quarterback prospect until 
he dislocated his hip in November, who has reportedly been taken entirely off three 
teams’ draft boards because of injury concerns. Teams are going to play it safe and pass 
on players with health risks. This “playing it safe” attitude will likely bleed into teams’ 
entire draft philosophies. Teams will stick to college programs they are familiar with, a 
la Boise State and the Dallas Cowboys, and that have strong and successful programs, 
like Alabama or Clemson. Expect teams to favor backups from big-name programs over 
starters from small schools.
Analytics for the winAccessed: 6/2/2020 What to expect for this year’s Virtual NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
The one thing teams will still have is college game tape. Teams have hours of game film 
from the  2019 college season, which was not impacted by COVID-19, as well as film 
from 2018 and back.  Without data from visits and pro days, prospect’s college film will 
become the major factor in  many team’s player evaluations. This may be the one silver 
lining to this year’s draft situation.  Teams basing the majority of their player 
evaluations on college tape may actually improve the  quality of this year’s draft class. 
Instead of being distracted by flashy 40 times and big hands,  teams can only analyze 
players’ abilities based on the relatively large sample size of their college  careers. For 
the teams who are willing to embrace it, analytics will play a big role in this year’s  
draft, helping teams synthesize and understand vast amounts of college film. Some 
teams have  already integrated analytics into their draft process to make up for the lack 
of information. The Baltimore Ravens, for example, have used analytics to estimate a 
prospect’s athletic  measurements based on their game tape. As the rest of the league 
adopts a conservative  approach to the draft, watch for analytics-driven teams — like 
the Eagles and Patriots — to go in  the opposite direction and take risks.
Lots of value to be had at the end and after the draft
A lot of talented players will fall in this year’s draft. As teams opt for more risk-averse 
draft strategies, they will let players with question marks — be they from injury 
concerns, off-the-field issues, or a lack of name recognition — to go past them in favor 
of the “safer” pick. For  teams who are willing to take a risk, they could come away with 
blue-chip players in the later  rounds. Take Colorado wide receiver Laviska Shenault 
Jr., for example. Originally mocked to go  in the first round, the high upside wideout 
has since slipped down to the second round because  of concerns over a core muscle 
injury that needed surgery. To take a shot at players like this,  teams will need to trust 
in their evaluation of the player’s talents and in their medical staff. With  all the players 
sliding down draft boards, this year could feature a strong undrafted free agent  rookie 
class. Not having to invest a draft pick or a big contract, teams could gain a lot of talent  
after the draft without much risk.Accessed: 6/2/2020 A.S Council Brief: Student Services Fee Will Not be Refunded; Recommendations for Exam Proctoring - UCSD Guardian
 April 23, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
Associated Students Senators discussed updates from Housing Dining Hospitality and  
announced what stage UC San Diego is at regarding Fall Quarter coursework during 
their latest  meeting on Wednesday, April 22.
A.S. President Eleanor Grudin shared the discussions she has had with other 
university officials  about potential scenarios for Fall Quarter. With reference to the 
announcement made by California State University, Fullerton to begin their Fall 
Semester virtually,  Grudin clarified what stage the UCSD is at in terms of making a 
statement.
“[We are] definitely not at the point of announcing the future of Fall Quarter,” she 
said, adding that the university is currently troubleshooting various options for 
courses of action. 
Additionally, Grudin announced that University of California President Janet 
Napolitano announced in a meeting that the Student Services fee will not be refunded. 
The Student Services fee is a system-wide fee and controlled by the UC Office of theAccessed: 6/2/2020 A.S Council Brief: Student Services Fee Will Not be Refunded; Recommendations for Exam Proctoring - UCSD Guardian
President. However, campus-specific fees are being assessed by campus  leadership. 
The meeting continued with Sixth College A.S Senator Shubham Kulkarni discussing 
updates  from HDH. Currently, there are 1,739 undergraduate students on-campus, as 
well as 165  resident assistants. All students who were going to move off-campus for 
Spring Quarter have  already done so and there were no special extension requests. 
HDH has adjusted to social distancing rules by transferring each student into a 
single-occupancy room. 
Kulkarni also shared information about housing refunds. While HDH has posted the 
amount students will be getting back on Tritonlink, they are still processing the 
refunds.
Grudin also shared the Education Continuity Group’s recommendations for 
professors regarding proctoring exams. There are multiple tiers of recommendations, 
with the first asking professors to implement other forms of exams that do not require 
proctors.
The second tier suggests that professors use “Proctor Zoom rooms” administered 
through the Academic Integrity Office and use UCSD faculty, trained students, and 
teaching assistants to proctor students through Zoom. These proctors will watch a 
group of 20-25 students, making it less intense than other proctoring applications. 
Finally the last tier of recommendations is to use outside proctoring services such as 
ProctorU.
Artwork by Allyson Llacuna for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Letter to the Editor: UCSD CALPIRG Student Calls for Expanding V ote By Mail - UCSD Guardian
 April 24, 2020   Guest Writer 
To the Editor: 
Re “Students respond: How have COVID-19 policies changed your life?” (April 5, 
2020) 
Is the right to vote not a foundational part of American democracy? 
It is obvious that UC San Diego students, as well as so many other Americans are 
obeying  Governor Newsom’s stay-at-home order to ensure the safety of themselves 
and their loved ones.  It is needless to say that many Americans may still feel anxious, 
come voting day this  November. That is why we should expand Vote by Mail and send 
every registered voter a ballot  this Fall so we can ensure everyone has the chance to 
vote and participate in civic society, while  staying healthy and safe. 
I, like many Americans, love going to the polls on voting day, and find it empowering 
to walk out with my “I voted” sticker, but I will feel just as empowered, maybe evenAccessed: 6/2/2020 Letter to the Editor: UCSD CALPIRG Student Calls for Expanding V ote By Mail - UCSD Guardian
moreso, by being  able to vote from the safety of my own home. In order to allow us all 
to complete our civic duty  to vote, without sacrificing our health, we must expand the 
vote by mail ballot to every  registered voter this November. 
Bobbie Rivers
Thurgood Marshall College
Class of 2022
San Diego, CA
Image courtesy of AIA Film Challenge.Accessed: 6/2/2020 EDITORIAL: Student Newsrooms Important Now More Than Ever - UCSD Guardian
 April 25, 2020  Guardian Staff
Newsrooms over the past decade have faced an increasing onslaught of criticism, 
defunding,  and threats of closure. Student publications are not exempt from these 
struggles. However,  many have succeeded in providing accurate coverage and 
innovative content amidst strained  resources, limited writers, and a lack of community 
support.
Today is the Save Student Newsrooms Day of Action. In recognition of the hard work 
being put  in by student journalists to provide consistent and accurate coverage during 
this pandemic, we  ask you to join us and stand in solidarity with other student 
journalists around the country to  #SaveStudentNewsrooms.
Started by the Independent Florida Alligator in 2018, the initiative is “a  campaign to 
educate people about the challenges facing student-run newsrooms.”
With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, these challenges common to student journalism 
have been magnified. Many student newsrooms have had to adapt to a new, remote 
environment while continuing to provide their student bodies with the latest and most Accessed: 6/2/2020 EDITORIAL: Student Newsrooms Important Now More Than Ever - UCSD Guardian
accurate information. The UCSD Guardian is no exception to this.
Throughout the pandemic, our staff has worked tirelessly to provide breaking news 
coverage on  the latest COVID-19 updates, create resources on health and wellness for our 
fellow Tritons, and  also provide more lighthearted and unique content to ease the minds 
of those struggling to find  their place in this ever-changing environment.
We are exponentially grateful for the support of our readers and all of the hours of work 
and dedication put in by each and every one of our staff members. That being said, we 
recognize that we come from an immense place of privilege, as many student newsrooms 
around the country struggle to make ends meet and face attacks from their university 
administrations. Not every student publication has the independence from university 
oversight, opportunities, or resources that we do. 
The UCSD Guardian publicly stands in solidarity with student newsrooms across the 
country to support the hard work they are doing to serve their communities during this 
global pandemic. 
We thank you all for your continued support, and hope that you are staying healthy, safe, 
and informed during this pandemic.
Signed,
The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board:
Daisy Scott, Editor-in-Chief
Ranjani Shankar, Managing Editor
Jacob Sutherland, News Editor
Andrew Ha, News Editor
Geena Younger, Opinion Editor
Lara Sanli, Features Editor
Photo courtesy of the UC Riverside Highlander.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020  Justin Nguyen 
Arts and Entertainment writer Justin Nguyen shares his favorite horror film  
recommendations to watch while practicing self-isolation in quarantine.
(Trigger Warning: Death, Gore, Suicide)
Horror might not be the genre most people would turn to in the middle of an 
international public health and sociopolitical crisis, but it’s where I can always find 
comfort, no matter the  context. No other genre can depict the material and affective 
conditions of life in such creative  fashion as horror can, and as a longtime fan, I’ve 
now had the chance to watch a host of new  movies and revisit some old favorites. 
New or old, these are movies that express the embodied  experience of isolation and 
the oppressive architectures of the home. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Kim Jee-woon’s psychological horror masterpiece follows teen sisters Bae Su-mi (Im 
Soo-jung) and Bae Su-yeon (Moon Geun-young) who return to their family’s gothic 
hilltop mansion after  an unspecified period of absence, where they’re met by their 
distant father, a cold stepmother,  and a few ghostly apparitions who appear at every 
room in their home. It’s an unrelenting slow  burn that keeps its viewers in the dark for 
the bulk of its runtime, relying on atmosphere and  the increasing strangeness of events 
that linger around each corner. As the sisters are forced to  confront the literal and 
figurative ghosts of their past, tensions between the sisters and their  stepmother are 
driven to their breaking point. By the end, you’ll never look at a dresser in the  same 
way again. This movie is available for streaming on Shudder.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Not only is Matthew Holness’s “Possum” the most recent film on this list, but it’s also 
the scariest. A former children’s puppeteer named Philip (Sean Harris) returns to his 
decaying  childhood home in the countryside after a fall from grace to dispose of a 
mysterious suitcase  containing one of his creations. After a local boy goes missing, 
questions arise from Philip’s  creepy uncle Maurice (Alun Armstrong) around the 
family’s past and Philip’s possible  culpability. Both likely suspects, Philip and Maurice 
are fantastic counterparts, with their bodies  and faces mirroring the grime and decay 
of their decrepit home. Like “A Tale of Two Sisters,”  “Possum” reveals its secrets at an 
agonizingly glacial pace, but it culminates in one of the most  brutal and horrifying 
twists in recent horror memory. This movie is available for streaming on  Amazon 
Prime.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s “Kairo” is not so much a traditional haunted house movie as it is a  
meditation on isolation and the home as a space of withdrawal in the early computer 
age. Kurosawa might have initially made “Kairo” in response to his anxieties around 
the coming of  new media and the widespread social isolation it might inspire, but the 
film’s pertinence is  perhaps greater now than ever in the real context of quarantine 
and our ever-increasing reliance  on technology — and my ironic writing of this listicle. 
The film follows a group of  twentysomethings who, after one of their co-workers goes 
missing, discover a cyber curse that  induces anyone who comes across it to commit 
suicide.  Coming out of the golden age of  Japanese horror, “Kairo” features some of the 
most unsettling sequences of both spectral and  virtual encounters of any film from the 
period. It’s a must-watch for any horror fan, just maybe  not too late at night. This 
movie is available for streaming on Tubi.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Who said haunted house movies have to be scary? Inspired by his then 10-year-old 
daughter’s  fears of being attacked by her mirrored self, the late Nobuhiko Obayashi 
created this cult  classic. A visual feast of mindless campy fun, the film follows 
Gorgeous (Kimiko Ikegami), a  high school girl who invites her group of similarly 
oddly-named girlfriends to her aunt’s  mansion for the summer. After two of the girls 
go missing, the group realizes that Gorgeous’s  aunt might not be who she seems, and 
the rest is a chaotic fever dream of devilish kills as  different parts of the house try to 
consume the girls alive. This movie is available for streaming  on The Criterion 
Channel.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Justin's Horror Film Recommendations - UCSD Guardian
Last year’s “The Lighthouse” might have provided quality meme fodder for the 
psychological  effects of self-quarantine, but director Robert Eggers’s first feature “The 
Witch,” stylized as “The  VVitch,” is much more effective in its unnerving depiction of a 
family in isolation in colonial  New England. Cast away from their colony as a result of 
father William’s (Ralph Ineson) aberrant religious beliefs, a family must survive on their 
own in the harsh New England  wilderness. After their youngest child goes missing at the 
edge of the forest, a series of  hardships falls upon the family and they slowly descend 
into paranoia, blaming their eldest  daughter of the witchcraft producing their 
misfortune. “The Witch” is a masterclass in atmosphere and tension, with Eggers’s deep 
attention to historical accuracy lending itself to the suffocating landscape of the colonial 
wilderness. This movie is available for streaming on Netflix.
Images courtesy of Slant Magazine, Film Threat, Bloody Disgusting, Scream Horror 
Magazine, Film School Rejects
Art by Anthony Tran for the UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/2/2020 TV Review: “The Midnight Gospel” - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020  Hanaa Moosavi 
The animated equivalent of an acid trip, “The Midnight Gopsel” is your one way 
ticket to the dream-like universe of different worlds.
On April 20, 2020, Netflix released the new animated series “The Midnight 
Gospel.” Due to the  involvement of “Adventure Time” creator Pendleton Ward in 
this new television series, many  fans flocked to Netflix to catch its debut. “The 
Midnight Gospel,” a show about a spacecaster  named Clancy Gilroy (Duncan 
Trussell) who travels to different worlds and interviews the  creatures he finds on 
those planets, definitely lives up to its description of being an insane  psychological 
trip. Every episode is cast with a dream-like quality through the use of the  
animation’s neon coloring and intricate designs. Unfortunately, while there are a 
myriad of good aspects about ”The Midnight Gospel,” the show’s quality has also 
suffered on a few  accounts.
Some decisions in the content and writing of the show proved detrimental to the 
show’s appeal. Something that strikes the audience immediately is that, in its basic 
form, this is a show about a guy conducting a podcast. In each episode, charactersAccessed: 6/2/2020 TV Review: “The Midnight Gospel” - UCSD Guardian
discuss a new philosophy or heavy topic. The topics are introduced by Clancy pulling 
out a microphone drone and beginning to record a podcast. 
I dislike this premise because the idea behind the show originated from Ward liking 
Duncan Trussell’s podcast and wanting to create content based on it. Duncan Trussel 
is an American actor and stand-up comic, known for his podcast “The Duncan Trussell 
Family Hour.” I expected the show to be based on the podcast, not just to present an 
animated form of the  podcast. Ward and Trussell could have worked together to create 
stories or small plotlines that  encapsulated the content of the podcasts and still 
maintained originality, but, unfortunately, they did not. Instead, it seemed as though 
there was always a podcast dubbed over a visual story taking place in each episode.
What I mean by this is that there is a visual storyline while the characters talk in the 
podcast. On screen, the characters would be engaged in a battle or running away from 
a zombie invasion, while the characters still chatted about nonsense. In the fourth 
episode, for example, Clancy goes along with a warrior to avenge her lover’s murder. 
While the audience watches the duo fight battles and face dangerous paths, they talk 
about the concept of forgiveness and giving yourself space to heal. The audience is 
driven to divide their attention in order to fully take in the show’s narrative. The visual 
storyline provided in each show is the majority of the “acid trip” that is described of the 
show with visuals of entirely new worlds, some filled with creatures and floating 
islands. It seems criminal to have to divert your attention away from these visuals in 
order to follow the podcast placed over the show. If this is confusing to understand, 
then imagine how confusing it was to watch. The show would have benefited greatly 
from incorporating the philosophies and discussions of the podcast into each episode’s 
visual storyline. There is some degree of incorporation in the visual and verbal 
plotlines, but it seems unnecessary to keep the podcast aspect in the show’s execution 
at all. 
Despite the negative qualities of the show, there are still enjoyable aspects. The show 
maintains its own design and individuality, even with the “Adventure Time” influence. 
The content of the podcasts are very informative and retrospective, and some of the 
topics include personal healing and giving yourself space to heal, death and rebirth, 
ego, meditation and its benefits, forgiveness and the power of support, and even some 
metaphysics and philosophy. These topics were refreshing to hear and interesting to 
listen to throughout the show, even with the intrusive moments of unnecessary 
vulgarity. 
All in all, “The Midnight Gospel” is definitely a show to watch if you love listening toAccessed: 6/2/2020 TV Review: “The Midnight Gospel” - UCSD Guardian
podcasts  and have any form of interest toward metaphysics and “deep” conversations, 
but if you do not enjoy dividing your attention or having to rewatch shows to completely 
take them in, this is not the show for you.
Grade: C+
Creator: Pendleton Ward and  Duncan Trussell
Starring:  Phil Hendrie, Duncan Trussell, Joey Diaz
Release Date:  April 20, 2020
Rated:  Rated TV-MA
Image Courtesy of Entertainment Weekly.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Finishing College From my Childhood Bedroom - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020   Daisy Scott
On March 18, I moved back into my childhood bedroom. As I unpacked my suitcase 
and backpack and placed the cilantro plant I had started growing in San Diego on my 
windowsill, I felt like I was watching a movie of my motions rather than experiencing 
them myself. 
It’s not that I have an issue with being home. My parents are extremely supportive, 
and my younger sister, Bonnie, is my best friend. I recognize that I come from a place 
of privilege,  considering that I come from a stable household and that my family has 
the ability to  quarantine and work from home. I don’t need to worry about food, 
housing insecurity, or a  faulty Internet connection interrupting my classes. Many of 
my fellow classmates unfortunately  cannot say the same.
Rather, as I cleared out my bookshelf of old high school binders to make room for my 
college notebooks, I felt a deep sense of conflict. On the one hand, being home was 
nice. I found myself feeling comforted at being able to partake in everyday household 
rituals, like eating dinner together, or helping my dad make pancakes, or going for a 
walk around the block with my mom. Stepping back into life here was familiar — afterAccessed: 6/2/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Finishing College From my Childhood Bedroom - UCSD Guardian
all, I grew up here. 
Yet another part of me resisted this abrupt change. I couldn’t help but feel like I wasn’t  
supposed to be here. I noticed that now my knees almost hit the underside of the desk I 
used  throughout high school. Having not brought all of my clothes from San Diego, I 
was forced to  revisit what I left behind in my closet when I moved out. Surrounded by 
memories of my  childhood, I felt almost like a teenager again, only trapped. As 
someone who enjoys being busy  and being around people, I was used to being on 
campus or with friends most days from about 9  a.m. to 7 p.m., often later if there were 
events I wanted to attend. Practically every aspect of my life involved my daily campus 
interactions. This sudden shift to a confined existence back in my hometown made me 
feel like I was losing all sense of my life, and somehow my identity, pre-quarantine.
Looking back, I should have been kinder to myself, rather than giving myself 
counterproductive pep talks to “power through.” In that first week home, I repressed as 
much tension as I could until something happened, usually a minor inconvenience, that 
just made me cry. And then I felt guilty, because it felt selfish to feel frustrated over 
personal matters when so many others are dealing with far more serious situations. 
There wasn’t any singular moment that broke this vicious cycle. I’m still struggling with 
trying to not repress my emotions as I navigate my final weeks of college and look 
toward my future. But about two weeks into quarantine, Bonnie made a decision on 
where she was going to go to college in the fall. Getting to watch my sister’s excitement 
and joy as she opened her acceptance letter made me feel the most normal I had since 
this whole thing began. We didn’t rush to worry about whether or not her school would 
be able to resume in-person classes in the fall, or wonder what the logistics of her 
future dorm life would be. We simply celebrated. It wasn’t until later that I realized that 
I would have missed that moment if I was still in San Diego. Bonnie would have 
certainly called me, but a phone call would not have captured the genuity of that 
moment. 
Then I realized that as strange as these circumstances are, this will probably be the last 
time all four members of my family will be living under one roof. Bonnie will be 
beginning college in September — hopefully being able to live on campus by then — and 
I’m applying for jobs that, if I get them, will lead to moving out again. As much as I still 
wish that I could see my friends and attend classes on campus, this new perspective has 
helped me in not only accepting the situation, but also appreciating and opening up to 
my family more as we all adjust to this new lifestyle.Accessed: 6/2/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Finishing College From my Childhood Bedroom - UCSD Guardian
For instance, Bonnie and I have taken to going on almost daily two-mile walks around 
our neighborhood. When I first moved back home, I started walking this course by 
myself, convinced that some fresh air and solitude would help me cope. Now, Bonnie 
joins me and tells  me all about her classes and worries, as well as cracking jokes about 
the kids in her Zoom  classes. Like me, she is also experiencing the sudden removal 
from her campus life, knowing  that she won’t see a lot of her classmates again since 
they’re graduating and going to different  schools. I’m glad for the chance to be able to 
support her during this time and equally grateful  for her supporting me. 
I’ve also been able to spend more time with my parents. The first three weeks I was 
home, I was still finishing up my honors thesis, part of which is about my grandparents 
who passed away  when I was in high school. Revisiting themes of grief is difficult even 
in the best of times, but  trying to write about them from my childhood desk during a 
pandemic was verging on  overwhelming. Being able to talk with my mom about our 
family history not only helped me  with the process of finishing my thesis, but allowed 
us to connect over  remembering shared  memories. Reviewing these memories also 
reminded me of just how much of a rock my mom is  for our family and made me 
appreciate her efforts more to take care of us now. 
As for my dad, I’ve been enjoying being able to talk with him in person again. My dad 
would be  the first to tell you that he isn’t a big talker, and so whenever I called home 
from San Diego I  always felt like I wasn’t able to converse for very long with him on the 
phone. But now that I’m  home, I’m noticing that we talk far more often and about a 
wider array of topics. For example,  the other morning as I was washing my breakfast 
dishes, he walked in and began telling me all  about a Steinbeck book he’s been reading. 
He’s also been very interested in a history class I’m  currently enrolled in about pirates 
and remembers to ask me each Monday, Wednesday, and  Friday for whatever facts I’ve 
learned. The way our conversations begin so spontaneously and  easily now reminds me 
of the mornings my dad drove me to high school, when we’d sometimes  linger in the 
drop-off just so one of us could finish a sentence.
I’m fortunate — my time in quarantine, while undoubtedly stressful, has been made 
better by the presence of my family. I know my experience is not relatable for everyone, 
but I hope that if there’s one message I hope readers take away from my Quarantine 
Chronicle, it’s to appreciate your loved ones during this time. Family isn’t always 
something defined by blood; it’s whoever you love and feel like you can be yourself 
around. If you don’t live with whoever that is for you, call or text them, because trying 
to power on by ourselves is not a sustainable way to get through this. And we will get 
through it. Accessed: 6/2/2020 Society has a Toxic Obsession with Productivity - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020  Pankhuri  Kohli 
When I first began to shelter in place, the idle time made my mind turn to mush. As a 
high-achieving college student, I used to find solace in completing task after task. 
However, the  ongoing pandemic interrupted my plans, from big ones I had made 
months in advance, to smaller ones I used to make daily. While at first I could not 
help but feel upset, recognizing that  people are facing deeply serious and challenging 
problems due to COVID-19 has put things in  perspective. Now, I realize that it is a 
privilege that my biggest worry during this time is finding  something to do. Still, the 
frustration I and many others feel with having downtime is important  to note because 
it stems from larger issues; American society is obsessed with productivity, which 
discourages students like me from taking time to  relax, exacerbates mental health 
issues, and limits functioning.
While the solution may seem as simple as setting aside more time for ourselves, 
structural realities and societal pressures have taken the ability to make that decision 
out of people’s  control. Ultimately, the idea that time must be used to produce and 
achieve is rooted in history. As such, systemic practices have long propagated the 
idea, further entrenching it into American culture. For example, the fact that workers 
in all sectors have workweeks of  40 hours or more shows that the  workplacesAccessed: 6/2/2020 Society has a Toxic Obsession with Productivity - UCSD Guardian
normalize overwork as the standard. Moreover, the situation worsens across  lines of class, 
race, and gender, with women more likely to hold multiple jobs, and people of color — 
especially women of color —more likely to work in jobs  that do not offer paid leave. Thus, 
American work practices discourage downtime and prevent some people from having any 
at all. 
Furthermore, this deep-rooted prioritization of productivity means that even when people 
are not at work or school, they face pressure to achieve and perform.
Even in their free time, people feel pushed to curate their personal lives because social 
media commodifies them. People are spending more of their free time on their phones 
and for young people that means they are continuously engaged in social media. This is 
concerning because companies design social media applications to be addictive and 
mindless. However, excessive time on social media is linked to increased anxiety levels. As 
a result, even though engaging with social media feels as simple as idle scrolling, it is 
hardly relaxing. Instead, when people engage with social media, they fall into the traps of 
presenting their personal lives as impressively as they can and comparing themselves with 
the best depictions of their peers.  Consequently, even people’s downtime ends up 
pressuring them to meet  expectations.
Unfortunately, the fact that people have less true downtime has serious consequences for 
their health, personal growth, and happiness. For one, the pressure for productivity and 
increased social media usage encourages perfectionism, which is linked to depression and 
eating disorders. Furthermore, without downtime, people lose out on boredom. While 
that may not seem particularly detrimental, boredom often acts as an opportunity for 
individuals to check in with themselves and evaluate how they are spending their time 
and efforts. By doing so, people can become more mindful in their lives, comfortable in 
handling negative emotions and thoughts, and gain the focus necessary to restart work 
more effectively. Moreover, time spent away from sources of stress and external pressures 
is necessary to pause the blurring of days and experiences that comes from constant  
productivity. Ultimately, this separation is helpful because it allows people to jump-start 
their creativity, get in touch with  themselves, and as counterintuitive as it may seem, be 
more productive.
Consequently, because downtime is necessary for people’s health and productivity, it is 
essential for societal and economic functioning. As such, society needs to stop separating 
people’s roles as citizens and economic actors from their humanity. Accordingly, 
employers need to acknowledge that their employees’ mental health is an asset to their Accessed: 6/2/2020 Society has a Toxic Obsession with Productivity - UCSD Guardian
productivity and ensure  their workers have time to relax. Similarly, social media 
corporations need to learn that because  their users’ mental health and ability to be 
consumers are interconnected, it is in their best  interest to make sure their 
applications do not lead to destructive mindsets. Still, these shifts in  structural 
attitudes and actions will take long-term collective efforts. However, while we work  
towards them, there are things we can do in the present to challenge the productivity-
centric culture. After all, many of us are in a rare position to embrace newfound free 
time and, in the  process of doing so, lessen the damage of a global pandemic for those 
who cannot afford to slow  down. 
Therefore, as the COVID-19 pandemic progresses, it is important to remember that 
having less  to do is a sign of privilege. After all, countless people still cannot afford 
downtime and those  who can often only do so at the cost of their jobs and incomes. 
Still, those of us that can afford  free time see it negatively because of decades of 
messaging and a culture that encourages  constant activity. Unsurprisingly, many 
people feel strongly about free time, with some upset  they have too much of it and 
others longing for more. Either way, the situation reveals deep-seated problems in the 
way society treats the human need to relax and unwind. And right now,  one way to 
address those issues is by slowing down, if you can, and encouraging others to do the  
same.
Now more than ever, letting ourselves slow down helps us and others.
Photo by Kevin Ku  on Unsplash.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Social Media Influencers must stop Spreading COVID-19 Conspiracy Theories - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020   Julia Nee 
The production of conspiracy theory content from media influencers adds to the 
exponential  rise of conspiracy theory popularity. The rise of conspiracy theories 
undermines the work and  research of professionals, especially during the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The nature of the COVID-19 pandemic introduces uncertainties surrounding many 
aspects of  the virus, such as the mortality rate, health precautions, and the virus’ 
origin. Furthermore, the source and spread of the conspiracy theories associated 
with COVID-19 come from influential  platforms like The Epoch Times. These  
conspiracy theories create detrimental effects on the  credibility of healthcare 
professionals, which directly affect individuals’ health and safety .
Some COVID-19 conspiracy theories directly affect the health of individuals. During 
a viral pandemic, this can quickly become a public safety concern. Professional 
conspiracy theorists like David Icke and InfoWars’ Alex Jones support the 
conspiracy theory that COVID-19 does not actually exist. Icke and Jones propose 
that COVID-19 is just a plot to take away our freedoms. This theory encouragesAccessed: 6/4/2020 Social Media Influencers must stop Spreading COVID-19 Conspiracy Theories - UCSD Guardian
individuals to believe that they do not need to take part in quarantining or social  
distancing. Moreover, influencers like Alex Jones and Dr. Joseph Mercola promote 
the conspiracy theory that COVID-19 is a plot by big pharmaceutical companies. 
Jones and Dr. Mercola used this conspiracy to sell their vitamin products, which 
supposedly can cure or  prevent the virus. These particular conspiracy theories 
undermine the real dangers of COVID-19 and erode the importance of healthcare 
professionals’ research. Conspiracy theories like these affect the individual who 
believes that COVID-19 does not actually exist. 
While the above COVID-19 conspiracy theories affect the people who believe in the 
conspiracy theories,  other COVID-19 conspiracy theories  target other individuals. 
This results in threats or violence. For example, a theory  which right-wing 
influencers and  QAnon supporters  suggest— that Dr. Anthony Fauci is a secret 
member of the “deep state” and  is trying to undermine the government — has led to  
death threats  against Dr. Fauci. This conspiracy theory about Dr. Fauci has spread 
across various social media platforms and received thousands of shares and 
retweets.  Similarly, the theory that COVID-19 escaped from a Chinese lab came from 
an almost-hour-long video produced by the Epoch Times. This has resulted in anti-
Asian American hate crimes. This particular conspiracy theory has made its way into 
mainstream media like  the Washington Post and the UK Times, even though only a 
minority of the United States population believes the theory. The amount of 
coverage and airtime given to the  conspiracy theories regarding Dr. Fauci and  
COVID-19’s origin provide these claims with a false sense of credibility. The amount 
of coverage  and airtime allows these conspiracy theories a surprising amount of 
influence within the media.  The impact of these conspiracy theories in the media 
diverts audiences’ attention away from the recommendations of healthcare 
professionals to those of scapegoats. 
The issue with influential individuals spreading or starting conspiracy theories, 
especially during uncertain times, is how misinformation will spread and how many 
individuals will believe it. 
During the quarantine, individuals with social platforms have a responsibility to 
avoid spreading conspiracy theories that might add to the confusion about 
COVID-19. Many influencers and celebrities are already using their platforms to help 
spread and reinforce research done by healthcare professionals. The influencers’ and 
celebrities’ platforms allow their message to reach many individuals. To ensure the 
safety of others, it is the responsibility of influential individuals to be conscious of 
the content they are producing during the COVID-19 pandemic.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Social Media Influencers must stop Spreading COVID-19 Conspiracy Theories - UCSD Guardian
Photo by  Tom Radetzki on Unsplash.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020   Tori Anderson 
We are back for our second workout! I hope you all enjoyed the lower body workout 
last week,  and if you haven’t done it yet, give it a try because you will break a sweat 
and it will leave you  sore but feeling good. This week, I have an upper body workout, 
which will target the shoulders  and the back. It is starting to heat up and so it is 
perfect for you all to do it outside and burn  those extra calories. I did this workout in 
the garage, and, by the end of it, I was dripping sweat. 
This workout is not too difficult, but it definitely gives you a good burn. I know many 
of you may  not have dumbbells at home, so I demonstrated with a bottle of bleach as 
my weight to give you  ideas of alternatives to use. The whole point is to just add in 
extra weight to push yourself and  help build that muscle! All you need for this 
workout  is a resistance band — if you have one — ,  extra weight — dumbbells, water 
jug, bleach, etc. — and an elevated surface. Play your favorite  playlist and let’s warm 
up!Accessed: 6/4/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
10 minute jog or 30 minute walk
Stretch
Arm Circles
15 seconds each side, repeat twice
Behind the Head Single Arm Stretch  
Hold for 15 each
Cross Body Single Arm Stretch  Hold 
for 15 each
Resistance Band Shoulder Stretch  
20 each side, repeat twice
Accessed: 6/4/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
Shoulder Press
•Three sets of 15
•Start with shoulders and elbows in a straight line with arms bent
•Push your weights directly up
•The inner side of the weights should be above the middle of your head
•Slowly bring out and down
Front Raises
•Three sets of 15
•Start with weights in front of you with your elbows slightly bent
•Raise up and lower slowly back down
Lateral Raises
•Three sets of 15
•Weights to the side of you with your elbows slightly bent
•Lift up and turn your hands inward slightly (all in one motion)
•Act like you’re pouring a glass of water
•Raise until your arm is in a straight line then lower back down
Incline Push-up
•Three sets of 12
•Place hands slightly farther than shoulder-width apart on your elevated surface
•Make sure your body is in a straight line and engage your core
•Push down and up (do not let your hips sink in)
Decline Push-up
•Three sets of 12
•Place your feet on the elevated surface
•Place hands slightly farther than shoulder width apart on the ground
•Make sure your body is in a straight line and engage your core
•Push down and up (do not let your hips sink in)
Accessed: 6/4/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
Resistance Band Single Arm Rows
•Three sets of 15
•Wrap your resistance band around a pole or anything with height
•Slightly bend your back and knees
•With one arm grab the band and pull it straight back to your side
•Squeeze and then release back up
SuperMans
•Three sets of 15
•Lay your stomach on the ground with your arms out in front of you
•Lift your chest and arms up and bring your arms back to the side of you simultaneously
•Squeeze and then release back to starting position
Flutter Kicks
•Three sets of 20
•Sit down and place your hands behind your back, either shoulder-width apart or in a
triangle and place behind your back
•Lean back at a slight angle with your legs straight out and elevated
•Do small side to side motion crossing your legs
Toe Touches
•Three sets of 20
•Lay down on your back and raise your legs up directly above your hips
•Lift your shoulder blades off the ground and touch your toes with your hands
Bicycles
•Three sets of 20
•Lay down on your back and engage your core
•Lift your shoulder blades off the ground and place hands behind your head
•Bring one arm forward with the opposite leg and then switch
Accessed: 6/4/2020 Let’s Get Physical: Quarantine Edition Part 3 - UCSD Guardian
Resistance Band Leg Raises
•Three sets of 20
•Place band around a heavy or stable object
•Lay down on your back and place your feet within the band
•Slowly bring your legs up towards your chest and then back down
•If you cannot go all the way up, it is okay because the bands limit your range of
motion
I hope this workout shows how you can make use of anything and still get a good workout  
in. Next week, I’ll be posting a high-intensity interval training workout to get our heart 
rates up  and sweat like no other. I hope you all are staying safe and healthy, both mentally 
and physically!
Accessed: 6/4/2020 Unpacking the Highs and Lows of the 2020 NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020   Hayden  Wellbeloved 
The 2020 NFL Draft took place last week from April 23 to April 25. For the 32 teams, 
it was a  chance to reload their rosters with new and young talent. For the prospects, it 
was the  culmination of years of hard work and effort. Though the virtual format kept 
us from seeing  handshakes with Commissioner Roger Goodell and fancy suits, the 
inside looks the newest  players gave us into their homes provided fans with 
something special during quarantine, giving  them something to look forward to. 
Here, we take a look at a few teams who drew the most hype  and at how the draft will 
shape the 2021 season.
Green Bay Packers
After ending last season one game away from the Super Bowl, the Green Bay Packers 
did everything they could to revamp their team so that the Packers and Aaron 
Rodgers could make another championship run.
Except the Packers did almost the exact opposite.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Unpacking the Highs and Lows of the 2020 NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
In the first surprise pick of the draft, the Packers traded up to take Utah State 
University quarterback Jordan Love with the 25th overall selection. Love is an 
interesting, but raw,  quarterback prospect. He has all the physical traits — size, 
mobility, and arm talent — and his  highlights show someone who can throw on the 
run, improvise when the play breaks down, and  deliver the ball downfield with 
precision. But he struggled with decision-making and consistent  play his final year in 
college, throwing 17 interceptions. It’s not shocking that a team took a shot  at Love in 
the first round. It’s shocking that the Packers did it.
Rodgers is still on the team. Though his play has fallen over the past few years, 
Rodgers is still playing at a high level. The Packers just signed Rodgers to a record-
setting contract in 2018. The team is tied to Rodgers for at least two more years. He 
has declined from elite to very good, which still shouldn’t necessitate drafting his 
replacement, especially considering the team’s other needs. The Packers desperately 
need a wide receiver behind Davante Adams. In one of the deepest wide receiver 
classes in history, the team spent none of their nine picks on a wideout.
The rest of the Packers’ draft can be explained by Matt LaFleur’s new vision for the 
team. After being run into the ground by Kyle Shanahan and the San Francisco 49ers, 
LaFleur has been convinced that the Packers’ offense needs to go through the run-
game. To that end, Green Bay took Boston College running back A.J. Dillon in the 
second round, University of Cincinnati tight-end and fullback Josiah Deguara, and 
three interior offensive linemen in the sixth round. Like the Love selection, the Dillon 
pick is puzzling. With Aaron Jones and Jamaal Williams still on the roster, it seemed 
wasteful to spend a second-round pick on a third-string running back. The Deguara 
pick is the Packers’ attempt at a Kyle Juszczyk-type player — if it wasn’t clear that the 
Packers were trying to imitate the 49ers.
Denver Broncos
John Elway and the Denver Broncos are committed to the Drew Lock era in Denver. 
For this draft, the Broncos’ main goal was surrounding their second-year quarterback 
with as many weapons as possible. The Broncos took advantage of the deep wide 
receiver class, spending their first two picks on wideouts. They nabbed Jerry Jeudy 
from the University of Alabama in the first round and K.J. Hamler from Pennsylvania 
State University in the second. Jeudy is one of the best route-runners in the draft and 
has the speed to take the top off a defense. Hamler is a smaller receiver — measuring 
in at 5’9” and 178 lbs. — but he is also fast and great after the catch. The Broncos alsoAccessed: 6/4/2020 Unpacking the Highs and Lows of the 2020 NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
The Broncos also took Louisiana State University center Lloyd Cushenberry III, who 
fell to them in the third round. Cushenberry has long arms, big hands, and strength, 
and he is a  potential day-one starter at guard or center.
Elway hasn’t found much success with the Broncos post-Peyton Manning, but things 
could be  looking up at Mile High Stadium. The Broncos look set at wide receiver, with 
Jeudy and Hamler  supporting their number one wideout Courtland Sutton. Sutton 
struggled against double and  triple teams last season because the Broncos had no 
other receiving threats. The arrival of Jeudy  and Hamler should change that. The 
Broncos’ new offensive coordinator, Pat Shurmur, likes to  use a lot of three receiver 
sets, so having a full receiver corps will be key to their offense. Expect  to see Sutton, 
along with Jeudy and Hamler on the field at the same time, stretching out the  defense. 
The Cushenberry pick also gives them some much needed interior line help. With this  
draft, Elway has given Lock a solid supporting cast. And the Broncos still have a great 
defense  led by Von Miller and head coach Vic Fangio. If the Broncos weren’t in the 
AFC West and didn’t  have to play the Kansas City Chiefs twice a year, I’d say they have 
a shot at the playoffs next  season.
Las Vegas Raiders
The Las Vegas Raiders took a similar approach to Denver in what seems to have 
become an arms race in the AFC West. While the Broncos used the draft to add 
offensive power to surround Lock, the Raiders did the same to try and keep up with 
Patrick Mahomes II and the division rival Chiefs. Head coach Jon Gruden and general 
manager Mike Mayock had two first-round selections and addressed two glaring needs 
on both sides of the ball by drafting the speedy University of Alabama receiver Henry 
Ruggs III and cornerback Damon Arnette out of Ohio State University. Ruggs was one 
of the more highly coveted receivers in this historic wide receiver class due to his 4.29 
speed, and there’s no doubt Gruden is licking his chops thinking about this new 
offensive weapon he’ll have next season. Gruden and the Raiders already play Tyreek 
Hill twice a year, now they’ll have their own to unleash. Arnette at 19 was a bit of a 
reach for a prospect that is undersized to play corner on the outside. But it does 
address a need — the Raiders were 25th in pass defense last year (256.7) — and 
Gruden and Mayock have proved that they’re more than willing to stay put and draft a 
player they like, even if it’s a reach. Just look back to last year when they drafted Clelin 
Ferrell 4th overall. The Day 2 and 3 picks were where  the Raiders struck gold and 
continued to change the culture there under the new Gruden regime. They added two 
more receivers in the 3rd round in Lynn Bowden Jr. and Bryan  Edwards while alsoAccessed: 6/4/2020 Unpacking the Highs and Lows of the 2020 NFL Draft - UCSD Guardian
solidifying their secondary by selecting Clemson University safety Tanner  Muse and 
nickel corner Amik Robertson. In addition to Robertson, Las Vegas also took falling  
interior offensive lineman John Simpson in round 4, although many had him pegged 
as a round 2 or 3 player. Both Bowden and Edwards are absolute dawgs, who aren’t 
afraid to step in your  face and step up to a challenge. In a crowded Alabama wide 
receiver room, full of possibly 4 first  round receivers, Ruggs was the leader of that 
group. Muse, Simpson, and Arnette all come from  heavily successful college programs 
and already have a history of winning. It’s hard to project  how all these prospects will 
do right after the draft, but Gruden and Mayock definitely deserve  some credit for 
drafting players that will continue to build a solid culture in Las Vegas.
Dallas Cowboys
The Dallas Cowboys also had a terrific all around draft scooping up players of need 
often at great value for new head coach Mike McCarthy. The University of Oklahoma 
receiver CeeDee Lamb was considered the top receiver of the draft for many analysts, 
so it must have been a huge surprise to Dallas and Jerry Jones to see him still 
available for their pick at 17 overall. With rumblings of Philadelphia Eagles looking to 
trade up for Lamb all week, the Cowboys hit two birds with one stone in selecting the 
Oklahoma product by constructing a top tier wide receiver trio and taking away Lamb 
from a hated rival they play two times a year. Lamb is a do-it-all receiver who can 
make you miss, catch contested passes, and turn a 5-yard catch into an80-yard 
touchdown. Just turn on his highlight tape and you’ll see why Mel Kiper Jr. calls him 
“CeeDee YAC,” standing for yards after catch. Dak Prescott and company were lights 
out against middle of the road teams last year, but failed to get the job done against a 
lot of playoff caliber teams. The addition of Lamb paired with an already potent 
offense should be able to get them over the hump in 2020.
The Cowboys followed up their Lamb selection with a handful of great picks on Days 2 
and 3 including Trevon Diggs, Neville Gallimore, Tyler Biadasz, and Bradlee Anae, all 
who can have starting or rotational roles this year. Diggs, cornerback out of the 
University of Alabama and younger brother to Buffalo Bills’ Stefon Diggs, was mocked 
as early as 19 overall in some mock drafts and Dallas was able to get him in the second 
round. He’s not as polished as some of the other corner prospects, as he converted 
from wide receiver to corner at Alabama, but his ball skills are elite and he’ll be a day 
one starter in light of the departure of Byron Jones. Gallimore and Anae are both 
defensive lineman with lots of intrigue. Gallimore was a standout at the Senior Bowl 
and can be a solid rotational piece right away as a big mauler in the middle behindGerald McCoy and Dontari Poe. Defensive end Anae, who was a menace at The 
University of Utah with 29.5 sacks, could crack the starting lineup across from 
Demarcus Lawrence given the need there. Biadasz was generating some first-round buzz 
earlier in the year but ultimately fell due to injury concerns. If he’s able to bounce back 
from college injuries and stay healthy in the NFL he could be a late round steal and fill 
the shoes of recently retired Travis Frederick.
Art by Anthony TranAccessed: 6/4/2020 Unpacking the Highs and Lows of the 2020 NFL Draft - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 6/4/2020 Prof. Fowler’s Take on Your Friends, Their Friends, and Their Friend’s Friends - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020  Daniel Carrillo
Who you have around you matters, and you matter to them. In fact, you 
matter to people you don’t even know, and you don’t even know how much they 
matter to you — at least according  to Dr. Fowler and his research.
What everyone you interact with thinks, feels, and does impacts you, and everything 
you feel,  think, and do, impacts them. All of these interactions over time form who 
we are and shape our  lives. Nobody could tell you that with more confidence than Dr. 
James H. Fowler, a professor of  political science and medicine at UC San Diego who 
has not only studied such phenomena  extensively, but also lives taking from, and 
feeding into, his own network.
Growing up, Dr. Fowler always thought he’d been influenced enough by professors 
after having two of them for parents. But after returning from his experience 
volunteering for the Peace  Corps in Ecuador from 1992 to 1994, the thought of 
becoming a professor suddenly seemed like  a pretty good deal to him.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Prof. Fowler’s Take on Your Friends, Their Friends, and Their Friend’s Friends - UCSD Guardian
“When I decided to apply to graduate school,” Dr. Fowler said, “I thought I would 
study Latin  American issues. But then when I went to graduate school, I started taking 
these classes — these  basic classes — in research methodology. And then I got really 
interested in math, which I  hadn’t been interested in a long time.”
Due to Dr. Fowler’s newfound love for statistics and math, his early work mostly 
focused on  voting behavior because “that’s where the data was,” Dr. Fowler explained. 
“It was before the  internet had taken off and become mainstream, around the 
beginning of the dot-com upswing.  So, if you were studying Latin America then you 
would be studying ten countries over the course of ten years then you would have 
maybe 100 observations you could work with.”
Naturally, Dr. Fowler was interested in finding more information and expanding his 
knowledge beyond what was presented to him. His search eventually led him to 
“social networks.” A social network is a group of interconnected people’s social 
interactions and personal relationships, which at the time was being driven to 
popularity due to the emergence of the internet. Due to the complexity of such 
networks, scientists oftentimes struggle to recreate successful representations for 
analysis. Platforms like Facebook provide a great starting point for developing current 
models used to represent social networks, because of their representation of people 
through their profiles, the connections between people as friendships, and statuses 
that can update over time. However, modern social media platforms were still under 
development  during the time of Dr. Fowler’s early work.
To learn more about how to develop these early models, Dr. Fowler visited the Santa 
Fe Institute, a well-respected think-tank equipped with the tools and minds to study 
the complex and sometimes-unintuitive part-to-whole relationship that each 
individual’s behavior has on the collective behavior of the social network. 
After his trip, Dr. Fowler eagerly applied his new knowledge on voting datasets.
“Because of this interest in math and methods, and this growing interest in social 
networks, and all the work all these physicists and computer scientists were doing, 
that was the beginning of me doing something that was novel,” Dr. Fowler said.
The work Dr. Fowler started on social networks was entirely new to the field of 
political science because, though the idea of a social network was well-known, the 
amount of people studied and the amount of information about those people in theAccessed: 6/4/2020 Prof. Fowler’s Take on Your Friends, Their Friends, and Their Friend’s Friends - UCSD Guardian
networks for his studies were orders of  magnitude higher than what had been done 
before.
Work on social networks started off small and extremely simplified, using  roughly 20 
children in a classroom as all the individuals in the network. As time progressed, 
though, the  networks got larger and began to include communities of about 100 people. 
Now, Dr. Fowler uses networks that account for millions of people  and the traits 
associated with each individual  too.
Because of this shift in scale, scientists were able to study things they didn’t even know 
they  could. This increase in scale allowed scientists to go from figuring out what social 
networks even  were, to answering questions like how do selected traits, such as obesity, 
voting behavior,  happiness, and smoking cessation, pass through these groups, or how 
much influence each  person actually has.
Dr. Fowler found that everyone has three degrees of influence, meaning that everything 
that a single person feels, thinks, and does, in their respective social network, impacts 
— and is impacted by — the actions of their friends, their friends’ friends, and their 
friends’ friends’ friends. This means that if one person has five close friends whom they 
interact with everyday,  who then have five close friends with whom they interact with 
everyday, who then have five  other close friends whom they interact with everyday, 
then that first person impacts and is  impacted by 125 people a day just by interacting 
with the first five people.
“If I don’t know anything about you, but I know something that your friend’s friend’s 
friend is  doing, I know something about you. That’s extraordinary!” Dr. Fowler  
exclaimed.
And Dr. Fowler admits his work isn’t flawless. “Human networks aren’t always like 
computer networks,” he said.“All these network models were generated based on an 
interest in networks of things, but my interest has always been networks between 
people.”
Over the years, Dr. Fowler’s admission that his work is incomplete has allowed him to 
receive input from and provide advice for newer studies that advance his work and his 
models of human networks.Accessed: 6/4/2020 Prof. Fowler’s Take on Your Friends, Their Friends, and Their Friend’s Friends - UCSD Guardian
On top of the constant updates that his work needs, his information also isn’t always 
received in  a positive light. To some, Dr. Fowler’s research makes them feel helpless 
and like they have no  control over their choices and actions.
“You have to turn that on its head,” Dr. Fowler explained. “We sometimes get 
depressed and  feel like we don’t have an impact on other people, but we don’t see that 
impact and that impact  spreads … You have the capacity to increase happiness, to 
increase cooperativeness, to increase  altruism, in your local network.You, yourself are 
exerting some of this influence. You have a  bigger influence than you think you do, so 
when you’re deciding what to do, instead of being  depressed by the responsibility, get 
excited by the opportunity!” 
Photo courtesy of  Dr. James H. Fowler.Accessed: 6/4/2020 The Last Dance and the Archaeology of Michael Jordan’s Legacy - UCSD Guardian
 April 26, 2020  Praveen Nair
If you’re most college students, what do you see Michael Jordan as? The name of a 
high-end  sneaker brand? The owner of a mediocre small-market NBA franchise? The 
face of a meme  synonymous with failure? But despite all that, Jordan has carried, and 
will forever carry, an aura around him that no other living American sports figure 
possesses. That aura is what makes  “The Last Dance”, the currently airing 
documentary series about Jordan that focuses on his  final season with the Bulls, such 
hallowed viewing for basketball fans. In a game where legacy is  everything, “The Last 
Dance” is Jordan’s emphatic elevator pitch, commanding — ensuring —that we never 
forget the heights of His Airness.
It’s important to remember that “The Last Dance,” like any documentary, has a clear 
message to send. After all, Jordan is on both sides of the camera — his production 
company, Jump 23, is involved in the documentary, and NBA commissioner Adam 
Silver has stated that no footage from the 1997 to 1998 season was used without 
Jordan’s permission. And in a way, Jordan is undertaking as much of a title defense in  
the present, against LeBron James, as he is in the documentary. Although, the playerAccessed: 6/4/2020 The Last Dance and the Archaeology of Michael Jordan’s Legacy - UCSD Guardian
who’s benefitted the most from “The Last Dance ” is probably  Scottie Pippen; judging by 
early reactions, the documentary seems to be doing for him what  “Hamilton” did for its 
namesake.
But despite that, “The Last Dance” portrays the turmoil within Jordan’s Chicago Bulls 
teams that the rose-tinted glasses of hindsight don’t allow us to see. Sure, the 
documentary casts Bulls  general manager Jerry Krause as the bad guy, but it also 
describes the mutual exasperation  Jordan and his teammates had for each other. After 
the release of the first two episodes, former  Bull and current Golden State Warriors 
head coach Steve Kerr said that the one thing that people would never truly understand 
about the Bulls’ dynasty was just how difficult of a journey it was. Kerr, by the way, 
having played in a successful three-peat run and coached an unsuccessful one, knows 
the pressure of expectations, injury, conflicting egos, and slumping motivations better 
than anybody.
Despite the intrigue of the Bulls on the court, the legend of Jordan outside of basketball 
is just as fascinating, if not more, to study from today’s perspective. It’s hard to 
understand just how big of a deal Michael Jordan was in the 1990s without seeing the 
way people have reacted to him around the world. Only Jordan could make Barack 
Obama, probably the most famous American since, into a “former Chicago resident,” as 
he is cheekily referred to in his interview in “The Last Dance”. 
Jordan, like basketball’s other folk heroes — Wilt Chamberlain and Kobe Bryant come 
to mind— , occupies this weird space where you can tell any story within reason about 
them, and it wouldn’t be all that hard to believe. We’re only a couple episodes into “The 
Last Dance,” and it’s too early to come to conclusions about its contents, but it faces the 
uphill battle of spinning a narrative about Jordan that, as a viewing public, wouldn’t 
make us look off into the distance and say, “Yeah, that was Michael.” Sure, we could 
describe him with his 30.1 points per game, 14 All-Star appearances, or five MVP 
awards, but we choose not to — the stories we tell about him will last longer and mean 
more than those stats could ever capture. 
Sports fans will always, explicitly or not, traffic in the idea of “legacy,” that elusive 
metric of greatness that drives the LeBrons and Durants of the world to become hated 
men in order to become champions. And of course, Jordan’s legacy is valuable in large 
part because it sells shoes, jerseys, and Hanes underwear, but his hold on our mutual 
psyche runs far deeper than that. It’s why every sports fan in the country can’t take their 
eyes off “The Last Dance,” because no matter whether or not it’s completely accurate,  
we all love a good superhero movie.