Accessed: 12/2/2020 The Rise of Yarn Bombing - UCSD Guardian
The Rise of Yarn Bombing
 December 1, 2020   Hannah Rosenberg 
Yarn bombing is an ever-growing street art movement that was born in the early-mid 2000s  
from the combined love of street art and fiber arts. Yarn bombing consists of covering,  
wrapping, or decorating objects in pieces of knit or crochet. While most forms of street art  
involve paint or drawings that are permanent, yarn bombing is impermanent as yarn can be  
easily removed from the surface it is attached to. Common yarn bombing sites include 
fences, trees, street sign poles, street light poles, and more.
Magda Sayeg, has been credited as the “mother of yarn bombing” ever since she covered a 
door handle inside her Houston Texas boutique in 2005. From there, Sayeg started a group 
of yarn bombers called the “Knitta Please” that worked on projects such as the iconic yarn 
bombed trolley buses, staircases, statues, and countless poles, and notably, the 100 
yarnbombed trees in front of the U.S. Capitol.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 12/2/2020 The Rise of Yarn Bombing - UCSD Guardian
Madga Sayeg’s artwork in Mexico City, Mexico
Watch Magda Sayeg’s TEDYouth talk here:
Accessed: 12/2/2020 The Rise of Yarn Bombing - UCSD Guardian
The yarn bombing movement has gained popularity in recent years, spreading around the 
world, and inspiring a wave of artists whose work excites eyes and Instagram feeds. London 
Kaye has become one of the most famous faces in yarn bombing, starting her journey in New 
York City after a ballet injury, and eventually making her way to Los Angeles where many 
pieces currently stand. As she explains it, yarn bombing “brings warmth into an urban 
environment.” Kaye has made a name for herself with countless viral yarn bombs including 
the iconic Los Angeles rainbows situated on the wall of The Paper Bag Princess on Melrose 
Ave. In addition, Kaye is arms deep in commercial commissions, including collaborations 
with brands such as Miller Lite for a Times Square billboard, Disney, Starbucks, and 
Champion, to name a few.
As an avid knitter from a young age, I discovered yarn bombing in my mid teens by accident 
when I decided to cover the dresser drawer knobs and door handles of my bedroom in 
crochet. Artists like Magda Sayeg and London Kaye then inspired me to take my love for 
crochet into the outdoors which led to my first true yarn bomb, a tree in the front yard of my 
family’s home. Watching neighbors stop to look at the burst of color while being somewhat 
anonymous was so much fun.
Accessed: 12/2/2020 The Rise of Yarn Bombing - UCSD Guardian
Yarn bombing can merge into art activism when it includes messages on topics that the yarn  
bomber finds important to spread. One of my recent yarn bombs is a piece inspired by the  
Black Lives Matter movement that I attached to a gate in my hometown neighborhood this  
summer. After less than two days, it was taken down by a neighbor who decided it was “too  
political.” Another neighbor happened to be driving by the right place at the right time and  
noticed it was being taken down. She pulled over and asked if she could at least keep it, and  
through yet another neighbor and the magic of the Facebook group community, the crochet  
was returned to me to find a different place to display it.
Accessed: 12/2/2020 The Rise of Yarn Bombing - UCSD Guardian
To me, the best part about yarn bombing is that anything goes. As long as one doesn’t block  
important street signage, the limits are as far as the eye can see. While yarn bombs can have a  
social impact-driven message, they can also simply be made to add a splash of color to a  
space. The world is our playground and yarn bombing can add a bit of joy to our lives  whether  
we are the makers or the passerby. If you are interested in yarn bombing, a great  place to start  
is by learning the basic building blocks of the crochet stitches like the chain  stitch, single 
crochet, and double crochet through YouTube video tutorials. Though it takes patience,  
nothing can  top watching your idea come to life and seeing the smiles yarn bombing can bring  
to those  around you!Accessed: 12/2/2020 XOXO, Guardian Gurl: Hot For Boss - UCSD Guardian
XOXO, Guardian Gurl: Hot For Boss
 December 1, 2020   Guardian Sta ff
Hi Guardian Gurl,
I think I have a crush on my “boss?” Well, I do. Basically, I joined this student org — which 
I’m totally passionate about — and I started in one committee and I really liked it and all 
was good! But then coronavirus hit and there was this just this supercalifragilistic girl who 
LED another one of the committees, who I thought was just the prettiest, coolest girl on 
the block. So, normally, I wouldn’t want to go into her committee, but, because of 
coronavirus, it was the only way I could even talk to her … but now she’s my “boss.” What 
do I do? I’m not even good at what she needs me to do! I barely know her and I’m crushing 
hard! I’m counting on you, Guardian Gurl!
Dear Hot for Boss, 
I do feel for you! First off, good on you for switching committees, that shows dedication!
You’re a true go-getter. 
Accessed: 12/2/2020 XOXO, Guardian Gurl: Hot For Boss - UCSD Guardian
You’re in a bit of a tricky situation, especially because of this pandemic. On one hand, it  
might not actually be worth acting on this. Since we’re all stuck at home, is she even still in  
San Diego or at home? Would y’all ever get to see each other? It’s very possible that if you  
confessed your love to her, not much could be done about it. Then, you would just continue  to 
stare longingly at your computer screen, pinning her square on Zoom. And no one wants to  
see that happening. 
However, here’s why I think you should go for it. First of all, do a vibe check before anything  
else. Do you think she could be feeling the same way? Does she seem eager to talk with you?
Small things. If yes, then it’s go time, homie. Best case scenario, she totally feels the same  way 
and y’all live happily ever after! Bonus points if you live near each other. Worst case  scenario, 
she says no, but this is where the pandemic is to your advantage: you probably will  never run 
into her in person! No awkward conversations about the weather while all you can  both think 
about is the cold rejection you received. Honestly, it’s a win-win. 
So, with that I leave you to go confess your love! 
Best of luck,
xoxo Guardian Gurl
“xoxo guardian gurl” is the UCSD Guardian’s newest advice column. Fill out the form at  
tinyurl.com/ask-guardian-gurl to ask Guardian Gurl any questions.Accessed: 12/2/2020 Tips For Living Through Daylight Savings Darkness - UCSD Guardian
Tips For Living Through Daylight Savings Darkness
 December 1, 2020   Colleen Conradi
It’s that time of year again: Colder weather, more time inside, and it’s dark out before 5 p.m. I  
know there are lots of people out there who love to see this time of year, but if you’re one of  
the many like me who need sunshine and warmth, I’ve got some ways to help you through the  
winter! 
Sunscreen : This one may sound a bit silly, but I swear by it! Take your favorite sunscreen 
scent — mine is good old Coppertone — and rub a little bit of it in on your wrist. Then, 
throughout your day, if you need a little summertime pick-me-up, take a big whiff of that 
sunblock! The scent works as a way to bring you back to sunshine and summertime in a time 
where neither of those can be found. 
Accessed: 12/2/2020 Tips For Living Through Daylight Savings Darkness - UCSD Guardian
Windows: Hopefully this one is a no brainer! During the day, open the blinds and let as  
much natural light in as you can. If it’s not too cold out, open the windows, too for some fresh  
air. 
Get Outside : If it’s possible, considering both weather and the pandemic, get outside! Go  for 
a walk, ride a bike, or even go for a drive. Fresh air and vitamin D can do nothing but help  
your mood and wellbeing. Accessed: 12/2/2020 Tips For Living Through Daylight Savings Darkness - UCSD Guardian
Music: Put together a playlist of your favorite summertime jams and create those warm  
vibes you’re missing. Extra points if you dance to get your blood pumping! When I’m feeling  
those winter blues and don’t feel motivated to get work done, I’ll put on my own summertime  
playlist and this helps me get going. 
Natural Light Lamp : You can always look online to buy lamps that are made to imitate  
natural light in your home. These are great for dorms or apartments that don’t get much light  
or don’t have enough windows to bring the sun inside. There are even some lights that are  
used to wake you up by creating a sort of simulated sunrise. 
Try Waking Up Early : Since the sun sets earlier, try getting yourself out of bed earlier if  
you can! Personally, this one is tough for me because I love to sleep in, but it does make a  
difference. When I sleep in and I wake up around noon, I only have about five-ish hours left  
of daylight, so trying to wake up a few hours earlier is worth the sunshine!Accessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
 December 3, 2020   Jocelyn Brossia 
An online petition  put on by the United Students Against Sweatshops Local 94 is 
demanding that UC San Diego Health reinstate two Black employees, Tamara Totten and 
Ashley Brunson, after they received notice that they were being laid off in June 2020. 
The petition accuses the layoffs as being racist, as they followed Totten’s filing of a 
discrimination report with HR in April 2020 and Totten’s meeting with the Director of 
Population Health and HR in May 2020.
The letter specifically demanded that the CEO of UCSD Health, Patty Maysent, rescind 
the layoffs and rehire Totten and Brunson. In addition to the petition, the page includes 
an email outline so that those concerned about the matter can send it directly to 
Maysent. At the time of this article’s publication on Dec. 3, the petition had over 940 
signatures collected out of the goal number of 1,600.
Accessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
Brunson was unable to interview with The UCSD Guardian.
In an interview with The Guardian, Totten attributes her experiences with discrimination as  a 
Care Navigator in the Population Health department to the arrival of a new supervisor. The  
issues culminated in a scenario where the supervisor accused Totten of being intoxicated at  
work. 
“Mind you, she never had any conversations enough with me to know maybe how my  
demeanor is or maybe how she would know how I am in the morning compared to the  
afternoon as a manager,” Totten said. “So one particular day, she decides to have a five-
minute meeting with me, and in this five-minute meeting, she came up with the conclusion  
that I came to work drunk. She went and told our director that she felt that I was intoxicated.  
So, when the director calls me in and asks me how I’m feeling and everything, […] she said,  
‘[The supervisor] felt that you was impaired because you didn’t understand nothing she was  
saying.’ I was like, ‘How did she come up with that conclusion?’ and I repeated back to her  
everything she said to me.”
According to Totten, this accusation came after eight months with the new supervisor.  
Examples of conflict provided by Totten included her alleged exclusion from discussion of  
protocol changes made by the new supervisor, then being reprimanded for failing to adhere  
to new guidelines. Totten also said that the new supervisor avoided making eye contact or  
individually meeting with her, and that the verbal disrespect persisted through Zoom calls  
when work became remote due to the pandemic. Additionally, the new supervisor delegated  
less responsibilities to her than other employees, resulting in Totten being reprimanded for  
completing fewer daily tasks than her peers.   
“It was a lot of back-and-forth like that to where, it was like I said, I ended up having to call  
the doctor ‘cause one day I just sat in the office and I just cried,” she shared. “Come 1 o’clock, 
I’m totally lost, I don’t know what direction to go in and I’m not thinking straight anymore 
after 1 o’clock. It got really bad for me.”
Totten’s layoff came two days after she returned from illness-related time off and was told it  
was due to budget cuts. Before this, when Totten met with HR to file a discrimination  
complaint, HR suggested holding a meeting with Totten and her supervisor. 
Totten was hesitant as she suspected she would face retaliation for such a complaint.  Accessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
“When I got laid off, I called [HR] and I said, ‘Hey, I told you I was gonna get laid off.’ And I  
did. To be in the medical field and to be prejudiced… I feel that she’s in the medical field just  
to make the money,” Totten said, regarding her supervisor. “She is not in it for the right  
reasons, because in the medical field, you have no room to be prejudiced — not only just the  
medical field — if you’re dealing with the public itself, any type of social service work,  
anything — you choose that kind of work, you should not have no room to be prejudiced.” 
The layoff significantly impacted Totten’s life, as what started off as relief from being away  
from the tumultuous work environment turned to concern. 
“As the time went on, it became more or less that I knew I was gonna have problems finding  
a job,” Totten said. “My frustration came to the point [where I realized] my age and my color  
was gonna stop me from getting a job anytime soon. I’ve lost my medical, I can’t go to the  
doctor, and like I said, I’m not old, but I’m not young either. My stress level is still high  
because it’s coming to that point now where it’s — my unemployment is running out and I  
still have no job and I have bills to pay.  I just try to take it one day at a time because I can’t  
get too stressed out because I have no medical and I can’t allow myself to get stressed out to  
whereas I’d probably end up having a nervous breakdown or having a stroke or something.” 
Totten is fighting against her layoff alongside Tanya Akel, Field Director from Teamsters  
Local 2010, which is the Union representing Totten and Brunson. 
“What I’m seeing with the layoffs of Ashley and Tammy is just despicable,” Akel said in an  
interview with The Guardian. “So out of over 30 employees that we represent in this  
department […], they were the only two Black women — the only two Black employees — and  
they were not the least senior, and the process for how they should’ve been laid off was not 
followed correctly, and so we filed five grievances, we filed an unfair labor practice charge.”
“Tanya — I can’t say enough about Tanya,” Totten shared regarding her time working with 
Akel. “I call her my hot red pepper. She is feisty and — she’s my hot pepper.”
As Field Director, Akel is working to get the womens’ layoffs rescinded by filing grievance 
complaints against the University.
“Since she’s covered by a Union, whenever there’s a violation of our contract, Union 
employees have rights that no other employees have that specifies how things are to beAccessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
 done,” Akel said. “And if they’re not done in accordance with the contract, then we can file  
what’s called a grievance. So, we have filed grievances for not complying with — for laying  
them off, even though they weren’t the least senior. We filed a grievance because we believe  
they discriminated against them. We filed a grievance because they kept a private contract  
employee that’s not Black — she’s doing Tammy’s job instead, so that was another 
grievance. Those are all violations in our contract article.”  
According to Akel, the grievances are ongoing due to the fact that UCSD has stated that the  
layoffs may not have strictly followed the outlined processes, but has yet to offer solutions. 
“They should recognize that there’s been a problem here,” Akel said. “Whether it’s conscious  
or unconscious, when the only two people to be laid off out of 30 are Black women that have  
been there longer, there’s a problem here. When a contract private/for-profit employee is  
kept instead, there’s a problem. When the procedures for layoffs are not done correctly,  
there’s a problem. When an employee goes to HR for help because they’re feeling  
discriminated against and then they’re laid off a month later, that’s a problem.”
Akel sees a lack of substantive action from the University, which has outlined their efforts to  
support diversity, equity, and inclusion.  
“We’re in a moment of a movement for Black lives, so for the University and for the  
Chancellor to all say, ‘Yes, we support inclusion, diversity, and we stand in solidarity with  
Black lives,’ and yet in their own institutions, they cover up, they turn a blind eye, they don’t  
address, they ignore, they perpetuate, they allow — that is a problem that we cannot sit still  
for,” Akel added. “These are two women that have families, that have children, that have  
grandchildren, that are good employees, and should be kept as UC San Diego Health  
employees. There’s no reason that they should continue to be laid off.”  
In light of her fight to get Totten and Brunson’s layoffs rescinded, Akel sees a broader 
message sent to the UCSD community. 
“Signing the petition, writing the head of the Health Department, writing the head of HR, 
writing the Chancellor — that’s the real solution, ‘cause it’s not just about Ashley and 
Tammy, it’s about all of the other Black employees and it’s about all of us having an 
environment where we’re consciously addressing discrimination and doing something 
about it,” Akel said. “So that’s even more important than grievances and legal and lawsuits 
and all of that kind of stuff.”Accessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Greyson Sims is a member of USAS and is working to  
garner student awareness for the fight to rescind the layoffs of Totten and Brunson.
“I think it’s important to see how much the University kind of blatantly does racist things like  
this,” Sims said. “This was a particularly egregious, obvious case […]; this is just the tip of the  
iceberg basically. […] The most important takeaway is that there’s a lot more, but hopefully,  
the University will start now with rescinding the layoffs of Tammy and Ashley.” 
The UCSD Black Student Union  added the  USAS’s petition to their  Linktree,  which Sims  
believes helped  garner attention and support for the cause. 
“They’ve shared it, and so that got a lot of signatures,” he said. “Definitely the Black  
community at UCSD — Black students — are aware and see that the University hasn’t done  
anything [and that] they would do this in the first place.”
“Once the petition got around 700 signatures, I sent them all to Patty Maysent,” Sims  
furthered. “Outside of that, they haven’t commented yet. I did sign up for a — there was the 
[UC] Regents meeting, and I signed up for  public comment, and I don’t think anyone was able 
to talk about it because they only have a  certain amount of people give comments, so they 
didn’t happen to want to hear me speak.”
Maysent did not respond to The UCSD Guardian’s request for an interview.  
To Totten, the support that she has seen from the UCSD student community means a lot.  
“The word needs to get out there,” Totten said. “It’s not just gonna take me and Tanya. So, it  
really needs to be brought to awareness some kind of way, so whenever I talk to any of you  
students and everything, it’s like you guys are awesome. I really appreciate it. […] I feel lucky, 
and it also helps me to know when I have you guys and Tanya in my corner, it gives me a little  
bit more ease. Because it’s like, I might have no job or whatever, but the awareness is coming  
out there about UC San Diego and how they treat their employees, which makes me feel even 
more better.”  
Jacqueline Carr, Executive Director of Communications for UCSD Health, provided The  
Guardian with background information regarding the layoffs through email correspondence; 
however, the university does not comment on the employment statuses of individuals.  Accessed: 12/10/2020 UCSD Health Faces Demands to Rescind Allegedly Discriminatory Layof fs of Two Black Employees - UCSD Guardian
“The reasons for the layoffs were multifactorial but all rooted in the financial reality of the  
health system in 2019. Driving factors were primarily challenges with reimbursements and  
rising costs of operations, all later exacerbated by the pandemic,” Carr wrote. “Due to these  
reasons, UC San Diego Health made the incredibly difficult decision to lay off 72 employees  
early this year. In addition to layoffs, a number of cost-cutting measures were implemented  
including department restructurings, elimination of vacant positions, reductions in time, and  
a hiring freeze.”
Carr went on to say that UCSD Health did its best to support employees who were laid off  
during this period.
“As an institution and as individuals committed to the caring and health of others, we did  
everything possible to assist our staff during that time,” Carr continued in the email.
“Employees who were laid off were offered guidance throughout the transition including  
career development support and, in some cases, the identification of alternative employment  
options.”
Totten hopes to attract awareness to her struggle and the discrimination she faced in her  time 
with UCSD. 
“I know this could never happen, but […] let someone know what a lot of the UCSD  
employees are going through,” Totten said. “It will really be heard then. So, like, I just still  feel 
that word — it’s spreading the word.”
As of this writing, Totten and Brunson have not been reinstated by UCSD Health. The UCSD  
Guardian will continue to report developments as they occur.
Image provided by UC San Diego News CenterAccessed: 12/10/2020 Canceling Cancel Culture - UCSD Guardian
Canceling Cancel Culture
 December 6, 2020   Raymond Tran  
From the birth of YouTube to the rapid growth of TikTok, ordinary people have been able 
to garner attention on social media apps with just a smartphone and an idea. The term
“influencer”  was coined to describe the creators in these positions that have the ability to 
influence the behavior or opinions of their followers.
While most influencers start off with supportive fanbases, the more attention they  
receive, the more their flaws and mistakes are emphasized. The phenomenon of  
promoting the  “canceling” of people, brands, and companies due to offensive or  
problematic remarks or ideologies is referred to as Cancel Culture.  The intention behind  
Cancel Culture is to hold celebrities and influencers accountable for their mistakes and 
call them out for their problematic behavior. However, the motivation and means of 
Cancel Culture have become tainted as many use it as an excuse to bully celebrities rather 
than bring to light their mistakes. Major reform is needed — on both a personal and 
social level — in order to achieve the originally intended goal of accountability.  
Accessed: 12/10/2020 Canceling Cancel Culture - UCSD Guardian
TikTok content creators Charlie and Dixie D’Amelio were recently criticized for their  
behavior in a YouTube video  where  many claimed that they acted ungrateful and rude 
toward their chef. Charlie proceeded to  lose roughly 1,000,000 followers  within the first few  
days of her  being “canceled.” However, after many other influencers such as James Charles  
came to her  defense, she ended up gaining a net worth of 2,000,000 followers. This back-
and-forth  highlights the inconsistent nature of “canceling” someone and how ineffective this 
method  has become. 
The masses on social media pick and choose who they want to cancel and for what reasons.  
While there are creators accused of child grooming who still have a platform, such as Tony  
Lopez , people choose to focus on how the D’Amelios acted during a family  dinner.  
While Lopez continues to receive comments about these allegations, his TikToks continue to  
get millions of likes and views. His TikTok account also remains verified and has over  
20,000,000 followers. Additionally, Lopez’s follower count  has actually increased this past 
month, even  after these allegations were made public. This calls into question: what 
constitutes being  canceled?
Influencers who were once looked up to, such as Shane Dawson, Jeffery Star, and Trisha  
Paytas, have been “canceled” on multiple occasions. However, their presence on the internet  
has remained unchanged. Although these content creators are no longer idolized, they are 
seen as separate, exempt from what should be considered morally acceptable for ordinary  
people because of the amusement people get from hating on them. 
Many have pointed out the flaws of Cancel Culture, highlighting how it’s toxic and doesn’t  
do anything to solve actual problems.
Even President Barack Obama commented on the phenomenon in October 2019, “That’s not 
activism. That’s not bringing about change. If all you’re doing is casting stones, you’re  
probably not going to get that far. That’s easy to do.”
When we look up to people who are successful, we purposely turn away from their flaws or 
use that energy to criticize influencers in an unproductive manner. Our obsession with  
celebrities, whether it’s negative or positive, has led to a toxic cycle of “stanning” them, 
finding out they did something problematic, and then using that energy to spam them with  
hateful messages or continuing to support them despite their lack of accountability.Accessed: 12/10/2020 Canceling Cancel Culture - UCSD Guardian
General examples of fans excusing problematic behavior include Lana Del Rey criticizing 
Ariana Grande, Beyonce, and Nicki Minaj for the sexual nature of their songs as well as Ellen  
DeGeneres  allegedly mistreating her employees. Del Rey’s fans continue to support  her 
despite her half-felt apology that did not address the problematic nature of her comment.  
DeGeneres’ show also continues to receive support and is currently on its 18th season. 
We need to put our own personal preferences aside and objectively look at the wrongdoings  
of people in the spotlight. Supporting celebrities who consciously break social distancing and  
quarantine rules while criticizing female rap artists for their explicit content calls into  
question the priorities of our society. 
Although tabloids and gossip magazines were the first to openly criticize celebrities for their  
mistakes, a new form of Cancel Culture was born alongside online social media platforms.  
Thanks to our digital world, we have instant access and connection to influencers and  
celebrities that make it easy to voice both our negative and positive opinions directly to 
whomever we are talking about. There’s no way to completely eliminate a culture of calling 
out problematic behavior, nor should we strive to do so. 
There’s a lot wrong with Cancel Culture, but the first step is identifying why it’s bad and how 
we can change the conversation. 
Given the situation with the D’Amelios, it is obvious that moderating young children when it 
comes to social media apps is crucial. They are the most impressionable and, thus, the most 
impacted when it comes to influencers and celebrities exhibiting inappropriate behavior.
Regardless of whether you watched someone on YouTube for several years or “never thought 
they would do something like that,” everyone should be held accountable, and fame should 
not be used to excuse someone from taking responsibility. 
If we are going to put energy into letting people know that they have done something 
inappropriate and problematic, we also need to let people know  how to repair the harm they 
have done and give them room for growth. 
Finally, instead of condemning one person in the spotlight for their behavior and forgetting 
about it two months later, we should use these opportunities to shed light on the topic as a 
whole rather than use Cancel Culture as a surface level bandage. Creating dialogue and 
educating ourselves, our kids, and influencers to become better people is essential to 
eliminate the toxicity of Cancel Culture. Accessed: 12/10/2020 Canceling Cancel Culture - UCSD Guardian
For example, content creator Dr. Mike Varshavski, better known as Dr. Mike, was recently  
called out for partying with a large crowd without a mask. He issued an apology video 
shortly after on his secondary  YouTube channel. This situation is the perfect segue into 
addressing the consistent and  inconsiderate partying that celebrities and influencers are 
guilty of. Many have used this  opportunity to shed light on the bigger issue. 
It can be easy to idolize figures we see on the internet on a daily basis. While a lot of creators  
have earned the right to be considered role models, we must be aware of the issues  
surrounding our generation and be sure to hold people accountable justly.
Art by Ava Bayley for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 12/11/2020 Affirmative Action: A Step Forward on a Long Road - UCSD Guardian
 December 6, 2020   Marcella Barneclo
In an ideal world, diversity in higher education would not be an issue; qualified BIPOC youth  
would be admitted to selective universities and see their skin tone and phenotypes mirrored  
in their surrounding community. However, reality is starkly different, and the University of  
California system is a prime example of how minority groups are largely left out and 
misrepresented in higher education, due to California’s wrongful ban on affirmative action.
Affirmative action is defined as certain policies that use the consideration of race, gender, 
class, etc. to increase representation. In the realm of education, affirmative action dismantled 
de jure segregation on a national level after schools were lawfully desegregated in 1954 
through the famous Supreme Court case, Brown v. Board of Education. Now, affirmative 
action in higher education would give UC colleges the ability to consider race and gender in 
students’ applications, which would greatly benefit minority groups by strengthening 
diversity and representation among all campuses. However, California recently rejected 
Proposition 16, which would have repealed Proposition 209, the 1996 ban on affirmative 
action in the state. The rejection of this policy is likely due to a widespread misunderstanding 
and stigmatization of affirmative action. For a number of years, the policy has been accused
Accessed: 12/11/2020 Affirmative Action: A Step Forward on a Long Road - UCSD Guardian
of implementing reverse discrimination by providing unfair preferential treatment to  
minority groups, specifically Black people, but this is blantantly incorrect. Affirmative action’s 
intent is not to single out one race or reversely discriminate against another but  rather to 
equalize opportunities  afforded to minority groups. 
With this definition in mind, the affirmative action reimplementation would likely result in a  
faster rise of underrepresented groups than outreach programs can currently offer. In recent  
years, UC campuses have been seeing some small improvements in the numbers of  
underrepresented minorities, but this process has been sluggish and arduous, requiring trial  
and error of certain outreach programs to receive only mediocre results. In 2012, the UC  
system created the Nine Percent Plan  to gain a diverse group of high-achieving students from 
different high schools by giving them automatic access to a UC  school; yet this program did 
nothing to boost diversity, according to an evaluation carried out  by UC Riverside. When 
looking at the California Native American population, UC outreach programs and recruitment 
often fail  to reach them. A survey done by UC faculty  members in 2016 reported that 68 
percent of high-achieving African- American students turned down their offer of admission 
because they received no outreach or support. Latinos have made significant strides in their 
enrollment numbers, but this increase is mainly attributed to the rise in their public high 
school graduation rates and not outreach programs. Even with some successful programs, the 
overall population  of Black, Native American, and Latino students remains low across the UC 
system and even more so at highly selective campuses like UC Berkeley and UCLA. With the 
ability to consider race in admissions, UC schools would not solely rely on outreach programs 
to achieve diversity.
Though, as previously mentioned, affirmative action has been consistently stigmatized over 
the years, which is why it is often rejected by voters. In order to implement this policy and 
benefit BIPOC students, racial groups have to stop competing against one another in an 
unnecessary battle over “limited” seats at UC schools. Asian Americans saw a rise in 
attendance at UC campuses following the passing of race-neutral admissions, which means 
they are often at the forefront of the battle  against affirmative action due to the fear of losing 
spots on campuses.  However, the increase of Asian Americans was due to shifting 
demographics in California and the group’s high probability of actually attending a UC 
school. Race-neutral policies never directly benefited Asian Americans in the UC system; 
hence, if race were to be considered, Asian Americans would most likely maintain a large 
portion of representation on campuses. Again, it is important to remember that affirmative 
action only seeks to provide equal opportunities for BIPOC students.Accessed: 12/11/2020 Affirmative Action: A Step Forward on a Long Road - UCSD Guardian
To address another point of contention, some people believe that affirmative action admits  
“undeserving” students to UC schools because college admissions should be based on merit  
alone. However, UC admissions criteria already skew away from a complete meritocracy by  
using a holistic approach, evaluating students on a more personal level rather than using  test 
scores, grades, and academics to determine a student’s future potential. With this criteria  in 
mind, affirmative action and the consideration of race would provide an entirely new  
personal perspective of students during the application process. Plus, the challenges that  
BIPOC students face in a predominantly white society would no longer be ignored. 
Furthermore, with the ability to directly account for race in admissions, the UC system would 
not have to make weak attempts at singling out BIPOC students through the use of social 
class. UC schools evaluate where students received their secondary education as well as their 
area of residence to account for students coming from poverty-stricken backgrounds. Still, 
diversity remains low because while class and race can be interrelated, the two terms are not 
synonymous and attempting to grow racial diversity by only targeting lower-class students is 
insufficient. Affirmative action, on the other hand, is able to cut straight to the point rather 
than attempt to diversify on the basis of social class alone. Additionally, affirmative action 
also serves to benefit middle-class BIPOC students who may not be directly  targeted by the 
UC systems’ consideration of social class. A study by Brookings Institution shows that 
middle-class students who attend a selective four-year university are more likely to move up 
in social class and obtain a higher-paying job. Ultimately, affirmative action is a far more 
efficient method for promoting diversity and uplifting underrepresented minorities as 
opposed to concentrating only on social class.  
All in all, I am not implying that affirmative action is the end-all be-all solution to society’s 
deep-rooted biases stemming from an extensive history filled with the exclusion of 
minorities. I know that simply implementing this one policy is not enough to entirely uplift 
and equalize the opportunities denied to BIPOC communities because of segregation and 
Jim Crow laws that created these educational disparities. However, affirmative action is a 
step in the right direction and a necessary change. 
Art by Yui Kita for the UC San Diego GuardianAccessed: 12/11/2020 Submission: Hate Doesn't Belong in the Classroom - UCSD Guardian
Submission: Hate Doesn’t Belong in the Classroom
 December 6, 2020    Guest Writer 
In this submission, third year student Benjamin Zaghi shares his perspective on the rejection of  
Assembly Bill 331.
The opportunity to educate the public is similar to possessing a key that can open two doors. The 
first door, when  unlocked, leads to an endless path to grow and develop positive ideas that 
benefit society. The second door, when  unlocked, leads to an endless path of misinformation and 
biases that hurt society. Evidently, the power of education is  the most prevalent it has ever been  
as we work to unite all Americans and push for social reform. Consequently, I  commend 
California Governor Newsom for vetoing Assembly Bill 331 on Sept. 30, 2020.
If Assembly Bill 331 had passed without a veto, it would have mandated  all California high  
school students to take at least one semester course from the ethnic studies curriculum proposed 
in the bill. While some have argued  that the goal of ethnic studies is “to be global citizens with an 
appreciation for the contributions of multiple cultures,”  the bill exploits the public’s open  
mindedness to blindly open the door that leads to exclusivity, hatred, and misinformation.  
Accessed: 12/11/2020 Submission: Hate Doesn't Belong in the Classroom - UCSD Guardian
The “key holder” decides which path the public takes. The authors of the ethnic studies 
curriculum have clearly shown  their preference through their support of the Boycott, 
Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement targeting Israel.  For example, according to  the 
watchdog organization AMCHA Initiative, “11 of the 14 founders of the US  Campaign for the 
Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel are associated with Critical Ethnic Studies.” While  
individuals are entitled to their own political beliefs, they should not be forced upon 
millions of people in a public  school setting. Fortunately, a coalition of 80 organizations 
called out  the curriculum, stating in a letter to Governor Newson  that the “anti-Jewish and 
anti-Zionist ideological orientation of Critical Ethnic Studies […] will foster a toxic climate  
for Jewish and pro-Israel students through the state, and foment harm against them.” 
Furthermore, a study  conducted by the AMCHA Initiative found that “the primary sources  
of antisemitic activity are anti-Israel students and faculty who support an academic boycott 
of Israel.” Ultimately, I  fear that the people who hold the keys to our education system are 
people who are either ignorant of their biases or  apathetic to the effects of their decisions.
Unit six of the ethnic studies curriculum requires students to write about Irish and Jewish 
Americans’ “evolution in white identity” and how they have supposedly gained “racial 
privilege.” Such an assignment, unfortunately, unlocks the door to more anti-Semitism. 
Firstly, it ignorantly assumes that all Jewish Americans evolved into a white identity, 
disregarding the origins of many Jewish families who originated from non-Anglo-Saxon 
countries. More importantly, labeling Jews “white” shifts them into the “oppressor” 
category. Such pigeonholing erases the hardships that Jewish Americans face daily: A recent  
FBI report revealed that over 60 percent of religious hate crimes in 2019 were directed at 
Jews, yet Jews only make up 1.7 percent of the United States population. Ultimately, the 
ethnic studies curriculum unfairly represents Jews as a racially privileged group in America, 
which only creates a path that will further cause strife and resentment. 
While I appreciate Governor Newsom’s veto, and while I am grateful that the Instructional 
Quality Commission remained objective, I am quite fearful about the future of Jewish 
students who support the Jewish state. Assembly Bill 331 reminded the Jewish and pro-
Israel community that while they have a voice, they are not the ones with the keys to the 
doors. Now more than ever, it is important to unite and combat all forms of discrimination 
regardless of group identity, because all cultures deserve a seat at the table. While we may 
not have the key or the opportunity to pave the road behind the door, we can stand up for 
what is right. 
Photo by Debby Hudson  on UnsplashAccessed: 12/11/2020 UC Webinar Discusses Science Breakthroughs with Three of UC’s 2020 Nobel Laureates - UCSD Guardian
UC Webinar Discusses Science Breakthroughs with Three of UC’s 
2020
Nobel Laureates
 December 6, 2020   Zhuoying Lin 
The University of California hosted a webinar with the three 2020 Nobel Prize recipients  
within the UC community to celebrate  their revolutionary scientific discoveries in the field of  
chemistry, physics and physiology or medicine. 
The webinar included three 2020 Nobel Prize winners: UC Berkeley biochemistry and  
molecular biology  professor Jennifer Doundna, UCLA physics and astronomy professor  
Andrea Ghez, and UC Davis alumnus  Charlies Rice, a professor of virology at The  
Rockefeller University. 
Doudna shares the 2020 Nobel prize  in chemistry with Emmanuelle Charpentier for their co-
development in CRISPR gene-editing technology. Ghez is one of the 3 recipients of the 2020 
Nobel Prize in physics  for her research in helping reveal supermassive blackholes at the  
center of the Milky Way galaxy, and Rice shares this year’s Nobel Prize in physiology/
medicine for the discovery of the Hepatitis-C virus.  
Accessed: 12/11/2020 UC Webinar Discusses Science Breakthroughs with Three of UC’s 2020 Nobel Laureates - UCSD Guardian
UC President Michael V. Drake started off the conversation by asking each recipient’s first 
reaction to their  winning of the Nobel Prize. The common answer began with an unexpected  
call in the middle of night and  continuous virtual celebrations with colleagues.  
“One of the things that was amazing to me was just the number of emails and phone calls that 
appeared from  people that I might never hear from again in my life.” Rice said in the webinar. 
The following discussion leaned into sharing each of their scientific studies to the general 
public, with the  discussion focusing on their biggest scientific discoveries.
“It’s a curiosity driven project that was initiated to understand the bacteria immune system 
called CRISPR,” Doudna said. “We didn’t start the work to invent this new technology but 
through understanding how this  immune system functions […] It’s a great story of 
fundamental science in leading into an unexpected  direction.” 
Eight years after Doudna and Charpentier first published their work in 2012, the technology  
called CRISPR-Cas9  now has wide applications in biology, medicine, and agriculture. It  
allows scientists to program and cut  undesired DNA in cells for the better health of the cell.  
On the other hand, Ghez’s work in the past focused on developing telescopes to get very sharp  
images of  extraterrestrial sources. As technology has led her into an unprecedented area, the  
initially proposed project  of three years had extended to 25 years for an advancement in the 
knowledge of the role black holes play in  the formation and evolution of galaxies.
 “This enables us to discover stars at the heart of our galaxy and measure their motions,” Ghez  
said, “which  provides us with the evidence that moves the case for supermassive black hole 
from a concept to possibilities  by increasing the evidence by a factor of 10 million.”
Prior to Rice’s study, there remained a significant unexplained case of post-transfusion  
hepatitis that was not  caused by the identified types of hepatitis virus. This viral infection 
causes inflammation in the patient’s liver,  resulting in liver failure and death. Rice and his  
colleagues took effort to identify the agent, which was now  known as Hepatitis-C virus. More  
importantly, Rice recognized that the published viral sequence was  incomplete and 
engineered the correct sequence of the viral genome. His work led to the development of a  
cure for HCV, which saved 95 percent of the affected patients with minimal side effects.  Accessed: 12/11/2020 UC Webinar Discusses Science Breakthroughs with Three of UC’
s 2020 Nobel Laureates - UCSD Guardian
As each of the scientists’ work contributes to the betterment of the world, it’s noteworthy that 
Ghez is one of  only four women who received the Nobel Prize in physics and Doudna is one of 
the only seven women  awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry.  
“It’s very important, especially for girls, to know that it’s important to have mentors and have 
people to  support you in the challenge times of your career,” Doudna said. “I really benefit from 
men and women who  have been there for me.” 
Ghez was also grateful for the support coming from the UC community through the UC 
systemwide program  of child care, which allows scientists  with children to integrate personal 
and professional life on campus. 
The three scientists also shared the elements of success in science, including passion in their 
work,  determination to overcome failures, international collaborations, and friendly 
competitions. The one-hour  webinar ended by highlighting the importance of science 
communication. 
“In many ways we [Nobel Prize laureates] become the ambassadors for science, explaining not 
our work but how the science is done,” Doudna said. “We have the opportunity now to really get 
the word out and explain  not only our work but how science in general is done, why it’s 
important and how it impacts everybody’s life  in very real ways.”
The event was hosted by the UC system and opened for the public. More upcoming events can be 
found here.
Photo courtesy of Creative Commons/ brainchildvn on Flickr .Accessed: 12/11/2020 CA Covid Notify Program Expands at UC San Diego - UCSD Guardian
CA Covid Notify Program Expands at UC San Diego
 December 6, 2020   Nikita Cardozo 
After the success of the  California COVID Notify program in identifying people who have been 
exposed to  COVID-19 at UC San Diego, the contact tracing program has expanded to include 
the thousands of users in the UC San Diego Health system on Nov. 23. 
The California COVID Notify program is still in the initial stages of development with the goal 
being able to identify even more people that have come into close contact with those who have 
tested positive for COVID-19. Originally, this program has only been available to faculty and 
students at eight universities in the state, including UCSD. However, the program will now be 
opened to all patients in the UC San Diego Health system.
  Once students have their exposure notifications on their phone turned on, the program does 
the rest of the work. If students come within six feet of each other for more than 15 minutes 
per day, their phones exchange randomly generated numbers, or keys, that take into account 
their close interaction. If one person later tests positive for COVID-19 and agrees to share that 
information with the program, the people they were in close contact with will receive an alert 
that they have been exposed. 
Accessed: 12/11/2020 CA Covid Notify Program Expands at UC San Diego - UCSD Guardian
A health official will provide an exposure notification key for the infected individual to notify  
others of their diagnosis; the system will then alert everyone who was in contact with the  
infected individual in the last 14 days. The only requirement for the program is that users  
always keep their bluetooth on. 
“If students participate with a high compliance rate, it would make a big difference in contact  
tracing. As we enter this time of increasing SARS-CoV-2 prevalence, this technology could be  
helpful,” UCSD Molecular Biology Professor Stephen Hedrick said to The UCSD Guardian.  
“More helpful is practicing safe behavior.” 
The technology was proven to be increasingly effective in helping identify those who might  
have COVID-19. Since most people don’t know when or how they were infected, this program  
helps alert individuals that might have been exposed so they can quarantine early and get the  
help they need. 
“It’s been used in dozens of other countries and almost half of U.S. states. [So far they  
estimate] 20,000 people on [UC San Diego] campus have enabled the technology,” Chief  
Information Officer and Associate Chief Medical Officer at UC San Diego Health Christopher  
Longhurst said to The Guardian. “[They] have issued over 20 verification keys [since the  
program started in September].”
While many students are concerned about their privacy, CA COVID Notify claims that they  do 
not gather personal information like names, contact information, location, or identity of  the 
people you come into contact with. This technology is solely being used to alert others of  any 
possible circumstances where they were exposed to the virus. 
The randomly generated keys used in the notification system are not linked to the user’s 
identity. This information is only stored on the user’s device and is not shared until the user 
decides they would like to share the information to officials. The data is also automatically 
deleted after 14 days.
Since the program strongly relies on user participation, they are looking forward to making 
the program more available to identify as many cases as possible. In light of the new  purple  
tier restrictions, this technology could be very helpful in identifying COVID-19 cases early and 
slowing the spread.  Accessed: 12/11/2020 CA Covid Notify Program Expands at UC San Diego - UCSD Guardian
“[They are] waiting for word from state leaders about a state-wide expansion […] New York  
went statewide [in October] and Washington [in November]” Longhurst said.  
On top of the required social distancing, face masks, and wastewater testing, the COVID  
Notify program is designed to help reduce COVID-19 cases and bring San Diego county out 
of the purple tier.  
For Apple iPhones, users need to be updated to at least iOS 14.2 and turn on the exposure  
notifications in their settings. Google users have to download the CA COVID Notify app from  
the website. 
Photo courtesy of Irvin Yang for The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 12/11/2020 UCSD Turns 60 Years Old - UCSD Guardian
UCSD Turns 60 Years Old
 December 6, 2020   Niloufar Shahbandi 
This year marks the 60th anniversary of UC San Diego. Founded in 1960 by Roger Revelle, 
UCSD has  become one of the best public universities  in the nation, as well as one of the top 
20 research universities in the world.  
UCSD History 
The Scripps Institution of Oceanography preceded UCSD, and was founded  in 1903. It is 
one of the “oldest and largest centers for ocean and Earth science research, public service, 
undergraduate and graduate training in the world.” SIO became part of the UC system in 
1912. 
In its first year of establishment between 1961–1962, UCSD consisted of only 160 students 
in the Biology department. In the following year, the humanities department was created 
with two sub-departments: Philosophy and Literature. 
UCSD’s early history was shaped by the tumultuous events of the 1960s, including the Civil
Accessed: 12/11/2020 UCSD Turns 60 Years Old - UCSD Guardian
Rights and the Anti-War movements. Inspired by large demonstrations at UC Berkeley,  
UCSD also became a hotspot for protests against the Vietnam War.
Over the next 60 years, the six UCSD colleges were added slowly. In 1965, with a campus  
population of 560 students, First College was named after Roger Revelle, the father of the  
university. The following year, Second College (John Muir) was established. In 1970, Third  
College (Thurgood Marshall) was opened for the first time, followed by Fourth College (Earl  
Warren) in 1974, Fifth College (Eleanor Roosevelt) in 1989, and Sixth College in 2001. 
The assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the advocacy work done by graduate  
student activist Angela Davis later influenced the naming of Third College after US Supreme  
Court Justice Thurgood Marshall as a means to acknowledge minority students on campus.  
Later in 1995, in further attempts to acknowledge students with underrepresented and  
underprivileged backgrounds, UCSD debuted the Cross-Cultural Center.
In 1986, UCSD broadened its academic offerings by establishing the first cognitive 
science  department in the world and creating the Division of Social Sciences. Later in 
1995, UCSD  established the first department of bioengineering in the U.S.
Alumni
There are currently more than 200,000 UCSD alumni around the world, with many notable 
alumni who have been successful in fields ranging from literature to astronomy.
Alicia Garza is a 2002  UCSD alumnus who co-founded the Black Lives Matter Movement in 
2013, following the murder of Trayvon Martin. Garza  graduated  with a degree in 
anthropology and sociology and in her final year at college, she helped to organize the first 
Women of Color Conference, a university-wide convocation held at UCSD in 2002.
Jessica Meir received her doctorate at Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 2009 with a 
degree in Marine Biology. She is one of eight members of the 21st NASA astronaut class, has 
completed 3 spacewalks—including the first all-female spacewalk — and may be chosen for 
NASA’s upcoming Artemis missions to the moon. 
Best- selling author Khaled Hosseini, who has published books such as “The Kite Runner” 
and “A Thousand Splendid Suns,” is a 2009 alumnus of the UCSD School of Medicine. Accessed: 12/11/2020 UCSD Turns 60 Years Old - UCSD Guardian
Rankings
UCSD ranks NO.8 among public  U.S universities and 34th worldwide by the Center for  
World University Rankings. These  rankings were based on quality of education, alumni  
employment, quality of faculty, and  research performance.
Geisel Library is ranked among the nation’s top 25 public academic libraries. One of the most 
recognizable symbols of UCSD,  Geisel Library was designed and completed in 1970 by 
William Pereira. The futuristic design  of the building has inspired many filmmakers and has 
been featured in several films and  television shows, such as “Simon and Simon,” “Attack of 
the Killer Tomatoes,” and was the  inspiration for the “snow fortress” in “Inception.”
As a research-heavy institution, UCSD has made significant scientific contributions including 
developing “effective methods of blocking malaria transmission in mosquitoes; creating 
biodegradable algae-based flip-flops designed to help eradicate plastic waste; and building a 
camera network that has become a vital firefighting tool helping first responders confirm and 
monitor wildfires across California.”
Originally, UCSD was founded to serve a few graduate students in physics, chemistry, and 
earth sciences but the university’s research-oriented pathways have resulted in more than 
1,000 companies using technology created at UCSD.
Although UCSD has greatly expanded during the past 60 years, it is still continuing to
grow with the newest addition of Seventh College and the newly completed North Torrey 
Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood. Enrollment continues to be on the rise as well, 
with over 38,000 students enrolled for the 2019–2020 academic year.
Photo courtesy of UC San Diego.Accessed: 12/11/2020 Single Review: System of a Down’s “Protect The Land/Genocidal Humanoidz” - UCSD Guardian
Single Review: System of a Down’s “Protect The
Land/Genocidal Humanoidz”
 December 6, 2020  Jose Chavez 
After a 15 year lapse since their previous release, the nu-metal sensation System of a Down  
has returned with a double A-sided single voicing their outrage regarding the 2020  
Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
Back when I was a freshman in high school, I found myself preoccupied with academics,  
Future Farmers of America, and anything else besides music. The field of interest seemed  
colossal and unwelcoming to an Undertale OST lover like myself. However, that all changed  
one arid day during physical education when my prog-rock loving friend offered me a listen  
to some tunes. Once I donned those headphones, I was completely captured by the  
enthralling introductory lick of the seventh song on System’s fourth album “Mesmerize;”  
needless to say, the sweat beads on my face and inhibitions towards music faded away into 
obscurity.
Accessed: 12/11/2020 Single Review: System of a Down’s “Protect The Land/Genocidal Humanoidz” - UCSD Guardian
System of a Down has a way of mobilizing listeners to a cause. For many, it has been their  
emphasis on the history of the Armenian People. This quality is what initially brought them  
into the limelight and is what brought them back a whopping 15 years later. The singles
“Protect The Land/Genocidal Humanoids” were released on Nov. 6, 2020 as an explicit cry  
against the recent Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, in which Azerbaijan has launched an attack on  
Armenia as a means to “take back” the disputed region. SoaD’s most recent work serves as an  
apt callback to their glory days and the recent conflict, but doesn’t offer much musical  
innovation, and thus is not ranked  highly within their discography.
The first single commencing their call to attention is “Protect The Land,” a song dedicated to  
the Republic of Artsakh and its relation to Azerbaijan. Originally written by Daron Malakian  
in 2018, this song offers the characteristic heavy-guitar riffage and iconic harmonies between  
Malakian and Serj Tankian, the band’s frontman and lead singer. The harmonies are  
distinctly reminiscent of “Mr. Jack” from their third album entitled “Steal This Album!” and  
give the listener everything they could ask for within a comeback. The lyrics also offer  
powerful interpretations of the driving forces behind violence with lines like “The enemy of  
man is his own decay” and “The big gun tells you what your life is worth / What do we  
deserve before we end the earth?” Malakian and the other members of SoaD seem to believe  
that actions enforced by tyranny will drive humanity into decay, and in order to avoid laying  
“dead on the sand” we must “protect the land,” both literally and metaphysically. The song  
was inspiring, but nothing to write home about to me. I can’t rag on the message nor the  
compositional ability of Tankian, but compared to his previous works and solo projects,
(most notably “Elect The Dead,”) “Protect The Land” doesn’t innovate or build upon what I  
remembered listening to on repeat back in the day.
With that being said, the double A-sided single didn’t leave me feeling unsatisfied thanks to  
the second song entitled “Genocidal Humanoidz.” If you so much as utter part of this song’s  
title to an unaccustomed casual, rest assured they wouldn’t dare touch the genre of nu-metal  
with a 30-foot pole. Regardless, this song exemplifies SoaD giving countries involved and  
complicit with the Armenian Genocide the finger. I appreciate Malakian paying some homage 
to “Holy Mountains” with his clever application of some simple music theory. Like the latter, 
“Genocidal Humanoidz” is in the key of C#m, and you can hear the guitar ascending up the 
scale to the third degree until jumping to the fifth and falling down to the root. The melody 
within the verse of  “Holy Mountains” is the C#m scale, so the parallels were pretty 
prominent for me. I loved the high energy provided by Tankian’s vocals and chilling lyrics 
sticking it to Azerbaijan and Turkey in light of the drone strikes igniting the 2020 Nagorno-
Karabakh Conflict. It is all too obvious that the band views the sterile diplomacy with the 
aggressors to  Armenia as tasteless, with the lines “Guess who’s coming over to dinner / TheAccessed: 12/11/2020 Single Review: System of a Down’s “Protect The Land/Genocidal Humanoidz” - UCSD Guardian
genocidal humanoids / Teaching warfare to their children /The bastards  that will be 
destroyed” cementing this point. All and all, I love this tune the most out of the  two. It’s a 
thrasher, it’s catchy, and it’s definitely a step in the right direction musically.
The single ends abruptly with the conclusion of the former, leaving the listener invigorated,  
primed for activism, and craving some more hard rock. This was a well-welcomed listen for  
me, especially because I’m a huge fan of their work. The only thing withholding me from  
giving this release a 10/10 rating is the fact that they haven’t really brought anything new  
besides the message to the table. I am in full support of the activism, but they’ve still got a  
ways to go before they can adapt to this crazy decade we’re entering into. I have faith that  
System of a Down will rise again with time and humility (Malakian has to get his ego in  
check), and look forward to hearing more music that will one day inspire another freshman  
or listener like myself.
Grade: B- 
Release Date: Nov 6, 2020
Image courtesy of Rolling Stone.Accessed: 2/11/202 1 Film Review: "Over the Moon" - UCSD Guardian
Film Review: “Over the Moon”
 December 6, 2020   Deyshna Pai 
“Over the Moon”’s emotional poignance is marred only by a tonally disjointed soundtrack  
and a half-hearted attempt at increasing representation.
Although its trailer looks like something out of Pixar Animation Studios, “Over the Moon” 
was not created by any of the major animation companies. Instead, it was a Netflix venture, 
and considering that animated children’s movies aren’t typical productions of the 
streaming platform, “Over the Moon” is a decent first step into the genre.
The story revolves around Fei Fei (Cathy Ang), who still clings to the few pieces she has left 
of her mother, four years after her death. One of those pieces is the myth of Chang’e 
(Philippa Soo), the Chinese goddess who yearns for her deceased love Houyi on the moon. 
Each year during the mid-autumn festival, Fei Fei honors her mother’s memory through 
making her mother’s famous mooncake recipes, remembering the moon goddess, and 
spending time with her father. Fei Fei, however, is in for a surprise when Chin (Robert G. 
Chiu), the pesky eight-year-old who gatecrashes her holiday, explains that his mother, Mrs.
Accessed: 2/ 11/2021 Film Review: "Over the Moon" - UCSD Guardian
Zhong (Sandra Oh), will be marrying Fei Fei’s father soon. Fei Fei, who feels betrayed by such 
news, builds a rocket to  the moon to prove to her father the existence of the goddess Chang’e 
and her eternal love for  Houyi in order to prevent the union from happening. Unfortunately 
for Fei Fei, the goddess  doesn’t live up to her reputation, forcing Fei Fei to search the moon 
for the ambiguous “Gift”  that will make them both feel whole again. 
The animation of Fei Fei’s hometown is detailed and beautiful, while the vivid color and  
characters of the Lunar Kingdom where Chang’e lives provide the cute adventure setting  
required for a film of this nature. Still, for a film whose partial appeal is its incorporation of  
Chinese culture and mythology, these elements could have been fleshed out further — instead  
it felt like they were borrowed and westernized for mass appeal, which robbed the film of  
added authenticity it could have benefitted from. Furthermore, some of the characters look  
pretty generic, and animators could have done a better job of individualizing their  
appearances. For example, the three main adult women present in the story, Fei Fei’s  mother, 
Mrs. Zhong, and the moon goddess, are all different characters but look like three  versions of 
the same Barbie doll. This felt disappointing in light of the initial excitement of  having 
another culture serve as the backdrop for an animated movie-musical. 
Other aspects of the film, such as the soundtrack, take some time to warm up to. Although  
Cathy Ang and Philippa Soo sing beautifully, none of the songs possess the catchy, play-in-
your-head-all-day quality that “Let it Go (“Frozen”), “A Whole New World” (“Aladdin”), or
“Reflection” (“Mulan”) seem to possess. Furthermore, the variety of songs featured within the  
film are all so different in genre that the contrast between numbers and the movie’s tone at  
certain parts feels jarring. To explain, the beginning and ending of the film feature many  
traditional musical-theatre type songs, while the middle features genre-bending tracks such  
as “Ultraluminary” that sound as if Lea Salonga was forced to release a cover album of Dua 
Lipa’s “Future Nostalgia.” It’s not horrible, but it’s not the best, and it does require a few 
listens to get used to. 
One thing that the movie nails in spades, however, is its emotional depth. Fei Fei’s love for 
her mother and feelings of loss that intensify upon finding out her father will remarry were 
portrayed with a sensitivity that will move most viewers. Her character arc, as a result, is 
satisfying to watch as she shifts from a young girl afraid of change to one who learns to 
embrace it. “Over the Moon”’s most sentimental quality, however, is the quantity of 
symbolism worked into the film. Fei Fei loses almost every item she clings to in memory of 
her mother as she learns to evolve past her grief, which might go over the heads of most 
young audiences but  will move those who pick up on it. Similarly, the origin of Chang’e’s
“Gift” feels like a plothole unless one spends time contemplating where it came from, whichAccessed: 2/11/2021 Film Review: "Over the Moon" - UCSD Guardian
is another symbolic detail. 
Overall, as a tale about love, loss, and families mending themselves whole again, “Over the  
Moon” is a worthwhile watch that may elicit a few tears with its resonance. There are parts 
of the film that leave a little more to be desired in terms of development— namely the  
incorporation of Chinese culture and tonally disjointed soundtrack — but these are minor  
details when compared to the film’s ability to relate to viewers with its messages about  
moving forward, letting go, and embracing love no matter where it comes from.
Grade: B+
Created by:  Glen Keane, Gennie Rim, Peilin Chou, Audrey Wells
Starring: Cathay Ang, Phillipa Soo, Ken Jeong, John Cho, Ruthie Ann Miles, Margaret Cho, 
Sandra Oh, Robert G. Chiu
Release Date: Oct. 23, 2020
Rated: PG
This article was updated at 10:15pm on Jan 6, 2021 to clarify its viewpoint that while 
“Over the Moon”’s incorporation of Chinese culture into its visual art is not exempt from 
criticism regarding the depths at which the culture’s intricacies are portrayed, it was 
indeed a large project committed to increasing Asian and Asian-American representation. 
“Over the Moon,” as a result, is groundbreaking with its contribution of diversity to the 
animated film genre; the film’s creation allows a whole new generation of Asian-American 
youths to grow up feeling seen in Fei Fei’s story, while also bringing to others outside of the 
Asian-American community a genuine narrative of a group of people that has been 
historically underrepresented in American film. 
Image courtesy of The Envoy Web.Accessed: 12/11/2020 The Enormous Talent of BYU's Zach Wilson Makes Him a Top Prospect to Watch - UCSD Guardian

 December 6, 2020  Hayden  Wellbeloved 
Every year, there are college football players that jump onto the scene and catapult their team  
and draft stock into the national spotlight, such as Joe Burrow just a year ago. One of the  
most electric players through the season thus far has been Brigham Young University’s Zach  
Wilson. The three-year starter has finally put it all together, after showing flashes of greatness 
in his first two years. Through ten games, Wilson has amassed 2,724 yards and 26 
touchdowns through the air, and added another eight TD’s on the ground.
Going into this past weekend, Wilson had carried the Cougars to a 9–0 record. However, the 
team suffered its first loss of the season on Saturday, losing to a stout Coastal Carolina team 
in Myrtle Beach, 22–17. While the BYU signal caller did not light up the stat sheet, there are 
still many positives to takeaway from this game, as he continued to demonstrate why he will 
likely be a top-10 pick come April 2021.
When you put on Wilson’s tape, his arm strength is the first thing that jumps out. By all
Accessed: 12/11/2020 The Enormous Talent of BYU's Zach Wilson Makes Him a Top Prospect to Watch - UCSD Guardian
standards, his arm is elite, which is evident by his ability to throw the ball outside the  
numbers and down the field with ease. The numbers back this up too, as just on throws 20-
plus yards down the field, Wilson was 27-of-41 for 1,062 yards and seven touchdowns in his  
first eight games, per BYU Statsman. 
What makes Wilson as a prospect all the more impressive is the touch he is able to put on  
intermediate and deep passes. This allows him to throw comeback, corner, 9 routes, and  
others on a consistent basis.  It is often the case that many strong-armed quarterback  
prospects don’t have the ability to consistently throw both with power and touch. For  
example, in year three of his career, we are just now seeing Josh Allen develop the finesse  
and touch needed to drop the ball into his receivers’ hands between linebackers and safeties. 
Another strength of the Utah native is his mobility and special talent to throw from any  
platform. In today’s NFL, the quarterback’s ability to move around in and out of the pocket is  
becoming increasingly important. The days of the prototypical quarterback who is going to sit  
in the pocket and dice you up are over. Wilson routinely makes high-difficulty throws on the  
run and across his body look awfully easy every week. Just this last week against Coastal  
Carolina, on a 3rd-down play where Wilson was on a full sprint out to his right, he fired a  
strike down the hash to receiver for a 15-yard gain, and made it look easy, hitting his man  
right in the numbers with velocity. As the league continues to shift towards quarterbacks with  
dynamic skill sets like Patrick Mahomes and Deshaun Watson, Wilson will fit in perfectly.
While the 6’3” quarterback does not have many downsides to his game, his injury history and  
level of competition will certainly come into play during his evaluation process. Last season,  
he missed time due to a thumb injury, and missed the 2019 spring camp after surgery to  
repair his labrum on his throwing shoulder. Some analysts are weary about him due to this  
injury to his throwing shoulder, which could be exacerbated by his three-quarters release,  
where Wilson throws the ball with his arm cocked slightly to the side rather than overhand. 
So this will be something to monitor come combine season when all these mechanics go 
under the microscope. 
Another inevitable knock evaluators will put on Wilson is his level of competition through his 
career in Provo. Although BYU beat the University of Southern California in 2019, this year 
the Cougars haven’t faced the greatest of teams, and lost to the best team they’ll likely play all 
year this past weekend in the Coastal Carolina Chanticleers. This won’t be a good look to the 
analysts who simply look at stats and records. But I’m a big believer that competition 
shouldn’t matter if the prospect still displays the ability to make all the throws, and Wilson 
does just that. When Wilson plays in the NFL, he will still have the innate ability to moveAccessed: 12/11/2020 The Enormous Talent of BYU's Zach Wilson Makes Him a Top Prospect to Watch - UCSD Guardian
around the pocket, and throw with touch and power. While he may be benefiting from  
playing lesser teams, all the traits and abilities are undoubtedly there and will likely 
translate to the NFL level. 
Although it is very early to make a prediction on where he will land, the BYU quarterback is  
already a hot topic of 2021 draft talk. Despite a very strong upcoming quarterback class  
headlined by Trevor Lawrence, Justin Fields, and others, I wouldn’t be surprised if Wilson  
finds himself in the top five in April’s draft, and potentially beating out Fields as the second  
quarterback off the board — he certainly has the talent. Accessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
 December 6, 2020   Wesley Xiao
After the cancellation of the NCAA Division II Tournament just a day before their opening  
match in Honolulu ended their 2020-21 season, UC San Diego’s women’s basketball team will  
open its inaugural season in Division I on Dec. 21 against California Baptist University. With  
the pandemic complicating the runup to the biggest season in the team’s history, The UCSD  
Guardian sat down with head coach Heidi VanDerveer over Zoom on Dec. 3 to talk about how 
her team has dealt with the circumstances and their preparations for the season ahead. The  
following transcript has been lightly edited for readability and length.
Last year was a strong season, with the team going 25–5 and being CCAA 
Tournament champions. What was it like not being able to finish out the season?  
What was the feeling among the players at the end of last season and what was  
your message to them?Accessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
I think it was a really challenging time and I don’t think we fully understood it at the time.  
Obviously, we had won the CCAA tournament. We were playing very well and peaking at the  
right time. We were excited about going over to Hawaii for the NCAA Tournament. We went  
to Hawaii, but we obviously didn’t play.  We got the call that they had canceled the NCAA  
tournament. It was especially hard for our two seniors, Stephanie Moore and Sydney Sharp,  
because as seniors that’s what you live for basketball-wise. Reframing the situation and  
understanding the bigger picture, while it was really hard, made us understand that what we  
were facing was small in the grand scheme of things.
The foundation and philosophy of our program is that success is in the journey, not the  
destination. For Steph and Syd specifically, it was most important to realize how far they had  
come as basketball players, as scholar-athletes, and as young women. It was tremendous to  
see that growth, even though we couldn’t finish out the season. 
How has the pandemic affected the team off the court, regarding things like  
conditioning, recruiting, and team-bonding?
It’s all three. We laughed when we got back from Hawaii and everyone said, “Oh, you know  
it’s gonna be two weeks. It’s gonna be two weeks.” Then April came and May came, and we  
were still at home communicating through Zoom.   
We were planning on coming back in August. We didn’t come back till September. I think our  
athletic department has done a fabulous job getting us back. They’ve done a fantastic job  
managing something that no one has any experience in. With the guidance of our athletic  
trainers, the doctors, and the Chancellor’s COVID committee, they gave us an opportunity to  
just be back on campus, and a sense of routine. When we came back in September, even while 
masking and social distancing, we were able to feel a sense of community and have a common  
bond.
Spring is a big individual improvement and strength and conditioning time for us. That’s the  
focal point of that part of our season. A lot of the things that we build on in the spring really  
are to help us in November, in December. So, we are still feeling the effects of not having that 
spring in terms of strength, conditioning, and skill improvement. I feel like we have missed a 
cycle because the spring is the start of the cycle for the next season. It’s kind of like a 
separation spring. Our strength and conditioning coach Jess and our athletic trainer Allison 
did a fantastic job of structuring our workouts, our rehab, and things of that nature to the best 
of their ability. They were working through tough conditions trying to get the team in great  
shape and healthy.  Accessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
For recruiting, we do everything through Zoom. Before the pandemic, I’d never heard of  
Zoom. Now I have Zoom meetings all over my calendar. We Zoom with recruits and their  
families. We try to show off campus as much as we can because people can’t come to campus.  
It’s different. A picture is worth a thousand words, but it’s not the same as being here. It’s a  
beautiful campus and there’s only so much that you can show through pictures or videos. It’s  
been a challenge, but it’s been a challenge for everybody. The NCAA is in a dead period and  
unless you go out on your own as a scholar-athlete, this is the best we can do. 
And there’s obviously team bonding. The ability to develop chemistry, to work through  
adversity on the track or in the weight room together is huge. It’s huge in developing trust,  it’s 
huge in developing communication that you rely on in the regular season. I do also feel  like 
we made strides as best as we could have through Zoom on leadership. We have Beth  
Monnier, who really took the lead on some leadership seminars for our team, which I thought  
were great. The team has also come together on social justice issues and the Black Lives  
Matter movement. During that moment, we wanted to emphasize being united, being one  
voice, understanding of people’s differences, being more empathetic, being more aware, and  
being an advocate. [Assistant coach] Dalayna Sampton and Beth took the lead in creating a  
safe space to talk about social justice and racial equality. So, I feel like, while we might have  
taken steps back in some areas, we took steps forward in some other areas which are more  
important in the bigger picture. I think perspective is a great word to use now. 
Now that everyone is back on campus, what does practice look like and what has  
changed?
Well, a lot has changed. We spent September, October, and really into November not having 
any contact. We social distanced while practicing, working on individual skill development, 5-
on-0’s, shooting drills, and other things of that nature. Then the last couple of weeks, we’ve 
been able to practice with contact without masks. We discuss every drill that we’re doing and 
review practice with our athletic trainer to make sure they are conducted in a safe fashion. We 
have lots of hand sanitizer available. Coaches are also wearing masks. Having the best health 
and safety practices is priority number one. It makes this season all the more unique.
You know one of my favorite words is “tactile.” It comes from Doc Rivers. The best-connected 
teams, the ones who high-five and give pats on the back, are the best teams. It’s hard because 
even when you’re talking to someone through a mask you don’t have the same connection. So, 
for me and the team as a whole, that level of connection has been the hardest thing to achieve.
Also, we only really have 12 healthy bodies, and only 10 that really practice on any given day.  Accessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
It’s a 5-on-5 sport so we don’t have subs, so we’re navigating a lot of different challenges. 
During most of your tenure, UCSD has been at or near the top of their  
conference. Now the team’s moving into a new conference with a higher level of  
competition where they’re no longer top dog. How do you handle that  
transition?
I think one of our saving graces was that we never looked at the rankings, whether we were  
picked first, second, or whatever in the preseason. In our case, we were picked last in the Big  
West and understandably so. We joined the Big West with eyes wide open. We understand  
the challenges. We know that having everything go our way in 2020 or 2021 is not the goal.  
What’s important is what happens down the line in 2023 and 2024. As a staff, we have an  
overarching goal, and then we have milestones that we need to reach along the way. We  
understood that we weren’t going to come in and be picked number one. That would be  
foolish. Our goal, eventually, is to win the league, but it’s not realistic this year. Our goal this  
year is to come in and compete every game, make sure we’re prepared, and control what we  
can control. Our goal is to have individual improvement and collective improvement every  
day. It’s not just coach-speak. It is reality.  
We had perspective when we joined the Big West. We know there’s no short-term fix. There  
has to be a plan. I like and believe in our plan and we just need to ensure that we stay diligent  
every day and take care of what we can take care of. 
The roster had some turnover. At the end of last season, the team had two 
graduating seniors, Sydney Sharp and Stephanie Moore, leaving openings for 
other players to step in. Who is in line to have larger roles this season?
We have our mainstays, the meat and potatoes of our team: Julia Macabuhay, Sydney Brown, 
and Tyla Turner. I’m very excited about the three of them, especially with Sydney and Tyla 
both back for their second year. They’ll provide us a lot of stability. Tyla actually played in the 
Big West during her freshman year at CSU Long Beach. 
Then you add players that have improved. Emily Cangelosi has improved. Madison Baxter 
has improved. Hanna Beckman has improved. Those three have taken steps forward. It will 
be good too, hopefully, have Layla Ybarra-Harvey healthy for a whole season. Our 
sophomores that are now juniors, Madison Baxter, Kendal Ellenbeck, and Hanna Beckman, 
have improved a lot. I give them a lot of credit. Even though we missed spring, they’ve come  
back better. We might not have had our normal spring, but they did not waste theirs. We areAccessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
missing Isabelle Parker; she stayed in Australia. Brianna Claros is in the process of coming  
back. She’ll be a little slower in her return, but we’re excited to have her back. 
We added three freshmen who are capable of not only helping us this year, but also  
contributing down the line. They’re freshmen so they have time to improve and we’re  
counting on them to do that. Aishah Brown is very talented and has a lot of potential. Both  
Parker Montgomery and Lucy Young have good skills and instincts. It’s just a matter of them  
getting up to speed and hopping into the college basketball party. 
CSU Northridge was supposed to be UCSD’s third opponent this year, but they  
had to cancel their season because about half the team chose to opt-out this  
season. Have you considered what you would do if a significant partition of the  
team opted out or was unavailable for parts of the season?
There are planners and problem solvers, and there’s a spectrum ranging from planners who  
can’t problem-solve and problem solvers who can’t plan. Our staff floats in the middle of that  
spectrum.  
My sister, Tara [head coach of the Stanford women’s basketball team] says, “your best ability  
is dependability,” and it has transformed into “your best ability is availability.” I think that’s  
actually transformed into “your best ability is flexibility.” Whatever situation you’re put in,  
you can’t predetermine what you’re doing. Even in practice, the athletic trainer can come up  
five minutes before practice and say, “She’s limited. She can go. She can’t go.” That’s an 
everyday occurrence. You have to juggle practice plans. If you have a positive test or you have 
an exposure, you have to restructure your plans.  
I mean, I look at something like with Stanford and their women’s program. There, they found 
out on Monday that Santa Clara County was prohibiting contact sports for three weeks. On 
Tuesday, they were trying to find different places to go since they had no place to play in 
California. The men’s team stayed behind in North Carolina. Their football team is moving 
up to Washington. The women’s team is going to Las Vegas. That all happened within 24 
hours. 
No one has planned for what’s going on right now. You have to be able to navigate it as it 
happens. So, if we have a similar situation to Northridge where people opt-out or if there’s 
something different, like an outbreak or an exposure, then you just have to figure it out. You 
can’t lose your personality over that. You’ve got to coach who’s there that day and try to get 
better. Accessed: 12/11/2020 Q&A With Women’s Basketball Coach Heidi VanDerveer on Zoom Recruiting, A New-Look Team, and Remaining Flexible - UCSD Guar …
What are your goals for the season? What does the team need to achieve for you  
to consider it a successful season?
It’s uncharted territory. We are playing teams that we’ve never played before, in a league  
we’ve never competed. We’re also playing back-to-back, so it’s not like you can say, “OK.  
We’re gonna play Cal Poly in January and then again in February and let’s see where we are.”  
We’re playing on Friday night and again a day after on Saturday night.  For us, the goal is to  
be as prepared as we can be for every team, to play to our strengths, and to stay healthy.  
It might not be about the wins. That’s not to say that we don’t want to win. We’re going to  
compete to win. That’s why you play. But we’re going to do that as we compete and get better.  
We need to see it. We know it conceptually. We’ve watched it. But it’s different, actually going  
to Long Beach to play or having Cal Poly come here. It’s just going to be a different year,  
anyway, so might as well do it now. 
Let’s end on an optimistic note. What are you looking forward to this season?
I’ll go back to say, I’ve had a bit of a perspective shift. In all the years I’ve coached, I’m always  
thinking about the next game or the next tournament. I think these days, I really look at  
what’s coming up today. With all the cancellations and with all the uncertainty, not that you  
can’t hope for a great game on December 21st against Cal Baptist or January 1st against Cal  
Poly, if you spend all your energy focused on the future then you’ll lose the opportunity to 
enjoy what you’re doing now. While we were waiting for the season to restart, two weeks 
turned into nine months. So, for this season, I’m looking forward to what happens today.
Photo by Chadd Cady / UC San Diego AthleticsAccessed: 12/11/2020 Spotify Wrapped and the Corporate Power of Culture - UCSD Guardian
 Justin Cho  December 6, 2020  
Students around the country are taking part in the Spotify Wrapped trend. How did Spotify 
manage to garner so much influence?
It’s that time of the year again. No matter how far you scroll through your Instagram stories, 
they all seem to be filled with the same thing:  Spotify Wrapped. 
These last few days have been an excellent excuse for college students to show off their great 
taste in music and their thousands of hours spent  listening to Ariana Grande’s insane vocal 
range. 
Swiping through others’ Spotify Wrapped is actually a pretty good time killer. That is, until 
you’ve looked at 20 or 30 and you can’t remember  who’s the heartbroken guy who only 
listens to Joji and who’s the music critic who only listens to stuff from the ‘80s.
It really seems like everyone has Spotify these days. Out of Spotify’s 286 million users, most 
of them are less than 30 years old. A survey held at Brigham Young University – Hawaii 
Accessed: 12/11/2020 Spotify Wrapped and the Corporate Power of Culture - UCSD Guardian
revealed that 65.5 percent of  their students use Spotify. Their runner-up, Apple Music, was 
only used by 25.5 percent. 
Outside of colleges, Spotify holds around 35 percent of the global music streaming market,  
nearly twice as large as  Apple Music’s 19 percent. These numbers speak to Spotify’s 
prevalence. And while talk of the company’s potential downfall  pops in and out of public 
conversation from time to time, Spotify has undeniably claimed its throne over the music 
streaming industry.
Looking at my friends’ Spotify Wrapped made me realize just how prevalent Spotify has 
become. I realized that, from personal experience, it was generally safe to assume that a new 
friend used Spotify or Apple Music unless they told me otherwise.
This insight gave me a flashback to simpler times. A time where you would ask new friends 
“do you have an Instagram?” instead of “what’s  your Instagram?” This era feels foreign, yet so 
familiar. How did we get here to begin with? 
Back in 1999, a promising music startup called Napster gained traction very quickly within the 
music community. The program was marketed  as a “peer-to-peer” file sharing service that 
allowed users to easily access MP3 files. This allowed fans to quickly obtain older and more 
obscure songs that were otherwise difficult to find. 
The site’s popularity quickly exploded, but there was one fatal mistake — none of the music 
was licensed to be shared. This meant that all the site’s activities were considered piracy 
because it facilitated the spread of copyrighted material. For this reason, the Recording 
Industry Association of America (RIAA) filed a lawsuit against Napster, which resulted in the 
new company being shut down in 2001. 
Despite a short lifespan of only two years, Napster’s swift rise showed that the way people 
consumed media was starting to change as a result of the internet. Consumers wanted to listen 
to music more conveniently and without the commitment that buying a physical music 
product had. The declining sales  of products such as CDs are evidence of this. 
Platforms such as iTunes and iHeartRadio attempted to utilize the internet for the music 
industry, but the field was forever changed when Swedish entrepreneurs, Daniel Ek and 
Martin Lorentzon, created Spotify in 2008. 
This new startup cleaned up many of the errors that held Napster back. Spotify obtained rightsAccessed: 12/11/2020 Spotify Wrapped and the Corporate Power of Culture - UCSD Guardian
to stream all of their music legally, allowing  them to have consistent audio quality and greater 
protection against malware that commonly infects torrents —-, a file type commonly used to  
pirate content. 
In addition, the app’s great design and simplicity received praise and contributed to the 
seamless music listening experience that the company was aiming to achieve. Its business model 
also stood in stark  contrast to its competitors at the time. Whereas iTunes charged $2 for a 
single track, Spotify offered its whole platform for free with an  optional premium plan of $9.99 a 
month. 
Spotify was a hit success, and by 2012, it had accumulated over 15 million active users. However, 
Spotify continued to grow aggressively through business  acquisitions, and it started with their 
purchase of Tunigo — a music discovery app —in 2013. 
Soon Spotify started to target data science companies. In 2014, they acquired The Echo Next, a 
company that specializes in using data to give  tailored music recommendations. In the following 
year, they acquired Seed Scientific, another data science and analytics company. 
Since then, Spotify has continued to buy a new company every year or two. And just as they 
utilized the internet when it was the trend of its  time, Spotify continues to stay relevant through 
utilizing Big Data, the trend of our modern age.
Big Data is a field that focuses on analyzing large systems of data that can’t be processed with 
traditional statistical methods. This is what  allows advertisers to display personalized ads based 
off of your Google search history and what allows TikTok to show you posts that you’re  more 
likely to interact with. 
Big Data was one of if not the hottest fields of the last decade. Its ability to curate and analyze the 
data of users has made it central to the  business models of large companies such as Google and 
Facebook, and today, most powerful companies have some sort of data department. As  a result, 
“data is power”  has become a common phrase used to describe  our current era of business.
Spotify has been no stranger to this trend. Although the specifics of their acquired data 
departments aren’t publicly available, some examples  of projects they’ve produced are  
personalized playlists based on listening history and Spotify Wrapped. For many students, these 
features are a  large part of what makes Spotify stand out from its competitors.
“I really like the way that [Spotify] tries to get you to listen to music that is out of your comfortAccessed: 12/11/2020 Spotify Wrapped and the Corporate Power of Culture - UCSD Guardian
zone,” Alexandra Brondom, a sophomore at Roger Revelle College said. “I feel like it’s easier to 
discover small artists because of Discover Weekly and the daily playlists they make for you.”
Many of the biggest tech and media companies have an origin story similar to Spotify. For 
example, Facebook was also built by taking  advantage of the changing social phenomena, as 
Mark Zuckerberg famously created the site to connect with his college community through the  
internet. As the company grew, it also leveraged the power of data to grow into a social media 
powerhouse.
For many of these companies, addressing a changing social phenomenon and personalizing it 
with Big Data has been a winning formula to  success. As the internet has given consumers 
more freedom in deciding what they consume, our generation has become skeptical of 
marketing and advertisements.  
People no longer want to be sold a product — they want to use things that they trust and have a 
personal connection with. This has caused  strategies like influencer marketing to become  
popular, and it is what allows people to build trust in a company or product. 
“I feel like our generation is becoming at least a little bit more aware [of what they buy],” 
Brondom said. “Especially with Cancel Culture and  influencers starting to become more aware 
of what products they decide to promote … A lot of people are doing more research into what  
they’re buying.”
Like many big media corporations, Spotify isn’t just trying to create a convenient music app — 
they’re trying to become a personalized, curated  experience. 
Your Spotify is not only for you, but represents you. And when such a media app becomes an 
extension of the self, it becomes part of the  culture. Every time someone posts their Spotify 
Wrapped to their Instagram story, they’re adding to this culture and making Spotify even more  
inseparable from how our generation consumes media.
Now that they have our culture held at the palm of their hand with Big Data, these companies 
are here to stay for quite a while. It is hard to see  a service like Netflix be overthrown anytime 
soon when we live in a culture where “watching Netflix” is synonymous with “watching a  
movie.” Spotify Wrapped is a cute social media tradition, but perhaps there is a nuanced layer 
of power that is sliding right under our noses.
Art by Angela Liang for the UC San Diego Guardian.