Accessed: 12/11/2020 P/NP Option Available for Fall Quarter 2020 via Petition - UCSD Guardian
 December 7, 2020 Andrew Ha 
This is an on-going story and may be updated with any further developments.
According to a Dec. 7 email disclosed to The UCSD Guardian, undergraduate students may 
be able to retroactively change their major/minor/general education requirement classes to 
pass/no pass for Fall Quarter 2020. Rather than changing their grade status on WebReg––
like during Spring Quarter 2020––students will likely have to submit an undergraduate 
student petition with their course instructor, department chair, and/or college. Students will 
be able to petition starting on Jan. 4 until Jan. 29, 2021.
Following permission from the aforementioned individuals, the petition would then go to the 
UCSD Academic Senate Education Policy Committee for review. The EPC already noted in 
the email that they will approve any P/NP grade change petitions that come before them for 
Fall Quarter 2020. However, delays are expected given that the EPC only meets once a 
month. This has been the typical process for petitions in previous quarters but is subject to 
change for the fall.To learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  pandemic, click here →Accessed: 12/11/2020 P/NP Option Available for Fall Quarter 2020 via Petition - UCSD Guardian
This change in policy interpretation came to light after nearly all other University of  
California campuses indicated that they would allow P/NP options for major requirements. 
Various UC campuses, now including UCSD,  cite that they changed grading policies to help 
students cope with the stresses of the ongoing  pandemic. However, unlike other UC 
campuses, UCSD’s change is comparatively limited in  scope and occurred during the last 
week of instruction. 
“Due to the extenuating circumstances of COVID-19, I believe this policy change should have  
already passed weeks ago,” Thurgood Marshall junior Leah Peterson said to The UCSD  
Guardian. “Student’s lives have been uprooted by this pandemic and they have had to adapt  
to changing living spaces, stress about their loved ones falling ill, and new work  
responsibilities to care for their families in this precarious economy. Classes should be the  
least of anyone’s problems as we adapt to these trying times.”
Although the EPC indicated that they will be lenient, changes to major/minor/GE  
requirements will still be dependent on the department’s discretion. Changing the grade to  
P/NP will count towards the 25 percent maximum allowed by UCSD. If you have any  
questions about P/NP options, please reach out to your academic advisors. If you would like  
to submit an undergraduate student petition, please refer to this document. 
This article was edited on Dec. 8, 2020 at 12:40 PM to clarify new details about the Fall 
Quarter 2020 P/NP option.  
This article was edited on Dec. 9, 2020 at 7:50 AM to clarify the predicted petition process 
and to include GEs as part of the policy change.
Photo taken by The UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 12/14/2020 Submission: How Changing the Consumerist Mindset Could Benefit Our W orld - UCSD Guardian
 December 13, 2020  Guest Writer 
This article was submitted on behalf of CALPIRGs environmental protection program.
In modern America, the consumerist mindset dominates our headlines, advertisements, and 
personalities, even if they do not take center  stage. It drives the role we play in society and 
the impact we have on the environment. This modernist issue has been a growing problem 
and accelerated due to globalization. If things are so easy to buy, why not buy them? If things 
are broken, why not just by a new one? The  companies make it cheaper to do so anyways, 
playing along with this narrative is the easier thing to do. The holiday season is almost upon 
us and with this, comes the constant pressure to buy and consume. Everything you buy 
comes with a direct cost and an indirect cost. That is, it  comes with the original price that you 
pay for it, and then the price that the environment or someone else pays for it. People like to 
think that recycling is the savior to their conscience. If they recycle, they believe that they are 
saving the environment and doing their part to save the world. This is a lie that is fed to them 
by companies who are doing the same thing. Recycling is not enough anymore; we cannot 
save our world by recycling. We are past that point, and we have been for a while. We have to
Submission: How Changing the Consumerist Mindset Could
Benefit Our Worldeliminate the sources: plastics, styrofoam, and fossil fuels. We  simply cannot live in this 
consumerist world anymore. The easiest and most durable material to reject at this moment is 
plastics. So this is  where we are going to start.  
Two types of plastic produced by us are macroplastics and microplastics. Macroplastics are 
more well-known; through the way, environmental agencies show pictures of turtles that have 
eaten plastic bags, the Great Pacific Garbage Patch — now more than two times the size of 
Texas—and the vast amounts of litter found all over the world, according to Marian Liu from 
CNN. But what happens to these plastics once they break down?We cannot see them anymore 
but most plastics never biodegrade. They never disappear. Instead, they break down into 
something called microplastics, which are typically less than 5mm in length and are incredibly 
harmful, arguably more so than macroplastic. Almost all plastics in the ocean break down into 
microplastics. Some start small like the lint from your clothes going into the water supply 
every time you wash them and microbeads, which were an aspect of many beauty products 
until they were banned in 2015 by former President Barack Obama. Others start big, like old 
toys or car parts and break down over years. According to the US Department of Commerce, 
microplastics were relatively unknown until 2012 but they have been doing behind-the-scenes 
damage for over 50 years.
In 2014, California became the first state in the United States to ban single-use plastic bags 
from large retail stores. This was in part due to the work that CALPIRG did over eight years to 
raise awareness around the negative effects of plastic pollution. For background, single-use 
plastic means any plastic that cannot be reused and includes almost anything that one might 
find in a grocery store. This legislative law was a huge step forward in the fight against plastic 
and put California as the leading state in this fight. Starting in 2022, California is going to put 
themselves on the map again, requiring all single-use plastic water bottles to be made out of 
15 percent post-consumer recyclable material and stepping it up every few years with the goal 
of 50 percent post-consumer recyclable material by 2030. This is amazing but frankly is not 
enough. California is doing more than most states are doing, but there are still gaping holes. 
People should be acting like their homes are on fire, but they are not. People should be acting 
like all the materials they are using will be gone, but they are not. People should be acting like  
their oceans will be void of fish by 2048, but they are not. Plastics should not be allowed, 
period, and that is the least the human population can do. For the most part, COVID-19 has 
had a positive impact on the environment. More people at home means fewer people are 
traveling, eating out, and buying vast amounts of unnecessary items. Wildlife has once again 
taken over areas they were pushed out of by people, and both air and water quality have gone 
up. As we hopefully rise out of this pandemic, it is important to look at what the future holds 
for us.  With any luck, soon COVID-19 will be a distant memory but maintaining a positiveAccessed: 12/14/2020 Submission: How Changing the Consumerist Mindset Could Benefit Our W orld - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 12/14/2020 Submission: How Changing the Consumerist Mindset Could Benefit Our W orld - UCSD Guardian
impact on the environment is vital. Plastics should be abolished — it is no longer needed in 
modern society, where technology and innovation have allowed us to move past it but we 
actively choose not to. Big companies continue to use plastic as it is the cheaper option; this 
must be acknowledged and stopped. The responsibility of this cannot fall on the consumer, 
saying this would exude a massive amount of privilege and not all people are in the position to 
pay extra for reusable material. This must fall on the corporations, and they must do more.
Photo by Nick Fewings on Unsplash.