Accessed: 5/22/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Student Tests Positive for Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: UCSD Student Tests Positive for Coronavirus
 March 23, 2020  Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
A UCSD student has tested positive for COVID-19, according to a Triton Alert released 
over text  and in email waves on Monday, March 23. This marks the first case of a 
student contracting the  virus, and comes after two UCSD Health workers  tested positive 
for the virus last week.
The alert stated that the student has been practicing self-isolation and is currently in 
isolation while they are receiving treatment.
The alert also stated that the university is working with the San Diego County Public 
Health  department to properly notify students who may have come in close contact with 
the anonymous student about the positive test.
UCSD encourages students to follow Governor Gavin Newsom’s “Stay At Home”
(https://www.gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/3.19.20-attested-EO-N-33-20-COVID-19-HEALTH-ORDER.pdf) order, as 
well as to practice social distancing, practiceTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19 
pandemic, click hereAccessed: 5/22/2020
This marks the latest case of COVID-19, with the New York Times’ latest estimates 
putting the number of confirmed cases in California at 2,160 as of March 23.
UCSD encourages students to follow Governor Gavin Newsom’s “Stay At Home” order, 
as well as to practice social distancing, practice  consistent hand washing, and to cover 
coughs.
This is a developing story, and the UCSD Guardian will continue to monitor this story 
as information is released.
Photo by McKenna Johnson for the UCSD Guardian.COVID-19: UCSD Student Tests Positive for Coronavirus - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/22/2020 Submission: One Thousand UC Grad Students Join Digital Picket Line - UCSD Guardian
ine
 March 25, 2020   Guardian Staff  
This letter to the editor by Associate Professors Lilly Irani and Eric Hekler and Graduate  
students Davide Carpano and Eleanor Castracane addresses the #COLA4ALL  movement 
under the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Across the University of California, some undergraduates are experiencing a more personal 
approach to getting feedback in their courses from an uncommon cause – a graduate 
student teaching assistant strike. At UC San Diego, 160 teaching assistants have joined the 
strike to gain costs of living adjustments to their salaries. They are withholding one of the 
key products they control — grades — from university administration. This week as 
computers across six — out of 10 total — UCs register undergraduate Winter quarter 
grades, for many classes student transcripts will remain blank. Organizers estimate that, 
across campuses, one thousand teaching assistants have joined this “digital picket line.”
“We care deeply about the power of education. Although the university isn’t supporting us Accessed: 5/22/2020
as we need, we will continue to do everything we can to support our students,” explained UC 
San Diego Communication graduate student Dorothy Howard. 
In efforts to protect vulnerable students, however, teaching assistants have continued 
grading and offering feedback to undergraduates — only refusing to record grades online. 
Some hold Zoom office hours for students to learn about their final grades through a 
conversation, openingt he discussion to a wider variety of issues than a mark on a transcript. 
And for students who  require grades to graduate, to secure scholarships, or to navigate 
probation, TAs make  exceptions. 
COVID-19 has only made teaching conditions more difficult, underscoring the importance 
of cost of living adjustments for housing. “Teaching through COVID-19 requires a great deal 
of resources. You need the right internet. You need a space to work quietly. Just like parents  
working while homeschooling, graduate students are in a weird bind because we’re keeping  
work expectations basically the same in a world that is not the same,” Eric Hekler, an 
Associate  Professor of Public Health at UC San Diego, explains.
Across the country, 250 university professors have joined the striking teaching assistants by  
promising to boycott the University of California. With the boycott, faculty from universities 
all over the country, including Columbia, Princeton, Yale, Harvard, and New York 
University, have promised not to give guest lectures or speeches at UC until the fired 
strikers are reinstated. 
The wildcat strike began at UC Santa Cruz began in the fall over salaries insufficient to cover  
costs of living in one of the most expensive zipcodes in the country. UCSC students withheld  
grades in fall and by Februrary 28, UCSC fired 54  of the striking teaching assistants though 
that number has  grown to 80. The strike has since expanded and at UC San Diego, over 150 
graduate teaching  assistants are on strike.
At UC Santa Cruz, administrators effectively stripped teaching assistants of health care 
when they chose to fire them for striking. United Auto Workers, or UAW, Local 2865 — the 
union that represents UC graduate student instructors, teaching assistants, readers and 
tutors —  filed an unfair labor practices grievance against the UC over a range of issues and 
negotiated the reinstatement of health coverage. While the UAW cannot legally endorse the 
strike, these filings strengthened the strike effort. “Now almost a thousand teaching 
assistants across the UC have taken the same risk. Salaries across all UC campuses are low 
enough that teaching  assistants qualify as “rent burdened,” which means workers spend 
many as 10% have experienced homelessness at some  campuses. And UC lecturers, who have been without a contract since January 31, 
earn a median salary of $19,000/year – $5,000 below the California poverty line. One quarter of them rely on  government programs, such 
as food stamps. The power of public should not be poverty.
Photo by Lilly Irani for #COLA4ALL.Submission: One Thousand UC Grad Students Join Digital Picket Line - UCSD Guardian over 30% of their take home pay on rent.
“When graduate students aren’t paid a living wage, everyone’s learning is affected. I’ve
personally experienced and witnessed economic hardship as a graduate student. At times, it  
makes it difficult to focus on teaching,” explained UC San Diego graduate student Dorothy  
Howard. 
Undergraduates are similarly affected by food insecurity and homelessess. 40% of UC 
students  also experience food insecurity and as many as 10% have experienced homelessness 
at some campuses. And UC lecturers, who have been without a contract since January 31, 
earn a median salary of $19,000/year – $5,000 below the California poverty line. One quarter 
of them rely on government programs, such as food stamps. The power of public should not 
be poverty.
Photo by Lilly Irani for #COLA4ALL.Submission: One Thousand UC Grad Students Join Digital Picket Line - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/22/2020Accessed: 5/22/2020 Quarantine Chronicles: Returning Home as a Gay Person - UCSD Guardian
For as long as I felt possible, I put off making the decision to leave behind my life in San 
Diego  and return to my hometown to quarantine myself. For about a week after the UC 
San Diego  administration announced their transition to online courses for  Spring 
Quarter in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, I ignored my family’s pleas for me to return,  
convincing myself that the world would still function “business as usual.” 
The decision to move back to my hometown was a hard one to make, albeit the right 
choice. However, since making the move, I have found myself back in a close-minded, 
Midwestern city.  This change in environment has conjured up so many memories as to 
why I ever left in the first  place.
Disclaimer: I  understand the privilege that I have to even be able to leave campus during 
this pandemic, and I am truly grateful to have a loving family to come back to and to have 
the security that comes with having a roof over my head. For those who do not have this 
Walking the Halls of High School Aloneoption, I truly empathize with you. This column simply reflects my thoughts on returning 
to a close-minded city that I, as a gay person, left with no intention of returning to.
While I was absentmindedly scrolling through Grindr late the first night I got back — and 
no, I  am not hooking up with anyone while quarantined — I was shocked to see so many 
people on  the app who had been my seemingly straight classmates in high school .
“They told me to tell you that they think it’s sweet that you are into them, but they’re not 
gay,” my friend tells me one winter day during junior year.
I’m shocked to hear this, because I had never expressed any interest in this individual — 
I had merely tried being friendly with them in a new class we had together — but I bite 
my tongue instead of clarifying the reality of the situation.
During sophomore year of high school, I was immediately labeled as the only out gay kid 
in my entire grade from the moment I first told a friend about my sexuality. In a socially 
progressive year such as 2020, this may seem silly. And in reflection, the thought of even 
hiding my sexuality under most contexts seems very foreign to me. As any queer kid who 
went to high school in the mid 2010s can attest, however, maintaining the homogenous 
social order was the most important thing on any of our minds.
Throughout high school, I engaged in a lot of activities that did little to shield myself 
from scrutiny. I started my high school’s Gay-Straight Alliance, although ours was called 
the Genders & Sexualities Alliance. I also participated in our annual variety show, 
performing Irish dances to pop medleys featuring gay icons likes Beyoncé , Nicki Minaj, 
and Ariana Grande. In Speech Team, the topics of my spoken word poetry programs 
always revolved around my gay identity.
But I did all of this out of necessity. There were many nights where I would cry alone in 
my room as a result of all of the glares, rumors, and hurtful things people said about me. 
But given the choice to suppress my personality or experience homophobia, my high-
school self would choose the latter time and time again.
Viewing these “late bloomers” on a gay dating app so many years later during a global 
pandemic is so triggering to me because it feels as though they made the conscious 
decision to force me to walk the walk alone. I distinctly remember several of these 
individuals playing into the “Jacob is a fag” narrative that was commonplace within the Quarantine Chronicles: Returning Home as a Gay Person - UCSD Guardian Accessed: 5/22/2020Accessed: 5/22/2020
walls of my school.
I don’t harbor any malice towards these individuals. Every queer person has their own 
journey of coming out, and I know that a lot of my counterparts wish they had come out 
sooner. However, the pain in these memories reminds me of the need I felt throughout 
high school to get as far away from my hometown as possible. v
“A parent complained to our executive pastor that they saw you were supporting the 
Day of Silence (https://www.glsen.org/day-of-silence) movement on Facebook,” my 
church’s youth pastor says to me privately in a hallway one Sunday morning in 
between church services in 2015.
“I don’t understand what’s wrong with supporting the LGBT community,” I say, 
defending my social media post even though I had yet to come out to anyone.
“I just wanted you to be aware of the situation,” the pastor replies. “We’re actually 
having an internal conversation as a church right now to decide as to whether or not 
we will support gay rights.”
Church and family go hand in hand in the Midwest like milk tea and tapioca pearls do at 
UCSD. One of my earliest memories is of attending my sister’s baptism, and I have had 
countless experiences since with my family’s community church. Throughout my 
childhood, my sister and I participated in the church’s summer theater camps, my 
family volunteered to help with the various functions that go along with Sunday 
services, and we even spent several summers at week-long Bible sleep-away camps.
You would be hard pressed to find a queer kid who grew up in the Midwest who does 
not have a complicated relationship with the church. On the one hand, Christianity set 
me up with a strong moral standard for how to interact with the world. Moreover, in 
times of crisis like we find ourselves in today, the church can offer a comforting sense of 
community.
On the other hand, the Evangelical standard I was subjected to forced me to question 
whether my sexuality deemed me worthy of even being considered a good person. Case 
in point: I have a vivid memory of sitting alone during service in my sophomore year of 
high school and listening to our head pastor condemn homosexuality as a sin destined 
for hell.Quarantine Chronicles: Returning Home as a Gay Person - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/22/2020
Running away to UCSD did not necessarily mean that I was ignoring the standard put 
forth by  the church elders; it simply meant that I would not be subjected to an 
irrational double  standard: “Love your neighbor only when it’s convenient for you.”
It’s 1 a.m. on a cold January night in 2017 in Logan Square, and I find myself trying 
to convince my work crush to take the train home with me from the party we’re at. 
We had gone  out on a date the week prior, but tonight he is considering leaving me to 
go home with a stranger he had met only hours before.
“You know Jacob, you’re right,” he says to me, the smell of alcohol clinging to each of 
his words.
I remain silent for almost the entire train ride and drive back, with him continually 
telling me “I love you so much, you really saved me back there.” We would never end 
up dating.
When I was a senior in high school, I took up my first retail job as a seasonal employee 
at Lush Cosmetics. The allure of working for a company that screams “inclusivity for 
all,” even for just  the holidays, seemed the ready escape that I needed from the halls of 
my school and walls of my  church. And believe me, I loved working there. All 108 of my 
coworkers fully supported me for  who I was, and I cried the night I found out that I was 
not hired on permanently.
However, not being asked to return turned out to be a blessing in disguise. Sure, I was  
devastated to be leaving a team that was so supportive and inclusive. But being forced 
to leave  the store made me realize how temporary all of that inclusivity was. Lush 
represented an escape  from my day to day struggles with being myself in a world which 
refused to accept me. Realizing  this solidified my need to move on to a different part of 
the country where inclusivity would be  the norm and bigotry would be the outcast.
“I’m so excited to room with you,” I say over the phone to my future roommate at 3am 
as I sit in my car after coming home from Senior Prom.
“I am too, Jacob,” he says. “Especially because, I think I like you.”
“I think I like you, too.”Quarantine Chronicles: Returning Home as a Gay Person - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/22/2020
UCSD was by no means a quick fix for these problems, and I quickly woke up to this 
reality shortly after starting my freshman year of college. That being said, the time that 
I have spent at  UCSD was a blessing full of high highs and low lows. 
Regardless of where you live, “real life” will always be full of a number of these positive 
and negative experiences.
However, being removed from a close-minded community in favor of a more accepting 
one significantly alters the paradigm under which the negative experiences are placed. 
Rather than experiencing homophobia alone, my negatives in regards to my sexuality 
at UCSD have  consisted of heartbreak. Not ideal by any means, but being in San Diego 
allowed me the opportunity to experience heartbreak in the first place, something 
which seldom would have occurred in my hometown.
If you were looking for some deep insight into the coronavirus pandemic itself, I’m 
sorry. I know that there is a lot of uncertainty in the world right now, and I wish I 
could offer more concrete solutions in regards to coping with this pandemic. But given 
that we have this unique opportunity of time, I implore you to do a little self-reflection 
on your own time. I am very grateful to have had the opportunity to leave behind my 
hometown in favor of newer, more accepting horizons, and I know that the post-
pandemic future holds nothing less than that.
“Do you think you’re happy?” my CAPS therapist asks me during a session in Winter 
2018.
“Not yet,” I reply. “But I know that I’m getting there.”
Artwork by Susan Sun for the UCSD Guardian.Quarantine Chronicles: Returning Home as a Gay Person - UCSD Guardian