The University of California 
Student Association endorsed 
the California State Proposition 13, School and College Facilities 
Bond on Saturday, Jan. 11. The 
Proposition, commonly referred 
to as the Prop 13 Bond, will 
provide $15 billion in bonds for public schools and university 
facilities, $2 billion of which will 
go to the UC system. Initially proposed as SB 14 
by State Senator Steve Glazer, the higher education finance 
bill merged and became AB 48, 
which was formally introduced 
by California Assemblymember 
Patrick O’Donnell. It was passed 
in both houses and signed into 
law by Governor Gavin Newsom 
in October 2019. The bill now 
moves as a proposition for the California people to vote on in 
the primary elections in March 
2020. The bill and this subsequent 
Proposition aims to renovate aging educational facilities 
throughout California. Some 
buildings in the UC system 
will need to be fixed to meet 
necessary safety standards. 
“The UC has billions of 
dollars in outstanding deferred 
maintenance issues, ” UCSA 
President Varsha Sarveshwar said. “The UC has a lot of buildings UC San Diego held an informational 
webinar on the 2019 Novel Coronavirus on Jan. 30, 2019 as global anxieties 
surrounding the virus continue to grow. The webinar comes shortly after the San Diego County Health and Human Services Agency announced that they were working with the Center for Disease Control to test a local patient for the virus, the results of which came back negative later that night.
The 2019 Novel Coronavirus, also known 
as 2019-nCoV , is a respiratory virus which was first detected last month in Wuhan, China. The World Health Organization classified the virus as a global health emergency on Jan. 30, as the virus has continued to spread around the globe.
The webinar, which was held in conjunction 
with UCSD Health, gave an overview of the current situation and provided an opportunity for students to ask questions about the virus to Francesca Torriani, UCSD Health’s Director of Infection Prevention and Hospital Epidemiology, and Stacie San Miguel, the Student Health Services Director of Medical Services.
The UCSD administration had previously 
sent out three emails in regards to the developing situation. In one such email, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla answered questions on how students could stay protected from any potential exposure to the virus.
“Our leadership and health care experts 
are in continuous contact with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the California Department of Public Health, and the San Diego County Public Health for updated information on the outbreak, and for any changes in the protocols to screen, identify and diagnose potential cases of [coronavirus], ” Khosla wrote. “If cases occur, UC San Diego will collaborate with the CDC and San Diego Public Health to prevent, isolate, and control the spread of this infection. ”
Globally, the virus has continued to spread, 
with over 9,800 confirmed cases being reported as of Jan. 30. The vast majority of these cases have been in China, with the death toll for the country being reported at 213 as of Jan. 31.
As of Jan. 30, there have been six confirmed 
cases of the virus in the United States, with one in Washington state, one in Arizona, and two each in California and Illinois. The first person to person transmission of the disease in the US was reported in Chicago on Jan. 30.
While no cases of the virus have yet been 
confirmed in San Diego, the HHSA and CDC were investigating a potential case of the virus, which was confirmed to be negative on Jan. 30. The anonymous patient had recently traveled to Wuhan.
International and local governments have 
taken a variety of actions to respond to the growing epidemic. Shortly after the virus began spreading within Wuhan, Beijing cancelled flights to and from the region, limited ground transportation to and from the city, and began the rapid construction of new hospitals capable of providing care to thousands of people.
Elsewhere, countries like Italy have canceled 
flights to China, while Russia imposed a partial closure of its border with the country and suspended electronic visas for Chinese citizens.
In San Diego, the CDC set up a quarantine 
station near the San Diego International Airport, making the city one of twenty within the US to have one of these stations.
Xenophobic anti-Chinese sentiments have VOLUME 53, ISSUE 15  MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 3, 2020  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CALIFORNIA
UC Student Association Endorses Prop 13 Ahead of  Primary
Tobi Lou at the Horizon 2020 concert at UCSD // Photo by Harsimran Singh
By  Jacob  sutherland   News EditorGLOBAL
UCSD Administration Responds to Coronavirus ConcernsPHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING 
THE ARTICLE PAIRED WITH 
THE PHOTO TEASE. FOR 
EXAMPLE IF THE PHOTO 
WERE OF A BABY YOU 
WOULD SAY “BABIES SUCK! 
THEY ARE WEAK AND 
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SPACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  Page   _
section,  Page  _
FORE-
VERBATIM
PULL A QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN HERE! FOR EXAMPLE, ‘I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE WORDS TO THEIR PROPER USAGES. ’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
TEXT ...................................X
OPINION SOMETHING .X
WEEKEND/FEATURE .....X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW XSECTION,  PAGE  _PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
"It is not realistic to 
expect young adults 
to make life changing 
decisions without 
sufficient knowledge of 
career opportunities."
SERGIO  CRUZ
DATA  PRIVACYRespect  and  remembrance
BASICS  AND  SUMMARYOpinion,  Page 4
Features,  PAGE 6
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE"Having watched over 
50 movies that were 
released in the past 
year, including all 9 
Best Picture nominees, 
I was disappointed to 
see that Hollywood’s 
old guard had 
emerged victorious.”TUESDAY
 H 59 L 40
THURSDAY
H 61 L 45
WEDNESDAY
H 60 L 44
FRIDAY
H 63 L 49
SELF-DRIVING CARS.....7
VIDEO GAMES................9
LO-FI HIP HOP ................9 
FEBRUARY PEEKS........10
KOBE’S IMPACT............16Natalie Tran
Oscars Predictions
 PAGE 8If passed, Proposition 13 would expand funds available to public educational institutions on all levels.
BY  ANDREW  HA
Associate News EditorOPINION:
MAJOR PRESSURE
Opinion, page 4
See PROP 13,  page 2See CORONAVIRUS,  page 3
UC Begins Search 
for the Next 
Student Regent
The position remains one of the 
few opportunities for students to be 
directly involved with UC decisions.
The University of California 
Board of Regents opened up its 
application process this month for the next Student Regent, a full voting position that attends all meetings of the Board and its various committees and represents “the voice of the students” to the 26-member Board.
Current Student Regent 
Hayley Weddle co-hosted a UC Student Regent Town Hall alongside Student Regent-designate Jamaal Muwwakkil and Associated Students of UC 
San Diego at the Price Center 
Governance Chambers around noon on Friday, Jan. 31. The discussed topics included the application process and the duties of a Student Regent.
Weddle, a UCSD doctoral 
student, spoke at the forum about how success in her role has been a result of her interests in advocacy for her fellow students.
“I think [the role] is more about 
an understanding of the UC, or an interest in understanding, ” Weddle said. “I feel really good about what I’ve put in and some of that [is based on] my values about collaboration and being honest. ”
Weddle recently opposed two 
plans proposed by the UC Board of Regents to increase tuition due to student affordability concerns. She also argued that the Regents need to prioritize student input.
Muwwakkil has focused on 
improving outreach programs and facilitating greater community involvement. He also has pledged to be an advocate for the university system’s diverse student body. 
The Student Regent holds the 
position for a two-year term that overlaps with their predecessor to ensure that the student body is always represented. In the 
first year, the appointed student 
observes the current voting student regent in a non-voting capacity. The second year is spent as a full voting member.
The Board as a whole 
establishes university policy in areas ranging from financial management to long range planning. The Regents also appoints the UC President, all 10 campus chancellors, and the Officers of the Regents.
In order to be considered 
for the position, Student Regent applicants must be an undergraduate, graduate, or professional student in good UC SYSTEM
BY  Troy  tuquero
Senior staff writer
See REGENTS,  page 3A Call for Questions
In the UCSD Guardian News 
section, we strive to provide 
objective reporting on the topics that pertain most to students’ daily lives. That being said, in the weekly hustle and bustle of the quarter cycle, I do acknowledge that some stories may fall through the cracks from time to time.
In the spirit of providing greater 
transparency in the selection process for our stories while also trying to learn more about what tritons care about most, we will be launching a new column within 
the News section called “Curious 
Tritons.”
Modeled after the Dallas 
Morning News’ “Curious Texas, ” this column will provide an opportunity for anyone on campus to ask any questions they may have 
about campus, the University of 
California, or San Diego at large. Shortly after, we will assign our team of journalists to track down the answer.
In order to submit questions, 
we ask that you fill out a short Google Form at: https://forms.gle/tXYTjvbkRLb5bmWa7. All responses will remain anonymous, and questions may be shortened for brevity’s sake upon publication.
Likewise, while we will try 
to address as many questions as possible, some may go formally unanswered but will be incorporated into future articles we do.
Come W rite With Us
As we continue to grow and 
develop as a paper, it is important to bring in fresh ideas from time 
to time. With that in mind, if you 
previously wrote for your high school paper, have a passion for researching, or are just curious about what is going on around campus, we would love to have you join the news section.
Whether you are just starting 
out on your writing journey or you have been published in The New Y ork Times, we accept writers of all experience levels. We do things a little bit differently here than at other publications, so once hired on, we will train you in our style of writing, research, and reporting.
You will start off as a 
contributing writer, and as you continue to write and grow, there will be opportunities to both become a staff writer as well as collaborating with other sections.
To apply, please visit our website 
or fill out a Google Form at: https://forms.gle/rcTwuhxxyUwpyC7N9. All we ask is that you answer a couple of quick questions, provide a sample of your writing, and offer a short critique of our section in any recent issue of the Guardian of 
your choosing.
If you have any questions, you 
are more than welcome to reach 
out to me via my email: news@ucsdguardian.org. Also, feel free to check out our instagram @ucsdguardian_news, where we 
post daily content and always 
respond to direct messages.
—  Jacob Sutherland
News Editor 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
ALL UCSD STUDENT & FACULTY INSURANCE ACCEPTED
Dr. Sherman Dr. Cook Dr. Terranova
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays during the 
academic year by UCSD students and for the UCSD 
community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2017, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Stream “Bad Guy” by Doofenshmirtz.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org  
Marketing: marketing@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Daisy Scott
Ranjani Shankar
Jacob Sutherland
Geena Younger
Jack Dorfman
Lara Sanli
Chloe Esser
Jahfreen Alam
Annika Olives
Colleen Conradi
Alexandra Fustei
Alex Rickard
Luke Burbudge
Alicia Gunawan
Anthony Tran
Divya SethEditor in Chief
Managing EditorNews Editor
 Opinion Editor
Sports EditorFeatures Editor
A&E Co-Editors
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorMult imedia EditorData Visualization EditorArt EditorCopy Editor
Page Layout
Amber Hauw, Emily Kim
Copy Readers
Divya Seth
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director 
Heijin Shin
Marketing Directors
Carmella Villejas  
Advertising Design 
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio
 that need to be renovated, torn 
down and rebuilt, and retrofitted 
so that they can be safe. But they 
basically don’t have money to do 
it themselves. ”
Public universities in 
California have not received a 
facilities bond since 2006. Due to the subsequent 2008 Recession, 
then Governor Jerry Brown was unwilling to provide the 
necessary funding to finance such 
an initiative. With the passage 
of the bill and the upcoming 
proposition vote, UCSA has 
tasked members to gather pictures and information on 
lecture halls and residential areas 
that are in need of renovation. 
“In general, for me, there’s a 
lot of buildings that need to be 
fixed, that need to be updated so 
that if there is an earthquake, it would actually be safe to be in, ” UCSA Vice Chair of Government Relations Kimberly Giang Tran 
said. “In addition, the Marshall 
Lower Apartments flooded often. 
We also need more chairs in 
lecture halls so that people won’t 
need to be sitting on the floor. ”
Adding to the issue of 
dilapidated buildings in K-12 schools as well as other public universities, California 
Assemblymember Patrick 
O’Donnell found the impetus 
to take action. After passing the 
bill in the Legislature, O’Donnell 
has gone around California to speak about Prop 13 and educate 
people on the importance of 
modern school facilities. He also 
spoke to the UCSD Guardian to 
explain the Proposition’s funding 
mechanism. 
“Prop 13 will be financed 
by a series of bonds over 7-8 years, ” O’Donnell said. “Those 
bonds will be sold and the money 
earned will go to the higher 
education system to address the 
needs across our state. To pay for 
the bonds, money will be drawn 
from the state’s General Fund. 
It will not come from student tuition, fees, or the university 
budget itself. ”
To promote the passage of the 
proposition, UCSA has assigned all External Vice Presidents 
in each of the UC system to 
release an Op-Ed in their school 
newspaper. Beyond influencing the student population, UCSA 
also recognizes the need to 
advocate for Prop 13 to the 
general population.
“The number one thing 
we need people to do is to get 
registered to vote, ” Tran said. “We can vote yes on Prop 13 if you are not registered. Our [Student Organizes Voter Access 
Committee] Commission at 
UCSD has gone door to door 
in [college] residential areas to 
make people more aware of the 
upcoming election and getting 
people registered to vote. They have also worked hard to get 
more polling stations on campus. ”
The Proposition 13 Bond 
measure will be on the California primary ballot on March 3, 2020. 
In order to be eligible to vote 
on this, Californians above the 
age of 18 will need to register to vote and head to the polls on the 
aforementioned date. 
NOTES  FROM  THE  NEWS  EDITORThe Proposition 13 bond will be up for vote on all of  the March 3 California Primary ballots.
▶ PROP 13 , from page 1
Scan to submit questions for us.
Scan to apply to be a news writer.Andrew  Ha   news@ucsdguardian.orgNEWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
grown as the virus has continued to 
spread. Some businesses in neighboring countries have refused service to Chinese customers, while Asian businesses in cities like San Diego have seen a decline in sales as a result of growing concerns surrounding the virus.
At UCSD, memes about the virus 
have made their way to pages like UCSD Memes for Sleep Deprived Teens, some of which have been at the expense of Chinese students. This has drawn some criticism from the on-campus international student community.
At the time of this article’s publication, 
no confirmed cases of coronavirus have been reported on the UCSD campus or within the city. Students who have recently been to Wuhan and have difficulty breathing or have a fever with a cough are encouraged to visit SHS as soon as possible.
standing at a UC campus. If appointed to the position, the student regent is disbarred from serving in elected student government or on the Board of Directors of the UC Student Association for the duration of their term.
Conflict between students and 
UC officials in the 1960’s led the California State Legislature to propose a referendum, Proposition 4, that would amend the state constitution to allow the appointment of a student and a faculty member to the Board. Its passage with 55 percent of the vote created the Student Regent position and UC Santa Barbara student Carol Mock was the first to serve in the position from 1975-1976. 
Associated Students Muir Senator Ian 
McKeever spoke to the UCSD Guardian about his hopes for the next Student Regent.
“It is essential that the Student Regent 
be someone who can not only understand the needs of their constituents but effectively communicate them to the Board, ” McKeever said. “This entails a Student Regent who can reflect the changing demographics of our campuses and advocates for those whose voices need to be heard. ” 
Students are encouraged to reach out 
to the current Student Regents if they have any further questions about applying. Questions regarding application logistics can be directed to UCSD Student Regent Coordinator Christian W alker.
The global community has responded to the outbreak with a number of  health related policies.
The student regent position was created by Proposition 4, which was approved by voters in 1960.▶ CORONAVIRUS , from page 1
▶ REGENTS , from page 1PRESIDENT?
By Michi Sora
troy  tuquero   ttuquero@ucsd,edujacob  sutherland   news@ucsdguardian.org
Debate
topics: free
speech in
social media
& genetic
modificationFORUM
February 5,
2020
7 PM - 9 PM
POLITICALFree pizza!
POLITICAL
FORUM4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
Geena  ROBERTS
My experience choosing a major has been quite 
difficult. To choose what I want to pursue for 
the rest of my life is a tall order to say the least. 
Choosing a major has been di fficult because having so 
many options leaves me doubting my major, and I’m not alone. About 80 percent of students in the United States end up changing their major at least once. On average, college students change their major at least three times over the course of their college career. Universities should not expect 17 and 18 year olds to choose their major, as this sets up the students’ trajectory for the rest of their lives. According to scienti fic research, 
teenagers’ brains are not fully developed, thus rational decision making is not an acquired skill. Additionally, high schools and universities are not aiding students in making this momentous decision. 
Scienti fically speaking, teenagers are not fully able 
to make rational choices and should therefore not be expected to make life changing decisions. The part of 
the brain in charge of making rational decisions is not fully developed until much later; studies show that human brains do not fully developed until age 25. In fact, recent research finds that adult and teen brains 
work di fferently. The recognition of this research has not 
been taken lightly, as it has been integrated within the United States legal system. For example, it is unlawful for young adults to drink alcohol below the age of 21, in part because of the di fference in decision making 
between developed brains and developing brains. 
One of the main reasons why many students find it 
hard to choose a major in college is because high school does not adequately prepare students for career paths. High school teaches students skills and information to excel in courses, but does not lead students down a path to find their passion or teach about lessons with real life 
applications. Moreover, schools do not make a strong enough e ffort to teach students more about career 
opportunities or possibilities. Students spend most of their time working on getting good grades, putting o ff 
career explorations to be able to succeed in academic settings.
It is not realistic to expect young adults to make 
life changing decisions without su fficient knowledge 
of career opportunities. Many times, students without adequate levels of knowledge about major or and careers are le ft indecisive. This indecisiveness carries 
over a fter graduation. It in fluences the types of career 
paths individuals lead. For example, the average person will change careers 5 to 7 times during their working life and approximately 30 percent of the total workforce changes jobs every 12 months. In fact, millennials are known for job hopping, as 21 percent of millennial workers have le ft their jobs in the last year. This shows 
how the lack of education on career paths spills over into adult life. 
 High schools and universities need to improve 
students’ academic experience to better help them find 
their passions. Through engaging students in real-world 
experiences, they would help students choose their majors. This could be in the form of granted credit for 
civic engagement or internships, or as mandatory classes that educate students on career paths. Additionally, universities should not allow students to declare their major until a fter their sophomore year. This allows 
students to focus on their general education courses, reducing the stress of choosing a major. Ideally, students would also have more freedom when choosing courses.
In conclusion, choosing a major is a decision that 
affects a student’s life forever. It is scienti fically proven 
that teenagers are biologically unable to make fully rational decisions due to the development of the brain. This scienti fic fact should be taken into consideration 
within universities and high schools. If high schools and universities o ffer much needed aid to help students find 
their passion and their major, students can then use this time to stay curious and determined, explore possible paths, and talk to professors, peers, and colleagues!
Stop Forcing Major Decisions So Soon 
By: Julia Nee // Contributing Writer
UC San Diego Overlooks Blue Collar Workers
By: Alex Rickard // Design Editor
The construction of the North Torrey Living and Learning Neighborhood is a familiar sight to anyone walking around the UC San Diego campus. It dominates the skyline of the entire area  between John Muir College and 
Thurgood Marshall College, standing tall as a symbol of growth and the promising 
future of UCSD. For all the good it represents, however,  it cannot and should not be separated from the reality of its existence. Early last summer, tragedy struck when a grid of iron rebar collapsed on a group of construction workers. Five workers were injured with one passing away later that day. At least two other workers were taken to the hospital to be treated for injuries. The deceased worker would later be identi fied 
as 32-year-old Sergio Cruz, who had recently moved to the San Diego area from Tecate in Mexico, according to the San Diego Union-Tribune. He is survived by an 11-year-old daughter. 
Following the event, UCSD’s response was minimal. Despite the fact that the 
Living and Learning Neighborhood is the single largest construction project in the university’s history, the incident went largely ignored aside from a single day of news coverage. With no administrative response but a brief email from The Office of the 
Chancellor, the event was swept under the rug. A California Division of Occupational Safety and Health investigation was announced, yet no results were ever published or broadcasted. No memorial was publicized on campus. Construction continued as planned.
This response from the administration is absolutely unacceptable. Rather than 
send out a form email that will be ignored, the administration should name one of the buildings a fter Cruz. Blue collar workers and the sacri fices that they make are 
often ignored on campus, and UCSD has a duty to break this cycle in a visible and 
substantial way.
 To see the divide in recognition between the privileged intellectual class that 
consumes the fruit of the working class’s labor and the working class itself, one must look no further than the names on the buildings around campus. The vast majority of 
buildings on campus are named a fter wealthy donors with an occasional rare sighting 
of a dedication to a researcher or former chancellor. From Price Center, named a fter 
ART BY ANGELA LIANGART BY ANGELA LIANGART BY ANGELA LIANGART BY ANGELA LIANG
See DEDICATION,  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
retail mogul donor Sol Price, to the 
Keeling apartments, named for carbon dioxide researcher Charles Keeling, to Wells Fargo Hall, UCSD has consistently honored the wealthy and intellectual populations. Although great thinkers and their scienti fic advancements are 
obviously fundamental to the forwarding 
of society, we would be remiss to ignore 
the blue collar workers who facilitate and underpin the machinations that make these intellectual pursuits possible. Without the world-class labs and research facilities that are used daily on campus, it would be obviously impossible to generate the intellectual capital on which we rely. Too o ften, the workers responsible for 
these buildings are shunted o ff to the side 
while their contributions are taken for granted. As any UCSD student can attest, construction seems constant on campus, yet the workers do not receive their due share of credit for their creation. Universities are already sites of 
massively unequal wealth distribution, creating and reinforcing a mentality that discourages class mobility and disenfranchises the working class. According to the New York Times, 40 percent of UCSD’s student population comes from the top 20 percent of family 
income. Only 11 percent come from the 
bottom 20 percent. This concentration 
of a particular population causes unawareness of the problems faced by those who were not fortunate enough 
to be born into a wealthy family. This 
problem is exacerbated by the erasure of those who make the whole system 
possible. In order to properly recognize both the constant e fforts of these 
workers and the particular sacri fice by 
Cruz, UCSD should dedicate one of the buildings of the Living and Learning Neighborhood to Cruz.
The Living and Learning 
Neighborhood, a $627 million project, will contain housing for 2,000 students, as well as two research towers, restaurants, retail shops, and a theater. The websites 
detailing the project host idealized 
sketches of elegant buildings that rise 
from the horizon against a picturesque background. It will undoubtedly serve as a site for many pithy speeches about how the area represents “the forwarding of our great society” and the structures will assuredly be prime targets for wealthy sponsors to try to claim. In fact, the Campaign for UC San Diego website has a list of the buildings with links asking visitors to “Give Now. ” However, money is not the only commodity that goes into the construction of these monuments to learning. Cruz made a massive sacri fice 
for the betterment of the campus and in 
the long run, it will mean far more to the 
community to honor those who give their bodies and lives for the improvement of society. By recognizing and honoring Cruz, UCSD would be taking a step toward giving o ften forgotten blue collar 
workers the respect they deserve. If they do not do so, the administration would be implicitly stating that the lives and identities of blue collar workers aren’t as 
worthy of recognition as the donations 
from wealthy donors.
▶ DEDICATION , from page 4
TRITE AND TRITER By Yui Kita“Too often, the workers responsible 
for these buildings are shunted off 
to the side while their contributions 
are taken for granted.”6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
LARA SANLI
features@ucsdguardian.org
What is Data Privacy?
A lot of talk in the news in recent times has been on the subject of data 
privacy. Most people have heard of the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica 
scandal and Google+ bug, but the actual definition of data privacy is something that escapes a lot of us. In today’s tech-savvy society, where personal information is increasingly being stored as digital data, it is important to understand how one’s personal data can be used by others, and also how to safeguard against the misuse of personal information.
In the article Data Privacy Concerns: An Overview for 2019, Rhonda 
Bradley, writing for The Manifest, lays out what constitutes as personal data and how it can be misused by both big companies and cyber-criminals. Possessing in-depth knowledge of content marketing practices for big businesses, Bradley provides us with insight into which of our personal information is valuable to big corporations, and how they seek to use that information. 
In short, personal data is personal information that can be used to 
identify a specific individual. This includes, but is not limited to, one’s email address, phone number, date of birth, credit card information, and social security number. More recently, personal data has also come to include one’s facial and voice recognition data.
By focusing on data privacy, we can also learn how to safeguard personal 
data against criminal activity. Once scammers have a hold of someone’s personal data, they can use that information to send them robocalls and emails, hack into their social media accounts, gain information about their family members, and even access their banking and credit card information.
But being the target of malicious activity by criminals is not the 
only data privacy concern people need to be aware of. Many reputable companies, such as Facebook, Google, and Uber, that play a large role in our daily lives, have been found to be negligent in handling users’ personal data.
All three of those corporations have experienced a massive privacy 
breach. Upon discovering their respective privacy breaches, all the companies decided to keep the news to themselves instead of alerting users that the security of their personal data had been compromised. It was not until much later that the companies finally admitted to their mistakes, either by their own admission or through the emergence of a 
whistleblower. These privacy breaches have brought to light the topic of 
corporate responsibility in protecting users’ privacy, and there is now a lot of discussion regarding the amount of responsibility corporations must bear, and how much users themselves must be held accountable for.
  
Case Study: FaceApp
Released in 2017 by the Russian company Wireless Lab, FaceApp is a 
mobile app that uses artificial intelligence to create realistic transformations of a picture of the user’s face. The company’s website brands the product with the slogan: “Transform your face using Artificial Intelligence with just one tap. ” Using FaceApp, users can upload a picture of their face and instantly receive a realistic image of how they would look as either older or younger versions of themselves. While the app’s capabilities are innovative and entertaining, the company’s use of users’ data has been more than questionable.
FaceApp is controversial because its creators are harvesting the metadata 
from users’ pictures. Metadata is data that could provide information about other data, such as a picture containing data on the geographic location of where the picture was taken. The terms and conditions (as of November 2019) on FaceApp’s website state:
“FaceApp, its Affiliates, or Service Providers may transfer information 
that we collect about you, including personal information across borders and from your country or jurisdiction to other countries or jurisdictions around the world. If you are located in the European Union or other regions with laws governing data collection and use that may differ from U.S. law, please note that we may transfer information, including personal information, to a country and jurisdiction that does not have the same data protection laws as your jurisdiction.
By registering for and using the Service you consent to the transfer 
of information to the U.S. or to any other country in which FaceApp, its 
Affiliates or Service Providers maintain facilities and the use and disclosure 
of information about you as described in this Privacy Policy. ”Users’ photos may be transferred to foreign countries and used 
for unknown purposes there, all without the knowledge of the users themselves. The more alarming news is that FaceApp is not the only app, or even only photo-editing app, with weak privacy protections.
Granted, a lot of the concern over FaceApp being able to harvest such 
data from their users connects to the fact that Wireless Lab, the company behind the app, is Russian. Due to the close relationship between Russian companies and the Russian government, many fear that the Russian government will collect this user data and use it for its own purposes. However, despite the fact that tech companies and users in the U.S. enjoy a higher level of legal protection from the government in general, users of American-made apps should still be cautious of how their data could be exploited.
While American companies such as Snapchat and Instagram try to 
comply with privacy laws in general, incidents such as the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal show that large tech companies can still fail at protecting the privacy of their users’ data. Regardless of the origin of the company, app users should be cautious of how their information could be used, even by the largest and most reputable of companies.
  
How to Protect Your Data
While there are data privacy regulations in place, such as the General 
Data Protection Regulation that protects users of the internet in the European Union, companies cannot be trusted to always follow the rules. Also, cyber-criminals will simply ignore data protection laws, or they will operate from countries where these protections do not exist.
So how should users go about protecting their personal data? - Use passwords for all devices
 - Ensure passwords are both strong and changed regularly
 - The same password should not be used more than once - Free WiFi services should be avoided - Privacy and sharing settings on social media accounts should be 
checked regularly, and inactive online accounts should be closed
Ultimately, users may never be 100 percent safe from cyber-criminals, 
but staying aware of the latest scam tactics and knowing how to protect personal data against these scams will reduce the risk of becoming victimized by cyber-crime.
While it is almost impossible to be integrated into today’s digital society 
without giving out personal data to big tech companies, being aware of these companies’ policies, and being informed of the latest tactics used by cyber-criminals will help users to understand how they can best protect their personal information. 
The  Basics  of  Data  Priv acy
A brief summary of what data privacy is, how to protect your personal data, and a look at case 
studies involving the misuse of personal data by big corporations.
By Seth  Lee   Guest writer
“By focusing on data privacy, 
we can also learn how to 
safeguard personal data 
against criminal activity.”This week, The UC San Diego Guardian is re-publishing two articles from the Data Science Student Society, an interdisciplinary academic 
organization that gives students the opportunity to explore the rapidly-developing field of data science. Founded in 2018, the DS3 
currently has around 150 active members, and is open to all majors. It aims to immerse students in data science topics such as machine 
learning, statistics, data mining, and predictive analytics, among others. The DS3’s content is published on its digital Medium blog, Data 
Science Student Society @ UC San Diego, which includes articles on the applications of Data Science technology, faculty spotlights, and tutorials for implementing and understanding relevant methodologies. The two articles below, The Basics of Data Privacy, by Seth Lee, 
and A Deep Dive into Self-Driving Cars, by Wenqi Gao, o ffer students a look into some of the most relevant technological topics of today. 
ART BY ALLYSON LLACUNAART BY ALLYSON LLACUNAFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
History of Self-Driving Cars
With the rapid development of technology and urbanization, there has 
been a growing demand for travel in a more convenient, labor-efficient, 
and safe manner. One of which is through self-driving cars.
Scientists and tech corporations across a multitude of industries have 
been exploring the automation of vehicles for a long time. Data shows that experiments have been conducted on self-driving cars since at least the 1920s. As of 2019, twenty-nine U.S. states have passed laws permitting autonomous cars. In Europe, cities in Belgium, France, Italy, and the U.K. are planning to operate transport systems for driverless cars.Furthermore, Germany, the Netherlands, and Spain have allowed for the testing of robotic cars in traffic.
Self-Driving cars in Industry
There’s data showing that over 40 corporations are working on 
autonomous vehicles. Beyond trendy names like Tesla and Alphabets, 
a host of auto brands and other tech heavyweights are also investing 
in autonomous research and development. Many major automotive manufacturers, including General Motors, Ford, Mercedes Benz, Volkswagen, Audi, Nissan, Toyota, BMW , and Volvo, are in the process of testing driverless car systems.
Private companies working in auto-tech are attracting record levels of 
deals and funding, with autonomous driving startups leading the charge. 
Along with early-stage startups, large corporations are also angling to get 
a slice of the self-driving pie.
Self-driving cars operate on five different levels, which are detailed in 
the image below. The operating systems of level four are currently being tested by Google, Uber, Apple, and Samsung. These systems have already been tested in trucks by Volvo, Otto and Daimler.
The Five Stages of Self-driving Cars
The Society of Automotive Engineers’ International standard J3016 
defines six levels of automation for automakers, suppliers, and policymakers to use to classify a system’s sophistication. The pivotal change occurs between levels two and three, when responsibility for monitoring the driving environment shifts from the driver to the system.
Level 0: As usual, a human driver is required to do all tasks related to 
operating the vehicle safely at all times.
Examples: A 1967 Porsche 911, a 2018 Kia Rio.Level 1: An automated system on the vehicle can sometimes assist the 
human driver.
Example: Adaptive cruise control.Level 2: An automated system on the vehicle can actually conduct 
some parts of the driving tasks while the human driver monitors the environment and performs the rest of the required driving tasks.
Examples: Audi Traffic Jam Assist, Cadillac Super Cruise, Mercedes-
Benz Driver Assistance Systems, T esla Autopilot, V olvo Pilot Assist.
Level 3: An automated system can do both actually conduct some parts 
of a driving task and monitor the driving environment in some instances, but the human driver must be ready to take back control when the system requests.
Example: Audi Traffic Jam Pilot.Level 4: The car is capable of performing all safety-critical driving 
functions while monitoring conditions in defined use cases. Self-driving is fully possible in most road conditions and environments without the need 
for human intervention. A functional driver cockpit is still in place. An 
automated system can both conduct the task of driving and monitoring the environment, without the need for a human driver to take back control. However, the operation of the system is limited to certain environments and conditions.
Example: Google’s now-defunct Firefly pod-car prototype, which had 
neither pedals nor a steering wheel and was restricted to a top speed of 25 mph.Level 5: The vehicle in this stage can be called an actual “driverless-
car. ” It is completely driverless, having full-time automated driving in all conditions without a human driver. These vehicles will not feature driving equipment and will no longer look like the vehicles of the past. An automated system that can perform all driving tasks, under all conditions that a human driver could perform. 
Example: None yet, but Waymo — formerly Google’s driverless-car 
project — is now using a fleet of 600 Chrysler Pacifica hybrids to develop its Level 5 tech for production.
 
Challenges to Self-Driving Cars
It is obvious that we still have a long way to go before reaching the 
final stage of fully autonomous driving, as there are difficulties still very much up in the air. Ford CEO Jim Hackett expressed a conservative stance, admitting that the company had initially “overestimated the arrival of autonomous vehicles. ” Ford still plans to launch its first self-driving fleet 
in 2021, but with significantly dialed-back capabilities.
As for the intelligence, practicability, maneuverability and safety 
of autonomous driving, there are still many difficulties in science and 
technology. At the same time, it is difficult to achieve a fully autonomous driving infrastructure and develop legal provisions applicable to the traffic environment with driverless cars.
 
Here are some challenges around driverless cars: 
 -  R o a d  P e r c e p t i o n :  C o g n i t i o n  w h i l e  d r i v i n g  i s  c o m p l i c a t e d .  I t  i s  
challenging to build a self-driving system that can perceive the road better than the best human driver. A self-driving car’s perception system needs to ensure a lower car fatality rate, even though the current car fatality rate is already low — about one death per one million hours of driving.
 - Navigation: A perfect navigation system is essential for the higher 
stages of autonomous vehicles. It is difficult to build a navigation system that is updated in real time, intelligent and flexible, covering all geographical areas as well as all the traffic information.
 - Performance: Developing a perfect internal system is challenging. 
The high-quality power management is needed to control power, overall consumption, and thermal dissipation. There is always a trade-off between safety and efficiency. For example, for the automatic driving system to make decisions while driving, it is safe for the system to decide to drive very slowly. However, for the customers, a very slow and inefficient car is useless and tedious.
 - Handling the Unexpected: The driving regulations in the real traffic 
environment are very complicated. It is difficult for the automatic driving system to understand the complicated traffic regulations as a reasonable person does, and make the most appropriate choice in some special emergencies, including the choice between humanity and rationality. For example, what happens when there is a conflict between following the 
traffic rules or reducing casualties when other vehicles or pedestrians do 
not follow the traffic rules?
 - Liability: There is still a great deal of controversy over the possible 
liability for car accidents. Who is responsible for the accident — the car manufacturers, the retail company or the owner? Is it the operating system or hardware that’s at fault? Should we apply strict liability to the manufacturer to ensure they are prudent enough while building the car? If so, if the companies are willing to shoulder that liability? These are just some of the questions we face while building self-driving cars.
 - Consumer Trust: The public lacks trust in the automated system for 
safety reasons, and most people tend to trust their driving skills, instead of completely trusting and relying on artificial intelligence.
There remain a multitude of challenges facing the development of fully 
autonomous driverless cars. Yet one thing is for certain: The driverless car industry will continue to expand, and it has an optimistic future. Many companies around the world are striving to align their business models accordingly with this innovation of self-driving cars, which includes hiring highly sought-after yet low-supply talent in this area.
  
A  Deep  Dive  into  Self-Driving  Cars
A look into the history of self-driving cars and how they continue to in fluence the future.
By wenqi  gao   Guest writer
ART BY SUSAN SUNART BY SUSAN SUNA&E EDITOR // JAHFREEN ALAM & CHLOE ESSER
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // COLLEEN CONRADI & ANNIKA OLIVES
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG SOCIETY
The release of the nominee list for the 92nd Academy Awards shocked me. 
Having watched over 50 movies that were released in the past year, including 
all 9 Best Picture nominees, I was disappointed to see that Hollywood’s old guard had emerged victorious. Over and over in each category read “Once Upon a Time… in Hollywood, ” “1917, ” “Joker, ” and “The Irishman. ” Names like Leonardo Dicaprio, Al Pacino, Brad Pitt, Scarlett Johannson lined up the acting categories. Alas, #OscarsSoWhite strikes again.
I’ll hurry off my unsolicited soap box and exchange it for my equally-
unsolicited bully pulpit of Oscar predictions. Let’s take a look at who has a shot of bringing a gold-plated statuette home, according to some random student at UC San Diego.
On Sunday, Feb. 9, all our screens will turn into a celebrity-run live auction. 
The announcer will shout: “1917!” Best Director. “1917!” Best Picture. If the film doesn’t lose the two biggest accolades to its rival, “Parasite, ” the one-take war epic still has Best Cinematography and Best Production Design in the bag. It’ll also take Best Sound Editing and Sound Mixing, because, according to the Academy, there’s no difference between the two categories, and how could the more deserving car-bro movie “Ford v Ferrari” be Oscar-material? Regardless, hopefully director Sam Mendes remembers to wear his walking shoes.
Or Bong Joon-ho, for that matter. His Korean thriller, “Parasite, ” will 
undoubtedly win Best Foreign Language Film, and has a good shot at winning Best Original Screenplay. For a film so richly layered in twists and symbolism, it fully deserves winning these categories, as well as Best Director and Best Picture. It has a legendary cast, it’s pushed the boundaries of filmmaking — I still can’t get over that one montage — and it’s introduced new audiences to foreign cinema. For these achievements, “Parasite” warrants recognition, change my mind.
On the other hand, predictions for Best Actor have not altered in months. 
Ever since hearing about his initial casting in “Joker, ” I already knew that Joaquin Phoenix would deliver one of the best performances of the year. Phoenix — finally getting that Oscar recognition — has practically won every award that he’s been nominated for his role in “Joker. ” Maybe next time, Kylo Ren.
Similarly, the Best Actress front-runner is Renée Zellweger in the Judy 
Garland biopic “Judy, ” following the Oscar-winning trend of actors and actresses playing real-life people, like Rami Malek and Gary Oldman. Slight uncertainty lies in the Best Supporting Actress and Actor categories, with awards likely going to Laura Dern from “Marriage Story” and Brad Pitt from “Once Upon a Time,” the latter who would be beating out veterans like Al Pacino and Anthony Hopkins for his first Oscar. Both play comedic relief characters who happen to be my favorite aspects of their movies.
Best Original Score will likely go to Hildur Gu ðnadóttir’s melancholic score 
for “Joker, ” while Best Original Song will go to “(I’m Gonna) Love Me Again, ” by Elton John, Bernie Taupin, and Taron Egerton — I’m sorry the Academy snubbed you, you’re My Best Actor — from “Rocketman. ” On a similar note, Billie Eilish’s surprise performance at the Oscars will likely be her new song for the upcoming James Bond movie.
For more niche categories, nearly all nominees are game. Stalemates prevail 
between “1917” and “ Avengers: Endgame” for Best Visual Effects, and “Parasite” and “Ford v Ferrari” for Best Film Editing. Best Makeup and Hairstyling and Best Costume Design are up in the air between several aforementioned films, but my predictions go to “Bombshell” and “Little Women, ” respectively. “Little Women” might also snag Best Adapted Screenplay, which almost makes up for it not being nominated for Best Director. Best Animated Feature has lots of standout films, but given the Oscar’s penchant for Disney animations, “Toy Story 4” is a relatively safe bet.
If “1917” doesn’t end up sweeping like I and most people speculate, 
“Parasite” or “The Irishman, ” maybe even “Joker, ” could win the majority of their categories. Can you imagine headlines reading: “BEST PICTURE WINNER JOKER”? After last year’s wins for “Green Book” and “Bohemian Rhapsody, ” I unfortunately can. 
It’s another year of snubs, shoo-ins, and spun-out speeches. Who will win at this year’s Oscars? 
By: Natalie Tran // Senior Sta ff Writer Time to Put on My Clown Makeup: The Joker 
isn't the Onl y Fool Going to this Year's Oscars
PHOTO COURTESY OF WBURPHOTO COURTESY OF WBUR
PHOTO COURTESY OF BRITAINNICAPHOTO COURTESY OF BRITAINNICA
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE DAILY BEASTPHOTO COURTESY OF THE DAILY BEAST PHOTO COURTESY OF THE DAILY BEASTPHOTO COURTESY OF THE DAILY BEAST PHOTO COURTESY OF RITZ CINEMASPHOTO COURTESY OF RITZ CINEMAS PHOTO COURTESY OF POLYGONPHOTO COURTESY OF POLYGONPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW YORK TIMESPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTO COURTESY OF NEW YORK TIMESPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW YORK TIMESA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
While it may be overproduced, lo- fi gives us the feeling of nostalgia that we crave.Why are video games not taken seriously as storytelling mediums? 
When I say “24/7 Lo-Fi Hip-Hop to Relax and Study To, ” 
what do you think of? If the image of an anime girl wearing 
headphones dutifully doing homework immediately comes 
to mind, then congratulations! Y ou might listen to lo-fi, or have at least seen the various Y ouTube streams with a mix 
of those words in it.
For those unaware, the prevalence of lo-fi has become 
sort of a cultural phenomenon that marks our generation. From memes of the anime girl spread around Twitter, the 
rise of lo-fi playlists on Spotify and Apple Music, and even “Lo-fi Study Jams” on the UC San Diego campus, lo-fi is present in our everyday lives, and it’s lead to the creation of 
a so-called “lo-fi aesthetic. ”
So what does this aesthetic consist of?
First of all, the image. The popularity of the original 
Y ouTube channel sparked other decently popular Y ouTube streams, all of which feature a screencap from a beloved 90’s anime or other cute cartoon; these images have nearly 
become synonymous with the music style.
Musically, the lo-fi aesthetic is characterized by a “lower 
quality” sound, described as keeping the sonic mistakes that come up during recording. In a musical landscape 
where we award precise production and immaculate sound mixing, it’s refreshing to hear beats fizzle out and twangy, slightly out-of-tune ukulele strums.
As the self-proclaimed and proud indie-rock kid that I 
was my sophomore year of high school, I had no idea what lo-fi was when I first discovered the genre. But I liked it — 
really, really liked it.
I traded in my winding guitars, plucky bass, and 
raging drum solos for a downtempo beat, hints of crackly distortion, and easy rhythm. Fast forward to today, and 
putting on a lo-fi playlist when I sit down to do homework is just as necessary as having a pen — and I’m not the only one who feels this way. 
I feel as though this is another aspect of lo-fi that attracts 
people — the humanity of its imperfections. It feels closer to us, more tangible, despite the irony of it being one of 
the most overproduced genres of music. And while lo-fi is 
a primarily instrumental genre, it does feature vocal loops that act as the “lyrics. ” From utilizing mindless phrases 
to full-on excerpts from “The Fault in Our Stars, ” what’s 
interesting about lo-fi artists now is their inclusion of these pop culture references, which arguably keeps lo-fi alive 
and changing. The genre transformed from nothing but 
looped beats to an actual backtrack used in other genres, like bedroom pop.
All this does is feed into our love of all things nostalgia, 
which is especially apparent in our time. With polaroids and disposable cameras coming back, vinyl record sales on the rise, and countless trends calling back to the 90’s, 
lo-fi helps to evoke those timeless, nostalgic feelings that 
we crave.
We’re a generation born just a bit too late to be lumped 
in with millenials, and born just a bit too early to be 
considered Gen Z. We have an obsession with relatability, to find a niche and fit in. And however superficial, overproduced, or meaningless that lo-fi may seem, it feels 
real. It feels like us. 
However you may feel, I’ll be spending my next few 
years listening to some chill beats.
 
— JAHFREEN  ALAM 
A&E EditorHaving been born in 2001, I grew up in a golden age 
of video game consoles. The early 2000s introduced me to 
gaming through the Playstation 2 and 3, Xbox and Xbox 
360, Gamecube, and Wii. My earliest memory of playing video games is playing as James Bond in “007: Agent Under 
Fire. ” Playing this game made me feel like I could be James 
Bond, a suave badass. Another notable memory probably includes playing “Nazi Zombies” on “Call of Duty: World at War” for the first time with my cousin, behind my mom’s 
back of course. Just watching the intro cut scene of zombies 
running towards the player as the screen turned black with the words “Nazi Zombies” in blood-red ran shivers down 
my seven-year-old spine. While I am not the biggest gamer 
in the world, I have played enough video games, both old and new, to recognize how important video games truly 
are. To state the obvious, video games are one of the only 
mediums that give the user complete control of what the character does. This form of media makes a great platform for storytelling as the user can control some or all aspects 
of how the story progresses. Great examples of video 
games with great storytelling include “The Last of Us, ” “Uncharted, ” “The Legend of Zelda” series, and “Bioshock. ” 
Thus, why are video games not taken as seriously as other mediums like movies? 
 People who play video games have been asking 
themselves this question for as long as they have been 
playing video games. Video games have, for the most part of their history, been regulated to the background 
of media. They never get massive attention for when 
thought-provoking storylines come up, but always seem to be the scapegoat of why there is violence amongst the youth. I remember how my mom scolded me when she 
saw me playing “Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare” with my 
cousin. Y et, she would gladly let me watch movies like “The Terminator” and “Saving Private Ryan. ” I believe the issue 
lies within the previous generation’s understanding of what 
video games were. Video games to the previous generation were nothing more than simple and for children, such as 
“Super Mario Bros. ” and “Pac-Man. ” This understanding of 
what video games were then never grew as the technology to develop them improved. However, video games now are obviously far from simple and far from works for children.
Video games now, with all the technology used to 
develop them, and the overall creative genius from rising developers, have become works of art. Works of art with 
amazing music, visuals, dialogue, and characters. Video games are for everybody because people can be anybody. 
That is the one upper hand that video games will always 
have. Movies allow people to relate to the main character, 
but video games allow people to be that character. Because of this, I believe that video games will lead the way as a 
storytelling medium for a long time.
Speaking of video games — the UCSD Guardian arts 
and entertainment section is collaborating with the “Sonic 
the Hedgehog” movie. Five winners will get free passes 
for the film’s early showing on Feb. 8, 10:00 a.m. at AMC 
Mission Valley, as well as a limited edition Sonic beanie, and 10 winners will get a package of Sonic swag. In order 
to enter the raffle, like us on Facebook, use the link in our 
Facebook bio to sign up for our newsletter, and leave us a comment letting us know!
 
— hector  arrieta
Staff Writer
Let’s “24/7 Lo-Fi Hip-Hop to Relax and Study To” and Chill. A Love Letter to Video Games
PHOTO COURTESY OF YOUTUBEPHOTO COURTESY OF YOUTUBEPHOTO COURTESY OF HYPERION DEVPHOTO COURTESY OF HYPERION DEV10                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  3 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
by The Lifestyle Editors eeks & Previews PP      
2020 is whizzing by! Make the most 
of the second month of the year with a 
whole extra day — happy leap year! — and by checking out some of these local events. February is Museum Month  in 
San Diego. Pick up a discount pass to enjoy half-off admission to over 40 museums and attractions, including Birch Aquarium, Fleet Science Center, 
the Japanese Friendship Garden, or 
the Natural History Museum. Visit 
a favorite exhibit or take the 
opportunity to check out 
something new. 
On Feb. 8, walk or 
run through San Diego’s 
only national park at the 
Cabrillo Sunrise 5K . Run 
or walk through Cabrillo 
National Monument and 
enjoy amazing views of 
the ocean, while your proceeds benefit the park’s 
many programs, including conservation, outreach, 
and science education for kids. 
Celebrate the year of 
the rat with a Chinese 
New Y ear fair on Feb. 8 and Feb. 9. A stretch of downtown San Diego will turn into an open market with food and goods vendors, and attendees can also enjoy performances from local music and dance groups.
Curtains-up! San Diego Theatre 
Week is taking place from Feb. 13 to Feb. 
23, where participating performance arts groups will be offering special discounted tickets. Go on a strange journey with OB Playhouse’s Rocky Horror Picture Show for $15, see August Wilson’s Tony-award-winning play “Jitney” at the Old Globe for $30, or let it all go with Broadway San Diego’s Performance of “Frozen” for $45*. 
There are also a number of music and 
dance performances being offered. 
The San Diego International Jewish 
Film Festival is also taking place from Feb. 13 toFeb. 23. Over 30 documentaries, full-length movies, and short films will be shown at five venues all over San Diego county.
Have a laugh at the Fabulously 
Funny Comedy Festival  on Feb. 18, 
headlined by comedian Mike Epps. Gary Owen, Sommore, Mark Curry, and Lavell Crawford will also be making appearances. 
The annual Kuumba Festival , 
a celebration of African-American expression and culture, takes place from Feb. 28 to March 1 at the San Diego Repertory Theatre. Check out cultural vendors and educational workshops at the African Market Place, engage in discussions on media and movements, and attend shows touching on different aspects of the Black experience. 
*Some performances are taking place 
after Theatre Week but are still eligible for discounts. Check out the Theatre Week website for more information. 
February
LIFESTYLE      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Best Movies to Get Your Valentine’s Day Rom-Com Fix
by Colleen Conradi Lifestyle Editor
Welcome to February! Whether you like it or not, for 
at least the next two weeks we will all be bombarded by 
Valentine’s Day advertisements and sales while making your way through the teddy bears and heart-shaped chocolate boxes section for “that special someone” in every store you go in to. Single or not, something I think February is the perfect month to catch up on all of your favorite romantic comedies. So go ahead and get comfy 
on the couch and watch the tried and true films like 
“Love, Actually, ” “Valentine’s Day, ” or “Bridget Jones’s Diary, ” but if you’re looking for some more titles to check out, I’ve got the best lined up just for you!
Fever Pitch (2005)
Okay, some may say this is one of the cheesiest 
plot lines ever, but it is one of my top guilty pleasures. How many of you actually knew Jimmy Fallon was a lead in a romantic comedy?! Fallon, a middle school teacher and die hard Boston Red Sox fan, stars alongside 
Drew Barrymore, an overworked businesswoman who 
is married to her job, in this story of love and baseball. Fallon holds season tickets and has never missed a home game in his life, which gets in the way of his relationship. 
In the end, he is left with a decision: will he choose the 
girl of his dreams or his love for the Sox?! 
How To Lose A Guy In 10 Days (2003)
This classic features Kate Hudson and Matthew 
McConaughey as a relationship that started as experiments for the both of them turns into true love in a matter of 10 days! McConaughey, employed in the diamond business, bets his boss he could make any woman fall in love with him in 10 days and meets Hudson, a magazine writer who is working on her next article: how to lose a guy in 10 days by using “classic” mistakes a woman makes in new relationships. Watch as Hudson and McConaughey spend 10 days together buying a “love fern, ” attending a Celine Dion concert, and a high tension poker night with 
the guys, until realizing their love for each other was real 
the entire time!
The Way We Were (1973)
Though this one is a bit older and more of just a romance than a romantic comedy, it is still an amazing movie. Two young adults, played by Barbara Streisand and Robert Redford, start out their romance after meeting in college. Streisand, a passionate, anti-war activist, and Redford, a charming, boy next door with no political affiliation, try and make their relationship work in a post World War II world. Though their love for each other is deep, their differences prove to be too much in the end. If anything, watch this film for the heartbreaking scene after one of their break-ups; Streisand, distressed and teary-eyed, calls up Redford to tell him she would love to talk to her best friend about the break-up, but she realized her only best friend is Redford himself.
Dirty Dancing (1987)
This is a very well known classic, yet such an essential for the list. If you haven’t seen this film, it’s about time you did yourself a favor and sat down and watched it! Jennifer Grey stars as Baby, a teenage girl trying to make the most of her last summer before entering the Peace Corps. When plans don’t go the way she hoped, she ends up at a quiet, non-eventful resort in the Catskills with her parents. Baby thinks the summer is dead, until she meets the dance instructor, Johnny, and everything changes. Watch their love evolve and you’ll find yourself singing and crying to the final, iconic dance scene. February
PHOTO COURTESY OF LEAFLYPHOTO COURTESY OF LEAFLY12                                           T H E  U C S D  G U A R D I A N  |  M O N D AY,  F E B R U A R Y  3 ,  2 0 2 0  |  W W W. U C S D G U A R D I A N . O R G  LIFESTYLE
Sign up and
register at
ucsd.turbovote.org
In The Kitchen: Miso-Ginger Soup
by Annika Olives Lifestyle Editor
We’re coming up on Week 5, which 
means that the effects of exhaustion — 
fatigue, sore throats, and runny noses — are beginning to catch up to us. I’ve been feeling pretty under the weather for a while now but managed to pick up some ingredients to pull together this really simple soup that was instantly warming and very filling. 
Since I don’t have a car, I sometimes 
find it hard to make asian food because I don’t have access to an Asian grocery store. That’s why this miso-ginger broth from Trader Joe’s was a really great find — it serves as the base of the soup and the flavor can be supplemented with garlic, 
more ginger, or other spices. Miso is great 
because it’s rich in probiotics and helps supplement your stomach with healthy bacteria, and ginger has a lot of anti-inflammatory properties. 
I chose basic ingredients that were 
easy to find and quick to cook, but the 
wonderful thing about this soup is that 
you can literally add anything to this broth — I chose tofu because I’m trying to eat less meat, but feel free to add chicken or beef if you’re not the biggest tofu fan. 
Cook Time
25 minutes 
Ingredients
 - 1 pack of Trader Joe’s Miso-Ginger 
Broth 
 - 2 heads of bok choy  - 1 pack of firm tofu - 3-4 oz of shiitake mushrooms  - Salt - Pepper  - Noodles (optional)  - A few cloves of garlic (optional) 
 - Soy sauce (optional)
Step 1 
Heat up a large pot and pour your 
broth in. Mince your garlic and add it to 
the broth. 
Step 2
Prepare your tofu and mushrooms. If 
you’ve never cooked with tofu before, cut a slit in the top of the packaging and drain the liquid. Pat the tofu down with a paper towel to remove some of the moisture, then cut into 2-inch pieces. Wash your mushrooms and cut them lengthwise.
Step 3
Once your broth is boiling, add the 
tofu and mushrooms. Cover with a lid and let boil for around 15 to 20 minutes, until the tofu has hardened a little bit and the mushrooms are chewy. Stir periodically — the tofu and mushrooms will rise to the top for a bit, but this is okay! 
Step 4 
Separate the bok choy leaves and give 
them a wash. I prefer to cut the ends a bit and put the whole leaves in, but you can also choose to chop the bok choy into pieces if you want them smaller. If you want to add noodles, now would be a good time to cook them in a separate pot!  
Step 5
Once your tofu and mushrooms are cooked, lower the heat and add your bok choy. Stir a bit and put the lid back on until the bok choy leaves have wilted. 
Step 6
Time to season! I added a few dashes 
of soy sauce to salt the broth, since it’s not very seasoned right out of the box. Add salt and pepper to your liking. 
Step 7
Spoon into a bowl and enjoy! This was large enough to last me 
through three dinners, which I thought was pretty reasonable given how inexpensive the ingredients were. On the 
first night, I added soba noodles, but the 
soup is also good by itself since there’s so much tofu in it. The soup tasted better on the second and third nights as well since the tofu absorbed more of the broth, so it’s also a meal that gets better over time. 
If you try making this soup, feel free 
to shoot an email over to lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org with your feedback! Good luck with midterms, Tritons! 
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
ALICIA OLATUJATHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7
THE LOFT • PRICE CENTER EAST
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDA Y
in The  Guardian
Calendar
SUBM IT y our
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguar dian.org12pm
ASIAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY 
FORUM - CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
This informal drop-in group is designed to talk 
about topics relevant to Asian American students 
at UCSD in a supportive and problem-solving 
atmosphere. Issues such as career and academic success, family pressures, cultural identity, and relationships are common topics. Contact: Dr. Diana Quach, Ph.D. 858-5345-7710 or Diquach@ucsd.edu Location: Cross Cultural Center
12pm
GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL 
STUDENT SUPPORT FORUM- GSA GRAD LOUNGE
A supportive drop-in space for graduate and 
professional school students seeking strategies for resilience, perseverance, and flourishing. Common themes include: stress management, sustaining motivation, recovering from set-backs, work/life balance, and navigating interpersonal challenges ( personal and professional). 
3:30pm
COMING OUT GROUP - WOMEN'S 
CENTER SMALL GROUP ROOM
The Coming Out group is a place to meet and gain support while discussing your sexual and/ or gender Identities in a confidential setting. This group is for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, straight, or questioning folks who are coming out, considering coming out or may already be out. Topics are determined by group participants and can include stress, fear, anxiety, loneliness, family/ cultural issues, excitement and celebration with regard coming out. The group is open to new members the first 3 meetings of each quarter and then closes to maintain safe space.
6pm
THE UNTOLD HERSTORY: WOMEN'S 
VOTING RIGHTS AROUND THE 
WORLD - GREEN TABLE ROOM
This event will discuss women's voting rights 
around the world. In the panel, we will explore the untold stories of women in different parts of the world who legally have the right to vote yet are systematically oppressed to exercise that right. We will also extend the conversation to women-identified folks and discuss their voting behavior and political participation. This is an open space event where students can also share their personal experiences and perspective on the contemporary voting system. Students will have the opportunity to register to vote and learn about the voting process.,2pm
HOW FAR WE'LL GO: NAVIGATING 
HEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS - BEAR 
ROOM, 2ND LEVEL OF PRICE 
CENTER WEST
This program offers an overview of qualities of a 
healthy relationship, signs of an unhealthy/ abusive relationship, and working with campus resources. Presented by Heejeong Kim, Program Assistant & Peer Education Coordinator, CARE at SARC
6:30pm
HARRIET - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Celebrate Black History Month with a FREE 
showing of the movie Harriet, hosted by University Centers and the Women's Center!
8pm
CHA WA - PRICE CENTER EAST 
BALLROOM
From funk-laced beats and bass-heavy 
sousaphone blasts to the gritty warmth of singer JWan Boudreauxs voice, New Orleans brass band-meets-Mardi Gras Indian outfit Cha Wa radiates the energy of the Crescent City's street culture. Enchanted by the music and traditions of the Mardi Gras Indians, Cha Wa's Grammy-nominated album Spyboy is a modern mix of fiery, toe-tapping sounds and highlights the musicians personal ties to the street music of their hometown. "We wanted to take the roots of what we love about New Orleans brass band music and Mardi Gras Indian music and then voice it in our own way," says the groups drummer and founder, Joe Gelini.TUE2.04
THU2.06MON2.03
12pm
AWAKEN HEALING THROUGH DEEP 
RELAXATION AND MEDITATION 
WORKSHOP - RIMAC ACTIVITY 
ROOM 3
Join Vou for an afternoon of deep relaxation (yoga 
nidra) and ancient and science-based meditation practices that help to ignite the mind's and body's healing capabilities.SUN2.0910am
PROJECT RISHI - TALENT SHOW 
AUDITIONS - UCSD PC THEATRE
We are hosting a talent show this year on March 
7th to bring the San Diego community together and raise awareness about Project RISHI. If you are interested in showing your talent fill out the form and be there at auditions on February 8th! 
12pm
DATAHACKS 2020 - PC EAST 
BALLROOM
The Data Science Student Society (DS3) is proud to present DataHacks, a 24-hour data science hackathon! You'll be able to attend workshops to teach you about the basics of data science, machine learning, and the libraries you should know to succeed. This event will expose you to working with real world data, new friends you can pursue projects with after the event, and sponsors who are looking for avid data scientists to offer opportunities to. DataHacks 2020 will be held in Price Center East on Feb 8th-9th 2020. Apply now at datahacks.tech!SAT2.08WED2.05
10am
PERSONAL BRANDING FOR YOUR 
CAREER IN 2020 - HORIZON ROOM @ CAREER CENTER
Are you ready for your next milestone? Join 
Outreach and UCSD Career Center to learn about personal branding. We will be covering Linkedin, your story, and free Linkedin headshots at the last portion of the event. Please dress in business attire for the photos.
2pm
CAPS WELLNESS - THE ZONE
Meet us at The Zone where you'll have the opportunity for one-on-one demonstration with a CAPS Wellness Peer Educator to learn how to 
incorporate state of the art technology for stress 
management! You'll learn strategies such as 
progressive muscles relaxation and deep breathing techniques that help to reduce stress 
as well as learn about some cool technology. 
We'll have free giveaways each week AND you 
can sign up for a FREE de-stress massage with the R&R Squad! Make sure to check out The 
Zone calendar for info on this and other free 
wellness programs! 
2pm
SRC SERIES: UCSD CLIMATE 
ACTION PLAN - SUSTAINABILITY 
RESOURCE CENTER
Stop by the SRC on Wednesday, February 5th 
from 2 - 3 PM to hear from Michelle Perez, the 
Interim Director of Sustainability and Carbon 
Neutrality, as she explains and discusses the UC San Diego Climate Action Plan.10am
MOVE YOUR BODY, TONE YOUR 
MIND – THE ZONE
Interested in a moving meditation? Join us in 
learning postures to help reduce stress and anxiety,and improve your mood. This practice will 
lead you to a sense of peace and general 
well-being. Dr. Dianna Quach is clinical 
psychologist and a certified yoga instructor, RYT. All levels are welcomed! Yoga mats are 
provided! 
1pm
CIVIC LEARNING AND DEMOCRATIC 
ENGAGEMENT AT UC SAN DIEGO – ROOSEVELT COLLEGE ROOM, 2ND 
LEVEL OF PRICE CENTER WEST
In this workshop we offer a definition of Civic 
Engagement and 10 characteristics of a civically engaged student body. We facilitate conversations that help current students identify civic engagement opportunities at UC San Diego and vision opportunities that dont yet exist. Presented by Heather Belk, Director of Associated Students Administration & Patricia Mahaffey, Assistant Vice Chancellor, Student Life
4pm
CROSS-CULTRAL CENTER HIRING 
2020-2021 INTERNS DEADLINE 
EXTENDED – CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
The Cross-Cultural Center is accepting 
applications for the 2020-2021 cohort! Deadline extended to Week 5 Monday, February 3rd!
FRI2.07
8pm
ALICIA OLATUJA - THE LOFT
Once you have listened to acclaimed vocalist, 
composer, and arranger Alicia Olatuja, you wont soon forget her. Praised in the New York Times as a singer with a strong and luscious tone, Olatuja combines the earthy with the sublime. Olatuja returns to ArtPower with her new project: "Intuition: Songs From The Minds Of Women," celebrating the musical contributions of women composers by reinterpreting their songs through her own lens of classic, jazzy soul. Intuition is a dazzling journey through time, tempo, genre, language, and culture from some of the most respected artists of our generation, featuring songs by Sade, Angela Bofill, Brenda Russell, Linda Creed, Imogen Heap, Tracy Chapman, Kate Bush, and others.Tahrir WEEKTHI S
at UC SAN DI EGO
FEB 3 - FEB 9
2020
POWER ED BY THE ST UDENT  EV ENTS IN SIDER AND T HE UCSD GU ARDIAN
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
WHAT’S YOUR SIGNCLASSIFIEDS& MORE
CROSSWORD PUZZLE
WORD SEARCH SUDOKU
ACROSS
1. Molecule part
5. Ambition9. Skirt fold
14. Father
15. Reign
16. Rental agreement17. Very skinny19. Relieved
20. Eases up
21. Ziti and macaroni
22. Smallest25. ____ Beach (D-Day site)29. Rich dessert
30. NBC’s rival
33. Sorcery
34. Bombshell ____ West35. Plot36. Not active
37. Is able
38. ____ Witherspoon of “Walk the Line”
39. Fork feature40. Temporary craze41. Angry42. Used a stool43. Imitate45. Exterior46. Air a TV program48. Calm51. Almost grown56. Entertain57. Revered59. Type of bean60. Dry61. Pare62. Guide63. Bugle call64. Fruit beveragesDOWN
1. One who mimics2. Not wild3. Colorful gem
4. Nutmeglike spice
5. Shred cheese
6. Get-go7. Pub order8. Showed the way
9. Make glad
10. Minimum
11. Orient12. On a ship13. Koppel and Kennedy
18. Unbroken
21. Baseball’s ____ Rose
23. Wandering24. Modern Persia25. Fails to include
26. Excessive excitement
27. Go-between
28. Employ30. Shoe spike31. Sew temporarily32. Show contempt35. Andean country37. Showed up38. Mob scene participant40. Manicurist’s tool43. Shooting star44. Feline delight46. Personal preference47. Plant beginnings48. Tree fluids49. Send out50. Sand hill52. ____ Valley (vineyard site)53. Not up yet54. Merriment55. Snakelike fish57. Tub58. Gay Nineties, e.g.FULL-TIME JOBS
Revit Drafter/Modeler & Architectural Job 
Captain - Established in 1974, Altevers 
Associates is one of southern California’s 
most prominent private country club and 
resort design firms. Our firm has oppor -
tunities for Architectural Job Captains 
and Revit Drafters/Modelers. We are looking for candidates with a Bachelor 
of Architecture from a NCARB….  ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation 
Skilled Mechanic - Will be repairing/ser -
vicing trailers. Boat/ 5th wheels/ dump 
/ utility. Basically brakes/ suspension/ general repairs/ tires. Top pay for quali -
fied applicants. Helpful to have a good 
attitude willing to work hard and learn. 
Mechanical ability a plus. Pay weekly. 
Openings now. Pay $13 to $30 per….  
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Service Advisor - Dualtone Automotive 
is looking for a Full time Service Advisor 
to join our team. We are a family owned 
business for over 70 years and counting. 
We are looking for a Service Advisor 
with at least 1 Year experience. We offer competitive pay (50k-70k), benefits and 
vacations. Candidate must have….  ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
TUTORING JOBS 
San Diego JavaScript Tutor Jobs - Varsity 
Tutors has students in San Diego looking 
for JavaScript tutoring. Varsity Tutors is 
a live learning platform that connects 
tutors with students to provide person -
alized learning. In addition to having 
knowledge in Spanish, clients also look for tutors who are friendly, articulate, and reliable. Working as a tutor on the Varsity 
Tutors platform includes several benefits, such as the flexibility….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
San Diego ACT Math Tutor Jobs - Varsity 
Tutors is always looking for bright indi -
viduals in San Diego who are passionate 
about mentoring others. Aside from hav -
ing knowledge in a subject area, tutors should also be friendly, articulate, and 
punctual. Working with Varsity Tutors in San Diego includes several benefits, such 
as the flexibility….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
San Diego Wyoming Bar Exam Tutor 
Jobs - Varsity Tutors has students in #San 
Diego looking for Wyoming Bar exam 
tutoring. Varsity Tutors is a live learning 
platform that connects tutors with stu -
dents to provide personalized learning. 
In addition to having knowledge of the 
Wyoming Bar Exam, clients also look for 
tutors who are friendly, articulate, and 
reliable. Working as a tutor on the Varsity 
Tutors platform….  ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
CARS
1952 Chevrolet Delivery 2 Door Panel highly impressive 2 Door Panel Wagon  
- This highly impressive 1952 Chevrolet 
Delivery 2 Door Panel Wagon with 
orange and white exterior paint, hand-
laid gold leaf pinstriping and a black 
vinyl interior. You’ll find a Fitech 350 fuel injected V-8 engine under the hood with a 700R automatic transmission and this impressive wagon….  ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
New 2020 Volvo XC60 T8 eAWD Plug-
in Hybrid - Nav System, Moonroof, 
Heated Leather interior, Panoramic Roof, Rear Air, iPod/MP3 Input, CRYSTAL 
WHITE METALLIC, WHEELS: 20 8-SPOKE 
BLACK DIAMOND CUT..., 4-CORNER 
AIR SUSPENSION W/FOUR-C ACTI..., 
ADVANCED PACKAGE, All Wheel Drive, 
Power Liftgate, CHARCOAL, LEATHER SEATING SURFACES….  ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Used 2016 Honda HR-V 2WD 4dr CVT 
- EPA 35 MILES-PER-GALLON Hwy/28 MILES-PER-GALLON City! Milano Red exterior and Black interior, LX trim. ONLY 
18,980mis! Bluetooth, Cd system, iPod/MP3 Input, Alloy rims, Back-Up Camera. 
KEY FEATURES INCLUDE: Back-Up 
Camera, iPod/MP3 Input, Bluetooth, Cd 
system Rear….  ucsdguardian.org/clas-
sifieds for more information
t
your vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our m ission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student organization with Triton Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!1
78
5
439
5
64
38
79
16
21
4
537
1
8
6
CROSSWORD SOLUTIONSolutions at bottom of pageSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
HELPING TRITONS IN NEEDTRITON FOOD PANTRY
AT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 1Monday: 1 0am-3pm
Tuesday: 11am-4pm
Wednesday: 11am-4pm
Thursday: 1 2pm-5pm
Friday: 1 pm-4pmWINTER 2020After spending a week on the 
road in Missouri, the UC San 
Diego Tritons men’s volleyball team returned home for a pair 
of matches against two top-15 
opponents. In a pair of closely 
fought contests, the Tritons took down the Princeton Tigers in four sets, 23–25, 25–20, 26–24, 25–19, 
while falling to the Concordia 
University, Irvine Eagles in four sets, 21–25, 25–19, 16–25, 19–25.
UCSD came into the week fresh 
off of a three-game winning streak, 
and with a top-15 ranking for the 
first time since 2013. Their mettle 
certainly was tested during the last week, with mixed results. While 
the team showed resilience against 
Princeton a fter falling behind a fter 
the first set, the intensity and size 
of CCI proved too much for the 
Tritons. 
“[Concordia Irvine] always 
plays with a lot of energy and a lot of passion on the court, and they’re 
very scrappy defensively, ” said 
UCSD head coach Kevin Ring a fter 
the loss. “I think we have another 
gear or two that we can play on our 
side, so credit them, they won the 
match, but we certainly did some 
things that hurt our chances. ”
In the first set against the Eagles, 
the Tritons fell behind early, going down 6–1. Despite 2 kills from 
sophomore middle blocker Shane 
Benetz and 2 blocks from redshirt 
sophomore middle blocker Gabe 
Avillion, 4 missed serves and 4 
missed spikes for the remainder of 
the set kept UCSD from sustaining 
a long run. But thanks to 5 missed 
serves from CCI, the Tritons 
found themselves down just 17–
21 near the end of the set. Kills from junior outside hitter Wyatt 
Harrison and junior outside hitter 
Kyle McCauley brought the score to within 2 points, prompting at 
CCI timeout, ultimately failing to 
mount the comeback. 
The second set went di fferently 
for UCSD as the Tritons fought 
to match the intensity coming 
from across the court. McCauley 
unleashed 9 kills, accounting for 4 of the last 8 Tritons points to 
finish the set. Avillion continued 
to log major time in the second 
set as well, rewarding head coach 
Kevin Ring with 4 kills, including 
his third stu ff block o ff the match 
to give UCSD a 24–18 lead and 
putting an exclamation point on 
the 5–0 run before a missed serve 
by the Eagles ended the set and 
knotted the match at 1–1.   
After keeping things close early, 
a challenge that went the way of the Eagles seemed to suck the air out of 
the arena. From that point on, CCI 
outscored UCSD 14–7 to win the 
set 25  –16, with plenty of energy to 
go around. The nine-point lead the 
Eagles had by the end of the set was the largest of the match for either 
team.
Heading into the fourth set, 
Harrison pulled his teammates 
into a huddle to calm them down 
and prepare them for a comeback, 
but CCI’s energy continued to 
reign supreme. A fter a wild save 
from Walbrecht that led to a gym-
rocking kill from McCauley to tie 
the fourth set a 13–13, the Eagles 
never lacked focus.No. 15 Men’s Volleyball Splits Week of Matches with 
Ranked Opponents Princeton, Concordia Irvine
Jack  dorfman  sports@ucsdguardian.orgPHOTO BY ELLIE WANGPHOTO BY ELLIE WANG16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2020 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
JACK DORFMAN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
at Concordia Irvine 
vs Point Lomavs Point LomaUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM Volleyball
M Tennis
Baseball 7PM3PM5PM2/42/52/6
It’s been one week since the 
helicopter crash that took the 
lives of nine, including basketball 
legend Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gianna Bryant, a rising 
star and inspiration in her own 
right. 
In the immediate a ftermath, 
waves of denial and shock crashed 
through the lives of the entire 
sports world. The emotions of 
millions manifested in the swarms 
of Los Angeles residents heading 
to the Staples Center to begin to grieve collectively amongst the 
hordes of jersey-clad fans and 
to the Mamba Sports Academy in Thousand Oaks, Kobe’s final 
intended destination. 
Over the last week since the 
crash, many fans, myself included, took comfort in reflecting on our 
time on Earth with Kobe and how 
great of an impact he had, not only 
with his feats on the court but even 
more broadly with how we live our 
lives. To dig more deeply into how 
he affected the lives of sports fans 
and athletes, and especially those 
from my generation, I interviewed 
members of the men’s and women’s UC San Diego basketball teams. In this article, I’ll relate 
their feelings on Kobe and GiGi 
and how their unique position as college basketball players may 
have skewed their experience over 
the last week. 
The tragedy goes beyond sports 
in so many ways, even though Kobe and his daughter were two basketball icons that inspired 
hoopers across generations. Players definitely seemed 
cognizant of their mortality and 
how important basketball is in 
their lives when reflecting on the loss. 
“He was this legend and he 
seemed so untouchable, and that this tragic thing could happen to him puts things in perspective, ” 
said sophomore guard Brianna 
Claros. “ They were just going 
to practice, going through their 
everyday routine, which shows 
how it could really happen to anyone. ”
For players on both teams, an emphasis on shared experience and feelings when coming 
together as a team has helped with 
the coping process, which was distinct from what they’ d been 
able to get out of coming together 
with millions of others on social media. 
“It’s diff erent for a basketball 
team, especially for our team and age group. We kind of all felt that same sort of devastation, ” said 
redshirt freshman guard and LA 
native, Justin Pratt.. “It was tough for us as a team but at the same 
time being together we kind of all 
had the same feelings so that made it easier for us to share our feelings about it. ” 
“It definitely helps knowing 
that you’re not the only one going through the situation, ” said 
redshirt junior Mikey Howell. 
“Just having that support system 
that you can always go to and 
knowing that you’re not alone 
helps. ” 
But just because these student-
athletes have a unique support system doesn’t mean that they 
were able to just go out and perform, business as usual, a fter 
Kobe’s passing. Players felt the 
importance of honoring Bryant’s 
memory through basketball, but also the weight of playing without 
their icon. 
“The first practice coming back 
[after his loss] was tough, ” said 
redshirt senior forward Christian 
Oshita. “My mind wasn’t in the game. Being a kid from LA, he 
meant so much to me growing up. Tonight, I just wanted to come out 
and compete. ” 
As young players growing their 
game during Kobe’s reign in the NBA, many players tried to work 
on their game to emulate Bryant. 
Some of their clearest basketball memories involve Kobe’s play during the 2010 NBA Finals or 
his scoring output during his last 
game. But for all of the talk of trying to utilize one of his mid-
post moves or fadeaways, every 
player I talked to mentioned something else about his game as 
well. “I’ve tried emulating his game 
a little bit but it’s more just his mindset, ” said Oshita. “He’s always 
[been] on my mind even before he passed, especially how he 
attacks his workouts and his whole 
process to keep getting better. ”
Many other Tritons echoed 
how they try to live up to his work 
ethic, and the women’s basketball team is taking things a step further by trying to use Kobe’s example to 
make themselves better. 
“Kobe never wanted to settle 
with where he was at; everything he did was game-like, ” said junior guard Tyla Turner, who is also from LA. “We are trying 
to transfer that as a team and as 
individuals. I’ve been personally trying to work more towards not 
being complacent with where I’m 
at. ”
That desire to model their 
mentality a fter Kobe’s leached 
into which moments players remembered as those which defined his legacy. For Oshita, who 
spent much of last season out with 
injury, Kobe’s resiliency helped him fight to get back onto the 
court. Turner’s most memorable Kobe moment also used the Black Mamba’s example as a marking post for how to deal with pain. 
“He had tore his Achillies 
and he kept playing. That’s a 
serious ligament, ” remembered Turner. “I was inspired by that and [from then on] I thought ‘My 
injuries aren’t that serious either. 
Everything is fine. ’
For all of the memories 
of his game-winners and 
championship rings, in the years 
after his retirement, Kobe’s role 
in promoting women’s basketball 
through his widely-publicized 
relationship with GiGi became his new legacy. 
“Not only was he a great 
basketball player, but he also had a huge impact o ff the court 
especially for women’s basketball 
and [their] representation, ” said 
Claros. “People would always ask him if he wanted a son to carry 
on his legacy, and he always told 
people he had GiGi to carry on his legacy. ”
While Kobe’s loss may never 
leave the minds of these players 
and others deeply a ffected by him, 
the UCSD basketball players will 
continue to work to live up to his standards in their own play and to 
push his values to the forefront of 
what they do for the rest of their lives. 
On a career scoring night o ff 
the bench by junior guard Gabe Hadley, the No. 4 UC San Diego Tritons (20–1, 14–1 California Collegiate Athletic Association) 
routed an outmatched Humboldt 
State University Lumberjacks squad (7–13, 3–12 CCAA) 85–63 
for a team-record 12th consecutive 
win. Hadley had 18 points in the first-half and finished with 25, his 
highest career scoring mark. 
The Tritons returned to 
RIMAC Arena a fter defeating 
San Francisco State University 
and Sonoma State University by 
25 and 35, respectively, last week. The match was preceded by a 
somber moment of silence for the recent deaths of NBA legend Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna, and 
the seven other victims of a fatal 
helicopter crash last Sunday in Calabasas. The Lumberjacks led 
for the first few minutes of the game, but back-to-back three-
pointers from redshirt sophomore 
guard Tyrell Roberts and senior forward Scott Everman brought the Tritons up 13–10 4 minutes in. 
On the defensive end, the Tritons 
were keyed by junior forward Marek Sullivan, who had a career-
high four steals — all in the first-
half — to help the Tritons regain 
the lead.
However, an 11–2 run in 
the middle of the half gave the Lumberjacks a 23–17 lead with just under 9 minutes remaining. 
Hadley responded with a textbook 
turnaround midrange jumper, and on the next possession, Sullivan 
poked the ball to Peterson, who 
pushed the ball down the court until he found a cutting Sullivan 
for an easy transition dunk. Still, 
with 6 minutes remaining in the first, the Lumberjacks hung 
around, forcing a tie at 26 — but they didn’t count on the ensuring 
scoring clinic from Hadley. 
First, he took the lead on a 
clean left-handed layup in tra ffic. 
After Humboldt State wrested the 
lead back with a three of its own, 
Hadley drained his first trey of the 
night from the left-center of the 
arc. Following a Lumberjack layup 
to tie, Hadley poured in another three, this time o ff of an inbounds 
pass from redshirt junior guard Mikey Howell. On the Tritons’ next possession, Hadley made yet another downtown shot from 
the left corner — and on the next 
possession, he scored a three yet again, his fourth in under 2 
minutes. Soon a fter, Howell stole 
the ball and found the red-hot 
Hadley for a layup, capping o ff 
a remarkable run where Hadley scored 14 straight Triton points. He had 18 at the half, and the 
Tritons finally looked in control at the half, leading 44–38. 
After the Lumberjacks came 
within 4 early in the second-half, 
the Tritons’ o ffense finally began 
to click and pull away. Redshirt 
senior guard Christian Oshita 
muscled his way into the paint for a deft hook shot o ff the glass, 
then followed it up with a wide-open three on the next possession. This was followed by threes from 
Roberts and Hadley, and a pullup 
jumper o ff a spin move from 
Hadley capped o ff a 17–5 Triton 
run with the lead 61–43; in the 
first 10 minutes of the second 
period, the Tritons outscored the Lumberjacks by a whopping 
26–7. Hadley scored his career-
high 25th points on an acrobatic baseline reverse layup, as he 
switched from his right to his left  
to bring the lead to 80–57. The last 
few minutes of the game saw little of note, and the match ended with a 85–63 UCSD blowout. 
The Tritons shot 45.1 percent 
from the field and a cool 15 for 33 
(45.5 percent) from downtown; 
in addition to Hadley’s 25 points, 
Roberts added 17 and Everman 
11. Howell led the team with seven assists, while Oshita grabbed a 
team-high nine boards. The win 
cements the Tritons’ 2.5-game lead 
over California State University, 
San Bernardino in the CCAA, as 
they seek their fourth consecutive conference title.
Kobe’s Impact Ripples Through 
Tritons Basketball
Hadley Leads Tritons to Blowout Twelfth Straight WinJack  dorfman  sports@ucsdguardian.org
pra veen  nair  prnair@ucsd.eduART BY ALEX LIANGART BY ALEX LIANG