Accessed 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Transition to Online Spring Quarter Amidst Coronavirus Concerns - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: UCSD to Transition to Online Spring 
Quartermidst Coronavirus Concerns
 March 9, 2020  Daisy ScottTo learn more about The UCSD Guardian's coverage of the COVID-19  
pandemic, click here
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here .
UC San Diego Chancellor Pradeep Khosla announced in an email sent to the UCSD student  
body Monday night that Spring Quarter classes will be held remotely due to concerns  
surrounding the coronavirus. At this time, there are no known cases of coronavirus on the  
UCSD campus. Accessed 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Transition to Online Spring Quarter Amidst Coronavirus Concerns - UCSD Guardian
“We remain in contact with the California Department of Public Health, San Diego County  
officials, university health officials and the UC Office of the President,” Chancellor Khosla  
states in his email.
The email explains that for the remainder of Winter Quarter instruction, from Monday 
night through March 20, classes will continue to meet in person. However, professors have 
been instructed to cease considering attendance requirements as a part of their students’ 
grades. 
Once Spring Quarter begins on March 30, UCSD courses will be held remotely via online 
access. The chancellor’s email cites both Zoom, a site used for live and recorded video 
sessions, and the campus’s current online portal, Canvas, as tools for this transition.
Classes that require in-person participation and experiences, such as lab courses and studio 
classes, will not be affected by these changes. Additionally, on-campus housing and dining 
services will not be closed during this time period. 
The email was sent in a staggered manner, meaning that certain students received it before 
others. This led to widespread confusion and concern among students Monday evening. A 
spokesperson from Chancellor Khosla’s office commented on students not receiving the 
email at the same time.
“The staggered distribution was not intentional,” the spokesperson said. “There are 
approximately 75,000 emails in the “all-official-l” list, which was used to distribute the 
campus notice. That large volume of email causes the servers to send them out in batches 
resulting in the staggered distribution.”
The UCSD Guardian asked the student body to ask for their primary reactions, concerns, 
and questions regarding the online transition.
“What are they going to do with tuition since they are essentially discouraging going to 
campus? There’s so many fees going to resources other than tuition that it’s kind of useless 
if we can’t go on campus to use them.” Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Manyi Leung said.
“How will this affect on-campus housing and housing costs?”Accessed 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD to Transition to Online Spring Quarter Amidst Coronavirus Concerns - UCSD Guardian
“I just don’t think it’s that big of a deal,” Thurgood Marshall College senior Michael Lee 
said. “We should be aware of our habits and make better choices, but we shouldn’t be so 
anxious.” 
“I think that it’s really concerning for seniors or people graduating early because there’s so  
many questions about what events are going to be held, like Sun God or even  commencement, 
and how people are going to meet their professors to get a final letter of  recommendation,” 
Marshall College junior Heather Maitino said. “It’s also really unfortunate  because this is my 
last quarter at UCSD, so I was excited to finish strong.” 
In addition to the online transition of classes, the Chancellor’s email lists further precautions  
UCSD students and clubs are encouraged to take. These recommendations include canceling  
and postponing events that would involve more than 100 participants, and not having groups  
larger than 15 people visit campus. UCSD athletics will continue to host events, however it  
will not allow admission to fans to watch.
The email also advises UCSD students, as well as faculty and employees to limit their travel to 
countries the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention consider “to be of high risk for 
widespread and sustained community transition of the virus.” 
Students experiencing anxiety regarding the coronavirus are encouraged by the university to 
reach out to campus Counseling and Psychological Services. The university also recommends 
the maintenance of proper hygiene practices such as regularly washing hands, cleaning 
surfaces, and staying home if sick. Students who are sick and wish to visit the Student Health 
Center should call ahead to make appointments. An FAQ site addressing issues of interest to faculty is at
https://aps. ucsd. edu/facdev/covid-19/faq .html
Housing and Dining services will continue nom1al operations.
Travel Considerations
All students, faculty and staff should consider whether any mode of 
personal travel is necessary. We also encourage the campus community to
seek alternatives to business-related travel such as virtual meetings or
conference calls. 
Additionally, given the rapidly changing conditions of the global
outbreak, University of California President Janet Napolitano issued a
directive (https://tinyurl. com/trrhjqd) for all members of the UC
community. Faculty, staff and students are instructed to avoid all
non-essential, university -related travel to countries determined by the 
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to be of high risk 
for widespread and sustained community transmission of the virus. This 
would be countries that have COVID-19 Level 3 Travel Health Notices -
China, Iran, Italy and South Korea -and COVID-19 Level 2 Travel Health 
Notices, which currently includes Japan.
To view UC San Diego's interim policy, visit
https://aps. ucsd.edu/chinatravelpreapproval.html. If you do need to 
travel on university business, be sure to use Connexxus 
https://blink.ucsd.edu/travel/booking/connexxus/. If you do not use
Connexxus, be sure to register your trip with UC Away. Learn more at
https://www.ucop.edu/risk-services- travel/registering.html.
Health and Wellness 
We understand that members of the campus community are worried about the 
virus and may be experiencing heightened feelings of anxiety. If you
would like counseling services, there are resources available. If you 
are a student, please contact Counseling and Psychological Services
(CAPs) at (858) 534-3755. If you're a campus employee, contact the
Faculty and Staff Assistance Program at (858) 534-5523. If you're a UC More information about UCSD policies regarding coronavirus can be found by visiting  
http://coronavirus.ucsd.edu
Photo courtesy of Patrick Lazo of the UCSD Guardian Photography Department.Accessed 5/18/2020 COLA: Grade Withholding Strike Begins - UCSD Guardian
COLA: Grade Withholding Strike Begins
 March 9, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
Graduate students teaching assistants at UC San Diego joined others throughout the 
University of California system in withholding grades in support of the Cost-of-Living 
adjustment movement on Monday, March 9. The strike at UCSD was voted on by members of 
the COLA UCSD General Assembly during a walk out on Thursday, March 6.
The strike includes participating teaching assistants and academic faculty members 
withholding future grades from Monday onward. The strike is unique in the sense that it is 
not sanctioned by a union and it does not as of yet include a picket line.Accessed 5/18/2020 COLA: Grade Withholding Strike Begins - UCSD Guardian
United Auto Workers 2865, the union which represents UC graduate students, has filed
two Unfair Labor Practice charges against the UC in  response to the COLA movement on Feb. 
27 and March 2. The union will vote on whether or  not to have a statewide ULP strike in 
support of the graduate students in early April.
54 graduate students at UC Santa Cruz were fired following a grade withholding strike last  
month. As of the time of this article’s publication, those students have not been re-offered  
their jobs, and the UC Office of the President has not offered to meet any of the graduate  
students’ demands.
At UCSD, Dean of Undergraduate Education John C. Moore sent out an email to  
undergraduate academic faculty members outlining reasons that students may require  
grades that could be withheld by their striking teaching assistants.
“We are especially concerned that if graduate teaching assistants withhold grades, this might  
disproportionately affect students who may not advocate on their own behalf, including those  
who are first-generation or belong to other populations traditionally underrepresented in  
higher education,” Moore wrote in his email.
Courtesy of pay us more ucsc.Accessed 5/18/2020 COLA: Grade Withholding Strike Begins - UCSD Guardian
COLA UCSD members, however, contend that most undergraduate students do not need  
their grades in a timely manner. Those who do need their grades in order to receive 
financial aid, retake a class, or obtain an official transcript are encouraged to contact their 
teaching  assistants immediately. The COLA movement has put together a  list of best 
practices for teaching assistants in regards to grade  withholding to ensure that no 
undergraduate students suffer any consequences as a result of  the strike.
Members of COLA UCSD and the broader systemwide COLA movement have asked that 
both undergraduate students and academic faculty members stand in solidarity with the 
striking graduate students by getting involved with the movement, signing a 
Faculty Solidarity Pledge, and putting pressure on the UC administration.
The UCSD administration released an Op-Ed in the UCSD Guardian on Sunday, March 9 
expressing support for graduate student teaching assistants at large, but not explicitly 
supporting the COLA movement.
Accessed 5/18/2020 COLA: Grade Withholding Strike Begins - UCSD Guardian
Several departments, including the UCSD Guardian Editorial Board,  have released  
statements in support of the protesting graduate student teaching assistants.
The UCSD Communication Department released a statement  that the department will 
not retaliate against any graduate student workers who participate in COLA related 
demonstrations or activities.
The UCSD Visual Arts Department also released a statement  in support of the movement. 
The department condemned the firings of the 54 graduate students at UCSC, and stated 
that they will “actively resist attempts to eliminate or restrict future teaching 
appointments for graduate student workers participating in” COLA related activities.
COLA UCSD will hold a town hall to discuss the COLA movement and upcoming actions 
later tonight at 5pm in the Price Center Forum.
Photo by Joshua Ben-Escher for the UCSD Guardian.
This article is a part of a broader series on the COLA movement. To read our Editorial 
Board’s statement, click here. Read more of our coverage on the COLA movement below.Accessed: 5/18/2020 Editorial Board Statement on COLA - UCSD Guardian
Editorial Board Statement on COLA
 March 9, 2020  Guardian Staff
At the UCSD Guardian, our editorial board believes that proper compensation is a necessity  
for the graduate students whose work is invaluable to the daily function of this university.  
These graduate students are fundamental to the operation of this world-class academic and  
research institution. Graduate students at UC San Diego and across the UC system need and  
deserve the ability to sustain themselves, something which our current system does not 
enable. We stand in support of a Cost-of-Living Adjustment and support our graduate 
students in their upcoming demonstrations.
More information can be found at ucsdcola.netAccessed: 5/18/2020 Editorial Board Statement on COLA - UCSD Guardian
Signed, 
The UCSD Guardian Editorial Board
Daisy Scott, Editor in Chief
Ranjani Shankar, Managing Editor
Jacob Sutherland, News Editor
Geena Younger, Opinion Editor
Photo taken by Joshua Ben-Escher for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus
 March 10, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how to 
prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
Following the announcement that UC San Diego’s Spring Quarter classes would be held online 
due to the global Coronavirus outbreak, many tritons were left wondering what they could do, if 
anything, to prevent the spread of the virus and to protect themselves.
We asked students to respond to the question: “Have you changed anything about your daily 
campus routine in response to the coronavirus? If yes, what have you changed, and if no, why 
not?” Below are their responses.Accessed: 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
Manyi Leung, Eleanor Roosevelt College Junior
I try to touch my face less and wash my hands for longer. I think about buying non  
perishables more often in case of a lockdown. I carry hand sanitizer and clean my hands after  
shaking hands with others. I also feel like I have to hold in my cough because I’m asian and I  
feel like people will scoot away from me.
Geena Roberts, Sixth College Senior
I put on hand sanitizer more, I clean desk spaces before putting my stuff down, sanitize my  
phone more often, and no longer hug friends.
Luis Alba, John Muir College Junior
LUCAS !
@TransLvcas
nice to know UCSD can make classes online for the virus but can't  
for ppl with disabilities and other needed accommodations
700 11:31 PM - Mar 9, 2020
126 people are talking about this
Working for a community center, we see many students, faculty, and UCSD guests entering  
and holding space. In response to the coronavirus and to make sure our community is safe  
and aware, we have provided pamphlets with a quick debrief of the coronavirus with proper  
health tips. We have also increased the sanitation of usable spaces and posted signs  
reminding the community on healthy tips.
Marco Siu, Junior
Nothing has changed. The virus feeds off hysteria when it is incredibly preventable and  
treatable.Accessed: 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
Pankhuri Kohli, Thurgood Marshall College Junior
I wash my hands more and I wash them for 20 seconds. Other than that I haven’t done much 
because I’m not sure how to find out actual information about the virus/precautions without  
getting caught up in the fear mongering going on.
Natalie Tran, Eleanor Roosevelt College Junior
I myself have not changed anything about my routine, but my routine has changed because 
of other people’s actions in response to the coronavirus (i.e. the decision to cancel class). I 
have not changed my routine because the virus does not seem to be an immediate threat to 
me.
yaquesita
@jaackiee_cee
Chancellor Khosla just unleashed chaos at ucsd with that email and  
said goodnight
1,434 8:03 PM - Mar 9, 2020 · San Diego, CA
494 people are talking about thisAccessed: 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
Brianna Lucia Lehane, Eleanor Roosevelt College Senior
I sing the chorus to Africa by Toto twice when I wash my hands now.
Kevin Chen, Thurgood Marshall College Senior
I’ve considered alternatives to Geisel, avoid taking the trolley to school, washing hands 
after public transportation use (going to school, previously only did this coming home), 
stayed at home when possible or left for home if earlier is possible.
Daniel Gomez, Sixth College Sophomore
No. My immune system is too powerful. Also, the flu is deadlier.
CHANCELLOR KHOSLA: “SPRING QUARTER WILL BE ENTIRELY ONLINE 
DUE TO CORONA
VIRUS”
*ME AFTER FINALS NEXT WEEK* #UCSD
PIC.TWITTER.COM/CBDDMGYQYF
— CJ (@_CHAUNJOHN) MARCH 10, 2020
Alex Rickard, Earl Warren College Senior
My class is scheduled to meet via Zoom rather than in person. This has disrupted our project  
group due to us planning to meet in class so we have to come up with an alternate plan.
Beth Kushner, Roger Revelle College Senior
I wash my hands for 20 seconds. I use hand sanitizer upon entering and leaving the library. I 
try not to stand in groups of people or sit close to them in Geisel. Also trying not to touch  
surfaces. It’s going really well lol. I know that young, healthy individuals are not in muchAccessed: 5/18/2020 COVID-19: UCSD Students React to the Coronavirus - UCSD Guardian
danger; but I’m sure that there are many immunocompromised students/faculty at UCSD  
that we need to think of too. We all must do our part. It is a privilege to not be worried about  
COVID-19.
Photo by Brendan Wilson for the UCSD Guardian.Accessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: Patient Tests Positive for COVID-19 in La Jolla - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: Patient Tests Positive for COVID-19 in La Jolla
 March 10, 2020 Andrew Ha
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how  
to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
On March 10, a patient at Scripps Green Hospital in La Jolla tested positive for COVID-19.  
The patient is now being treated in a specialized isolation room at Scripps Hospital.  
Physicians and county health officials now await test results from the CDC to confirm that  
the patient has the COVID-19 virus.
Moreover, Scripps is taking precautionary measures to mitigate the virus’s spread by putting 
all hospital staff that interacted with the patient into home quarantine. Working with the San 
Diego County Public Health Department, the hospital is also looking to identify anyone else 
outside of hospital staff who may have been in contact with the patient.Accessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: Patient Tests Positive for COVID-19 in La Jolla - UCSD Guardian
This case is ongoing and the UCSD Guardian will provide more information as it arises. If  you 
or somebody you know is showing possible symptoms of COVID-19, please contact UCSD  
Student Health Services or your local health provider.
Photo courtesy of Scripps Green Hospital.
Accessed 5/21/2020 COVID-19: Students Petition for Lowered Spring Fees in Response to Online Course Transition -UCSD Guardian 
COVID-19: Students Petition for Lowered Spring Fees in 
Response to Online Course Transition 
March 12, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on how to 
prevent the spread of the virus, click here. 
Students at UC San Diego created a petition  to lower the Spring Quarter student fees the day after 
the UCSD administration announced that spring classes would be offered almost exclusively 
online in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. At the time of this article's publication, the petition 
had over 11,500 signatures. 
The petition, which was started by Jessica Liang, a Sixth College senior, argues that the university 
should lower certain student fees that amount to $4,817.22 for in-state students and $14,735.22 
for out of state students. The fees include tuition, transportation, student activities, and events.
"Since [classes] in spring 2020 would all be online, I found a lot ofUCSD students complained 
about that," Liang said in an interview with the UCSD Guardian. "First, they think it is not worth
Accessed 5/21/2020 COVID-19: Students Petition for Lowered Spring Fees in Response to Online Course Transition -UCSD Guardian 
[it] to pay such high tuition for online classes. Second, many of our students, similar to me, 
want to ask for recommendation letters from professors. It becomes hard to do now." 
Liang explained that the decision to put out the petition was easy to make, although she was 
hesitant at first because she is not a native English speaker. 
"I [ was] a little worried about my grammar when I wrote the petition," Liang said. "But I think 
the numbers can tell the story. So I just put out what  is on my student bill. And I posted the 
petition to some student groups on FB. After that, the number of signatures increased rapidly." 
Liang said that while the university has not reached out to her about the petition, she hopes 
that the administration will reduce fees and take extra precautions to further limit any exposure 
for students and faculty to COVID-19, while also taking a chance to expand upon the 
university's future online course offerings. 
"From the other perspective, it may be a chance for UCSD to innovate," Liang said. "There are a 
lot of universities [that] provide online classes already.  Maybe we could learn from them. It 
could also enhance educational equality." 
Nicolette Olivia Le, an Earl Warren College junior, sent an email to the university arguing that 
fees all non-tuition and non-coursework related fees, which amount to $999.98, should be 
either reduced or refunded entirely to the student body. Her email, which was published to 
Twitter, has garnered over 11,400 likes and 2,800 retweets.
"I thought it was unfair and I mentioned it to a few friends over text and they agreed with what 
I was saying, so I put together the email and asked them to send something in too," Le said in 
an interview with the Guardian. "The decision to post it on Twitter wasn't anything I thought 
about seriously. I tweet a lot and my tweets regularly get like 5 likes, so I definitely wasn't 
expecting anything like this to happen. " 
MY EMAIL TO UCSD ABOUT  OUR TUITION SITUATION FOR SPRING QUARTER. I'LL UPDATE IF I GET A 
RESPONSE. 
IN THE MEANWHILE, EMAIL, TELL YOUR PARENTS TO EMAIL, AND BE VOCAL ABOUT THIS.  WE ARE 
ENTITLED TO ANSWERS. 
EOC@UCSD.EDU
 PIC.TWITTER.COM/MDE5INCNCX (HTTPS://T.CO/MDE5INCNCX) 
-NIC (@NYKKOLETT) MARCH 10, 2020Le said that she has not received a response from the university. Likewise, Le's email was not 
created in conjunction with Liang's petition. However, Le pinned the petition to her tweet after 
her post began to gain traction. 
While the university has made no official statements as to whether or not any student fees will 
be reduced or refunded, UCSD Student Financial Solutions sent out an email to the student 
body encouraging students to sign up for direct deposit in the event that student account 
refunds will be dispersed on Wednesday, March 11. However, a university spokesperson told 
the Guardian that the timing of the email was purely coincidental. 
"This message was intended for students that may receive financial aid refunds or stipend 
payments or have an overpayment on their account," the spokesperson said. "This is part of a 
direct deposit campaign so that students don't have to wait for a paper check to arrive in the 
mail." 
The university spokesperson also stated that while no decisions on a student fee refund or 
reduction have been made, clarity on the situation will likely come in the coming weeks, as 
these types of decisions are generally made on a systemwide level. 
As of the time of this article's publication, no student fee refunds or reductions have been 
announced, and the university has not publicly responded to the petition. 
Photo by McKenna Johnson for the UCSD Guardian. Accessed 5/21/2020  COVID-19: Students Petition for Lowered Spring Fees in Response to Online Course Transition -UCSD Guardian The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD Guardian
The three potential outcomes of Sun Gestival 2020, 
explained
 March 12, 2020 Nancy Xu
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, a previous Senior AVP of ASCE looks into the three different 
potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, and the implications of each situation.
On Monday night, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla and Executive Vice Chancellor Elizabeth 
Simmons sent out a campus notice  to all academics, staff, and students. The notice, a 
campuswide update on coronavirus,  announced the university’s transition to remote, online 
classrooms for the duration of Spring Quarter, presented health and travel guidance, and 
suggested guidelines for events hosted on campus.
The COVID-19 outbreak has forced cancellations or postponements  of numerous large-scale 
summits, shows, and festivals  sending the events industry plummeting. Losses from tech 
industry conferences alone amount to over $1 billion . Among the cancelled or rescheduled Accessed: 5/21/2020
events are South by Southwest, t he Electronic Entertainment Expo, and most notably, 
Coachella. On Wednesday night, the NBA announced an  indefinite suspension of its  
season; this morning, both the NHL and MLS released decisions to pause their respective 
seasons.
Within the UC San Diego campus, Khosla and Simmons stated in their campus notice that 
they “strongly recommend […] cancellation or  postponement of events or meetings that 
are expected to have more than 100 people” through May 10, 2020.
A.S. Concerts and Events is the student organization that plans Sun God Festival and 
various other campus events. Their most recent event, a Bear Garden that gathered over 
1,000 students in Revelle Plaza, continued as scheduled last Friday, March 6. However, 
the organization’s next upcoming event, a concert at the 600-capacity Price Center 
Ballroom East featuring electronic artist AYOKAY, has been cancelled as of Wednesday, 
March 11. 
The following statement was released on their social media: “Through the guidance of the 
UC San Diego Campus protocols and the Center for Disease Control (CDC) 
recommendations, AS Concerts and Events (ASCE) has canceled the AYOKAY Concert on 
Friday, March 13th, in the Price Center East Ballroom.”
The Chancellor’s recommendation, coupled with both on-campus and off-campus show 
cancellations, prompted one question to immediately infiltrate student conversations and 
memes: 
At the time of this article, ASCE student staff and full-time advisors could not go on 
record to discuss the festival’s future plans with the UCSD Guardian, as they note the 
situation is quickly changing and are actively working to communicate across multiple 
channels. 
Following Wednesday night’s A.S. Senate meeting, Vice President of Campus Affairs 
Melina Reynoso sent an email to the A.S. Council listserv noting “that all policies are in 
flux and [they] will have more information […] as the situation progresses.”
A.S. Council and administration are working together to put out clear, cohesive 
statements on on-campus events, and will release these clarifications shortly.Accessed: 5/21/2020 The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD GuardianAccessed: 5/21/2020 The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD Guardian
In order to provide clarity and understanding with the student body between now and then, 
this article breaks down the three potential  outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020: (1) the festival 
continues as scheduled, (2) the festival is postponed to occur after the university’s May 10  
recommendation, and (3) the festival is cancelled completely. After assessing all three possible 
scenarios, complete cancellation is the most  likely outcome, but that brings about its own set of 
questions — here’s why.
If the 2020 Sun God Festival were to continue as scheduled, the event would happen against 
the recommendation of Chancellor Khosla and  Executive Vice Chancellor Simmons. The 
festival is currently scheduled to occur on April 25, 2020, which will be around four months 
after the first recognized cases of coronavirus were reported. 
While predictions surrounding the future of the COVID-19 pandemic are varied, the general 
consensus amongst experts is that containment is  no longer possible. Marc Lipsitch, a Harvard 
epidemiologist, estimates that “20 to 60 percent of adults will catch the [coronavirus]” within a 
year. 
Furthermore, according to Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, the earliest a coronavirus  vaccine could be implemented on a large-scale  is 
“in a year to a year and a half, no matter how fast you go.” 
A vaccine for the virus has an extremely minute chance of being developed by the end of April 
and a much smaller chance of satisfying  regulatory review for widespread application. Thus, if 
the festival were to be held at  its original date, it would very likely be held during a time when 
the virus is still prevalent.
The effectiveness of event cancellations  as preventative measures cannot be underscored, as 
cancellations can limit future epicenters of outbreak similar to that of the infamous  Biogen 
leadership conference; earlier this week, the Boston Globe reported that “70 of 92 coronavirus 
infections in the state” of Massachusetts were linked to that single meeting. Sun God would 
then go against measures for containment, and another question would arise in context: Who 
would still want to attend? he festival  is 
postponed to occur after 
the university’s May 10, 2020 recommendationAccessed: 5/21/2020 The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD Guardian
If the 2020 Sun God Festival were to be rescheduled to a date that occurs after May 10, or after 
Week 7 of Spring Quarter, further  complications would emerge from the nature of the festival 
itself.
It is also important to note that May 10 is a tentative deadline for the recommended on-campus 
event restriction and that there is no  guaranteed outcome or end date to the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
But even without consideration of what the outbreak will look like by then, there are major 
roadblocks to a post-week-seven festival: How  would the ASCE team choose a new date? Sun 
God has a complicated history, one that has resulted in the decimation  of the 12-hour, campus-
wide event it was known for  before the 2008 transition to RIMAC Field.
Prior to the 2007-2008 academic year, the festival occurred on the Friday of Week 7, from 12 
p.m. to 12 a.m. Because it was held so close to the  end of the academic year, the administration
struggled to invoke proper disciplinary measures on graduating seniors who violated
community guidelines during the festival.
With the self-imposed May 10 date, any rescheduling of the festival will be a hard-fought battle 
with the health and safety precedents set by  both the administration and the ASCE team over 
the past five years — even barring concern surrounding the coronavirus. It would be hard to  see 
the Sun God Task Force, a group of staff and  students striving to create an enjoyable yet safe 
experience, approve of a late-spring Sun God Festival, regardless of the conditions of 
COVID-19. 
Considering the university’s suggestions with large-scale events, as well as the precedence of 
event suspensions set by entertainment giants  like Goldenvoice and the NBA, a full-on 
cancellation of the festival is the most likely scenario.
But a cancellation of an on-campus, student festival has its own unique questions. What will 
happen to the $780,000 festival budge t, paid for in advance by student fees? Since its 
inception in 1983, Sun God  Festival has never missed an iteration, making a cancellation 
uncharted territory for the university.
A cancellation also does not necessarily mean that ASCE will retain its entire Sun God budget. 
There is a high chance that the organization is  already contracting with a majority of the 
festival’s talent, meaning that agencies could still charge for acts that have already been booked. Accessed: 5/21/2020 The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD Guardian
This is an example of a previous contract between the university and a performer. In this 
case, the artist’s team has edited the contract so that the university will still be responsible 
for paying the artist the full fee if the university breaches the agreement, i.e. cancels the 
event.
In 2014, the Sun God Task Force abolished guest tickets  for alumni and non-affiliates, 
effectively reducing the number of hospitalizations from the festival. It is not likely that this 
year’s graduating  seniors will be given a chance to return for the 2021 Sun God Festival. Given 
current conditions, it is also not likely that ASCE will be able to host any sort of replacement 
event before the end of the academic year.
Will excess student-activity fees be refunded to this year’s paying students? Or will they 
simply be put into Associated Students reserves and pass on to next year’s executive budget? 
A refund of student fees is also unprecedented.
UCSD undergraduates have been circling around a Change.org petition to lower spring 
quarter student fees, which has already garnered over 10,000 signatures; but the Sun God 
Though the university’s performance agreements indicate that “neither the artist nor the 
university shall be liable for failure to appear, present, or perform if such a failure is caused by 
[…] any cause beyond the control of the Artist or the University,” many talent agencies ultimately 
edit the contract to reflect full payment to the artist if the university breaches the agreement, 
which in this case, is canceling the event. It is unclear whether or not the coronavirus outbreak, 
coupled with only a strong recommendation from the chancellor, will be enough to justify that 
the cancellation is due to “a cause beyond the control of […] the University.”Accessed: 5/21/2020 The three potential outcomes of Sun God Festival 2020, explained - UCSD Guardian
Festival is funded by activity fees across all quarters except summer — it is why Fall Quarter and 
Winter Quarter graduates are still able to attend the event. In the face of cancellation, how will 
the student government and university administration provide fair compensation to the student 
body?
At this time, there is no definitive answer from either the student government or administration. 
However, given how quickly the effects of  COVID-19 are moving on the UCSD campus, there are 
many huge obstacles that need to be cleared before any announcement takes place. The  best we 
can do is trust our student leaders and give them the time they need to make clear decisions.
An essential point to keep in mind is that whether the Sun God Festival is kept, postponed, or 
cancelled, there will always be students working  diligently behind the scenes to plan these events 
in the first place. The fact that student leaders are having to navigate and make extremely  
difficult decisions in this state of emergency is commendable in and of itself.
Spencer Kennebeck, one of ASCE’s Special Events coordinators that spearheaded the now-
cancelled AYOKAY concert, stated, “It was really  disappointing putting in hours of work, and 
then all of a sudden, thinking that nothing is going to come through.” 
Similar sentiments were shared from Xinchen Fu, ASCE’s Bear Garden coordinator, who told the 
Guardian, “There’s so much unknown […]  we’re still kind of shocked, and not sure what to do 
anymore.”
Sun God Festival, along with other student activities and celebrations, plays a large part in 
making college the unique and memorable  experience it is often quoted to be. Disappointment 
over various cancellations and postponements is justified, especially for graduating seniors  
wishing to make the most of their final quarter at university. But this disappointment is shared — 
amongst the student body, amongst the  administration, and especially amongst the ASCE 
student planners that might not see their work come to life. 
Image courtesy of ASCE.Accessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: HDH To Allow Housing Contract Cancelations and Dining Dollar Refunds - UCSD Guardian
COVID-19: HDH To Allow Housing Contract Cancelations 
and Dining Dollar Refunds
 March 13, 2020 Jacob Sutherland
This article is a part of our news series on the COVID-19 pandemic. For information on 
how to prevent the spread of the virus, click here.
UC San Diego updated their COVID-19 website to state that students living on campus would 
be able to cancel their housing contracts and that dining dollars would be refunded in 
response to the coronavirus pandemic on Friday, March 19. The UCSD administration 
confirmed in an email that Spring quarter courses will be delivered remotely for the entirety 
of the quarter.
According to the website, “students can choose to cancel their housing contract for SpringAccessed: 5/21/2020 COVID-19: HDH T
o Allow Housing Contract Cancelations and Dining Dollar Refunds - UCSD Guardian
Quarter.” In order to do so, “students must log in to the Housing Portal and submit their 
cancellation request by March 29, 2020.”
The website goes on to say that housing refunds will be prorated based on students’ move-out  
dates and when their housing keys are turned in. Likewise, graduate and family housing  
residents are eligible “to cancel their rental agreements with less than 30 days’ notice, with  no 
penalty, until March 29, 2020.” Choosing to cancel a rental agreement under these  
circumstances will not affect resident’s two-year housing guarantee, although they may not  be 
assigned to the same residence they are currently living in.
Housing, Dining, and Hospitality will also refund Dining Dollars to students who move out.  
HDH dining facilities will remain open next quarter.
The UCSD Guardian reached out to HDH for comment, and this article will be updated as  
soon as an HDH representative responds.
Students with questions are encouraged to visit the website  for more information, as well as 
to contact HDH via housinginfo@ucsd.edu with any further questions. Likewise, students are  
encouraged to tune-in for the university’s COVID-19 webinar, which will begin promptly at  
5pm on Friday, March 13.
This is a developing story, and the UCSD Guardian will continue to update this article as  
more information becomes available.
Photo by Mariyah Shad for the UCSD Guardian.
This article was updated at 5:08 p.m. to reflect that Associated Students announced that  
Spring quarter classes would be online for the entirety of the quarter.
This article was updated at 5:31 p.m. to reflect that the UCSD administration has confirmed 
that Spring quarter classes would be delivered remotely for the entirety of the quarter.